Undeceived so much to my satisfaction in this particular, I gazed in a frenzy of delight on
the irresistible charms of his sister, who no sooner distinguished me in the crowd, than her
evident confusion afforded a happy omen to my flame. At sight of me she started, the roses
instantly vanished from her polished cheeks, and returned in a moment with a double glow, that
overspread her lovely neck, while her enchanting bosom heaved with strong emotion. I hailed
these favourable symptoms, and, lying in wait for her looks, did homage with my eyes. She seemed
to approve my declaration, by the complacency of her aspect; and I was so transported with
the discovery, that more than once I was on the point of making up to her, to disclose the
throbbings of my heart in person, had not that profound veneration, which her presence always
inspired, restrained the unseasonable impulse. All my powers being engrossed in this manner,
it may easily be imagined how ill I entertained Miss Snapper on whom I could not now turn my
eyes, without making comparisons very little to her advantage. It was not even in my power
to return distinct answers to the questions she asked from time to time, so that she could
not help observing my absence of mind; and having a turn for observation, watched my glances,
and, tracing them to the divine object, discovered the cause of my disorder. That she might,
however, be convinced of the truth of her conjecture, she began to interrogate me with regard
to Narcissa, and, notwithstanding all my endeavours to disguise my sentiments, perceived my
attachment by my confusion: upon which, she assumed a stateliness of behaviour, and sat silent
during the remaining part of the entertainment. At any other time, her suspicion would have
alarmed me: but now I was elevated by my passion above every other consideration. The mistress
of my soul having retired with her brother, I discovered so much uneasiness at my situation,
that Miss Snapper proposed to go home; and, while I conducted her to a chair, told me she had
too great a regard for me to keep me any longer in torment. I feigned ignorance of her meaning,
and having seen her safely at her lodgings, took my leave, and went home in an ecstasy, where
I disclosed everything that had happened to my confidant and humble servant, Strap, who did
not relish the accident so well as I expected; and observed, that a bird in the hand is worth
two in the bush. "But, however," said he, "you know best--you know best." Next day, as, I went
to the Pump Room, in hopes of seeing or hearing some tidings of my fair enslaver, I was met
by a gentlewoman, who, having looked hard at me, cried, "O Christ, Mr. Random!" Surprised at
this exclamation, I examined the countenance of the person who spoke, and immediately recognised
my old sweetheart and fellow sufferer, Miss Williams.

I was mightily pleased to find this unfortunate woman under such a decent appearance, professed
my joy at seeing her so well, and desired to know where I should have the pleasure of her conversation.
She was as heartily rejoiced at the apparent easiness of my fortune, and gave me to know that
she, as yet, had no habitation that she could properly call her own; but would wait on me at
any place I should please to appoint. Understanding that she was unengaged for the present,
I showed her the way to my lodgings, where, after a very affectionate salutation, she informed
me of her being very happy in the service of a young lady to whom she was recommended by a
former mistress deceased, into whose family she had recommended herself by the honest deceit
she had concerted, while she lived with me in the garret at London. She then expressed a vehement
desire to be acquainted with the vicissitudes of my life since we parted, and excused her curiosity
on account of the concern she had for my interest. I forthwith gratified her request, and,
when I described my situation in Sussex, perceived her to attend to my story with particular
eagerness. She interrupted me, when I had finished that period, with, "Good God! is it possible?"
and then begged I would be so good as to continue my relation; which I did as briefly as I
could, burning with impatience to know the cause of her surprise, about which I had already
formed a very interesting conjecture.

When I had brought my adventures down to the present day, who seemed very much affected with
the different circumstances of my fortune; and saying, with a smile, she believed my distresses
were now at a period, proceeded to inform me that the lady whom she served was no other than
the charming Narcissa, who had honoured her with her confidence for some time; in consequence
of which trust, she had often repeated the story of John Brown with great admiration and regard;
that she loved to dwell upon the particulars of his character, and did not scruple to own a
tender approbation of his flame. I became delirious at this piece of intelligence, strained
Miss Williams in my embrace, called her the angel of my happiness, and acted such extravagances,
that she might have been convinced of my sincerity, had she not been satisfied of my honour
before. As soon as was in condition to yield attention, she described the present situation
of her mistress, who had no sooner reached her lodgings the night before, than she closeted
her, and in a rapture of joy gave her to know that she had seen me at the ball, where I appeared
in the character which she always thought my due, with such advantage of transformation that,
unless my image had been engraven on her heart, it would have been impossible to know me for
the person who had worn her aunt's livery; that by the language of my eyes, she was assured
of the continuance of my passion for her, and consequently of my being unengaged to any other;
and that, though she did not doubt I would speedily fall upon some method of being introduced,
she was so impatient to hear of me, that she (Miss Williams) had been sent abroad this very
morning, on purpose to learn the name and character I at present bore. My bosom had been hitherto
a stranger to such a flood of joy as now rushed upon it; my faculties were overborne by the
tide; it was some time before I could open my mouth, and much longer ere I could utter a coherent
sentence. At length, I fervently requested her to lead me immediately to the object of my adoration;
but she resisted my importunity, and explained the danger of such premature conduct. "How favourable
soever," said she, "my lady's inclination towards you may be, you may depend upon it, she will
not commit the smallest trespass on decorum, either in disclosing her own, or in receiving
a declaration of your passion: and, although the great veneration I have for you has prompted
me to reveal what she communicated to me in confidence, I know so well the severity of her
sentiments with respect to the punctilios of her sex that, if she should learn the least surmise
of it, she would not only dismiss me as a wretch unworthy of her benevolence, but also for
ever shun the efforts of your love." I assented to the justness of her remonstrance, and desired
she would assist me with her advice and direction: upon which it was concerted between us,
that for the present I should be contented with her telling Narcissa that, in the course of
her inquiries, she could only learn my name: and that, if, in a day or two, I could fall upon
no other method of being introduced to her mistress, she would deliver a letter from me, on
pretence of consulting her happiness: and say that I met her in the streets, and bribed her
to this piece of service. Matters being thus adjusted, I kept my old acquaintance to breakfast,
and learned from her conversation, that my rival Sir Timothy had drunk himself into an apoplexy,
of which he died five months ago; that the savage was still unmarried and that his aunt had
been seized with a whim which he little expected, and chosen the schoolmaster of the parish
for her lord and husband: but matrimony not agreeing with her constitution she had been hectic
and dropsical a good while, and was now at Bath, in order to drink the waters for the recovery
of her health; that her niece had accompanied her thither at her request, and attended her
with the same affection as before, notwithstanding the mistake she had committed: and that
the nephew, who had been exasperated at the loss of her fortune, did not give his attendance
out of good will, but purely to have an eye on his sister, lest she should likewise throw herself
away without his consent or approbation. Having enjoyed ourselves in this manner, and made
an assignation to meet next day at a certain place, Miss Williams took her leave; and Strap's
looks being very inquisitive about the nature of the communication subsisting between us, I
made him acquainted with the whole affair, to his great astonishment and satisfaction.

CHAPTER LVI

I become acquainted with Narcissa's brother, who invites me to his House, where I am introduced
to that adorable Creature--after dinner, the Squire retires to take his nap--Freeman, guessing
the Situation of my Thought, withdraws likewise, on pretence of Business--I declare my passion
for Narcissa--am well-received--charmed with her Conversation--the Squire detains us to Supper--I
elude his design by a Stratagem, and get home sober

In the afternoon, I drank tea at the house of Mr. Freeman, to whom I had been recommended by
Banter; where I had not sat five minutes, till the foxhunter came in, and by his familiar behaviour
appeared to be intimate with my friend. I was, at first, under some concern, lest he should
recollect my features; but when I found myself introduced to him as a gentleman from London,
without being discovered, I blessed the opportunity that brought me into his company; hoping
that, in the course of my acquaintance, he would invite me to his house; nor were my hopes
frustrated, for, as we spent the evening together, he grew extremely fond of my conversation,
asked a great many childish questions about France and foreign parts; and seemed so highly
entertained with my answers, that in his cups he shook me often by the hand, pronounced me
an honest fellow, and in fine desired our company at dinner next day, at his civil house. My
imagination was so much employed in anticipating the happiness I was to enjoy next day, that
I slept very little that night; but, rising early in the morning, went to the place appointed,
where I met my she-friend, and imparted to her my success with the squire. She was very much
pleased at the occasion, "which," she said, "could not fail of being agreeable to Narcissa,
who, in spite of her passion for me, had mentioned some scruples relating to my true situation
and character, which the delicacy of her sentiments suggested, and which she believed I would
find it necessary to remove, though she did not know how." I was a good deal startled at this
insinuation, because I foresaw the difficulty I should find in barely doing myself justice:
for, although it never was my intention to impose myself upon any woman, much less on Narcissa,
I laid claim to the character of a gentleman by birth, education, and behaviour; and yet (so
unlucky had the circumstances of my life fallen out) I should find it a very hard matter to
make good my pretensions even to these, especially to the last, which was the most essential.
Miss Williams was as sensible as I of this my disadvantage, but comforted me with observing
that, when once a woman has bestowed her affections on a man, she cannot help judging of him
in all respects with a partiality easily influenced in his favour: she remarked that, although
some situations of my life had been low, yet none of them had been infamous; that my indigence
had been the crime not of me, but of fortune; and that the miseries I had undergone, by improving
the faculties both of mind and body, qualified me the more for any dignified station; and would
of consequence recommend me to the good graces of any sensible woman: she therefore advised
me to be always open and unreserved to the inquiries of my mistress, without unnecessarily
betraying the meanest occurrences of my fate; and trust to the strength of her love and reflection
for the rest.

The sentiments of this sensible young woman on this, as well as on almost every other subject,
perfectly agreed with mine. I thanked her for the care she took of my interests, and, promising
to behave myself according to her directions we parted, after she had assured me that I depend
upon her best offices with her mistress, and that she would from time to time communicate to
me such intelligence as she could procure, relating to my flame. Having dressed myself to the
best advantage, I waited for the time of dinner with the most fearful impatience; and, as the
hour drew near, my heart beat with such increased velocity, and my spirits contracted such
disorder, that I began to suspect my resolution, and even to wish myself disengaged. At last
Mr. Freeman called at my lodgings in his way, and I accompanied him to the house where all
my happiness was deposited. We were very kindly received by the squire, who sat smoking his
pipe in a parlour, and asked if we chose to drink any thing before dinner: though I never had
more occasion for a cordial, I was ashamed to accept his offer, which was also refused, by
my friend. We sat down, however, entered into conversation, which lasted half-an hour, so that
I had time to recollect myself; and (so capricious were my thoughts) even to hope that Narcissa
would not appear--when, all of a sudden, a servant coming in, gave us notice that dinner was
upon the table, and my perturbation returned with such violence that I could scarcely conceal
it from the company, as I ascended the staircase. When I entered the dining-room, the first
object that saluted my ravished eyes was the divine Narcissa, blushing like Aurora, adorned
with all the graces that meekness, innocence, and beauty can diffuse! I was seized with a giddiness,
my knees tottered and I scarce had strength enough to perform the ceremony of salutation, when
her brother, slapping me on the shoulder, cried, "Measure Randan, that there is my sister."
I approached her with eagerness and fear; but in the moment of our embrace, my soul was agonized
with rapture! It was a lucky circumstance for us both, that my entertainer was not endued with
an uncommon stock of penetration; for our mutual confusion was so manifest that Mr. Freeman
perceived it, and as we went home together, congratulated me on my good fortune. But so far
was Bruin from entertaining the least suspicion, that he encouraged me to begin a conversation
with my mistress in a language unknown to him, by telling her, that he had a gentleman who
could jabber with her in French and other foreign lingoes as fast as she pleased; then, turning
to me, said, "Odds bobs! I wish you would hold discourse with her in your French or Italian,
and tell me if she understands it as well as she would be thought to do. There's her aunt and
she will chatter together whole days in it, and I can't have a mouthful of English for love
or money." I consulted the look of my amiable mistress and found her averse to his proposal,
which indeed she declined with a sweetness of denial peculiar to herself, as a piece of disrespect
to that part of the company which did not understand the language in question. As I had the
happiness of sitting opposite to her, I feasted my eyes much more than my palate which she
tempted in vain with the most delicious bits carved by her fair hand, and recommended by her
persuasive tongue; but all my other appetites were swallowed up in immensity of my love, which
I fed by gazing incessantly on the delightful object. Dinner was scarcely ended, when the squire
became very drowsy, and after several dreadful yawns, got up, stretched himself, took two or
three turns across the room, begged we would allow him to take a short nap, and, having laid
a strong injunction on his sister to detain us till his return, went to his repose without
further ceremony. He had not been gone many minutes, when Freeman, guessing the situation of
my heart, and thinking he could not do me a greater favour than to leave me alone with Narcissa,
pretended to recollect himself all of a sudden, and, starting up, begged the lady pardon for
half-an-hour, for he had unluckily remembered an engagement of some consequence, that he must
perform at that instant: so saying, he took his leave, promising to come back time enough for
tea, leaving my mistress and me in great confusion.

Now that I enjoyed an opportunity of disclosing the paintings of my soul, I had not the power
to use it. I studied many pathetic declarations, but, when I attempted to give them utterance,
my tongue denied its office and she sat silent with a downcast look full of anxious alarm,
her bosom heaving with expectation of some great event. At length I endeavoured to put an end
to this solemn pause, and began with, "It is very surprising, madam, madam"--here the sound
dying away, I made a full stop; while Narcissa, starting, blushed, and, with a timid accent
answered, "Sir?" Confounded at this note of interrogation, I pronounced with the most sheepish
bashfulness, "Madam!" To which she replied, "I beg pardon--I thought you had spoken to me."
Another pause ensued--I made another effort, and, though my voice faltered very much at the
beginning, made shift to express myself in this manner: "I say, madam, it is very surprising
that love should act so inconsistently with itself, as to deprive its votaries of the use of
their faculties, when they have most need of them. Since the happy occasion of being alone
with you presented itself, I have made many unsuccessful attempts to declare a passion for
the loveliest of her sex--a passion which took possession of my soul, while my cruel fate compelled
me to wear a servile disguise so unsuitable to my birth, sentiments, and let me add, my deserts;
yet favourable in one respect, as it furnished me with opportunities of seeing and adoring
your perfections. Yes, madam, it was then your dear idea entered my bosom, where it has lived
unimpaired in the midst of numberless cares, and animated me against a thousand dangers and
calamities!"

While I spoke thus, she concealed her face with her fan, and when I ceased speaking, recovering
herself from the most beautiful confusion, told me she thought herself very much obliged by
my favourable opinion of her, and that she was very sorry to hear I had been unfortunate. Encouraged
by this gentle reply, I proceeded, owned myself sufficiently recompensed by her kind compassion
for what I had undergone, and declared the future happiness of my life depended solely upon
her. "Sir," said she, "I should be very ungrateful, if after the signal protection you once
afforded me, I should refuse to contribute towards your happiness in any reasonable condescension."
Transported at this acknowledgment I threw myself at her feet, and begged she would regard
my passion with a favourable eye. She was alarmed at my behaviour, entreated me to rise lest
her brother should discover me in that posture, and to spare her for the present upon a subject
for which she was altogether unprepared. In consequence of this remonstrance, I rose, assuring
her I would rather die than disobey her: but in the meantime begged her to consider how precious
the minutes of this opportunity were, and what restraint I put upon my inclinations, in sacrificing
them to her desire. She smiled with unspeakable sweetness, and said there would be no want
of opportunities, provided I could maintain the good opinion her brother had conceived of me,
and I, enchanted by her charms, seized her hand, which I well nigh devoured with kisses. But
she checked my boldness with a severity of countenance, and desired I would not so far forget
myself to her, as to endanger the esteem she had for me; she reminded me of our being almost
strangers to each other, and of the necessity there was for her knowing me better, before she
could take any resolution in my favour; and, in short, mingled so much good sense and complacency
in her reproof, that I became as much enamoured of her understanding as I had been before of
her beauty, and asked pardon for my presumption with the utmost reverence of conviction. She
forgave my offence with her usual affability, and sealed my pardon with a look so full of bewitching
tenderness, that, for some minutes, my senses were lost in ecstacy! I afterwards endeavoured
to regulate my behaviour according to her desire, and turn the conversation upon a more indifferent
subject; but her presence was an insurmountable obstacle to my design; while I beheld so much
excellence, I found it impossible to call my attention from the contemplation of it! I gazed
with unutterable fondness! I grew mad with admiration! "My condition is insupportable!" cried
I: "I am distracted with passion! Why are you so exquisitely fair?--why are you so enchantingly
good?--why has nature dignified you with charms so much above the standard of woman? and, wretch
that I am, how dare my unworthiness aspire to the enjoyment of such perfection!"

She was startled at my ravings, reasoned down my transport, and by her irresistible eloquence,
soothed my soul into a state of tranquil felicity; but, lest I might suffer a relapse, industriously
promoted other subjects to entertain my imagination. She chid me for having omitted to inquire
about her aunt who (she assured me), in the midst of all her absence of temper, and detachment
from common affairs, often talked of me with uncommon warmth. I professed my veneration for
the good lady, excused my omission, by imputing it to the violence of my love, which engrossed
my whole soul, and desired to know the situation of her health. Upon which, the amiable Narcissa
repeated what I had heard before of her marriage, with all the tenderness for her reputation
that the subject would admit of; told me she lived with her husband hard by, and was so much
afflicted with the dropsy, and wasted by a consumption, that she had small hopes of her recovery.
Having expressed my sorrow for her distemper, I questioned her about my good friend, Mrs. Sagely,
who, I learned to my great satisfaction, was in good health, and who had by the encomiums she
bestowed upon me after I was gone, confirmed the favourable impression my behaviour at parting
had made on Narcissa's heart. This circumstance introduced an inquiry into the conduct of Sir
Timothy Thicket, who (she informed me) had found means to incense her brother so much against
me that she found it impossible to undeceive him: but, on the contrary, suffered very much
in her own character by his scandalous insinuations; that the whole parish was alarmed, and
actually in pursuit of me; so that she had been in the utmost consternation on my account,
well knowing how little my own innocence and her testimony would have weighed with the ignorance,
prejudice, and brutality of those who must have judged me, had I been apprehended; that Sir
Timothy, having been seized with a fit of apoplexy, from which with great difficulty he was
recovered, began to be apprehensive of death, and to prepare himself accordingly for that great
event; as a step to which he sent for her brother, owned with great contrition the brutal design
he had upon her, and in consequence acquitted me of the assault, robbery, and correspondence
with her, which he had laid to my charge; after which confession he lived about a month in
a languishing condition, and was carried off by a second assault.

Every word that this dear creature spoke, riveted the chains with which she held me enslaved!
My mischievous fancy began to work, and the tempest of my passion to wake again, when the return
of Freeman destroyed the tempting opportunity, and enabled me to quell the rising tumult. A
little while after, the squire staggered into the room, rubbing his eyes, and called for his
tea, which he drank out of a small bowl, qualified with brandy; while we took it in the usual
way, Narcissa left us in order to visit her aunt; and when Freeman and I proposed to take our
leave, the foxhunter insisted on our spending the evening at his house with such obstinacy
of affection, that we were obliged to comply. For my own part, I should have been glad of the
invitation, by which, in all likelihood, I should be blessed with more of his sisters company,
had I not been afraid of risking her esteem, by entering into a debauch of drinking with him,
which, from the knowledge of his character, I foresaw would happen: but there was no remedy.
I was forced to rely upon the strength of my constitution, which I hoped would resist intoxication
longer than the squire's, and to trust to the good nature and discretion of my mistress for
the rest.

Our entertainer, resolving to begin by times, ordered the table to be furnished with liquor
and glasses immediately after tea, but we absolutely refused to set in for drinking so soon;
and prevailed upon him to pass away an hour or two at whist, in which we engaged as soon as
Narcissa returned. The savage and I happened to be partners at first, and, as my thoughts were
wholly employed in a more interesting game, I played so ill that he lost all patience, swore
bitterly, and threatened to call for wine, if they would not grant him another associate. This
desire was gratified, and Narcissa and I were of a side; he won for the same reason that made
him lose before; I was satisfied, my lovely partner did not repine, and the time slipped away
very agreeably, until we were told that supper was served in another room.

The squire was enraged to find the evening so unprofitably spent, and wreaked his vengeance
on the cards, which he tore, and committed to the flames with many execrations; threatening
to make us redeem our loss with a large glass and quick circulation; and indeed we had no sooner
supped, and my charmer withdrawn, than he began to put his threat in execution. Three bottles
of port (for he drank no other sort of wine) were placed before us, with as many water glasses,
which were immediately filled to the brim, after his example, by each out of his respective
allowance, and emptied in a trice to the best in Christendom. Though I swallowed this, and
the next, as fast as the glass could be replenished, without hesitation or show of reluctance,
I perceived that my brain would not be able to bear many bumpers of this sort, and dreading
the perseverance of a champion who began with such vigour, I determined to make up for the
deficiency of my strength by a stratagem, which I actually put in practice when the second
course of bottles was called for. The wine being strong and heady, I was already a good deal
discomposed by the dispatch we had made. Freeman's eyes began to reel, and Bruin himself was
elevated into a song, which he uttered with great vociferation. When I therefore saw the second
round brought in, I assumed a gay air, entertained him with a French catch on the subject of
drinking, which, though he did rot understand it, delighted him highly; and, telling him your
choice spirits at Paris never troubled themselves with glasses, asked if he had not a bowl
or cup in the house that would contain a whole quart of wine. "Odds niggers!" cried he, "I
have a silver candle cup that holds just the quantity, for all the world; fetch it hither,
Numps." The vessel being produced, I bade him decant his bottle into it, which he having done,
I nodded in a very deliberate manner, and said, "Pledge you." He stared at me for some time,
and crying, "What! all at one pull, Measter Randan?" I answered, "At one pull, Sir, you are
no milk-sop--we shall do you justice." "Shall you?" said he, shaking me by the hand; "odds
then, I'll see it out, an't were a mile to the bottom: here's to our better acquaintance, measter
Randan," So saying, he applied it to his lips, and emptied it in a breath. I knew the effect
of it would be almost instantaneous; therefore taking the cup, began to discharge my bottle
into it, telling him he was now qualified to drink with the Cham of Tartary. I had no sooner
pronounced these words than he took umbrage at them, and after several attempts to spit, made
shift to stutter, "A f--t for your Chams of T--Tartary! I am a f--f--freeborn Englishman, worth
th--three thousand a-year, and v--value no man, d--me." Then, dropping his jaw, and fixing
his eyes, he hiccuped aloud, and fell upon the floor as mute as n flounder. Mr. Freeman, heartily
glad at his defeat, assisted me in carrying him to bed, where we left him to the care of his
servants, and went home to our respective habitations, congratulating each other on our good
fortune.

CHAPTER LVII

Miss Williams informs me of Narcissa's Approbation of my Flame--I appease the Squire--write
to my Mistress--am blessed with an Answer--beg Leave of her Brother to dance with her at a
Ball--obtain his Consent and hers--enjoy a private Conversation with her--am perplexed with
Reflections--have the Honour of appearing her Partner at a Ball--we are complimented by a certain
Nobleman--he discovers some Symptoms of a Passion for Narcissa--I am stung with Jealousy--Narcissa,
alarmed, retires--I observe Melinda in the company--the Squire is captivated by her Beauty

I was met next morning at the usual place by Miss Williams, who gave me joy of the progress
I had made in the affection of her mistress, and blessed me with an account of that dear creature's
conversation with her, after she had retired the night before from our company. I could scarce
believe her information, when she recounted her expressions in my favour, so much more warm
and passionate were they than my most sanguine hopes had presaged; and was particularly pleased
to hear that she approved of my behaviour to her brother after she withdrew. Transported at
the news of my happiness, I presented my ring to the messenger as a testimony of my gratitude
and satisfaction; but she was above such mercenary considerations, and refused my compliment
with some resentment, saying, she was not a little mortified to see my opinion of her so low
and contemptible. I did myself a piece of justice by explaining my behaviour on this head,
and to convince her of my esteem, promised to be ruled by her directions in the prosecution
of the whole affair, which I had so much at heart, that the repose of my life depended upon
the consequence.

As I fervently wished for another interview, where I might pour out the effusion of my love
without danger of being interrupted, and perhaps reep some endearing return from the queen
of my desires, I implored her advice and assistance in promoting this event: but she gave me
to understand, that Narcissa would make no precipitate compliances of this kind, and I would
do well to cultivate her brother's acquaintance, in the course of which I should not want opportunities
of removing that reserve which my mistress thought herself obliged to maintain during the infancy
of our correspondence. In the meantime she promised to tell her lady that I had endeavoured
by presents and persuasions, to prevail upon her (Miss Williams) to deliver a letter from me,
which she had refused to charge herself with, until she should know Narcissa's sentiments of
the matter; and said, by these means she did not doubt of being able to open a literary communication
between us, which could not fail of introducing more intimate connections.

I approved of her counsel, and, our appointment being renewed for the next day, left her with
an intent of falling upon some method of being reconciled to the squire, who, I supposed, would
be offended with the trick we had put upon him. With this view I consulted Freeman, who, from
his knowledge of the foxhunter's disposition, assured me there was no other method of pacifying
him, than that of sacrificing ourselves for one night to an equal match with him in drinking.
This expedient I found myself necessitated to comply with for the interest of my passion, and
therefore determined to commit the debauch at my own lodgings, that I might run no risk of
being discovered by Narcissa, in a state of brutal degeneracy. Mr. Freeman, who was to be of
the party, went, at my desire, to the squire, in order to engage him, while I took care to
furnish myself for his reception. My invitation was accepted, my guests honoured me with their
company in the evening, when Bruin gave me to understand that he had drunk many tons of wine
in his life, but was never served such a trick as I had played upon him the night before. I
promised to atone for my trespass, and, having ordered to every man his bottle, began the contest
with a bumper to the health of Narcissa. The toasts circulated with great devotion, the liquor
began to operate, our mirth grew noisy, and, as Freeman said, I had the advantage of drinking
small French claret, the savage was effectually tamed before our senses were in the least affected,
and carried home in an apoplexy of drunkenness.

I was next morning, as usual, favoured with a visit from my kind and punctual confidante, who,
telling me she was permitted to receive my letters for her mistress, I took up the pen immediately,
and, following the first dictates of my passion, wrote as follows:

    "Dear Madam,

    "Were it possible for the powers of utterance to reveal the
    soft emotions of my soul, the fond anxiety, the glowing hopes,
    the chilling flame, that rule my breast by turns, I should need
    no other witness than this paper, to evince the purity and ardour
    of that flame your charms have kindled in my heart, But alas!
    expression wrongs my love! I am inspired with conceptions that no
    language can convey! Your beauty fills me with wonder, your
    understanding with ravishment, and your goodness with adoration!
    I am transported with desire, distracted with doubts, and
    tortured with impatience. Suffer me then, lovely arbitress of my
    fate, to approach you in person, to breathe in soft murmurs my
    passion to your ear, to offer the sacrifice of a heart overflowing
    with the most genuine and disinterested love, to gaze with ecstacy
    on the divine object of my wishes, to hear the music of her
    enchanting tongue, and to rejoice in her smiles of approbation,
    which will banish the most intolerable suspense from the bosom of

                                "Your enraptured, R-- R--."

Having finished this effusion, I committed it to the care of my faithful friend, with an injunction
to second my entreaty with all her eloquence and influence, and in the meantime went to dress,
with an intention of visiting Mrs. Snapper and Miss, whom I had utterly neglected, and indeed
almost forgotten, since my dear Narcissa had resumed the empire of my soul. The old gentlewoman
received me very kindly, and Miss affected a frankness and gaiety which, however, I could easily
perceive was forced and dissembled: among other things, she pretended to joke me upon my passion
for Narcissa, which she averred was no secret, and asked if I intended to dance with her at
the next assembly. I was a good deal concerned to find myself become the town talk on this
subject, lest the squire, having notice of my inclinations, should disapprove of them, and,
by breaking off all correspondence with me, deprive me of the opportunities I now enjoyed.
But I resolved to use the interest I had with him, while it lasted; and that very night, meeting
him occasionally, asked his permission to solicit her company at the ball, which he very readily
granted, to my inexpressible satisfaction.

Having been kept awake the greatest part of the night by a thousand delightful reveries that
took possession of my fancy, I got up by times, and, flying to the place of rendezvous, had
in a little time the pleasure of seeing Miss Williams approach with a smile on her countenance,
which I interpreted into a good omen. Neither was I mistaken in my presage. She presented me
with a letter from the idol of my soul, which, after having kissed it devoutly, I opened with
the utmost eagerness, and was blessed with her approbation in these terms:

    "Sir,

    "To say I look upon you with indifference would be a piece of
    dissimulation which I think no decorum requires, and no custom
    can justify. As my heart never felt an impression that my tongue
    was ashamed to declare, I will not scruple to own myself pleased
    with your passion; confident of your integrity, and so well
    convinced of my own discretion, that I should not hesitate in
    granting you the interview you desire, were I not overawed by
    the prying curiosity of a malicious world, the censure of which
    might be fatally prejudicial to the reputation of

                                               "Your Narcissa."

No anchorite in the ecstacy of devotion ever adored a relic with more fervour than that with
which I kissed this inimitable proof of my charmer's candour, generosity, and affection! I
read it over a hundred times, was ravished with her confession in the beginning; but the subscription
of Your Narcissa yielded me such delight as I had never felt before! My happiness was still
increased by Miss Williams, who blessed me with a repetition of her lady's tender expressions
in my favour, when she received and read my letter. In short, I had all the reason in the world
to believe that this gentle creature's bosom was possessed by a passion for me, as warm, though
perhaps not so impetuous as mine for her.

I informed my friend of the squire's consent to my dancing with Narcissa at the ball and desired
her to tell her mistress, that I would do myself the honour of visiting her in the afternoon,
in consequence of his permission, when I hoped to find her as indulgent as her brother had
been complaisant in that particular. Miss Williams expressed a good deal of joy at hearing
I was so much in favour with the foxhunter, and ventured to assure me, that my visit would
be very agreeable to my mistress, the rather because Bruin was engaged to dine abroad. This
was a circumstance which, I scarce need say, pleased me. I went immediately to the Long Room,
where I found him, and, affecting to know nothing of his engagement, told him, I would do myself
the pleasure to wait upon him in the afternoon, and to present his sister with a ticket for
the ball. He shook me by the hand, according to custom, and, giving me to understand that he
was to dine abroad, desired me to go and drink tea with Narcissa notwithstanding, and promised
to prepare her for my visit in the meantime.

Everything succeeding thus to my wish, I waited with incredible impatience for the time, which
no sooner arrived than I hastened to the scene, which my fancy had preoccupied long before.
I was introduced accordingly to the dear enchantress, whom I found accompanied by Miss Williams,
who, on pretence of ordering tea, retired at my approach. This favourable accident, which alarmed
my whole soul, disordered her also. I found myself actuated by an irresistible impulse; I advanced
to her with eagerness and awe; and, profiting by the confusion that prevailed over her, clasped
the fair angel in my arms, and imprinted a glowing kiss upon her lips, more soft and fragrant
than the dewy rosebud just bursting from the stem! Her face was in an instant covered with
blushes, her eyes sparkled with resentment; I threw myself at her feet, and implored her pardon.
Her love became advocate in my cause; her look softened into forgiveness; she raised me up,
and chid me with so much sweetness of displeasure that I could have been tempted to repeat
the offence, had not the coming in of the servant with the tea-board prevented my presumption.
While we were subject to be interrupted or overheard, we conversed about the approaching ball,
at which she promised to grace me as a partner, but, when the equipage was removed, and we
were left alone, I resumed the more interesting theme, and expressed myself with such transport
and agitation, that my mistress, fearing I should commit some extravagance, rang the bell for
her maid, whom she detained in the room, as a check upon my vivacity. I was not sorry for this
precaution, because I could unbosom myself without reserve before Miss Williams, who was the
confidante of us both. I therefore gave a loose to the inspirations of my passion, which operated
so successfully upon the tender affections of Narcissa, that she laid aside the constraint
she had hitherto worn, and blessed me with the most melting declaration of her mutual flame!
It was impossible for me to forbear taking the advantage of this endearing condescension. She
now gently yielded to my embraces; while I, encircling all that I held dear within my arms,
tasted in advance the joys of that paradise I hoped in a little time wholly to possess! We
spent the afternoon in all the ecstacy of hope that the most fervent love exchanged by mutual
vows could inspire; and Miss Williams was so much affected with our chaste caresses, which
recalled the sad remembrance of what she was, that her eyes were filled with tears.

The evening being pretty far advanced, I forced myself from the dear object of my flame, who
indulged me in a tender embrace at parting, and, repairing to my lodgings, communicated to
my friend Strap every circumstance of my happiness, which filled him with so much pleasure,
that it ran over at his eyes; and he prayed heartily, that no envious devil might, as formerly,
dash the cup of blessing from my lip. When I reflected on what had happened, and especially
on the unreserved protestations of Narcissa's love, I could not help being amazed at her omitting
to inquire into the particular circumstances of life and fortune of one whom she had favoured
with her affection, and I began to be a little anxious about the situation of her finances;
well knowing that I should do an irreparable injury to the person my soul held most dear, if
I should espouse her without being able to support her in the rank which was certainly her
due. I had heard, indeed, while I served her aunt, that her father had left her a considerable
sum; and that everybody believed she would inherit the greatest part of her kinswoman's dowry,
but I did not know how far she might be restricted by the old gentleman's will in the enjoyment
of what he left her: and I was too well informed of the virtuoso's late conduct, to think my
mistress could have any expectation from that quarter. I confided, however, in the good sense
and policy of my charmer, who, I was sure, would not consent to unite her fate with mine, before
she had fully considered and provided for the consequence.

The ball night being arrived, I dressed myself in a suit I had reserved for some grand occasion;
and, having drunk tea with Narcissa and her brother, conducted my angel to the scene, where
she, in a moment, eclipsed all her female competitors for beauty, and attracted the admiration
of the whole assembly. My heart dilated with pride on this occasion, and my triumph rejected
all bounds, when, after we had danced together, a certain nobleman, remarkable for his figure,
and influence in the beau monde, came up, and in the hearing of all present, honoured us with
a very particular compliment upon our accomplishments and appearance; but this transport was
soon checked, when I perceived his lordship attach himself with great assiduity to my mistress,
and say some warm things, which, I thought, savoured too much of passion. It was then I began
to feel the pangs of jealousy; I dreaded the power and address of my rival; I sickened at his
discourse; when she opened her lips to answer, my heart died within me; when she smiled, I
felt the pains of the damned! I was enraged at his presumption: I cursed her complaisance:
at length he quitted her, and went to the other side of the room. Narcissa, suspecting nothing
of the rage that inflamed me, put some questions to me as soon as he was gone, to which I made
no reply, but assumed a grim look, which too well denoted the agitation of my breast, and surprised
her not a little. She no sooner observed my emotion than she changed colour, and asked what
ailed me? but before I could make answer, her brother, pulling me by the sleeve, bade me take
notice of a lady who sat fronting us, whom I immediately, to my vast astonishment, distinguished
to be Melinda, accompanied by her mother, and an elderly gentleman, whom I did not know. "Wounds!
Mr. Randan," cried the squire, "is she not a delicate piece of stuff? 'Sdeath! I have a good
mind--if I thought she was a single person."

Notwithstanding the perplexity I was in, I had reflection enough to foresee that my passion
might suffer greatly by the presence of this lady, who, in all probability, would revenge herself
upon me, for having formerly disgraced her, by spreading reports to my prejudice. I was therefore
alarmed at these symptoms of the Squire's admiration; and for some time did not know what reply
to make, when he asked my opinion of her beauty; at length I came to a determination, and told
him that her name was Melinda, that she had a fortune of ten thousand pounds, and was said
to be under promise of marriage to a certain lord, who deferred his nuptials a few mouths until
he should be of age. I thought this piece of intelligence, which I had myself invented, would
have hindered him effectually from entertaining any further thoughts of her; but I was egregiously
mistaken. The foxhunter had too much self-sufficiency to despair of success against any competitor
on earth. He therefore made light of her engagement, saying, with a smile of self-approbation,
"Mayhap she will change her mind; what signifies his being a lord? I think myself as good a
man as e'er a lord in Christendom, and I'll see if a commoner worth three thousand a year won't
serve her turn." This determination startled me not a little; I knew he would soon discover
the contrary of what I advanced; and as I believed he would find her ear open to his addresses,
did not doubt of meeting with every obstacle in my amour that her malice could invent, and
her influence execute. This reflection increased my chagrin--my vexation was evident. Narcissa
insisted on going home immediately: and, as I led her to the door, her noble admirer, with
a look full of languishment, directed to her a profound bow, which stung me to the soul. Before
she went into the chair, she asked, with an appearance of concern, what was the matter with
me? and I could pronounce no more than "By heaven, I am distracted!" It is true, I was soon
sensible of the injury I had done, and asked pardon for the outrage I had committed; upon which
my faithful valet, shaking his head, said, "I forgive you, and may God forgive you!" But he
could not help shedding some tears at my unkindness. I felt unspeakable remorse for what I
had done, cursed my own ingratitude, and considered his tears as a reproach that my soul, in
its present disturbance, could not bear. It set all my passions into a ferment: I swore horrible
oaths without meaning or application. I foamed at the mouth, kicked the chairs about the room,
and played abundance of mad pranks that frightened my friend almost out of his senses. At length
my transport subsided, I became melancholy, and wept insensibly.

During this state of dejection, I was surprised with the appearance of Miss Williams, whom
Strap, blubbering all the while, had conducted into the chamber without giving me previous
notice of her approach. She was extremely affected with my condition, which she had learned
from him, begged me to moderate my passion, suspend my conjectures, and follow her to Narcissa,
who desired to see me forthwith. That dear name operated upon me like a charm! I started up,
and, without opening my lips, was conducted into her apartment through the garden, which we
entered by a private door. I found the adorable creature in tears; I was melted at the sight--we
continued silent for some time--my heart was too full to speak--her snowy bosom heaved with
fond resentment; at last she sobbing cried, "What have I done to disoblige you?" My heart was
pierced with the tender question. I drew near with the utmost reverence of affection. I fell
upon my knees before her, and, kissing her hand, exclaimed, "Oh! thou art all goodness and
perfection! I am undone by want of merit; I am unworthy to possess thy charms, which heaven
bath destined for the arms of some more favourite being." She guessed the cause of my disquiet,
upbraided me gently for my suspicion, and gave me such flattering assurances of her eternal
fidelity, that all my doubts and fears forsook me, and peace and satisfaction reigned within
my breast.

At midnight I left the fair nymph to her repose, and, being let out by Miss Williams at the
garden gate by which I entered, began to explore my way homeward in the dark, when I heard
at my back a noise like that of a baboon when he mews and chatters. I turned instantly, and,
perceiving something black, concluded I was discovered by some spy, employed to watch for that
purpose; aroused at this conjecture, by which the reputation of the virtuous Narcissa appeared
in jeopardy, I drew my sword, and would have sacrificed him to her fame, had not the voice
of Strap restrained my arm, it was with great difficulty he could pronounce, "D--d--d-do! mum--um--um--murder
me if you please." Such an effect had the cold upon his jaws, that his teeth rattled like a
pair of castanets. Pleased to be thus undeceived, I laughed at his consternation, and asked
what brought him thither? Upon which he gave me to understand, that his concern for me had
induced him to follow me to that place, where the same reason had detained him till now, and
he frankly owned, that, in spite of the esteem he had for Miss Williams he began to be very
uneasy about me, considering the disposition in which I went abroad; and, if I had stayed much
longer, would certainly have alarmed the neighbourhood in my behalf. The knowledge of this
his intention confounded me. I represented to him the mischievous consequences that would have
attended such a rash action, and, cautioning him severely against any such design for the future,
concluded my admonition with an assurance, that, in case he should ever act so madly, I would,
without hesitation, put him to death. "Have a little patience!" cried he, in a lamentable tone;
"your displeasure will do the business, without your committing murder." I was touched with
this reproach; and, as soon as we got home, made it my business to appease him, by explaining
the cause of that transport during which I had used him so unworthily.

Next day when I went into the Long Room, I observed several whispers circulate all of a sudden,
and did not doubt that Melinda had been busy with my character; but I consoled myself with
the love of Narcissa, upon which I rested with the most perfect confidence; and going up to
the rowly-powly table, won a few pieces from my suspected rival, who, with an easy politeness,
entered into conversation with me, and, desiring my company to the coffee-house, treated me
with tea and chocolate. I remembered Strutwell, and guarded against his insinuating behaviour;
nor was my suspicion wrong placed; he artfully turned the discourse upon Narcissa, and endeavoured
by hinting at an intrigue he pretended to be engaged in elsewhere, to learn what connection
there was between her and me. But all his finesse was ineffectual, I was convinced of his dissimulation,
and gave such general answers to his inquiries, that he was forced to drop the subject, and
talk of something else.

While we conversed in this manner, the savage came in with another gentleman, who introduced
him to his lordship, and he was received with such peculiar marks of distinction, that I was
persuaded the courtier intended to use him in some shape or other; and from thence I drew an
unlucky omen. But I had more cause to be dismayed the following day, when I saw the squire
in company with Melinda and her mother, who honoured me with several disdainful glances; and
when I afterwards threw myself in his way, instead of the cordial shake of the hand, he returned
my salute with a cold repetition of "Servant, servant!" which he pronounced with such indifference
or rather contempt, that if he had not been Narcissa's brother, I should have affronted him
in public.

These occurrences disturbed me not a little; I foresaw the brooding storm, and armed myself
with resolution for the occasion; but Narcissa, being at stake, I was far from being resigned.
I could have renounced every other comfort of life with some degree of fortitude, but the prospect
of losing her disabled all my philosophy, and tortured my soul into madness.

Miss Williams found me, next morning, full of anxious tumult, which did not abate when she
told me that my Lord Quiverwit, having professed honourable intentions, had been introduced
to my lovely mistress by her brother, who had, at the same time, from the information of Melinda,
spoken of me as an Irish fortune-hunter, without either birth or estate; who supported myself
in the appearance of a gentleman by sharping and other infamous practices; and who was of such
an obscure origin, that I did not even know my own extraction. Though I expected all this malice,
I could not hear it with temper, especially as truth was so blended with falsehood in the assertion,
that it would be almost impossible to separate the one from the other in my vindication. But
I said nothing on this head, being impatient to know how Narcissa had been affected with the
discovery. That generous creature, far from believing these imprecations, was no sooner withdrawn
with her confidante, than she inveighed with great warmth against the malevolence of the world,
to which only she ascribed the whole of what had been said to my disadvantage, and, calling
every circumstance of my behaviour to her into review before her, found everything so polite,
honourable, and disinterested, that she could not harbour the least doubt of my being the gentleman
I assumed. "I have indeed," said she, "purposely forborne to ask the particulars of his life,
lest the recapitulation of some misfortunes, which he has undergone, should give him pain;
and, as to the article of his fortune, I own myself equally afraid of inquiring into it, and
of discovering the state of my own, lest we should find ourselves both unhappy in the explanation;
for, alas! my provision is conditional, and depends entirely on my marrying with my brother's
consent."

I was thunderstruck with this intelligence, the light forsook my eyes, the colour vanished
from my cheeks, and I remained in a state of universal trepidation! My female friend, perceiving
my disorder, encouraged me with assurances of Narcissa's constancy, and the hope of some accident
favourable to our love; and, as a further consolation, gave me to understand, that she had
acquainted my mistress with the outlines of my life: and that, although she was no stranger
to the present low state of my finances, her love and esteem were rather increased than diminished
by the knowledge of my circumstances. I was greatly comforted by this assurance, which saved
me a world of confusion and anxiety; for I must have imparted my situation one day to Narcissa,
and this task I could not have performed without shame and disorder.

As I did not doubt that by this time the scandalous aspersions of Melinda were diffused all
over the town, I resolved to collect my whole strength of assurance, to browbeat the efforts
of her malice, and to publish her adventure with the frenchified barber by way of reprisal.
In the meantime, having promised to be at the garden-gate about midnight, Miss Williams took
her leave, bidding me repose myself entirely on the affection of my dear Narcissa, which was
as perfect as inviolable. Before I went abroad, I was visited by Freeman, who came on purpose
to inform me of the infamous stories that were raised at my expense. I heard them with great
temper, and in my turn disclosed everything that had happened between Melinda and me; and among
other circumstances entertained him with the story of the barber, letting him know what share
his friend Banter had in that affair. He was convinced of the injury my reputation had suffered;
and, no longer doubting the fountain from whence this deluge of slander had flowed upon me,
undertook to undeceive the town in my behalf, and roll the stream back upon its source; but
in the meantime, cautioned me from appearing in public, while the prepossession was so strong
against me, lest I should meet with some affront that might have bad consequences.

CHAPTER LIX

I receive an extraordinary Message at the Door of the Long Room, which, however, enter, and
affront the Squire, who threatens to take the Law of me--Rebuke Melinda for her Malice--she
weeps with Vexation--Lord Quiverwit is severe upon me--I retort his Sarcasm--am received with
the utmost Tenderness by Narcissa, who desires to hear the Story of my Life--we vow eternal
Constancy to other--I retire--am waked by a Messenger, who brings a Challenge from Quiverwit,
whom I meet, engage, and vanquish

I thanked him for his advice, which, however, my pride and resentment would not permit me to
follow; for he no sooner left me, in order to do justice to my character among his friends
and acquaintance, than I sallied out, and went directly to the Long Room. I was met at the
door by a servant, who presented a billet to me without a subscription, importing that my presence
was disagreeable to the company, and desiring I would take the hint without further disturbance,
and bestow myself elsewhere for the future. This peremptory message filled me with indignation.
I followed the fellow who delivered it, and, seizing him by the collar in presence of all the
company, threatened to put him instantly to death, if he did not discover the scoundrel who
had charged him with such an impudent commission, that I might punish him as he deserved. The
messenger, affrighted at my menaces and furious looks, fell upon his knees, and told me, that
the gentleman who ordered him to deliver the letter was no other than Narcissa's brother, who,
at that time, stood at the other end of the room, talking to Melinda. I went up to him immediately,
and in the hearing of his inamorata, accosted him in these words; "Lookee, squire, were it
not for one consideration that protects you from my resentment, I would cane you where you
stand, for having had the presumption to send me this scurrilous intimation;" which I tore
to pieces and threw in his face: at the same time darting an angry regard at his mistress,
I told her, I was sorry she had put it out of my power to compliment her upon her invention,
but at the expense of her good nature and veracity. Her admirer, whose courage never rose,
but in proportion to the wine he had swallowed, instead of resenting my address in what is
called an honourable way, threatened to prosecute me for an assault, and took witnesses accordingly:
while she, piqued at his pusillanimous behaviour, and enraged at the sarcasm I had uttered
against her, endeavoured to make her quarrel a public cause, and wept aloud with spite and
vexation.

The tears of a lady could not fail of attracting the notice and concern of the spectators to
whom she complained of my rudeness with great bitterness, saying, if she were a man, I durst
not use her so. The greatest part of the gentlemen, already prejudiced against me, were offended
at the liberty I had taken, as appeared from their looks; though none of them signified their
disgust any other way except my Lord Quiverwit, who ventured to say, with a sneer, that I was
in the right to establish my own character, of which he had now no longer any doubt. Nettled
at this severe equivocation, which raised a laugh at my expense, I replied with some warmth,
"I am proud of having in that particular got the start of your lordship." He made no answer
to my repartee, but with a contemptuous smile walked off, leaving me in a very disagreeable
situation. In vain did I make up to several people of my acquaintance, whose conversation,
I hoped, would banish my confusion; everybody shunned me like a person infected, and I should
not have been able to bear my disgrace, had not the idea of the ever faithful and fond Narcissa
come to my relief. I quitted the scene of my mortification, and, sauntering about the town,
happened to wake from my contemplation, when I found myself just opposite to a toy-shop, which
I entered, and purchased a ring set with a ruby in the form of a heart, surrounded by diamond
sparks, for which I paid ten guineas, intending it for a present to the charmer of my soul.

I was introduced, at the hour appointed, to this divine creature, who, notwithstanding what
she had heard to my disadvantage, received me with the utmost confidence and tenderness; and,
having been informed of the general sketches of my life by Miss Williams, expressed a desire,
of knowing the particular circumstances, which I related with great candour, omitting, however,
some things which I concluded altogether improper for her ear, and which the reader's reflection
will easily suggest. As my story was little else than a recital of misfortunes, the tear of
sympathy ceased not to trickle from her enchanting eyes during the whole of the narration,
which, when I had finished, she recompensed me for my trouble with the most endearing protestations
of eternal love. She bewailed her restricted condition, as it was the means of retarding my
happiness; told me that Lord Quiverwit, by her brother's permission, had been to drink tea
with her that very afternoon, and actually proposed marriage; and, seeing me extremely affected
with this piece of information, offered to give me a convincing proof of her affection, by
espousing me in private, and leaving the rest to fate. I was penetrated with this instance
of her regard, but, that I might not be outdone in generosity, resisted the bewitching temptation
in consideration of her honour and interest; at the same time I presented my ring as a pledge
of my inviolable attachment, and, on my knees, implored Heaven to shower its curses on my head,
if ever my heart should entertain one thought unworthy of the passion I then avowed. She received
my token, gave me in return her picture in miniature, exquisitely drawn and set in gold; and,
in the same posture, called Heaven to witness and to judge her flame. Our vows being thus reciprocally
breathed, a confidence of hope ensued, and our mutual fondness becoming as intimate as innocence
would allow, I grew insensible of the progress of time, and it was morning before I could tear
myself from this darling of my soul! My good angel foresaw what would happen, and permitted
me to indulge myself on this occasion, in consideration of the fatal absence I was doomed to
suffer.

I went to bed immediately on my return to my lodging, and, having slept about two hours, was
waked by Strap, who in great confusion told me there was a footman below with a letter, which
he would deliver to nobody but myself. Alarmed at this piece of news, I desired my friend to
show him into my chamber, and received the following letter, which, he said, required an immediate
answer:

    "Sir,--

    "When any man injures my honour, let the difference of rank
    between us be ever so great, I am contented to wave the privilege
    of my quality, and to seek reparation from him on equal terms.
    The insolence of your reply to me yesterday, in the Long Room, I
    might have overlooked, had not your presumptive emulation in a much
    more interesting affair, and which I made this morning, concurred
    in persuading me to chastise your audacity with my sword. If you
    therefore have spirit enough to support the character you
    assume, you will not fail to follow the bearer immediately to a
    convenient place, where you shall be met by

                                        "Quiverwit."

Whether I was enervated by the love and favour of Narcissa, or awed by the superior station
of my antagonist, I know not, but I never had less inclination to fight than at this time.
However, finding there was a necessity for vindicating the reputation of my mistress, as well
as for asserting my own honour, I forthwith rose, and, dressing in a hurry, put on my sword,
bade Strap attend me, and set out with my conductor, cursing my bad fortune all the way, for
having been observed in my return from my angel; for so I interpreted his lordship's discovery.
When I came within sight of my rival, his lacquey told me he had orders to stop; upon which
I commanded Strap to halt also, while I walked forward; resolving, if possible, to come to
an explanation with my challenger, before we should come to battle. Nor was an opportunity
wanting; for I no sooner approached than he asked, with a stern countenance, what business
I had in Mr. Topehall's garden so early in the morning? "I don't know, my lord," said I, "how
to answer a question put to me with such magisterial haughtiness. If your lordship will please
to expostulate calmly, you will have no cause to repent of your condescension; otherwise I
am not to be intimated into any confession." "There is no room for denial," answered he; "I
saw you come out with my own eyes." "Did any other see me?" said I. "I neither know nor care,"
said he; "I want no other evidence than that of my own senses." Pleased to hear that the suspicion
was confined to him alone, I endeavoured to appease his jealousy, by owning an intrigue with
the waiting maid: but he had too much discernment to be so easily imposed upon, and told me
there was only one way to convince him of the truth of what I alleged, which was no other than
renouncing all claim to Narcissa upon oath, and promising, upon honour, never to speak to her
for the future. Exasperated at this proposal, I unsheathed my sword, saying, "Heavens! what
title have you, or any man on earth, to impose such terms on me?" He did the same, and making
towards me with a contracted brow, said I was a villain, and had dishonoured Narcissa. "He's
a villain," I replied, in a transport of fury, "who brands me with that imputation! She is
a thousand times more chaste than the mother that bore you; and I will assert her honour with
my heart's blood!" So saying, I rushed upon him with more eagerness than address, and, endeavouring
to get within his point, received a wound in my neck, which redoubled my rage. He excelled
me in temper as well as in skill, by which means he parried my thrusts with great calmness,
until I had almost exhausted my spirits; and, when he perceived me beginning to flag, attacked
me fiercely in his turn. Finding himself, however, better opposed than he expected, he resolved
to follow his lounge, and close with me; accordingly, his sword entered my waistcoat, on the
side of the breast bone, and, running up between my shirt and skin, appeared over my left shoulder.
I imagined that his weapon had perforated my lungs, and of consequence that the wound was mortal;
therefore, determined not to die unrevenged, I seized his shell, which was close to my breast,
before he could disentangle his point, and, keeping it fast with my left hand, shortened my
own sword with my right, intending to run him through the heart; but he received the thrust
in the left arm, which penetrated up to the shoulder blade. Disappointed at this expectation,
and afraid still that death would frustrate my revenge, I grappled with him, and, being much
the stronger, threw him upon the ground, where I wrested his sword out of his hand, and, so
great was my confusion, that instead of turning the point upon him, struck out three of his
foreteeth with the hilt. In the meantime, our servants, seeing us fall, ran up to separate
and assist us; but before their approach I was upon my feet, and had discovered that my supposed
mortal wound was only a slight scratch. The knowledge of my own safety disarmed me of a good
deal of my resentment, and I began to inquire with soma concern into the situation of my antagonist,
who remained on the ground bleeding plentifully at his mouth and arm. I helped his footman
to raise him, and, having bound up his wound with my handkerchief, assured it was not dangerous;
I likewise restored his sword, and offered to support him to his house. He thanked me with
an air of sullen dignity: and whispering that I should hear from him soon, went away, leaning
on his servant's shoulder.

I was surprised at this promise, which I construed into a threat, and resolved, if ever he
should call me out again, to use whatever advantage fortune might give me over him in another
manner. In the meantime I had leisure to take notice of Strap, who seemed quite stupified with
horror: I comforted him with an assurance, that I had received no damage, and explained the
nature of this affair as we walked homeward. By the time I had got into my apartment, I found
the wound in my neck stiff and uneasy, and a good deal of clotted blood ran down upon my shirt;
upon which I pulled off my coat and waistcoat, and unbuttoned my collar, that I might dress
it with more ease. My friend no sooner perceived my shirt quite dyed with blood, than, imagining
I had got at least twenty thousand wounds, he cried, "O Jesus!" and fell flat on the floor.
I stopped the bleeding with a little dry lint, and, applying a plaster over it, cleaned myself
from the gore, shifted, and dressed, while he lay senseless at my feet, so that when he recovered,
and saw me perfectly well, he could scarce believe his own eyes. Now that the danger was passed,
I was very well pleased with what had happened, hoping that it would soon become known, and
consequently dignify my character not a little in this place. I was also proud of having shown
myself, in some shape, worthy of the love of Narcissa, who, I was persuaded, would not think
the worse of me for what I had done.

CHAPTER LX

I am visited by Freeman, with whom I appear in Public, and am caressed--am sent for by Lord
Quiverwit, whose Presence I quit flung--Narcissa is carried off by her Brother--I intend to
pursue him, and am dissuaded by my Friend--engage in Play, and lose all my Money--set out for
London--try my Fortune at the Gaming Table without success--receive a letter from Narcissa--bilk
my Tailor

While I entertained myself with these reflections, the news of the duel, being communicated
by some unknown channel, spread all over the town. I was visited by Freeman, who testified
his surprise at finding me; for it was told, that Lord Quiverwit being dead of his wounds,
I had absconded, in order to avoid the cognizance of the law. I asked, if people guessed the
occasion of the quarrel; and, understanding it was attributed to his lordship's resentment
of my reply in the Long Room, confirmed that conjecture, glad to find Narcissa unsuspected.
My friend, after I had assured him that my antagonist was in no danger, wished me joy of the
event, than which, he said, nothing could happen more opportunely to support the idea he had
given of my character to his friends, among whom he had been very assiduous in my behalf.

On the strength of this assurance, I went with him to the coffee-house, where I was saluted
by a great many of those very persons who had shunned me the preceding day; and I found everybody
making merry with the story of Melinda's French gallant. While I remained in this place, I
received a message from Lord Quiverwit, desiring, if I were not engaged, to see me at his house.

Thither I immediately repaired, and was conducted to an apartment where I was received by his
lordship in bed. When we were left by ourselves, he thanked me in very polite terms for having
used the advantage fortune had given me over him with such moderation, and asked pardon for
any offence his resentment might have prompted him to commit. "I would willingly," said he,
"make you my friend; but, as it is impossible for me to divest myself of my passion for Narcissa,
I am too well convinced of your sentiments, to think we shall ever agree on that subject. I
took the liberty, therefore, of sending for you, in order to own candidly, that I cannot help
opposing your success with that young lady; though, at the same time I promise to regulate
my opposition by the dictates of justice and honour. This, however, I think proper to advertise
you of, that she has no independent fortune; and, if you should even succeed in your addresses,
you will have the mortification to see her reduced to indigence, unless you have wherewithal
to support her--and I am credibly informed of your incapacity that way--nay, I will confess,
that, urged by this consideration, I have actually sent notice to her brother of the progress
I suspect you have made in her affection, and desired him to take his precautions accordingly."
Alarmed and provoked at this information, I told his lordship, that I did not see how he could
reconcile that piece of conduct with his profession of open dealing, and flung away from him
in a passion.

As I walked homeward, in hope of hearing from my mistress as usual by means of Miss Williams,
I was surprised with the waving of a handkerchief from the window of a coach-and-six that passed
by me at full speed: and upon further observation, I saw a servant on horseback riding after
it, who, I knew by his livery, belonged to the squire. Thunderstruck with this discovery, the
knowledge of my misfortune rushed all at once upon my reflection! I guessed immediately that
the signal was made by the dear hand of Narcissa, who, being hurried away in consequence of
Lord Quiverwit's message to her brother, had no other method of relating her distress, and
imploring my assistance. Frantic with this conjecture, I ran to my lodgings, snatched my pistols,
and ordered Strap to get post-horses, with such incoherence of speech and disorder, that the
poor valet, terrified with the suspicion of another duel, instead of providing what I desired,
went forthwith to Freeman, who, being informed of my behaviour, came straight to my apartment,
and conjured me so pathetically to make him acquainted with the cause of my uneasiness, that
I could not refuse telling him my happiness was fled with Narcissa, and that I must retrieve
her or perish. He represented the madness of such an undertaking, and endeavoured to divert
me from it with great strength of friendship and reason. But all his arguments would have been
ineffectual, had he not put me in mind of the dependence I ought to have on the love of Narcissa,
and the attachment of her maid, who could not fail of finding opportunities to advertise me
of their situation; and at the same time demonstrated the injury my charmer's reputation must
suffer from my precipitate retreat. I was convinced and composed by these considerations: I
appeared in public with an air of tranquillity, was well received by the best company in town,
and, my misfortune taking air, condoled accordingly: while I had the satisfaction of seeing
Melinda so universally discountenanced that she was fain to return to London, in order to avoid
the scoffs and censure of the ladies at Bath. But, though the hope of hearing from the darling
of my soul supported my spirits a little while, I began to be very uneasy, when, at the end
of several weeks I found that expectation disappointed. In short, melancholy and despondence
took possession of my soul; and, repining at that providence which, by acting the stepmother
towards me, kept me from the fruition of my wishes, I determined, in a fit of despair, to risk
all I had at the gaming table, with a view of acquiring a fortune sufficient to render me independent
for life; or of plunging myself into such a state of misery, as would effectually crush every
ambitious hope that now tortured my imagination.

Actuated by this fatal resolution, I engaged in play, and, after some turns of fortune found
myself, at the end of three days, worth a thousand pounds; but it was not my intention to stop
there, for which cause I kept Strap ignorant of my success, and continued my career until I
was reduced to five guineas, which I would have hazarded also, had I not been ashamed to fall
from a bet of two hundred pounds to such a petty sum.

Having thus executed my scheme, I went home, amazed to find myself so much at ease, and informed
my friend Strap of my mischance with such calmness, that he, imagining I joked, affected to
receive the tidings with great equanimity. But both he and I found ourselves mistaken very
soon. I had misinterpreted my own stupidity into deliberate resignation, and he had reason
to believe me in earnest when he saw me next morning agitated with the most violent despair,
which he endeavoured to alleviate with all the consolation in his power.

In one of my lucid intervals, however, I charged him to take a place in the stage coach for
London; and, in the meantime, paid my debts in Bath, which amounted to thirty shillings only.
Without taking leave of my friends, I embarked, Strap having the good fortune to find a return
horse, and arrived in town, without having net with anything remarkable on the road. While
we crossed Bagshot Heath, I was seized with a sort of inclination to retrieve my fortune, by
laying passengers under contribution in some such place. My thoughts were so circumstanced
at this time, that I should have digested the crime of robbery, so righteously had I concerted
my plan, and ventured my life in the execution, had I not been deterred by reflecting upon
the infamy that attends detection.

The apartment I formerly lived in being unengaged, I took possession of it, and next day went
in quest of Banter, who received me with open arms, in expectation of having his bond discharged
to his liking: but when he understood what had happened, his countenance changed of a sudden,
and he told me, with a dryness of displeasure peculiar to himself, that, if he were in my place,
he would put it out of fortune's power to play him such another trick, and be avenged of his
own indiscretion at once. When I desired him to explain his meaning, he pointed to his neck,
raised himself on his tiptoes, and was going away without any further ceremony, when I put
him in mind of my indigence, and demanded the five guineas I had formerly lent him. "Five guineas?"
cried he; "zounds! had you acted with common prudence, you might have had twenty thousand in
your pocket by this time. I depended upon five hundred from you, as much as if I had had notes
for it in the bank; and by all the rules of equity, you are indebted to me for that sum." I
was neither pleased nor convinced by this computation, and insisted on my right with such determined
obstinacy, that he was fain to alter his ton, and appease my clamour by assuring me, that he
was not master of five shillings. Society in distress generally promotes good understanding
among people; from being a dun I descended to be a client, and asked his advice about repairing
my losses. He counselled me to have recourse again to the gaming table, where I succeeded so
well before, and put myself in a condition by selling my watch. I followed his directions,
and, having accommodated him with a few pieces, went to the place, where I lost every shilling.

Then I returned to my lodgings full of desperate resolution, and having made Strap acquainted
with my fate, ordered him to pawn my sword immediately, that I might be enabled to make another
effort. This affectionate creature no sooner understood my purpose, than, seized with insupportable
sorrow at the prospect of my misery, he burst into tears, and asked what I proposed to do after
the small sum he could raise on the sword should be spent. "On my own account" said he, "I
am quite unconcerned; for, while God spares me health and these ten fingers, I can earn a comfortable
subsistence anywhere; but what must become of you, who have less humility to stoop, and more
appetites to gratify?" Here I interrupted him, by saying, with a gloomy aspect, I should never
want a resource while I had a loaded pistol in possession. Stupified with horror at this dreadful
insinuation, he stood mute for some time and then broke out into "God of his infinite mercy
enable you to withstand that temptation of the devil! Consider your immortal soul--there's
no repentance in the grave! O Lord! that we ever should have come to this! Are we not enjoined
to resign ourselves to the will of Heaven?--where is your patience?--Durum patientia frango--you
are but a young man--there may be many good things in store for you--accidit in puncto quo
non speratur in anno--remember your uncle, Mr. Bowling; perhaps he is now on his voyage homeward,
pleasing himself with the hopes of seeing and relieving you; nay, peradventure, he has already
arrived, for the ship was expected about this time." A ray of hope shot athwart my soul at
this suggestion; I thanked my friend for this seasonable recollection, and, after having promised
to take no resolution till his return, dismissed him to Wapping for intelligence.

In his absence I was visited by Banter, who, being informed of my bad luck at play, told me
that fortune would probably be one day weary of persecuting me. "In the meantime," said he,
"here's a letter for you, which I received just now inclosed in one from Freeman." I snatched
it with eagerness, and knowing the superscription to be of Narcissa's handwriting, kissed it
with transport, and, having opened it, read,

    "It is with great difficulty that I have stolen, from the
    observation of those spies who are set over me, this opportunity
    of telling you, that I was suddenly carried away from Bath
    by my brother, who was informed of our correspondence by Lord
    Quiverwit whom, I since understand, you have wounded in a duel
    on my account. As I am fully convinced of your honour and love,
    I hope I shall never hear of such desperate proofs of either for
    the future. I am so strictly watched that it will be impossible
    for you to see me, until my brother's suspicion shall abate, or
    Heaven contrive some other unforeseen event in our behalf. In
    the meantime, you may depend on the constancy and affection of

                            "Your own
          "Narcissa.

    "P. S. Miss Williams, who is my fellow prisoner, desires to be
    remembered to you. We are both in good health, and only in pain
    for you, especially as it will be impracticable for you to
    convey any message or letter to the place of our confinement; for
    which reason pray desist from the attempt, that, by miscarrying,
    might prolong our captivity.
                                           "N--."

This kind letter afforded me great consolation: I communicated it to Banter, and, at the same
time, showed him her picture: he approved of her beauty and good sense, and could not help
owning that my neglect of Miss Snapper was excusable, when such a fine creature engrossed my
attention.

I began to be reconciled to my fate, and imagined, that, if I could contrive means of subsisting
until my uncle should arrive, in case he were not already at home, he would enable me to do
something effectual in behalf of my love and fortune; I therefore consulted Banter about a
present supply, who no sooner understood that I had credit, with a tailor, than he advised
me to take off two or three suits of rich clothes, and convert them into cash, by selling them
at half-price to a salesman in Monmouth Street. I was startled at this proposal, which I thought
savoured a little of fraud; he rendered it palatable, by observing that, in a few months, I
might be in a condition to do everybody justice; and, in the meantime, I was acquitted by the
honesty of my intention. I suffered myself to be persuaded by his salvo, by which my necessity,
rather than my judgment, was convinced; and, when I found there were no accounts of the ship
in which my uncle embarked, actually put the scheme in practice, and raised by it five-and-twenty
guineas, paying him for his advice with the old five.

CHAPTER LXI

I am arrested--carried to the Marshalsea--find my old Acquaintance beau Jackson in that Jail--he
informs me of his Adventures--Strap arrives, and with difficulty is comforted--Jackson introduces
me to a Poet--I admire his Conversation and Capacity--am deeply affected with my Misfortune--Strap
hires himself as a Journeyman Barber

But this expedient was in a few weeks followed with a consequence I did not foresee. A player,
having purchased one of the suits that were exposed to sale, appeared in it on the stage one
night, while my tailor unfortunately happened to be present. He knew it immediately, and, inquiring
minutely into the affair, discovered my whole contrivance: upon which he came into my lodgings,
and telling me that he was very much straightened for want of money, presented his bill, which
amounted to fifty pounds. Surprised at which unexpected address, I affected to treat him cavalierly,
swore some oaths, asked if he doubted my honour, and telling him I should take care whom I
dealt with for the future, bade him come again in three days. He obeyed me punctually, demanded
his money, and finding himself amused with bare promises, arrested me that very day in the
street. I was not much shocked at this adventure, which, indeed, put an end to a state of horrible
expectation: but I refused to go to a sponging-house, where I heard there was nothing but the
most flagrant imposition: and, a coach being called, was carried to the Marshalsea, attended
by a bailiff and his follower, who were very much disappointed and chagrined at my resolution.

The turnkey, guessing from my appearance that I had money in my pocket, received me with the
repetition of the Latin word depone, and gave me to understand, that I must pay beforehand
for the apartment I should choose to dwell in. I desired to see his conveniences, and hired
a small paltry bed-chamber for a crown a week, which, in any other place, would not have let
for half the money. Having taken possession of this dismal habitation, I sent for Strap, and
my thoughts were busied in collecting matter of consolation to that faithful squire, when somebody
knocked at my door, which I no sooner opened, than a young fellow entered in very shabby clothes
and marvellous foul linen. After a low bow, he called me by name, and asked if I had forgotten
him. His voice assisted me in recollecting his person, whom I soon recognised to be my old
acquaintance, Jackson, of whom mention is made in the first part of my memoirs. I saluted him
cordially, expressed my satisfaction at finding him alive, and condoled him on his present
situation, which, however, did not seem to affect him much, for he laughed very heartily at
the occasion of our meeting so unexpectedly in this place. Our mutual compliments being past,
I inquired about his amour with the lady of fortune, which seemed to be so near a happy conclusion
when I had the pleasure of seeing him last: and, after an immoderate fit of laughter, he gave
me to understand that he had been egregiously bit in that affair. "You must know," said he,
"that a few days after our adventure with the bawd, and her b--ches, I found means to be married
to that same blue lady you speak of, and passed the night with her at her lodgings, so much
to her satisfaction, that early in the morning, after a good deal of snivelling and sobbing,
she owned, that, far from being an heiress of great fortune, she was no other than a common
woman of the town, who had decoyed me into matrimony, in order to enjoy the privilege of a
femme couverte; and that, unless I made my escape immediately, I should be arrested for a debt
of her contracting, by bailigs employed and instructed for that purpose. Startled at this intimation,
I rose in a twinkling, and taking leave of my spouse with several hearty damns, got safe into
the verge of the court, where I kept snug, until I was appointed surgeon's mate of a man-of-war
at Portsmouth; for which place I set out on Sunday, went on board of my ship, in which I sailed
to the Straits, where I had the good fortune to be made surgeon of a sloop that came home a
few months after, and was put out of commission: whereupon, I came to London, imagining myself
forgotten, and freed from my wife and her creditors, but had not been in town a week, before
I was arrested for a debt of hers, amounting to twenty pounds, and brought to this place, where
I have been fixed by another action since that time. However, you know my disposition, I defy
care and anxiety; and being on the half-pay list, make shift to live here tolerably easy."
I congratulated him on his philosophy, and, remembering that I was in his debt, repaid the
money he formerly lent me, which, I believe, was far from being unseasonable. I then inquired
about the economy of the place, which he explained to my satisfaction; and, after we had agreed
to mess together, he was just now going to give orders for dinner when Strap arrived.

I never in my life saw sorrow so extravagantly expressed in any countenance as in that of my
honest friend, which was, indeed, particularly adapted by nature for such impressions. When
we were left by ourselves, I communicated to him my disaster, and endeavoured to console him
with the same arguments he had formerly used to me, withal representing the fair chance I had
of being relieved in a short time by Mr. Bowling. But his grief was unutterable: he seemed
to give attention without listening, and wrung his hands in silence; so that I was in a fair
way of being infected by his behaviour, when Jackson returned, and, perceiving the deference
I paid to Strap, although in a footman's habit, distributed his crumbs of comfort with such
mirth, jollity and unconcern, that the features of the distressed squire relaxed by degrees;
he recovered the use of speech, and began to be a little more reconciled to this lamentable
event. We dined together on boiled beef and greens, brought from a cook's shop in the neighbourhood,
and, although this meal was served up in a manner little corresponding with the sphere of life
in which I had lately lived, I made a virtue of necessity, ate with good appetite, and treated
my friends with a bottle of wine, which had the desired effect of increasing the good humour
of my fellow prisoner, and exhilarating the spirits of Strap, who now talked cavalierly of
my misfortune.

After dinner Jackson left us to our private affairs; when I desired my friend to pack up all
our things, and carry them to some cheap lodgings he should choose for himself in the neighbourhood
of the Marshalsea, after he had discharged my lodgings, for which purpose I gave him money.
I likewise recommended to him the keeping my misfortune secret, and saying to my landlord,
or any other who should inquire for me, that I was gone into the country for a few weeks: at
the same time I laid strong injunctions upon him to call every second day upon Banter, in case
he should receive any letter for me from Narcissa, by the channel of Freeman; and by all means
to leave a direction for himself at my uncle's lodgings in Wapping, by which I might be found
when my kinsman should arrive.

When he departed to execute these orders (which by the bye were punctually performed that very
night), I found myself so little seasoned to my situation, that I dreaded reflection, and sought
shelter from it in the company of the beau, who, promising to regale me with a lecture upon
taste, conducted me to the common side, where I saw a number of naked miserable wretches assembled
together. We had not been here many minutes, when a figure appeared, wrapped in a dirty rug,
tied about his loins with two pieces of list, of different colours, knotted together; having
a black bushy beard, and his head covered with a huge mass of brown periwig, which seems to
have been ravished from the crown of some scarecrow. This apparition, stalking in with great
solemnity, made a profound bow to the audience, who signified their approbation by a general
response of "How d'ye do, doctor!" He then turned towards us, and honoured Jackson with a particular
salutation, upon which my friend, in a formal manner, introduced him to me by the name of Mr.
Melopoyn. This ceremony being over, he advanced into the middle of the congregation, which
crowded around him, and hemming three times, to my utter astonishment, pronounced with great
significance of voice and gesture, a very elegant and ingenious discourse upon the difference
between genius and taste, illustrating his assertions with apt quotations from the best authors,
ancient as well as modern. When he had finished his harangue, which lasted a full hour, he
bowed again to the spectators; not one of whom (I was informed) understood so much as a sentence
of what he had uttered. They manifested, however, their admiration and esteem by voluntary
contributions, which Jackson told me, one week with another, amounted to eighteen pence. This
moderate stipend, together with some small presents that he received for making up differences
and deciding causes amongst the prisoners, just enabled him to breathe and walk about in the
grotesque figure I have described. I understood also, that he was an excellent poet, and had
composed a tragedy, which was allowed by everybody who had seen it to be a performance of great
merit: that his learning was infinite, his morals unexceptionable, and his modesty invincible.
Such a character could not fail of attracting my regard; I longed impatiently to be acquainted
with him, and desired Jackson would engage him to spend the evening in my apartment. My request
was granted; he favoured us with his company, and, in the course of our conversation perceiving
that I had a strong passion for the Belles Lettres, acquitted himself so well on that subject,
that I expressed a fervent desire of seeing his productions. In this point too he gratified
my inclination; he promised to bring his tragedy to my room next day, and in the meantime,
entertained me with some detached pieces, which gave me a very advantageous idea of his poetical
talent. Among other things I was particularly pleased with some elegies, in imitation of Tibullus;
one of which I beg leave to submit to the reader as a specimen of his complexion and capacity:--

    Where now are all my flattering dreams of joy?
     Monimia, give my soul her wonted rest;--
    Since first thy beauty fixed my roving eye,
     heart-gnawing cares corrode my pensive breast!

    Let happy lovers fly where pleasures call,
     With festive songs beguile the fleeting hour,
    Lead beauty through the mazes of the ball,
     Or press her wanton in love's roseate bower:

    For me, no more I'll range the empurpled mead,
     Where shepherd's pipe and virgins dance around,
    Nor wander through the woodbine's fragrant shade,
     To hear the music of the grove resound.

    I'll seek some lonely church, or dreary hall,
     Where fancy paints the glimmering taper blue,
    Where damps hang mouldering on the ivy'd wall,
     And sheeted ghosts drink up the midnight dew,

    There, leagued with hopeless anguish and despair,
     A while in silence o'er my fate repair:
    Then, with a long farewell to love and care,
     To kindred dust my weary limbs consign.

    Wilt thou, Monimia, shed a gracious tear
     On the cold grave where all my sorrows rest?
    Strew vernal flowers, applaud my love sincere,
     And bid the turf lie easy on my breast?

