                  "When once the firm assurance fails
                     Which public faith imparts,
                  'Tis time for innocence to flee
                     From such deceitful arts.

                  "The Lord hath both a temple here
                     And righteous throne above,
                   Whence He surveys the sons of men,
                     And how their counsels move."

Poor timorous bird, whom even the firm assurance of wedded faith had failed, what was left
to her but to flee from the darts levelled against her? Yet that last verse brought a sense
of protection. Ah! did she deserve it? A prayerless night and prayerless morning had been hers,
and no wonder, since she had never gone to bed nor risen with the ordinary forms; but it was
with a pang that she recollected that the habit of calling out in her heart for guidance and
help had been slipping from her for a long time past, and she had never asked for heavenly
aid when her judgment was perplexed by Harriet, no, nor for protection in her flight.

She resolved to say her morning prayers with full attention so soon as the church was empty,
and meantime to follow the service with all her powers, though her pulses were still throbbing
and her head aching.

In the far distance she heard the Commandments, and near to her the unseen clerk responding,
and then followed a gospel of love and comfort. She could not catch every word, but there was
a sense of promised peace and comfort, which began to soothe the fluttering heart, for the
first time enjoying a respite from the immediate gripe of deadly terror.

The sermon chimed in with these feelings, not that she could have any account of it, nor preserved
any connected memory, but it was full of the words, Faith, Love, Sacrifice, so that they were
borne in on her ear and thought. Heavenly Love surrounding as with an atmosphere those who
had only faith to "taste and see how gracious the Lord is," believing that which cannot be
seen, and therefore having it revealed to their inmost sense, and thus living the only real life.

This was the chief thought that penetrated to her mind as she crouched on the straw hassock
behind the pew, and shared unseen in the blessing of peace. No one saw her as the hob-nailed
shoes trooped out of church, and soon she was entirely alone, kneeling still in her hiding-place,
and whispering half-aloud the omitted morning prayer, whose heartfelt signification had, she
felt, been neglected for a long, long time.

Since when? Ah! ever since those strange mysterious voices and caresses had come to charm and
terrify her, and when her very perplexity should have warned her to cling closer to the aid
of her Heavenly Father. Vague yearnings, uplifted feelings, discontents, and little tempers
had usurped the place of higher feelings, and blinded her eyes. And through it all, her heart
began to ache and long for tidings of him on whose pale features she had gazed so long and
who had ventured and suffered so much for her, nay, who had started into a moment's life for
her protection! All the tumult of resentment at the deception practised on her fell on the
uncle rather than the nephew; and in spite of this long year of tender kindness and consideration
from the recluse, there was a certain consideration from the recluse, there was a certain leaping
of heart at finding herself bound not to him but to the youth whose endearments returned with
a flood of tender remembrance. And she had fled just as he had claimed her as his wife, had
fled just as he had claimed her as his wife, unheeding whether he died of the injury she had
caused him! All that justified her alarm was forgotten, her heartstrings had wound themselves
round him, and began to pull her back.

Then she thought of the danger of directing Lady Belamour's wrath on her father, and leading
to his expulsion and destitution. She had been sent from home, and bestowed in marriage to
prevent his ruin, and should she now ensure it? Her return to him or even her disappearance
would no doubt lead to high words from him, and then he would be cast out to beggary in his
old age. No, she could only save him by yielding herself up, exonerating him from all knowledge
of her strange marriage, far more of the catastrophe, and let my Lady do her worst! She had,
as she knew, not been going on well lately, but she had confessed her faults, and recovered
her confidence that her Heavenly Father would guard her as long as she resolutely did her duty.
And her duty, as daughter and a wife, if indeed she was one, was surely to return, where her
heart was drawing her. It might be very terrible, but still it was going nearer to him, and
it would save her father.

The door was still open; she wrote a few words of gratitude and explanation to Dame Wheatfield,
on a piece of a torn book, wrapped a couple of guineas in it, and laid it in the basket, then
kneeling again to implore protection and safety, and if it might be, forgiveness and reconciliation,
she set forth. "Love is strong as death," said Mary Sedhurst's tomb. She knew better what that
meant than when her childish eyes first fell upon it. A sense of Divine Love was wrapping her
round with a feeling of support and trust, while the human love drew her onwards to confront
all deadly possibilities in the hope of rejoining her husband, or at least of averting misfortune
from her father.

CHAPTER XXV. VANISHED.

    Where there is no place
      For the glow-worm to lie,
    Where there is no space
      For receipt of a fly,
    Where the midge dares not venture
      Lest herself fast she lay,
    If Love come, he will enter
      And find out the way.--OLD SONG.

Major Delavie and his eldest daughter were sitting down to supper in the twilight, when a trampling
of horses was heard in the lane a carriage was seen at the gate, and up the pathway came a
slender youthful figure, in a scarlet coat, with an arm in a sling.

"It is!--yes, it is!" exclaimed Betty: "Sir Amyas himself!"

In spite of his lameness, the Major had opened the door before Palmer could reach it; but his
greeting and inquiry were cut short by the young man's breathless question: "Is she here?"

"Who?"

"My wife--my love. Your daughter, sweet Aurelia! Ah! it was my one hope."

"Come in, come in, sir," entreated Betty, seeing how fearfully pale he grew. "What has befallen
you, and where is my sister?"

"Would that I knew! I trusted to have found her here; but now, sir, you will come with me and
find her!"

"I do not understand you, sir," said the Major severely, "nor how you are concerned in the
matter. My daughter is the wife of your uncle, Mr. Belamour, and if, as I fear, you bear the
marks of a duel in consequence of any levity towards her, I shall not find it easy to forgive."

"On my word and honour it is no such thing," said the youth, raising a face full of frank innocence:
"Your daughter is my wife, my most dear and precious wife, with full consent and knowledge
of my uncle. I was married to her in his clothes, in the darkened room, our names being the same!"

"Was this your promise?" Betty exclaimed.

"Miss Delavie, to the best of my ability I have kept my promise. Your sister has never seen
me, nor to her knowledge spoken with me."

"These are riddles, young man," said the Major sternly. "If all be not well with my innocent
child, I shall know how to demand an account."

"Sir," said the youth: "I swear to you that she is the same innocent maiden as when she left
you. Oh!" he added with a gesture of earnest entreaty, "blame me as you will, only trace her."

"Sit down, and let us hear," said Betty kindly, pushing a chair towards him and pouring out
a glass of wine. He sank into the first, but waved aside the second, becoming however so pale
that the Major sprang to hold the wine to his lips saying: "Drink, boy, I say!"

"Not unless you forgive me," he replied in a hoarse, exhausted voice.

"Forgive! Of course, I forgive, if you have done no wrong by my child. I see, I see, 'tis not
wilfully. You have been hurt in her defence."

"Not exactly," he said: "I have much to tell," but the words came slowly, and there was a dazed
weariness about his eye that made Betty say, in spite of her anxiety--"You cannot till you
have eaten and rested. If only one word to say where she is!"

"Oh! that I could! My hope was to find her here," and he was choked by a great strangling sob,
which his youthful manhood sought to restrain.

Betty perceived that he was far from being recovered from the injury he had suffered, and did
her best to restrain her own and her father's anxiety till she had persuaded him to swallow
some of the excellent coffee which Nannerl always made at sight of a guest. To her father's
questions meantime, he had answered that he had broken his arm ten days ago, but he could not
wait, he had posted down as soon as he could move.

"You ought to sleep before you tell us farther," said the Major, speaking from a strong sense
of the duties of a host; but he was relieved when the youth answered, "You are very good, sir,
but I could not sleep till you know all."

"Speak, then," said the Major, "I cannot look at your honest young countenance and think you
guilty of more than disobedient folly; but I fear it may have cost my poor child very dear!
Is it your mother that you dread?"

"I would be thankful even to know her in my mother's keeping!" he said.

"Is there no mistake?" said the Major; "my daughter, Mrs. Arden, saw her at Brentford, safe
and blooming."

"Oh, that was before--before--" said Sir Amyas, "the day before she fled from my mother at
Bowstead, and has been seen no more."

He put his hand over his face, and bowed it on the table in such overpowering grief as checked
the exclamations of horror and dismay and the wrathful demands that were rising to the lips
of his auditors, and they only looked at one another in speechless sorrow. Presently he recovered
enough to say, "Have patience with me, and I will try to explain all. My cousin, Miss Delavie,
knows that I loved her sweet sister from the moment I saw her, and that I hurried to London
in the hope of meeting her at my mother's house. On the contrary, my mother, finding it vain
to deny all knowledge of her, led me to believe that she was boarded at a young ladies' school
with my little sisters. I lived on the vain hope of the holidays, and meantime every effort
was made to drive me into a marriage which my very soul abhorred, the contract being absolutely
made by the two ladies, the mothers, without my participation, nay, against my protest. I was
to be cajoled or else persecuted into it--sold, in fact, that my mother's debts might be paid
before her husband's return! I knew my Uncle Belamour was my sole true personal guardian, though
he had never acted further than by affixing his signature when needed. I ought to have gone
long before to see him, but as I now understand, obstacles had been purposely placed in my
way, while my neglectful reluctance was encouraged. It was in the forlorn hope of finding in
him a resource that took me to Bowstead at last, and then it was that I learnt how far my mother
could carry deception. There I found my sisters, and learnt that my own sweetest life had been
placed there likewise. She was that afternoon visiting some old ladies, but my uncle represented
that my meeting her could only cause her trouble and lead to her being removed. I was forced
then to yield, having an engagement in London that it would have been fatal to break, but I
came again at dark, and having sworn me to silence, he was forced to let me take advantage
of the darkness of his chamber to listen to her enchanting voice. He promised to help me, as
far as he had the power, in resisting the hateful Aresfield engagement, and he obtained the
assistance of an old friend in making himself acquainted with the terms of his guardianship,
and likewise of a letter my father had left for him. He has given me leave to show a part of
it to you, sir," he added, "you will see that my father expressed a strong opinion that you
were wronged in the matter of the estates, and declared that he had hoped to make some compensation
by a contract between one of your daughters and my brother who died. He charged my uncle if
possible to endeavour to bring about such a match between one of your children and myself.
Thus, you see, I was acting in the strictest obedience. You shall see the letter at once, if
I may bid my fellow Gray bring my pocket-book from my valise."

"I doubt not of your words, my young friend; your father was a gentleman of a high and scrupulous
honour. But why all this hide-and-seek work?--I hate holes and corners!"

"You will see how we were driven, sir. My mother came in her turn to see my uncle, and obtain
his sanction to her cherished plan, and when he absolutely refused, on account of Lady Aresfield's
notorious character, if for no other, she made him understand that nothing would be easier
than to get him declared a lunatic and thus to dispense with his consent. Then, finding how
the sweet society of your dear daughter had restored him to new life and spirit, she devised
the notable expedient of removing what she suspected to be the chief cause of my contumacy,
by marrying the poor child to him. He scouted the idea as a preposterous and cruel sacrifice,
but it presently appeared that Colonel Mar was ready to find her a debauched old lieutenant
who would gladly marry--what do I say?--it profanes the word--but accept the young lady for
a couple of hundred pounds. Then did I implore my uncle to seem to yield, and permit me to
personate him at the ceremony. Our names being the same, and all being done in private and
in the dark, the whole was quite possible, and it seemed the only means of saving her from
a terrible fate."

"He might--or you might, have remembered that she had a father!" said the Major.

"True. But you were at a distance, and my mother's displeasure against you was to be deprecated."

"I had rather she had been offended fifty times than have had such practices with my poor little
girl!" said Major Delavie. "No wonder the proposals struck me as strange and ambiguous. Whose
writing was it?"

"Mine, at his dictation," said the youth. "He was unwilling, but my importunity was backed
by my mother's threats, conveyed through Hargrave, that unless Aurelia became his wife she
should be disposed of otherwise, and that his sanity might be inquired into. Hargrave, who
is much attached to my uncle, and is in great awe of my Lady, was thoroughly frightened, and
implored him to secure himself and the young lady by consenting, thinking, too, that anything
that would rouse him would be beneficial."

"It is strange!" mused the Major. "A clear-headed punctilious man like your uncle, to lend
himself to a false marriage! His ten years of melancholy must have changed him greatly!"

"Less than you suppose, sir; but you will remember that my mother is esteemed as a terrible
power by all concerned with her. Even when she seemed to love me tenderly, I was made to know
what it was to cross her will, and alas! she always carries her point."

"It did seem a mode of protection," said Betty, more kindly.

"And" added the youth, "my uncle impressed on me from the first that he only consented on condition
the I treated this wedlock as betrothal alone, never met my sweet love save in his dark room,
and never revealed myself to her. He said it was a mere expedient for guarding her until I
shall come of age, or Mr. Wayland comes home, when I shall woo her openly, and if needful,
repeat the ceremony with her full knowledge. Meanwhile I wrote the whole to my stepfather,
and am amazed that he has never written nor come home."

"That is the only rational thing I have heard," said the Major. "Though--did your uncle expect
your young blood to keep the terms?"

"Indeed, sir, I was frightened enough the first evening that I ventured on any advances, for
they startled her enough to make her swoon away. I carried her from her room, and my uncle
dragged me back before the colour came back to that lovely face so that the women might come
to her. That was the only time I ever saw her save through the chinks of the shutters. Judge
of the distraction I lived in!"

Betty looked shocked, but her father chuckled a little, though he maintained his tone of censure
"And may I inquire how often these distracting interviews took place?"

"Cruelly seldom for one to whom they were life itself! Mar is, as you know, colonel of my corps,
and my liberty has been restrained as much as possible; I believe I have been oftener on guard
and on court-martial than any officer of my standing in the service; but about once in a fortnight
I could contrive to ride down to a little wayside inn where I kept a fresh horse, also a livery
coat and hat. I tied up my horse in a barn on the borders of the park, and put on a black vizard,
so as to pass for my uncle's negro in the dark. I could get admittance to my uncle's rooms
unknown to any servant save faithful Jumbo--who has been the sole depository of our secret.
However, since my mother's return from Bath, where the compact with Lady Aresfield was fully
determined, the persecution has been fiercer. I may have aroused suspicion by failing to act
my part when she triumphantly announced my uncle's marriage to me, or else by my unabated resistance
to the little termagant who is to be forced on me. At any rate, I have been so intolerably
watched whenever I was not on duty, that my hours of bliss became rarer than ever. Well, sir,
my uncle charges me with indiscretion, and says my ardour aroused unreasonable suspicions.
He was constantly anxious, and would baulk me in my happiest and most tantalising moments by
making some excuse for breaking up the evening, and then would drive me frantic by asking whether
he was to keep up my character for consistency in my absence. However, ten days since, the
twelfth of May, after three weeks' unendurable detention in town on one pretext or another,
I escaped, and made my way to Bowstead at last. My uncle told me that he had been obliged unwillingly
to consent to our precious charge going to meet her sister at Brentford, and that she was but
newly come home. Presently she entered, but scarcely had I accosted her before a blaze broke
out close to us. The flame caught the dry old curtains, they flamed up like tinder, and as
I leaped up on a table to tear them down, it gave way with me, I got a blow on the head, and
knew no more. It seems that my uncle, as soon as the fire was out, finding that my arm was
broken, set out to send the groom for the doctor--he being used to range the park at night.
The stupid fellow, coming home half tipsy from the village, saw his white hair and beard in
the moonlight, took him for a ghost, and ran off headlong. Thereupon my uncle, with new energy
in the time of need, saddled the horse, changed his dressing-gown with the groom's coat, and
rode off to Brentford. Then, finding that Dr. Hunter was not within, he actually went on to
London, where Dr. Sandys, who had attended him ever since his would, forced him to go to bed,
and to remain there till his own return. Thus my darling had no one to protect her, when, an
hour or so after the accident, my mother suddenly appeared. Spies had been set on me by Mar,
and so soon as they had brought intelligence of my movements she had hurried off from Ranelagh,
in full dress, just as she was, to track and surprise me. My uncle, having gone by the bridle
path, had not met her, and I was only beginning to return to my senses. I have a dim recollection
of hearing my mother threatening and accusing Aurelia, and striving to interfere, but I was
as one bound down, and all after that is blank to me. When my understanding again became clear,
I could only learn that my mother had locked her into her own room, whence she had escaped,
and"--with a groan--"nothing has been heard of her since!" Again he dropped his head on his
hand as one in utter dejection.

"Fled! What has been done to trace her?" cried the Major.

"Nothing could be done till my mother was gone and my uncle returned. The delirium was on me,
and whatever I tried to say turned to raving, all the worse if I saw or heard my mother, till
Dr. Sandys forbade her coming near me. She was invited to the Queen's Sunday card party moreover,
so she fortunately quitted Bowstead just before Mr. Belamour's return."

"Poor gentleman, he could do nothing," said Betty.

"Indeed I should have thought so, but it seems that he only needed a shock to rouse him. His
state had become hypochondriacal, and this strong emotion has caused him to exert himself;
and when he came into the daylight, he found he could bear it. I could scarce believe my eyes
when, on awakening from a sleep, I found him by my bedside, promising me that if I would only
remain still, he would use every endeavour to recover the dear one. He went first to Brentford,
thinking she might have joined her sister there, but Mr. and Mrs. Arden had left it at the
same time as she did. Then he travelled on to their Rectory at Rundell Canonicorum, thinking
she might have followed them, but they had only just arrived, and had heard nothing of her;
and he next sought her with his friend the Canon of Windsor, but all in vain. Meantime my mother
had visited me, and denied all knowledge of her, only carrying away my little sisters, I believe
because she found them on either side of my bed, telling me tales of their dear Cousin Aura's
kindness. When my uncle returned to Bowstead I could bear inaction no longer, and profited
by my sick leave to travel down hither, trusting that she might have found her way to her home,
and longing to confess all and implore your pardon, sir,--and, alas! Your aid in seeking her."

With the large tears in his eyes, the youth rose from his chair as he spoke, and knelt on one
knee before the Major, who exclaimed, extremely affected--"By all that is sacred, you have
it, my dear boy. It is a wretched affair, but you meant to act honourably throughout, and you
have suffered heavily. May God bless you both, and give us back my dear child. My Lady must
have been very hard with her, to make her thus fly, all alone."

"You do not know, I suppose, any cause for so timid a creature preferring flight to a little
restraint?"

"It seems," said Sir Amyas sadly, "that something the dear girl said gave colour to the charge
of having caused the fire, and that my mother in her first passion threatened her with the
constable!"

"My poor Aurelia! that might well scare her," cried Betty: "but how could it be?"

"They say she spoke of using something her sister had given her to discover what the mystery
was that alarmed her."

"Ah! that gunpowder trick of Mr. Arden's--I always hated it!" exclaimed Betty.

"Gunpowder indeed!" growled the old soldier. "Well, if ever there's mischief among the children,
Harriet is always at the bottom of it. I hope Mr. Belamour made her confess if she had a hand
in it."

"I believe he did," said Sir Amyas.

"Just like her to set the match to the train and then run away," said the Major.

"Still, sir," said Betty, her womanhood roused to defence, "though I am angered and grieved
enough that Harriet should have left Aurelia to face the consequences of the act she instigated,
I must confess that even by Sir Amyas's own showing, if he will allow me to say so, my sisters
were justified in wishing to understand the truth."

"That is what my uncle tells me," said the baronet. "He declares that if I had attended to
his stipulations, restrained my fervour, or kept my distance, there would have been neither
suspicion nor alarm. As if I had not restrained myself!"

"Ay, I dare say," said the Major, a little amused.

"Well, sir, what could a man do with most bewitching creature in the world, his own wife, too,
on the next chair to him?"

There was a simplicity about the stripling--for he was hardly more--which forced them to forgive
him; besides, they were touched by his paleness and fatigue. His own man--a respectable elderly
servant whom the Major recollected waiting on Sir Jovian--came to beg that his honour would
sit up no longer, as he had been travelling since six in the morning, and was quite worn out.
Indeed, so it proved; for when the Major and Betty not only promised to come with him on the
search the next day, but bade him a kind affectionate good-night, the poor lad, all unused
to kindness, fairly burst into tears, which all his dawning manhood could not restrain.

CHAPTER XXVI. THE TRACES.

    Oh, if I were an eagle to soar into the sky,
    I'd gaze around with piercing eye when I my love might spy.

The second-best coach, which resided at Bowstead, the same which had carried Aurelia off from
Knightsbridge, had brought Sir Amyas Belamour to Carminster--an effeminate proceeding of which
he was rather ashamed, though clearly he could not have ridden, and he had hoped to have brought
his bride back in it.

There was plenty of room in it to take back the Major, Betty, and even Eugene, since he could
not well have been left without his sister or Palmer, who was indispensable to the Major. He
was so enchanted at "riding in a coach," and going perhaps to see London, that he did not trouble
himself much about sister Aurelia being lost, and was in such high spirits as to be best disposed
of outside, between Palmer and Gray, where he could at his ease contemplate the horses, generally
four in number, though at some stages only two could be procured, and then at an extra steep
hill a farmer's horse from the hayfield would be hitched on in front. Luckily there was no
lack of money; Mr. Belamour and Hargrave had taken care that Sir Amyas should be amply supplied,
and thus the journey was as rapid as posting could be in those days of insufficient inns, worse
roads, and necessary precautions against highwaymen.

The road was not the same as that which the young baronet had come down by, as it was thought
better to take the chance of meeting a different stage waggon, Sir Amyas and his servant having,
of course, examined the one they had overtaken in coming down. At every possible resting place
on the route was inquiry made, but all in vain; no one had seen such a young gentlewoman as
was described, or if some answer inspired hope for a moment, it was dashed again at once. The
young gentlewoman once turned out to be the Squire's fat lady, and another time was actually
pursued into a troop of strolling players, attiring themselves in a barn, whence she came with
cheeks freshly rouged with blood taken from a cat's tail.

The young baronet had meanwhile become very dear to the Major and his daughter. He had inherited
his mother's indescribable attractiveness, and he was so frank, so affectionate, so unspoilt,
so grateful for the little attentions demanded by his maimed condition, so considerate of the
Major, and so regardless of himself, and, above all, so passionately devoted to his dearest
life, as he called Aurelia, that it was impossible not to take him into their hearts, and let
him be, as he entreated, a son and a brother.

The travellers decided on first repairing to Bowstead, thinking it probable that the truant
might have returned thither, or that Mr. Belamour might have found her in some one of the cottages
around. Hopes began to rise, and Major Delavie scolded Sir Amyas in quite a paternal manner
whenever he began to despond, though the parts were reversed whenever the young people's expectations
began to soar beyond his own spirits at the moment.

"Is yonder Hargrave? No, it is almost like my father!" exclaimed Sir Amyas, in amazement, as
the coach lumbered slowly up the approach, and a very remarkable figure was before them. The
long white beard was gone, the hair was brushed back, tied up, and the ends disposed of in
a square black silk bag, hanging down behind; and the dark grey coat, with collar and deep
cuffs of black velvet, was such as would be the ordinary wear of an elderly man of good position;
but the face, a fine aquiline one, as to feature, was of perfectly absolute whiteness, scarcely
relieved by the thin pale lips, or the eyes, which, naturally of a light-grey, had become almost
as colourless as the rest of the face, and Betty felt a shock as if she had seen a marble statue
clothed and animated, bowing and speaking.

The anxious inquiry and the mournful negative had been mutually exchanged before the carriage
door was opened, and all were standing together in the avenue.

"I have, however, found a clue, or what may so prove," said Mr. Belamour, when the greetings
had passed. "I have discovered how our fugitive passed the early part of the Sunday;" and he
related how he had elicited from the Mistresses Treforth that they had seen her and driven
her away with contumely.

Sir Amyas and the Major were not sparing of interjections, and the former hoped that his uncle
had told them what they deserved.

"Thereby only incurring the more compassion," said Mr. Belamour, dryly, and going on to say
that he had extended his inquires to Sedhurst, and had heard of her visit to Dame Wheatfield;
also, that the good woman, going to seek her at the church, had found only the basket with
the guineas in the paper. She had regarded this merely as a wrapper, and, being unable to read,
had never noticed the writing, but she had fortunately preserved it, and Mr. Belamour thus
learnt Aurelia's intention of throwing herself on Lady Belamour's mercy.

"My mother utterly denied all knowledge of her, when I cried out in anguish when she came to
see me!" said Sir Amyas.

"So she does to Hargrave, whom she sent off to interrogate Mrs. Arden," said Mr. Belamour.

"Have you any reason to think the child could have reached my Lady?" inquired Betty, seeing
that none of the gentlemen regarded my Lady's denials as making any difference to their belief,
though not one of them chose to say so.

"Merely negative evidence," said Mr. Belamour. "I find that no one in the house actually beheld
the departure of my Lady on that Sunday afternoon. The little girls had been found troublesome,
and sent out into the park with Molly, and my nephew was giving full employment to Jumbo and
Mrs. Aylward in my room. The groom, who was at the horses' heads, once averred that he saw
two women get into the carriage besides her ladyship; but he is such a sodden confused fellow,
and so contradicts himself, that I can make nothing of him."

"He would surely know his young mistress," said Sir Amyas.

"Perhaps not in the camlet hood, which Dame Wheatfield says she wore."

"Was good old Dove acting as coachman?" said Betty. "We should learn something from him."

"It was not her own coach," said Mr. Belamour. "All the servants were strangers, the liveries
sanguine, and the panels painted with helmets and trophies."

"Mar's," said Sir Amyas, low and bitterly.

"I guessed as much," said his uncle. "It was probably chosen on purpose, if the child has friends
in your own household."

"Then I must demand her," said the Major. "She cannot be denied to her father."

"At any rate we must go to town to-morrow," said Mr. Belamour. "We have done all we can here."

"Let us send for horses and go on at once," cried Sir Amyas.

"Not so fast, nephew. I see, by her face, that Miss Delavie does not approve, though our side
of the town is safer than Hounslow."

"I was not thinking of highwaymen, sir, but we set forth at five this morning, and Sir Amyas
always becomes flushed and feverish if he is over fatigued; nor is my father so strong as he was."

"Ah, ha! young sir, in adopting Betty for a sister you find you have adopted a quartermaster-general,
eh?" said the Major; "but she is quite right. We should not get to town before ten or eleven
at night, and what good would that do? No, no, let us sup and have a good night's rest, and
we will drive into town long enough before fine ladies are astir in the morning, whatever may
be the fashionable hour nowadays."

"Yes, nephew, you must content yourself with acting host to your father and sister-in-law in
your own house," said his uncle.

"It seems to me more like yours, sir," rejoined the youth; but at the hall door, with all his
native grace, he turned and gave his welcome, kissing Betty on the cheek with the grave ceremony
of the host, and lamenting, poor fellow, that he stood alone without his bride to receive them.

"Is that Jumbo?" asked Betty. "I must thank him for all his kind service to my dear sister."

Faithful Jumbo fairly wept when--infinite condescension for those days--Major Delavie shook
hands with him and thanked him.

"If pretty Missie Madam were but safe and well, Jumbo would wish no more," he sobbed out.

"Poor Jumbo," said Mr. Belamour, "he has never been the same man since pretty Missie Madam
has been lost. I hear his violin mourning for her till it is enough to break one's heart!"

However Eugene created a diversion by curious inquiries whether Jumbo would indeed play the
fiddle of which he had heard from Archer and Amoret, and he ran off most eagerly after the
negro to be introduced to the various curiosities of the place.

Mrs. Aylward attended Miss Delavie to her room, and showed herself much softened. As a good,
conscientious woman, she felt that she had acted a selfish part towards the lonely maiden,
and Betty's confident belief that she had been a kind friend was a keen reproach.

"Indeed, madam," she said, "I would lief you could truly call me such, but when young Miss
came here first I took her for one of that flighty sort that it is wise not to meddle with
more than needful. I have kept my place here these thirty years by never making or meddling,
and knowing nothing about what don't concern me, and is out of my province. Now, I wish I had
let the poor young lady be more friendly with me, for maybe I could have been of use to her
in her need.

"You had no suspicion?"

"No, ma'am; though I find there were those who suspected some one came up here disguised as
Jumbo; but I was never one to lend an ear to gossip, and by that time I trusted the dear young
lady altogether, and knew she would never knowingly do aught that was unbecoming her station,
or her religion."

"I am glad the dear child won your good opinion," said Betty.

"Indeed, ma'am, that you may say," returned Mrs. Aylward, whom anxiety had made confidential;
"for I own I was prejudiced against her from the first, as, if you'll excuse me, ma'am, all
we Bowstead people are apt to be set against whatever comes from my Lady's side. However, one
must have been made of the nether millstone not to feel the difference she made in the house.
She was the very life of it with her pretty ways, singing and playing with the children, and
rousing up the poor gentleman too that had lived just like a mere heathen in a dungeon, and
wouldn't so much as hear a godly word in his despair. And now he has a minister once a fortnight
to read prayers, and is quite another man--all through that blessed young lady, who has brought
him back to light and life." And as Betty's tears flowed at this testimony to her sister, the
housekeeper added, "Never you fear, ma'am; she is one of God's innocents and His Hand will
be over her."

Meantime, having dismissed the young lover to take, if he could, a much needed night's rest,
the Major was listening to Mr. Belamour's confession. "I was the most to blame, in as much
as an old fool is worse than a young one; and I would that the penalty fell on me alone."

"If she be in my cousin's hands I cannot believe that she will permit any harm to befall her,"
said the good Major, still clinging to his faith in Urania--the child he had taught to ride,
and with whom he had danced her first minuet.

"What I dread most is her being forced into some low marriage," said Mr. Belamour. "The poor
child's faith in the ceremony that passed must have been overthrown, and who can tell what
she may be induced to accept?"

"It was that threat which moved you?" said the Major.

"Yes. Hargrave assured me that my Lady had actually offered her to him, with a bribe of a farm
on easy terms; and when she found that he had other intentions, there seemed to be some broken-down
sycophant of Mar's upon the cards, but of course I was preferable, both because my fair sister-in-law
has some lingering respect for the honour of her own blood, and because the bar between Aurelia
and my nephew would be perpetual. I knew likewise that it was my brother's earnest desire that
a match should take place between your children and his.

"He did me too much honour. The lad showed me the extract from his letter."

"I could not give him the whole. It was fit for no eyes but mine, who had so long neglected
it, and barely understood that it existed. My poor brother's eyes were fully opened to his
wife's character, and even while he loved her to distraction, and yielded to her fascinating
mastery against his better judgment, he left me the charge of trying in some degree to repair
the injustice he believed you to be suffering, and of counteracting evil influences on her son."

"That seems at least to have been done."

"By no efforts of mine; but because the boy was happily permitted to remain with the worthy
tutor his father had chosen for him, and because Wayland is an excellent man, wise and prudent
in all things save in being bewitched by a fair face. Would that he were returned! When I first
consented to act this fool's part, I trusted that he would have been at home soon enough to
prevent more than the nominal engagement, and when my Lady's threats rendered it needful to
secure the poor child by giving her my name, I still expected him before my young gentleman
should utterly betray himself by his warmth."

"He tells me that he has written."

"True. On that I insisted, and I am the more uneasy, for there has been ample time for a reply.
It is only too likely, from what my nephew tells me of his venturesome explorations, that he
may have fallen into the hands of the Moorish corsairs! Hargrave says it is rumoured; but my
Lady will not be checked in her career of pleasure, and if she is fearful of his return, she
may precipitate matters with the poor girl!"

"Come, come, sir, I cannot have you give way to despondency. You did your best, and if it did
not succeed, it was owing to my foolish daughter Arden. Why, if she was not satisfied about
her sister, could she not have come here, and demanded an explanation? That would have been
the straightforward way!"

"Would that she had! Or would that I had sooner discovered my own entire recovery, which I
owe in very truth to the sweet being who has brought new life alike of body and mind to me,
and who must think I have requited her so cruelly."

CHAPTER XXVII. CYTHEREA'S BOWER.

    There Citherea, goddesse was and quene,
    Honourid highly for her majeste,
    And eke her sonne, the mighty god I weene,
    Cupid the blinde, that for his dignite
    A M lovers worshipp on ther kne.
    There was I bid on pain of dethe to pere,
    By Mercury, the winged messengre.--CHAUCER.

By twelve o'clock on the ensuing day Mr. Belamour, with Eugene and Jumbo, was set down at a
hotel near Whitehall, to secure apartments, while the Major went on to demand his daughter
from Lady Belamour, taking with him Betty, whom he allowed to be a much better match for my
Lady than he could be. Very little faith in his cousin Urania remained to him in the abstract,
yet even now he could not be sure that she would not talk him over and hoodwink him in any
actual encounter. Sir Amyas likewise accompanied him, both to gratify his own anxiety and to
secure admission. The young man still looked pale and worn with restless anxiety; but he had,
in spite of remonstrances, that morning discarded his sling, saying that he should return to
his quarters. Let his Colonel do his worst then; he had still more liberty than if compelled
to return to his mother's house.

Lady Belamour had, on her second marriage, forsaken her own old hereditary mansion in the Strand,
where Sir Jovian had died, and which, she said, gave her the vapours. Mr. Wayland, whose wealth
far exceeded her own, had purchased one of the new houses in Hanover Square, the fashionable
quarter and very much admired; but the Major regretted the gloomy dignity of the separate enclosure
and walled court of Delavie House, whereas the new one, in modern fashion, had only an area
and steps between the front and the pavement.

The hall door stood wide open, with a stately porter within, and lackeys planted about at intervals.
Grey descended from the box, and after some inquiry, brought word that "her Ladyship was at
breakfast," then, at a sign from his master, opened the carriage door. Sir Amyas, taking Betty
by the tips of her fingers, led her forward, receiving by the way greetings and inquiries from
the servants, whose countenances showed him to be a welcome arrival.

"Is it a reception day, Maine?" he asked of a kind of major-domo whom he met on the top of
the broad stairs.

"No, your honour."

"Is company with her ladyship?"

"No, not company, sir," with a certain hesitation, which damped Betty's satisfaction in the
first assurance.

What did she see as Maine opened the door? It was a very spacious bedroom, the bed in an alcove
hung with rose-coloured satin embroidered with myrtles and white roses, looped up with lace
and muslin. Like draperies hung round the window, fluted silk lined the room, and beautiful
japanned and inlaid cabinets and etageres adorned the walls, bearing all varieties and devices
of new and old porcelain from Chins, Sevres, Dresden, or Worcester, tokens of Mr. Wayland's
travels. There was a toilette table before one window covered with lacquer ware, silver and
ivory boxes, and other apparatus, and an exquisite Venetian mirror with the borders of frosted
silver work.

Not far off, but sideways to it, sat Lady Belamour in a loose sacque of some rich striped silk,
in crimson and blue stripes shot with gold threads. Slippers, embroidered with gold, showed
off her dainty feet, and a French hairdresser stood behind her chair putting the finishing
touches to the imposing fabric of powder, flower, and feather upon her head. A little hand-mirror,
framed in carved ivory inlaid with coral, and a fan, lay on a tiny spindle-legged table close
in front of her, together with a buff-coloured cup of chocolate. At a somewhat larger table
Mrs. Loveday, her woman, was dispensing the chocolate, whilst a little negro boy, in a fantastic
Oriental costume, waited to carry the cups about.

On a sofa near at hand, in an easy attitude, reclined Colonel Mar, holding out to Lady Belamour
a snuff-box of tortoiseshell and gold, and a lady sat near on one of the tall black-and-gold
chairs drinking chocolate, while all were giving their opinions on the laces, feathers, ribbons,
and trinkets which another Frenchman was displaying from a basket-box placed on the floor,
trying to keep aloof a little Maltese lion-dog, which had been roused from its cushion, and
had come to inspect his wares. A little further off, Archer, in a blue velvet coat, white satin
waistcoat, and breeches and silk stockings, and Amoret, white-frocked, blue-sashed, and bare-headed
(an innovation of fashion), were admiring the nodding mandarins, grinning nondescript monsters,
and green lions of extraordinary form which an emissary from a curiosity-shop was unpacking.

The scene was completed by a blue and yellow macaw at one window chained to his perch, and
a green monkey tethered in like manner at the other.

Of course Elizabeth Delavie did not perceive all these details at once. Her first sensation
was the shock to the decorum of a modest English lady at intruding into a bed-room; but her
foreign recollections coming to her aid, she accepted the fashion with one momentary feminine
review of her own appearance, and relief that she had changed her travelling gear for her Sunday
silks, and made her father put on his full uniform. All this passed while Sir Amyas was leading
her into the room, steering her carefully out of the monkey's reach. Then he went a step or
two forward and bent before his mother, almost touching the ground with one knee, as he kissed
her hand, and rising, acknowledged the lady with a circular sweep of his hat, and his Colonel
with a military salute, all rapidly, but with perfect ease and gracefulness. "Ah! my truant,
my runaway invalid!" said Lady Belamour, "you are come to surrender."

"I am come," he said gravely, holding out his stronger hand to his little brother and sister,
who sprang to him, "to bring my father-and sister-in-law, Major and Miss Delavie."

"Ah! my good cousin, my excellent Mrs. Betty, excuse me that my tyrant friseur prevents my
rising to welcome you. It is so good and friendly in you to come in this informal way to cheer
me under this terrible anxiety. Let me present you to my kind friend, the Countess of Aresfield,
who has been so good as to come in to-day to sustain my spirits. Colonel Mar you know already.
Pray be seated. Amyas--Archer--chairs. Let Syphax give you a cup of chocolate."

"Madam," said the Major, disregarding all this and standing as if on parade, "can I see you
alone? My business is urgent."

"No evil news, I trust! I have undergone such frightful shocks of late, my constitution is
well nigh ruined."

"It is I that have to ask news of you madam."

She saw that, if she trifled with him, something would break out that she would not wish to
have said publicly. "My time is so little my own," she said, "I am under command to be at the
Palace by two o'clock, but in a few minutes I shall be able to dismiss my tormentor, and then,
till my woman comes to dress me, I shall be at your service. Sit down, I entreat, and take
some chocolate. I know Mrs. Betty is an excellent housekeeper, and I want her opinion. My dear
Lady Aresfield, suffer me to introduce my estimable cousin, Mrs. Betty Delavie."

The Countess looking in her feathers and powder like a beetroot in white sauce, favoured Betty
with a broad stare. Vulgarity was very vulgar in those days, especially when it had purchased
rank, and thought manners might be dispensed with. Betty sat down, and Amoret climbed on her
lap, while a diversion was made by Archer's imperious entreaty that his mamma would purchase
a mandarin who not only nodded, but waved his hands and protruded his tongue.

Then ensued what seemed, to the sickening suspense of the two Delavies, a senseless Babel of
tongues on all sides; but it ended in the friseur putting up his implements, the trades-folk
leaving the selected goods unpaid for, and the poor poet bowing himself within reach of the
monkey, who made a clutch at his MS., chattered over it, and tore it into fragments. There
was a peal of mirth--loudest from Lady Aresfield--but Sir Amyas sprang forward with gentlemanly
regrets, apologies, and excuses, finally opening the door and following the poor man out of
the room to administer the guinea from his own pocket, while Colonel Mar exclaimed, "Here,
Archer, boy, run after him with this. The poor devil has won it by producing a smile from those
divine lips--such as his jungle might never have done---"

"Fie! fie! Mar," said the Lady, shaking her fan at him, "the child will repeat it to him."

"The better sport if he do," said Colonel Mar, carelessly; "he may term himself a very Orpheus
charming the beasts, so that they snatch his poems from him!"

Then, as Sir Amyas returned, Lady Belamour entreated her dear Countess to allow him to conduct
her to the withdrawing room, and there endeavour to entertain her. The Colonel could not but
follow, and the Major and Betty found themselves at length alone with her Ladyship.

"I trust you have come to relieve my mind as to our poor runaway," she began.

"Would to Heaven I could!" said the Major.

"Good Heavens! Then she has never reached you!"

"Certainly not.

"Nor her sister? Oh, surely she is with her sister!"

"No, madam, her sisters knows nothing of her. Cousin, you have children of your own! I entreat
of you to tell me what you have done with her."

"How should I have done anything with her? I who have been feeding all this time on the assurance
that she had returned to you."

"How could a child like her do so?"

"We know she had money," said Lady Belamour.

"And we know," said Betty, fixing her eyes on the lady, "that though she escaped, on the first
alarm, as far as Sedhurst, and was there seen, she had decided on returning to Bowstead and
giving herself up to you Ladyship."

"Indeed? At what time was that?" exclaimed my Lady.

"Some time in the afternoon of Sunday!"

"Ah! then I must have left Bowstead. I was pledged to her Majesty's card-table, and royal commands
cannot be disregarded, so I had to go away in grievous anxiety for my poor boy. She meant to
return to Bowstead, did she? Ah. Does not an idea strike you that old Amyas Belamour may know
more than he confesses! He has been playing a double game throughout."

"He is as anxious to find the dear girl as we are madam."

"So he may seem to you and to my poor infatuated boy, but you see those crazed persons are
full of strange devices and secrets, as indeed we have already experienced. I see what you
would say; he may appear sane and plausible enough to a stranger, but to those who have known
him ever since his misfortunes, the truth is but too plain. He was harmless enough as long
as he was content to remain secluded in his dark chamber, but now that I hear he has broken
loose, Heaven knows what mischief he may do. My dear cousin Delavie, you are the prop left
to me in these troubles, with my poor good man in the hands of those cruel pirates, who may
be making him work in chains for all I know," and the tears came into her beautiful eyes.

"They will not do that," said Major Delavie, eager to reassure her; "I have heard enough of
their tricks to know that they keep such game as he most carefully till they can get a ransom."

"Your are sure of that!"

"Perfectly. I met an Italian fellow at Vienna who told me how it was all managed by the Genoese
bankers."

"Ah! I was just thinking that you would be the only person who could be of use--you who know
foreign languages and all their ways. If you could go abroad, and arrange it for me!"

"If my daughter were restored---" began the Major.

"I see what you would say, and I am convinced that the first step towards the discovery would
be to put Mr. Belamour under restraint, and separate his black from him. Then one or other
of them would speak, and we might know how she has been played upon."

"What does your Ladyship suppose then?" asked the Major.

"This is what I imagine. The poor silly maid repents herself and comes back in search of me.
Would that she had found me, her best friend! But instead of that, she falls in with old Belamour,
and he, having by this time perceived the danger of the perilous masquerade in which he had
involved my unlucky boy, a minor, has mewed her up somewhere, till the cry should be over."

"That would be the part of a villain, but scarcely of a madman," said Betty dryly.

"My dear cousin Betty, there are lunatics endowed with a marvellous shrewdness to commit senseless
villanies, and to put on a specious seeming. Depend upon it, my unfortunate brother-in-law's
wanderings at night were not solely spent in communings with the trees and brooks. Who knows
what might be discovered if he were under proper restraint? And it is to you, the only relation
I have, that I must turn for assistance in my most unhappy circumstances," she added, wit a
glance so full of sweet helplessness that no man could withstand it. "I am so glad you are
here. You will be acting for me as well as for yourself in endeavouring to find your poor lovely
child, and the first thing I would have done would be to separate Belamour and his black, put
them under restraint, and interrogate them separately. You could easily get an order from a
magistrate. But ah, here comes my woman. No more now. You will come to me this evening, and
we can talk further on this matter. I shall have some company, and it will not be a regular
rout, only a few card-tables, and a little dancing for the young people."

"Your ladyship must excuse me," said Betty, "I have no dress to appear in, even if I had spirits
for the company."

"Ah! my dear cousin, how do you think it is with my spirits? Yet I think it my duty not to
allow myself to be moped, but to exert myself for the interest of my son. While as to dress,
my woman can direct you to the milliner who would equip you in the last mode. What, still obstinate?
Nay, then, Harry, I can take no excuse from you, and I may have been able to collect some intelligence
from the servants."

Nothing remained but to take leave and walk home, the Major observing--

"Well, what think you of that, Betty?"

"Think, sir?--I think it is not for my lady to talk of villains."

"She is in absolute error respecting Belamour; but then she has not seen him since his recovery.
Women are prone to those fancies, and in her unprotected state, poor thing, no wonder she takes
alarms."

"I should have thought her rather over-protected."

"Now, Betty, you need not take a leaf out of Mrs. Duckworth's book, and begin to be censorious.
You saw how relieved she was to have me, her own blood relation, to turn to, instead of that
empty braggart of a fellow. Besides, a man does not bring his step-mother when there's anything
amiss."

There was something in this argument, and Betty held her peace, knowing that to censure my
Lady only incited her father to defend her.

For her own part her consternation was great, and she walked on in silence, only speaking again
to acquiesce in her father's observation that they must say nothing to Mr. Belamour of my Lady's
plans for his seclusion.

They found Mr. Belamour in the square parlour of the Royal York, having sent Eugene out for
a walk with Jumbo. The boy's return in the most eager state of excitement at the shops, the
horses, sedans, and other wonders, did something, together with dinner, to wile away the weary
time till, about three hours after the Major and his daughter had returned, they were joined
by the young baronet, who came running up the stairs with a good deal more impetuosity than
he would have permitted himself at home.

"At last I have escaped," he said. "I fear you have waited long for me?"

"I have been hoping you had discovered some indications," said the Major.

"Alas, no! I should imagine my Lady as ignorant as we are, save for one thing."

"And that was---?"

"The pains that were taken to prevent my speaking with any of the servants. I was forced to
attend on that harridan, Lady Aresfield, till my mother sent for me; and then she made Mar
absolutely watch me off the premises. Then I had to go and report myself at head-quarters,
and see the surgeon, so that there may be no colour of irregularity for the Colonel to take
advantage of."

"Right, right!" said the Major; "do not let him get a handle against you, though I should not
call you fit for duty yet, even for holiday-work like yours."

"You still suspect that your mother knows where our Aurelia is?" said Betty. "When I think
of her demeanour, I can hardly believe it! But did you hear nothing of your little sisters?"

"I did not ask. In truth I was confounded by a proposal that was made to me. If I will immediately
marry my mother's darling, Lady Belle, I may have leave of absence from her and my regiment,
both at once, and go to meet Mr. Wayland if I like, or at any rate make the grand tour, while
they try to break in my charming bride for me. Of course I said that, being a married man,
nothing should induce me to break the law, nor to put any lady in such a position; and equally,
of course, I was shown a lawyer's opinion that the transaction was invalid."

"As I always believed," said his uncle. "The ceremony must be repeated when we find her: though
even if you were willing, the other parties are very ill-advised to press for a marriage without
judgment first being delivered, how far the present is binding. So she wants to send you off
on your travels, does she?"

"She wishes me to go and arrange for her husband's ransom," said the Major. "I would be ready
enough were my child only found, but I believe government would take it up, he being on his
Majesty's service."

"It is a mere device for disposing of you--yes, and of my nephew too," said Mr. Belamour. "As
for me, we know already her kind plans for putting me out of reach of interference. I see,
she communicated them to you. Did she ask your cooperation, Major? Ah! certainly, an ingenious
plan for disuniting us. I am the more convinced that she is well aware of where the poor child
is, and that she wishes to be speedy in her measures."

There is no need to describe the half-frantic vehemence of the young lover, nor the way in
which the father and sister tried to moderate his transports, though no less wretched themselves.

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE ROUT.

    Great troups of people travelled thitherward
    Both day and night, of each degree and place.--SPENSER.

Much against their will, Major Delavie and his soi-disant son-in-law set forth for Lady Belamour's
entertainment, thinking no opportunity of collecting intelligence was to be despised; while
she probably wished to obviate all reports of a misunderstanding as well as to keep them under
her own eye.

The reception rooms were less adorned than the lady's private apartment. There were pictures
on the walls, and long ranks of chairs ranged round, and card-tables were set out in order.
The ladies sat in rows, and the gentlemen stood in knots and talked, all in full dress, resplendent
figures in brilliant velvet, gold lace, and embroidery, with swords by their sides, cocked
hats, edged with gold or silver lace, under their arms, and gemmed shoe buckles. The order
of creation was not yet reversed; the male creature was quite as gorgeous in colour and ornament
as the female, who sat in her brocade, powder and patches, fan in hand, to receive the homage
of his snuff-box.

Sir Amyas went the round, giving and returning greetings, which were bestowed on him with an
ardour sufficient to prove that he was a general favourite. His mother, exquisitely dressed
in a rich rose-coloured velvet train, over a creamy satin petticoat, both exquisitely embroidered,
sailed up with a cordial greeting to her good cousin, and wanted to set him down to loo or
ombre; but the veteran knew too well what the play in her house was, and saw, moreover, Lady
Aresfield sitting like a harpy before the green baize field of her spoils. While he was refusing,
Sir Amyas returned to him, saying, "Sir, here is a gentleman whom I think you must have known
in Flanders;" and the Major found himself shaking hands with an old comrade. Save for his heavy
heart, he would been extremely happy in the ensuing conversation.

In the meantime Lady Belamour, turning towards a stout, clumsy, short girl, her intensely red
cheeks and huge black eyes staring out of her powder, while the extreme costliness of her crimson
satin dress, and profusion of her rubies were ridiculous on the unformed person of a creature
scarcely fifteen. If she had been any one else she would have been a hideous spectacle in the
eyes of the exquisitely tasteful Lady Belamour, who, detecting the expression in her son's
eye, whispered behind her fan, "We will soon set all that right;" then aloud, "My son cannot
recover from his surprise. He did not imagine that we could steal you for an evening from Queen's
Square to procure him this delight." Then as Sir Amyas bowed, "The Yellow Room is cleared for
dancing. Lady Belle will favour you, Amyas."

"You must excuse me, madam," he said; "I have not yet the free use of my arm, and could not
acquit myself properly in a minuet."

"I hate minuets," returned Lady Belle; "the very notion gives me the spleen."

"Ah, pretty heretic!" said my Lady, making a playful gesture with her fan at the peony-coloured
cheek. "I meant this wounded knight to have converted you, but he must amuse you otherwise.
What, my Lord I thought you knew I never meant to dance again. Cannot you open the dance without
me? I, who have no spirits!"

The rest was lost as she sailed away on the arm of a gentleman in a turquoise-coloured coat,
and waistcoat embroidered with gillyflowers; leaving the Lady Arabella on the hands of her
son, who, neither as host nor gentleman, could escape, until the young lady had found some
other companion. He stiffly and wearily addressed to her the inquiry how she liked London.

"I should like it monstrously if I were not moped up in school," she answered. "So you have
come back. How did you hurt your arm?" she said, in the most provincial of dialects.

"In the fire, madam."

"What? In snatching your innamorata from the flames?"

"Not precisely," he said.

"Come, now, tell me; did she set the room a-fire?" demanded the young lady. "Oh, you need not
think to deceive me. My brother Mar's coachman told my mamma's woman all about it, and how
she was locked up and ran away; but they have her fast enough now, after all her tricks!"

"Who have? For pity's sake tell me, Lady Belle!"

Loving to tease, she exclaimed: "There, now, what a work to make about a white-faced little
rustic!"

"Your ladyship has not seen her."

"Have I not, though? I don't admire your taste."

"Is she in Queen's Square?"

"Do not you wish me to tell you where you can find your old faded doll, with a waist just like
a wasp, and an old blue sacque--not a bit of powder in her hair?"

"Lady Belle, if you would have me for ever beholden to you---"

"The cap fits," she cried, clapping her hands. "Not a word to say for her! I would not have
such a beau for the world."

"When I have found her it will be time to defend her beauty! If your ladyship would only tell
me where she is, you know not what gratitude I should feel!"

"I dare say, but that's my secret. My mamma and yours would be ready to kill me with rage if
they knew I had let out even so much."

"They would forgive you. Come, Lady Belle, think of her brave old father, and give some clue
to finding her. Where is she?"

"Ah! where you will never get at her!"

"Is she at Queen's Square?"

"What would you do if you thought she was? Get a constable and come and search? Oh, what a
rage Madam would be in! Goodness me, what sport!" and she fell back in a violent giggling fit;
but the two matrons were so delighted to see the young people talking to one another, that
there was no attempt to repress her. Sir Amyas made another attempt to elicit whether Aurelia
were really at the school in Queen's Square, but Lady Arabella still refused to answer directly.
Then he tried the expedient of declaring that she was only trying to tease him, and had not
really seen the lady. He pretended not to believe her, but when she insisted, "Hair just the
colour of Lady Belamour's," his incredulity vanished; but on his next entreaty, she put on
a sly look imitated from the evil world in which she lived, and declared she should not encourage
naughty doings. The youth, who though four years older, was by far the more simple and innocent
of the two, replied with great gravity, "It is the Lady Belamour, my own wife, that I am seeking."

"That's just the nonsense she talks!"

"For Heaven's sake, what did she say?"

But Belle was tired of her game, and threw herself boisterously on a young lady who had the
"sweetest enamel necklace in the world," and whose ornaments she began to handle and admire
in true spoilt-child fashion.

Sir Amyas then betook himself to the Major, who saw at once by his eye and step that something
was gained. They took leave together, Lady Belamour making a hurried lamentation that she had
seen so little of her dear cousin, but accepting her son's excuse that he must return to his
quarters; and they walked away together escorted by Palmer and Grey, as well as by two link-boys,
summer night though it was.

Sir Amyas repaired first to the hotel, where Mr. Belamour and Betty were still sitting, for
even the fashionable world kept comparatively early hours, and it was not yet eleven o'clock.
The parlor where they sat was nearly dark, one candle out and the other shaded so as to produce
the dimness which Mr. Belamour still preferred, and they were sitting on either side of the
open window, Betty listening to her companion's reminiscences of the evenings enlivened by
poor Aurelia, and of the many traits of her goodness, sweet temper, and intelligence which
he had stored up in his mind. He had, he said, already learned through her to know Miss Delavie,
and he declared that the voices of the sisters were so much alike that he could have believed
himself at Bowstead with the gentle visitor who had brought him new life.

The tidings of Lady Arabella's secret were eagerly listened to, and the token of the mouse-coloured
hair was accepted; Sir Amyas comparing, to every one's satisfaction, a certain lock that he
bore on a chain next his heart, and a little knot, surrounded with diamonds, in a ring, which
he had been still wearing from force of habit, though he declared he should never endure to
do so again.

It was evident that Lady Belle had really seen Aurelia; and where could that have been save
at the famous boarding-school in Queen's Square, where the daughters of "the great" were trained
in the accomplishments of the day? The Major, with rising hopes, declared that he had always
maintained that his cousin meant no ill by his daughter, and though it had been cruel, not
to say worse, in her, to deny all knowledge of the fugitive, yet women would have their strange
ways.

"That is very hard on us women, sir," said Betty.

"Ah! my dear, poor Urania never had such a mother as you, and she has lived in the great world
besides, and that's a bad school. You will not take our Aurelia much into it, my dear boy,"
he added, turning wistfully to Sir Amyas.

"I would not let a breath blow on her that could touch the bloom of her charming frank innocence,"
cried the lad. "But think you she can be in health? Lady Belle spoke of her being pale!"

"Look at my young lady herself!" said the Major, which made them all laugh. They were full
of hope. The Major and his daughter would go themselves the next day, and a father's claim
could not be refused even though not enforced according to Lady Arabella's desire.

Their coach--for so Sir Amyas insisted on their going--was at the door at the earliest possible
moment that a school for young ladies could be supposed to be astir; long before Mr. Belamour
was up, for he retained his old habits so much that it was only on great occasions the he rose
before noon; and while Eugene, under the care of Jumbo and Grey, was going off in great felicity
to see the morning parade in St. James's Park.

One of the expedients of well-born Huguenot refugees had been tuition, and Madame d'Elmar had
made here boarding-school so popular and fashionable that a second generation still maintained
its fame, and damsels of the highest rank were sent there to learn French, to play the spinnet,
to embroider, to dance, and to get into a carriage with grace. It was only countrified misses,
bred by old-fashioned scholars, who attempted to go any farther, such as that lusus naturae,
Miss Elizabeth Carter, who knew seven languages, or the Bishop of Oxford's niece, Catherine
Talbot, who even painted natural flowers and wrote meditations! The education Aurelia Delavie
had received over her Homer and Racine would be smiled at as quite superfluous.

There was no difficulty about admission. The coach with its Belamour trappings was a warrant
of admittance. The father and daughter were shown into a parlour with a print of Marshal Schomberg
over the mantelpiece, and wonderful performances in tapestry work and embroidery on every available
chair, as well as framed upon the wainscoted walls.

A little lady, more French than English, moving like a perfectly wound up piece of mechanism,
all but her bright little eyes, appeared at their request to see Madame. It had been agreed
before-hand that the Major should betray neither doubt nor difficulty, but simply say that
he had come up from the country and wished to see his daughter.

Madame, in perfectly good English, excused herself, but begged to hear the name again.

There must be some error, no young lady of the name of Delavie was there.

They looked at one another, then Betty asked, "Has not a young lady been placed here by Lady
Belamour?"

"No, madam, Lady Belamour once requested me to receive her twin daughters, but they were mere
infants; I receive none under twelve year old."

"My good lady," cried the Major, "if you are denying my daughter to me, pray consider what
you are doing. I am her own father, and whatever Lady Belamour may tell you, I can enforce
my claim."

"I am not in the habit of having my word doubted, sir," and the little lady drew herself up
like a true Gascon baroness, as she was.

"Madam, forgive me, I am in terrible perplexity and distress. My poor child, who was under
Lady Belamour's charge, has been lost to us these three weeks or more, and we have been told
that she has been seen here."

"Thus," said Betty, seeing that the lady still needed to be appeased, "we thought Lady Belamour
might have deceived you as well as others."

"May I ask who said the young lady had been seen here?" asked the mistress coldly.

"It was Lady Arabella Mar," said Betty, "and, justly speaking, I believe she did not say it
was here that my poor sister was seen, but that she had seen her, and we drew the conclusion
that it was here."

"My Lady Arabella Mar is too often taken out by my Lady Countess," said Madame d'Elmar.

"Could I see her? Perhaps she would tell me where she saw my dear sister?" said Betty.

"She went to a rout last evening and has not returned," was the reply. "Indeed my lady, her
mother, spoke as if she might never come back, her marriage being on the tapis. Indeed, sir,
indeed, madam, I should most gladly assist you," she said as a gesture of bitter grief and
disappointment passed between father and daughter, both of whom were evidently persons of condition.
"If it will be any satisfaction to the lady to see all my pupils, I will conduct her through
my establishment."

Betty caught at this, though there was no doubt that the mistress was speaking in good faith.
She was led to a large empty room, where a dozen young ladies were drawn up awaiting the dancing
master--girls from fourteen to seventeen, the elder ones in mob caps, those with more pretensions
to fashion, with loose hair. Their twelve curtsies were made, their twenty-four eyes peeped
more or less through their lashes at the visitor, but no such soft brown eyes as Aurelia's
were among them.

"Madame," said Betty, "may I be permitted to ask the ladies a question?" She spoke it low,
and in French, and her excellent accent won Madame's heart at once. Only Madame trusted to
Mademoiselle's discretion not to put mysteries into their minds, or they would be all tete montee.

So, as discretely as the occasion would permit, Betty asked whether any one had seen or heard
Lady Belle speak of having seen any one--a young lady?

Half-a-dozen tongues broke out, "We thought it all Lady Belle's whimsical secrets," and as
many stories were beginning, but Madame's awful little hand waved silence, as she said, "Speak
then, Miss Staunton."

"I know none of Lady Belle's secrets, ma'am--ask Miss Howard."

Miss Howard looked sulky; and a little eager, black-eyed thing cried, "She said it was an odious
girl whom Lady Belamour keeps shut up in a great dungeon of an old house, and is going to send
beyond seas, because she married two men at once in disguise."

"Fie, Miss Crawford, you know nothing about it."

"You told me so, yourself, Miss Howard."

"I never said anything so foolish."

"Hush, young ladies," said Madame. "Miss Howard, if you know anything, I request you to speak."

"It would be a great kindness," said Betty. "Might I ask the favour of seeing Miss Howard in
private?"

Madame consented, and Miss Howard followed Betty out of hearing, muttering that Belle would
fly at her for betraying her.

"I do not like asking you to betray your friend's confidence," said Betty.

"Oh, as to that, I'm not her friend, and I believe she has talked to a half-a-dozen more."

"I am this poor young lady's sister," said Betty. "We are afraid she has fallen into unkind
hands; and I should be very thankful if you could help me to find her. Where do you think Lady
Belle saw her?"

"I thought it was in some old house in Hertfordshire," said Miss Howard, more readily, "but
I am not sure; for it was last Sunday, which she spent with her mamma. She came back and made
it a great secret that she had seen the girl that had taken in Sir Amyas Belamour, who was
contracted to herself, to marry him and his uncle both at once in disguise, and then had set
the house a-fire. Belle had got some one to let her see the girl, and then she went on about
her being not pretty."

"What did she say about sending her beyond seas?"

"Oh! that Miss Crawford made up. She told me that they were going to find a husband for her
such as a low creature like that deserved. And she protests she is to be married to Sir Amyas
very soon, and come back here while he makes the grand tour. I hope she won't. She will have
more spiteful ways than ever."

This was all that Betty could extract. She saw Miss Crawford alone, but her tiding melted into
the vaguest second-hand hearsay. The inquiry had only produced a fresh anxiety.

CHAPTER XXIX. A BLACK BLONDEL.

    And to the castle gate approached in quiet wise,
    Whereat soft knocking, entrance he desired.
                                          SPENSER.

"Nephew, is Delavie House inhabited?" inquired Mr. Belamour, as the baffled seekers sat together
that evening.

"No, sir," replied Sir Amyas. "My Lady will only lease it to persons of quality, on such high
terms that she cannot obtain them for a house in so antiquated a neighbourhood. Oh, you do
not think it possible that my dearest life can be in captivity so near us! An old house! On
my soul, so it must be; I will go thither instantly."

"And be taken for a Mohock! No, no, sit down, rash youth, and tell me who keeps the house."

"One Madge, an old woman as sour as vinegar, who snarled at me like a toothless cur when I
once went there to find an old fowling-piece of my father's."

"Then you ar the last person who should show yourself there, since there are sure to be strict
charges against admitting you, and you would only put the garrison on the alert. You had better
let the reconnoitring party consist of Jumbo and myself."

The ensuing day was Sunday. Something was said of St. Paul's, then in bloom of youth and the
wonder of England; but Betty declared that she could not run about to see fine churches till
her mind was at ease about her poor sister. Might she only go to the nearest and quietest church?
So she, with her father and Eugene, repaired to St. Clement Danes, where their landlord possessed
a solid oak pew, and they heard a sermon on the wickedness and presumption of inoculating for
the small-pox.

It was not a genteel neighbourhood, and the congregation was therefore large, for the substantial
tradesfolk who had poured into the Strand since it had been rebuilt were far more religiously
disposed than the fashionable world, retaining either the Puritan zeal, or the High Church
fervour, which were alike discouraged in the godless court. The Major and his son and daughter
were solitary units in the midst of the groups of portly citizens, with soberly handsome wives,
and gay sons and daughters, who were exchanging greetings; and on their return to their hotel,
the Major betook himself to a pipe in the bar, and Eugene was allowed to go for a walk in the
park with Palmer, while Betty sat in her own room with her Bible, striving to strengthen her
assurance that the innocent would never be forsaken. Indeed Mr. Belamour had much strengthened
her grounds of hope and comfort by his testimony to poor Aurelia's perfect guilelessness and
simplicity throughout the affair. Yet the echo of that girl's chatter about Lady Belle's rival
being sent beyond the sea would return upon her ominously, although it might be mere exaggeration
and misapprehension, like so much besides.

A great clock, chiming one, warned her to repair to the sitting-room, where she met Eugene,
full of the unedifying spectacle of a fight between two street lads. There had been a regular
ring, and the boy had been so much excited that Palmer had had much ado to bring him away.
Betty had scarcely hushed his eager communications and repaired his toilette for dinner before
Sir Amyas came in, having hurried away as soon as possible after attending his men to and from
church.

"Sister," he said, for so he insisted on calling Betty, "I really think my uncle's surmise
may be right. I went home past Delavie House last night, just to look at it, and there was--there
really was, a light in one of the windows on the first floor, which always used to be as black
as Erebus. I had much ado to keep myself from thundering at the gate. I would have done so
before now but for my uncle's warning. Where can he be?"

The Major and Mr. Belamour here came in together, and the same torrent was beginning to be
poured forth, when the latter cut it short with, "They are about to lay the cloth. Restrain
yourself, my dear boy, or---" and as at that moment the waiter entered, he went on with the
utmost readiness--"or, as it seems, the Queen of Hungary will never make good her claims. Pray,
sir," turning to Major Delavie, "have you ever seen these young Archduchesses whose pretensions
seem likely to convulse the continent to its centre?"

The Major, with an effort to gather his attention, replied that he could not remember; but
Betty, with greater presence of mind, described how she had admired the two sisters of Austria
as little girls walking on the Prater. Indeed she and Mr. Belamour contrived to keep up the
ball till the Major was roused into giving an opinion of Prussian discipline, and to tell stories
of Leopold of Dessau, Eugene, and Marlborough with sufficient zest to drive the young baronet
almost frantic, especially as Jumbo, behind his master's chair, was on the broad grin all the
time, and almost dancing in his shoes. Once he contrived to give an absolute wink with one
of his big black eyes; not, however, undetected, for Mr. Belamour in a grave tone of reprimand
ordered him off to fetch an ivory toothpick-case.

Not till the cloth had been remove, and dishes of early strawberries and of biscuits, accompanied
by bottles of port and claret, placed on the table, and the servants had withdrawn, did Mr.
Belamour observe, "I have penetrated the outworks."

There was an outburst of inquiry and explanation, but he was not to be prevented from telling
the story in his own way. "I know the house well, for my brother lived there the first years
of his marriage, before you came on the stage, young sir. Perhaps you do not know how to open
the door from without?"

"Oh, sir, tell me the trick!"

Mr. Belamour held up a small pass-key. There was a certain tone of banter about him which almost
drove his nephew wild, but greatly reassured Miss Delavie.

"Why--why keep me in torments, instead of taking me with you?" cried the youth.

"Because I wished my expedition to be no failure. I could not tell whether my key, which I
found with my watch and seals, would still serve me. Ah! you look on fire; but remember the
outworks are not the citadel."

"For Heaven's sake, sir, torture me not thus!"

"I knew that to make my summons at the out gate would lead to a summary denial by the sour
porteress, so I experimented on the lock of the little door into the lane, and admitted myself
and Jumbo into the court; but the great hall-door stood before me jealously closed, and the
lower windows were shut with shutters, so that all I could do was to cause Jumbo to awake the
echoes with a lusty peal on the knocker, which he repeated at intervals, until there hobbled
forth to open it a crone as wrinkled and crabbed as one of Macbeth's witches. I demanded whether
my Lady Belamour lived there. She croaked forth a negative sound, and had nearly shut the door
in my face, but I kept her in parley by protesting that I had often visited my Lady there,
and offering a crown-piece if she would direct me to her."

"A crown! a kingdom, if she would bring us to the right one!" cried Sir Amyas.

"Of course she directed me to Hanover Square, and then, evidently supposing there was something
amiss with the great gates, she insisted on coming to let me out, and securing them after me."

The youth gave a great groan, saying, "Excuse me, sir, but what are we the better of that?"

"Endure a little while, impatient swain, and you shall hear. I fancy she recognised the Belamour
Livery on Jumbo, for she hobbled by my side maundering apologies about its being against orders
to admit gentle or simple, beast or body into the court, and that a poor woman could not lose
her place and the roof over her head. But mark me, while this was passing, Jumbo, who had kept
nearer the house whistling 'The Nightingale' just above his breath, heard his name called,
and presently saw two little faces at an up-stairs window."

"My little sisters!" cried Sir Amyas.

"Even so; and he believes he heard one of them call out, 'Cousin, cousin Aura, come and see
Jumbo;' but as the window was high up, I scarce dare credit his ears rather than his imagination,
and we were instantly hustled away by the old woman, whose evident alarm is a further presumption
that the captive is there, since Faith and Hope scarce have reached the years of being princesses
immured in towers."

"It must be so," said Betty; "it would explain Lady Belle's having had access to her! And now?"

"Is it impossible to effect an entrance from the court and carry her away?" asked Sir Amyas.

"Entirely so," said his uncle. "The only door into the court is fit to stand a siege, and all
the lower windows are barred and fastened with shutters. The servants' entrance is at the back
towards the river, but no doubt it is also guarded, and my key will not serve for it."

"I could get some sprightly fellow of ours to come disguised as Mohocks, and break in," proceeded
the youth, eagerly. "Once in the court, trust me for forcing my way to her."

"And getting lodged in Newgate for your pains, or tried by court-martial," said the Major.
"No, when right is on our side, do not let us make it wrong. Hush, Sir Amyas, it is I who must
here act. Whether you are her husband I do not know, I know that I am her father, and to-morrow
morning, as soon as a magistrate can be spoken with, I shall go and demand a search warrant
for the body of my daughter, Aurelia Delavie."

"The body! Good Heavens, sir," cried Betty.

"Not without the sweet soul, my dear Miss Delavie," said Mr. Belamour. "Your excellent father
has arrived at the only right and safe decision, and provided no farther alarm is given, I
think he may succeed. It is scarcely probable that my Lady is in constant communication with
her stern porteress, and my person was evidently unknown. For her own sake, as well as that
of the small fee I dropped into her hand, she is unlikely to report my reconnoissance."

Sir Amyas was frantic to go with his father-in-law, but both the elder men justly thought that
his ambiguous claims would but complicate the matter. The landlord was consulted as to the
acting magistrates of the time, and gave two or three addresses.

Another night of prayer, suspense, and hope for Betty's sick heart. Then, immediately after
breakfast, the Major set forth, attended by Palmer, long before Mr. Belamour had left his room,
or the young baronet could escape from his military duties. Being outside the City, the Strand
was under the jurisdiction of justices of the peace for Middlesex, and they had so much more
than they could do properly, that some of them did it as little as possible. The first magistrate
would not see him, because it was too early to attend to business; the second never heard matters
at his private house, and referred him to the office in Bow Street. In fact he would have been
wiser to have gone thither at first, but he had hoped to have saved time. He had to wait sitting
on a greasy chair when he could no longer stand, till case after case was gone through, and
when he finally had a hearing and applied for a warrant to search for his daughter in Delavie
House, there was much surprise and reluctance to put such an insult on a lady of quality in
favour at Court. On his giving his reasons on oath for believing the young lady to be there,
the grounds of his belief seemed to shrink away, so that the three magistrates held consultation
whether the warrant could be granted. Finally, after eying him all over, and asking him where
he had served, one of them, who had the air of having been in the army, told him that in consideration
of his being a gentleman of high respectability who had served his country, they granted what
he asked, being assured that he would not make the accusation lightly. The reforms made by
Fielding had not yet begun, everybody had too much work, and the poor Major had still some
time to wait before an officer--tipstaff, as he was called--could accompany him, so that it
was past noon when, off in the Bowstead carriage again, they went along the Strand, to a high-walled
court belonging to one of the old houses of the nobility, most of which had perished in the
fire of London. There was a double-doored gateway, and after much thundering in vain, at which
the tipstaff, a red-nosed old soldier, waxed very irate, the old woman came out in curtseying,
crying, frightened humility, declaring that they would find no one there--they might look if
they would.

So they drove over the paved road, crossing the pitched pebbles, the door was unbarred, but
no Aurelia sprang into her father's arms. Only a little terrier came barking out into the dismal
paved hall. Into every room they looked, the old woman asseverating denials that it was of
no use, they might see for themselves, that no one had been there for years past. Full of emptiness,
indeed, with faded grimy family portraits on the walls, moth-eaten carpets and cushions, high-backed
chairs with worm-holes; and yet, somehow, there was one room that did look as if it had recently
been sat in. Two little stools were drawn up close to a chair; the terrier poked and smelt
about uneasily as though in search of some one, and dragged out from under a couch a child's
ball which he began to worry. On the carpet, too, were some fragments of bright fresh embroidery
silk, which the practiced eye of the constable noticed. "This here was not left ten or a dozen
years ago," said he; and, extracting the ball from the fangs of the dog, "No, and this ball
ain't ten year old, neither. Come, Mother What's'-name, it's no good deceiving an officer of
the law; whose is this here ball?"

"It's the little misses. They've a bin here with their maid, but their nurse have been and
fetched 'em away this morning, and a good riddance too."

"Who was the maid?--on your oath!"

"One Deborah Davis, a deaf woman, and pretty nigh a dumb one. She be gone too."

Nor could the old woman tell where she was to be found. "My Lady's woman sent her in," she
said, "and she was glad enough to be rid of her."

"Come, now, my good woman, speak out, and it will be better for you," said the Major. "I know
my daughter was here yesterday."

"And what do I know of where she be gone? She went off in a sedan-chair this morning before
seven o'clock, and if you was to put me to the rack I couldn't say no more."

As to which way or with whom she had gone, the old woman was, apparently, really ignorant.

The poor Major had to return home baffled and despairing, still taking the tipstaff with him,
in case, on consultation with Mr. Belamour, it should be deemed expedient to storm Hanover
Square itself, and examine Lady Belamour and her servants upon oath.

Behold, the parlour was empty. Even Betty and Eugene were absent. The Major hastened to knock
at Mr. Belamour's door. There was no answer; and when he knocked louder it was still in vain.
He tried the door and found it locked. Then he retreated to the sitting-room, rang, and made
inquiries of the waiter who answered the bell.

Mr. Belamour had received a note at about ten o'clock, and had gone out with him "in great
disorder," said the waiter.

At the same moment there was a knock at the door, and a billet was brought in from Lady Belamour.
The Major tore it open and read:--

  "MY DEAR COUSIN,

      "I grieve for you, but my Suspicions were correct.  We have all
been completely hoodwinked by that old Villain, my Brother-in-law. I
can give him no other Name, for his partial Aberration of Mind has only
sharpened his natural Cunning. Would you believe it? He had obtained
access to Delavie House, and had there hidden the unfortunate Object of
your Search, while he pretended to be assisting you, and this Morning
he carried her off in a Sedan. I have sent the good Doves to Bowstead in
case he should have the Assurance to return to his old Quarters, but I
suspect that they are on the Way to Dover. You had better consult with
Hargrave on the means of confirming the strange Marriage Ceremony that
has passed between them, since that affords the best Security for your
Daughter's Maintenance and Reputation. Believe me, I share in your
Distress. Indeed I have so frightful a Megrim that I can scarcely tell
what I write, and I dare not admit you to-day.

                 "I remain,
            "Your loving and much-grieved Cousin,
                              "URANIA BELAMOUR."

Poor Major! His horror, perplexity, and despair were indescribable. He had one only hope--that
Sir Amyas and Betty might be on the track.

CHAPTER XXX. THE FIRST TASK.

    After all these there marcht a most faire dame,
    Led of two gryslie villains, th' one Despight,
    The other cleped Crueltie by name.
                                      SPENSER.

The traces of occupation had not deceived Major Delavie; Aurelia had been recently in Delavie
House, and we must go back some way in our narrative to her arrival there.

She had, on her return from Sedhurst on that Sunday, reached Bowstead, and entered by the lobby
door just as Lady Belamour was coming down the stairs only attended by her woman, and ready
to get into the carriage which waited at the hall door.

Sinking on her knees before her with clasped hands, Aurelia exclaimed, "O madam, I ought not
to have come away. Here I am, do what you will with me, but spare my father. He knew nothing
of it. Only, for pity's sake, do not put me among the poor wicked creatures in gaol."

"Get into that carriage immediately, and you shall know by decision," said Lady Belamour, with
icy frigidness, but not the same fierceness as before; and Aurelia submissively obeyed, silenced
by an imperious gesture when she would have asked, "How is it with him?" whom she durst not name.

Lady Belamour waited a minute or two while sending Loveday on a last message to the sick room,
then entered the large deep carriage, signing to her captive to take a corner where she could
hardly be seen if any one looked through the window. Loveday followed, the door was shut by
a strange servant, as it was in fact Lady Aresfield's carriage, borrowed both for the sake
of speed, and of secrecy towards her own household.

A few words passed by which Aurelia gathered something reassuring as to the state of the patient,
and then Lady Belamour turned on her, demanding, "So, young miss, you tried to escape me! Where
have you been?"

"Only as far as Sedhurst Church, madam. I would have gone home, but I feared to bring trouble
on my father, and I came back to implore you to forgive."

There was no softening of the terrible, beautiful face before her, and she durst put no objective
case to her verb. However, the answer was somewhat less dreadful than she had anticipated.

"I have been shamefully duped," said Lady Belamour, "but it is well that it is no worse; nor
shall I visit our offences on your father if you show your penitence by absolute submission.
The absurd ceremony you went through was a mere mockery, and the old fool, Belamour, showed
himself crazed for consenting to such an improper frolic on the part of my son. Whether your
innocence be feigned or not, however, I cannot permit you to go out of my custody until the
foolish youth or yourself be properly bestowed in marriage elsewhere. Meantime, you will remain
where I place you, and exactly fulfil my commands. Remember that any attempt to communicate
with any person outside the house will be followed by your Father's immediate dismissal."

"May I not let him know that I am safe?"

"Certainly not; I will see to your father."

It was a period when great ladies did not scruple to scold at the top of their voices, and
sometimes proceed to blows, but Lady Belamour never raised her low silvery tones, and thus
increased the awfulness of her wrath and the impressiveness of her determination. Face to face
with her, there were few who did not cower under her displeasure; and poor Aurelia, resolute
to endure for her father's sake, could only promise implicit obedience.

She only guessed when the entered London by the louder rumbling, and for one moment the coach
paused as a horse was reined up near it, and with plumed hat in hand the rider bent forward
to the window, exclaiming, "Successful, by all that is lovely! Captured, by Jove!"

"You shall hear all another time," said lady Belamour. "Let us go on now."

They did so, but the horseman continued to flash across the windows, and when the coach, after
considerable delay, had entered the walled court, rumbled over the pavement, and stopped before
a closed door, he was still there. When, after much thundering, the door was opened, Aurelia
had a moment's glimpse of a splendid figure in gold and scarlet handing out Lady Belamour,
who stood talking with him on the steps of the house for some moments. Then, shrugging his
shoulders, he remounted, and cantered off, after which my Lady signed to Aurelia to alight,
and followed her into the hall.

"Madge," said Lady Belamour to the witch-like old woman who had admitted her, "this young lady
is to remain here. You will open a bedroom and sitting-room for her at the back of the house.
Let her be properly cared for, and go out in the court behind, but on no account approach the
front gates. Let no one know she is here."

Madge muttered some demands about supplies and payments, and Lady Belamour waved her to settle
them with Mrs. Loveday, turning meantime to the prisoner and saying, "There, child, you are
to remain here on your good behaviour. Do your best to merit my good will, so that I may overlook
what is past. Recollect, the least attempt to escape, or to hold intercourse with the young,
or the old, fool, and it shall be the worse with them and with your father."

Therewith she departed, followed by Loveday, leaving Aurelia standing in the middle of the
hall, the old hag gazing on her with a malignant leer. "Ho! ho'! So that's the way! He has
begun that work early, has he? What's your name, my lass? Oh, you need give yourself airs!
I cry you mercy," and she made a derisive curtsey.

Poor Aurelia, pride had less to do with her silence than absolute uncertainty what to call
herself. The wedding ring was on her finger, and she would not deny her marriage by calling
herself Delavie, but Belamour might be dangerous, and the prefix was likewise a difficulty,
so faltered, "You may call me Madam Aurelia."

"Madam Really. That's a queer name, but it will serve while you are here."

"Pray let me go to my room," entreated the poor prisoner, who felt as ineffable disgust at
her jailor, and was becoming sensible to extreme fatigue.

"Your room, hey? D'ye think I keep rooms and beds as though this were an inn, single-handed
as I am? You must wait, unless you be too fine to lend a hand."

"Anything will do," said Aurelia, "if I may only rest. I would help, but I am so much tired
that I can hardly stand."

"My Lady has given it to you well, Mistress Really or Mistress Falsely, which ever you may
be," mumbled Madge, perhaps in soliloquy, fumbling at the lock of a room which at last she
opened. It smelt very close and fusty, and most of the furniture was heaped together under
a cloth in the midst, dimly visible by the light of a heart-shaped aperture in the shutters.
Unclosing one of the leaves, the old woman admitted enough daylight to guide Aurelia to a couch
against the wall, saying, "You can wait there till I see to your bed. And you'll be wanting
supper too!" she added in a tone of infinite disgust.

"O never mind supper, if I can only go to bed," sighed Aurelia, sinking on the couch as the
old woman hobbled off. Lassitude and exhaustion had brought her to a state like annihilation--unable
to think or guess, hope or fear, with shoes hurting her footsore feet, a stiff dress cramping
her too much for sleep, and her weary aching eyes gathering a few impressions in a passive
way. On the walls hung dimly seen portraits strangely familiar to her. The man in a green dressing
gown with floating hair had a face she knew; so had the lady in the yellow ruff. And was that
not the old crest, the Delavie butterfly, with the motto, Ma Vie et ma Mie, carved on the mantelpiece?
Thus she knew that she must be in Delavie House, and felt somewhat less desolate as she recognised
several portraits as duplicates of those at the Great House at Carminster, and thought they
looked at her in pity with their eyes like her father's. The youngest son in the great family
group was, as she knew, an Amyas, and he put her in mind of her own. Oh, was he her own, when
she could not tell whether those great soft, dark-grey eyes that looked so kindly on her had
descended to the young baronet? She hoped not, for Harriet and she had often agreed that they
presaged the fate of that gallant youth, who had been killed by Sir Bevil Grenville's side.
He must have looked just as Sir Amyas did, lying senseless after the hurt she had caused.

No more definite nor useful thought passed through the brain of the overwearied maiden as she
rest on the couch, how long she knew not; but it was growing dark by the time Madge returned
with a guttering candle, a cracked plate and wedge of greasy-looking pie, a piece of dry bread,
a pewter cup of small beer, and an impaired repulsive steel knife with a rounded end, and fork
with broken prong. The fact of this being steel was not distressing to one who had never seen
a silver fork, but the condition of both made her shudder, and added to the sick sense of exhaustion
that destroyed her appetite. She took a little of the bread, and, being parched with thirst,
drank some of the beer before Madge came back again. "Oh ho, you're nice I see, my fine Dame
Really!"

"Thank you, indeed I can't eat, I am so much tired," said Aurelia apologetically.

"You'll have to put up with what serves your betters, I can tell you," was all the reply she
received. "Well be ye coming to your bed?"

So up the creaking stairs she was guided to a room, very unlike that fresh white bower at Bowstead,
large, eerie, ghostly-looking, bare save for a dark oak chest, and a bed of the same material,
the posts apparently absolute trees, squared and richly carved, and supporting a solid wooden
canopy with an immense boss as big as a cabbage, and carved something like one, depending from
the centre, as if to endanger the head of the unwary, who should start up in bed. No means
of ablution were provided, and Aurelia felt so grimed and dusty that she ventured to beg for
an ewer and basin; but her amiable hostess snarled out that she had enough to do without humouring
fiddle-faddle whimsies, and that she might wash at the pump if nothing else would serve her.

Aurelia wished she had known this before going up stairs, and, worn out as she was, the sense
implanted by her mother that it was wicked to go to sleep dirty, actually made her drag herself
down to a grim little scullery, where she was permitted to borrow a wooden bowl, since she
was too nice forsooth to wash down stairs. She carried it up with a considerable trouble more
than half full, and a bit of yellow soap and clean towel were likewise vouchsafed to her. The
wash--perhaps because of the infinite trouble it cost her--did her great good,--it gave her
energy to recollect her prayers and bring good angels about her. If this had been her first
plunge from home, when Jumbo's violin had so scared her, such a place as this would have almost
killed her; but the peace that had come to her in Sedhurst Church lingered still round her,
and as she climbed up into the lofty bed the verse sang in her ears "Love is strong as death."
Whether Love Divine or human she did not ask herself, but with the sense of soothing upon her,
she slept--and slept as a seventeen-years'-old frame will sleep after having been thirty-six
hours awake and afoot.

When she awoke it was with the sense of some one being in the room. "O gemini!" she heard,
and starting up, only just avoiding the knob, she saw Mrs. Loveday's well-preserved brunette
face gazing at her.

"Your servant, ma'am," she said. "You'll excuse me if I speak with you here, for I must be
back by the time my Lady's bell rings."

"Is it very late?" said Aurelia, taking from under her pillow her watch, which had stopped
long ago.

"Nigh upon ten o'clock," said Loveday. "I must not stay, but it is my Lady's wish that you
should have all that is comformable, and you'll let me know how Madge behaves herself."

"Is there any news from Bowstead?" was all Aurelia could at first demand.

"Not yet; but bless you, my dear young lady, you had best put all that matter out of your head
for ever and a day. I know what these young gentlemen are. They are not to be hearkened to
one moment, not the best of them. Let them be ever so much in earnest at the time, their parents
and guardians have the mastery of them sooner or later, and the farther it has gone, the worse
it is. I saw you lying asleep here looking so innocent that it went to my heart, and I heard
you mutter in your sleep 'Love is strong as death,' but that's only a bit of some play-book,
and don't you trust to it, for I never saw love that was stronger than a spider's web."

"Oh, hush, Mrs. Loveday. It is in the Bible!"

"You don't say so, ma'am," the woman said awestruck.

"I would show it you, only all my things are away. God is love, you know," said Aurelia, sitting
up with clasped hands, "and He gives it, so it must be strong."

"Well, all the love I've ever seen was more the devil's," said Loveday truly enough; "and you'll
find it so if you mean to trust to these fine young beaux and what they say."

Aurelia shook her head a little as she sat up in bed with her clasped hands; and there was
a look on her face that Mrs. Loveday did not understand, as she went on with her advice.

"So, my dear young lady, you see all that is left for you is to frame your mind to keep close
here, and conform to my Lady's will till all is blown over one way or another."

"I know that," said Aurelia.

"Don't' you do anything to anger her," added the waiting-woman, "for there's no one who can
stand against her; and I'll speak up for you when I can, for I know how to come round my Lady,
if any one does. Tell me what you want, and I'll get it for you; but don't try to get out,
and don't send Madge, for she is not to be trusted with money. If I were you, I'd not let her
see that watch, and I'd lock my door at night. You're too innocent, whatever my Lady may say.
Here's half a pound of tea and sugar, which you had best keep to yourself, and I've seen to
there being things decent down stairs. Tell me, my dear, is there anything you want? Your clothes,
did you say? Oh, yes, you shall have them--yes, and your books. Here's some warm water," as
a growling was heard at the door; "I must not wait till you are dressed, but there's a box
of shells down in your room that Mr. Wayland sent home for my Lady to line a grotto with, and
she wants them all sorted out. 'Tell her she must make herself of use if she wants to be forgiven,'
says my Lady, for she is in a mighty hurry for them now she has heard of the Duchess of Portland's
grotto; though she has let them lie here unpacked for this half year and more. So if they are
all done by night, maybe may Lady will be pleased to let you have a bit more liberty."

Mrs. Loveday departed, having certainly cheered the captive, and Aurelia rose, weary-limbed
and sad-hearted, with a patient trust in her soul that Love Divine would not fail her, and
that earthly love would do its best.

She found matters improved in the down-stairs room, the furniture was in order, a clean cloth
on the table, a white roll, butter, and above all clean bright implements, showing Mrs. Loveday's
influence. She ate and drank like a hungry girl, washed up for herself rather than let Madge
touch anything she could help, and looked from the window into a dull court of dreary, blighted-looking
turf divided by flagged walks, radiating from a statue in the middle, representing a Triton
blowing a conch--no doubt intended to spout water, for there was a stone trough round him,
but he had long forgotten his functions, and held a sparrow's nest with streaming straws in
his hand. This must be the prison-yard, where alone she might walk, since it lay at the back
of the house; and with a sense of depression she turned to the task that awaited her.

A very large foreign-looking case had been partly opened, and when she looked in she was appalled
at the task to be accomplished in one day. It was crammed with shells of every size and description,
from the large helmet-conch and Triton's trumpet, down to the tiny pink cowry and rice-volute,
all stuffed together without arrangement or packing, forming a mass in which the unbroken shells
reposed in a kind of sand, of debris ground together out of the victims; and when she took
up a tolerably-sized univalve, quantities of little ones came tumbling out of its inner folds.
She took up a handful, and presently picked out one perfect valve like a rose petal, three
fairy cups of limpets, four ribbed cowries, and a thing like a green pea. Of course she knew
no names, but a kind of interest was awakened by the beauty and variety before her. A pile
of papers had been provided, and the housewife [a pocket-size container for small articles
(as thread)--D.L.] which Betty made her always carry in her pocket furnished wherewithal to
make up a number of bags for the lesser sorts; and she went to work, her troubles somewhat
beguiled by the novel beauties of each delicate creature she disinterred, but remembering with
a pang how, if she could have described them to Mr. Belamour, he would have discoursed upon
the Order of Nature.

London noises were not the continuous roar of vehicles of the present day, but there was sound
enough to remind the country girl where she was, and the street cries "Old Clothes!" "Sprats,
oh!" "Sweep!" were heard over the wall, sometimes with tumultuous voices that seemed to enhance
her loneliness, as she sat on the floor, hour after hour, sifting out the entire shells, and
feeling a languid pleasure in joining the two halves of a bivalve, especially those lovely
sunset shells that have rosy rays diverging from their crimson hinge over their polished surface,
white, or just tinted with the hues of a daffodil sky. She never clasped a pair together without
a little half-uttered ejaculation, "Oh, bring me and my dear young love thus together again!"
And when she found a couple making a perfect heart, and holding together through all, she kissed
it tenderly in the hope that thus it might be with her and with him whose hand and whose voice
returned on her, calling her his dearest life!

She durst only quit the shells to eat the dinner which Madge served at one o'clock--a tolerable
meal of slices of cold beef from a cook's-shop, but seasoned with sour looks and a murmur at
ladies' fancies. The weariness and languor of the former day's exertions made her for the present
disinclined to explore the house, even had she had time, and when twilight came there could
have been little but fragments at the bottom of the case, though she could see no more to sort
them.

And what were these noises around her making her start? Rats! Yes, here they were, venturing
out from all the corners. They knew there had been food in the room. This was why Madge had
those to gaunt, weird-looking cats in her kitchen! Aurelia went and sat on the step into the
court to be out of their way, but Madge hunted her in that the door might be shut and barred;
and when she returned trembling to the sitting room, she heard such a scampering and a scrambling
that she durst not enter, and betook herself to her chamber and to bed.

Alas! that was no refuge. She had been too much tired to hear anything the night before, but
to-night there was scratching, nibbling, careering, fighting, squeaking, recoil and rally,
charge and rout, as the grey Hanover rat fought his successful battle with his black English
cousin all over the floors and stairs--nay, once or twice came rushing up and over the bed--frightening
its occupant almost out of her senses, as she cowered under the bed-clothes, not at all sure
that they would not proceed to eating her. Happily daylight came early. Aurelia, at its first
ray, darted across the room, starting in horror when she touched a soft thing with her bare
foot, opened the shutter, and threw open the casement. Light drove the enemy back to their
holes, and she had a few hours' sleep, but when Mrs. Loveday came to the room when she was
nearly dressed, she exclaimed, "Why, miss, you look paler than you did yesterday."

"The rats!" said Aurelia under her breath.

"Ah! the rats! Of course they are bad enough in an old desolate place like this. But you've
done the shells right beautiful, that I will say; and you may leave this house this very day
if you will only give your consent to what my Lady asks. You shall be sent down this very day
to Carminster, if so be you'll give up that ring of yours, and sign a paper giving up all claim
to be married to his Honour. See, here it is, all ready, in my Lady's letter."

"I cannot," said Aurelia, with her hands behind her.

"You can read my Lady's letter," said Loveday; "that can do you no harm."

Aurelia felt she must do that at least.

  "CHILD,

      "I will overlook your Transgression on the One Condition, that
you sign this Paper and send it with your so-called Wedding Ring back
to me immediately. Otherwise you must take the Consequences, and remain
where you are till after my Son's Marriage.

                                              "URANIA BELAMOUR."

The paper was a formal renunciation of all rights or claims from the fictitious marriage by
which she had been deceived, and an absolute pledge never to renew any contract with Sir Amyas
Belamour, Knight Baronet, who had grossly played on her.

"No, I cannot," said Aurelia, pushing it from her.

"Indeed, miss, I would not persuade you to it if it were not for your own good; but you may
be sure it is no use holding out against her Ladyship. If you sign it now, and give it up honourable,
she will send Mr. Dove home with you, and there you'll be as if nothing had been amiss, no
one knowing nothing about it; but if you persist it will not make the marriage a bit more true,
and you will only be kept moped up in this dismal place till his Honour is married, and there's
no saying what worse my Lady may do to you."

Another night of rats came up before Aurelia's imagination in contrast with the tender welcome
at home; but the white face and the tones that had exclaimed, "Madam, what are you doing to
my wife?" arose and forbade her. She would not fail him. So she said firmly once more, "No,
Mrs. Loveday, I cannot. I do not know what lawyers may say, but I feel myself bound to Sir
Amyas, and I will not break my vow--God helping me," she added under breath.

"You must write it to her ladyship then. She will never take such a message through me. Here
is paper and pen that I brought, in hopes that you would be wise and submit for your honoured
father's sake."

"My father cannot be persecuted for what he has nothing to do with," said Aurelia, with the
gentle dignity that had grown on her since her troubles. And taking the pen, she wrote her
simple refusal, signing it Aurelia Belamour.

"As you please, ma'am," said Mrs. Loveday, "but I have my Lady's orders to bring this paper
every day till you sign it, and it would be better for you if you would do it at once."

Aurelia only shook her head, and asked if Mrs. Loveday had seen that she had finished sorting
the shells. Yes; and as she was now dressed they went down together to the sitting-room. The
shutters were still closed, Madge would not put a hand to the room except on the compulsion,
and Aurelia's enemies had left evidence of their work; not only was the odour of the room like
that of a barn, but the paper bags had in some cases been bitten through, and the shells scattered
about, and of the loaf and butter which Aurelia had left on a high shelf in the cupboard nothing
remained but a few fragments.

Loveday was very much shocked, all the more when Aurelia quietly said she should not mind it
so much if the rats would only stay down stairs, and not run over her in bed.

"Yet you will not sign the paper."

"I cannot," again said Aurelia.

"My stars, I never could abear rats! Why they fly at one's throat sometimes!"

"I hope God will take care of me," said Aurelia, in a trembling voice. "He did last night."

Loveday began a formal leave-taking curtsey, but presently turned back. "There now," she said,
"I cannot do it, I couldn't sleep a wink for thinking of you among the rats! Look here, I shall
send a porter to bring away those shells if you'll make up their bags again that the nasty
vermin have eaten, and there's a little terrier dog about the place that no one will miss,
he shall bring it down, and depend upon it, the rats won't venture near it."

"Oh! thank you, Mrs. Loveday, how good you are!"

"Ah, don't then! If you could say that my dear!"

Mrs. Loveday hurried away, and after breakfasting, Aurelia repaired the ravages of the rats,
and made a last sorting of the residuum of shell dust, discovering numerous minute beauties,
which awoke in her the happy thought of the Creator's individual love.

She had not yet finished before Madge's voice was heard in querulous anger, and a heavy tread
came along with her. A big man, who could have carried ten times the weight of the box of shells,
came in with a little white dog with black ears, under his arm.

"There," said the amiable guardian of the house, "that smart madam says that it's her ladyship's
pleasure you should have that little beast to keep down the rats. As if my cats was not enough!
But mind you, Madam Really, if so be he meddles with my cats, it will be the worse for him."

The porter took up the box, and departed, and Aurelia was left with her new companion sniffing
all round the room, much excited by the neighbourhood of his natural enemies. However, he obeyed
her call, and let her make friends, and read the name on the brass plate upon his collar. When
she read "Sir A. Belamour, Bart.," she took the little dog in her arms and kissed it's white head.

Being fairly rested, and having no task to accomplish, she felt the day much longer, though
less solitary, in the companionship of the dog, to whom she whispered many fond compliments,
and vain questions as to his name. With him at her heels and Madge and her cats safely shut
into the kitchen, she took courage to wander about the dull court, and then to explore the
mansion and try to get a view from the higher windows, in case they were not shuttered up like
the lower ones. The emptiness of Bowstead was nothing to this, and she smiled to herself at
having thought herself a prisoner there.

Most of the rooms were completely dismantled, or had only ghastly rags of torn leather or tapestry
hanging to their walls. The upper windows, however, were merely obscured by dust and cobwebs.
Her own bedroom windows only showed the tall front of an opposite house, but climbing to the
higher storey, she could see at the back over the garden wall the broad sheet of the Thames,
covered with boats and wherries, and the banks provided with steps and stairs, at the opening
of every street on the opposite side, where she beheld a confused mass of trees, churches,
and houses. Nearer, the view to the westward was closed in by a stately edifice which she did
not know to be Somerset House; and from another window on the east side of the house she saw,
over numerous tiled roofs, a gateway which she guessed to be Temple Bar, and a crowded thoroughfare,
where the people looked like ants, toiling towards the great dome that rose in the misty distance.
Was this the way she was to see London?

Coming down with a lagging step, she met Madge's face peering up. "Humph! there you be, my
fine miss! No gaping after sweethearts from the window, or it will be the worse for you."

The terrier growled, as having already adopted his young lady's defence, and Aurelia, dreading
a perilous explosion of his zeal in her cause, hurried him into her parlour.

CHAPTER XXXI. THE SECOND TASK.

                       Hope no more,
    Since thou art furnished with hidden lore,
    To 'scape thy due reward if any day
    Without some task accomplished passed away.
                                               MOORE.

The little dog's presence was a comfort, but his night of combat and scuffling was not a restful
one and the poor prisoner's sickness of heart and nervous terrors grew upon her every hour,
with misgivings lest she should be clinging to a shadow, and sacrificing her return to Betty's
arms for a phantom. There were moments when her anguish of vague terror and utter loneliness
impelled her to long to sign her renunciation that moment; and when she thought of recurring
hours and weeks of such days and such nights her spirit quailed within her, and Loveday might
have found her less calmly steadfast had she come in the morning.

She did not come, and this in itself was a disappointment, for at least she brought a human
voice and a pitying countenance which, temptress though she might be, had helped to bear Aurelia
through the first days. Oh! could she but find anything to do! She had dusted her two rooms
as well as she could consistently with care for the dress she could not change. She blamed
herself extremely for having forgotten her Bible and Prayer-book when hastily making up her
bundle of necessaries, and though there was little chance that Madge should possess either,
or be able to read, she nerved herself to ask. "Bible! what should ye want of a Bible, unless
to play the hypocrite? I hain't got none!" was the reply.

So Aurelia could only walk up and down the court trying to repeat the Psalms, and afterwards
the poetry she had learnt for Mr. Belamour's benefit, sometimes deriving comfort from the promises,
but oftener wondering whether he had indeed deserted her in anger at her distrustful curiosity.
She tried to scrape the mossgrown Triton, she crept up stairs to the window that looked towards
the City, and cleared off some of the dimness, and she got a needle and thread and tried to
darn the holes in the curtains and cushions, but the rotten stuff crumbled under her fingers,
and would not hold the stitches. At last she found in a dusty corner a boardless book with
neither beginning nor end, being Defoe's Plague of London. She read and read with a horrid
fascination, believing every word of it, wondering whether this house could have been infected,
and at length feeling for the plague spot!

A great church-clock enabled her to count the hours! Oh, how many there were of them! How many
more would there be? This was only her second day, and deliverance could not come for weeks,
were her young husband--if husband he were--ever so faithful. How should she find patience
in this dreariness, interspersed with fits of alarm lest he should be dangerously ill and suffering?
She fell on her knees and prayed for him and for herself!

Here it was getting dark again, and Madge would hunt her in presently and shut the shutters.
Hark! what was that? A bell echoing over the house! Madge came after her. "Where are you, my
fine mistress! Go you into the parlour, I say," and she turned the key upon the prisoner, whose
heart beat like a bird fluttering in a cage. Suddenly her door was opened, and in darted Fidelia
and Lettice, who flung themselves upon her with ecstatic shrieks of "Cousin Aura, dear cousin
Aura!" Loveday was behind, directing the bringing in of trunks from a hackney coach. All she
said was, "My Lady's daughters are to be with you for the night, madam; I must not say more,
for her ladyship is waiting for me."

She was gone, while the three were still in the glad tangle of an embrace beginning again and
again, with all sorts of little exclamations from the children, into which Aurelia broke with
the inquiry for their brother. "He is much better," said Fay. "He is to get up to-morrow, and
then he will come and find you."

"Have you seen him?"

"Oh, yes, and he says it is Sister Aura, and not Cousin Aura--"

"My dear, dear little sisters--" and she hugged them again.

"I was sitting upon his bed," said Letty, "and we were all talking about you when my Lady mamma
came. Are mothers kinder than Lady mammas?"

"Was she angry?" asked Aurelia.

"Oh! she frightened me," said Fay. "She said we were pert, forward misses, and we must hold
our tongues, for we should be whipped if we ever said you name, Cousin--Sister Aura, again;
and she would not let us go to wish Brother Amyas good-bye this morning."

Aurelia's heart could not but leap with joy that her tyrant should have failed in carrying
to Bowstead the renunciation of the marriage. Whether Lady Belamour meant it or not, she had
made resistance much easier by the company of Faith and Hope, if only for a single night. She
gathered from their prattle that their mother, having found that their talk with their brother
was all of the one object of his thoughts, had carried them off summarily, and had been since
driving about London in search of a school at which to leave them; but they were too young
for Queen's Square, and there was no room at another house at which Lady Belamour had applied.
She would not take them home, being, of course, afraid of their tongues, and in her perplexity
had been reduced to letting them share Aurelia's captivity at least for the night.

What joy it was! They said it was an ugly dark house, but Aurelia's presence was perfect content
to them, and theirs was to her comparative felicity, assuring her as they did, through their
childish talk, of Sir Amyas's unbroken love and of Mr. Belamour's endeavours to find her. What
mattered it that Madge was more offended than ever, and refused to make the slightest exertion
for "the Wayland brats at that time of night" without warning. They had enough for supper,
and if Aurelia had not, their company was worth much more to her than a full meal. The terrier's
rushes after rats were only diversion now, and when all three nestled together in the big bed,
the fun was more delightful than ever. Between those soft caressing creatures Aurelia heard
no rats, and could well bear some kicks at night, and being drummed awake at some strange hour
in the morning.

Mrs. Loveday arrive soon after the little party had gone down stairs. She said the children
were to remain until her ladyship had decided where to send them; and she confirmed their report
that his Honour was recovering quickly. As soon as he was sufficiently well to leave Bowstead
he was to be brought to London, and married to Lady Arabella before going abroad to make the
grand tour; and as a true well-wisher, Mrs. Loveday begged Miss Delavie not to hold out when
it was of no use, for her Ladyship declared that her contumacy would be the worse for her.
Aurelia's garrison was, however, too well reinforced for any vague alarms to shake even her
out works, and she only smiled her refusal, as in truth Mrs. Loveday must have expected, for
it appeared that she had secured a maid to attend on the prisoners; an extremely deaf woman,
who only spoke in the broken imperfect mode of those who have never heard their own voice,
deficiencies that made it possible that Madge would keep the peace with her.

Lady Belamour had also found another piece of work for Aurelia. A dark cupboard was opened,
revealing shelves piled with bundle of old letters and papers. There was a family tradition
that one of the ladies of the Delavie family had been an attendant of Mary of Scotland for
a short time, and had received from her a recipe for preserving the complexion and texture
of the skin, devised by the French Court perfumer. Nobody had ever seen this precious prescription;
but it was presumed to be in the archives of the family, and her ladyship sent word that if
Miss Delavie wished to deserve her favour she would put her French to some account and discover it.

A severe undertaking it was. Piles of yellow letters, files of dusty accounts, multitudes of
receipts, more than one old will had to be conned it was possible to be certain they were not
the nostrum. In the utter solitude, even this occupation would have been valuable, but with
the little girls about her, and her own and their property, she had alternative employments
enough to make it an effort to apply herself to this.

Why should she? she asked herself more than once; but then came the recollection that if she
showed herself willing to obey and gratify my Lady, it might gain her good will, and if Sir
Amyas should indeed hold out till Mr. Wayland came home--Her heart beat wildly at the vision
of hope.

She worked principally at the letters, after the children had gone to bed, taking a packet
up stairs with her, and sitting in the bedroom, deciphering them as best she might by the light
of the candles that Loveday had brought her.

Every morning Loveday appeared with supplies, and messages from her Ladyship, that it was time
Miss submitted; but she was not at all substantially unkind, and showed increasing interest
in her captive, though always impressing on her that her obstinacy was all in vain. My Lady
was angered enough at his Honour having got up from his sick bed and gone off to Carminster,
and if Miss did not wish to bring her father into trouble she must yield. No, this gladdened
rather than startled Aurelia, though her heart sank within her when she was warned that Mr.
Wayland had been taken by the corsairs, so that my Lady would have the ball at her own foot
now. The term of waiting seemed indefinitely prolonged.

The confinement to the dingy house and courtyard was trying to all three, who had been used
to run about in the green park and breezy fields; but Aurelia did her best to keep her little
companions happy and busy, and the sense of the insecurity of her tenure of their company aided
her the more to meet with good temper and sweetness the various rubs incidental to their captivity
in this close warm house in the hottest of summer weather. The pang she had felt at her own
fretfulness, when she thought she had lost them, made her guard the more against giving way
to impatience if they were troublesome or hard to please. Indeed, she was much more gentle
and equable now, in the strength of her resolution, than she had been when uplifted by her
position, yet doubtful of its mysteries.

Sundays were the most trying time. The lack of occupation in the small space was wearisome,
and Aurelia's heart often echoed the old strains of Tate and Brady,

                   I sigh whene'er my musing thoughts
                     Those happy days present,
                   When I with troops of pious friends
                     Thy temple did frequent.

She and her charges climbed up to the window above, which happily had a broken pane, tried
to identify the chimes of the church bells by the notable nursery rhyme,

                   Oranges and lemons,
                   Say the bells of St. Clements, &c.,

watched the church-goers as far as they could see them, and then came down to such reading
of the service and other Sunday occupations as Aurelia could devise. On the Sunday of her durance
it was such a broiling day that, unable to bear the heat of her parlour, she established herself
and her charges in a nook of the court, close under the window, but shaded by the wall, which
was covered with an immense bush of overhanging ivy, and by the elm tree in the court. Here
she made Fay and Letty say their catechism, and the Psalm she had been teaching them in the
week, and then rewarded them with a Bible story, that of Daniel in the den of lions. Once or
twice the terrier (whose name she had learnt was Bob) had pricked his ears, and the children
had thought there was a noise, but the sparrows in the ivy might be accountable for a great
deal, and the little ones were to much wrapped in her tale to be attentive to anything else.

"Then it came true!" said Letty. "His God Whom he trusted did deliver him out of the den of lions?"

"God always does deliver people when they trust Him," said Fay, with gleaming eyes.

"Yes, one way or the other," said Aurelia.

"How do you think He will deliver us?" asked Letty; "for I am sure this is a den, though there
are no lions."

"I do not know how," said Aurelia, "but I know He will bear us through it as long as we trust
Him and do nothing wrong," and she looked up at the bright sky with hope and strength in her face.

"Hark! what's that?" cried Letty, and Bob leapt up and barked as a great sob became plainly
audible, and within the room appeared Mrs. Loveday, her face all over tears, which she was
fast wiping away as she rose up from crouching with her head against the window-sill.

"I beg your pardon, ma'am," said she, her voice still broken when she rejoined them, "but I
would not interrupt you, so I waited within; and oh, it was so like my poor old mother at home,
it quite overcame me! I did not think there was anything so near the angels left on earth."

"Nay, Loveday," said Fay, apprehending the words in a different sense, "the angels are just
as near us as ever they were to Daniel, only we cannot see them. Are they not, Cousin Aura?"

"Indeed they are, and we may be as sure that they will shut the lions' mouths," said Aurelia.

"Ah! may they," sighed Loveday, who had by this time mastered her agitation, and remembered
that she must discharge herself of her messages, and return hastily to my Lady's toilette.

"I have found the recipe," said Aurelia. "Here it is." And she put into Loveday's hand a yellow
letter, bearing the title in scribbled writing, "Poure Embellire et blanchire la Pel, de part
de Maistre Raoul, Parfumeur de la Royne Catherine."

CHAPTER XXXII. LIONS.

    The helmet of darkness Pallas donned,
    To hide her presence from the sight of man.
                                           Derby's HOMER.

The next morning Loveday returned with orders from Lady Belamour that Miss Delavie should translate
the French recipe, and make a fair copy of it. It was not an easy task, for the MS. was difficult
and the French old; whereas Aurelia lived on the modern side of the Acadamie, her French was
that of Fenelon and Racine.

However, she went to work as best she could in her cool corner, guessing at many of the words
by lights derived from Comenius, and had just made out that the chief ingredients were pounded
pearls and rubies, mixed with white of eggs laid by pullets under a year old, during the waxing
of the April moon, when she heard voices chattering in the hall, and a girlish figure appeared
in a light cloak and calash, whom Loveday seemed to be guiding, and yet keeping as much repressed
as she could.

"Gracious Heavens!" were the first words to be distinguished; "what a frightful old place;
enough to make one die of the dismals! I won't live here when I'm married, I promise Sir Amyas!
Bless me, is this the wench?"

"Your Ladyship promised to be careful," entreated Loveday, while Aurelia rose, with a graceful
gesture of acknowledgment, which, however remained unnoticed, the lady apparently considering
herself unseen.

"Who are these little girls?" asked she, in a giggling whisper. "Little Waylands? Then it is
true," she cried, with a peal of shrill laughter. "There are three of them, only Lady Belamour
shuts them up like kittens--I wonder she did not. Oh, what sport! Won't I tease her now that
I know her secret!"

"Your ladyship!" intreated Loveday in distress in an audible aside, "you will undo me." Then
coming forward, she said, "You did not expect me at this hour, madam; but if your French copy
be finished, my Lady would like to have it at once."

"I have written it out once as well as I could," said Aurelia, "but I have not translated it;
I will find the copy."

She rose and found the stranger full before her in the doorway, gazing at her with an enormous
pair of sloe-black eyes, under heavy inky brows, set in a hard, red-complexioned face. She
burst into a loud, hoydenish laugh as Loveday tried to stammer something about a friend of her own.

"Never mind, the murder's out, good Mrs. Abigail," she cried, "it is me. I was determined to
see the wench that has made such a fool of young Belamour. I vow I can't guess what he means
by it. Why, you are a poor pale tallow-candle, without a bit of colour in your face. Look at
me! Shall you ever have such a complexion as mine, with ever so much rouge?"

"I think not," said Aurelia, with one look at the peony face.

"Do you know who I am, miss? I am the Lady Bella Mar. The Countess of Aresfield is my mamma.
I shall have Battlefield when she dies, and twenty thousand pounds on my wedding day. The Earl
of Aresfield and Colonel Mar are my brothers, and a wretched little country girl like you is
not to come between me and what my mamma has fixed for me; so you must give it up at once,
for you see he belongs to me."

"Not yet, madam," said Aurelia.

"What do you say? Do you pretend that your masquerade was worth a button?"

"That is not my part to decide," said Aurelia. "I am bound by it, and have no power to break it."

"You mean the lawyers! Bless you, they will never give it to you against me! You'd best give
it up at once, and if you want a husband, my mamma has one ready for you."

"I thank her ladyship," said Aurelia, with simple dignity, "but I will not give her the trouble."

She glanced at her wedding ring, and so did Lady Belle, who screamed, "You've the impudence
to wear that! Give it to me."

"I cannot," repeated Aurelia.

"You cannot, you insolent, vulgar, low"--

"Hush! hush, my lady," entreated Loveday. "Come away, I beg of your ladyship!"

"Not till I have made that impudent hussy give me that ring," cried Belle, stamping violently.
"What's that you say?"

"That your ladyship asks what is impossible," said Aurelia, firmly.

"Take that then, insolent minx!" cried the girl, flying forward and violently slapping Aurelia's
soft cheeks, and making a snatch at her hair.

Loveday screamed, Letty cried, but Fidelia and Bob both rushed forward to Aurelia's defence,
one with her little fists clenched, beating Lady Belle back, the other tearing at her skirts
with his teeth. At that moment a man's step was heard, and a tall, powerful officer was among
them, uttering a fierce imprecation. "You little vixen, at your tricks again," he said, taking
Belle by the waist, while she kicked and screamed in vain. She was like an angry cat in his
arms. "Be quiet, Belle," he said, backing into the sitting-room. "Let Loveday compose your
dress. Recover your senses and I shall take you home: I wish it was to the whipping you deserve."

He thrust her in, waved aside Loveday's excuses about her ladyship not being denied, and stood
with his back to the door as she bounced shrieking against it from within.

"I fear this little devil has hurt you, madam," he said.

"Not at all, I thank you, sire." said Aurelia, though one side of her face still tingled.

"She made at you like a little game-cock," he said. "I am glad I was in time. I followed when
I found she had slipped away from Lady Belamour's, knowing that her curiosity is only equalled
by her spite. By Jove, it is well that her nails did not touch that angel face!"

Aurelia could only curtsey and thank him, hoping within herself that Lady Belle would soon
recover, and wondering how he had let himself in. There was something in his manner of examining
her with his eyes that made her supremely uncomfortable. He uttered fashionable expletives
of admiration under his breath, and she turned aside in displeasure, bending down to Fidelia.
He went on, "You must be devilishly moped in this dungeon of a place! Cannot we contrive something
better?"

"Thank you, sir, I have no complaint to make. Permit me to see whether the Lady Arabella is
better."

"I advise you not. Those orbs are too soft and sparkling to be exposed to her talons. 'Pon
my honour, I pity young Belamour. But there is no help for it, and such charms ought not to
be wasted in solitude on his account. These young lads are as fickle as the weather-cock, and
have half-a-dozen fancies in as many weeks. Come now, make me your friend, and we will hit
on some device for delivering the enchanted princess from her durance vile."

"Thank you, sir, I promised Lady Belamour to make no attempt to escape."

At that moment out burst Lady Belle, shouting with laughter: "Ho! ho! Have I caught you, brother,
gallanting away with Miss? What will my lady say? Pretty doings!"

She had no time for more. Her brother fiercely laid hold of her, and bore her away with a peremptory
violence that she could not resist, and only turning at the hall door to make one magnificent bow.

Loveday was obliged to follow, and the children were left clinging to Aurelia and declaring
that the dreadful young lady was as bad as the lions; while Aurelia, glowing with shame and
resentment at what she felt as insults, had a misgiving that her protector had been the worse
lion of the two.

She had no explanation of the invasion till the next morning, when Loveday appeared full of
excuses and apologies. From the fact of Lady Aresfield's carriage having been used on Aurelia's
arrival, her imprisonment was known, and Lady Belle, spending a holiday at Lady Belamour's,
had besieged Loveday with entreaties to take her to see her rival. As the waiting-woman said,
for fear of the young lady's violent temper, but more probably in consideration of her bribes,
she had yielded, hoping that Lady Belle would be satisfied with a view from the window, herself
unseen. However, from that moment all had been taken out of the hands of Loveday, and she verily
believed the Colonel had made following his sister an excuse for catching a sight of Miss Delavie,
for he had been monstrously smitten even with the glimpse he had had of her in the carriage.
And now, as his sister had cut short what he had to say, he had written her a billet. And Loveday
held out a perfumed letter.

Aurelia's eyes flashed, and she drew herself up: "You forget, Loveday, I promised to receive
no letters!"

"Bless me, ma'am, they, that are treated as my lady treats you, are not bound to be so particular
as that."

"O fie, Loveday," said Aurelia earnestly, "you have been so kind, that I thought you would
be faithful. This is not being faithful to your lady, nor to me."

"It is only from my wish to serve you, ma'am," said Loveday in her fawning voice. "How can
I bear to see a beautiful young lady like you, that ought to be the star of all the court,
mewed up here for the sake of a young giddy pate like his Honour, when there's one of the first
gentlemen in the land ready to be at your feet?"

"For shame! for shame!" exclaimed Aurelia, crimson already. "You know I am married."

"And you will not take the letter, nor see what the poor gentleman means? May be he wants to
reconcile you with my lady, and he has power with her."

Aurelia took the letter, and, strong paper though it was, tore it across and across till it
was all in fragments, no bigger than daisy flowers. "There," she said, "you may tell him what
I have done to his letter."

Loveday stared for a minute, then exclaimed, "You are in the right, my dear lady. Oh, I am
a wretch--a wretch--" and she went away sobbing.

Aurelia hoped the matter was ended. It had given her a terrible feeling of insecurity, but
she found to her relief that Madge was really more trustworthy than Loveday. She overheard
from the court a conversation at the back door in which Madge was strenuously refusing admission
to some one who was both threatening and bribing her, all in vain; but she was only beginning
to breathe freely when Loveday brought, not another letter, but what was less easy to stop,
a personal message from "that poor gentleman."

"Loveday, after what you said yesterday, how can you be so--wicked?" said Aurelia.

"Indeed, miss, 'tis only as your true well-wisher."

Aurelia turned away to leave the room.

"Yes, it is, ma'am! On my bended knees I will swear it," cried Loveday, throwing herself on
them and catching her dress. "It is because I know my lady has worse in store for you!"

"Nothing can be worse than wrong-doing," said Aurelia.

"Ah! you don't know. Now, listen, one moment. I would not--indeed I would not--if I did not
know that he meant true and honourable--as he does, indeed he does. He is madder after you
then ever he was for my lady, for he says you have all her beauty, and freshness and simplicity
besides. He is raving. And you should never leave me, indeed you should not, miss, if you slipped
out after me in Deb's muffler--and we'd go to the Fleet. I have got a cousin there, poor fellow--he
is always in trouble, but he is a real true parson notwithstanding, and I'd never leave your
side till the knot was tied fast. Then you would laugh at my lady, and be one of the first
ladies in the land, for my Lord Aresfield is half a fool, and can't live long, and when you
are a countess you will remember your poor Loveday."

"Let me go. You have said too much to a married woman," said Aurelia, and as the maid began
the old demonstrations of the invalidity of the marriage, and the folly of adhering to it when
nobody knew where his honour was gone, she said resolutely, "I shall write to Lady Belamour
to send me a more trustworthy messenger."

On this Loveday fairly fell on the floor, grovelling in her wild entreaty that my Lady might
hear nothing of this, declaring that it was not so much for the sake of the consequences to
herself as to the young lady, for there was no guessing what my lady might not be capable of
if she guessed at Colonel Mar's admiration of her prisoner. Aurelia, frightened at her violence,
finally promised not to appeal to her ladyship as long as Loveday abstained from transmitting
his messages, but on the least attempt on her part to refer to him, a complaint should certainly
be made to my lady.

"Very well, madam," said Loveday, wiping her eyes. "I only hope it will not be the worse for
you in the end, and that you will not wish you had listened to poor Loveday's advice."

"I can never wish to have done what I know to be a great sin," said Aurelia gravely.

"Ah! you little know!" said Loveday, shaking her head sadly and ominously.

Something brought to Aurelia's lips what she had been teaching the children last Sunday, and
she answered,

"My God, in Whom I have trusted, is able to deliver me out of the mouth of lions, and He will
deliver me out of thy hand."

"Oh! if ever there were one whom He should deliver!" broke out Loveday, and again she went
away weeping bitterly.

Aurelia could not guess what the danger the woman threatened could be; so many had been mentioned
as possible. A forcible marriage, incarceration in some lonely country place, a vague threat
of being taken beyond seas to the plantation--all these had been mentioned; but she was far
more afraid of Colonel Mar forcing his way in and carrying her off, and this kept her constantly
in a state of nervous watchfulness, always listening by day and hardly able to sleep by night.

Once she had a terrible alarm, on a Sunday. Letty came rushing to her, declaring that Jumbo,
dear Jumbo, and a gentleman were in the front court. Was it really Jumbo? Come and see! No,
she durst not, and Fay almost instantly declared that Madge had shut them out. The children
both insisted that Jumbo it was, but Aurelia would not believe that it could be anything but
an attempt of her enemies. She interrogated Madge, who had grown into a certain liking for
one so submissive and inoffensive. Madge shook her head, could not guess how such folks had
got into the court, was sure they were after no good, and declared that my Lady should hear
of all the strange doings, and the letters that had been left with her. Oh, no, she knew better
than to give them, but my Lady should see them.

CHAPTER XXXIII. THE COSMETIC.

    But one more task I charge thee with to-day,
    For unto Proserpine then take thy way,
    And give this golden casket to her hands.
                                               MORRIS.

Late on that Sunday afternoon, a muffled and masked figure came through the house into the
court behind, and after the first shock Aurelia was relieved to see that it was too tall, and
moved too gracefully, to belong to Loveday.

"Why, child, what a colour you have!" said Lady Belamour, taking off her mask. "You need no
aids to nature at your happy age. That is right, children," as they curtsied and kissed her
hand. "Go into the house, I wish to speak with your cousin."

Lady Belamour's unfailing self-command gave her such dignity that she seemed truly a grand
and majestic dame dispensing justice, and the gentle, shrinking Aurelia like a culprit on trial
before her.

"You have been here a month, Aurelia Delavie. Have you come to your senses, and are you ready
to sign this paper?"

"No, madam, I cannot."

"Silly fly; you are as bent as ever on remaining in the web in which a madman and a foolish
boy have involved you?"

"I cannot help it, madam."

"Oh! I thought," and her voice became harshly clear, though so low, "that you might have other
schemes, and be spreading your toils at higher game."

"Certainly not, madam."

"Your colour shows that you understand, in spite of all your pretences."

"I have never used any pretences, my lady," said Aurelia, looking up in her face with clear
innocent eyes.

"You have had no visitors? None!"

"None, madam, except once when the Lady Arabella Mar forced her way in, out of curiosity, I
believe, and her brother followed to take her away."

"Her brother? You saw him?" Each word came out edged like a knife from between her nearly closed
lips.

"Yes, madam."

"How often?"

"That once."

"That has not hindered a traffic in letters."

"Not on my side, madam. I tore to fragments unread the only one that I received. He had no
right to send it!"

"Certainly not. You judge discreetly, Miss Delavie. In fact you are too transcendent a paragon
to be retained here." Then, biting her lip, as if the bitter phrase had escaped unawares, she
smiled blandly and said, "My good girl, you have merited to be returned to your friends. You
may pack your mails and those of the children!"

Aurelia shuddered with gladness, but Lady Belamour checked her thanks by continuing, "One service
you must first do for me. My perfumer is at a loss to understand your translation of the recipe
for Queen Mary's wash. I wish you to read and explain it to her."

"Certainly, madam."

"She lives near Greenwich Park," continued Lady Belamour, "and as I would not have the secret
get abroad, I shall send a wherry to take you to the place early to-morrow morning. Can you
be ready by eight o'clock?"

Aurelia readily promised, her heart bounding at the notion of a voyage down the river after
her long imprisonment and at the promise of liberty! She thought her husband must still be
true to her, since my lady would have been the first to inform her of his defection, and as
long as she had her ring and her certificate, she could feel little doubt that her father would
be able to establish her claims. And oh! to be with him and Betty once more!

She was ready in good time, and had spent her leisure in packing. When Loveday appeared, she
was greeted with a petition that the two little girls might accompany her; but this was refused
at once, and the waiting-maid added in her caressing, consoling tone that Mrs. Dove was coming
with their little brother and sister to take them a drive into the country. They skipped about
with glee, following Aurelia to the door of the court, and promising her posies of honeysuckles
and roses, and she left her dear love with them for Amoret and Nurse Dove.

At the door was a sedan chair, in which Aurelia was carried to some broad stone stairs, beside
which lay a smartly-painted, trim-looking boat with four stout oarsmen. She was handed into
the stern, Loveday sitting opposite to her. The woman was unusually silent, and could hardly
be roused to reply to Aurelia's eager questions as she passed the gardens of Lincoln's Inn,
saw St. Paul's rise above her, shot beneath the arch of London Bridge, and beheld the massive
walls of the Tower with its low-browed arches opening above their steps. Whenever a scarlet
uniform came in view, how the girl's eyes strained after it, thinking of one impossible, improbable
chance of a recognition! Once or twice she thought of a far more terrible chance, and wondered
whether Lady Belamour knew how little confidence could be placed in Loveday; but she was sure
that their expedition was my lady's own device, and the fresh air and motion, with all the
new scenes, were so delightful to her that she could not dwell on any alarms.

On, on, Redriffe, as the watermen named Rotherhithe, was on one bank, the marshes of the Isle
of Dogs were gay with white cotton-grass and red rattle on the other. Then came the wharves
and building yards of Deptford, and beyond them rose the trees of Greenwich Park, while the
river below exhibited a forest of masts. The boat stopped at a landing-place to a little garden,
with a sanded path, between herbs and flowers. "This is Mistress Darke's," said Loveday, and
as a little dwarfish lad came to the gate, she said, "We would speak with your mistress."

"On your own part?'

"From the great lady in Hanover Square."

The lad came down to assist in their landing, and took them up the path to a little cupboard
of a room, scented with a compound of every imaginable perfume. Bottles of every sort of essence,
pomade, and cosmetic were ranged on shelves, or within glass doors, interspersed with masks,
boxes for patches, bunches of false hair, powder puffs, curling-irons, and rare feathers. An
alembic [a device used in distillation--D.L.] was in the fireplace, and pen and ink, in a strangely-shaped
standish, were on the table. Altogether there was something uncanny about the look and air
of the room which made Aurelia tremble, especially as she perceived that Loveday was both frightened
and distressed.

The mistress of the establishment speedily appeared. She had been a splendid Jewish beauty,
and still in middle age, had great owl-like eyes, and a complexion that did her credit to her
arts; but there was something indescribably repulsive in her fawning, deferential curtsey,
as she said, in a flattering tone, with a slightly foreign accent, "The pretty lady is come,
as our noble dame promised, to explain to the poor Cora Darke the great queen's secret! Ah!
how good it is to have learning. What would not my clients give for such a skin as hers! And
I have many more, and greater than you would think, come to poor Cora's cottage. There was
a countess here but yesterday to ask how to blanch the complexion of miladi her daughter, who
is about to wed a young baronet, beautiful as Love. Bah! I might as well try to whiten a clove
gillyflower! Yet what has not nature done for this lovely miss?"

"Shall I read you the paper?" said Aurelia, longing to end this part of the affair.

"Be seated, fair and gracious lady."

Aurelia tried to wave aside a chair, but Mrs. Darke, on the plea of looking over the words
as she read, got her down upon a low couch, putting her own stout person and hooked face in
unpleasant proximity, while she asked questions, and Aurelia mentioned her own conjectures
on the obsolete French of the recipe, while she perceived, to her alarm, that the woman understood
the technical terms much better than she did, and that her ignorance could have been only an
excuse.

At last it was finished, and she rose, saying it was time to return to the boat.

"Nay, madam, that cannot be yet," said Loveday; "the watermen are gone to rest and dine, and
we must wait for the tide to shoot the bridge."

"Then pray let us go out and walk in Greenwich Park," exclaimed Aurelia, longing to escape
from this den.

"The sweet young lady will take something in the meantime?" said Mrs. Darke.

"I thank you, I have breakfasted," said Aurelia.

"My Lady intended us to eat here," said Loveday in an undertone to her young lady, as their
hostess bustled out. "She will make it good to Mrs. Darke."

"I had rather go to the inn--I have money--or sit in the park," she added as Loveday looked
as if going to the inn were an improper proposal. "Could we not buy a loaf and eat in the park?
I should like it so much better."

"One cup of coffee," said Mrs. Darke, entering; "the excellent Mocha that I get from the Turkey
captains."

She set down on a small table a wonderful cup of Eastern porcelain, and some little sugared
cakes, and Aurelia, not to be utterly ungracious, tasted one, and began on the coffee, which
was so hot that it had to be taken slowly. As she sipped a soothing drowsiness came over her,
which at first was accounted for by the warm room after her row on the river; but it gained
upon her, and instead of setting out for her walk she fell sound asleep in the corner of the couch.

"It has worked. It is well," said Mrs. Darke, lifting the girl's feet on the couch, and producing
a large pair of scissors.

Loveday could not repress a little shriek.

"Hush!" as the woman untied the black silk hood, drew it gently off, and then undid the ribbon
that confined the victim's abundant tresses. "Bah! it will be grown by the time she arrives,
and if not so long as present, what will they know of it? It will be the more agreeable surprise!
Here, put yonder cloth under her head while I hold it up."

"I cannot," sobbed Loveday. "This is too much. I never would have entered my Lady's service
if I had known I was to be set to such as this."

"Come, come, Grace Loveday, I know too much of you for you to come the Presician over me."

"Such a sweet innocent! So tender-hearted and civil too."

"Bless you, woman, you don't know what's good for her! She will be a very queen over the black
slaves on the Indies. Captain Karen will tell you how the wenches thank him for having brought
'em out. They could never do any good here, you know, poor lasses; but out there, where white
women are scarce, they are ready to worship the very ground they tread upon."

"I tell you she ain't one of that sort. She is a young lady of birth, a cousin of my Lady's
own, as innocent as a babe, and there are two gentlemen, if not three, a dying for her."

"I lay you anything not one of 'em is worth old Mr. Van Draagen, who turns his thousands every
month. 'Send me out a lady lass,' says he, 'one that will do me credit with the governor's
lady.' Why she will have an estate as big as from here to Dover, and slaves to wait on her,
so as she need never stoop to pick up her glove. He has been married twice before, and his
last used to send orders for the best brocades in London. He stuck at no expense. The Queen
has not finer gowns!"

"But to think of the poor child's waking up out at sea."

"Oh! Mrs. Karen will let her know she may think herself well off. I never let 'em go unless
there's a married woman aboard to take charge of them, and that's why I kept your lady waiting
till the Red Cloud was ready to sail. You may tell her Ladyship she could not have a better
berth, and she'll want for nothing. I know what is due to the real quality, and I've put aboard
all the toilette, and linen, and dresses as was bespoke for the last Mrs. Van Draagen, and
there's a civil spoken wench aboard, what will wait on her for a consideration."

"Nay, but mistress," said Loveday, whispering: "I know those that would give more than you
will ever get from my Lady if they found her safe here."

"Of course there are, or she would not be here now," said Mrs. Darke, with a horrid grin; "but
that won't do, my lass. A lady that's afraid of exposure will pay you, if she pawns her last
diamond, but a gentleman--why, he gets sick of his fancy, and snaps his fingers at them that
helped him!" Then, looking keenly at Loveday, "You've not been playing me false, eh?"

"O no, no," hastily exclaimed Loveday, cowering at the malignant look.

"If so be you have, Grace Loveday, two can play at that game," said Mrs. Darke composedly.
"There, I have left her enough to turn back. What hair it is! Feel the weight of it! There's
not another head of the mouse-colour to match your Lady's in the kingdom," she added, smoothing
out the severed tresses with the satisfaction of a connoisseur. "No wonder madame could not
let this be wasted on the plantations, when you and I and M. le Griseur know her own hair is
getting thinner than she would wish a certain Colonel to guess. There! the pretty dear, what
a baby she looks! I will tie her on a cowl, lest she should take cold on the river. See these
rings. Did you Lady give no charge about them?"

"I had forgot!" said the waiting-woman, confused; "she charged me to bring them back, old family
jewels, she said, that must not be carried off to foreign parts; but I cannot, cannot do it.
To rob that pretty creature in her sleep."

"Never fear. She'll soon have a store much finer than these! You fool, I tell you she will
not wake these six or eight hours. Afraid? There, I'll do it! Ho! A ruby? A love-token, I wager;
and what's this? A carved Cupid. I could turn a pretty penny by that, when your lady finds
it convenient, and her luck at play goes against her. Eh! is this a wedding-ring? Best take
that off; Mr. Van Draagen might not understand it, you see. Here they are. Have you a patch-box
handy for them in your pocket? Why what ails the woman? You may thank your stars there's some
one here with her wits about her! None of your whimpering, I say, her comes Captain Karen."

Two seafaring men here came up the garden path, the foremost small and dapper, with a ready
address and astute countenance. "All right, Mother Darkness, is our consignment ready? Aye,
aye! And the freight?"

"This lady has it," said Mrs. Darke, pointing to Loveday; "I have been telling her she need
have no fears for her young kinswoman in your hands, Captain."

He swore a round oath to that effect, and looking at the sleeping maiden, again swore that
she was the choicest piece of goods ever confided to him, and that he knew better than let
such an article arrive damaged. Mr. Van Draagen ought to come down handsomely for such an extra
fine sample; but in the meantime he accepted the rouleau of guineas that Loveday handed to
him, the proceeds, as she told Mrs. Darke, of my Lady's winnings last night at loo.

All was ready. Poor Aurelia was swathed from head to foot in a large mantle, like the chrysalis
whose name she bore, the two sailors took her up between them, carried her to their boat, and
laid her along in the stern. Then they pushed off and rowed down the river. Loveday looked
up and looked down, then sank on the steps, convulsed with grief, sobbing bitterly. "She said
He could deliver her from the mouth of lions! And He has not," she murmured under her breath,
in utter misery and hopelessness.

CHAPTER XXXIV. DOWN THE RIVER.

    The lioness, ye may move her
    To give o'er her prey,
    But ye'll ne'er stop a lover,
    He will find out the way.

Elizabeth Delavie and her little brother were standing in the bay window of their hotel, gazing
eagerly along the street in hopes of seeing the Major return, when Sir Amyas was seen riding
hastily up on his charger, in full accoutrements, with a soldier following. In another moment
he had dashed up stairs, and saying, "Sister, read that!" put into Betty's hand a slip of paper
on which was written in pencil--

"If Sir A. B. would not have his true love kidnapped to the plantations, he had best keep watch
on the river gate of Mistress Darke's garden at Greenwich. No time to lose."

"Who brought you this?" demanded Betty, as well as she could speak for horror.

"My mother's little negro boy, Syphax. He says Mrs. Loveday, her waiting-woman, gave it to
him privately on the stairs, as she was about to get into a sedan, telling him I would give
him a crown if he gave it me as I came off parade."

"Noon! Is there time?"

"Barely, but there shall be time. There is no time to seek your father."

"No, but I must come with you."

"The water is the quickest way. There are stairs near. I'll send my fellow to secure a boat."

"I will be ready instantly, while you tell your uncle. It might be better if he came."

Sir Amyas flew to his uncle's door, but found him gone out, and, in too great haste to inquire
further, came down again to find Betty in cloak and hood. He gave her his arm, and, Eugene
trotting after them, they hurried to the nearest stairs, remembering in dire confirmation what
Betty had heard from the school-girl. Both had heard reports that young women were sometimes
thus deported to become wives to the planters in the southern colonies or the West Indies,
but that such a destiny should be intended for their own Aurelia, and by Lady Belamour, was
scarcely credible. Doubts rushed over Betty, but she remembered what the school-girl had said
of the captive being sent beyond seas; and at any rate, she must risk the expedition being
futile when such issues hung upon it. And if they failed to meet her father, she felt that
her presence might prevail when the undefined rights of so mere a lad as her companion might
be disregarded.

His soldier servant had secured a boat, and they rapidly descended to the river; Sir Amyas
silent between suspense, dismay and shame for his mother, and Betty trying to keep Eugene quiet
by hurried answers to his eager questions about all he saw. They had to get out at London Bridge,
and take a fresh boat on the other side, a much larger one, with two oarsmen, and a grizzled
old coxswain, with a pleasant honest countenance, who presently relieved Betty of all necessity
of attending to, or answering, Eugene's chatter.

"Do you know where this garden is?" said she, leaning across to Sir Amyas, who had engaged
the boat to go to Greenwich.

He started as if it were a new and sudden thought, and turning to the steersman demanded whether
he knew Mrs. Darke's garden.

The old man gave a kind of grunt, and eyed the trio interrogatively, the young officer with
his fresh, innocent, boyish face and brilliant undisguised uniform, the handsome child, the
lady neither young, gay, nor beautiful, but unmistakeably a decorous gentlewoman.

"Do you know Mrs. Darke's?" repeated Sir Amyas.

"Aye, do I? Mayhap I know more about the place than you do."

There was that about his face that moved Betty and the young man to look at one another, and
the former said, "She has had to do with--evil doings?"

"You may say that, ma'am."

"Then," they cried in one breath, "you will help us!" And in a very few words Betty explained
their fears for her young sister, and asked whether he thought the warning possible.

"I've heard tell of such things!" said the old man between his teeth, "and Mother Darkness
is one to do 'em. Help you to bring back the poor young lass? That we will, if we have to break
down the door with our fists. And who is this young spark? Her brother or her sweetheart?"

"Her husband!" said Sir Amyas. "Her husband from whom she has been cruelly spirited away. Aid
me to bring her back, my good fellow, and nothing would be too much to reward you."

"Aye, aye, captain, Jem Green's not the man to see an English girl handed over to they slave-driving,
outlandish chaps. But I say, I wish you'd got a cloak or summat to put over that scarlet and
gold of yourn. It's a regular flag to put the old witch on her guard."

On that summer's day, however, no cloak was at hand. They went down the river very rapidly,
for the tide was running out and at length Jem Green pointed out the neat little garden. On
the step sat a woman, apparently weeping bitterly. Could it be the object of their search?
No, but as they came nearer, and she was roused so as to catch sight of the scarlet coat, she
beckoned and gesticulated with all her might; and as they approached Sir Amyas recognised her
as his mother's maid.

"You will be in time yet," she cried breathlessly. "Oh! take me in, or you won't know the ship!"

So eager and terrified was she, that but for the old steersman's peremptory steadiness, her
own life and theirs would have been in much peril, but she was safely seated at last, gasping
out, "The Red Cloud, Captain Karen. They've been gone these ten minutes."

"Aye, aye," gruffly responded Green, and the oars moved rapidly, while Loveday with another
sob cried, "Oh! sir, I thought you would never come!"

"You sent the warning?"

Yes, sir, I knew nothing till the morning, when my Lady called me up. I lie in her room, you
know. She had given orders, and I was to take the sweet lady and go down the river with her
to Mrs. Darke, the perfuming woman my Lady has dealings with about here hair and complexion.
There I was to stay with her till--till this same sea-captain was to come and carry her off
where she would give no more trouble. Oh, sir, it was too much--and my Lady knew it, for she
had tied my hands so that I had but a moment to scribble down that scrip, and bid Syphax take
it to you. The dear lady! she said, 'her God could deliver her out of the mouth of the lion,'
and I could not believe it! I thought it too late!"

"How can we thank you," began Betty; but she was choked by intense anxiety, and Jem Green broke
in with an inquiry where the ship was bound for. Loveday only had a general impression of the
West Indies, and believed that the poor lady's destined spouse was a tobacconist, and as the
boat was soon among a forest of shipping where it could not proceed so fast, Green had to inquire
of neighbouring mariners where the Red Cloud was lying.

"The Red Cloud, Karen, weighs anchor for Carolina at flood tide to-night. Shipper just going
aboard," they were told.

Their speed had been so rapid that they were in time to see the boat alongside, and preparations
being made to draw up some one or something on board. "Oh! that is she!" cried Loveday in great
agitation. "They've drugged her. No harm done. She don't know it. But it is she!"

Sir Amyas, with a voice of thunder, called out, "Halt, villain," at the same moment as Green
shouted "Avast there, mate!" And their boat came dashing up alongside.

"Yield me up that lady instantly, fellow!" cried Sir Amyas, with his sword half drawn.

"And who are you, I should like to know," returned Karen, coolly, "swaggering at an honest
man taking his freight and passengers aboard?"

"I'll soon show you!"

"Hush, sir," said Green, who had caught sight of pistols and cutlasses, "let me speak a moment.
Look you here, skipper, this young gentleman and lady have right on their side. This is her
sister, and he is her husband. They are people of condition, as you see."

"All's one to me on the broad seas."

"That may be," said Green, "but you see you can't weigh anchor these three hours or more; and
what's to hinder the young captain here from swearing against you before a magistrate, and
getting your vessel searched, eh?"

"I've no objection to hear reason if I'm spoke to reasonable," said Karen, sulkily; "but I'll
not be bullied like a highwayman, when I've my consignment regularly made out, and the freight
down in hand, square."

"You may keep your accursed passage-money and welcome," cried Sir Amyas, "so you'll only give
me my wife!"

"Show him the certificate," whispered Betty.

Sir Amyas had it ready, and he read it loud enough for all on the Thames to hear. Karen gave
a sneering little laugh. "What's that to me? My passenger here has her berth taken in the name
of Ann Davis."

"Like enough," said Loveday, "but you remember me, captain, and I swear that this poor young
lady is what his Honour Sir Amyas say. He is a generous young gentleman, and will make it up
to you if you are at any loss in the matter."

"A hundred times over!" exclaimed Amyas hotly.

"Hardly that," said Karen. "Van Draagen might have been good for a round hundred if he'd been
pleased with the commission."

"I'll give you and order--" began Sir Amyas.

"What have you got about you, sir?" interrupted Karen. "I fancy hard cash better than your orders."

The youth pulled out his purse. There was only a guinea or two and some silver. "One does not
go out to parade with much money about one," he said, with a trembling endeavour for a smile,
"but if you would send up to my quarters in Whitehall Barracks---"

"Never mind, sir," said Karen, graciously. "I see you are in earnest, and I'll put up with
the loss rather than stand in the light of a couple of true lovers. Here, Jack, lend a hand,
and we'll hoist the young woman over. She's quiet enough, thanks to Mother Darkness."

The sudden change in tone might perhaps be owing to the skipper's attention having been called
by a sign from one of his men to a boat coming up from Woolwich, rowed by men of the Royal
navy, who were certain to take part with an officer; but Sir Amyas and Betty were only intent
on receiving the inanimate form wrapped up in its mantle. What a meeting it was for Betty,
and yet what joy to have her at all! They laid her with her head in her sister's lap, and Sir
Amyas hung over her, clasping one of the limp gloved hands, while Eugene called "Aura, Aura,"
and would have impetuously kissed her awake, but Loveday caught hold of him. "Do not, do not,
for pity's sake, little master," she said; "the potion will do her no harm if you let her sleep
it off, but she may not know you if you waken her before the time."

"Wretch, what have you given her?" cried Sir Amyas.

"It was not me, sir, it was Mrs. Darke, in a cup of coffee. She vowed it would do no hurt if
only she was let to sleep six or eight hours. And see what a misery it has saved her from!"

"That is true," said Betty. "Indeed I believe this is a healthy sleep. See how gently she breathes,
how soft and natural her colour is, how cool and fresh her cheek is. I cannot believe there
is serious harm done."

"How soon can we reach a physician?" asked Sir Amyas, still anxiously, of the coxswain.

"I can't rightly say, sir," replied he; "but never you fear. They wouldn't do aught to damage
such as she."

Patience must perforce be exercised as, now against the tide and the stream, the wherry worked
its way back. Once there was a little stir; Sir Amyas instantly hovered over Aurelia, and clasped
her hand with a cry of "My dearest life!" The long dark eyelashes slowly rose, the eyes looked
up for one moment from his face to her sister's, and then to her brother's, but the lids sank
as if weighed down, and with a murmur, "Oh, don't wake me," she turned her face around on Betty's
lap and slept again.

"Poor darling, she thinks it a dream," said Betty. "Eugene, do not. Sir, I entreat! Brother,
yes I will call you so if you will only let her alone! See how happy and peaceful her dear
face is! Do not rouse her into terror and bewilderment."

"If I only were sure she was safe," he sighed, hanging over, with an intensity of affection
and anxiety that brought a dew even to the old steersman's eyes; and he kindly engrossed Eugene
by telling about the places they passed, and setting him to watch the smart crew of the boat
from the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich, which was gaining on them.

Meanwhile the others interrogated Loveday, who told them of the pretext on which Lady Belamour
had sent her captive down to Mrs. Darke's. No one save herself had, in my Lady's household,
she said, an idea of where the young lady was, Lady Belamour having employed only hired porters
except on that night when Lady Aresfield's carriage brought her. This had led to the captivity
being know to Lady Belle and her brother, and Loveday had no doubt that it was the discovery
of their being aware of it, as well as Jumbo's appearance in the court, that had made her mistress
finally decide on this frightful mode of ridding herself of the poor girl. The maid was as
adroit a dissembler as her mistress, and she held her peace as to her own part in forwarding
Colonel Mar's suit, whether her lady guessed it or not, but she owned with floods of tears
how the sight of the young lady's meek and dutiful submission, her quiet trust, and her sweet,
simple teaching of the children, had wakened into life again a conscience long dead to all
good, and made it impossible to her to carry out this last wicked commission without an attempt
to save the creature whom she had learnt to reverence as a saint. Most likely her scruples
had been suspected by her mistress, for there had been an endeavour to put it out of her power
to give any warning to the victim. Yet after all, the waiting-maid had been too adroit for
the lady, or, as she fully owned, Aurelia's firm trust had not been baulked, and deliverance
from the lions had come.

CHAPTER XXXV. THE RETURN.

    And now the glorious artist, ere he yet
    Had reached the Lemnian Isle, limping, returned;
    With aching heart he sought his home.
                                      Odyssey--COWPER.

How were they to get the slumbering maiden home? That was the next question. Loveday advised
carrying her direct to her old prison, where she would wake without alarm; but Sir Amyas shuddered
at the notion, and Betty said she could not take her again into a house of Lady Belamour's.

The watermen, who were enthusiastic in the cause, which they understood as that of one young
sweetheart rescued by the other, declared that they would carry the sweet lady between them
on the cushions of their boat, laid on stretchers; and as they knew of a land-place near the
Royal York, with no need of crossing any great thoroughfare, Betty thought this the best chance
of taking her sister home without a shock.

The boat from Woolwich had shot London Bridge immediately after them, and stopped at the stairs
nearest that where they landed; and just as Sir Amyas, with an exclamation of annoyance at
his unserviceable arm, had resigned Aurelia to be lifted on to her temporary litter, a hand
was laid on his shoulder, a voice said "Amyas, what means this?" and he found himself face
to face with a small, keen-visaged, pale man, with thick grizzled brows overhanging searching
dark grey eyes, shaded by a great Spanish hat.

"Sir! oh sir, is it you?" he cried, breathlessly; "now all will be well!"

"I am very glad you think so, Amyas," was the grave answer; "for all this has a strange appearance."

"It is my dearest wife, sir, my wife, whom I have just recovered after--Oh, say, sir, if you
think all is well with her, and it is only a harmless sleeping potion. Sister--Betty--this
is my good father, Mr. Wayland. He is as good as a physician. Let him see my sweetest life."

Mr. Wayland bent over the slumbering figure still in the bottom of the boat, heard what could
be told of the draught by Loveday, whom he recognized as his wife's attendant, and feeling
Aurelia's pulse, said, "I should not think there was need for fear. To the outward eye she
is a model of sleeping innocence." "Well you may say so," and "She is indeed," broke from the
baronet and the waiting-maid at the same instant; but Mr. Wayland heeded them little as he
impatiently asked, "Where and how is your mother, Amyas?"

"In health sir, at home, I suppose," said Sir Amyas; "but oh, sir, hear me, before you see her."

"I must, if you walk with me," said Mr. Wayland, turning for a moment to bid his servant reward
and dismiss the boat's crew, and see to the transport of his luggage; and in the meantime Aurelia
was lifted by her bearers.

Sir Amyas again uttered a rejoicing, "We feared you were in the hands of the pirates, sir."

"So I was; but the governor of Gibraltar obtained my release, and was good enough to send me
home direct in a vessel on the king's service," said Mr. Wayland, taking the arm his stepson
offered to assist his lameness. "Now for your explanation, Amyas; only let me hear first that
my babes are well."

"Yes, sir, all well. You had my letter?"

"Telling of that strange disguised wedding? I had, the very day I was captured."

By the time they had come to the place where their ways parted, Mr. Wayland had heard enough
to be so perplexed and distressed that he knew not that he had been drawn out of the way to
Hanover Square, till at the entrance of the Royal York, they found Betty asseverating to the
landlady that she was bringing no case of small pox into the house; and showing, as a passport
of admittance, two little dents on the white wrist and temple.

At that instant the sound brought Major Delavie hurrying from his sitting-room at his best
speed. There was a look of horror on his face as he saw his daughter's senseless condition,
but Betty sprang to his side to prevent his wakening her, and Aurelia was safely carried up
stairs and laid upon her sister's bed, still sleeping, while Betty and Loveday unloosed her
clothes. Her bearers were sent for refreshment to the bar, and the gentlemen stood looking
on one another in the sitting-room, Mr. Wayland utterly shocked, incredulous of the little
he did understand, and yet unable to go home until he should hear more; and the Major hardly
less horrified, in the midst of his relief. "But where's Belamour!" he cried, "Your uncle, I mean."

"Where?" said Sir Amyas. "They said he was gone out."

"So they told me! And see here!"

Major Delavie produced Lady Belamour's note.

"A blind!" cried Sir Amyas, turning away under a strange stroke of pain and sham. "Oh! mother,
mother!" and he dashed out of the room.

Poor Mr. Wayland sat down as one who could stand no longer. "Of what do they suspect her?"
he said hoarsely.

"Sir," said the good Major, "I grieve sincerely for and with you. Opposition to this match
with my poor child seems to have transported my poor cousin to strange and frantic lengths,
but you may trust me to shield and guard her from exposure as far as may be."

Her husband only answered by a groan, and wrung Major Delavie's hand, but their words were
interrupted by Sir Amyas's return. He had been to his uncle's chamber, and had found on the
table a note addressed to the Major. Within was a inclosure directed to A. Belamour, Esq.

  "If you have found the way to the poor captive, for pity's sake
   come to her rescue.  Be in the court with your faithful black
   by ten o'clock, and you may yet save on who loves and looks to
   you."

On the outer sheet was written--

  "I distrust this handwriting, and suspect a ruse.  In case I do
   not return, send for Hargrave, Sandys, Godfrey, as witnesses to
   my sanity, and storm the fair one's fortress in person.   A. B."

"It is not my Aurelia's writing," said the Major. "Bravest of friends, what has he not dared
on her account!"

"This is too much!" cried Mr. Wayland, striving in horror against his convictions. "I cannot
hear my beloved wife loaded with monstrous suspicions in her absence!"

"I am sorry to say this is no new threat ever since poor Belamour has crossed her path," said
the Major.

"What have you done, sir!" asked Sir Amyas.

"I fear I have but wasted time," said the Major. "I have been to Hanover Square, and getting
no admittance there, I came back in the hope you might be on the track with Betty--as, thank
God, you were! The first thing to be done now is to find what she has done with Belamour,"
he added, rising up.

"That must fall to my share," said Mr. Wayland, pale and resolute. "Come with me, Amyas, your
young limbs will easily return before the effect of the narcotic has passed, and I need fuller
explanation."

Stillness than came on the Delavie party. The Major went up stairs, and sat by Aurelia's bed
gazing with eyes dazzled with tears at the child he had so longed to see, and whom he found
again in this strange trance. A doctor came, and quite confirmed Mr. Wayland's opinion, that
the drug would not prove deleterious, provided the sleep was not disturbed, and Betty continued
her watch, after hearing what her father knew of Mr. Belamour. She was greatly struck with
the self-devotion that had gone with open eyes into so dreadful a snare as a madhouse of those
days rather than miss the least chance of saving Aurelia.

"If we go by perils dared, the uncle is the true knight-errant," said she to her father. "I
wonder which our child truly loves the best!"

"Betty!" said her father, scandalised.

"Ay, I know, Sir Amyas is a charming boy, but what a boy he is! And she has barely spoken with
him or seen him, whereas Mr. Belamour has been kind to her for a whole twelvemonth. I know
what I should do if I were in her place. I would declare that I intended to be married to the
uncle, and would keep it!"

"He would think it base to put the question."

"He would; but indeed, dear sir, I think it would be but right and due to the dear child herself
that she should have here free choice, and not be bound for ever by a deception! Yes, I know
the poor boy's despair would be dreadful, but it would be better for them both than such a
mistake."

"Hush! I hear him knocking at the door, you cruel woman."

The bedroom opened into the parlour the party had hired, so that both could come out and meet
Sir Amyas with the door ajar, without relaxing their watch upon the sleeper. The poor young
man looked pale, shocked, and sorrowful. "Well," said he, after having read in their looks
that there was no change, "he knows the worst." Then on a further token of interrogation, "It
may have been my fault; I took him, unannounced, through the whole suite of rooms, and in the
closet at the end, with all the doors open, she was having an altercation with Mar. He was
insisting on knowing what she had done with"--(he signed towards the other room) "she, upbraiding
him with faithlessness. They were deaf to an approach, till Mr. Wayland, in a loud voice, ordered
me back, saying 'it was no scene for a son.'"

"I trust it will not end in a challenge?" asked the Major, gravely.

"No, my father's infirmity renders him no fighting man, and I--I may not challenge my superior
officer."

"But your uncle?" said Betty, much fearing that such a scene might have led to his being forgotten.

"I should have told you. We had not made many steps from hence before we met poor Jumbo wandering
like a dog that had lost his master. Mr. Belamour had taken the precaution of giving Jumbo
the pass-key, and not taking him into that house (some day I will pull every brick of it down),
so he watched till by and by he saw a coach come out with all the windows closed, and as his
master had bidden him in such a case, he kept along on the pavement near, and never lost sight
of it till he had tracked it right across the City to a house with iron-barred windows inside
a high wall. There it went in, and he could not follow, but he asked the people what place
it was, and though they jeered at him, he made out that it was as we feared. Nay, do not be
alarmed, sister, he will soon be with us. My poor father shut me out, and I know not what passed
with my mother, but just as I could wait no longer to return to my dearest, he came out and
told me that he had found out that my uncle was in a house at Moorfields, and he is gone himself
to liberate him. He is himself a justice of the peace, and he will call for Dr. Sandys by the
way, that there may be no difficulty. He is gone in the coach-and-four, with Jumbo on the box,
so that matters will soon be righted."

"And a heroic champion set free," said Betty moving to return to her sister, when the others
would not be denied having another look at the sweet slumberer, on whose face there was now
a smile as if her dreams were marvellously lovely; or, as Betty thought, as if she knew their
voices even in her sleep.

Sir Amyas had not seen his mother again. He only knew that Mr. Wayland had come out with a
face as of one stricken to the heart, a sad contrast to that which had greeted him an hour
before, and while the carriage was coming round, had simply said, "I did wrong to leave her."

It would not bear being talked over, and both son and kinsman took refuge in silence. Two hours
more of this long day had passed, and then a coach stopped at the door. Sir Amyas hurried down
in his eager anxiety, and came back with his uncle, holding him by the hand like a child, in
his gladness, and Betty came out to meet them in the outer room with a face of grateful welcome
and outstretched hands.

"Sir! sir! you have done more than all of us."

"Yet you and your young champion here were the victors," said Mr. Belamour.

"Ah, we dared and suffered nothing like you."

"I hope you did not suffer much," said the major, looking at the calm face and neatly-tied
white hair, which seemed to have suffered no disarrangement.

"No," said Mr. Belamour, smiling, "my little friend Eugene, ay, and my nephew himself, are
hoping to hear I was released from fetters and a heap of straw, but I took care to give them
no opportunity. I merely told them they were under a mistake, and had better take care. I gave
them a reference or two, but I saw plainly that was of no use, though they promised to send,
and then I did exactly as they bade me, so as to deprive them of all excuse for meddling with
me, letting them know that I could pay for decent treatment so long as I was in their hands."

"Did you receive it?"

"I was told in a mild manner, adapted to my intelligence, that if I behaved well, I might eat
at the master's table, and have a room with only one inmate. Of the former I have not an engaging
experience, either as to the fare, the hostess, or the company. Of the latter, happily I know
little, as I only know that my comrade was to be a harmless gibbering idiot; of good birth,
poor fellow. However, the sounds I heard, and the court I looked into, convinced me that my
privileges were worth paying for."

He spoke very quietly, but he shuddered involuntarily, and Betty, unable to restrain her tears,
retreated to her sister's side.

CHAPTER XXXVI. WAKING.

    So Love was still the Lord of all.--SCOTT.

The summer sun was sinking and a red glow was on the wall above Aurelia's head when she moved
again, upon the shutting of the door, while supper was being taken by the gentlemen in the
outer room.

Presently her lips moved, and she said, "Sister," not in surprise, but as if she thought herself
at home, and as Betty gently answered, "Yes, my darling child," the same voice added, "I have
had such a dream; I thought I was a chrysalis, and that I could not break my shell nor spread
my wings."

"You can now, my sweet," said Betty, venturing to kiss her.

Recollection came. "Sister Betty, is it you indeed?" and she threw her arms round Betty's neck,
clinging tight to her in delicious silence, till she raised her head and said: "No, this is
not home. Oh, is it all true?"

"True that I have you again, my dear, dearest, sweetest child," said Betty. "Oh, thank God for it."

"Thank God," repeated Aurelia. "Now I have you nothing will be dreadful. But where am I? I
thought once I was in a boat with you and Eugene, and some one else. Was it a dream? I can't
remember anything since that terrible old woman made me drink the coffee. You have not come
there, have you?"

"No, dear child, it was no dream that you were in a boat. We had been searching everywhere
for you, and we were bringing you back sound, sound asleep," said Betty, in her tenderness
speaking as it to a little child.

"I knew you would," said Aurelia; "I knew God would save me. Love is strong as death, you know,"
she added dreamily: "I think I felt it all round me in that sleep."

"That was what you murmured once or twice in your sleep," said Betty.

"And now, oh! it is so sweet to lie here and know it is you. And wasn't he there too?"

"Sir Amyas? Yes, my dear. He came for you. He and my father and the others are in the other
room waiting for you to wake."

"I hear their voices," cried Aurelia, with a start, sitting up. "Oh! that's my papa's voice!
Oh! how good it is to hear it!"

"I will call him as soon as I have set you a little in order. Are you sure you are well, my
dearest? No headache?"

"Quite, quite well! Why, sister, I have not been ill; and if I had, I should skip to see you
and hear their voices, only I wish they would speak louder! That's Eugene! Oh! they are hushing
him. Let me make haste," and she moved with an alacrity that was most reassuring. "But I can't
understand. Is it morning or evening?"

"Evening, my dear. They are at supper. Are not you hungry?"

"Oh, yes, I believe I am;" but as she was about to wash her hands: "My rings, my wedding-ring?
Look in my glove!"

"No, they are not there my dear, they must have robbed you! And oh! Aurelia, what have you
done to your hair?"

"My hair? It was all there this morning. Sister, it was that woman, I remember now, I was not
quite sound asleep, but I had no power to move or cry out, and the woman was snipping and Loveday
crying."

"Vile creature!" burst out Betty.

"My hair will grow!" said Aurelia; "but I had so guarded my wedding-ring--and what will he,
Sir Amyas, think?"

Their voices were at this moment heard, and in another second Aurelia was held against her
father's breast, as in broken words he sobbed out thanks for her restoration, and implored
her pardon for having trusted her out of his care.

"Oh! sir, do not speak so! Dear papa, I have tried hard to do you no harm, and to behave well.
Please, sir, give me your blessing."

"God bless you indeed, my child. He has blessed you in guarding you as your innocence deserved,
though I did not. Ah! others are impatient. The poor old father comes second now."

After a few minutes spent in repairing the disorder of her dress, and her hands in those of
her father and little brother, she was led to the outer room where in the twilight there was
a rapturous rush, an embrace, a fondling of the hand in the manner more familiar to her than
the figure from before whom it proceeded. She only said in her gentle plaintive tone, "Oh,
sir, it was not my fault. They took away your rings."

"Nay," said a voice, new to her, "here are your rings, Lady Belamour. I must trust to your
Christian charity to pardon her who caused you to be stripped of them."

The name of Lady Belamour made her start as that of her enemy, but a truly familiar tone said,
"You need not fear, my kind friend. This is Mr. Wayland, who, to our great joy, has returned,
and has come to restore your jewels."

"Indeed I am very glad yours is not lost," said Aurelia, not a little bewildered.

Mr. Wayland said a few words of explanation that his wife's agent at Greenwich had brought
them back to her.

"Pray let me have them," entreated Sir Amyas; "I must put them on again!"

"Stay," said Major Delavie; "I can have such things done only under true colours and in the
full light of day. The child is scarcely awake yet, and does not know one from the other! Why
neither of you so much as know the colour of the eyes of the other! Can you tell me sir?"

"Heavenly," exclaimed the youth, in an ecstatic tone of self-defence, which set the Major laughing
and saying, "My silly maid knows as little which gentleman put on the ring."

"I do, sir," said Aurelia indignantly; "I know his voice and hand quite well," and in the impulse
she quitted her father's arm and put both hands into those of her young adorer, saying, "Pray
sir, pardon me, I never thought to hurt you so cruelly."

There was a cry of, "My own, my dearest life," and she was clasped as she had been immediately
after her strange wedding.

However, the sound of a servant's step made them separate instantly, and Betty begged that
the supper might not be removed, since it was many hours since her sister had tasted food.

Sir Amyas and Betty hovered about her, giving her whatever she could need, in the partial light,
while the others stood apart, exchanging such explanations as they could. Mr. Wayland said
he must report himself to Government on the morrow; but intended afterwards to take his wife
to Bowstead, whither she had sent all her children with Mrs. Dove. There was a great tenderness
in his tone as he spoke of her, and when he took leave Mr. Belamour shrugged his shoulders
saying, "She will come round him again!"

"It is true enough that he ought not to have left her to herself," said the Major.

"You making excuses for her after the diabolical plot of to-day?" said Mr. Belamour; "I could
forgive her all but that letter to you."

"My Lady loves her will," quoted the Major; "it amounts to insanity in some women, I believe."

"So I might say does men's infatuation towards women like her," muttered Mr. Belamour.

By this time Aurelia had finished her meal, and Betty was anxious to carry her off without
any more excitement, for she was still drowsy and confused. She bade her father good night,
asking his blessing as of old, but when Mr. Belamour kissed her hand and repeated the good
night, she said, "Sir, I ought to have trusted you; I am so sorry."

"It is all well now, my child," he said, soothingly, understanding Betty's wish; "Sleep, and
we will talk it over."

So the happy sisters once more slept in each other's arms, till in the early summer morning
Betty heard the whole story from Aurelia, now fully herself, though she slumbered again after
all was poured into her sister's bosom.

Betty had sympathised step by step, and felt even more strongly than Harriet that the situation
had been intolerable for womanhood, and that only Aurelia's childishness could have endured
it so long. Only the eldest sister held that it would have been right and honourable to have
spoken before flashing out the flame; but when, with many tears of contrition, Aurelia owned
that she had long thought so, and longed to confess it, what could the motherly sister do but
kiss the tears away, and rejoice that the penance was over which had been borne with such constancy
and self-devotion.

Then Betty rose quietly, and after giving thanks on her knees that the gentle spirit had passed
through all unscathed, untainted with even the perception of evil, she applied herself to the
adaptation of one of her morning caps to her poor shorn lamb's head. Nor did Aurelia wake again
till her father came to the door to make sure that all was well with his recovered treasure,
and to say that Loveday would recover for her the box of clothes, which old Madge had hidden.

Loveday had gone back to her mistress, who either had not discovered her betrayal, or, as things
had turned out, could not resent it.

So, fresh and blooming, Aurelia came out into the sitting-room, whence her father held out
his arms to her. He would have her all to himself for a little while, since even Eugene was
gone to his daily delight, the seeing the changing of the guard.

"And now, my child, tell me," he said, when he had heard a little of her feelings through these
adventures, "what would you have me do? Remember, such a wedding as yours goes for nothing,
and you are still free to choose either or neither of your swains."

"Oh, papa!" in a remonstrating tone.

"You were willing to wed your old hermit?"

"I was content then. He was very kind to me."

"Content then, eh? Suppose you were told he was your real husband?"

"Sir, he is not!" cried Aurelia, frightened.

"If he were?"

"I would try to do my duty," she said, in a choked voice.

"Silly child, don't cry. And how, if after these fool's tricks it turns out that the other
young spark is bound to that red-faced little spitfire and cannot have you?"

"Papa, don't!" she cried. "You know he is my husband in my heart, and always will be, and if
he cannot come back to me take me home, and I will try to be a good daughter to you," and she
hid her face on his shoulder.

"Poor child, it is a shame to tease her," said her father, raising up her face; "I only wanted
to know which of them you would wish to put on the ring again. I see. You need not be afraid,
you shall have the ruby one. But as for the little gold one, wait for that till it is put on
in church, my dear. Ah! and there's the flutter of his wings, or rather the rattle of his spurs.
Now then, young people, you shall not be hindered from a full view of each others lineaments.
It is the first time you ever had a real sight of each other, neither of you being in a swoon,
is it not? I trust you do not repent upon further acquaintance. Aurelia got as far as the shoe-buckles
once, I believe."

"She will get no farther this time, sir, if you annihilate her with your pleasantry," said
Betty, fully convinced by this time.

"Ah! young Love has made himself more dazzling than ever," continued the Major, too delighted
to be stopped. "The fullest dress uniform, I declare; M. le Capitaine is bent on doing honour
to the occasion."

"Would that it were on for no other reason, sir," said Sir Amyas; "but the King and Queen have
taken it into their heads to go off to Kew and here am I under orders to command the escort.
I verily believe it is all spite on the Colonel's part, for Russell would have exchanged the
turn with me, but he sent down special orders for me. I have but half an hour to spend here,
and when I shall be able to get back again Heaven only knows."

However, he and Aurelia were permitted to improve that half hour to the utmost in their own
way, while the Major and Betty were reading a long and characteristic letter from Mrs. Arden,
inquiring certainly for her sister's fate, but showing far more solicitude in proving that
she (Harriet Arden) had acted a wise, prudent, and sisterly part, and that it was most unreasonable
and cruel to treat her as accountable for her sister's disappearance. It was really making
her quite ill, and Mr. Arden was like a man--so disagreeable about it.

Betty was very glad this epistle had not come till it was possible to laugh at it. She would
have sat down to reply to it at once, had not a billet been brought in from the widow of one
of her father's old brother officers who had heard of his being in town, and begged him to
bring his daughter to see her, excusing herself for not waiting on Miss Delavie, as she was
very feeble and infirm.

It was a request that could not be refused, but Aurelia was not equipped for such a visit,
and shrank timidly from showing herself. So when Mr. Belamour came down it was agreed that
she should remain at home under his protection, in which she could be very happy, though his
person was as strange to her as his voice was familiar. Indeed she felt as if a burden was
on her mind till she could tell him of her shame at having failed in the trust and silence
that he had enjoined on her.

"My child," he said, "we have carried it too far. It was more than we ought to have required
of you, and I knew it. I had made up my mind, and told my nephew that the first time you really
asked I should tell the whole truth, and trust to your discretion, while of course he wished
for nothing more."

"As my sister said, it was my fault."

"Nay, I think you had good cause to stand on your defence, and I cannot have you grieve over
it. You have shown an unshaken steadiness under trial since, such as ought indeed to be compensation."

"I deserved it all," said Aurelia; "and I do hope that I am a little wiser and less foolish
for it all; a little more of a woman," she added, blushing.

"A soul trained by love and suffering, as in the old legend," said Mr. Belamour thoughtfully.

Thoroughly pleasant was here tete-a-tete with him, especially when she artlessly asked him
whether her dear sister were not all she had told him, and he fervently answered that indeed
she was "a perfect lesson to all so-called beauties of what true loveliness of a countenance
can be."

"Oh, I am so glad," cried Aurelia. "I never saw a face--a woman's I mean--that I like as well
as my dear sister's!"

She was sorry when they were interrupted by a call from Mr. Wayland, who had reported himself
at the Secretary of War, but could do no more that day, and had come to inquire for her. He
and Mr. Belamour drew apart into a window, and conversed in a low voice, and then they came
to her, and Mr. Wayland desired to know from where she found the recipe for the cosmetic which
had nearly cost her so dearly.

"It was in a shelf in the wainscoting, in a sort of little study at that house," said Aurelia.

"Among other papers?"

"Quantities of other papers."

"Of what kind?"

"Letters, and bills, and wills, and parchments! Oh, so dusty! Some were on paper tumbling to
pieces, and some on tiny slips of parchment."

"And you read them all?"

"I had to read them to see what they were, as well as I could make out, and sorted them and
tied them up in bundles."

"Can you tell me whether they were Delavie wills?"

"I should think they were. I know that the oldest of all were Latin, and I could make nothing
out in them but something about Manoriem and Carminster, and what looked like the names of
some of the fields at home."

"Do you think you could show me those slips?"

"I do not suppose any one has touched them."

"Then, my dear young lady, you would confer a great favour on me if you would allow Mr. Belamour
and myself to escort you to Delavie and show us these papers. I fear it may be alarming and
distressing."

"Oh no, sir, I know no harm can happen to me where Mr. Belamour is," she said, smiling.

"It may be very important," he said, and she went to put on her hood.

"Surely," said Mr. Wayland, "the title-deeds cannot have been left there?"

"No. The title-deeds to the main body of the property are at Hargrave's. I have seen them,
at the time of my brother's marriage; but still this may be what was wanting."

"Yet the sending this child to search is presumption that no such document existed."

"Of course no one supposed it did," said Mr. Wayland, on the defence again.

Aurelia was quickly ready in her little hood and kerchief, and trim high-heeled shoes. She
was greatly surprised to find how near she had been to her friends during these last few days
of her captivity, and when Madge obeyed the summons to the door, the old woman absolutely smiled
to see her safe, and the little terrier danced about her in such transports that she begged
to take him back with her.

She opened the door of the little empty book room, where nothing stood except the old bureau.
That, she said, had been full of letters, but all the oldest things had been within a door
opening in the wainscot, which she should never have found had not Bob pushed it open in his
search for rats, and then she found a tin case full of papers and parchments, much older, she
thought, than the letters. She had tied them up together, and easily produced them.

Mr. Wayland handed them to Mr. Belamour, whose legal eye was better accustomed to crabbed old
documents. A conversation that had begun on the way about Fay and Letty was resumed, and interested
both their father and Aurelia so much that they forgot to be impatient, until Mr. Belamour
looked up from his examination, saying, "This is what was wanting. Here is a grant in the 12th
year of Henry III. to Guglielmus ab Vita and the heirs male of his body to the Manor, lying
without the city of Carminster, and here are three wills of successive lords of Delavie expressly
mentioning heirs male. Now the deeds that I have seen do not go beyond 1539, when Henry Delavie
had a grant of the Grange and lands belonging to Carminster Abbey--the place, in fact, where
the Great House stands, and there is in that no exclusion of female heirs. But the Manor house
can certainly be proved to be entailed in the male line alone, according to what was, I believe,
the tradition of the family."

"There is no large amount of property involved, I fear," said Mr. Wayland.

"There is an old house, much out of repair, and a few farms worth, may be, 200 pounds a year,
a loss that will not be material to you, sir, I hope."

"Do you mean--?" said Aurelia, not daring to ask farther.

"I mean, my dear young lady," said Mr. Wayland, "that your researches have brought to light
the means of doing tardy justice to your good father."

"His right to the Manor House is here established," explained Mr. Belamour. "It will not be
a matter of favour of my Lady's, but, as my brother supposed, he ought to have been put in
possession on the old Lord's death."

"And Eugene will be a gentleman of estate," cried Aurelia, joyously. "Nor will any one be able
to drive out my dear father! Oh! how happy I am."

Both she and Mr. Belamour spared Mr. Wayland the knowledge of my Lady's many broken promises,
and indeed she was anxious to get back to the Royal York, lest her father and sister should
have returned, and think her again vanished.

They all met at the door, and much amazed were the Major and Betty to encounter her with her
two squires. Mr. Wayland took the Major to show him the parchments. Betty had her explanation
from her sister and Mr. Belamour.

"You actually ventured back to that dreadful house," she said, looking at them gratefully.

"You see what protectors I had," said Aurelia, with a happy smile.

"Yes," said Betty, "I have been longing to say--only I cannot," for she was almost choked by
a great sob, "how very much we owe to you, sir. I could say it better if I did not feel it
so much." And she held out her hand.

"You cannot owe to me a tithe of what I owe to your sister," said Mr. Belamour, "and through
her to you, madam. Much as nature had done for her, never would she have been to the miserable
recluse the life and light-bringing creature she was, save for the 'sister' she taught me to
know and love, even before I saw her."

A wonderful revelation here burst on Aurelia, the at least half-married woman, and she fled
precipitately, smiling to herself in ecstasy, behind her great fan.

Betty, never dreaming of the drift of the words, so utterly out of the reach of love did she
suppose herself, replied, composedly, "Our Aurelia is a dear good girl, and I am thankful that
through all her trials she has so proved herself. I am glad she has been a comfort to you,
sir. She---"

"And will not you complete the cure, and render the benefit lasting?" said Mr. Belamour, who
had never let go the hand she had given him in gratitude, and now gave it a pressure that conveyed,
for the first time, his meaning.

"Oh!" she cried, trying to take it away, "your kindness and gratitude are leading you too far,
sir. A hideous old fright like me, instead of a lovely young thing like her! It is an absurdity."

"Stay, Miss Delavie. Remember that your Aurelia's roses and lilies were utterly wasted on me;
I never thought whether she was beautiful save when others raved about her. I never saw her
till yesterday; but the voice, the goodness, the amiability, in fact all that I did truly esteem
and prize in her I had already found matured and mellowed together with that beauty of countenance
which is independent of mere skin-deep complexion and feature. You know my history, and how
far I am from being able to offer you a fresh untouched young heart, such as my nephew brings
to the fair Aurelia; but the devotion of my life will be yours if you will accept it."

"Sir, I cannot listen to you. You are very good, but I can never leave my father. Oh, let me
go away!"

CHAPTER XXXVII. MAKING THE BEST OF IT.

    At last the Queen said, "Girl, I bid thee rise,
    For now thou hast found favour in mine eyes,
    And I repent me of the misery
    That in this place thou hast endured me,
    Altho' because of it the Joy indeed
    Shall now be mine, that pleasure is thy meed."
                                              MORRIS.

Those were evil times, and the court examples were most corrupting, so that a splendid and
imperious woman like Urania, Lady Belamour, had found little aid from public opinion when left
to herself by the absence of her second husband. Selfish, unscrupulous, and pleasure-loving
she was by nature, but during Sir Jovian Belamour's lifetime she had been kept within bounds.
Then came a brief widowhood, when debt and difficulty hurried her into accepting Mr. Wayland,
a thoughtful scientific man, whose wealth had accumulated without much volition of his own
to an extent that made her covet his alliance. Enthralled by her charm of manner, he had not
awakened to the perception of what she really was during the few years that had elapsed before
he was sent abroad, and she refused to accompany him.

Then it was that wealth larger than she had before commanded, and a court appointment, involved
her in more dangerous habits. Her debts, both of extravagance and of the gaming table, were
enormous, trenching hard on the Delavie property, and making severe inroads on Mr. Wayland's
means; but the Belamour estates being safely tied up, she had only been able to borrow on her
dower. She had sinned with a high hand, after the fashion of the time, and then, in terror
at the approaching return of her husband, had endeavoured to conceal the ravages of her extravagance
by her bargain for her son's hand.

The youth, bred up at a distance, and then the companion of his step-father, had on his return
found his home painfully altered in his two years' absence, and had been galled and grieved
by the state of things, so that even apart from the clearing of his prospects, the relief was
great. The quarrel with Colonel Mar that Mr. Wayland had interrupted was not made up. There
was no opportunity, for Mr. Wayland at once removed his family to Bowstead, there to remain
while he transacted his business in London.

Moreover Mr. Belamour and Mr. Wayland agreed in selling the young baronet's commission. The
Major allowed that it was impossible that he should remain under the command of his present
Colonel, but regretted that he should not continue in the service, declaring it the best school
for a young man, and that he did not want to see his son-in-law a muddle-brained sporting country
squire. He would have had Sir Amyas exchange into the line, and see a little service before
settling down, but Maria Theresa had not as yet set Europe in a blaze, and in the absence of
a promising war Sir Amyas did more incline to his uncle's representations of duties to tenants
and to his county, and was even ready to prepare himself for them when he should be of sufficient
age to undertake them. However, in the midst of the debates a new scheme was made. Mr. Belamour
had been called upon and welcomed by his old friends, who, being men of rank and influence,
had risen in life while he was immured at Bowstead. One of these had just received a diplomatic
appointment at Vienna, and in spite of insular ignorance of foreign manners was at a loss for
a capable suite. Mr. Belamour suggested Major Delavie, as from his long service in Austria
likely to be very useful. The Envoy caught at the idea, and the thought of once more seeing
his old comrades enchanted the Major, whose only regret was that his hero, Prince Eugene, had
been dead three years; but to visit his grave would be something. Appointments ran in families,
so that nothing could be easier than to obtain one for the young baronet; and though Mr. Belamour
did not depend on his own health enough to accept anything, he was quite willing to join the
party, and to spend a little time abroad, while his nephew was growing somewhat older, making
an essay of his talents, and at any rate putting off the commencement of stagnation. Thus matters
settled themselves, the only disappointed member of the family being Mrs. Arden, who thought
it very hard that she could not stir any one up to request an appointment of her husband as
chaplain--not even himself!

Mr. Wayland was at once called upon to go out to America to superintend the defences of the
Canadian frontier, and he resolved on taking his family out, obtaining land, and settling there
permanently. He would pay all my Lady's debts, but she should never again appear in London
society, and cruel exile as it must seem to her, he trusted that his affection and tenderness
would in time reconcile her to the new way of life, knowing as she did that he had forgiven
much that had made him look like a crushed and sorrowful man in the midst of all the successes
and the honours he received from his country.

She remained quietly at Bowstead, and none of them saw her except her son and the Major, to
the latter of whom her husband brought a message that she would esteem it a favour if he would
come and visit her there, the day before he returned to Carminster. Very much affected, the
good Major complied with her request, went down with Mr. Wayland and spent a night at Bowstead.

He found that she had accepted her fate with the good grace of a woman whose first instinct
was not to make herself disagreeable. She was rather pale, and not "made up" in any way, but
exquisitely though more simply dressed, and more beautiful than ever, her cousin thought, as
he always did whenever he came into her presence. She was one of those people whose beauty
is always a fresh surprise, and she was far more self-possessed than he was.

"So, Cousin Harry, where am I to begin my congratulations! I did you and unwitting service
when I sent your daughter to search among those musty old parchments. I knew my father believed
in the existence of some such document, but I thought all those hoards in Delavie House were
devoid of all legal importance, and had been sifted again and again. Besides, I always meant
to settle that old house upon you."

"I have always heard so, cousin," he answered.

"But it was such a mere trifle," she added, "that it never seemed worth while to set the lawyers
to work about that alone, so I waited for other work to be in hand."

"There is a homely Scottish proverb, my Lady, which declares that the scrapings of the muckle
pot are worth the wee pot fu'. A mere trifle to you is affluence to us."

"I am sincerely rejoiced at it, Harry" (no doubt she thought she was), "you will keep up the
old name, while my scrupulous lord and master gives up my poor patrimony to the extortionate
creditors for years to come. It is well that the young lovers have other prospects. So Harry,
you see after all, I kept my word, and your daughter is provided for," she continued with an
arch smile. "Pretty creature, I find my son bears me more malice than she does for the robbery
that was perpetrated on her. It was too tempting, Harry. Nature will repair her loss, but at
out time of life we must beg, borrow, or steal."

"That was the least matter," said the Major gravely.

"This is the reason why I wished to see you," said my Lady, laying her white hand on his, "I
wanted to explain."

"Cousin, cousin, had not you better leave it alone?" said Major Delavie. "You know you can
always talk a poor man out of his senses at the moment."

"Yet listen, Harry, and understand my troubles. Here I was pledged, absolutely pledged, to
give my son to Lady Aresfield's daughter. I do not know whether she may not yet sue me for
breach of contract, though Wayland has repaid her the loans she advanced me; and on the other
hand, in spite of all my precautions, Mar had obtained a sight of your poor daughter, and I
knew him well enough to be aware that to put her entirely and secretly out of his reach was
the only chance preserving her from his pursuit. I had excellent accounts of the worthy man
to whom I meant her to be consigned, and I knew that when she wrote to you as a West Indian
queen you would be able to forgive your poor cousin. I see what you would say, but sending
her to you was impossible, since I had to secure her both from Amyas and from Mar. It would
only have involved you in perplexities innumerable, and might have led even to bloodshed! I
may not have acted wisely, but weak women in difficulties know not which path to choose."

"There is always the straight one," said he.

"Ah! you strong men can easily says so, but for us poor much-tried women! However," she said
suddenly changing her tone, "Love has check-mated us, and I rejoice. Your daughter will support
the credit of the name! I am glad the new Lady Belamour will not be that little termagant milkmaid
Belle, whom circumstances compelled me to inflict upon my poor boy! The title will be your
daughter's alone. I have promised my husband that in the New World I will sink into plain Mrs.
Wayland." Then with a burst of genuine feeling she exclaimed, "He is a good man, Harry."

"He is indeed, Urania, I believe you will yet be happier than you have ever been."

"What, among barbarians who never saw a loo-table, and get the modes three months too late!
And you are laughing at me, but see I am a poor frivolous being, not sufficient to myself like
your daughters! They say Aurelia was as sprightly as a spring butterfly all the time she was
shut up at Bowstead with no company save the children and old Belamour!"

"They are lovely children, madam, Aurelia dotes on them, and you will soon find them all you need."

"Their father is never weary of telling me so. He is never so happy as when they hang about
him and tell him of Cousin Aura, or Sister Aura as they love to call her."

"It was charming to see them dance round her when he brought them to spend the day with her.
Mr. Wayland brought his good kinswoman, who will take charge of them on the voyage, and Aurelia
was a little consoled at the parting by seeing how tender and kind she is with them."

"Aye! If I do not hate that woman it will be well, for she is as much a duenna for me as governess
for the children! Heigh-ho! what do not our follies bring on us? We poor creatures should never
be left to the great world."

The pretty air of repentance was almost irresistible, well as the Major knew it for the mood
of the moment, assumed as what would best satisfy him.

"I rejoice," she went on, "in spite of my lovely daughter-in-law's discretion, she will be
well surrounded with guardians. Has the excellent Betty consented?"

"At last, madam. My persuasions were vain till she found that Mr. Belamour would gladly come
with us to Austria, and that she should be enabled to watch over both her young sister and me."

"There, again, I give myself credit, Harry. Would the sacred flame ever have awakened in yonder
misanthrope had I not sent your daughter to restore him to life?" She spoke playfully, but
the Major could not help thinking she had persuaded herself that all his present felicity was
owing to her benevolence, and that she would persuade him of it too, if she went on much longer
looking at him so sweetly. He would not tax her with the wicked note she had written to account
for Mr. Belamour's disappearance, and which she had forgotten; he felt that he could not impel
one, whom he could not but still regard with tenderness, to utter any more untruths and excuses.

"By the by," she added, "does your daughter take my waiting-maid after all? I would have forgiven
her, for she is an admirable hairdresser, but Wayland says he cannot have so ingenious person
in his house; though after all I do not see that she is a bit worse than others of her condition,
and she herself insists on trying to become Aurelia's attendant, vowing that the sight of her
is as good as any Methodist sermon!"

"Precisely, madam. We were all averse to taking her with us, but Aurelia said she owed her
much gratitude; and she declared so earnestly that the sight of my dear child brought back
all the virtuous and pious thoughts she had forgotten, that even Betty's heart was touched,
and she is to go with us, on trial."

"Oh! she is as honest as regards money and jewels as ever I knew a waiting-maid, but for the
rest!" Lady Belamour shrugged her shoulders. "However, one is as good as another, and at least
she will never let her lady go a fright! See here, Harry. These are the Delavie jewels: I shall
never need them more: carry them to your daughters."

"Nay, your own daughters, Urania."

"Never mind the little wretches. Their father will provide for them, and they will marry American
settlers in the forests. What should they do with court jewels? It is his desire. See here,
this suit of pearls is what I wore at my wedding with Amyas's father, I should like Aurelia
to be married in them. Farewell, Harry, you did better for yourself than if you had taken me.
Yet maybe I might been a better woman---" She stopped short as she looked at his honest face,
and eyes full of tears.

"No, Urania," he said, "man's love could not have done for you what only another Love can do.
May you yet find that and true Life."

The sisters were not married at the same time. Neither Mr. Belamour nor his Elizabeth could
endure to make part of the public pageant that it was thought well should mark the real wedding
at Bowstead. So their banns were put up at St. Clement Danes, and one quiet morning they slipped
out, with no witnesses but the Major, Aurelia, and Eugene, and were wedded there in the most
unobtrusive manner.

As to the great marriage, a month later at Bowstead, there was a certain bookseller named Richardson,
who by favour of Hargrave got a view of it, and who is thought there to have obtained some
ideas for the culminating wedding of his great novel.

A little later, the following letter was written from the excellent Mrs. Montagu to her correspondent
Mrs. Elizabeth Carter. "There was yesterday presented, preparatory to leaving England for Vienna,
the young Lady Belamour, incomparably the greatest beauty who has this year appeared at Court.
Every one is running after her, but she appears perfectly unconscious of the furore she has
excited, and is said to have been bred up in all simplicity in the country, and to be as good
as she is fair. Her young husband, Sir Amyas Belamour, is a youth of much promise, and they
seem absolutely devoted, with eyes only for each other. They are said to have gone through
a series of adventures as curious as they are romantic; and indeed, when they made their appearance,
there was a general whisper, begun by young Mr. Horace Walpole, of

                        "CUPID AND PSYCHE."