The creation of such a powerful dissenting body is a thing that might have been expected. The
Church, in Sweden, had become a system of forms and ceremonies. The pure spiritualism of Swedenborg,
in the last century, was a natural and gigantic rebound to the opposite extreme, but, from
its lofty intellectuality, was unfitted to be the nucleus of a popular protest. Meanwhile,
the souls of the people starved on the dry husks which were portioned out to them. They needed
genuine nourishment. They are an earnest, reflective race, and the religious element is deeply
implanted in their nature. The present movement, so much like Methodism in many particulars,
owes its success to the same genial and all-embracing doctrine of an impartial visitation of
Divine grace, bringing man into nearer and tenderer relations to his Maker. In a word, it is
the democratic, opposed to the aristocratic principle in religion. It is fashionable in Sweden
to sneer at the Läsare; their numbers, character, and sincerity are very generally under-estimated.
No doubt there is much that is absurd and grotesque in their services; no doubt they run into
violent and unchristian extremes, and often merely substitute fanaticism for spiritual apathy;
but I believe they will in the end be the instrument of bestowing religious liberty upon Sweden.

There was no end to the desire of these people for knowledge. They overwhelmed us with questions
about our country, its government, laws, climate, productions and geographical extent. Next
to America, they seemed most interested in Palestine, and considered me as specially favoured
by Providence in having beheld Jerusalem. They all complained of the burdens which fall upon
a poor man in Sweden, in the shape of government taxes, tithes, and the obligation of supporting
a portion of the army, who are distributed through the provinces. Thus Dalecarlia, they informed
me, with a population of 132,000, is obliged to maintain 1200 troops. The tax on land corresponded
very nearly with the statement made by my female postillion the previous day. Dalecarlia, its
mines excepted, is one of the poorest of the Swedish provinces. Many of its inhabitants are
obliged to wander forth every summer, either to take service elsewhere, or to dispose of the
articles they fabricate at home, in order, after some years of this irregular life, to possess
enough to enable them to pass the rest of their days humbly at home. Our fellow-passengers
told me of several who had emigrated to America, where they had spent five or six years. They
grew home-sick at last, and returned to their chilly hills. But it was not the bleak fir-woods,
the oat-fields, or the wooden huts which they missed; it was the truth, the honesty, the manliness,
and the loving tenderness which dwell in Dalecarlian hearts.

We had a strong wind abeam, but our little steamer made good progress down the lake. The shores
contracted, and the white church of Leksand rose over the dark woods, and between two and three
o'clock in the afternoon, we were moored in the Dal River, where it issues from the Siljan.
The Elfdal peddlers shouldered their immense packs and set out, bidding us a friendly adieu
as we parted. After establishing ourselves in the little inn, where we procured a tolerable
dinner, we called upon the Domprost Hvasser, to whom I had a letter from a countryman who made
a pedestrian journey through Dalecarlia five years ago. The parsonage was a spacious building
near the church, standing upon the brink of a lofty bank overlooking the outflow of the Dal.
The Domprost, a hale, stout old man, with something irresistibly hearty and cheering in his
manner, gave us both his hands and drew us into the room, on seeing that we were strangers.
He then proceeded to read the letter.