But when everything is said for the Star Chamber that can be said, and every precaution taken
to secure to those whom it pursues the alternative of trial by jury, the expedient still remains
a very questionable one, to be endured for the sake of its protective rather than its repressive
powers. It should abolish the present quaint toleration of rioting in theatres. For example,
if it is to be an offence to perform a play which the proposed new Committee shall condemn,
it should also be made an offence to disturb a performance which the Committee has not condemned.
"Brawling" at a theatre should be dealt with as severely as brawling in church if the censorship
is to be taken out of the hands of the public. At present Jenny Geddes may throw her stool
at the head of a playwright who preaches unpalatable doctrine to her, or rather, since her
stool is a fixture, she may hiss and hoot and make it impossible to proceed with the performance,
even although nobody has compelled her to come to the theatre or suspended her liberty to stay
away, and although she has no claim on an unendowed theatre for her spiritual necessities,
as she has on her parish church. If mob censorship cannot be trusted to keep naughty playwrights
in order, still less can it be trusted to keep the pioneers of thought in countenance; and
I submit that anyone hissing a play permitted by the new censorship should be guilty of contempt
of court.

STAR CHAMBER SENTIMENTALITY

But what is most to be dreaded in a Star Chamber is not its sternness but its sentimentality.
There is no worse censorship than one which considers only the feelings  of the spectators,
except perhaps one which considers the feelings of people who do not even witness the performance.
Take the case of the Passion Play at Oberammergau. The offence given by a representation of
the Crucifixion on the stage is not bounded by frontiers: further, it is an offence of which
the voluntary spectators are guilty no less than the actors. If it is to be tolerated at all:
if we are not to make war on the German Empire for permitting it, nor punish the English people
who go to Bavaria to see it and thereby endow it with English money, we may as well tolerate
it in London, where nobody need go to see it except those who are not offended by it. When
Wagner's Parsifal becomes available for representation in London, many people will be sincerely
horrified when the miracle of the Mass is simulated on the stage of Covent Garden, and the
Holy Ghost descends in the form of a dove. But if the Committee of the Privy Council, or the
Lord Chamberlain, or anyone else, were to attempt to keep Parsifal from us to spare the feelings
of these people, it would not be long before even the most thoughtless champions of the censorship
would see that the principle of doing nothing that could shock anybody had reduced itself to
absurdity. No quarter whatever should be given to the bigotry of people so unfit for social
life as to insist not only that their own prejudices and superstitions should have the fullest
toleration but that everybody else should be compelled to think and act as they do. Every service
in St. Paul's Cathedral is an outrage to the opinions of the congregation of the Roman Catholic
Cathedral of Westminster. Every Liberal meeting is a defiance and a challenge to the most cherished
opinions of the Unionists. A law to compel the Roman Catholics to attend service at St. Paul's,
or the Liberals to attend the meetings of the Primrose League would be resented as an insufferable
tyranny. But a law to shut up both St.