"He was right. But we shall presently be getting our lumber from the far West for the same
reason that we now get it from the South. In ten or a dozen years there won't be any lumber
left in the South for us to buy. They will do well to supply themselves. Then we must bring
our lumber from Idaho and Oregon and Washington and California. The freight charges will be
something terrific, and the wood itself will cost a good deal more than it now does because
it will be so scarce."

"Great Cæsar!" cried Lew. "What will a poor devil do then if he wants to build a boat?"

"Or if he wants to build a house?" suggested the stranger. "You know lots of folks have to
build houses every year. Look at all the people who get married and build homes. Why, when
I was a little boy, you could buy the finest kind of lumber for ten or fifteen dollars a thousand.
It didn't cost much then to build a house. Now a man has to work for years before he can save
enough to pay for a home, even a very modest one. And what it will cost when the wood from
the South and the far West is all gone I hate to imagine."

"The wood from the far West all gone!" cried Charley. "Surely that can never be. Why, the forests
there are enormous. I've read all about them."

"The forests here were enormous, too, young man. Forty years ago Pennsylvania supplied a large
part of the nation with its lumber. And to-day we don't grow more than one-tenth of the wood
we use. Yes, sir; within twenty-five years or so after we have finished up the wood in the
South, there won't be any left in the far West, either."

"What in the world are we going to do?" asked Lew.

"God knows," said the stranger solemnly. "But there is one thing we've <i>got</i> to do right
now. Get these mountains to growing timber again. We must take care of what has already started
to grow and plant trees where there are none. Most important of all, we must be careful with
fire. I came down here just to warn you boys to be careful with your fire."

"It wasn't necessary," said Lew. "We fought a forest fire once, and nobody but an idiot would
ever be careless with fire if he had seen what we have seen this morning."

"Well, I must be moving, boys. There are lots of other fishermen that are not as careful as
you are. Good-bye."

The man started on, then turned back. "If you came here to fish," he said slowly, "you're up
against it. But I can tell you where to go to get all the trout you want. Go on up to the top
of this knob. Face exactly east and you will see a gap in the second range of mountains. Make
your way through that gap and you'll find as fine a trout-stream as God ever made. This is
state forest and the Forestry Department wants everybody to use and enjoy the forests. We are
always glad to help campers."

"Are you connected with the State Forest Service?" asked Charley, all interest.

"Of course," smiled the stranger. "I'm a forest-ranger," and he threw back his coat, exhibiting
a keystone shaped badge on his breast.

"And it's your duty to protect the forest from fire?" asked Charley.

"Yes; and do a lot more besides. A forest-ranger has to look after the forest just as a gardener
has to tend a garden. And that means we must care for everything in the forest--birds and animals
and fish as well as trees, though, of course, the game wardens have particular charge of the
animals."

"And how do you take care of the animals and the trees?" demanded Charley eagerly.

