THE STORY
                      OF
                 A TINDER-BOX.

            THE ROMANCE OF SCIENCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

                     THE STORY
                        OF
                   A TINDER-BOX.

              A COURSE OF LECTURES

  Delivered before a Juvenile Auditory at the London Institution
          during the Christmas Holidays of 1888-89.

                    BY THE LATE
         CHARLES MEYMOTT TIDY, M.B., M.S., F.C.S.
              FORMERLY BARRISTER-AT-LAW;
  PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY AND OF FORENSIC MEDICINE AT THE LONDON HOSPITAL;
  MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH FOR ISLINGTON; VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE INSTITUTE
  OF CHEMISTRY; ONE OF THE OFFICIAL ANALYSTS TO THE HOME OFFICE.

  [PUBLISHED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE GENERAL LITERATURE COMMITTEE.]

PREFACE.

These lectures were delivered with the assistance merely of a few notes, the author in preparing
them for the press adhering as nearly as possible to the shorthand writer's manuscript. They
must be read as intentionally untechnical holiday lectures intended for juveniles. But as the
print cannot convey the experiments or the demonstrations, the reader is begged to make the
necessary allowance.

The author desires to take this opportunity of expressing his thanks to Messrs. Bryant and
May; to Messrs. Woodhouse and Rawson, electrical engineers; to Mr. Woolf, the lead-pencil manufacturer;
and to Mr. Gardiner, for numerous specimens with which the lectures were illustrated.

THE STORY OF A TINDER-BOX

LECTURE I.

MY YOUNG FRIENDS,--Some months ago the Directors of this Institution honoured me with a request
that I should deliver a course of Christmas Juvenile Lectures. I must admit I did my best to
shirk the task, feeling that the duty would be better intrusted to one who had fewer demands
upon his time. It was under the genial influence of a bright summer's afternoon, when one thought
Christmas-tide such a long way off that it might never come, that I consented to undertake
this course of lectures. No sooner had I done so than I was pressed to name a subject. Now
it is a very difficult thing to choose a subject, and especially a subject for a course of
juvenile lectures; and I will take you thus much into my confidence by telling you that I selected
the subject upon which I am to speak to you, long before I had a notion what I could make of
it, or indeed whether I could make anything at all of it. I mention these details to ask you
and our elders who honour us--you and me--with their company at these lectures, for some little
indulgence, if at times the story I have to tell proves somewhat commonplace, something you
may have heard before, a tale oft told. My sole desire is that these lectures should be true
juvenile lectures.

Well, you all know what this is? [Holding up a box of matches.] It is a box of matches. And
you know, moreover, what it is used for, and how to use it. I will take out one of the matches,
rub it on the box, and "strike a light." You say that experiment is commonplace enough. Be
it so. At any rate, I want you to recollect that phrase--"strike a light." It will occur again
in our course of lectures. But, you must know, there was a time when people wanted fire, but
had no matches wherewith to procure it. How did they obtain fire? The necessity for, and therefore
the art of producing, fire is, I should suppose, as old as the world itself. Although it may
be true that our very earliest ancestors relied for necessary food chiefly on an uncooked vegetable
diet, nevertheless it is certain that very early in the history of the world people discovered
that cooked meat (the venison that our souls love) was a thing not altogether to be despised.
Certainly by the time of Tubal Cain, an early worker in metals, not only the methods of producing
fire, but also the uses to which fire could be applied, must have been well understood. Imagine
the astonishment of our ancestors when they first saw fire! Possibly, the first sight of this
wonderful "element" vouchsafed to mortals was a burning mountain, or something of that kind.
One is scarcely astonished that there should have been in those early times a number of people
who were professed fire-worshippers. No wonder, I say, that fire should have been regarded
with intense reverence. It constituted an essential part of early sacrificial worship. Some
of my young friends, too, may remember how in ancient Rome there was a special order (called
the order of the Vestal Virgins), whose duty it was to preserve the sacred fire, which if once
extinguished, it was thought would bring ruin and destruction upon their city.

How did our ancestors, think you, obtain fire in those early times? I suggested a burning mountain
as a source of fire. You remember, too, perhaps reading about Prometheus, who stole fire from
heaven, bringing it to earth in a copper rod, which combined act of theft and scientific experiment
made the gods very angry, because they were afraid mortals might learn as many wonderful things
as they knew themselves. History seems to show that the energetic rubbing together of dry sticks
was one of the earliest methods adopted by our ancestors for producing fire. I find, for instance,
described and pictured by an early author some such plan as the following:--A thick piece of
wood was placed upon the ground. Into a hole bored in this piece of wood a cone of wood was
fitted. By placing a boy or man on the top of the cone, and whirling him round, sufficient
friction resulted where the two pieces of wood rubbed one against the other to produce fire.
Our artist has modernized the picture to give you an idea of the operation (Fig. 1). Now instead
of repeating that experiment exactly, I will try to obtain fire by the friction of wood with
wood. I take this piece of boxwood, and having cut it to a point, rub it briskly on another
piece of wood (Fig. 2). If I employ sufficient energy, I have no doubt I may make it hot enough
to fire tinder. Yes! I have done so, as you see. (I will at once apologize for the smoke. Unfortunately
we cannot generally have fire without smoke.) Every boy knows that experiment in another form.
A boy takes a brass button, and after giving it a good rub on his desk, applies it to the cheek
of some inoffensive boy at his side, much to the astonishment of his quiet neighbour. Well,
I am going to see whether I can produce fire with a brass button. I have mounted my button,
as you see, for certain reasons on a cork, and I will endeavour by rubbing the button on a
piece of pinewood to make it sufficiently hot to fire tinder. Already I have done so.

Talking about friction as a means of producing heat, I should like to mention that at the last
Paris Exhibition I saw water made to boil, and coffee prepared from it, by the heat resulting
from the friction of two copper plates within the liquid.

That then is the earliest history I can give you of the production of fire, and at once from
that history I come to the reign of the tinder-box. The tinder-box constitutes one of the very
earliest methods, no doubt, of obtaining fire. I have searched for some history of the tinder-box,
and all I can say for certain is that it was in use long before the age of printing. I have
here several rare old tinder-boxes. I intend showing you in the course of these lectures every
detail of their construction and use. I have no doubt this very old tinder-box that you see
here (Fig. 3 A) was once upon a time kept on the mantel-piece of the kitchen well polished
and bright, and I do not doubt but that it has lit hundreds and thousands of fires, and, what
is more, has very often been spoken to very disrespectfully when the servant wanted to light
the fire, and her master was waiting for his breakfast. I will project a picture of it on the
screen, so that you may all see it. There it is. It is a beautiful piece of apparatus. There
is the tinder, the steel (Fig. 3 b), the flint (c), and the matches (d) complete.

It was with this instrument, long before the invention of matches, that our grandfathers obtained
light. I want to show you how the trick was managed. First of all it was necessary to have
good tinder. To obtain this, they took a piece of linen and simply charred or burnt it, as
you see I am doing now (Fig. 4). (Cambric, I am told, makes the best tinder for match-lighting,
and the ladies, in the kindness of their hearts, formerly made a point of saving their old
cambric handkerchiefs for this purpose.) The servants prepared the tinder over-night, for reasons
I shall explain to you directly. Having made the tinder, they shut it down in the box with
the lid (Fig. 3 A) to prevent contact with air. You see I have the tinder now safely secured
in my tinder-box. Here is a piece of common flint, and here is the steel. Here too are the
matches, and I am fortunate in having some of the old matches made many years ago, prepared
as you see with a little sulphur upon their tips. Well, having got all these etceteras, box,
tinder, flint and steel, we set to work in this way:--Taking the steel in one hand, and the
flint in the other, I must give the steel a blow, or rather a succession of blows with the
flint (Fig. 3 B). Notice what beautiful sparks I obtain! I want one of these sparks, if I can
persuade it to do so, to fall on my tinder. There! it has done so, and my tinder has caught
fire. I blow my fired tinder a little to make it burn better, and now I apply a sulphur match
to the red-hot tinder. See, I have succeeded in getting my match in flame. I will now set light
to one of these old-fashioned candles--a rushlight--with which our ancestors were satisfied
before the days of gas and electric lighting. This was their light, and this was the way they
lighted it. No wonder (perhaps you say) that they went to bed early.

I should like to draw your attention to one other form of tinder-box, because I do not suppose
you have ever seen these kind of things before. I have here two specimens of the pistol form
of tinder-box (Fig. 5). Here is the flint, the tinder being contained in this little box. It
is the same sort of tinder as we made just now. The tinder was fired with flint and steel in
the same way as the old-fashioned flint pistols fired the gunpowder. And you see this pistol
tinder-box is so constructed as to serve as a candlestick as well as a tinder-box. I have fired,
as you perceive, my charred linen with this curious tinder-box, and thus I get my sulphur match
alight once more!

It was in the year 1669 that Brandt, an alchemist and a merchant--a very distinguished scientific
man--discovered the remarkable substance I have here, which we call phosphorus. Brandt was
an alchemist. I do not know whether you know what an alchemist is. An alchemist was an old-fashioned
chemist. These alchemists had three prominent ideas before them. The first thing they sought
for was to discover a something--a powder they thought it ought to be--that would change the
commoner or baser metals (such as iron) into gold. The second idea was to discover "a universal
solvent," that is, a liquid which would dissolve everything, and they hoped out of this liquid
to be able to crystallize gems. And then, having obtained gold and gems, the third thing they
desired was "a vital elixir" to prolong their lives indefinitely to enjoy the gold and gems
they had manufactured. These were the modest aims of alchemy. Well now--although you may say
such notions sound very foolish--let me tell you that great practical discoveries had their
origin in the very out-of-the-way researches of the alchemists. Depend upon this, that an object
of lofty pursuit, though that object be one of practically impossible attainment, is not unworthy
the ambition of the scientific man. Though we cannot scale the summit of the volcanic cone,
we may notwithstanding reach a point where we can examine the lava its fires have melted. We
may do a great deal even in our attempt to grasp the impossible. It was so with Brandt. He
was searching for a something that would change the baser metals into gold, and, in the search,
he discovered phosphorus. The chief thing that struck Brandt about phosphorus was its property
of shining in the dark without having previously been exposed to light. A great many substances
were known to science even at that time that shone in the dark after they had been exposed
to light. But it was not until Brandt, in the year 1669, discovered phosphorus that a substance
luminous in the dark, without having been previously exposed to light, had been observed. I
should like, in passing, to show you how beautifully these phosphorescent powders shine after
having been exposed to a powerful light. See how magnificently brilliant they are! These, or
something like them, were known before the time of Brandt.

Shortly after phosphorus had been discovered, people came to the conclusion that it might be
employed for the purpose of procuring artificial light. But I want you to note, that although
phosphorus was discovered in 1669 (and the general properties of phosphorus seem to have been
studied and were well understood within five years of its discovery), it was not until the
year 1833 that phosphorus matches became a commercial success, so that until the year 1833,
our old friend the tinder-box held its ground. I will try and give you as nearly as I can a
complete list of the various attempts made with the purpose of procuring fire between the years
1669 and 1833.

The first invention was what were called "phosphoric tapers." From the accounts given (although
it is not easy to understand the description), phosphoric tapers seem to have been sulphur
matches with a little piece of phosphorus enclosed in glass fixed on the top of the match,
the idea being that you had only to break the glass and expose the phosphorus to air for it
to catch fire immediately and ignite the sulphur. If this was the notion (although I am not
sure), it is not easy to understand how the phosphoric tapers were worked. The second invention
for the purpose of utilizing phosphorus for getting fire was by scraping with a match a little
phosphorus from a bottle coated with a phosphorus composition, and firing it by friction. The
fact is, phosphorus may be easily ignited by slight friction. If I wrap a small piece of phosphorus
in paper, as I am doing now, and rub the paper on the table, you see I readily fire my phosphorus.

After this, "Homberg's Pyrophorus," consisting of a roasted mixture of alum and flour, was
suggested as a means of obtaining fire. Then comes the "Electrophorus," an electrical instrument
suggested by Volta, which was thought at the time a grand invention for the purpose of getting
light (Fig. 6 A). The nuisance about this instrument was that it proved somewhat capricious
in its action, and altogether declined to work in damp foggy weather. I do not know whether
I shall be successful in lighting a gas-jet with the electrophorus, but I will try. I excite
this plate of resin with a cat-skin (Fig. 6 B), then put this brass plate upon the resin plate
and touch the brass (Fig. 6 C); then take the brass plate off the resin plate by the insulating
handle and draw a spark from it, which I hope will light the gas. There, I have done it! (Fig.
6 D.)

