At times we saw solitary canoes containing a whole family of Indians fishing in the watery
waste. What solemn lives they must lead! But a more solemn and more solitary scene occurred
a little later. All the afternoon we had been sailing under splendid icy peaks. We came in
out of the hot sun, and were glad of the cool, snow-chilled air that visited us lightly at
intervals.

It was the hour of 9.30 p. m. The sun was dropping behind a lofty mountain range, and in its
fine glow we steamed into a lovely cove under a towering height. A deserted, or almost deserted,
fishing village stood upon a green bottom land--a mere handful of lodges, with a young growth
of trees beyond, and an older growth between these and the glacier that was glistening above
them all. A cannery looking nearly new stood at the top of a tall dock on stilts. On the extreme
end of the dock was a figure--a man, and a white man at that--with both hands in his pockets,
and an attitude of half-awakened curiosity. The figure stood stock-still. We wondered if it
lived, if it breathed, or if it was an effigy set up there in scorn of American enterprise.
We slowed up and drew near to the dock. It was a curious picture: a half dozen log-built lodges;
a few tall piles driven into the land for steamer or trading schooner to make fast to; a group
of Indians by a feeble camp fire,--Indians who never once changed their postures more than
to wearily lift their heads and regard us with absolute indifference.

When we were near enough to hail the motionless figure on the dock, we did not hail him. Everybody
was wildly curious: Everybody was perfectly dumb. The whole earth was silent at last; the wheels
had stopped; the boat was scarcely moving through the water. The place, the scene, the hour
seemed under a spell. Then a bell rang very shrilly in the deep silence; the paddles plunged
into the sea again; we made a graceful sweep under the shadow of the great mountain and proudly
steamed away. Not a syllable had been exchanged with that mysterious being on the dock; we
merely touched our hats at the last moment; he lifted his, stalked solemnly to the top of the
dock and disappeared. There is a bit of Alaskan life for you!

CHAPTER VIII.

Juneau.

Sitka, the capital of Alaska, sleeps, save when she is awakened for a day or two by the arrival
of a steamer-load of tourists. Fort Wrangell, the premature offspring of a gold rumor, died,
but rose again from the dead when the lust of gold turned the human tide toward the Klondike.
Juneau, the metropolis, was the only settlement that showed any signs of vigor before the Klondike
day; and she lived a not over-lively village life on the strength of the mines on Douglas Island,
across the narrow straits. There were sea-birds skimming the water as we threaded the labyrinthine
channels that surround Juneau. We were evidently not very far from the coast-line; for the
gulls were only occasional visitors on the Alaskan cruise, though the eagles we had always
with us. They soared aloft among the pines that crowned the mountain heights; they glossed
their wings in the spray of the sky-tipped waterfalls, and looked down upon us from serene
summits with the unwinking eye of scorn. It is awfully fine sailing all about Juneau. Superb
heights, snow-capped in many cases, forest-clad in all, and with cloud belts and sunshine mingling
in the crystalline atmosphere, form a glorious picture, which, oddly enough, one does not view
with amazement and delight, but in the very midst of which, and a very part of which, he is;
and the proud consciousness of this marks one of the happiest moments of his life. 

The distance between high and high water mark at Rivière Ouelle is about a mile and the half and
along this stretch of plage the small fish come in great numbers to its spawn. The wide beach,
bare miners at high water, and this point furnish an admirable combination for the hausen fishery.
There is a considerable point at the rima of the small Rivière Ouelle. At high tide the beluga
comes rushing in nigh to shore after his prey, sometimes in water so shallow that his concept
body arrive into view. The lagoon, with its deep, dark waters, still as a dead
river, yet mirroring the sea-bird's wing; a strip of beach; just above it rows of cabins and
tents that at once suggest the mining camps of early California days; then the rather handsome
quarters of the directors; and then the huge mill, admirably constructed and set so snugly
among the quarries that it seems almost a part of the ore mountain itself; beyond that the
great forest, with its eagles and big game; and the everlasting snow peaks overtopping all,
as they lose themselves in the fairest of summer skies. Small boats ply to and fro between
Douglas Island and Juneau, a mile or more up the inlet on the opposite shore. These ferries
are paddled leisurely, and only the explosive element at Douglas Island gives token of the
activity that prevails at Gastineaux Channel.

Soon, weary of the racket on Douglas Island, and expecting to inspect the mine later on, we
returned across the water and made fast to the dock in the lower end of Juneau. This settlement
has seen a good deal of experience for a young one. It was first known as Pilsbury; then some
humorist dubbed it Fliptown. Later it was called Rockwell and Harrisburg; and finally Juneau,
the name it still bears with more or less dignity. The customary Indian village hangs upon
the borders of the town; in fact, the two wings of the settlement are aboriginal; but the copper-skin
seems not particularly interested in the progress of civilization, further than the occasional
chance it affords him of turning an honest penny in the disposal of his wares.

No sooner was the gang-plank out than we all made a rush for the trading stores in search of
curios. The faculty of acquisitiveness grows with what it feeds on; and before the Alaskan
tour is over, it almost amounts to a mania among the excursionists. You should have seen us--men,
women and children--hurrying along the beach toward the heart of Juneau, where we saw flags
flying from the staves that stood by the trading-stores. It was no easy task to distance a
competitor in those great thoroughfares. Juneau has an annual rainfall of nine feet; the streets
are guttered: indeed the streets are gutters in some cases. I know of at least one little bridge
that carries the pedestrian from one sidewalk to another, over the muddy road below. I was
headed off on my way to the N. W. T. Co.'s warehouse, and sat me down on a stump to write till
the rush on bric-a-brac was over. Meanwhile I noticed the shake shanties and the pioneers who
hung about them, with their long legs crooked under rush chairs in the diminutive verandas.

Indian belles were out in full feather. Some had their faces covered with a thick coating of
soot and oil; the rims of the eyelids, the tip of the nose and the inner portions of the lips
showing in striking contrast to the hideous mask, which they are said to wear in order to preserve
their complexion. They look for the most part like black-faced monkeys, and appear in this
guise a great portion of the time in order to dazzle the town, after a scrubbing, with skins
as fair and sleek as soft-soap. Even some of the sterner sex are constrained to resort to art
in the hope of heightening their manly beauty; but these are, of course, Alaskan dudes, and
as such are doubtless pardonable.

