"Oh! I forgot," she said, twirling round on one leg and holding out a cheek to be kissed. "There's
going to be a party to it."

"So I see," I said; "what sort of a party?"

"Oh! it's the end-up of the dancing class, four to seven; that's why mum asked you to come early."

"She isn't in yet?" I asked innocently.

"Oh! she's not coming," said Hyacinth, raising her eyebrows and laughing; "she always has something
to do on dancing days. The Frauleins get on her nerves. They sit all round the room."

And Hyacinth indicated the position of the Frauleins with a sweep of her arm.

"What time is it now?" I asked.

"Half past three," she said; "I'm ready."

"I'm not," I said savagely.

I went upstairs, vowing vengeance on Zerlina. I could have shaken Hyacinth, poor child, and
why? Because her legs were too long, or her skirts too short, or the bow in her hair too large?
What a disagreeable, cross-grained professional aunt I was! Or did I miss the hug Hyacinth
might have given me?

I was only just ready when the children began to arrive. I flew downstairs and found not only
children in every shape and form, but mothers in big hats and trailing skirts, and Frauleins
in small hats and skirts curtailed, mademoiselles and nannies. The nannies I handed over to
the nursery department, and the mothers and the Frauleins and the mademoiselles I arranged
in a dado round the room, making inappropriate remarks to each in turn. No surprise was expressed
at the absence of Zerlina.

The children began to dance. There was a particularly painstaking little boy in a white silk
shirt and black velvet knickerbockers, very tight in places, who danced assiduously, looking
neither to the right nor to the left. "Right leg, To-mus, left leg, To-mus!" came in stentorian
tones from a Fraulein in the corner, who suited her actions to her words by the uplifting of
the leg corresponding to that recommended to Tomus's consideration, and bringing it down with
emphasis on the parquet floor.

By the sudden quickening of leg-action on the part of my painstaking friend, I knew him to
be Tomus, and by that only, so many of the boys looked as if they might be Tomus. The real
Tomus asserted himself manfully, however, by using the exactly opposite leg to that ordered
by Fraulein. I liked this spirit of independence, and determined to make friends with him so
soon as that dance should be over. I took the liberty of introducing myself; he made no remark
but took me by the hand and led me out on to the landing, and there he found two chairs in
the orthodox position. Into one of these he wriggled himself by a backward and upward movement,
and I sat in the other. How absurdly easy it is for a grown-up to sit down! I waited for Thomas
to make a remark; I might be waiting still, if I had not made a beginning. He looked at me
under his eyelashes, and tried not to smile. It was an effort, I could see, and I could tell
just where the dimples would come. When the effort became too great and the dimples asserted
themselves beyond recall, he looked away and put out a minute portion of his tongue. Having
done that, he subsided into grave self-possession.

I began to feel embarrassed, and asked him how old he was. He smiled. "Do you like dancing,
Thomas?" I said.

He looked away, and every time I addressed him he seemed to retreat farther into his chair,
until I had fears that he would disappear altogether from my sight. His waist-line seemed to
be the vanishing-point. I made no further effort, and relapsed into silence. Thomas continued
to gaze at me and smile. At last he extended a fat little hand, uncurled one by one four soft
little fingers, and revealed, lying in his palm, a short screw. It was evidently his greatest
treasure, for the moment.

"Is that for me, Thomas?" I asked. "Nope," he said, shaking his head.

"Is it your very own?"

