The others were sent to prison, since it was manifestly impossible to execute them all,--nor
was Cromwell so bloodthirsty, now the rebellion was broken utterly,--and some sixteen hundred
of them were sentenced to be transported to the colony of Virginia, which had long been a dumping
ground for convicts and felons and political scapegoats. Hither, then, they came, in ships
crowded to suffocation, and many dead upon the way and thrown to the sharks for burial, but
for some reason only one of the ships stopped here, while the others went on to Barbados to
discharge their living freight. I more than suspect that Cromwell's agents soon discovered
the Commonwealth had few friends in Virginia, and feared the effect of letting loose here so
many of the Royalist soldiers. At any rate, this one ship dropped anchor at Hampton, and its
passengers, to the number of about three hundred, were sold very cheaply to the neighboring
planters. I may as well say here that all of them were well treated by their Cavalier masters,
and many of them afterwards became the founders of what are now the most prominent families
in the colony.

Now one of those who had been sold in Virginia was the Thomas Stewart whom I have already mentioned,
and whom neither stinking jail nor crowded transport had much affected. Doubtless, no matter
what the surroundings, he had only to close his eyes to see again before him the green hills
and plashing brooks of Kincardine, with his own home in the midst, and the bonny wife waiting
at the door, a boy on either side. Alas, it was only thus he was ever to see them this side
heaven. He was bought by a man named Nicholas Spenser, who owned a plantation on the Potomac
in Westmoreland County, and there he worked, first as laborer and then as overseer, for nigh
upon ten years. His master treated him with great kindness, and at the Restoration, having
made tenfold his purchase money by him, gave him back his freedom.

Despite the years and the hard work in the tobacco-fields, Stewart's thoughts had often been
with the wife and children he had left behind in Scotland, and he prevailed upon Spenser to
secure him passage in one of his ships for London, where he arrived early in 1662. He made
his way back to Kincardine, where he found his estate sequestered, his wife and one child dead
in poverty, the other disappeared. From a neighbor he learned that the boy had run away to
sea after his mother's death, but what his fate had been he never knew. Weary and disheartened,
Stewart retraced his steps to London, and after overcoming obstacles innumerable, occasioned
mostly by his want of money, laid his case before the king. Charles listened to him kindly
enough, for his office had not yet grown a burden to him, and finally granted him a patent
for two thousand acres of land along the upper Potomac. It was a gift which cost the king nothing,
and one of a hundred such he bestowed upon his favorites as another man would give a crust
of bread for which he had no use. Stewart returned to Virginia with his patent in his pocket,
and built himself a home in what was then a wilderness.

In five or six years he had cleared near three hundred acres of land, had it planted in sweet-scented
tobacco, for which the Northern Neck was always famous, bought two-score negroes to tend it,
and began to see light ahead. It was at this time that he met Marjorie Usner, while on a visit
to Williamsburg, and he married her in 1670, having in the mean time erected a more spacious
residence than the rude log-hut which had previously been his home. He was at that time a man
nigh fifty years of age, but handsome enough, I dare say, and well preserved by his life of
outdoor toil. Certainly Mistress Marjorie, who must have been much younger, made him a good
wife, and when he died, in 1685, he left a son and a daughter, besides an estate valued at
several thousands of pounds, accumulated with true Scottish thrift. It was this daughter who
named the estate Riverview, and though the house was afterwards remodeled, the name was never
changed. The Stewarts continued to live there, marrying and giving in marriage, and growing
ever wealthier, for the next half century, at the end of which time occurred the events that
brought me into being.

In 1733, Thomas Stewart, great-grandson of the Scotsman, was master of Riverview. His portrait,
which hangs to-day to the left of the fireplace in the great hall, shows him a white-haired,
red-faced, choleric gentleman, with gray eyes and proudly smiling mouth. He had been chosen
a member of the House of Burgesses, as had his father before him, and was one of the most considerable
men in the county. His son, Tom, was just twenty-one, and had inherited from his father the
hasty temper and invincible stubbornness which belong to all the Stewarts.

It was in the fall of 1733 that they made the trip to Williamsburg which was to have such momentous
consequences. The House of Burgesses was in session, and Mr. Stewart, as the custom was, took
his whole family with him to the capital. I fancy I can see them as they looked that day. The
great coach, brought from London at a cost of so many thousand pounds of tobacco, is polished
until it shines again. The four horses are harnessed to it, and Sambo, mouth stretched from
ear to ear, drives it around to the front of the mansion, where a broad flight of stone steps
leads downward from the wide veranda. The footmen and outriders spring to their places, their
liveries agleam with buckles, the planter and his lady and their younger son enter the coach,
while young Tom mounts his horse and prepares to ride by the window. The odorous cedar chests
containing my lady's wardrobe are strapped behind or piled on top, the negroes form a grinning
avenue, the whip cracks, and they are off, half a dozen servants following in an open cart.
It is a four days' journey to Williamsburg, over roads whose roughness tests the coach's strength
to the uttermost but it is the one event of all the year to this isolated family, and small
wonder that they look forward to it with eager anticipation.

Once arrived at Williamsburg, what craning of necks and waving of handkerchiefs and kissing
of hands to acquaintances, as the coach rolls along the wide, white, sandy street, scorching
in the sun, with the governor's house, called by courtesy a palace, at one end, and the College
of William and Mary at the other, and perhaps two hundred straggling wooden houses in between.
The coaches and chariots which line the street give earnest of the families already assembled
from Princess Ann to Fairfax and the Northern Neck. My lady notes that the Burkes have at last
got them a new chariot from London, and her husband looks with appreciative eyes at the handsome
team of matched grays which draw it. As for young Tom, his eyes, I warrant, are on none of
these, but on the bevy of blooming girls who promenade the side-path, arrayed in silks and
satins and brocades, their eyes alight, their cheeks aglow with the joy of youth and health.
Small blame to him, say I, for that is just where my own eyes would have been.

That very night Governor Gooch gave a ball at his palace, and be sure the Stewart family was
there, my lady in her new London gown of flowered damask in the very latest mode, and Tom in
his best suit of peach-blossom velvet, and in great hopes of attracting to himself some of
the bright eyes he had seen that afternoon. Nor was he wholly unsuccessful, for one pair of
black eyes rested on his for a moment,--they were those of Mistress Patricia Wyeth,--and he
straightway fell a victim to their charms, as what young man with warm heart and proper spirit
would not? Young Tom must himself have possessed unusual attractions, or a boldness in wooing
which his son does not inherit, for at the end of a week he disturbed his father at his morning
dram to inform him that he and Mistress Patricia had decided to get married.

"Married!" cried the elder Stewart. "Why, damme, sir, do you know who the Wyeths are?"

"I know who Patricia is," answered young Tom very proudly, his head well up at this first sign
of opposition. "I care naught about the rest of them."

"But I care, sir!" shouted his father. "Why, the girl won't have a shilling to bless herself
with. Old Wyeth has gambled away every penny he possesses, and a good many more than he possesses,
too, so they tell me, at his infernal horse-racing and cock-fighting, and God knows what else.
A gentleman may play, sir,--I throw the dice occasionally, myself, and love to see a well-matched,
race as well as any man,--but he ceases to be a gentleman the moment he plays beyond his means,--a
fact which you will do well to remember. A pretty match for a Stewart 'pon my word!"

During this harangue young Tom would have interrupted more than once, but his father silenced
him with a passionate waving of his arm. At last he was compelled to pause for want of breath
to say more, and the boy got in a word.

"All this is beside the point, father," he said hotly. "My word is given, and I intend to keep
it. Even if it were not given, I should still do my best to win Patricia, because I love her."

"Love her, and welcome!" cried his father. "Marry her, if you want to. But you'll never bring
a pauper like that inside my house while I am alive."

"Nor after you are dead, if you do not wish it," answered Tom, with his head higher in the
air than ever.

"No, nor after I am dead!" thundered the old man, his anger no doubt carrying him farther than
he intended going. "You are acting like a scoundrel, sir. You know well enough I can't cut
you out of the estate, since you are the eldest, so you think to take advantage of me."

"Never fear, sir," cried Tom, his lips white with anger and his eyes ablaze. "You shall ask
me back to Riverview yourself ere I return there; yes, and beg my wife's pardon for insulting her."

"Then, by God, you'll never return!" snorted his father, and without waiting to hear more,
Tom stalked from the room and from the house. I think even then his father would have called
him back, had the boy given him the chance, and his face was less red than usual when he heard
the street door slam.

Of course there was a great to-do immediately. Tom's mother interceded for him, and I doubt
not a single word on his part would have won full pardon from his father, but one was no less
stubborn than the other, and the word was never spoken. When Mistress Patricia heard of the
quarrel, she straightway informed her lover that she would never marry him and ruin his inheritance,
and returned to her home above Charles City, taking her old reprobate of a father with her,
where he died not long afterwards, perhaps finding life not worth living when there remained
no one who would take his wagers.

At the close of the session, the Stewart coach rolled back to Riverview, but young Tom did
not ride beside it. He remained at Williamsburg, and managed to pick up a scanty practice as
an attorney, for he had read a little law in want of something better to do, and to fit himself
for his coming honors as a member of the House of Burgesses. And at Riverview his father moped
in his office and about his fields, growing ever more crabbed and more obstinate, and falling
into a rage whenever any one dared mention Tom's name before him.

It was in the spring of 1734 that Tom Stewart mounted his horse and rode out of Williamsburg
across the Chickahominy, to try his fortune once more with Patricia Wyeth. The winter had been
a hard one for a man brought up as Tom had been, and that suit of peach-bloom velvet had long
since been converted into bread. Yet still he made a gallant figure when, on the evening of
an April day, he cantered up the road to Patricia's home, and I dare say the heart of the owner
of those bright eyes which peeped out upon him from an upper window beat faster when they saw
him coming. But it was a very demure little maiden who met him at the great door as he entered,
and gave him her hand to kiss. She was all in white, with a sprig of blossoms in her hair,
and she must have made a pretty picture standing there, and one to warm the heart of any man.

Of the week that followed, neither my father nor my mother ever told me much,--its memories
were too sweet to trust to words, perhaps,--but the event was, that on the first day of May,
1734, Thomas Stewart, attorney, and Patricia Wyeth, spinster, were made man and wife in Westover
church by the Reverend Peter Fontaine, of sainted memory. How well I recall his benign face,
and what tears of affectionate remembrance brimmed my eyes when I heard, not long ago, that
he was dead! The closing sentences of his will show how he ever thought of others and not of
himself, for he wrote: "My will and desire is, that I may have no public funeral, but that
my corpse may be accompanied by a few of my nearest neighbors; that no liquors be given to
make any of the company drunk,--many instances of which I have seen, to the great scandal of
the Christian religion and abuse of so solemn an ordinance. I desire none of my family to go
in mourning for me." His sister sent me a copy of the will, and a very pretty letter, in which
she told me how her brother often spoke of me, and wished me to have his Bible. It is there
on the shelf at my bedside, and while God gives me life I will read in no other.

It was in the modest Wyeth homestead, on the bank of the James, that my father and mother entered
upon their honeymoon. Of the depth of their love for each other I know best of all, and the
summer slipped away on golden wings. My father thought no more of returning to Williamsburg,
nor did he greatly regret Riverview. He wrote a formal letter to his mother announcing his
marriage, but no answer came to it, and I doubt not that worthy woman sobbed herself to sleep
more than once in grieving over the obstinacy of her husband and her son. Dear lady, it was
this trouble which did much to shorten her days, and the end came soon afterwards. 'T is said
that on her deathbed she tried to soften her husband's heart against their boy, but with such
ill success that she fell sobbing into the sleep from which she was never to awaken. To such
a degree can a fault persisted in change the natural humor of a man.

My father, perhaps, hoped for a reply to his letter, but he showed no sign of disappointment
when none came, and never spoke upon the subject to my mother. He soon found enough in his
affairs at home to occupy his mind, for old Samuel Wyeth had left the estate sadly incumbered
with his debts, and more than half of it was sacrificed to save the rest. With care and frugality,
there yet remained enough to live on, and for the first year, at least, there came no cloud
to dim their happiness. Their cup of joy was full to overflowing, so my mother often told me,
when, on the night of April 15,1735, a child was born to them. It was a boy, and a week later,
before the altar of the little Westover church, its worthy rector christened the child "Thomas
Stewart," the fifth of his line in the New World.

CHAPTER IV

THE ENDING OF THE HONEYMOON

