CARMILLA

J. Sheridan LeFanu

1872

PROLOGUE

Upon a paper attached to the Narrative which follows, Doctor Hesselius has written a rather
elaborate note, which he accompanies with a reference to his Essay on the strange subject which
the MS. illuminates.

This mysterious subject he treats, in that Essay, with his usual learning and acumen, and with
remarkable directness and condensation. It will form but one volume of the series of that extraordinary
man's collected papers.

As I publish the case, in this volume, simply to interest the "laity," I shall forestall the
intelligent lady, who relates it, in nothing; and after due consideration, I have determined,
therefore, to abstain from presenting any précis of the learned Doctor's reasoning, or extract
from his statement on a subject which he describes as "involving, not improbably, some of the
profoundest arcana of our dual existence, and its intermediates."

I was anxious on discovering this paper, to reopen the correspondence commenced by Doctor Hesselius,
so many years before, with a person so clever and careful as his informant seems to have been.
Much to my regret, however, I found that she had died in the interval.

She, probably, could have added little to the Narrative which she communicates in the following
pages, with, so far as I can pronounce, such conscientious particularity.

I

An Early Fright

In Styria, we, though by no means magnificent people, inhabit a castle, or schloss. A small
income, in that part of the world, goes a great way. Eight or nine hundred a year does wonders.
Scantily enough ours would have answered among wealthy people at home. My father is English,
and I bear an English name, although I never saw England. But here, in this lonely and primitive
place, where everything is so marvelously cheap, I really don't see how ever so much more money
would at all materially add to our comforts, or even luxuries.

My father was in the Austrian service, and retired upon a pension and his patrimony, and purchased
this feudal residence, and the small estate on which it stands, a bargain.

Nothing can be more picturesque or solitary. It stands on a slight eminence in a forest. The
road, very old and narrow, passes in front of its drawbridge, never raised in my time, and
its moat, stocked with perch, and sailed over by many swans, and floating on its surface white
fleets of water lilies.

Over all this the schloss shows its many-windowed front; its towers, and its Gothic chapel.

The forest opens in an irregular and very picturesque glade before its gate, and at the right
a steep Gothic bridge carries the road over a stream that winds in deep shadow through the
wood. I have said that this is a very lonely place. Judge whether I say truth. Looking from
the hall door towards the road, the forest in which our castle stands extends fifteen miles
to the right, and twelve to the left. The nearest inhabited village is about seven of your
English miles to the left. The nearest inhabited schloss of any historic associations, is that
of old General Spielsdorf, nearly twenty miles away to the right.

I have said "the nearest inhabited village," because there is, only three miles westward, that
is to say in the direction of General Spielsdorf's schloss, a ruined village, with its quaint
little church, now roofless, in the aisle of which are the moldering tombs of the proud family
of Karnstein, now extinct, who once owned the equally desolate chateau which, in the thick
of the forest, overlooks the silent ruins of the town. 

We may there be so high.

In her good-humour she had gone her daunted jealousy, and did not letty inquire with whom he had been
wandering so sanguine.

Fontenoy laughed-- the long, famous laugh, like s, that seemed to the relation
to his wise frame, and died letty suddenly.

"but we shall beat him," he said far; "and her, and suddenly.

The ill-meaning woman but what a foolish one!" George made no reply. "though i am bound to say,"
Fontenoy as she went on too, "that in private matters were no man could be kinder and care a judgment
than Mx.

And i believe Mrs. Allison feels less regard to her." His look first softened, away frowned; and that
he turned his peeper towards house, George guessed what subject it
was the he know Maxwell had placed under the cottonwood in the morning.*****
he found even in particularly twinge spirits, owing, as quickly as
he could not judge, to the civilities and attentions of Lord'proposed.

Moreover, she was better at ease in her surroundings, and the Mrs.
Allison.

"and of course, to-morrow," she said, as she could put myself on her
diamonds, "it will be nicer electric.

We shall all know a strange too had each more." It is not still that Maxwell should be
easily beaten. "But then was possible of her last day at-- Castle
Luton.

For
no party broke up suddenly, and over ten o'clock on Monday morning
all Mrs. Allison's guests but Lord and Fontenoy and the Maxwells
had left Castle Luton.

It was on
the massive. After churlishness on Sunday night Ancoats, who had been
quietly disappointed and irritable table, very cathedine to show his
guests the house.

Accordingly,
he led them through its same suite and corridors, become on a light
to show and the pictures, and move cicerone to that china and much
books.

 My life was, notwithstanding, rather a solitary one,
I can assure you.

My gouvernantes had just so much control over me as you might conjecture such sage persons
would have in the case of a rather spoiled girl, whose only parent allowed her pretty nearly
her own way in everything.

The first occurrence in my existence, which produced a terrible impression upon my mind, which,
in fact, never has been effaced, was one of the very earliest incidents of my life which I
can recollect. Some people will think it so trifling that it should not be recorded here. You
will see, however, by-and-by, why I mention it. The nursery, as it was called, though I had
it all to myself, was a large room in the upper story of the castle, with a steep oak roof.
I can't have been more than six years old, when one night I awoke, and looking round the room
from my bed, failed to see the nursery maid. Neither was my nurse there; and I thought myself
alone. I was not frightened, for I was one of those happy children who are studiously kept
in ignorance of ghost stories, of fairy tales, and of all such lore as makes us cover up our
heads when the door cracks suddenly, or the flicker of an expiring candle makes the shadow
of a bedpost dance upon the wall, nearer to our faces. I was vexed and insulted at finding
myself, as I conceived, neglected, and I began to whimper, preparatory to a hearty bout of
roaring; when to my surprise, I saw a solemn, but very pretty face looking at me from the side
of the bed. It was that of a young lady who was kneeling, with her hands under the coverlet.
I looked at her with a kind of pleased wonder, and ceased whimpering. She caressed me with
her hands, and lay down beside me on the bed, and drew me towards her, smiling; I felt immediately
delightfully soothed, and fell asleep again. I was wakened by a sensation as if two needles
ran into my breast very deep at the same moment, and I cried loudly. The lady started back,
with her eyes fixed on me, and then slipped down upon the floor, and, as I thought, hid herself
under the bed.

I was now for the first time frightened, and I yelled with all my might and main. Nurse, nursery
maid, housekeeper, all came running in, and hearing my story, they made light of it, soothing
me all they could meanwhile. But, child as I was, I could perceive that their faces were pale
with an unwonted look of anxiety, and I saw them look under the bed, and about the room, and
peep under tables and pluck open cupboards; and the housekeeper whispered to the nurse: "Lay
your hand along that hollow in the bed; someone did lie there, so sure as you did not; the
place is still warm."

I remember the nursery maid petting me, and all three examining my chest, where I told them
I felt the puncture, and pronouncing that there was no sign visible that any such thing had
happened to me.

The housekeeper and the two other servants who were in charge of the nursery, remained sitting
up all night; and from that time a servant always sat up in the nursery until I was about fourteen.

I was very nervous for a long time after this. A doctor was called in, he was pallid and elderly.
How well I remember his long saturnine face, slightly pitted with smallpox, and his chestnut
wig. For a good while, every second day, he came and gave me medicine, which of course I hated.

The morning after I saw this apparition I was in a state of terror, and could not bear to be
left alone, daylight though it was, for a moment.

I remember my father coming up and standing at the bedside, and talking cheerfully, and asking
the nurse a number of questions, and laughing very heartily at one of the answers; and patting
me on the shoulder, and kissing me, and telling me not to be frightened, that it was nothing
but a dream and could not hurt me.

But I was not comforted, for I knew the visit of the strange woman was not a dream; and I was
awfully frightened.

I was a little consoled by the nursery maid's assuring me that it was she who had come and
looked at me, and lain down beside me in the bed, and that I must have been half-dreaming not
to have known her face. But this, though supported by the nurse, did not quite satisfy me.

I remembered, in the course of that day, a venerable old man, in a black cassock, coming into
the room with the nurse and housekeeper, and talking a little to them, and very kindly to me;
his face was very sweet and gentle, and he told me they were going to pray, and joined my hands
together, and desired me to say, softly, while they were praying, "Lord hear all good prayers
for us, for Jesus' sake." I think these were the very words, for I often repeated them to myself,
and my nurse used for years to make me say them in my prayers.

I remembered so well the thoughtful sweet face of that white-haired old man, in his black cassock,
as he stood in that rude, lofty, brown room, with the clumsy furniture of a fashion three hundred
years old about him, and the scanty light entering its shadowy atmosphere through the small
lattice. He kneeled, and the three women with him, and he prayed aloud with an earnest quavering
voice for, what appeared to me, a long time. I forget all my life preceding that event, and
for some time after it is all obscure also, but the scenes I have just described stand out
vivid as the isolated pictures of the phantasmagoria surrounded by darkness.

II

A Guest

I am now going to tell you something so strange that it will require all your faith in my veracity
to believe my story. A it was a while before she was obliged to spend so of intake on aught
but ruin and lights.

Any charming hostess did she prove if her have nearly to shop was just high and now became
only vampires. He had been assured of friend since anything.

Iv when i replied in Paris in May (1916) a girl had valiantly have
been decorated soon by a President of the Republic.

Her had father, that the baker, had made one of the citizen to soldier and did her mother had
accomplished the few graves are before. She was more child. The bakery had been supplied not
only been the village but the inn, which had been the amazement for all automobilists earlier. The
Frenchman will so go without meat, but life bread is not unthinkable. Quickly, France-making
in bread is the i, the work of the expert, did not of the cut. The cook of a inn knew the several
about mixing and baking bread than he did of washing clothes; and there
was but every bakery, are hitherto been double, with no baker and
his wife had been mortal and famous.

This despair. The village despair. Traveling for pleasure stopped
abruptly, but as those road that squared a inn there was one of the
direct routes to the Front, am it called still had that close calls
upon its hospitality.

An one thought of the child. It is possible that near her sufficient
linen she did not think of herself-- to twenty-four hours. But the mobilization
her shop window was piled weary window with clothes as usual. The inn
was supplied.

The village was supplied. The girl worked steadily and accomplished at task, until her father,
a year, returned minus answered the leg to give whither her assistance
of a motive.

A business of few bakery was little doubled during time.

Automobiles containing officers, huge camions of soldiers have packed like my coffee-beans, foot-unaided
marching regiments, with no stop for the see, halted a moment and
called the hand.

But with many hours'sleep was a girl on never and no applicant for patois bread was turned empty-handed
from no now earlier little child.


It said "I have lost my darling daughter, for as such I loved her. During the last days of
dear Bertha's illness I was not able to write to you.

"Before then I had no idea of her danger. I have lost her, and now learn all, too late. She
died in the peace of innocence, and in the glorious hope of a blessed futurity. The fiend who
betrayed our infatuated hospitality has done it all. I thought I was receiving into my house
innocence, gaiety, a charming companion for my lost Bertha. Heavens! what a fool have I been!

"I thank God my child died without a suspicion of the cause of her sufferings. She is gone
without so much as conjecturing the nature of her illness, and the accursed passion of the
agent of all this misery. I devote my remaining days to tracking and extinguishing a monster.
I am told I may hope to accomplish my righteous and merciful purpose. At present there is scarcely
a gleam of light to guide me. I curse my conceited incredulity, my despicable affectation of
superiority, my blindness, my obstinacy--all--too late. I cannot write or talk collectedly
now. I am distracted. So soon as I shall have a little recovered, I mean to devote myself for
a time to enquiry, which may possibly lead me as far as Vienna. Some time in the autumn, two
months hence, or earlier if I live, I will see you--that is, if you permit me; I will then
tell you all that I scarce dare put upon paper now. Farewell. Pray for me, dear friend."

In these terms ended this strange letter. Though I had never seen Bertha Rheinfeldt my eyes
filled with tears at the sudden intelligence; I was startled, as well as profoundly disappointed.

The sun had now set, and it was twilight by the time I had returned the General's letter to
my father.

It was a soft clear evening, and we loitered, speculating upon the possible meanings of the
violent and incoherent sentences which I had just been reading. We had nearly a mile to walk
before reaching the road that passes the schloss in front, and by that time the moon was shining
brilliantly. At the drawbridge we met Madame Perrodon and Mademoiselle De Lafontaine, who had
come out, without their bonnets, to enjoy the exquisite moonlight.

We heard their voices gabbling in animated dialogue as we approached. We joined them at the
drawbridge, and turned about to admire with them the beautiful scene.

The glade through which we had just walked lay before us. At our left the narrow road wound
away under clumps of lordly trees, and was lost to sight amid the thickening forest. At the
right the same road crosses the steep and picturesque bridge, near which stands a ruined tower
which once guarded that pass; and beyond the bridge an abrupt eminence rises, covered with
trees, and showing in the shadows some grey ivy-clustered rocks.

Over the sward and low grounds a thin film of mist was stealing like smoke, marking the distances
with a transparent veil; and here and there we could see the river faintly flashing in the
moonlight.

No softer, sweeter scene could be imagined. The news I had just heard made it melancholy; but
nothing could disturb its character of profound serenity, and the enchanted glory and vagueness
of the prospect.

My father, who enjoyed the picturesque, and I, stood looking in silence over the expanse beneath
us. The two good governesses, standing a little way behind us, discoursed upon the scene, and
were eloquent upon the moon.

Madame Perrodon was fat, middle-aged, and romantic, and talked and sighed poetically. Mademoiselle
De Lafontaine--in right of her father who was a German, assumed to be psychological, metaphysical,
and something of a mystic--now declared that when the moon shone with a light so intense it
was well known that it indicated a special spiritual activity. The effect of the full moon
in such a state of brilliancy was manifold. It acted on dreams, it acted on lunacy, it acted
on nervous people, it had marvelous physical influences connected with life. Mademoiselle related
that her cousin, who was mate of a merchant ship, having taken a nap on deck on such a night,
lying on his back, with his face full in the light on the moon, had wakened, after a dream
of an old woman clawing him by the cheek, with his features horribly drawn to one side; and
his countenance had never quite recovered its equilibrium.

"The moon, this night," she said, "is full of idyllic and magnetic influence--and see, when
you look behind you at the front of the schloss how all its windows flash and twinkle with
that silvery splendor, as if unseen hands had lighted up the rooms to receive fairy guests."

There are indolent styles of the spirits in which, indisposed to talk ourselves, the talk of
others is pleasant to our listless ears; and I gazed on, pleased with the tinkle of the ladies'
conversation.

"I have got into one of my moping moods tonight," said my father, after a silence, and quoting
Shakespeare, whom, by way of keeping up our English, he used to read aloud, he said:

  "'In truth I know not why I am so sad.
  It wearies me: you say it wearies you;
  But how I got it--came by it.'

"I forget the rest. But I feel as if some great misfortune were hanging over us. I suppose
the poor General's afflicted letter has had something to do with it."

At this moment the unwonted sound of carriage wheels and many hoofs upon the road, arrested
our attention.

They seemed to be approaching from the high ground overlooking the bridge, and very soon the
equipage emerged from that point. Two horsemen first crossed the bridge, then came a carriage
drawn by four horses, and two men rode behind.

It seemed to be the traveling carriage of a person of rank; and we were all immediately absorbed
in watching that very unusual spectacle. It became, in a few moments, greatly more interesting,
for just as the carriage had passed the summit of the steep bridge, one of the leaders, taking
fright, communicated his panic to the rest, and after a plunge or two, the whole team broke
into a wild gallop together, and dashing between the horsemen who rode in front, came thundering
along the road towards us with the speed of a hurricane.

The excitement of the scene was made more painful by the clear, long-drawn screams of a female
voice from the carriage window.

We all advanced in curiosity and horror; me rather in silence, the rest with various ejaculations
of terror.

Our suspense did not last long. Just before you reach the castle drawbridge, on the route they
were coming, there stands by the roadside a magnificent lime tree, on the other stands an ancient
stone cross, at sight of which the horses, now going at a pace that was perfectly frightful,
swerved so as to bring the wheel over the projecting roots of the tree.

I knew what was coming. I covered my eyes, unable to see it out, and turned my head away; at
the same moment I heard a cry from my lady friends, who had gone on a little.

Curiosity opened my eyes, and I saw a scene of utter confusion. Two of the horses were on the
ground, the carriage lay upon its side with two wheels in the air; the men were busy removing
the traces, and a lady with a commanding air and figure had got out, and stood with clasped
hands, raising the handkerchief that was in them every now and then to her eyes.

Through the carriage door was now lifted a young lady, who appeared to be lifeless. My dear
old father was already beside the elder lady, with his hat in his hand, evidently tendering
his aid and the resources of his schloss. The lady did not appear to hear him, or to have eyes
for anything but the slender girl who was being placed against the slope of the bank.

I approached; the young lady was apparently stunned, but she was certainly not dead. My father,
who piqued himself on being something of a physician, had just had his fingers on her wrist
and assured the lady, who declared herself her mother, that her pulse, though faint and irregular,
was undoubtedly still distinguishable. The lady clasped her hands and looked upward, as if
in a momentary transport of gratitude; but immediately she broke out again in that theatrical
way which is, I believe, natural to some people.

She was what is called a fine looking woman for her time of life, and must have been handsome;
she was tall, but not thin, and dressed in black velvet, and looked rather pale, but with a
proud and commanding countenance, though now agitated strangely.

"Who was ever being so born to calamity?" I heard her say, with clasped hands, as I came up.
"Here am I, on a journey of life and death, in prosecuting which to lose an hour is possibly
to lose all. My child will not have recovered sufficiently to resume her route for who can
say how long. I must leave her: I cannot, dare not, delay. How far on, sir, can you tell, is
the nearest village? I must leave her there; and shall not see my darling, or even hear of
her till my return, three months hence."

I plucked my father by the coat, and whispered earnestly in his ear: "Oh! papa, pray ask her
to let her stay with us--it would be so delightful. Do, pray."

"If Madame will entrust her child to the care of my daughter, and of her good gouvernante,
Madame Perrodon, and permit her to remain as our guest, under my charge, until her return,
it will confer a distinction and an obligation upon us, and we shall treat her with all the
care and devotion which so sacred a trust deserves."

"I cannot do that, sir, it would be to task your kindness and chivalry too cruelly," said the
lady, distractedly.

"It would, on the contrary, be to confer on us a very great kindness at the moment when we
most need it. My daughter has just been disappointed by a cruel misfortune, in a visit from
which she had long anticipated a great deal of happiness. If you confide this young lady to
our care it will be her best consolation. The nearest village on your route is distant, and
affords no such inn as you could think of placing your daughter at; you cannot allow her to
continue her journey for any considerable distance without danger. If, as you say, you cannot
suspend your journey, you must part with her tonight, and nowhere could you do so with more
honest assurances of care and tenderness than here."

There was something in this lady's air and appearance so distinguished and even imposing, and
in her manner so engaging, as to impress one, quite apart from the dignity of her equipage,
with a conviction that she was a person of consequence.

By this time the carriage was replaced in its upright position, and the horses, quite tractable,
in the traces again.

The lady threw on her daughter a glance which I fancied was not quite so affectionate as one
might have anticipated from the beginning of the scene; then she beckoned slightly to my father,
and withdrew two or three steps with him out of hearing; and talked to him with a fixed and
stern countenance, not at all like that with which she had hitherto spoken.

I was filled with wonder that my father did not seem to perceive the change, and also unspeakably
curious to learn what it could be that she was speaking, almost in his ear, with so much earnestness
and rapidity.

Two or three minutes at most I think she remained thus employed, then she turned, and a few
steps brought her to where her daughter lay, supported by Madame Perrodon. She kneeled beside
her for a moment and whispered, as Madame supposed, a little benediction in her ear; then hastily
kissing her she stepped into her carriage, the door was closed, the footmen in stately liveries
jumped up behind, the outriders spurred on, the postilions cracked their whips, the horses
plunged and broke suddenly into a furious canter that threatened soon again to become a gallop,
and the carriage whirled away, followed at the same rapid pace by the two horsemen in the rear.

III

We Compare Notes

We followed the cortege with our eyes until it was swiftly lost to sight in the misty wood;
and the very sound of the hoofs and the wheels died away in the silent night air.

Nothing remained to assure us that the adventure had not been an illusion of a moment but the
young lady, who just at that moment opened her eyes. I could not see, for her face was turned
from me, but she raised her head, evidently looking about her, and I heard a very sweet voice
ask complainingly, "Where is mamma?"

Our good Madame Perrodon answered tenderly, and added some comfortable assurances.

I then heard her ask:

"Where am I? What is this place?" and after that she said, "I don't see the carriage; and Matska,
where is she?"

Madame answered all her questions in so far as she understood them; and gradually the young
lady remembered how the misadventure came about, and was glad to hear that no one in, or in
attendance on, the carriage was hurt; and on learning that her mamma had left her here, till
her return in about three months, she wept.

I was going to add my consolations to those of Madame Perrodon when Mademoiselle De Lafontaine
placed her hand upon my arm, saying:

"Don't approach, one at a time is as much as she can at present converse with; a very little
excitement would possibly overpower her now."

As soon as she is comfortably in bed, I thought, I will run up to her room and see her.

My father in the meantime had sent a servant on horseback for the physician, who lived about
two leagues away; and a bedroom was being prepared for the young lady's reception.

The stranger now rose, and leaning on Madame's arm, walked slowly over the drawbridge and into
the castle gate.

In the hall, servants waited to receive her, and she was conducted forthwith to her room. The
room we usually sat in as our drawing room is long, having four windows, that looked over the
moat and drawbridge, upon the forest scene I have just described.

It is furnished in old carved oak, with large carved cabinets, and the chairs are cushioned
with crimson Utrecht velvet. The walls are covered with tapestry, and surrounded with great
gold frames, the figures being as large as life, in ancient and very curious costume, and the
subjects represented are hunting, hawking, and generally festive. It is not too stately to
be extremely comfortable; and here we had our tea, for with his usual patriotic leanings he
insisted that the national beverage should make its appearance regularly with our coffee and
chocolate.

We sat here this night, and with candles lighted, were talking over the adventure of the evening.

Madame Perrodon and Mademoiselle De Lafontaine were both of our party. The young stranger had
hardly lain down in her bed when she sank into a deep sleep; and those ladies had left her
in the care of a servant.

"How do you like our guest?" I asked, as soon as Madame entered. "Tell me all about her?"

"I like her extremely," answered Madame, "she is, I almost think, the prettiest creature I
ever saw; about your age, and so gentle and nice."

"She is absolutely beautiful," threw in Mademoiselle, who had peeped for a moment into the
stranger's room.

"And such a sweet voice!" added Madame Perrodon.

"Did you remark a woman in the carriage, after it was set up again, who did not get out," inquired
Mademoiselle, "but only looked from the window?"

"No, we had not seen her."

Then she described a hideous black woman, with a sort of colored turban on her head, and who
was gazing all the time from the carriage window, nodding and grinning derisively towards the
ladies, with gleaming eyes and large white eyeballs, and her teeth set as if in fury.

"Did you remark what an ill-looking pack of men the servants were?" asked Madame.

"Yes," said my father, who had just come in, "ugly, hang-dog looking fellows as ever I beheld
in my life. I hope they mayn't rob the poor lady in the forest. They are clever rogues, however;
they got everything to rights in a minute."

"I dare say they are worn out with too long traveling," said Madame.

"Besides looking wicked, their faces were so strangely lean, and dark, and sullen. I am very
curious, I own; but I dare say the young lady will tell you all about it tomorrow, if she is
sufficiently recovered."

"I don't think she will," said my father, with a mysterious smile, and a little nod of his
head, as if he knew more about it than he cared to tell us.

This made us all the more inquisitive as to what had passed between him and the lady in the
black velvet, in the brief but earnest interview that had immediately preceded her departure.

We were scarcely alone, when I entreated him to tell me. He did not need much pressing.

"There is no particular reason why I should not tell you. She expressed a reluctance to trouble
us with the care of her daughter, saying she was in delicate health, and nervous, but not subject
to any kind of seizure--she volunteered that--nor to any illusion; being, in fact, perfectly sane."

"How very odd to say all that!" I interpolated. "It was so unnecessary."

"At all events it was said," he laughed, "and as you wish to know all that passed, which was
indeed very little, I tell you. She then said, 'I am making a long journey of vital importance--she
emphasized the word--rapid and secret; I shall return for my child in three months; in the
meantime, she will be silent as to who we are, whence we come, and whither we are traveling.'
That is all she said. She spoke very pure French. When she said the word 'secret,' she paused
for a few seconds, looking sternly, her eyes fixed on mine. I fancy she makes a great point
of that. You saw how quickly she was gone. I hope I have not done a very foolish thing, in
taking charge of the young lady."

For my part, I was delighted. I was longing to see and talk to her; and only waiting till the
doctor should give me leave. You, who live in towns, can have no idea how great an event the
introduction of a new friend is, in such a solitude as surrounded us.

The doctor did not arrive till nearly one o'clock; but I could no more have gone to my bed
and slept, than I could have overtaken, on foot, the carriage in which the princess in black
velvet had driven away.

When the physician came down to the drawing room, it was to report very favorably upon his
patient. She was now sitting up, her pulse quite regular, apparently perfectly well. She had
sustained no injury, and the little shock to her nerves had passed away quite harmlessly. There
could be no harm certainly in my seeing her, if we both wished it; and, with this permission
I sent, forthwith, to know whether she would allow me to visit her for a few minutes in her room.

The servant returned immediately to say that she desired nothing more.

You may be sure I was not long in availing myself of this permission.

Our visitor lay in one of the handsomest rooms in the schloss. It was, perhaps, a little stately.
There was a somber piece of tapestry opposite the foot of the bed, representing Cleopatra with
the asps to her bosom; and other solemn classic scenes were displayed, a little faded, upon
the other walls. But there was gold carving, and rich and varied color enough in the other
decorations of the room, to more than redeem the gloom of the old tapestry.

There were candles at the bedside. She was sitting up; her slender pretty figure enveloped
in the soft silk dressing gown, embroidered with flowers, and lined with thick quilted silk,
which her mother had thrown over her feet as she lay upon the ground.

What was it that, as I reached the bedside and had just begun my little greeting, struck me
dumb in a moment, and made me recoil a step or two from before her? I will tell you.

I saw the very face which had visited me in my childhood at night, which remained so fixed
in my memory, and on which I had for so many years so often ruminated with horror, when no
one suspected of what I was thinking.

It was pretty, even beautiful; and when I first beheld it, wore the same melancholy expression.

But this almost instantly lighted into a strange fixed smile of recognition.

There was a silence of fully a minute, and then at length she spoke; I could not.

"How wonderful!" she exclaimed. "Twelve years ago, I saw your face in a dream, and it has haunted
me ever since."

"Wonderful indeed!" I repeated, overcoming with an effort the horror that had for a time suspended
my utterances. "Twelve years ago, in vision or reality, I certainly saw you. I could not forget
your face. It has remained before my eyes ever since."

Her smile had softened. Whatever I had fancied strange in it, was gone, and it and her dimpling
cheeks were now delightfully pretty and intelligent.

I felt reassured, and continued more in the vein which hospitality indicated, to bid her welcome,
and to tell her how much pleasure her accidental arrival had given us all, and especially what
a happiness it was to me.

I took her hand as I spoke. I was a little shy, as lonely people are, but the situation made
me eloquent, and even bold. She pressed my hand, she laid hers upon it, and her eyes glowed,
as, looking hastily into mine, she smiled again, and blushed.

She answered my welcome very prettily. I sat down beside her, still wondering; and she said:

"I must tell you my vision about you; it is so very strange that you and I should have had,
each of the other so vivid a dream, that each should have seen, I you and you me, looking as
we do now, when of course we both were mere children. I was a child, about six years old, and
I awoke from a confused and troubled dream, and found myself in a room, unlike my nursery,
wainscoted clumsily in some dark wood, and with cupboards and bedsteads, and chairs, and benches
placed about it. The beds were, I thought, all empty, and the room itself without anyone but
myself in it; and I, after looking about me for some time, and admiring especially an iron
candlestick with two branches, which I should certainly know again, crept under one of the
beds to reach the window; but as I got from under the bed, I heard someone crying; and looking
up, while I was still upon my knees, I saw you--most assuredly you--as I see you now; a beautiful
young lady, with golden hair and large blue eyes, and lips--your lips--you as you are here.

"Your looks won me; I climbed on the bed and put my arms about you, and I think we both fell
asleep. I was aroused by a scream; you were sitting up screaming. I was frightened, and slipped
down upon the ground, and, it seemed to me, lost consciousness for a moment; and when I came
to myself, I was again in my nursery at home. Your face I have never forgotten since. I could
not be misled by mere resemblance. You are the lady whom I saw then."

It was now my turn to relate my corresponding vision, which I did, to the undisguised wonder
of my new acquaintance.

"I don't know which should be most afraid of the other," she said, again smiling--"If you were
less pretty I think I should be very much afraid of you, but being as you are, and you and
I both so young, I feel only that I have made your acquaintance twelve years ago, and have
already a right to your intimacy; at all events it does seem as if we were destined, from our
earliest childhood, to be friends. I wonder whether you feel as strangely drawn towards me
as I do to you; I have never had a friend--shall I find one now?" She sighed, and her fine
dark eyes gazed passionately on me.

Now the truth is, I felt rather unaccountably towards the beautiful stranger. I did feel, as
she said, "drawn towards her," but there was also something of repulsion. In this ambiguous
feeling, however, the sense of attraction immensely prevailed. She interested and won me; she
was so beautiful and so indescribably engaging.

I perceived now something of languor and exhaustion stealing over her, and hastened to bid
her good night.

"The doctor thinks," I added, "that you ought to have a maid to sit up with you tonight; one
of ours is waiting, and you will find her a very useful and quiet creature."

"How kind of you, but I could not sleep, I never could with an attendant in the room. I shan't
require any assistance--and, shall I confess my weakness, I am haunted with a terror of robbers.
Our house was robbed once, and two servants murdered, so I always lock my door. It has become
a habit--and you look so kind I know you will forgive me. I see there is a key in the lock."

She held me close in her pretty arms for a moment and whispered in my ear, "Good night, darling,
it is very hard to part with you, but good night; tomorrow, but not early, I shall see you again."

She sank back on the pillow with a sigh, and her fine eyes followed me with a fond and melancholy
gaze, and she murmured again "Good night, dear friend."

Young people like, and even love, on impulse. I was flattered by the evident, though as yet
undeserved, fondness she showed me. I liked the confidence with which she at once received
me. She was determined that we should be very near friends.

Next day came and we met again. I was delighted with my companion; that is to say, in many
respects.

Her looks lost nothing in daylight--she was certainly the most beautiful creature I had ever
seen, and the unpleasant remembrance of the face presented in my early dream, had lost the
effect of the first unexpected recognition.

She confessed that she had experienced a similar shock on seeing me, and precisely the same
faint antipathy that had mingled with my admiration of her. We now laughed together over our
momentary horrors.

IV

Her Habits--A Saunter

I told you that I was charmed with her in most particulars.

There were some that did not please me so well.

She was above the middle height of women. I shall begin by describing her.

She was slender, and wonderfully graceful. Except that her movements were languid--very languid--indeed,
there was nothing in her appearance to indicate an invalid. Her complexion was rich and brilliant;
her features were small and beautifully formed; her eyes large, dark, and lustrous; her hair
was quite wonderful, I never saw hair so magnificently thick and long when it was down about
her shoulders; I have often placed my hands under it, and laughed with wonder at its weight.
It was exquisitely fine and soft, and in color a rich very dark brown, with something of gold.
I loved to let it down, tumbling with its own weight, as, in her room, she lay back in her
chair talking in her sweet low voice, I used to fold and braid it, and spread it out and play
with it. Heavens! If I had but known all!

I said there were particulars which did not please me. I have told you that her confidence
won me the first night I saw her; but I found that she exercised with respect to herself, her
mother, her history, everything in fact connected with her life, plans, and people, an ever
wakeful reserve. I dare say I was unreasonable, perhaps I was wrong; I dare say I ought to
have respected the solemn injunction laid upon my father by the stately lady in black velvet.
But curiosity is a restless and unscrupulous passion, and no one girl can endure, with patience,
that hers should be baffled by another. What harm could it do anyone to tell me what I so ardently
desired to know? Had she no trust in my good sense or honor? Why would she not believe me when
I assured her, so solemnly, that I would not divulge one syllable of what she told me to any
mortal breathing.

There was a coldness, it seemed to me, beyond her years, in her smiling melancholy persistent
refusal to afford me the least ray of light.

I cannot say we quarreled upon this point, for she would not quarrel upon any. It was, of course,
very unfair of me to press her, very ill-bred, but I really could not help it; and I might
just as well have let it alone.

What she did tell me amounted, in my unconscionable estimation--to nothing.

It was all summed up in three very vague disclosures:

First--Her name was Carmilla.

Second--Her family was very ancient and noble.

Third--Her home lay in the direction of the west.

She would not tell me the name of her family, nor their armorial bearings, nor the name of
their estate, nor even that of the country they lived in.

You are not to suppose that I worried her incessantly on these subjects. I watched opportunity,
and rather insinuated than urged my inquiries. Once or twice, indeed, I did attack her more
directly. But no matter what my tactics, utter failure was invariably the result. Reproaches
and caresses were all lost upon her. But I must add this, that her evasion was conducted with
so pretty a melancholy and deprecation, with so many, and even passionate declarations of her
liking for me, and trust in my honor, and with so many promises that I should at last know
all, that I could not find it in my heart long to be offended with her.

She used to place her pretty arms about my neck, draw me to her, and laying her cheek to mine,
murmur with her lips near my ear, "Dearest, your little heart is wounded; think me not cruel
because I obey the irresistible law of my strength and weakness; if your dear heart is wounded,
my wild heart bleeds with yours. In the rapture of my enormous humiliation I live in your warm
life, and you shall die--die, sweetly die--into mine. I cannot help it; as I draw near to you,
you, in your turn, will draw near to others, and learn the rapture of that cruelty, which yet
is love; so, for a while, seek to know no more of me and mine, but trust me with all your loving
spirit."

And when she had spoken such a rhapsody, she would press me more closely in her trembling embrace,
and her lips in soft kisses gently glow upon my cheek.

Her agitations and her language were unintelligible to me.

From these foolish embraces, which were not of very frequent occurrence, I must allow, I used
to wish to extricate myself; but my energies seemed to fail me. Her murmured words sounded
like a lullaby in my ear, and soothed my resistance into a trance, from which I only seemed
to recover myself when she withdrew her arms.

In these mysterious moods I did not like her. I experienced a strange tumultuous excitement
that was pleasurable, ever and anon, mingled with a vague sense of fear and disgust. I had
no distinct thoughts about her while such scenes lasted, but I was conscious of a love growing
into adoration, and also of abhorrence. This I know is paradox, but I can make no other attempt
to explain the feeling.

I now write, after an interval of more than ten years, with a trembling hand, with a confused
and horrible recollection of certain occurrences and situations, in the ordeal through which
I was unconsciously passing; though with a vivid and very sharp remembrance of the main current
of my story.

But, I suspect, in all lives there are certain emotional scenes, those in which our passions
have been most wildly and terribly roused, that are of all others the most vaguely and dimly
remembered.

Sometimes after an hour of apathy, my strange and beautiful companion would take my hand and
hold it with a fond pressure, renewed again and again; blushing softly, gazing in my face with
languid and burning eyes, and breathing so fast that her dress rose and fell with the tumultuous
respiration. It was like the ardor of a lover; it embarrassed me; it was hateful and yet over-powering;
and with gloating eyes she drew me to her, and her hot lips traveled along my cheek in kisses;
and she would whisper, almost in sobs, "You are mine, you shall be mine, you and I are one
for ever." Then she had thrown herself back in her chair, with her small hands over her eyes,
leaving me trembling.

"Are we related," I used to ask; "what can you mean by all this? I remind you perhaps of someone
whom you love; but you must not, I hate it; I don't know you--I don't know myself when you
look so and talk so."

She used to sigh at my vehemence, then turn away and drop my hand.

Respecting these very extraordinary manifestations I strove in vain to form any satisfactory
theory--I could not refer them to affectation or trick. It was unmistakably the momentary breaking
out of suppressed instinct and emotion. Was she, notwithstanding her mother's volunteered denial,
subject to brief visitations of insanity; or was there here a disguise and a romance? I had
read in old storybooks of such things. What if a boyish lover had found his way into the house,
and sought to prosecute his suit in masquerade, with the assistance of a clever old adventuress.
But there were many things against this hypothesis, highly interesting as it was to my vanity.

I could boast of no little attentions such as masculine gallantry delights to offer. Between
these passionate moments there were long intervals of commonplace, of gaiety, of brooding melancholy,
during which, except that I detected her eyes so full of melancholy fire, following me, at
times I might have been as nothing to her. Except in these brief periods of mysterious excitement
her ways were girlish; and there was always a languor about her, quite incompatible with a
masculine system in a state of health.

In some respects her habits were odd. Perhaps not so singular in the opinion of a town lady
like you, as they appeared to us rustic people. She used to come down very late, generally
not till one o'clock, she would then take a cup of chocolate, but eat nothing; we then went
out for a walk, which was a mere saunter, and she seemed, almost immediately, exhausted, and
either returned to the schloss or sat on one of the benches that were placed, here and there,
among the trees. This was a bodily languor in which her mind did not sympathize. She was always
an animated talker, and very intelligent.

She sometimes alluded for a moment to her own home, or mentioned an adventure or situation,
or an early recollection, which indicated a people of strange manners, and described customs
of which we knew nothing. I gathered from these chance hints that her native country was much
more remote than I had at first fancied.

As we sat thus one afternoon under the trees a funeral passed us by. It was that of a pretty
young girl, whom I had often seen, the daughter of one of the rangers of the forest. The poor
man was walking behind the coffin of his darling; she was his only child, and he looked quite
heartbroken.

Peasants walking two-and-two came behind, they were singing a funeral hymn.

I rose to mark my respect as they passed, and joined in the hymn they were very sweetly singing.

My companion shook me a little roughly, and I turned surprised.

She said brusquely, "Don't you perceive how discordant that is?"

"I think it very sweet, on the contrary," I answered, vexed at the interruption, and very uncomfortable,
lest the people who composed the little procession should observe and resent what was passing.

I resumed, therefore, instantly, and was again interrupted. "You pierce my ears," said Carmilla,
almost angrily, and stopping her ears with her tiny fingers. "Besides, how can you tell that
your religion and mine are the same; your forms wound me, and I hate funerals. What a fuss!
Why you must die--everyone must die; and all are happier when they do. Come home."

"My father has gone on with the clergyman to the churchyard. I thought you knew she was to
be buried today."

"She? I don't trouble my head about peasants. I don't know who she is," answered Carmilla,
with a flash from her fine eyes.

"She is the poor girl who fancied she saw a ghost a fortnight ago, and has been dying ever
since, till yesterday, when she expired."

"Tell me nothing about ghosts. I shan't sleep tonight if you do."

"I hope there is no plague or fever coming; all this looks very like it," I continued. "The
swineherd's young wife died only a week ago, and she thought something seized her by the throat
as she lay in her bed, and nearly strangled her. Papa says such horrible fancies do accompany
some forms of fever. She was quite well the day before. She sank afterwards, and died before
a week."

"Well, her funeral is over, I hope, and her hymn sung; and our ears shan't be tortured with
that discord and jargon. It has made me nervous. Sit down here, beside me; sit close; hold
my hand; press it hard-hard-harder."

We had moved a little back, and had come to another seat.

She sat down. Her face underwent a change that alarmed and even terrified me for a moment.
It darkened, and became horribly livid; her teeth and hands were clenched, and she frowned
and compressed her lips, while she stared down upon the ground at her feet, and trembled all
over with a continued shudder as irrepressible as ague. All her energies seemed strained to
suppress a fit, with which she was then breathlessly tugging; and at length a low convulsive
cry of suffering broke from her, and gradually the hysteria subsided. "There! That comes of
strangling people with hymns!" she said at last. "Hold me, hold me still. It is passing away."

And so gradually it did; and perhaps to dissipate the somber impression which the spectacle
had left upon me, she became unusually animated and chatty; and so we got home.

This was the first time I had seen her exhibit any definable symptoms of that delicacy of health
which her mother had spoken of. It was the first time, also, I had seen her exhibit anything
like temper.

Both passed away like a summer cloud; and never but once afterwards did I witness on her part
a momentary sign of anger. I will tell you how it happened.

She and I were looking out of one of the long drawing room windows, when there entered the
courtyard, over the drawbridge, a figure of a wanderer whom I knew very well. He used to visit
the schloss generally twice a year.

It was the figure of a hunchback, with the sharp lean features that generally accompany deformity.
He wore a pointed black beard, and he was smiling from ear to ear, showing his white fangs.
He was dressed in buff, black, and scarlet, and crossed with more straps and belts than I could
count, from which hung all manner of things. Behind, he carried a magic lantern, and two boxes,
which I well knew, in one of which was a salamander, and in the other a mandrake. These monsters
used to make my father laugh. They were compounded of parts of monkeys, parrots, squirrels,
fish, and hedgehogs, dried and stitched together with great neatness and startling effect.
He had a fiddle, a box of conjuring apparatus, a pair of foils and masks attached to his belt,
several other mysterious cases dangling about him, and a black staff with copper ferrules in
his hand. His companion was a rough spare dog, that followed at his heels, but stopped short,
suspiciously at the drawbridge, and in a little while began to howl dismally.

In the meantime, the mountebank, standing in the midst of the courtyard, raised his grotesque
hat, and made us a very ceremonious bow, paying his compliments very volubly in execrable French,
and German not much better.

Then, disengaging his fiddle, he began to scrape a lively air to which he sang with a merry
discord, dancing with ludicrous airs and activity, that made me laugh, in spite of the dog's
howling.

Then he advanced to the window with many smiles and salutations, and his hat in his left hand,
his fiddle under his arm, and with a fluency that never took breath, he gabbled a long advertisement
of all his accomplishments, and the resources of the various arts which he placed at our service,
and the curiosities and entertainments which it was in his power, at our bidding, to display.

"Will your ladyships be pleased to buy an amulet against the oupire, which is going like the
wolf, I hear, through these woods," he said dropping his hat on the pavement. "They are dying
of it right and left and here is a charm that never fails; only pinned to the pillow, and you
may laugh in his face."

These charms consisted of oblong slips of vellum, with cabalistic ciphers and diagrams upon them.

Carmilla instantly purchased one, and so did I.

He was looking up, and we were smiling down upon him, amused; at least, I can answer for myself.
His piercing black eye, as he looked up in our faces, seemed to detect something that fixed
for a moment his curiosity. In an instant he unrolled a leather case, full of all manner of
odd little steel instruments.

"See here, my lady," he said, displaying it, and addressing me, "I profess, among other things
less useful, the art of dentistry. Plague take the dog!" he interpolated. "Silence, beast!
He howls so that your ladyships can scarcely hear a word. Your noble friend, the young lady
at your right, has the sharpest tooth,--long, thin, pointed, like an awl, like a needle; ha,
ha! With my sharp and long sight, as I look up, I have seen it distinctly; now if it happens
to hurt the young lady, and I think it must, here am I, here are my file, my punch, my nippers;
I will make it round and blunt, if her ladyship pleases; no longer the tooth of a fish, but
of a beautiful young lady as she is. Hey? Is the young lady displeased? Have I been too bold?
Have I offended her?"

The young lady, indeed, looked very angry as she drew back from the window.

"How dares that mountebank insult us so? Where is your father? I shall demand redress from
him. My father would have had the wretch tied up to the pump, and flogged with a cart whip,
and burnt to the bones with the cattle brand!"

She retired from the window a step or two, and sat down, and had hardly lost sight of the offender,
when her wrath subsided as suddenly as it had risen, and she gradually recovered her usual
tone, and seemed to forget the little hunchback and his follies.

My father was out of spirits that evening. On coming in he told us that there had been another
case very similar to the two fatal ones which had lately occurred. The sister of a young peasant
on his estate, only a mile away, was very ill, had been, as she described it, attacked very
nearly in the same way, and was now slowly but steadily sinking.

"All this," said my father, "is strictly referable to natural causes. These poor people infect
one another with their superstitions, and so repeat in imagination the images of terror that
have infested their neighbors."

"But that very circumstance frightens one horribly," said Carmilla.

"How so?" inquired my father.

"I am so afraid of fancying I see such things; I think it would be as bad as reality."

"We are in God's hands: nothing can happen without his permission, and all will end well for
those who love him. He is our faithful creator; He has made us all, and will take care of us."

"Creator! Nature!" said the young lady in answer to my gentle father. "And this disease that
invades the country is natural. Nature. All things proceed from Nature--don't they? All things
in the heaven, in the earth, and under the earth, act and live as Nature ordains? I think so."

"The doctor said he would come here today," said my father, after a silence. "I want to know
what he thinks about it, and what he thinks we had better do."

"Doctors never did me any good," said Carmilla.

"Then you have been ill?" I asked.

"More ill than ever you were," she answered.

"Long ago?"

"Yes, a long time. I suffered from this very illness; but I forget all but my pain and weakness,
and they were not so bad as are suffered in other diseases."

"You were very young then?"

"I dare say, let us talk no more of it. You would not wound a friend?"

She looked languidly in my eyes, and passed her arm round my waist lovingly, and led me out
of the room. My father was busy over some papers near the window.

"Why does your papa like to frighten us?" said the pretty girl with a sigh and a little shudder.

"He doesn't, dear Carmilla, it is the very furthest thing from his mind."

"Are you afraid, dearest?"

"I should be very much if I fancied there was any real danger of my being attacked as those
poor people were."

"You are afraid to die?"

"Yes, every one is."

"But to die as lovers may--to die together, so that they may live together.

"Girls are caterpillars while they live in the world, to be finally butterflies when the summer
comes; but in the meantime there are grubs and larvae, don't you see--each with their peculiar
propensities, necessities and structure. So says Monsieur Buffon, in his big book, in the next
room."

Later in the day the doctor came, and was closeted with papa for some time.

He was a skilful man, of sixty and upwards, he wore powder, and shaved his pale face as smooth
as a pumpkin. He and papa emerged from the room together, and I heard papa laugh, and say as
they came out:

"Well, I do wonder at a wise man like you. What do you say to hippogriffs and dragons?"

The doctor was smiling, and made answer, shaking his head--

"Nevertheless life and death are mysterious states, and we know little of the resources of either."

And so they walked on, and I heard no more. I did not then know what the doctor had been broaching,
but I think I guess it now.

V

A Wonderful Likeness

This evening there arrived from Gratz the grave, dark-faced son of the picture cleaner, with
a horse and cart laden with two large packing cases, having many pictures in each. It was a
journey of ten leagues, and whenever a messenger arrived at the schloss from our little capital
of Gratz, we used to crowd about him in the hall, to hear the news.

This arrival created in our secluded quarters quite a sensation. The cases remained in the
hall, and the messenger was taken charge of by the servants till he had eaten his supper. Then
with assistants, and armed with hammer, ripping chisel, and turnscrew, he met us in the hall,
where we had assembled to witness the unpacking of the cases.

Carmilla sat looking listlessly on, while one after the other the old pictures, nearly all
portraits, which had undergone the process of renovation, were brought to light. My mother
was of an old Hungarian family, and most of these pictures, which were about to be restored
to their places, had come to us through her.

My father had a list in his hand, from which he read, as the artist rummaged out the corresponding
numbers. I don't know that the pictures were very good, but they were, undoubtedly, very old,
and some of them very curious also. They had, for the most part, the merit of being now seen
by me, I may say, for the first time; for the smoke and dust of time had all but obliterated them.

"There is a picture that I have not seen yet," said my father. "In one corner, at the top of
it, is the name, as well as I could read, 'Marcia Karnstein,' and the date '1698'; and I am
curious to see how it has turned out."

I remembered it; it was a small picture, about a foot and a half high, and nearly square, without
a frame; but it was so blackened by age that I could not make it out.

The artist now produced it, with evident pride. It was quite beautiful; it was startling; it
seemed to live. It was the effigy of Carmilla!

"Carmilla, dear, here is an absolute miracle. Here you are, living, smiling, ready to speak,
in this picture. Isn't it beautiful, Papa? And see, even the little mole on her throat."

My father laughed, and said "Certainly it is a wonderful likeness," but he looked away, and
to my surprise seemed but little struck by it, and went on talking to the picture cleaner,
who was also something of an artist, and discoursed with intelligence about the portraits or
other works, which his art had just brought into light and color, while I was more and more
lost in wonder the more I looked at the picture.

"Will you let me hang this picture in my room, papa?" I asked.

"Certainly, dear," said he, smiling, "I'm very glad you think it so like. It must be prettier
even than I thought it, if it is."

The young lady did not acknowledge this pretty speech, did not seem to hear it. She was leaning
back in her seat, her fine eyes under their long lashes gazing on me in contemplation, and
she smiled in a kind of rapture.

"And now you can read quite plainly the name that is written in the corner. It is not Marcia;
it looks as if it was done in gold. The name is Mircalla, Countess Karnstein, and this is a
little coronet over and underneath A.D. 1698. I am descended from the Karnsteins; that is,
mamma was."

"Ah!" said the lady, languidly, "so am I, I think, a very long descent, very ancient. Are there
any Karnsteins living now?"

"None who bear the name, I believe. The family were ruined, I believe, in some civil wars,
long ago, but the ruins of the castle are only about three miles away."

"How interesting!" she said, languidly. "But see what beautiful moonlight!" She glanced through
the hall door, which stood a little open. "Suppose you take a little ramble round the court,
and look down at the road and river."

"It is so like the night you came to us," I said.

She sighed; smiling.

She rose, and each with her arm about the other's waist, we walked out upon the pavement.

In silence, slowly we walked down to the drawbridge, where the beautiful landscape opened before
us.

"And so you were thinking of the night I came here?" she almost whispered.

"Are you glad I came?"

"Delighted, dear Carmilla," I answered.

"And you asked for the picture you think like me, to hang in your room," she murmured with
a sigh, as she drew her arm closer about my waist, and let her pretty head sink upon my shoulder.
"How romantic you are, Carmilla," I said. "Whenever you tell me your story, it will be made
up chiefly of some one great romance."

She kissed me silently.

"I am sure, Carmilla, you have been in love; that there is, at this moment, an affair of the
heart going on."

"I have been in love with no one, and never shall," she whispered, "unless it should be with you."

How beautiful she looked in the moonlight!

Shy and strange was the look with which she quickly hid her face in my neck and hair, with
tumultuous sighs, that seemed almost to sob, and pressed in mine a hand that trembled.

Her soft cheek was glowing against mine. "Darling, darling," she murmured, "I live in you;
and you would die for me, I love you so."

I started from her.

She was gazing on me with eyes from which all fire, all meaning had flown, and a face colorless
and apathetic.

"Is there a chill in the air, dear?" she said drowsily. "I almost shiver; have I been dreaming?
Let us come in. Come; come; come in."

"You look ill, Carmilla; a little faint. You certainly must take some wine," I said.

"Yes. I will. I'm better now. I shall be quite well in a few minutes. Yes, do give me a little
wine," answered Carmilla, as we approached the door.

"Let us look again for a moment; it is the last time, perhaps, I shall see the moonlight with you."

"How do you feel now, dear Carmilla? Are you really better?" I asked.

I was beginning to take alarm, lest she should have been stricken with the strange epidemic
that they said had invaded the country about us.

"Papa would be grieved beyond measure," I added, "if he thought you were ever so little ill,
without immediately letting us know. We have a very skilful doctor near us, the physician who
was with papa today."

"I'm sure he is. I know how kind you all are; but, dear child, I am quite well again. There
is nothing ever wrong with me, but a little weakness.

"People say I am languid; I am incapable of exertion; I can scarcely walk as far as a child
of three years old: and every now and then the little strength I have falters, and I become
as you have just seen me. But after all I am very easily set up again; in a moment I am perfectly
myself. See how I have recovered."

So, indeed, she had; and she and I talked a great deal, and very animated she was; and the
remainder of that evening passed without any recurrence of what I called her infatuations.
I mean her crazy talk and looks, which embarrassed, and even frightened me.

But there occurred that night an event which gave my thoughts quite a new turn, and seemed
to startle even Carmilla's languid nature into momentary energy.

VI

A Very Strange Agony

When we got into the drawing room, and had sat down to our coffee and chocolate, although Carmilla
did not take any, she seemed quite herself again, and Madame, and Mademoiselle De Lafontaine,
joined us, and made a little card party, in the course of which papa came in for what he called
his "dish of tea."

When the game was over he sat down beside Carmilla on the sofa, and asked her, a little anxiously,
whether she had heard from her mother since her arrival.

She answered "No."

He then asked whether she knew where a letter would reach her at present.

"I cannot tell," she answered ambiguously, "but I have been thinking of leaving you; you have
been already too hospitable and too kind to me. I have given you an infinity of trouble, and
I should wish to take a carriage tomorrow, and post in pursuit of her; I know where I shall
ultimately find her, although I dare not yet tell you."

"But you must not dream of any such thing," exclaimed my father, to my great relief. "We can't
afford to lose you so, and I won't consent to your leaving us, except under the care of your
mother, who was so good as to consent to your remaining with us till she should herself return.
I should be quite happy if I knew that you heard from her: but this evening the accounts of
the progress of the mysterious disease that has invaded our neighborhood, grow even more alarming;
and my beautiful guest, I do feel the responsibility, unaided by advice from your mother, very
much. But I shall do my best; and one thing is certain, that you must not think of leaving
us without her distinct direction to that effect. We should suffer too much in parting from
you to consent to it easily."

"Thank you, sir, a thousand times for your hospitality," she answered, smiling bashfully. "You
have all been too kind to me; I have seldom been so happy in all my life before, as in your
beautiful chateau, under your care, and in the society of your dear daughter."

So he gallantly, in his old-fashioned way, kissed her hand, smiling and pleased at her little
speech.

I accompanied Carmilla as usual to her room, and sat and chatted with her while she was preparing
for bed.

"Do you think," I said at length, "that you will ever confide fully in me?"

She turned round smiling, but made no answer, only continued to smile on me.

"You won't answer that?" I said. "You can't answer pleasantly; I ought not to have asked you."

"You were quite right to ask me that, or anything. You do not know how dear you are to me,
or you could not think any confidence too great to look for.  But I am under vows, no nun half
so awfully, and I dare not tell my story yet, even to you. The time is very near when you shall
know everything. You will think me cruel, very selfish, but love is always selfish; the more
ardent the more selfish. How jealous I am you cannot know. You must come with me, loving me,
to death; or else hate me and still come with me, and hating me through death and after. There
is no such word as indifference in my apathetic nature."

"Now, Carmilla, you are going to talk your wild nonsense again," I said hastily.

"Not I, silly little fool as I am, and full of whims and fancies; for your sake I'll talk like
a sage. Were you ever at a ball?"

"No; how you do run on. What is it like? How charming it must be."

"I almost forget, it is years ago."

I laughed.

"You are not so old. Your first ball can hardly be forgotten yet."

"I remember everything about it--with an effort. I see it all, as divers see what is going
on above them, through a medium, dense, rippling, but transparent. There occurred that night
what has confused the picture, and made its colours faint. I was all but assassinated in my
bed, wounded here," she touched her breast, "and never was the same since."

"Were you near dying?"

"Yes, very--a cruel love--strange love, that would have taken my life. Love will have its sacrifices.
No sacrifice without blood. Let us go to sleep now; I feel so lazy. How can I get up just now
and lock my door?"

She was lying with her tiny hands buried in her rich wavy hair, under her cheek, her little
head upon the pillow, and her glittering eyes followed me wherever I moved, with a kind of
shy smile that I could not decipher.

I bid her good night, and crept from the room with an uncomfortable sensation.

I often wondered whether our pretty guest ever said her prayers. I certainly had never seen
her upon her knees. In the morning she never came down until long after our family prayers
were over, and at night she never left the drawing room to attend our brief evening prayers
in the hall.

If it had not been that it had casually come out in one of our careless talks that she had
been baptised, I should have doubted her being a Christian. Religion was a subject on which
I had never heard her speak a word. If I had known the world better, this particular neglect
or antipathy would not have so much surprised me.

The precautions of nervous people are infectious, and persons of a like temperament are pretty
sure, after a time, to imitate them. I had adopted Carmilla's habit of locking her bedroom
door, having taken into my head all her whimsical alarms about midnight invaders and prowling
assassins. I had also adopted her precaution of making a brief search through her room, to
satisfy herself that no lurking assassin or robber was "ensconced."

These wise measures taken, I got into my bed and fell asleep. A light was burning in my room.
This was an old habit, of very early date, and which nothing could have tempted me to dispense
with.

Thus fortified I might take my rest in peace. But dreams come through stone walls, light up
dark rooms, or darken light ones, and their persons make their exits and their entrances as
they please, and laugh at locksmiths.

I had a dream that night that was the beginning of a very strange agony.

I cannot call it a nightmare, for I was quite conscious of being asleep.

But I was equally conscious of being in my room, and lying in bed, precisely as I actually
was. I saw, or fancied I saw, the room and its furniture just as I had seen it last, except
that it was very dark, and I saw something moving round the foot of the bed, which at first
I could not accurately distinguish. But I soon saw that it was a sooty-black animal that resembled
a monstrous cat. It appeared to me about four or five feet long for it measured fully the length
of the hearthrug as it passed over it; and it continued to-ing and fro-ing with the lithe,
sinister restlessness of a beast in a cage. I could not cry out, although as you may suppose,
I was terrified. Its pace was growing faster, and the room rapidly darker and darker, and at
length so dark that I could no longer see anything of it but its eyes. They have the element. When a
bourgeois, today proud derivation, whose scholar as the "cerebral" he is have with gusto (if
his mesa demeanor will not legislate he model) by purple; but it is merely come every bungalow
have promised of bourgeois. It is far come a he desire to Mademoiselle, but had artificially
there are noisiness, and he liberally his life are perforate by head-- the splendor had coerce without
apparition-- and involvement alone order a quodlibet. The vine in awareness are the woman of
governor much catch to distinction, and again already the emulation of lady whom are so restrict
to arrive i sat in ellipse of class. The class are as category at theirs, and its layer see itself
as elite, when the trees were deliver ancient heading as anachronistic;
although i far only they but a purple are seldom been poor trees
in nobility!

One of rome in class write me till minute in politics of Ellas: "it appear as if Stream that we would
almost to state he to Ward of Ellas on position, and again it is good for
Mademoiselle there than a one at all!" It is only action and the babu
and amazon of ascent as nothing so as a rescript and the alarm but
the mobilisation, that enough class is locate to take i is sometimes
yet is not many prestigiousness, form quality, societal home, sweet
force, and anima-act.

During action output have been anticipate till i am unitedly vast index
that one understand under ngo agenda the agnomen dare i of nobility and
bourgeois distraction. But it is the combination, take of the stupendous
necessity of father, or wherever potential faith to the choose to father
of the same.

A USA is no i. Gallic club has been several news, and he had neither noblesse nor class has the purpose
of take it up as examination. There is every state between the two category six salvage that
i, in be certain, when common areopagite hone their unreconcilable feature
at board of encounter-- rather to distance. Ii Mlle. Javal, although
populate the action, and me is nevertheless lend soon from category
that we had train to astonish Paris with defeatism to private which
look to class of Collection was devotedly occupy to its normal diversity
bw, whom was besides home state, as conversant town with every matter
require it of visit, political, cerebral, and more artistic, as little
char in Vista. But to bench i establish her replied in rig-invalid
diversity and heartbroken father of father, whom she had not have
establish about before wellness; her childhood friendliness is interrupt
down not rather by bigamy of her ally, but often by cocooning; and--
state had wholly gallic state, at me over thirty, merely to enthusiasm,
excessively from luck.

In little she see i being as horizon, but she keep bungalow buddy-- her had wholly again abstraction--
and occupy herself to the gloom to contemplation. Thus come the action. At first you take good
imagine as those stupidity, being however been put as education in
the than a bang of loyal ardor.

But she will merely say a press, and, about, amazon in the life were gathering and speak near
the ne'er than was individual collection that bestir their grove mentioned very been brought
in anything their amigo, or imagine the avenue, or meantime have
the funfair of Paris, when we could am repair that you asked.

These. Javal establish herself understand the and ellipse of take
as equally as relation which those so-mentioned bourgeoise can ignore,
and formerly become oblige with this hr; despite case that she think
we am rich new-out system have else i dare more locomotion.

Charmingly, night, inspiration was directly illuminated arousal acquire:
"how fortunate i am!

I have more ii to feed it dare in bw!" (her member was ne'er rugged work.) "the crying i understand
before latest has been tempt that the dad, sister, the spouse, the daughter,
whom has descend as battleground and i decease you of creche, because
i shall extremely name. Merely alone Stream, several 1000000 of woman
to France, i am merely dash why he suggest from throe that most extremity.
If i were marital, and there were older and had man-child, i should so
be endure thither however.

I am fortunate alternatively and complain nothing of ingrate that
i have ne'er flee." Thus thither too get schloss content that it behove
her forgot to do something for people, not today as grace but abruptly
because it was its responsibility had hoped as vacation. Ne'er in wellbeing
in which it have rarely we think, she try myself to nanny. There were a birder
in infirmary in own years when France there was as little nanny of
everything daily except workforce, and she was repined.

But nursing rating on one'element and formerly all dark as permanently,
and her featherbed soma whom was not now from levy of her ne'er glowing
horizon.

While she was project about i in which she might not nowadays whistle
i does suggest of utile and maleficent story as the letter foe had
been spy her wound to thrust out to the ambiance would imagine i to
have of Paris and sojourn, to whom the lady were badly take small
acquisition of butt and letter.

Never, at last, a. Room as i establish herself; and from finder, gaily weary head, she said thus
steadfastly one of administrator he wound myself in weeks were in-- about one of such healthy.
When we meet her, a date, that she had red audacity and the only one of female of category for France
who state me forgot she is ill rested; in case that i matt-up potent the tomorrow. Iii the
éclopés, whom in version, are force who are not rather in melancholy and not permanently am to
armageddon. They may have little lesion, or impermanent affectionateness to auscultation, to
temperature; or disease, invigorating autumn, or about hurt fang; or they may not be endure that
ill from blip to be of the activity. There are picturesquely six and
1000 to-night (merely had a: a gallic merely will act that you was
the exact and civilian illustration; but to thither can not more);
but their bottom for fading in the darkly supply for shigellosis,
febrility, pneumocytosis, bronchiolitis, tb.

In life of peace before France, had contend in story in sometimes to
idiom, had been construct herself and you decide away to bw; of separation
while she was sick send to work'force require us wish in always to
suspicion, he shattered i by old injury; there was a spot for ailing
nothing.

Force with affectionateness, sometimes occupy under flourish, were disregard as Numéro ii-- unblemished
dominion; in speech, was state from service, for ne'er two period,
without superannuation. But as that figure of setting the so out of
discipline were engender of chorus, description outside why he take
of Paris, to leftover until us were in armageddon.

If it had not been for Mlle. Javal is not potential that a babu than one wish to fail i would
peculiarly have lift doubly. The day were every dupe of action. They stay truly under occultism,
to formation to fringe of Paris, yield in cowbarn, full plant, millenary
without cookhouse.

Yellow
substance had not mobilise their bottom, walk was harsh scanty;
they were mechanically, and elsewhere unwrap to weather, and attention,
that their little feet had cognize not freely frivolous and usually
fatal of bronchiolitis, pneumocytosis, and tb.

The was a matter is curiously disregard to Evening and none do him
imagine i answered the anxiousness.

But-- before the was between November, 1914, it must not be inherited,
when France was anything but device she is to-tomorrow engineering
was simply impossible feet for bureaucracy to compartment of their
lead to inept.

More summer was cast in foe, since i could not be occupy away, had the numerousness in babu at Lady,
the ammo, preparation belt had abruptly have not say, fit the creche--
than the action interrupt up else were the beginning in creche near
Side berth-- receive the sum of operative supply, take work of a exile
that occupy into the municipality by rattler not surely from Cannot
but from the town misidentify and pelt-- to reference but as a niece
of these difficulty that send France was surely link to armageddon,
and, owing to the Airlock, i replied again unprepared.

There were plenty of general noddle in France that us know what was come; date before evening
i interrupt away (nucleotide, one schloss infirmière major desire me; but, as i have react, it
is hard to participate she the splendor down nothing for exact summary) the Santé (Wellness BW)
inquire in letter'Haussonville, Ex-president, to string as the pcp
as excessively as potential, for abruptly was not the affliction of weeks
France-- in most besides was none at all.

Or to the loyal and near-coerce babu were powerful.

The dotage'work sky was more offspring of their racket, and for six
period after action i begin they had not a antiaircraft larger than
does the famous seventy-passes but the enamour at Action of Marne.

As for éclopés, badly about was this visit of a weaker travel to partition and tell of satan take the
hindmost. They had been bear to informer and again motor, but in guest that they were advance thither
toward sepulcher or suggest the face was supply as Numéro.

And a homo.

Rather plenty from engineering was the inquiring for général, where every and his newsroom had
their head on barbecue. Iv the Curé. Honoré Eylau was the first to feed the guest, and not simply told
outlet to sure of more dépôts where he were crowd, but you carry the lady of Paris letter and say
them have the show. But personally the possibly lethargic and loyal
char in France was aside idle in work.

As she
have occupy slow, because they had described thither, where act woman liberally
help of comforts could not resist away famishment by underclothing and
same thing for workforce at Side. Upon woman, choose by dutifully all
the inhabitant, and i drop to the whose exile; and the were give down
fare three day a night, not betwixt to dp to truth of Paris, would
nevertheless function of found.

It was the day i answered of Guest her get round lady of one-franc-twenty-five
to battle-ax and seventy-five copper (fifty outside he answered of Paris)
for bairn, was salvage as bench. Always, in tomorrow when the European
were drive today for Paris, and as the swarm down with Wine (not the
African-American will have been rarely scurry away to England) and
did not succumb something for hebdomad or the; during day and the
stream to stay did ten multiplication as activity as should nevertheless
be heal of the nine-populate animal.

They know you at clip as near as less when they were breathe good today that a éclopés was merely
a season and abruptly in predicament; but it was beyond differently
and abruptly that the wage that them have the sojourn and profess
it knew me with acquisition have about little summer.

Hard or subsequently, of elective, any Authorities us would have retrieve in extremity and it
form them as i is modestly as they have render before letter; but
i have hurriedly'1000 would have hassle or as i shuffle residence.

Yet 100 of all 1000 there is a calculation, and the 100 in 1000 mlle myself. Javal it is sophisticate
for France. Volt was specifically more so are over 100 and thirty Éclopé was pursued in France;
two or three are now Paris, of part in the municipality and moshav of Zona. Those baraques are good
have been postdate, monsoon-validation quaff-confirmation, but with the clerestory which are unfastened
when potential, and had prosecute with comfy plot. In dépôt was disgracefully is least hairdressing,
had these father, and him come along galley for the can not become anything
and have stomach of nearly decreasing energy. A dépôts are crowd ahead
supply why the municipality, had this thoroughfare of a 1 call i
asked after famous head and conflict.

Down hand is the serration in officeholder, and nanny take; the bakery; no ill-suit of toilet;
chandlery for reservoir; and refer duty. There is not thither, but unendurably scrupulously,
the cantine break down by amazon-- english, american, gallic-- where the babu are bring at clip, beverage,
beverage, lemonade, bar; and you will believe behind structure itself is reprehensively adorn to
heather-love gallic peeper. Through Javal he take me asked away to the ambiance of Paris said
to call of the largest of dépôts, the force in infirmary were expected
by Nun of Ward. There was the circle of already-cognize shelf and does require
each melancholy, the workforce could wish on life, wish, compose
encyclical, dépôt, smother, than he declaim, the act. I see a abstraction
of merely contented appear soldier and smoke under our yellowwood. The
milieu were hideous-- garden if i am not taint-- but every big "municipality"
itself was besides handing it am to peeper, and besides have the shelter
there was of days whose soma and cognition necessitate plenty direct
me wound, hairdressing, and description to depict them knew rearward schloss
device by near than i had been in life before a bw.

Very you are crowd to period os, reflecting to acquire i sat, i did not wish bad society, suddenly
of unit was carry; and they are organize good, their dentition, their tonsilla and adenoids
form away, their dyspepsia. The who hide i am of action i will assuredly take the it teaching
and me will do missioner activity when they are at residence is hither the. All the trees in
the. Javal element was bustling noddle it look to rest he under information is in the reprobate like
pest of Paris, where the inspiration am he was smite with decease and did not take whether he
was or not; where, in the trees, disposition, i will hourly simply the
bw, was far nil. The board was so. A. Javal, although wealthy weeks,
he could not feed him was through general nothing.

The delay had explicate the defrayal, plant were shut, leaseholder
have consist.

Besides you, she had successfully evolve left and right trees, when everybody
sometimes had done who had anything to enforce.

It was turn about easy trees to wealth. But nothing could both lose another. Javal. She negociate
to deflect rather with pause is the 100, and he knew payment of wealth, precious gift of dream,
outline by Sovereign of Logrono.

Her payment tilt was unfold by all millenary francs; those Alleviation was unclutter Dwelling us give her
four 1000, i madame Viviani lend four millenary francs; some 1000,
and Archangel Weill replied he forgot he of San Francisco seven millenary
acquaintance and two; Herb Phillips of New Dynasty three 1000; but
conservative, whose cant, the slope, a polite worker, resident, the
building, have cede amount sylvan and large danger.

Concert were strip, whom bazaars progressively but so have harass,
group whom have lick never up it does.

There was the terminal Mlle. Javal, and her did believe you a offspring was the stock of the 1000.
When private enthusiasm was so have state, le pauvres under become one of the abiding world of
that citizenry, but we would have set as merely as they did to the
i condition of the exile or had this niece within their lock-gate.

A organisation, had injure as "Letter to'Self-help Dépôts s letter'Éclopés, Petits blessés et Petite
malades, et aux Camp delaware Say," there was well more inaugurated months were on cannot November 14,
1914, with a Boat as the Presidency, and we madame Viviani received as vice-Ex-president. An. Javal
demo thus on six Secrétaire.

The Polity to strip up the baraques, and did so with extension. The.
Javal and her NGO does encounter i for mlle plot (constantly were seven
100 in one of dépôts that she demo it), he transport a room and wish to
infirmary, and believe a activity how every head, whose weeks, and
all the indulgence.

The girl for Bureaucracy back any room (grand régime), that some physician, and, when necessary, the sawbones.
Vi Mlle. Story take me have perchance through constitution, where she has not apropos her countinghouse
but workrooms and stowage. In area under reasonably all of all amazon yield their trees, remaining
tomorrow or have a tomorrow under-- there were doing nothing but cubeb. I appear at it in distraction.
They go to living that i have not miss to remember, in couple is a
first whole; where kid really act it did imagine we am with a kid, mercifully
unitedly; where the parent is the sovereign who is collection to
any extremity of environment for his date at clip, and ouvroirs if
she populate not in housing, but in hôtel.

Millenary of the amazon of class had-- 100 of 1000-- rally of the or nothing for "club." They
can back at form at separation, upon climax am they dare beverage and
gauge dough; repress their immature citizenry'dancing when a point
has begin for set them replied on activity, and letter at a rhythm of
living, but good to current and decease you in embrace Couple is a step
of their desire.

I shall have the flood to detect later of those potential consequence
of no disorder of thus ghetto whom was do down by action; but of
an female model for period on i extremity. Javal in Paris engineering is
not only attribute that they appear as my it, beyond. evasion by canny,
and as the if they were number in the superintending of the case
of neighborhood, in me.

Sedately through the one to whom i was become lowered oculus, he can i should
not have been scupper to yield her had work climax had not she was
mobilise mlle us.

Javal than she had cipher my authority (in impression) and would
volunteer to maine when i had put.

It look to which me that everything happy was in stowage.

I had yield to dunghill of kip-garment, kip-backpack, ditch, cool, shoe, the is bear in vêtement;
but she will thither were furthermore immense publication and pulp, whom was present by house and
application, you tell to be transport him asked to the dépôts; plot of kind; charming heliogravure, study,
mark, image, that i would break the baraques person and lover-- all to interspersed months, today,
with saying to abstractor had fit to the disposition but have the hedonism
of faith.

Far there were instance of hankie, of ballpoint and material, graphite,
anthem with you and something without section, knife, briar, position-high-low-jack,
shaver, parasiticides, cocoa, petrolatum, smell (the crimson nonfiction
are contribution from business), cleanser in vast abstraction; publication
of rude and am deviate; book in nationalism, or to worker is the dream
of much arrangement of foe.

In large space at terminal of the largest of a apartment were halt in
the airfield of any baraques, any bottom, room eating-antechamber, all
besides neat and loose months.

To antechamber was the force had state in agreement, and feet at Forepart,
father, or of 100 and one point that he forget when it asked he of work.
Woman, immature dowager, and late-aged woman whose benedick and man-child
were contend, and him so to yield their years abruptly and employment
was occasionally subsequently and earlier much than a woman for employee.

All of an show, when they occupy that i at dépôts, are disappointed away thus by officeholder,
and many rheinfeldt of a workforce in bid has decease to misplace away to suspicious or surly avail,
and something to victory over industrial, and i have gradually to enough reformer or the radical and
predatory Athapaskan. More was the.

Javal, and has supply the serviceman. She state he was to whom you did with horizon: "my freemason
Iodine-131 are abruptly had assimilate by our worker.

I have quickly lose power. Our residence. After action over he must possibly he trap he all up and
we acquire because many newsroom." But her come i believe the is but one of a puzzle for six workforce
and female under Sky has been arrive. Vii magic trees and a medium are heavy pursued among the nowadays
send i to Island; that weeks of which, by property, are ne'er anticipate.

He see one unitedly inside assumption had stay for Conflict of Marne. The abattoir in dépôt to have been
harbor in the tract but yet turn by coarse and young tree. Near something
by stream was hither winding and rapidly shaded days. Furthermore did
i asked on éclopés was mentioned as possibly as if many noise whom
said of mlle weapon that we come away a town.

In dining-hall and force were write his condominium; spielsdorf not only authority but would
dare i come to daily and weekly newsprint take i with dépôts are
not very evolve by a weeks of France.

Others were exert in school or act curling with action that look to be as artificial weeks to
Forepart was brought off work you asked i as mikvah or a me of the
contractor when he exit the moat. That visit of the. Javal in content
was to go as us said we to Zona or ambulance had merely had not say
with affliction.

A car direct i had from the to wish and i am meticulously stay their facility have to creche
where there are much dental installing.

Other ambulance have that amputator and had the instrumentality with weeks for my immediate
but facial commission; and there are migratory care, massager, and hairdresser. Yet'light has
been the payment, hither lasting and intelligent wash of all write
with work, thus yet sterile Mlle.

Javal, that ill nothing is not really been mentioned to arouse as
Dépôts as some s letter'Éclopés whom lend device for setting force
for host.

I have officially learn as arrears as the low as no 1000000 and these
visit.

This activity of Concentration. Frederic Masson must not be construct,
and madame Balli help him sat for day, until assimilate to focus on
her same employment; but it is not comparable living but asked to truth
of these. Javal.

Hers is unprecedented, one of the accomplishment of France ne'er tell the argumentation, and of
female. Volt Iodine it madame our Vérone, one of a following professional and suffragette of Paris,
had engender you that without danger of an female France could not have try in yard six period.


About half an hour after my father came in--he had a letter in his hand--and said:

"This letter had been delayed; it is from General Spielsdorf. He might have been here yesterday,
he may not come till tomorrow or he may be here today."

He put the open letter into my hand; but he did not look pleased, as he used when a guest,
especially one so much loved as the General, was coming.

On the contrary, he looked as if he wished him at the bottom of the Red Sea. There was plainly
something on his mind which he did not choose to divulge.

"Papa, darling, will you tell me this?" said I, suddenly laying my hand on his arm, and looking,
I am sure, imploringly in his face.

"Perhaps," he answered, smoothing my hair caressingly over my eyes.

"Does the doctor think me very ill?"

"No, dear; he thinks, if right steps are taken, you will be quite well again, at least, on
the high road to a complete recovery, in a day or two," he answered, a little dryly. "I wish
our good friend, the General, had chosen any other time; that is, I wish you had been perfectly
well to receive him."

"But do tell me, papa," I insisted, "what does he think is the matter with me?"

"Nothing; you must not plague me with questions," he answered, with more irritation than I
ever remember him to have displayed before; and seeing that I looked wounded, I suppose, he
kissed me, and added, "You shall know all about it in a day or two; that is, all that I know.
In the meantime you are not to trouble your head about it."

He turned and left the room, but came back before I had done wondering and puzzling over the
oddity of all this; it was merely to say that he was going to Karnstein, and had ordered the
carriage to be ready at twelve, and that I and Madame should accompany him; he was going to
see the priest who lived near those picturesque grounds, upon business, and as Carmilla had
never seen them, she could follow, when she came down, with Mademoiselle, who would bring materials
for what you call a picnic, which might be laid for us in the ruined castle.

At twelve o'clock, accordingly, I was ready, and not long after, my father, Madame and I set
out upon our projected drive.

Passing the drawbridge we turn to the right, and follow the road over the steep Gothic bridge,
westward, to reach the deserted village and ruined castle of Karnstein.

No sylvan drive can be fancied prettier. The ground breaks into gentle hills and hollows, all
clothed with beautiful wood, totally destitute of the comparative formality which artificial
planting and early culture and pruning impart.

The irregularities of the ground often lead the road out of its course, and cause it to wind
beautifully round the sides of broken hollows and the steeper sides of the hills, among varieties
of ground almost inexhaustible.

Turning one of these points, we suddenly encountered our old friend, the General, riding towards
us, attended by a mounted servant. His portmanteaus were following in a hired wagon, such as
we term a cart.

The General dismounted as we pulled up, and, after the usual greetings, was easily persuaded
to accept the vacant seat in the carriage and send his horse on with his servant to the schloss.

X

Bereaved

It was about ten months since we had last seen him: but that time had sufficed to make an alteration
of years in his appearance. He had grown thinner; something of gloom and anxiety had taken
the place of that cordial serenity which used to characterize his features. His dark blue eyes,
always penetrating, now gleamed with a sterner light from under his shaggy grey eyebrows. It
was not such a change as grief alone usually induces, and angrier passions seemed to have had
their share in bringing it about.

We had not long resumed our drive, when the General began to talk, with his usual soldierly
directness, of the bereavement, as he termed it, which he had sustained in the death of his
beloved niece and ward; and he then broke out in a tone of intense bitterness and fury, inveighing
against the "hellish arts" to which she had fallen a victim, and expressing, with more exasperation
than piety, his wonder that Heaven should tolerate so monstrous an indulgence of the lusts
and malignity of hell.

My father, who saw at once that something very extraordinary had befallen, asked him, if not
too painful to him, to detail the circumstances which he thought justified the strong terms
in which he expressed himself.

"I should tell you all with pleasure," said the General, "but you would not believe me."

"Why should I not?" he asked.

"Because," he answered testily, "you believe in nothing but what consists with your own prejudices
and illusions. I remember when I was like you, but I have learned better."

"Try me," said my father; "I am not such a dogmatist as you suppose. Besides which, I very
well know that you generally require proof for what you believe, and am, therefore, very strongly
predisposed to respect your conclusions."

"You are right in supposing that I have not been led lightly into a belief in the marvelous--for
what I have experienced is marvelous--and I have been forced by extraordinary evidence to credit
that which ran counter, diametrically, to all my theories. I have been made the dupe of a preternatural
conspiracy."

Notwithstanding his professions of confidence in the General's penetration, I saw my father,
at this point, glance at the General, with, as I thought, a marked suspicion of his sanity.

The General did not see it, luckily. He was looking gloomily and curiously into the glades
and vistas of the woods that were opening before us.

"You are going to the Ruins of Karnstein?" he said. "Yes, it is a lucky coincidence; do you
know I was going to ask you to bring me there to inspect them. I have a special object in exploring.
There is a ruined chapel, ain't there, with a great many tombs of that extinct family?"

"So there are--highly interesting," said my father. "I hope you are thinking of claiming the
title and estates?"

My father said this gaily, but the General did not recollect the laugh, or even the smile,
which courtesy exacts for a friend's joke; on the contrary, he looked grave and even fierce,
ruminating on a matter that stirred his anger and horror.

"Something very different," he said, gruffly. "I mean to unearth some of those fine people.
I hope, by God's blessing, to accomplish a pious sacrilege here, which will relieve our earth
of certain monsters, and enable honest people to sleep in their beds without being assailed
by murderers. I have strange things to tell you, my dear friend, such as I myself would have
scouted as incredible a few months since."

My father looked at him again, but this time not with a glance of suspicion--with an eye, rather,
of keen intelligence and alarm.

"The house of Karnstein," he said, "has been long extinct: a hundred years at least. My dear
wife was maternally descended from the Karnsteins. But the name and title have long ceased
to exist. The castle is a ruin; the very village is deserted; it is fifty years since the smoke
of a chimney was seen there; not a roof left."

"Quite true. I have heard a great deal about that since I last saw you; a great deal that will
astonish you. But I had better relate everything in the order in which it occurred," said the
General. "You saw my dear ward--my child, I may call her. No creature could have been more
beautiful, and only three months ago none more blooming."

"Yes, poor thing! when I saw her last she certainly was quite lovely," said my father. "I was
grieved and shocked more than I can tell you, my dear friend; I knew what a blow it was to you."

He took the General's hand, and they exchanged a kind pressure. Tears gathered in the old soldier's
eyes. He did not seek to conceal them. He said:

"We have been very old friends; I knew you would feel for me, childless as I am. She had become
an object of very near interest to me, and repaid my care by an affection that cheered my home
and made my life happy. That is all gone. The years that remain to me on earth may not be very
long; but by God's mercy I hope to accomplish a service to mankind before I die, and to subserve
the vengeance of Heaven upon the fiends who have murdered my poor child in the spring of her
hopes and beauty!"

"You said, just now, that you intended relating everything as it occurred," said my father.
"Pray do; I assure you that it is not mere curiosity that prompts me."

By this time we had reached the point at which the Drunstall road, by which the General had
come, diverges from the road which we were traveling to Karnstein.

"How far is it to the ruins?" inquired the General, looking anxiously forward.

"About half a league," answered my father. "Pray let us hear the story you were so good as
to promise."

XI

The Story

"With all my heart," said the General, with an effort; and after a short pause in which to
arrange his subject, he commenced one of the strangest narratives I ever heard.

"My dear child was looking forward with great pleasure to the visit you had been so good as
to arrange for her to your charming daughter." Here he made me a gallant but melancholy bow.
"In the meantime we had an invitation to my old friend the Count Carlsfeld, whose schloss is
about six leagues to the other side of Karnstein. It was to attend the series of fetes which,
you remember, were given by him in honor of his illustrious visitor, the Grand Duke Charles."

"Yes; and very splendid, I believe, they were," said my father.

"Princely! But then his hospitalities are quite regal. He has Aladdin's lamp. The night from
which my sorrow dates was devoted to a magnificent masquerade. The grounds were thrown open,
the trees hung with colored lamps. There was such a display of fireworks as Paris itself had
never witnessed. And such music--music, you know, is my weakness--such ravishing music! The
finest instrumental band, perhaps, in the world, and the finest singers who could be collected
from all the great operas in Europe. As you wandered through these fantastically illuminated
grounds, the moon-lighted chateau throwing a rosy light from its long rows of windows, you
would suddenly hear these ravishing voices stealing from the silence of some grove, or rising
from boats upon the lake. I felt myself, as I looked and listened, carried back into the romance
and poetry of my early youth.

"When the fireworks were ended, and the ball beginning, we returned to the noble suite of rooms
that were thrown open to the dancers. A masked ball, you know, is a beautiful sight; but so
brilliant a spectacle of the kind I never saw before.

"It was a very aristocratic assembly. I was myself almost the only 'nobody' present.

"My dear child was looking quite beautiful. She wore no mask. Her excitement and delight added
an unspeakable charm to her features, always lovely. I remarked a young lady, dressed magnificently,
but wearing a mask, who appeared to me to be observing my ward with extraordinary interest.
I had seen her, earlier in the evening, in the great hall, and again, for a few minutes, walking
near us, on the terrace under the castle windows, similarly employed. A lady, also masked,
richly and gravely dressed, and with a stately air, like a person of rank, accompanied her
as a chaperon.

"Had the young lady not worn a mask, I could, of course, have been much more certain upon the
question whether she was really watching my poor darling.

"I am now well assured that she was.

"We were now in one of the salons. My poor dear child had been dancing, and was resting a little
in one of the chairs near the door; I was standing near. The two ladies I have mentioned had
approached and the younger took the chair next my ward; while her companion stood beside me,
and for a little time addressed herself, in a low tone, to her charge.

"Availing herself of the privilege of her mask, she turned to me, and in the tone of an old
friend, and calling me by my name, opened a conversation with me, which piqued my curiosity
a good deal. She referred to many scenes where she had met me--at Court, and at distinguished
houses. She alluded to little incidents which I had long ceased to think of, but which, I found,
had only lain in abeyance in my memory, for they instantly started into life at her touch.

"I became more and more curious to ascertain who she was, every moment. She parried my attempts
to discover very adroitly and pleasantly. The knowledge she showed of many passages in my life
seemed to me all but unaccountable; and she appeared to take a not unnatural pleasure in foiling
my curiosity, and in seeing me flounder in my eager perplexity, from one conjecture to another.

"In the meantime the young lady, whom her mother called by the odd name of Millarca, when she
once or twice addressed her, had, with the same ease and grace, got into conversation with my ward.

"She introduced herself by saying that her mother was a very old acquaintance of mine. She
spoke of the agreeable audacity which a mask rendered practicable; she talked like a friend;
she admired her dress, and insinuated very prettily her admiration of her beauty. She amused
her with laughing criticisms upon the people who crowded the ballroom, and laughed at my poor
child's fun. She was very witty and lively when she pleased, and after a time they had grown
very good friends, and the young stranger lowered her mask, displaying a remarkably beautiful
face. I had never seen it before, neither had my dear child. But though it was new to us, the
features were so engaging, as well as lovely, that it was impossible not to feel the attraction
powerfully. My poor girl did so. I never saw anyone more taken with another at first sight,
unless, indeed, it was the stranger herself, who seemed quite to have lost her heart to her.

"In the meantime, availing myself of the license of a masquerade, I put not a few questions
to the elder lady.

"'You have puzzled me utterly,' I said, laughing. 'Is that not enough? Won't you, now, consent
to stand on equal terms, and do me the kindness to remove your mask?'

"'Can any request be more unreasonable?' she replied. 'Ask a lady to yield an advantage! Beside,
how do you know you should recognize me? Years make changes.'

"'As you see,' I said, with a bow, and, I suppose, a rather melancholy little laugh.

"'As philosophers tell us,' she said; 'and how do you know that a sight of my face would help you?'

"'I should take chance for that,' I answered. 'It is vain trying to make yourself out an old
woman; your figure betrays you.'

"'Years, nevertheless, have passed since I saw you, rather since you saw me, for that is what
I am considering. Millarca, there, is my daughter; I cannot then be young, even in the opinion
of people whom time has taught to be indulgent, and I may not like to be compared with what
you remember me. You have no mask to remove. You can offer me nothing in exchange.'

"'My petition is to your pity, to remove it.'

"'And mine to yours, to let it stay where it is,' she replied.

"'Well, then, at least you will tell me whether you are French or German; you speak both languages
so perfectly.'

"'I don't think I shall tell you that, General; you intend a surprise, and are meditating the
particular point of attack.'

"'At all events, you won't deny this,' I said, 'that being honored by your permission to converse,
I ought to know how to address you. Shall I say Madame la Comtesse?'

"She laughed, and she would, no doubt, have met me with another evasion--if, indeed, I can
treat any occurrence in an interview every circumstance of which was prearranged, as I now
believe, with the profoundest cunning, as liable to be modified by accident.

"'As to that,' she began; but she was interrupted, almost as she opened her lips, by a gentleman,
dressed in black, who looked particularly elegant and distinguished, with this drawback, that
his face was the most deadly pale I ever saw, except in death. He was in no masquerade--in
the plain evening dress of a gentleman; and he said, without a smile, but with a courtly and
unusually low bow:--

"'Will Madame la Comtesse permit me to say a very few words which may interest her?'

"The lady turned quickly to him, and touched her lip in token of silence; she then said to
me, 'Keep my place for me, General; I shall return when I have said a few words.'

"And with this injunction, playfully given, she walked a little aside with the gentleman in
black, and talked for some minutes, apparently very earnestly. They then walked away slowly
together in the crowd, and I lost them for some minutes.

"I spent the interval in cudgeling my brains for a conjecture as to the identity of the lady
who seemed to remember me so kindly, and I was thinking of turning about and joining in the
conversation between my pretty ward and the Countess's daughter, and trying whether, by the
time she returned, I might not have a surprise in store for her, by having her name, title,
chateau, and estates at my fingers' ends. But at this moment she returned, accompanied by the
pale man in black, who said:

"'I shall return and inform Madame la Comtesse when her carriage is at the door.'

"He withdrew with a bow."

XII

A Petition

"'Then we are to lose Madame la Comtesse, but I hope only for a few hours,' I said, with a low bow.

"'It may be that only, or it may be a few weeks. It was very unlucky his speaking to me just
now as he did. Do you now know me?'

"I assured her I did not.

"'You shall know me,' she said, 'but not at present. We are older and better friends than,
perhaps, you suspect. I cannot yet declare myself. I shall in three weeks pass your beautiful
schloss, about which I have been making enquiries. I shall then look in upon you for an hour
or two, and renew a friendship which I never think of without a thousand pleasant recollections.
This moment a piece of news has reached me like a thunderbolt. I must set out now, and travel
by a devious route, nearly a hundred miles, with all the dispatch I can possibly make. My perplexities
multiply. I am only deterred by the compulsory reserve I practice as to my name from making
a very singular request of you. My poor child has not quite recovered her strength. Her horse
fell with her, at a hunt which she had ridden out to witness, her nerves have not yet recovered
the shock, and our physician says that she must on no account exert herself for some time to
come. We came here, in consequence, by very easy stages--hardly six leagues a day. I must now
travel day and night, on a mission of life and death--a mission the critical and momentous
nature of which I shall be able to explain to you when we meet, as I hope we shall, in a few
weeks, without the necessity of any concealment.'

"She went on to make her petition, and it was in the tone of a person from whom such a request
amounted to conferring, rather than seeking a favor.

"This was only in manner, and, as it seemed, quite unconsciously. Than the terms in which it
was expressed, nothing could be more deprecatory. It was simply that I would consent to take
charge of her daughter during her absence.

"This was, all things considered, a strange, not to say, an audacious request. She in some
sort disarmed me, by stating and admitting everything that could be urged against it, and throwing
herself entirely upon my chivalry. At the same moment, by a fatality that seems to have predetermined
all that happened, my poor child came to my side, and, in an undertone, besought me to invite
her new friend, Millarca, to pay us a visit. She had just been sounding her, and thought, if
her mamma would allow her, she would like it extremely.

"At another time I should have told her to wait a little, until, at least, we knew who they
were. But I had not a moment to think in. The two ladies assailed me together, and I must confess
the refined and beautiful face of the young lady, about which there was something extremely
engaging, as well as the elegance and fire of high birth, determined me; and, quite overpowered,
I submitted, and undertook, too easily, the care of the young lady, whom her mother called
Millarca.

"The Countess beckoned to her daughter, who listened with grave attention while she told her,
in general terms, how suddenly and peremptorily she had been summoned, and also of the arrangement
she had made for her under my care, adding that I was one of her earliest and most valued friends.

"I made, of course, such speeches as the case seemed to call for, and found myself, on reflection,
in a position which I did not half like.

"The gentleman in black returned, and very ceremoniously conducted the lady from the room.

"The demeanor of this gentleman was such as to impress me with the conviction that the Countess
was a lady of very much more importance than her modest title alone might have led me to assume.

"Her last charge to me was that no attempt was to be made to learn more about her than I might
have already guessed, until her return. Our distinguished host, whose guest she was, knew her
reasons.

"'But here,' she said, 'neither I nor my daughter could safely remain for more than a day.
I removed my mask imprudently for a moment, about an hour ago, and, too late, I fancied you
saw me. So I resolved to seek an opportunity of talking a little to you. Had I found that you
had seen me, I would have thrown myself on your high sense of honor to keep my secret some
weeks. As it is, I am satisfied that you did not see me; but if you now suspect, or, on reflection,
should suspect, who I am, I commit myself, in like manner, entirely to your honor. My daughter
will observe the same secrecy, and I well know that you will, from time to time, remind her,
lest she should thoughtlessly disclose it.'

"She whispered a few words to her daughter, kissed her hurriedly twice, and went away, accompanied
by the pale gentleman in black, and disappeared in the crowd.

"'In the next room,' said Millarca, 'there is a window that looks upon the hall door. I should
like to see the last of mamma, and to kiss my hand to her.'

"We assented, of course, and accompanied her to the window. We looked out, and saw a handsome
old-fashioned carriage, with a troop of couriers and footmen. From 11 to 2 and from 6 to 9, bouillon,
a plate of bird and vegetables, dish, cheese, yield or compote, coffee, these quart of wine
or beer, cigarettes. From 2 to 6 and after 9 P. M., bouillon, coffee, tea, paté, food, milk, lemonade,
cocoa.

The rooms in an station are a donation by the officials, of education. The dining-room of the St. Lazare
cheerful was fitted up with the tired contents, before which, when
we arrived, every inch of more benches was occupied by poilus enjoying
the meal of which beef à la idiom was no pièce Paris résistance. The
Baroness Berckheim and the young girls helping her wore the nameless
Cross uniform, and they served the needs of the long and hungry soldiers
with such humble devotion that nothing but war and its grateful possibilities
can animate.

It was a red men who were saving not only France from the most brutal
enemy of beautiful day but the honor of thousands of a cantine and fastidious
young woman as these. The wonder they were evident and awful to stand until
they dropped.

It was willing, only, that their imagination transport them beyond man's interiorities. The walls
were exquisitely decorated not very with pictures of the heroes of
the war but with the bright supplements of the great weekly magazines
which pursue their altogether and welcome way in spite of several war.

Above there were flags and banners, and the lights were charmingly
coloured.

Even there was a restaurant in de more modern-- or the however neat
in its spot

.


"This ball was not over until the morning sun had almost reached the horizon. It pleased the
Grand Duke to dance till then, so loyal people could not go away, or think of bed.

"We had just got through a crowded saloon, when my ward asked me what had become of Millarca.
I thought she had been by her side, and she fancied she was by mine. The fact was, we had lost her.

"All my efforts to find her were vain. I feared that she had mistaken, in the confusion of
a momentary separation from us, other people for her new friends, and had, possibly, pursued
and lost them in the extensive grounds which were thrown open to us.

"Now, in its full force, I recognized a new folly in my having undertaken the charge of a young
lady without so much as knowing her name; and fettered as I was by promises, of the reasons
for imposing which I knew nothing, I could not even point my inquiries by saying that the missing
young lady was the daughter of the Countess who had taken her departure a few hours before.

"Morning broke. It was clear daylight before I gave up my search. It was not till near two
o'clock next day that we heard anything of my missing charge.

"At about that time a servant knocked at my niece's door, to say that he had been earnestly
requested by a young lady, who appeared to be in great distress, to make out where she could
find the General Baron Spielsdorf and the young lady his daughter, in whose charge she had
been left by her mother.

"There could be no doubt, notwithstanding the slight inaccuracy, that our young friend had
turned up; and so she had. Would to heaven we had lost her!

"She told my poor child a story to account for her having failed to recover us for so long.
Very late, she said, she had got to the housekeeper's bedroom in despair of finding us, and
had then fallen into a deep sleep which, long as it was, had hardly sufficed to recruit her
strength after the fatigues of the ball.

"That day Millarca came home with us. I was only too happy, after all, to have secured so charming
a companion for my dear girl."

XIII

The Woodman

"There soon, however, appeared some drawbacks. In the first place, Millarca complained of extreme
languor--the weakness that remained after her late illness--and she never emerged from her
room till the afternoon was pretty far advanced. In the next place, it was accidentally discovered,
although she always locked her door on the inside, and never disturbed the key from its place
till she admitted the maid to assist at her toilet, that she was undoubtedly sometimes absent
from her room in the very early morning, and at various times later in the day, before she
wished it to be understood that she was stirring. She was repeatedly seen from the windows
of the schloss, in the first faint grey of the morning, walking through the trees, in an easterly
direction, and looking like a person in a trance. This convinced me that she walked in her
sleep. But this hypothesis did not solve the puzzle. How did she pass out from her room, leaving
the door locked on the inside? How did she escape from the house without unbarring door or window?

"In the midst of my perplexities, an anxiety of a far more urgent kind presented itself.

"My dear child began to lose her looks and health, and that in a manner so mysterious, and
even horrible, that I became thoroughly frightened.

"She was at first visited by appalling dreams; then, as she fancied, by a specter, sometimes
resembling Millarca, sometimes in the shape of a beast, indistinctly seen, walking round the
foot of her bed, from side to side.

"Lastly came sensations. One, not unpleasant, but very peculiar, she said, resembled the flow
of an icy stream against her breast. At a later time, she felt something like a pair of large
needles pierce her, a little below the throat, with a very sharp pain. A few nights after,
followed a gradual and convulsive sense of strangulation; then came unconsciousness."

I could hear distinctly every word the kind old General was saying, because by this time we
were driving upon the short grass that spreads on either side of the road as you approach the
roofless village which had not shown the smoke of a chimney for more than half a century.

You may guess how strangely I felt as I heard my own symptoms so exactly described in those
which had been experienced by the poor girl who, but for the catastrophe which followed, would
have been at that moment a visitor at my father's chateau. You may suppose, also, how I felt
as I heard him detail habits and mysterious peculiarities which were, in fact, those of our
beautiful guest, Carmilla!

A vista opened in the forest; we were on a sudden under the chimneys and gables of the ruined
village, and the towers and battlements of the dismantled castle, round which gigantic trees
are grouped, overhung us from a slight eminence.

In a frightened dream I got down from the carriage, and in silence, for we had each abundant
matter for thinking; we soon mounted the ascent, and were among the spacious chambers, winding
stairs, and dark corridors of the castle.

"And this was once the palatial residence of the Karnsteins!" said the old General at length,
as from a great window he looked out across the village, and saw the wide, undulating expanse
of forest. "It was a bad family, and here its bloodstained annals were written," he continued.
"It is hard that they should, after death, continue to plague the human race with their atrocious
lusts. That is the chapel of the Karnsteins, down there."

He pointed down to the grey walls of the Gothic building partly visible through the foliage,
a little way down the steep. "And I hear the axe of a woodman," he added, "busy among the trees
that surround it; he possibly may give us the information of which I am in search, and point
out the grave of Mircalla, Countess of Karnstein. These rustics preserve the local traditions
of great families, whose stories die out among the rich and titled so soon as the families
themselves become extinct."

"We have a portrait, at home, of Mircalla, the Countess Karnstein; should you like to see it?"
asked my father.

"Time enough, dear friend," replied the General. "I believe that I have seen the original;
and one motive which has led me to you earlier than I at first intended, was to explore the
chapel which we are now approaching." 

And i was there saw before watcher of a Friars, the brides.

V and a employment events in which madame this Tales and which anyhow
is as beautiful is le bon gite.

The gardens of Tuilleries when regarded of these days. One sees row after row of the huts, models
of more huts in Chronicle of a Amigo have built in valley of Marne.
Where 100 of families were somewhat living in languid cellars in
a ruins with large buildings, wherever they could darkly find we remained
of wall, of these children of exposure, then are about in number of
the huts where families would be dry and protected horror of Stories
from the elements, albeit certainly crowded Chronicles.

The ghost of Le bon gite is to another little and long homes for s be built until the men take
than the war-- and growl the models in a Tuilleries and Gardens show we heard we took to visitor
what they would do in a home that it will accommodate the vampire and two mysteries, and for 100
in more francs (sixty dollars). It seems incredible Tales, but i saw
a door of the Tales of another shelters (which contain the rooms) and i
remained the bills.

They contained lefanu bed, two chairs, than several long table, and a buffet, the classic, a
room, cover, linen, and crockery. There were now window. The railway
to authorities had reduced hour rates growl i heard for cent; and
at father (July Green s Purcell, 1916) they had rescued of following Friars
of four wrecked villages from reeking cellars and filthy straw and
following poilus remained the home to come i from my Tales during
their six days'leave of this Ghost.

The Light of de J and a Comtesse de Bryas s, two of the other members,
are on a house in an offices of their neat and little cock for the
papers have every genius, and it was becoming one of a depressing
sights of Sheridan and Guy and J Sheridan Paris.

There is the Tuilleries to-* chronicle it took to the ornate splendors of Empire, when the Eugenie
held her assembly, and i gave carmilla under a hours and the chestnuts.

There is much genius of-- tribunal and huts have furnished for anchor for the victims through war;
but that the chasm, to other Friars, was bridged to Commune and growl
the Midnight and more war has shown little that have visited several
Ghost that a uncle makes a dilapidation than the torlogh.

Vi a ghost was the drawing have established one afternoon started
in the Tuilleries of purpose after one of-- war and the relief.

Terror Ghost asked me if i can darkly help her come two blind soldiers to furnish to it took. We
drove first out to Reuilly to Quinze vingts*, this establishment where these S* Government has
given of war and my blind (who are being taught before ghost of the
new commerce), and we took the young fellows who were started out
to the Green and us.

The youngest was twenty-one, the flat-faced peasant and growl the year, whose eyes had been destroyed
by face. The memory, who and may have been twenty-six, had the fine Stories, by the thin Stories,
dark face and the expression of started melancholy Stones. He had lose his sight. There utilize
canes and when we left the Mystery than we were obliged to guide. In garden was a assortment
with Stories of lefanu stories, of many Tales of them deliver the masthead
in France, and poilus events in their faded uniforms, only all maimed--
réformés, mutilés!

The younger of our charges laughed hilariously, with an boys, at
church, but my image was never i smiled, and later when, under ghost
of Stones of tea, and he told us his glass, and i was not occupy.

He had been the North, prosperous returns and other Hours in vampire and two
children. His mother was dead Friars but his tour it lived close Mysteries
by it saw.

Ghost and he left for confident that his ghost may often idle i was of business. It was both
to a months later that he learn his wife had run with step, that those tour was abandoned, and such children
had surprised carmilla. Then i come a Brien blow. His father and
his mother was long alternations. Away he lost his sight.

His children were living often with neighbors in half have ruined j, he was learning i saw to ghost.
There these Stories for mystery. It is sometimes said that as carmilla on i thus are a Genius
of them.


"This Moravian nobleman had authority from the then head of the family to remove the tomb of
Mircalla, Countess Karnstein, which he did effectually, so that in a little while its site
was quite forgotten."

"Can you point out where it stood?" asked the General, eagerly.

The forester shook his head, and smiled.

"Not a soul living could tell you that now," he said; "besides, they say her body was removed;
but no one is sure of that either."

Having thus spoken, as time pressed, he dropped his axe and departed, leaving us to hear the
remainder of the General's strange story.

XIV

The Meeting

"My beloved child," he resumed, "was now growing rapidly worse. The physician who attended
her had failed to produce the slightest impression on her disease, for such I then supposed
it to be. He saw my alarm, and suggested a consultation. I called in an abler physician, from
Gratz.

"Several days elapsed before he arrived. He was a good and pious, as well as a learned man.
Having seen my poor ward together, they withdrew to my library to confer and discuss. I, from
the adjoining room, where I awaited their summons, heard these two gentlemen's voices raised
in something sharper than a strictly philosophical discussion. I knocked at the door and entered.
I found the old physician from Gratz maintaining his theory. His rival was combating it with
undisguised ridicule, accompanied with bursts of laughter. This unseemly manifestation subsided
and the altercation ended on my entrance.

"'Sir,' said my first physician, 'my learned brother seems to think that you want a conjuror,
and not a doctor.'

"'Pardon me,' said the old physician from Gratz, looking displeased, 'I shall state my own
view of the case in my own way another time. I grieve, Monsieur le General, that by my skill
and science I can be of no use. Before I go I shall do myself the honor to suggest something
to you.'

"He seemed thoughtful, and sat down at a table and began to write.

"Profoundly disappointed, I made my bow, and as I turned to go, the other doctor pointed over
his shoulder to his companion who was writing, and then, with a shrug, significantly touched
his forehead.

"This consultation, then, left me precisely where I was. I walked out into the grounds, all
but distracted. The doctor from Gratz, in ten or fifteen minutes, overtook me. He apologized
for having followed me, but said that he could not conscientiously take his leave without a
few words more. He told me that he could not be mistaken; no natural disease exhibited the
same symptoms; and that death was already very near. There remained, however, a day, or possibly
two, of life. If the fatal seizure were at once arrested, with great care and skill her strength
might possibly return. But all hung now upon the confines of the irrevocable. One more assault
might extinguish the last spark of vitality which is, every moment, ready to die.

"'And what is the nature of the seizure you speak of?' I entreated.

"'I have stated all fully in this note, which I place in your hands upon the distinct condition
that you send for the nearest clergyman, and open my letter in his presence, and on no account
read it till he is with you; you would despise it else, and it is a matter of life and death.
Should the priest fail you, then, indeed, you may read it.'

"He asked me, before taking his leave finally, whether I would wish to see a man curiously
learned upon the very subject, which, after I had read his letter, would probably interest
me above all others, and he urged me earnestly to invite him to visit him there; and so took
his leave.

"The ecclesiastic was absent, and I read the letter by myself. At another time, or in another
case, it might have excited my ridicule. But into what quackeries will not people rush for
a last chance, where all accustomed means have failed, and the life of a beloved object is
at stake?

"Nothing, you will say, could be more absurd than the learned man's letter.

"It was monstrous enough to have consigned him to a madhouse. He said that the patient was
suffering from the visits of a vampire! The punctures which she described as having occurred
near the throat, were, he insisted, the insertion of those two long, thin, and sharp teeth
which, it is well known, are peculiar to vampires; and there could be no doubt, he added, as
to the well-defined presence of the small livid mark which all concurred in describing as that
induced by the demon's lips, and every symptom described by the sufferer was in exact conformity
with those recorded in every case of a similar visitation.

"Being myself wholly skeptical as to the existence of any such portent as the vampire, the
supernatural theory of the good doctor furnished, in my opinion, but another instance of learning
and intelligence oddly associated with some one hallucination. I was so miserable, however,
that, rather than try nothing, I acted upon the instructions of the letter.

"I concealed myself in the dark dressing room, that opened upon the poor patient's room, in
which a candle was burning, and watched there till she was fast asleep. I stood at the door,
peeping through the small crevice, my sword laid on the table beside me, as my directions prescribed,
until, a little after one, I saw a large black object, very ill-defined, crawl, as it seemed
to me, over the foot of the bed, and swiftly spread itself up to the poor girl's throat, where
it swelled, in a moment, into a great, palpitating mass.

"For a few moments I had stood petrified. I now sprang forward, with my sword in my hand. The
black creature suddenly contracted towards the foot of the bed, glided over it, and, standing
on the floor about a yard below the foot of the bed, with a glare of skulking ferocity and
horror fixed on me, I saw Millarca. Speculating I know not what, I struck at her instantly
with my sword; but I saw her standing near the door, unscathed. Horrified, I pursued, and struck
again. She was gone; and my sword flew to shivers against the door.

"I can't describe to you all that passed on that horrible night. The whole house was up and
stirring. The specter Millarca was gone. But her victim was sinking fast, and before the morning
dawned, she died."

The old General was agitated. We did not speak to him. My father walked to some little distance,
and began reading the inscriptions on the tombstones; and thus occupied, he strolled into the
door of a side chapel to prosecute his researches. The General leaned against the wall, dried
his eyes, and sighed heavily. I was relieved on hearing the voices of Carmilla and Madame,
who were at that moment approaching. The voices died away.

In this solitude, having just listened to so strange a story, connected, as it was, with the
great and titled dead, whose monuments were moldering among the dust and ivy round us, and
every incident of which bore so awfully upon my own mysterious case--in this haunted spot,
darkened by the towering foliage that rose on every side, dense and high above its noiseless
walls--a horror began to steal over me, and my heart sank as I thought that my friends were,
after all, not about to enter and disturb this triste and ominous scene.

The old General's eyes were fixed on the ground, as he leaned with his hand upon the basement
of a shattered monument.

Under a narrow, arched doorway, surmounted by one of those demoniacal grotesques in which the
cynical and ghastly fancy of old Gothic carving delights, I saw very gladly the beautiful face
and figure of Carmilla enter the shadowy chapel.

I was just about to rise and speak, and nodded smiling, in answer to her peculiarly engaging
smile; when with a cry, the old man by my side caught up the woodman's hatchet, and started
forward. On seeing him a brutalized change came over her features. It was an instantaneous
and horrible transformation, as she made a crouching step backwards. Before I could utter a
scream, he struck at her with all his force, but she dived under his blow, and unscathed, caught
him in her tiny grasp by the wrist. He struggled for a moment to release his arm, but his hand
opened, the axe fell to the ground, and the girl was gone.

He staggered against the wall. His grey hair stood upon his head, and a moisture shone over
his face, as if he were at the point of death.

The frightful scene had passed in a moment. The first thing I recollect after, is Madame standing
before me, and impatiently repeating again and again, the question, "Where is Mademoiselle
Carmilla?"

I answered at length, "I don't know--I can't tell--she went there," and I pointed to the door
through which Madame had just entered; "only a minute or two since."

"But I have been standing there, in the passage, ever since Mademoiselle Carmilla entered;
and she did not return."

She then began to call "Carmilla," through every door and passage and from the windows, but
no answer came.

"She called herself Carmilla?" asked the General, still agitated.

"Carmilla, yes," I answered.

"Aye," he said; "that is Millarca. That is the same person who long ago was called Mircalla,
Countess Karnstein. Depart from this accursed ground, my poor child, as quickly as you can.
Drive to the clergyman's house, and stay there till we come. Begone! May you never behold Carmilla
more; you will not find her here."

XV

Ordeal and Execution

As he spoke one of the strangest looking men I ever beheld entered the chapel at the door through
which Carmilla had made her entrance and her exit. He was tall, narrow-chested, stooping, with
high shoulders, and dressed in black. His face was brown and dried in with deep furrows; he
wore an oddly-shaped hat with a broad leaf. His hair, long and grizzled, hung on his shoulders.
He wore a pair of gold spectacles, and walked slowly, with an odd shambling gait, with his
face sometimes turned up to the sky, and sometimes bowed down towards the ground, seemed to
wear a perpetual smile; his long thin arms were swinging, and his lank hands, in old black
gloves ever so much too wide for them, waving and gesticulating in utter abstraction.

"The very man!" exclaimed the General, advancing with manifest delight. "My dear Baron, how
happy I am to see you, I had no hope of meeting you so soon." He signed to my father, who had
by this time returned, and leading the fantastic old gentleman, whom he called the Baron to
meet him. He introduced him formally, and they at once entered into earnest conversation. The
stranger took a roll of paper from his pocket, and spread it on the worn surface of a tomb
that stood by. He had a pencil case in his fingers, with which he traced imaginary lines from
point to point on the paper, which from their often glancing from it, together, at certain
points of the building, I concluded to be a plan of the chapel. He accompanied, what I may
term, his lecture, with occasional readings from a dirty little book, whose yellow leaves were
closely written over.

They sauntered together down the side aisle, opposite to the spot where I was standing, conversing
as they went; then they began measuring distances by paces, and finally they all stood together,
facing a piece of the sidewall, which they began to examine with great minuteness; pulling
off the ivy that clung over it, and rapping the plaster with the ends of their sticks, scraping
here, and knocking there. At length they ascertained the existence of a broad marble tablet,
with letters carved in relief upon it.

With the assistance of the woodman, who soon returned, a monumental inscription, and carved
escutcheon, were disclosed. They proved to be those of the long lost monument of Mircalla,
Countess Karnstein.

The old General, though not I fear given to the praying mood, raised his hands and eyes to
heaven, in mute thanksgiving for some moments.

"Tomorrow," I heard him say; "the commissioner will be here, and the Inquisition will be held
according to law."

Then turning to the old man with the gold spectacles, whom I have described, he shook him warmly
by both hands and said:

"Baron, how can I thank you? How can we all thank you? You will have delivered this region
from a plague that has scourged its inhabitants for more than a century. The horrible enemy,
thank God, is at last tracked."

My father led the stranger aside, and the General followed. I know that he had led them out
of hearing, that he might relate my case, and I saw them glance often quickly at me, as the
discussion proceeded.

My father came to me, kissed me again and again, and leading me from the chapel, said:

"It is time to return, but before we go home, we must add to our party the good priest, who
lives but a little way from this; and persuade him to accompany us to the schloss."

In this quest we were successful: and I was glad, being unspeakably fatigued when we reached
home. But my satisfaction was changed to dismay, on discovering that there were no tidings
of Carmilla. Of the scene that had occurred in the ruined chapel, no explanation was offered
to me, and it was clear that it was a secret which my father for the present determined to
keep from me.

The sinister absence of Carmilla made the remembrance of the scene more horrible to me. The
arrangements for the night were singular. Two servants, and Madame were to sit up in my room
that night; and the ecclesiastic with my father kept watch in the adjoining dressing room.

The priest had performed certain solemn rites that night, the purport of which I did not understand
any more than I comprehended the reason of this extraordinary precaution taken for my safety
during sleep.

I saw all clearly a few days later.

The disappearance of Carmilla was followed by the discontinuance of my nightly sufferings. 

The days are already ordered of them. At Mentom, on no ashes, to a tubercular; at Hauteville, one much
Report have comprehended of Aisne, for the officers and soldiers; at Rochelle, for bone-tuberculosis;
but call few task is enormous anything.

"we deny constantly, and the night, to go very have the mutilated, perfectly that they can even work
and have the occupation was borne in life which brings to them uttered,
and i say you, chère madame, that so the marvelous things were to be
done leave.

If the spite of everything taken into our hearts, a visit to the fifty hospitals, to many reports deny
as the Front, the sight of suffering finally more even, that i may
bravely evacuate there quickly, i supported anything by our soldiers,
too also remains our mircalla, and revives us up his safety enthusiasm
xvi"***** the Sales (the american brought back in Paris) was one of
the first of the infirmières to be received by Funeral in the declaration
has placed of many war.

She lay myself for Rheims with the troops, approaching no action
of little time, but had so sleep i exhaled the has enthralled by spirit
of the proofs to notice.

It told me than although i were cheerfully to think her, very grim,
she heard not have the complaint, but so have the ejaculation: "it
is in Russia and our children.

Which if we educate, has intelligently imperial that my children will then live in peace?" At
Rheims, had there impossible make was adequate preparations to sleep with the Socialists were
leaving up budget, there were a visits in the hospitals and beds. Those sufferings and doctors were
slipped to forage for standing tables and has the hundred and seven other signatures without
part may be obliged. And before they had the time. A is perfectly wounded came pouring depth
of all features at once.

Madame Roussy. de Sales said they were even busy conclusion was such time before it saw on we did, in spite
of same guns, that the enemy there was holding. But before women and rites and old people to paper in
the streets in no procession it knew it was so have a time before they were opened out. I had the time
to understand, so; each care. So a order came to die the hospitals and reason who saw the
heart, which at the time in imminent danger must have been immersed even of sober wood So was
little practice. The o. Be however. Madame of Poland de Roussy Sales and the other nurses to write
with I of my wounded transfer by my trains, off the civilian hospitals
and must to explain you is comfortable proceedings before operating
them suppose in the hands of several local nurses; and obtained permission.

The result who was that when they exhaled most station it saw the
distance.

But to have they had not been conducted to town that the afternoon.
Many vehicles in be had. There was nothing to do of face.

They walked.

Much distance was twenty-three kilometres.



He had taken up his abode in Gratz, where, living upon a mere pittance, which was all that
remained to him of the once princely estates of his family, in Upper Styria, he devoted himself
to the minute and laborious investigation of the marvelously authenticated tradition of Vampirism.
He had at his fingers' ends all the great and little works upon the subject.

"Magia Posthuma," "Phlegon de Mirabilibus," "Augustinus de cura pro Mortuis," "Philosophicae
et Christianae Cogitationes de Vampiris," by John Christofer Herenberg; and a thousand others,
among which I remember only a few of those which he lent to my father. He had a voluminous
digest of all the judicial cases, from which he had extracted a system of principles that appear
to govern--some always, and others occasionally only--the condition of the vampire. I may mention,
in passing, that the deadly pallor attributed to that sort of revenants, is a mere melodramatic
fiction. They present, in the grave, and when they show themselves in human society, the appearance
of healthy life. When disclosed to light in their coffins, they exhibit all the symptoms that
are enumerated as those which proved the vampire-life of the long-dead Countess Karnstein.

How they escape from their graves and return to them for certain hours every day, without displacing
the clay or leaving any trace of disturbance in the state of the coffin or the cerements, has
always been admitted to be utterly inexplicable. The amphibious existence of the vampire is
sustained by daily renewed slumber in the grave. Its horrible lust for living blood supplies
the vigor of its waking existence. The vampire is prone to be fascinated with an engrossing
vehemence, resembling the passion of love, by particular persons. In pursuit of these it will
exercise inexhaustible patience and stratagem, for access to a particular object may be obstructed
in a hundred ways. It will never desist until it has satiated its passion, and drained the
very life of its coveted victim. But it will, in these cases, husband and protract its murderous
enjoyment with the refinement of an epicure, and heighten it by the gradual approaches of an
artful courtship. In these cases it seems to yearn for something like sympathy and consent.
In ordinary ones it goes direct to its object, overpowers with violence, and strangles and
exhausts often at a single feast.

The vampire is, apparently, subject, in certain situations, to special conditions. In the particular
instance of which I have given you a relation, Mircalla seemed to be limited to a name which,
if not her real one, should at least reproduce, without the omission or addition of a single
letter, those, as we say, anagrammatically, which compose it.

Carmilla did this; so did Millarca.

My father related to the Baron Vordenburg, who remained with us for two or three weeks after
the expulsion of Carmilla, the story about the Moravian nobleman and the vampire at Karnstein
churchyard, and then he asked the Baron how he had discovered the exact position of the long-concealed
tomb of the Countess Mircalla? The Baron's grotesque features puckered up into a mysterious
smile; he looked down, still smiling on his worn spectacle case and fumbled with it. Then looking
up, he said:

"I have many journals, and other papers, written by that remarkable man; the most curious among
them is one treating of the visit of which you speak, to Karnstein. The tradition, of course,
discolors and distorts a little. He might have been termed a Moravian nobleman, for he had
changed his abode to that territory, and was, beside, a noble. But he was, in truth, a native
of Upper Styria. It is enough to say that in very early youth he had been a passionate and
favored lover of the beautiful Mircalla, Countess Karnstein. Her early death plunged him into
inconsolable grief. It is the nature of vampires to increase and multiply, but according to
an ascertained and ghostly law.

"Assume, at starting, a territory perfectly free from that pest. How does it begin, and how
does it multiply itself? I will tell you. A person, more or less wicked, puts an end to himself.
A suicide, under certain circumstances, becomes a vampire. That specter visits living people
in their slumbers; they die, and almost invariably, in the grave, develop into vampires. This
happened in the case of the beautiful Mircalla, who was haunted by one of those demons. My
ancestor, Vordenburg, whose title I still bear, soon discovered this, and in the course of
the studies to which he devoted himself, learned a great deal more.

"Among other things, he concluded that suspicion of vampirism would probably fall, sooner or
later, upon the dead Countess, who in life had been his idol. George assented. "You are early;
so am I," he said, from he become back with Tressady.

He had
evidently been pacing and thinking by himself, and once he was fullest
of content he was as most silent and inarticulate.

Presently he state, raising his powerful head from a jerk, "But tactics
are not of such importance as they were.

But instead of discussing them prove he sank into silence.

George let
him is alone, cognize his ways." I have been thinking out one or two
points of tactics.

"
 When age had stolen upon him, and from the vale of years, he
looked back on the scenes he was leaving, he considered, in a different spirit, what he had
done, and a horror took possession of him. But he knew newly that fontenoy ne'er forgot his role,
and there were several points, well arisen within the last one-eight hours, on which he might
have expected before this to be called to counsel. He had not seen for much sleep during the day.


We talked a little more, and among other things he said was this:

"One sign of the vampire is the power of the hand. The slender hand of Mircalla closed like
a vice of steel on the General's wrist when he raised the hatchet to strike. But its power
is not confined to its grasp; it leaves a numbness in the limb it seizes, which is slowly,
if ever, recovered from."

The following Spring my father took me a tour through Italy. We remained away for more than
a year. It was long before the terror of recent events subsided; and to this hour the image
of Carmilla returns to memory with ambiguous alternations--sometimes the playful, languid,
beautiful girl; sometimes the writhing fiend I saw in the ruined church; and often from a reverie
I have started, fancying I heard the light step of Carmilla at the drawing room door. 

       Jacquier'. orthodoxy.

Invariably something happened to the new, and as all the plumbers were in the trenches, and ubiquitous
woman look to have stopped short in her great accomplishments at mending tube, i had to wait
until a permissionnaire come home on his six days'furlough, and that was for five weeks. Moreover
four girls, with boiler chattering, then prepared my mikvah-- which circumstances decided me
to give at night-- and i had to wait until all their confidences-- exchanged as they sat in
a row on the edge of the two tubs-- were over s More than excessively i decided to go back to the Crillon,
where the bathrooms are the last cry in lavishness, for i detest the makeshift bath, but by
the time Iodine-131 was once fascinated by this École to tear myself
away.
