We are delivering planes and vital war supplies for the heroic armies of Generalissimo Chiang
Sai-shek, and we must do more at all costs.

Our air supply line from India to China across enemy territory continues despite attempted
Japanese interference.  We have seized the initiative from the Japanese in the air over Burma
and now we enjoy superiority.  We are bombing Japanese communications, supply dumps, and bases
in China, in Indo-China, in Burma.

But we are still far from our main objectives in the war against Japan.  Let us remember, however,
how far we were a year ago from any of our objectives in the European theatre.  We are pushing
forward to occupation of positions which in time will enable us to attack the Japanese Islands
themselves from the North, from the South, from the East, and from the West.

You have heard it said that while we are succeeding greatly on the fighting front, we are failing
miserably on the home front.  I think this is another of those immaturities--a false slogan
easy to state but untrue in the essential facts.

For the longer this war goes on the clearer it becomes that no one can draw a blue pencil down
the middle of a page and call one side "the fighting front" and the other side "the home front."
For the two of them are inexorably tied together.

Every combat division, every naval task force, every squadron of fighting planes is dependent
for its equipment and ammunition and fuel and food, as indeed it is for its manpower, dependent
on the American people in civilian clothes in the offices and in the factories and on the farms
at home.

The same kind of careful planning that gained victory in North Africa and Sicily is required,
if we are to make victory an enduring reality and do our share in building the kind of peaceful
world that will justify the sacrifices made in this war.

The United Nations are substantially agreed on the general objectives for the post-war world.
They are also agreed that this is not the time to engage in an international discussion of
all the terms of peace and all the details of the future.  Let us win the war first.  We must
not relax our pressure on the enemy by taking time out to define every boundary and settle
every political controversy in every part of the world.  The important thing--the all-important
thing now is to get on with the war--and to win it.

While concentrating on military victory, we are not neglecting the planning of the things to
come, the freedoms which we know will make for more decency and greater justice throughout
the world.

Among many other things we are, today, laying plans for the return to civilian life of our
gallant men and women in the armed services.  They must not be demobilized into an environment
of inflation and unemployment, to a place on a bread line, or on a corner selling apples. 
We must, this time, have plans ready-- instead of waiting to do a hasty, inefficient, and ill-considered
job at the last moment.

I have assured our men in the armed forces that the American people would not let them down
when the war is won.

I hope that the Congress will help in carrying out this assurance, for obviously the executive
branch of the government cannot do it alone.  May the Congress do its duty in this regard.
The American people will insist on fulfilling this American obligation to the men and women
in the armed forces who are winning this war for us.

Of course, the returning soldier and sailor and marine are a part of the problem of demobilizing
the rest of the millions of Americans who have been working and living in a war economy since
1941.  That larger objective of reconverting wartime America to a peacetime basis is one for
which your government is laying plans to be submitted to the Congress for action.

But the members of the armed forces have been compelled to make greater economic sacrifice
and every other kind of sacrifice than the rest of us, and they are entitled to definite action
to help take care of their special problems.

The least to which they are entitled, it seems to me, is something like this:

First, mustering-out pay to every member of the armed forces and merchant marine when he or
she is honorably discharged; mustering- out pay large enough in each case to cover a reasonable
period of time between his discharge and the finding of a new job.

Second, in case no job is found after diligent search, then unemployment insurance if the individual
registers with the United States Employment Service.

Third, an opportunity for members of the armed services to get further education or trade training
at the cost of the government.

Fourth, allowance of credit to all members of the armed forces, under unemployment compensation
and federal old-age and survivors' insurance, for their period of service.  For these purposes
they ought to be treated as if they had continued their employment in private industry.

Fifth, improved and liberalized provisions for hospitalization, for rehabilitation, for medical
care of disabled members of the armed forces and the merchant marine.

And finally, sufficient pensions for disabled members of the armed forces.

Your government is drawing up other serious, constructive plans for certain immediate forward
moves.  They concern food, manpower, and other domestic problems that tie in with our armed forces.

Within a few weeks I shall speak with you again in regard to definite actions to be taken by
the executive branch of the government, and specific recommendations for new legislation by
the Congress.

All our calculations for the future, however, must be based on clear understanding of the problems
involved.  And that can be gained only by straight thinking--not guesswork, not political manipulation.

I confess that I myself am sometimes bewildered by conflicting statements that I see in the
press.  One day I read an "authoritative" statement that we shall win the war this year, 1943--and
the next day comes another statement equally "authoritative," that the war will still be going
on in 1949.

Of course, both extremes--of optimism and pessimism--are wrong.

The length of the war will depend upon the uninterrupted continuance of all-out effort on the
fighting fronts and here at home, and that effort is all one.

The American soldier does not like the necessity of waging war.  And yet--if he lays off for
one single instant he may lose his own life and sacrifice the lives of his comrades.

By the same token--a worker here at home may not like the driving, wartime conditions under
which he has to work and live.  And yet--if he gets complacent or indifferent and slacks on
his job, he too may sacrifice the lives of American soldiers and contribute to the loss of
an important battle.

The next time anyone says to you that this war is "in the bag," or says "it's all over but
the shouting," you should ask him these questions:

"Are you working full time on your job?"

"Are you growing all the food you can?"

"Are you buying your limit of war bonds?"

"Are you loyally and cheerfully cooperating with your government in preventing inflation and
profiteering, and in making rationing work with fairness to all?"

"Because--if your answer is 'No'--then the war is going to last a lot longer than you think.²

The plans we made for the knocking out of Mussolini and his gang have largely succeeded.  But
we still have to knock out Hitler and his gang, and Tojo and his gang.  No one of us pretends
that this will be an easy matter.

We still have to defeat Hitler and Tojo on their own home grounds. But this will require a
far greater concentration of our national energy and our ingenuity and our skill.

It is not too much to say that we must pour into this war the entire strength and intelligence
and will power of the United States.  We are a great nation--a rich nation--but we are not
so great or so rich that we can afford to waste our substance or the lives or our men by relaxing
along the way.

We shall not settle for less than total victory.  That is the determination of every American
on the fighting fronts.  That must be, and will be, the determination of every American here
at home.

September 8, 1943.

My Fellow Americans:

Once upon a time, a few years ago, there was a city in our Middle West which was threatened
by a destructive flood in the great river.  The waters had risen to the top of the banks. 
Every man, woman and child in that city was called upon to fill sand bags in order to defend
their homes against the rising waters.  For many days and nights, destruction and death stared
them in the face.

As a result of the grim, determined community effort, that city still stands.  Those people
kept the levees above the peak of the flood.  All of them joined together in the desperate
job that had to be done--business men, workers, farmers, and doctors, and preachers--people
of all races.

To me, that town is a living symbol of what community cooperation can accomplish.

Today, in the same kind of community effort, only very much larger, the United Nations and
their peoples have kept the levees of civilization high enough to prevent the floods of aggression
and barbarism and wholesale murder from engulfing us all.  The flood has been raging for four
years.  At last we are beginning to gain on it; but the waters have not yet receded enough
for us to relax our sweating work with the sand bags.  In this war bond campaign we are filling
bags and placing them against the flood--bags which are essential if we are to stand off the
ugly torrent which is trying to sweep us all away.

Today, it is announced that an armistice with Italy has been concluded.

This was a great victory for the United Nations--but it was also a great victory for the Italian
people.  After years of war and suffering and degradation, the Italian people are at last coming
to the day of liberation from their real enemies, the Nazis.

But let us not delude ourselves that this armistice means the end of the war in the Mediterranean.
We still have to drive the Germans out of Italy as we have driven them out of Tunisia and Sicily;
we must drive them out of France and all other captive countries; and we must strike them on
their own soil from all directions.

Our ultimate objectives in this war continue to be Berlin and Tokyo.

I ask you to bear these objectives constantly in mind--and do not forget that we still have
a long way to go before we attain them.

The great news that you have heard today from General Eisenhower does not give you license
to settle back in your rocking chairs and say, "Well, that does it.  We've got 'em on the run.
Now we can start the celebration."

The time for celebration is not yet.  And I have a suspicion that when this war does end, we
shall not be in a very celebrating mood, a very celebrating frame of mind.  I think that our
main emotion will be one of grim determination that this shall not happen again.

During the past weeks, Mr. Churchill and I have been in constant conference with the leaders
of our combined fighting forces.  We have been in constant communication with our fighting
Allies, Russian and Chinese, who are prosecuting the war with relentless determination and
with conspicuous success on far distant fronts. And Mr. Churchill and I are here together in
Washington at this crucial moment.

We have seen the satisfactory fulfillment of plans that were made in Casablanca last January
and here in Washington last May.  And lately we have made new, extensive plans for the future.
But throughout these conferences we have never lost sight of the fact that this war will become
bigger and tougher, rather than easier, during the long months that are to come.

This war does not and must not stop for one single instant.  Your fighting men know that. 
Those of them who are moving forward through jungles against lurking Japs--those who are landing
at this moment, in barges moving through the dawn up to strange enemy coasts--those who are
diving their bombers down on the targets at roof-top level at this moment--every one of these
men knows that this war is a full-time job and that it will continue to be that until total
victory is won.

And, by the same token, every responsible leader in all the United Nations knows that the fighting
goes on twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, and that any day lost may have to be paid
for in terms of months added to the duration of the war.

Every campaign, every single operation in all the campaigns that we plan and carry through
must be figured in terms of staggering material costs.  We cannot afford to be niggardly with
any of our resources, for we shall need all of them to do the job that we have put our shoulder to.

Your fellow Americans have given a magnificent account of themselves--on the battlefields and
on the oceans and in the skies all over the world.

Now it is up to you to prove to them that you are contributing your share and more than your
share.  It is not sufficient to simply to put into War Bonds money which we would normally
save.  We must put into War Bonds money which we would not normally save.  Only then have we
done everything that good conscience demands.  So it is up to you--up to you, the Americans
in the American homes--the very homes which our sons and daughters are working and fighting
and dying to preserve.

I know I speak for every man and woman throughout the Americas when I say that we Americans
will not be satisfied to send our troops into the fire of the enemy with equipment inferior
in any way.  Nor will we be satisfied to send our troops with equipment only equal to that
of the enemy.  We are determined to provide our troops with overpowering superiority--superiority
of quantity and quality in any and every category of arms and armaments that they may conceivably
need.

And where does this our dominating power come from?  Why, it can come only from you.  The money
you lend and the money you give in taxes buys that death-dealing, and at the same time life-saving
power that we need for victory.  This is an expensive war--expensive in money; you can help
it--you can help to keep it at a minimum cost in lives.

The American people will never stop to reckon the cost of redeeming civilization.  They know
there can never be any economic justification for failing to save freedom.

We can be sure that our enemies will watch this drive with the keenest interest.  They know
that success in this undertaking will shorten the war.  They know that the more money the American
people lend to their government, the more powerful and relentless will be the American forces
in the field.  They know that only a united and determined America could possibly produce on
a voluntary basis so huge a sum of money as fifteen billion dollars.

The overwhelming success of the Second War Loan Drive last April showed that the people of
this Democracy stood firm behind their troops.

This Third War Loan, which we are starting tonight, will also succeed--because the American
people will not permit it to fail.

I cannot tell you how much to invest in War Bonds during this Third War Loan Drive.  No one
can tell you.  It is for you to decide under the guidance of your own conscience.

I will say this, however.  Because the nation's needs are greater than ever before, our sacrifices
too must be greater than they have ever been before.

Nobody knows when total victory will come--but we do know that the harder we fight now, the
more might and power we direct at the enemy now, the shorter the war will be and the smaller
the sum total of sacrifice.

Success of the Third War Loan will be the symbol that America does not propose to rest on its
arms--that we know the tough, bitter job ahead and will not stop until we have finished it.

Now it is your turn!

Every dollar that you invest in the Third War Loan is your personal message of defiance to
our common enemies--to the ruthless savages of Germany and Japan--and it is your personal message
of faith and good cheer to our Allies and to all the men at the front.  God bless them!

December 24, 1943.

My Friends:

I have recently returned from extensive journeying in the region of the Mediterranean and as
far as the borders of Russia.  I have conferred with the leaders of Britain and Russia and
China on military matters of the present--especially on plans for stepping- up our successful
attack on our enemies as quickly as possible and from many different points of the compass.

On this Christmas Eve there are over 10,000,000 men in the armed forces of the United States
alone.  One year ago 1,700,000 were serving overseas.  Today, this figure has been more than
doubled to 3,800,000 on duty overseas.  By next July first that number overseas will rise to
over 5,000,000 men and women.

That this is truly a World War was demonstrated to me when arrangements were being made with
our overseas broadcasting agencies for the time to speak today to our soldiers, and sailors,
and marines and merchant seamen in every part of the world.  In fixing the time for this broadcast,
we took into consideration that at this moment here in the United States, and in the Caribbean
and on the Northeast Coast of South America, it is afternoon.  In Alaska and in Hawaii and
the mid-Pacific, it is still morning.  In Iceland, in Great Britain, in North Africa, in Italy
and the Middle East, it is now evening.

In the Southwest Pacific, in Australia, in China and Burma and India, it is already Christmas
Day.  So we can correctly say that at this moment, in those far eastern parts where Americans
are fighting, today is tomorrow.

But everywhere throughout the world--throughout this war that covers the world--there is a
special spirit that has warmed our hearts since our earliest childhood--a spirit that brings
us close to our homes, our families, our friends and neighbors--the Christmas spirit of "peace
on earth, good will toward men."  It is an unquenchable spirit.

During the past years of international gangsterism and brutal aggression in Europe and in Asia,
our Christmas celebrations have been darkened with apprehension for the future.  We have said,
"Merry Christmas--a Happy New Year," but we have known in our hearts that the clouds which
have hung over our world have prevented us from saying it with full sincerity and conviction.

And even this year, we still have much to face in the way of further suffering, and sacrifice,
and personal tragedy.  Our men, who have been through the fierce battles in the Solomons, and
the Gilberts, and Tunisia and Italy know, from their own experience and knowledge of modern
war, that many bigger and costlier battles are still to be fought.

But--on Christmas Eve this year--I can say to you that at last we may look forward into the
future with real, substantial confidence that, however great the cost, "peace on earth, good
will toward men" can be and will be realized and ensured.  This year I can say that.  Last
year I could not do more than express a hope.  Today I express a certainty--though the cost
may be high and the time may be long.

Within the past year--within the past few weeks--history has been made, and it is far better
history for the whole human race than any that we have known, or even dared to hope for, in
these tragic times through which we pass.

A great beginning was made in the Moscow conference last October by Mr.  Molotov, Mr. Eden
and our own Mr. Hull.  There and then the way was paved for the later meetings.

At Cairo and Teheran we devoted ourselves not only to military matters; we devoted ourselves
also to consideration of the future-- to plans for the kind of world which alone can justify
all the sacrifices of this war.

Of course, as you all know, Mr. Churchill and I have happily met many times before, and we
know and understand each other very well. Indeed, Mr. Churchill has become known and beloved
by many millions of Americans, and the heartfelt prayers of all of us have been with this great
citizen of the world in his recent serious illness.

The Cairo and Teheran conferences, however, gave me my first opportunity to meet the Generalissimo,
Chiang Kai-shek, and Marshal Stalin--and to sit down at the table with these unconquerable
men and talk with them face to face.  We had planned to talk to each other across the table
at Cairo and Teheran; but we soon found that we were all on the same side of the table.  We
came to the conferences with faith in each other.  But we needed the personal contact.  And
now we have supplemented faith with definite knowledge.

It was well worth traveling thousands of miles over land and sea to bring about this personal
meeting, and to gain the heartening assurance that we are absolutely agreed with one another
on all the major objectives--and on the military means of obtaining them.

At Cairo, Prime Minister Churchill and I spent four days with the Generalissimo, Chiang Kai-shek.
It was the first time that we had an opportunity to go over the complex situation in the Far
East with him personally.  We were able not only to settle upon definite military strategy,
but also to discuss certain long-range principles which we believe can assure peace in the
Far East for many generations to come.

Those principles are as simple as they are fundamental.  They involve the restoration of stolen
property to its rightful owners, and the recognition of the rights of millions of people in
the Far East to build up their own forms of self-government without molestation.  Essential
to all peace and security in the Pacific and in the rest of the world is the permanent elimination
of the Empire of Japan as a potential force of aggression.  Never again must our soldiers and
sailors and marines--and other soldiers, sailors and marines--be compelled to fight from island
to island as they are fighting so gallantly and so successfully today.

Increasingly powerful forces are now hammering at the Japanese at many points over an enormous
arc which curves down through the Pacific from the Aleutians to the Jungles of Burma.  Our
own Army and Navy, our Air Forces, the Australians and New Zealanders, the Dutch, and the British
land, air and sea forces are all forming a band of steel which is slowly but surely closing
in on Japan.

On the mainland of Asia, under the Generalissimo's leadership, the Chinese ground and air forces
augmented by American air forces are playing a vital part in starting the drive which will
push the invaders into the sea.

Following out the military decisions at Cairo, General Marshall has just flown around the world
and has had conferences with General MacArthur and Admiral Nimitz--conferences which will spell
plenty of bad news for the Japs in the not too far distant future.

