In the autumn of the tenth year I was sent back to my tribe to preach Christianity to them.
With the white man's Bible in my hand, and the white man's tender heart in my breast, I returned
to my own people.

Wearing a foreigner's dress, I walked, a stranger, into my father's village.

Asking my way, for I had not forgotten my native tongue, an old man led me toward the tepee
where my father lay. From my old companion I learned that my father had been sick many moons.
As we drew near the tepee, I heard the chanting of a medicine-man within it. At once I wished
to enter in and drive from my home the sorcerer of the plains, but the old warrior checked
me. "Ho, wait outside until the medicine-man leaves your father," he said. While talking he
scanned me from head to feet. Then he retraced his steps toward the heart of the camping-ground.

My father's dwelling was on the outer limits of the round-faced village. With every heartthrob
I grew more impatient to enter the wigwam.

While I turned the leaves of my Bible with nervous fingers, the medicine-man came forth from
the dwelling and walked hurriedly away. His head and face were closely covered with the loose
robe which draped his entire figure.

He was tall and large. His long strides I have never forgot. They seemed to me then the uncanny
gait of eternal death. Quickly pocketing my Bible, I went into the tepee.

Upon a mat lay my father, with furrowed face and gray hair. His eyes and cheeks were sunken
far into his head. His sallow skin lay thin upon his pinched nose and high cheekbones. Stooping
over him, I took his fevered hand. "How, Ate?" I greeted him. A light flashed from his listless
eyes and his dried lips parted. "My son!" he murmured, in a feeble voice. Then again the wave
of joy and recognition receded. He closed his eyes, and his hand dropped from my open palm
to the ground.

Looking about, I saw an old woman sitting with bowed head. Shaking hands with her, I recognized
my mother. I sat down between my father and mother as I used to do, but I did not feel at home.
The place where my old grandmother used to sit was now unoccupied. With my mother I bowed my
head. Alike our throats were choked and tears were streaming from our eyes; but far apart in
spirit our ideas and faiths separated us. My grief was for the soul unsaved; and I thought
my mother wept to see a brave man's body broken by sickness.

Useless was my attempt to change the faith in the medicine-man to that abstract power named
God. Then one day I became righteously mad with anger that the medicine-man should thus ensnare
my father's soul. And when he came to chant his sacred songs I pointed toward the door and
bade him go! The man's eyes glared upon me for an instant. Slowly gathering his robe about
him, he turned his back upon the sick man and stepped out of our wigwam. "Ha, ha, ha! my son,
I can not live without the medicine-man!" I heard my father cry when the sacred man was gone.

III.

On a bright day, when the winged seeds of the prairie-grass were flying hither and thither,
I walked solemnly toward the centre of the camping-ground. My heart beat hard and irregularly
at my side. Tighter I grasped the sacred book I carried under my arm. Now was the beginning
of life's work.

Though I knew it would be hard, I did not once feel that failure was to be my reward. As I
stepped unevenly on the rolling ground, I thought of the warriors soon to wash off their war-paints
and follow me.

At length I reached the place where the people had assembled to hear me preach. In a large
circle men and women sat upon the dry red grass. Within the ring I stood, with the white man's
Bible in my hand. I tried to tell them of the soft heart of Christ.

In silence the vast circle of bareheaded warriors sat under an afternoon sun. At last, wiping
the wet from my brow, I took my place in the ring. The hush of the assembly filled me with
great hope.

I was turning my thoughts upward to the sky in gratitude, when a stir called me to earth again.

A tall, strong man arose. His loose robe hung in folds over his right shoulder. A pair of snapping
black eyes fastened themselves like the poisonous fangs of a serpent upon me. He was the medicine-man.
A tremor played about my heart and a chill cooled the fire in my veins.

Scornfully he pointed a long forefinger in my direction and asked:

"What loyal son is he who, returning to his father's people, wears a foreigner's dress?" He
paused a moment, and then continued: "The dress of that foreigner of whom a story says he bound
a native of our land, and heaping dry sticks around him, kindled a fire at his feet!" Waving
his hand toward me, he exclaimed, "Here is the traitor to his people!"

I was helpless. Before the eyes of the crowd the cunning magician turned my honest heart into
a vile nest of treachery. Alas! the people frowned as they looked upon me.

"Listen!" he went on. "Which one of you who have eyed the young man can see through his bosom
and warn the people of the nest of young snakes hatching there? Whose ear was so acute that
he caught the hissing of snakes whenever the young man opened his mouth? This one has not only
proven false to you, but even to the Great Spirit who made him. He is a fool! Why do you sit
here giving ear to a foolish man who could not defend his people because he fears to kill,
who could not bring venison to renew the life of his sick father? With his prayers, let him
drive away the enemy! With his soft heart, let him keep off starvation! We shall go elsewhere
to dwell upon an untainted ground."

With this he disbanded the people. When the sun lowered in the west and the winds were quiet,
the village of cone-shaped tepees was gone. The medicine-man had won the hearts of the people.

Only my father's dwelling was left to mark the fighting-ground.

IV.

From a long night at my father's bedside I came out to look upon the morning. The yellow sun
hung equally between the snow-covered land and the cloudless blue sky. The light of the new
day was cold. The strong breath of winter crusted the snow and fitted crystal shells over the
rivers and lakes. As I stood in front of the tepee, thinking of the vast prairies which separated
us from our tribe, and wondering if the high sky likewise separated the soft-hearted Son of
God from us, the icy blast from the North blew through my hair and skull. My neglected hair
had grown long and fell upon my neck.

My father had not risen from his bed since the day the medicine-man led the people away. Though
I read from the Bible and prayed beside him upon my knees, my father would not listen. Yet
I believed my prayers were not unheeded in heaven.

"Ha, ha, ha! my son," my father groaned upon the first snowfall. "My son, our food is gone.
There is no one to bring me meat! My son, your soft heart has unfitted you for everything!"
Then covering his face with the buffalo-robe, he said no more. Now while I stood out in that
cold winter morning, I was starving. For two days I had not seen any food. But my own cold
and hunger did not harass my soul as did the whining cry of the sick old man.

Stepping again into the tepee, I untied my snow-shoes, which were fastened to the tent-poles.

My poor mother, watching by the sick one, and faithfully heaping wood upon the centre fire,
spoke to me:

"My son, do not fail again to bring your father meat, or he will starve to death."

