It was no rough, weather-beaten seaman, who was just placing Meg on a chair, as if he had carried
her upstairs; but some strange, well-clad gentleman, and behind him stood an elderly woman,
who turned sharply round as she heard Kitty's voice.

'Posy!' cried Mrs Blossom.

No one but her own mother could have known again the bright, merry, rosy girl, whom the neighbours
called Posy, in the thin, withered, pallid woman who stood motionless in the middle of the
room.  Even Meg forgot for a moment her fears for Robin.  Dr Christie had only time to catch
him from her failing arms, before she fell down senseless upon the floor at her mother's feet.

'Let me do everything for her,' exclaimed Mrs Blossom, pushing away Dr Christie; 'she's my
Posy, I tell you.  You wouldn't know her again, but I know her.  I'll do everything for her;
she's my girl, my little one; she's the apple of my eye.'

But it was a very long time before Mrs Blossom, with Dr Christie's help, could bring Posy to
life again; and then they lifted her into her poor bed, and Dr Christie left her mother alone
with her, and went back to Meg.  Robin was ailing very little, he said: but the baby?  Yes,
the baby must have died even if little Meg had fetched him at once. Nothing could have saved
it, and it had suffered no pain, he added tenderly.

'I think I must take you two away from this place,' said Dr Christie.

'Oh, no, no,' answered Meg earnestly; 'I must stay till father comes, and I expect him to-day
or to-morrow.  Please, sir, leave me and Robbie here till he comes.'

'Then you must have somebody to take care of you,' said Dr Christie.

'No, please, sir,' answered Meg, in a low and cautious voice, 'mother gave me a secret to keep
that I can't tell to nobody, and I promised her I'd never let nobody come into my room till
father comes home.  I couldn't help you, and Mrs Blossom, and Kitty coming in this time; but
nobody mustn't come in again.'

'My little girl,' said Dr Christie kindly, 'I dare say your mother never thought of her secret
becoming a great trouble to you.  Could you not tell it to me?'

'No,' replied Meg, 'it's a very great secret; and please, when baby's buried like mother, me
and Robbie must go on living here alone till father comes.'

'Poor child!' said Dr Christie, rubbing his eyes, 'did you know baby was quite dead?'

'Yes,' she answered, 'but I didn't ask God to let baby live, because mother said she'd like
to take her with her.  But I did ask Him to make Robin well, and bring back Posy; and now there's
nothing for Him to do but let father come home.  I knew it was all true; it's in the Bible,
and if I'm not one of God's own children, it says, "Them that ask Him." So I asked Him.'

Meg's voice sank, and her head dropped; for now that she was at home again, and Robin was found
to be all right, her spirit failed her.  Dr Christie went out upon the landing, and held a
consultation with Mrs Blossom, in which they agreed that for the present, until Meg was well
enough to take care of herself, she should be nursed in Kitty's attic, with her own door kept
locked, and the key left in her possession.  So Dr Christie carried Meg into the back attic,
and laid her upon Kitty's mattress.  Kitty was cowering down on the hearth, with her face buried
on her knees, and did not look up once through all the noise of Meg's removal; though when
her mother told her what they were doing she made a gesture of assent to it.  Dr Christie went
away; and Mrs Blossom, who wanted to buy many things which were sorely needed in the poor attic,
put her arm fondly round Kitty's neck.

'Posy,' she said, 'you wouldn't think to go and leave little Meg alone if I went out to buy
some things, and took Robin with me?'

'No, I'll stop,' said Kitty, but without lifting her head.  When they were alone together,
Meg raised herself as well as she could on the arm that was not hurt, and looked wistfully
at Kitty's bowed-down head and crouching form.

'Are you really Posy?' she asked.

'I used to be Posy,' answered Kitty, in a mournful voice.

'Didn't I tell you God would let your mother find you?' said Meg; 'it's all come true, every
bit of it.'

'But God hasn't let baby live,' muttered Kitty.

'I never asked Him for that,' she said falteringly; 'I didn't know as baby was near going to
die, and maybe it's a better thing for her to go to mother and God.  Angel Court ain't a nice
place to live in, and she might have growed up bad.  But if people do grow up bad,' added Meg,
in a very tender tone, 'God can make 'em good again if they'd only ask Him.'

As little Meg spoke, and during the silence which followed, strange memories began to stir
in the poor girl's heart, recalled there by some mysterious and Divine power.  Words and scenes,
forgotten since childhood, came back with wonderful freshness and force.  She thought of a
poor, guilty, outcast woman, reviled and despised by all save One, who had compassion even
for her, forgave all her sins, stilled the clamour of her accusers, and said, 'Thy faith hath
saved thee; go in peace.'  She remembered the time when the records of His infinite love had
been repeated by her innocent young lips and pondered in her maiden heart.  O Lamb of God,
that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us.'

'Oh!  Meg!  Meg!' cried Kitty, almost crawling to the corner where she lay, and falling down
beside her on the floor, with her poor pale face still hidden from sight, 'ask God for me to
be made good again.'

Little Meg stretched out her unbruised arm, and laid her hand upon Kitty's bended head.

'You must ask Him for yourself,' she said, after thinking for a minute or two: 'I don't know
as it 'ud do for me to ask God, if you didn't as well.'

'What shall I say, Meg?' asked Kitty.

'If I was you,' said Meg, 'and had grow'd up wicked, and run away from mother, I'd say, "Pray
God, make me a good girl again, and let me be a comfort to mother till she dies; for Jesus
Christ's sake.  Amen."'

There was a dead silence in the back attic, except for the near noise and distant din which
came from the court below, and the great labyrinth of streets around.  Little Meg's eyes shone
lovingly and pityingly upon Kitty, who looked up for an instant, and caught their light.  Then
she dropped her head down upon the mattress, and gave way to a storm of tears and sobs.

'O God,' she cried, 'do have mercy upon me, and make me good again, if it's possible.  Help
me to be a good girl to mother.  God forgive me for Jesus Christ's sake!'

She sobbed out this prayer over and over again, until her voice fell into a low whisper which
even Meg could not hear; and so she lay upon the floor beside the mattress until her mother
came back.  Mrs Blossom's face was pale, but radiant with gladness, and Posy looked at it for
the first time fully.  Then she gave a great cry of mingled joy and sorrow, and running to
her threw her arms round her neck, and laid her face upon her shoulder.

'God'll hear me and have mercy upon me,' she cried.  'I'm going to be your Posy again, mother!'

CHAPTER XIII

Little Meg's Father

The baby was buried the next morning, after Meg had looked upon it for the last time lying
very peacefully and smilingly in its little coffin, and had shed some tears that were full
of sorrow yet had no bitterness upon its dead face.  Mrs Blossom took Robin to follow it to
the grave, leaving Kitty in charge of little Meg.  The front attic door was locked, and the
key was under Meg's pillow, not to be used again until she was well enough to turn it herself
in the lock.  The bag containing the small key of the box, with the unopened letter which had
come for her mother, hung always round her neck, and her hand often clasped it tightly as she
slept.

Meg was lying very still, with her face turned from the light, following in her thoughts the
little coffin that was being carried in turns by Mrs Blossom and another woman whom she knew,
through the noisy streets, when Kitty heard the tread of a man's foot coming up the ladder.
It could be no one else but Dr Christie, she thought; but why then did he stop at the front
attic door, and rattle the latch in trying to open it?  Kitty looked out and saw a seafaring
man, in worn and shabby sailor's clothing, as if he had just come off a long voyage. His face
was brown and weather-beaten; and his eyes, black and bright, were set deep in his head, and
looked as if they were used to take long, keen surveys over the glittering sea.  He turned
sharply round as Kitty opened her door.

'Young woman,' he said, 'do you know aught of my wife, Peggy Fleming, and her children, who
used to live here?  Peggy wrote me word she'd moved into the front attic.'

'It's father,' called little Meg from her mattress on the floor; 'I'm here, father!  Robin
and me's left; but mother's dead, and baby.  Oh! father, father!  You've come home at last!'

Meg's father brushed past Kitty into the room where Meg sat up in bed, her face quivering,
and her poor bruised arms stretched out to welcome him.  He sat down on the mattress and took
her in his own strong arms, while for a minute or two Meg lay still in them, almost like one dead.

'Oh!' she said at last, with a sigh as if her heart had well-nigh broken, 'I've took care of
Robin and the money, and they're safe.  Only baby's dead.  But don't you mind much, father;
it wasn't a nice place for baby to grow up in.'

'Tell me all about it,' said Robert Fleming, looking at Kitty, but still holding his little
daughter in his arms; and Kitty told him all she knew of her lonely life and troubles up in
the solitary attic, which no one had been allowed to enter; and from time to time Meg's father
groaned aloud, and kissed Meg's pale and wrinkled forehead fondly.  But he asked how it was
she never let any of the neighbours, Kitty herself, for instance, stay with her, and help her
sometimes.

'I promised mother,' whispered Meg in his ear, 'never to let nobody come in, for fear they'd
find out the box under the bed, and get into it somehow.  We was afraid for the money, you
know, but it's all safe for your mate, father; and here's the key, and a letter as came for
mother after she was dead.'

'But this letter's from me to Peggy,' said her father, turning it over and over; 'leastways
it was wrote by the chaplain at the hospital, to tell her what she must do.  The money in the
box was mine, Meg, no mate's; and I sent her word to take some of it for herself and the children.'

'Mother thought it belonged to a mate of yours,' said Meg, 'and we was the more afeared of
it being stole.'

'It's my fault,' replied Robert Fleming.  'I told that to mother for fear she'd waste it if
she knew it were mine.  But if I'd only known----'

He could not finish his sentence, but stroked Meg's hair with his large hand, and she felt
some hot tears fall from his eyes upon her forehead.

'Don't cry, father,' she said, lifting her small feeble hand to his face.  'God took care of
us, and baby too, though she's dead.  There's nothink now that He hasn't done.  He's done everythink
I asked Him.'

'Did you ask Him to make me a good father?' said Fleming.

'Why, you're always good to us, father,' answered Meg, in a tone of loving surprise.  'You
never beat us much when you get drunk.  But Robin and me always say, "Pray God, bless father."
I don't quite know what bless means, but it's something good.'

