None of these criticisms affected Margaret. She didn't care what they thought of him. She knew
his heart, and so would they in time.

When Oliver had said all his public good-byes to the rest of the family--the good-byes with
which we have nothing to do had been given and taken in the studio with the curtains drawn--he
joined Margaret at the gate.

They were standing in the road now, under the giant elm, waiting for the stage. She stood close
beside him, touching his arm with her own, mournfully  counting the minutes before the stage
would come, her eyes up the road. All the light and loveliness  of the summers all the joy
and gladness of life, would go out of her heart when the door of the lumbering  vehicle closed
on Oliver.

CHAPTER XVII

LIVE COALS FROM MISS CLENDENNING'S WOOD-FIRE

His good-byes said, one absorbing thought now filled Oliver's mind--to reach Kennedy Square
on the wings of the wind and there to pour into the ears of his mother and Miss Lavinia, and
of anyone else who would listen, the whys and wherefores of his love for Margaret, with such
additional description of her personal charms, qualities, and talents as would bring about,
in the shortest possible time, the most amicable of relations between Kennedy Square and Brookfield
Farm. He was determined that his mother should know her at once. He knew how strong her prejudices
were and what her traditions would cause her to think of a woman who led the life that Margaret
did, but these things did not deter him. A new love now filled his heart--another and a different
kind of love from the one he bore his mother. One that belonged to him; one that was his own
and affected  his life and soul and career. He was prepared  to fight even harder for this
desire of his soul than for his art.

There being no air-ships available for immediate charter, nor big balloons waiting for passengers,
with sand-bags ready for instant unloading, nor any underground pneumatic tubes into which
he could be pumped and with a puff landed on his own doorstep in Kennedy Square, the impatient
lover was obliged to content himself with the back seat of the country stage and a night ride
in the train down the valley.

Then came a delay of a week in New York waiting  for the return of Mr. Slade to the city--"whom
you must by all means see before coming home," so his mother's letter ran. This delay was made
bearable  by Waller, Bowdoin, and old Professor Cummings  who went into spasms of delight over
the boys' sketches. Waller especially predicted a sure future for him if he would have the
grit to throw overboard every other thing he was doing and "stick it out and starve it out"
until he pulled through and became famous.

Mr. Slade, while welcoming him with both hands, was not so cheering. The financial and political
situations were no better, he said. They had really  become more alarming every day. The repudiation
of Northern accounts by Southern merchants had ceased--at least some of Morton, Slade & Co.'s
customers  had redeemed their obligations and had forwarded  them their overdue remittances,
tiding them over for a time--but no one could say what was in store for any firm whose business
lay largely in the Southern States. He would, however, make his word good. Oliver's situation
was still open, and he could again occupy his desk as soon as he returned from Kennedy Square.
The length of his service depended entirely on whether the country would go to war or whether
its difficulties could be satisfactorily settled in the next Congress.

But none of these things--none of the more depressing  ones--dulled for an instant the purpose
or chilled the enthusiasm of our young lover. Wars, pestilence, financial panics and even social
tidal- waves might overwhelm the land and yet not one drop of the topmost edge of the flood
could wet the tips of his high-stepping toes: Margaret was his; he trod an enchanted realm.

An enthusiasm of equal intensity, but of quite a different kind, had taken possession of the
Horn mansion as the hour of Oliver's arrival approached, as anyone would have noticed who happened
to be inside its hospitable walls. Something out of the common was about to happen. There was
an unusual restlessness in Malachi totally at variance with his grave and dignified demeanor.
His perturbation was so great that he even forgot the time-honored custom  of wheeling his
master's chair into position and the equally time-honored salutation of "yo' chair's all ready,
Marse Richard." It was noticed, too, that he could not keep out of the hall. Richard had to
speak to him twice and Mrs. Horn had lifted her head in astonishment when that hitherto attentive
darky handed her Richard's spectacles instead of her own. Or he would start to enter the dining-room,
his hands laden with plates, or the library, his arms filled with logs to replenish the fire,
and then stop suddenly and listen with one foot raised, standing like an old dog locating a
partridge. So nervous did he become as the twilight deepened, and he began to set the table
for supper, that he dropped a cup, smashing it into atoms, a thing that had not happened  to
him before in twenty years--one of the blue and gilt--priceless heirlooms in the family, and
only used when a distinguished guest was expected.  At another time he would have dropped the
whole tray with everything upon it, had not Aunt Hannah saved it in time. How she came to be
in the pantry with her two eyes on the front door, when her place was in the kitchen with both
of them on the pots and kettles, no one could tell. Everything seemed to be at sixes and sevens
in the old house that night.

And the other members of the household inside the drawing-room seemed just as restless. Richard,
who had raked the coals of his forge, closed the green door of his workshop, and had dressed
himself an hour earlier than usual, much to Malachi's delight, became so restless that he got
up from his easy-chair half a dozen times and roamed aimlessly about the room, stopping to
pick up a book, reading a line and laying it down again. Mrs. horn dropped so many stitches
that she gave up in despair, and said she  believed she would not knit.

Malachi heard him first.

"Dat's him--dat's Marse Ollie," he cried. "I know dat knock. Here he is, Mistis. Here he is!"
He sprang forward, threw wide the door and had him by the hand before the others could reach him.

"Fo' Gawd, Marse Ollie, ain't ol' Malachi glad ter git his han's on yer once mo'!"

It was unseemly and absurd how the old man behaved!

And the others were not far behind.

"My boy," exclaimed Mrs. Horn, as she held him close to her breast. There are few words spoken
in times like this.

Richard waited behind her until that imperceptible moment of silence had passed--the moment
a mother gets her arms around the son she loves. Then when the sigh of restful relief that
always follows had spent itself, and she had kissed him with his cheek held fast to hers, Oliver
loosened his hold and threw his arms about his father's neck, patting him between  his shoulder-blades
as he kissed him.

"Dear old dad! Oh, but it's good to get home! And Aunt Hannah, you there?" and he extended
his hand while his other arm was still around his father's neck.

"Yas, Marse Oilie, dat's me; dat's ol' Hannah," and she stepped closer and grasped his outstretched
hand, smoothing it as she spoke. "Lord, Marse Ollie, but ain't you filled out? You is de probable
son, sho', honey, come home to yo' people."

But Oliver was not through with Malachi. He must take both of his hands this time and look
into his eyes. It was all he could do to keep from hugging  him. It would not have been the
first time.

"Been well, Mallie?"

Of course he had been; he saw it in his face. It was only to say something to which the old
darky could reply to--to keep in touch with him--to know that he was speaking to this same
old Malachi whom he had so dearly loved.

"Middlin' po'ly, yas--middlin' po'ly, suh."

Malachi had not the slightest idea what he was talking about. He had not been sick a minute
since Oliver left. His heart was too near bursting with pride at his appearance and joy over
his return for his mind to work intelligently.

"Dem Yankees ain't sp'iled ye; no, dey ain't. Gor-a-mighty, ain't Malachi glad." Tears were
standing in his eyes now. There was no one but Richard he loved better than Oliver.

No fatted calf was spitted and roasted this night on Aunt Hannah's swinging crane for this
"probable  son," but there was corn-pone in plenty and a chafing dish of terrapin--Malachi
would not let Aunt Hannah touch it; he knew just how much Madeira  to put in; Hannah always
"drowned" it, he would say. And there was sally-lunn and Maryland biscuit; here, at last, Aunt
Hannah was supreme-- her elbows told the story. And last of all there was a great dish of escalloped
oysters cooked in fossil scallop shells thousands of years old, that Malachi had himself dug
out of the marl-banks at Yorktown when he was a boy, and which had been used in the Horn family
almost as many times as they were years old. Oh, for a revival of this extinct conchological
comfort! But no! It is just as well not to recall even the memories of this toothsome dish.
There are no more fossils, neither at Yorktown nor anywhere else, and no substitute in china,
tin, or copper will be of the slightest use in giving their flavor.

Supper served and over, with Oliver jumping up half a dozen times to kiss his mother and plumping
himself down again to begin on another relay of pone or terrapin or oysters, much to Malachi's
delight ("He do eat," he reported to Aunt Hannah. "I tell ye. He's bearin' very heavy on dem
scallops. Dat's de third shell.")--the doors were opened with a flourish, and the three, preceded
by Malachi, entered the drawing-room in time to welcome the neighbors.

Nathan, who was already inside sitting by the fire, his long, thin legs stretched out, his
bunchy white hair, parted in the middle, falling to his collar's edge, sprang up and shook
Oliver's hand heartily. He had charged Malachi, when he admitted him, to keep his presence
secret. He wanted them to have Oliver all to themselves.

Miss Clendenning entered a moment later with both hands held out. She would not stop in the
hall to unwind her nubia or take off her little fur boots, but motioned Oliver to her knees
after she had kissed him joyously on both cheeks, and held out those two absurd little feet
for his ministrations, while Mrs. Horn removed her nubia and cloak.

The rat-a-tat at the door was now constant. Judge Bowman and old Dr. Wallace and four or five
of the young men, with the young girls, entered, all with expressions of delight at Oliver's
return home, and later, with the air of a Lord High Mayor, Colonel John Clayton, of Pongateague,
with Sue on his arm. Clayton was always a picture when he entered a room. He stood six feet
and an inch, his gray hair brushed straight back, his goatee curling like a fish-hook at its
end. "Handsome Jack Clayton" was still handsome  at sixty.

After the Colonel had grasped Oliver's hand in his warmest manner, Sue laid all of her ten
fingers in his. It was as good as a play to watch the little witch's face as she stood for
a moment and looked Oliver over. She had not written to him for months. She had had half a
dozen beaus since his departure, but she claimed him all the same as part of her spoils. His
slight mustache seemed to amuse her immensely.

"Are you glad to see me, Ollie?" she asked, looking  archly at him from under her lashes.

"Why, Sue!"

Of course he was glad--for a minute--not much longer. How young she is, he thought, how provincial.
As she rattled on he noticed the mass of ringlets about her face and the way her head was set
on her shoulders. Her neck, he saw, was much shorter than Margaret's, and a little out of drawing.
Nor was there anything of that fearless look or toss of the head like a surprised deer, which
made Margaret  so distinguished. Oliver had arrived at that stage in his affection when he
compared all women to one.

All this time Sue was reading his mind. Trust a young girl for that when she is searching a
former lover's eyes for what lies behind them. She was evidently  nettled at what she found
and had begun by saying "she supposed the Yankee girls had quite captured his heart," when
the Colonel interrupted her by asking Oliver whether the Northern men really thought they could
coerce the South into giving  up their most treasured possessions.

He had been nursing his wrath all day over a fresh attack made on the South by some Northern
paper, and Oliver was just the person to vent it upon--not that he did not love the lad, but
because he was fresh from the despised district.

"I don't think they want to, sir. They are opposed  to slavery and so are a good many of us.
You have a wrong idea of the life at the North, Colonel. You have never been North, I believe?"

"No, my dear Oliver, and I never intend to. If ever I go it will be with a musket. They have
had it all their own way lately with their Harriet Stowes, William Lloyd Garrisons, and John
Browns; it is our turn now."

"Who do you want to run through the body, Clayton?" asked Richard, joining the group and laying
his hands affectionately on the Colonel's shoulders.

"Anybody and everybody, Richard, who says we are not free people to do as we please."

"And is anybody really saying so?"

"Yes; you see it every day in every Northern editorial --another to-day--a most villainous
attack which you must read. These Puritans have been at it for years. This psalm-singing crew
have always hated us. Now, while they are preaching meekness and lowliness and the rights of
our fellow-men--black ones they mean--they are getting ready to wad their guns with their hymn-books.
It's all a piece of their infernal hypocrisy!"

"But why should they hate us, Clayton?" asked Richard in a half-humorous tone. He had no spirit
of contention in him to-night, not with Oliver beside him.

"Because we Cavaliers are made of different stuff; that's why! All this talk about slavery
is nonsense. These Nutmeg fellows approved of slavery as long as they could make a dollar out
of the traffic, and then, as soon as they found out that they had given us a commercial club
with which to beat out their brains, and that we were really dominating the nation,  they raised
this hue and cry about the downtrodden  negro and American freedom and the Stars and Stripes
and a lot of such tomfoolery. Do you know any gentleman who beats his negroes? Do you beat
Malachi? Do I beat my Sam, whom I have brought up from a boy and who would lay down his life
any day for me? I tell you, Richard, it is nothing  but a fight for financial and political
mastery. They're afraid of us; they've been so for years. They cried 'Wolf' when the fugitive
slave law was passed and they've kept it up ever since."

"No, I don't believe it," exclaimed Richard, with a positive tone in his voice "and neither
do you, Clayton. It's largely a question of sentiment. They don't believe one man should hold
another in bondage."

"That's where you are wrong. They don't care a fippenny bit about the negro. If they ever succeed
in their infernal purpose and abolish slavery, and set the negro adrift, mark my words, they
won't live with him, and they won't let him come North and work alongside of their own people.
They'll throw him back on us after they have made a beggar and a criminal of him. Only a Southerner
understands  the negro, and only a Southerner can care for him. See what we have done for them!
Every slave that landed on our shores we have changed from a savage into a man. They forget this."

Judge Bowman joined in the discussion--so did Dr. Wallace. The Judge, in his usual ponderous
way, laid down the law, both State and National-- the Doctor, who always took the opposite
side in any argument, asking him rather pointed questions as to the rights of the Government
to control the several  States as a unit.

Richard held his peace. He felt that this was not the night of all others to discuss politics,
and he was at a loss to understand the Colonel's want of  selfrestraint. He could not agree
with men like Clayton.  He felt that the utterance of such inflammatory  speeches only added
fuel to the smouldering flame. If the ugly jets of threatening smoke that were creeping out
everywhere because of the friction  between the two sections were in danger of bursting into
flame, the first duty of a patriot,  according to his creed, was to stand by with pails of
water, not with kegs of gunpowder. So, while Clayton's  outspoken tirade still filled the room,
he with his usual tact did all he could to soften the effect of his words. Then again, he did
not want Oliver's feelings hurt.

Malachi's entrance with his tray, just as the subject  was getting beyond control, put a stop
to the discussion. The learned group of disputants with the other guests quickly separated
into little coteries, the older men taking their seats about an opened card-table, on which
Malachi had previously deposited  several thin glasses and a pair of decanters, the ladies
sitting together, and the younger people laughing away in a corner, where Oliver joined them.

Richard and Nathan, now that the danger was averted (they were both natural born peace-makers),
stepped across the room to assist in entertaining Miss Clendenning. The little lady had not
moved from the chair in which she sat when Oliver relieved her of her fur boots. She rarely
did move when once she had chosen a place for herself in a drawing-room. She was the kind of
woman who could sit in one place and still be surrounded--by half-moons of adorers if she sat
against the wall, by full moons if she sat in the open. She had learned the art when a girl.

"If Clayton would go among these people, my dear Lavinia," said Richard, in a deprecating tone,
drawing up a chair and seating himself, beside her, "he would find them very different from
what he thinks. Some of the most delightful men I have ever met have come from the States north
of us. You know that to be so."

"That depends, Richard, on how far North you go," Miss Clendenning answered, spreading her
fan as she spoke, looking in between the sticks as if searching for specimens. "In Philadelphia
I find some very delightful houses, quite like our own. In New York--well, I rarely go to New
York. The journey is a tiresome one and the hotels abominable. They are too busy there to be
comfortable, and I do not like noisy, restless people. They give me a headache."

"Oliver has met some charming people, he tells me," said Richard. "Mr. Slade took him into
his own home and treated him quite like a son."

"Of course he did; why not?" Miss Clendenning was erect now, her eyes snapping with roguish
indignation. "Anybody would be glad to take Oliver into their home, especially when they have
two  marriageable daughters. Oliver's bow as he enters a room is a passport to any society
in the world, my dear Richard. My Lord Chesterfield Clayton has no better manners nor any sweeter
smile than our own Lorenzo. Watch Oliver now as he talks to those girls."

Richard had been watching him; he had hardly taken his eyes from him. Every time he looked
at him his heart swelled the more with pride.

"And you think, Lavinia, Mr. Slade invited him because of his manners?" He was sure of it.
He only wanted her to confirm it.

"Of course. What else?" and she cut her eye at him knowingly. "How many of the other clerks
did he invite? Not one. I wanted to find out and I made Ollie write me. They are queer people,
these Northerners. They affect to despise good blood and good breeding and good manners. That's
all fol-de-rol--they love it. They are eternally talking of equality--equality; one man as
GOOD as another. When they say that one man is as GOOD as another, Richard, they mean that
THEY are as good, never the other poor fellow."

"Now, my dear Lavinia, stop a moment," laughed the inventor in protest. "You do not mean to
say there are really no gentlemen north of us?"

"Plenty of gentlemen, Richard, but few thoroughbreds.  There is a distinction, you know."

"Which do you value most?"

"Oh, the thoroughbred. A gentleman might some time offend you by telling you the truth about
yourself or your friends. The thoroughbred, never," and she lifted her hands in mock horror.

"And he could be a rogue and yet his manners would save him?"

"Quite true, dear Richard, quite true. The most charming man I ever met except your dear self"--
and she smiled graciously and lowered her voice as if what she was about to tell was in the
strictest  confidence--"was a shrivelled-up old prince who once called on my father and myself
in Vienna. He was as ugly as a crab, and walked with a limp. There had been some words over
a card-table, he told me, and the other man fired first. I was a young girl then, but I have
never forgotten him to this day. Indeed, my dear Nathan," and she turned to the old musician
and laid her wee hand confidingly on his knee, "but for the fact that the princess was a most
estimable woman and still alive, I might have been --well, I really forget what I might have
been, for I do not remember his name, but it was something most fascinating in five or six
syllables. Now all that man ever did to make that unaccountable impression  upon me was just
to pick up my handkerchief.  Oh, Nathan, it really gives me a little quiver to this day! I
never watch Oliver bow but I think of my prince. Now I have never found that kind of quality,
grace, bearing, presence--whatever you may choose to call it--in the Puritan. He has not time
to learn it. He despises such subtle courtesies. They smack of the cavalier and the court to
him. He is content with a nod of the head and a hurried handshake. So are his neighbors. They
would grow suspicious of each other's honesty if they did more. Tut, tut, my dear Richard!
My prince's grooms greeted each other in that way."

Richard and Nathan laughed heartily. "And you only find the manners of the ante-chamber and
the throne-room South?" asked the inventor.

"Um--not always. It used to be so in my day and yours, but we are retrograding. It is unpardonable
in our case because we have known better. But up there" (and she pointed in the direction of
the North Star) "they never did know better; that's some excuse for them."

"Ah, you incorrigible woman, you must not talk so. You have not seen them all. Many of the
men who do me the honor to come to my workroom are most delightful persons. Only last week
there came one of the most interesting scientists that I have met for--"

"Of course, of course, I have not a doubt of it, my dear Richard, but I am talking of men,
my friend, not dried mummies."

Again Richard laughed. One of his greatest pleasures was to draw Miss Clendenning out on topics
of this class. He knew she did not believe one- half that she said. It was the way she parried
his thrusts that delighted him.

"Well, then, take Mr. Winthrop Pierce Lawrence. No more charming gentleman ever entered my
house. You were in London at the time or you would certainly  have dined with him here. Mr.
Lawrence is not only distinguished as a statesman and a brilliant scholar, but his manners
are perfect."

Miss Clendenning turned her head and looked at Richard under her eyelashes. "Where did you
say he was from?"

"Boston."

"Boston?" A rippling, gurgling laugh floated through the room.

"Yes, Boston. Why do you laugh?"

"Bostonians, my dear Richard, have habits and customs, never manners. It is impossible that
they should. They are seldom underbred, mind you, they are always overbred, and, strange to
say, without  the slightest sense of humor, for they are all brought up on serious isms and
solemn fads. The excitement we have gone through over this outrageous  book of this Mrs. Stowe's
and all this woman movement is but a part of their training. How is it possible for people
who believe in such dreadful persons  as this Miss Susan Anthony and that Miss-- something-or-other--I
forget her name--to know what the word 'home' really means and what graces should adorn it?
They could never understand my ugly prince, and he?--well, he would be too polite to tell them
what he thought of them. No, my dear Richard, they don't know; they never will know, and they
never will be any better."

Oliver had crossed the room and had reached her chair.

"Who will never be any better, you dear Midget?"  he cried.

"You, you dear boy, because you could not. Come and sit by me where I can get my hand on you.
If I had my way you would never be out of reach of my five fingers."

Oliver brought up a stool and sat at her feet.

"Your Aunt Lavinia, Ollie," said Richard, rising to his feet (this relationship was of the
same character  as that of Uncle Nathan Gill), "seems to think our manners are retrograding."

"Not yours?" protested Oliver, with a laugh, as he turned quickly toward Miss Clendenning.

"No, you sweetheart, nor yours," answered Miss Clendenning, with a sudden burst of affection.
"Come, now, you have lived nearly two years among these dreadful Yankees--what do you think
of them?"

"What could I think of people who have been so kind to me? Fred Stone has been like a brother,
and so has everybody else."

Mrs. Horn had joined the group and sat listening.

"But their manners, my son," she asked. "Do you see no difference between them and--and--and
your father's, for instance?" and she motioned toward Richard who was now moving across the
room to speak to other guests.

"Dad is himself and you are yourself and I am myself," replied Oliver with some positiveness.
"When people are kind I never stop to think how they do it."

"Lovely," Miss Clendenning whispered to Nathan.  "Spoken like a thoroughbred. Yes, he is BETTER
than my ugly prince. He would always have remembered how they did it."

"And you see no difference either in the ladies?" continued Mrs. Horn, with increasing interest
in her tones. "Are the young girls as sweet and engaging?"  She had seen Margaret's name rather
often in his letters and wondered what impression she had made upon him. Oliver's eyes flashed
and the color mounted to his cheeks. Miss Clendenning saw it and bent forward a little closer
to get his answer.

"Well, you see, mother, I do not know a great many, I am so shut up. Miss Grant, whom I wrote
you about, is--well, you must see her. She is not the kind of girl that you can describe very
well-- she really is not the kind of girl that you can describe at all. We have been together
all summer, and I stopped at her father's house for a few days when I came down from the mountains.
They live in the most beautiful valley you ever saw."

Miss Clendenning was watching him closely. She caught a look that his mother had missed.

"Is she pretty, Ollie?" asked Miss Lavinia.

"She is better than pretty. You would not say the Milo was pretty, would you? There is too
much in her for prettiness."

"And are the others like her?" The little lady was only feeling about, trying to put her finger
on the pulse of his heart.

"No; there is nobody like her. Nobody I have ever met."

Miss Clendenning was sure now.

Malachi's second entrance--this time with the great china bowl held above his head--again interrupted
the general talk.

Since the memory of man no such apple-toddy had ever been brewed!

Even Colonel Clayton, when he tasted it, looked over his glass and nodded approvingly at its
creator --a recognition of genius which that happy darky acknowledged by a slight bend of his
back, anything else being out of the question by reason of the size of the bowl he was carrying
and the presence of his master and of his master's guests.

This deposited on a side table, another bowl filled with Olio--a most surprising and never-to-be-forgotten
salad of chicken and celery and any number of other toothsome things--was placed beside it,
together  with a plate of moonshines and one of Maryland  biscuits.

Then came some music, in which Oliver sang and Miss Clendenning played his accompaniments--the
old plantation melodies, not the new songs--and next the "wrappings up" in the hall, the host
and hostess  and the whole party moving out of the drawing- room in a body. Here Nathan, with
great gallantry, insisted on getting down on his stiff marrow-bones to put on Miss Clendenning's
boots, while the young men and Oliver tied on the girls' hoods, amid "good- byes" and "so glads"
that he could come home if only for a day, and that he had not forgotten them, Oliver's last
words being whispered in Miss Clendenning's  ear informing her that he would come over in the
morning and see her about a matter of the greatest importance. And so the door was shut on
the last guest.

When the hall was empty Oliver kissed his father good-night, and, slipping his arm around his
mother's  waist, as he had always done when a boy, the two went slowly upstairs to his little
room. He could not wait a minute longer. He must unburden his heart about Margaret. This was
what he had come for. If his mother had only seen her it would be so much easier, be said to
himself as he pushed open his bedroom door.

"You are greatly improved, my son," she said, with a tone of pride in her voice. "I see the
change already." She had lighted the candle and the two were seated on the bed, his arm still
around her.

"How, mother?"

"Oh, in everything. The boy is gone out of you. You are more reposeful; more self-reliant.
I like your modesty too." She could tell him of his faults, she could also tell him of his virtues.

"And the summer has done you good," she continued.  "I felt sure it would. Mr. Slade has been
a steadfast friend of yours from the beginning. Tell me now about your new friends. This Miss
Grant --is she not the same girl you wrote me about, some mouths ago--the one who drew with
you at the art school? Do you like her people?" This thought was uppermost in her mind--had
been in fact ever since she first saw Margaret's name in his letters.

"Her mother is lovely and she has got a brother --a Dartmouth man--who is a fine fellow. I
liked him from the first moment I saw him;" Oliver answered  simply, wondering how he would begin.

"Is her father living?"

"Yes."

"What kind of a man is he?"

"Well--of course, he is not like our people. He is a--well--he always says just what be thinks,
you know. But he is a man of character and position." He was speaking for Margaret now. "They
have more family portraits than we have." This was said in a tone that was meant to carry weight.

"And people of education?"

"Oh, I should certainly say so. It is nothing but books all over the house. Really, he has
more books than Dad." This statement was to strengthen the one regarding the family ancestors--both
telling  arguments about Kennedy Square.

"And this girl--is she a lady?"

The question somehow put to flight all his mental manoeuvres. "She is more than a lady, mother.
She is the dearest--" He stopped, hesitated for an instant, and slipping his arm around his
mother's neck drew her close to him. Then, in a torrent of words--his cheeks against hers--the
whole story came out. He was a boy again now; that quality in him that would last all his life.
She listened with her eyes on the floor, her heart torn with varying. emotions. She was disturbed,
but not alarmed. One phase of the situation stood out clearly in her practical mind--his poverty
and the impossibility of any immediate marriage. Before that obstacle could be removed she
felt sure his natural vacillation  regarding women would save him. He would forget her as he
had Sue.

"And you say her brother works in the fields and that her father and mother permitted this
girl to leave home and sit night after night with you young men with no other protection than
that of a common Irishwoman?" There was a tone of censure now in her voice that roused a slight
antagonism in Oliver.

"Why not? What could harm her? There was no other place for her to go where she could learn
anything."

Mrs. Horn kept still for a moment, looking on the floor. Oliver sat watching her face.

"And your family, my son," she protested with a certain patient disapproval in her tones. "Do
they count for nothing? I, of course, would love anybody you would make your wife, but you
have others about you. No man has a right to marry beneath  him. Do not be in a hurry over
this matter. Come home for your wife when you are ready to marry. Give yourself time to compare
this girl, who seems to have fascinated you, with--Sue, for  instance, or any of the others
you have been brought up with."

Oliver shrugged his shoulders at the mention of Sue's name. He had compared her.

"You would not talk this way, dearie; if you could see her," he replied in a hopeless way as
if the  futility of making his mother understand was now  becoming apparent to him. "She is
different from anyone you ever met--she is so strong, so fine-- such a woman in all that the
word means. Not something  you fondle and make love to, remember, but a woman more like a Madonna
that you worship, or a Greek goddess that you might fear. As to the family part of it, I am
getting tired of it all, mother. What good is Grandfather Horn or anybody else to me? I have
got to dig my way out just as they did. Just as dear old Dad is doing. If he succeeds in his
work who will help him but himself? There have been times when I used to love to remember him
sitting by his reading-lamp or with his violin tucked under his chin, and I was proud to think
he was my father. Do you know what sets my blood on fire now? It is when I think of him standing
over his forge and blowing his bellows, his hands black with coal. I understand many things,
dearie, that I knew nothing about when I left home. You used to tell me yourself that everybody
had to work, and you sent me away to do it. I looked upon it then as a degradation. I see it
differently now. I have worked with all my might all summer, and I have brought back a whole
lot of sketches that the boys like. Now I am going to work again with Mr. Slade. I do not like
his work, and I do love mine, but I am going to stick to his all the same. I have got something
to work for now," and his face brightened. "I am going to win!"

She did not interrupt him. It was better he should unburden his heart. She was satisfied with
his record; if he went wrong she only was to blame. But he was not going wrong; nor was there
anything  to worry about--not even his art--not so long as he kept his place with Mr. Slade
and only took it up as a relaxation from more weighty cares. It was only the girl that caused
her a moment's thought.

She saw too, through all his outburst, a certain  independence and a fearlessness and a certain
fixedness  of purpose that sent an exultant thrill through her even when her heart was burdened
with the thought of this new danger that threatened him. She had sent him away for the fault
of instability, and he had overcome it. Should she not now hold fast, as she had before, and
save him the second time from this girl who was beneath him in station and who would drag him
down to her level, and so perhaps  ruin him?

"We will not talk any more about it to-night, my son," she said, in tender tones, leaning forward
and kissing him on the cheek--it was through his affections  that she controlled him. "You
should be tired out with your day's journey and ought to rest. Take my advice--do not ask her
to be your wife yet. Think about it a little and see some other women before you make up your
mind."

A delicious tremor passed through Oliver. He HAD asked her, and she HAD promised! He remembered
just the very day, the hour, the minute. That was the bliss of it all! But this he did not
tell his mother. He would not hurt her any further now. Some other day he would tell her; when
she could see Madge and judge for herself. No, not to-night, and so with the secret untold
he kissed her and led her to her room.

And yet strange to say it was the one only thing in all his life that he had kept from her.

Ah! these mothers! who make lovers of their only sons, dominating their lives! How bitter must
be the hours when they realize that another's arms are opening for them!

And these boys--what misgivings come; what doubts. How the old walls, impregnable from childhood,
begin to crumble! How little now the dear mother knows--she so wise but a few moons since.
How this new love steps in front of the old love and claims every part of the boy as its very own.

Faithful to her promise, Miss Clendenning waited the next morning for Oliver in her little
boudoir that opened out of the library. A bright fire blazed and crackled, sending its beams
dancing over the room and lighting up the red curtains that hung behind her writing-desk, its
top covered with opened letters--her morning's mail: many bore foreign postmarks, and not a
few were emblazoned with rampant  crests sunk in little dabs of colored wax. She wore a morning
gown of soft white flannel belted in at the waist. Covering her head and wound loosely about
her throat was a fluff of transparent silk, half- concealing the two nests of little gray and
brown knots impaled on hair-pins. These were the chrysalides  of those gay butterfly side-curls
which framed her sweet face at night and to which she never gave wing until after luncheon,
no matter who called. The silk scarf that covered them this morning was in recognition of Oliver's
sex.

She had finished her breakfast and was leaning forward  in her rocking-chair, her elbows on
her knees, her tiny feet resting on the fender. She was watching  the fire-fairies at work
building up their wonderful  palaces of molten gold studded with opals and rubies. The little
lady must have been in deep thought, for she did not know Oliver had entered until she felt
his arm on her shoulder.

"Ah, you dear fellow. No, not there; sit right here on this cricket by my side. Stop, do not
say a word. I have been studying it all out in these coals. I know all about it--it is about
the mountain girl, this--what do you call her?"

"Miss Grant."

"Nonsense! What do YOU call her?"

"Madge."

"Ah, that's something like it. And you love her?"

"Yes." (Pianissimo.)

"And she loves you?"

"YES." (Forte.)

"And you have told her so?"

"YES!" (Fortissimo.)

"Whew!" Miss Clendenning caught her breath and gave a little gasp. "Well, upon my word! You
don't seem to have lost any time, my young Romeo. What does her father say?"

"He doesn't know anything about it."

"Does anybody except you two babes in the wood?"

"Yes, her mother."

"And yours? You told her last night. I knew you would."

"Not everything; but she is all upset."

"Of course she is. So am I. Now tell me--is she a LADY?"

"She is the dearest, sweetest girl you--"

"Come now, come now, answer me. They are all the dearest and sweetest things in the world.
What I want to know is, is she a lady?"

"Yes."

"True now, Ollie--honest?"

"Yes, in every sense of the word. A woman you would love and be proud of the moment you saw her."

Miss Clendenning took his face in her hands and looked down into his eyes. "I believe you.
Now what do you want me to do?"

"I want her to come down here so everybody can see her. If I had a sister she could invite
her, and it would be all right, and maybe then her mother would let her come."

"And you want me to play the sister and have her come here?"

Oliver's fingers closed tight over Miss Clendenning's  hand. "Oh, Midget, if you only would,
that would fix everything. Mother would understand then why I love her, and Madge could go
back and tell her people about us. Her father is very bitter against everybody at the South.
They would feel differently if Madge could stay a week with us."

"Why won't her father bring her?"

"He never leaves home. He would not even take her to the mountains, fifteen miles away. She
could never paint as she does if she had relied upon him. Mother and Mr. Grant are both alike
in their hatred of art as a fitting profession for anybody, and I tell you that they are both
wrong."

Miss Clendenning looked up in surprise. She had never seen the boy take a stand of this kind
against one of his mother's opinions. Oliver saw the expression  on the little lady's face
and kept on, his cheeks flushed and a set look about his eyes.

"Yes, wrong. I have never believed mother could be wrong in anything before, and when she wanted
me to give up painting I did so because I thought she knew best. But I know she's not right
about Madge, and if she is wrong about her, how do I know she was not wrong about my working
with Mr. Crocker?"

Margaret's words that day in the bark slant were now ringing in his ears. He had never forgotten
them--"Your mother cannot coddle you up forever."

Miss Clendenning held her peace. She was not astonished at the revolt in the boy's mind. She
had seen for months past in his letters that Oliver's  individuality was asserting itself.
It was the new girl whom he was defending--the woman he loved. This had given him strength.
She knew something of what he felt, and she knew what blind obedience had done for her. With
a half-smothered sigh, she reached over Oliver's head, dipped a quill pen in her inkstand,
and at Oliver's dictation, wrote Margaret's address.

"I will invite her at once," she said.

Long after Oliver had gone Miss Clendenning sat looking into the fire. The palaces of rose
and amber that the busy fingers of the fire fairies had built up in the white heat of their
enthusiasm were in ruins. The light had gone out. Only gray ashes remained, with here and there
a dead cinder.

Miss Clendenning rose from her chair, stood a moment in deep thought, and said, aloud:

"If she loves him, she shall have him. There shall be no more desolate firesides if I can help it."

Early the next morning, she mailed by the first post a letter so dainty in form and so delicate
in color that only a turtle-dove should have carried it to Brookfleld Farm, and have dropped
it into Margaret's  hand. This billet-doux began by inviting Miss Margaret Grant of Brookfield
Farm to pass a week with Miss Lavinia Clendenning, of Kennedy Square, she, Miss Lavinia, desiring
to know the better one who had so charmed and delighted "our dear Oliver,"  and ended with
"Please say to your good mother, that I am twice your age, and will take as much care of you
as if you were my own daughter. I feel assured she will waive all ceremony when she thinks
of how warm a greeting awaits you."

Margaret looked at the post-mark, and then at the little oval of violet wax bearing the crest
of the  Clendennings--granted in the time of Queen Elizabeth for distinguished services to
the Throne--and after she had read it to her mother, and had shown the seal to her father,
who had put on his glasses, scanned it closely, and tossed it back to her with a dry laugh,
and after she had talked it all over with John, who said it was certainly very kind of the
woman, and that Oliver's people were evidently "nobs," but, of course, Madge couldn't go, not
knowing any of them, Margaret took a sheet of plain white paper from her desk, thanked Miss
Clendenning for her kind thought of her, and declined the honor in a firm, round hand. This
she closed with a red wafer, and then, with a little bridling of her head and a determined
look in her face, she laid the letter on the gate-post, ready for the early stage in the morning.

This missive was duly received by Miss Clendenning,  and read at once to Mrs. Horn, who raised
her eyebrows and pursed her lips in deep thought. After some moments she looked over her glasses
at Miss Lavinia and said:

"I must say, Lavinia, I am very greatly astonished. Won't come? She has done perfectly right.
I think all the better of her for it. Really, there may be something in the girl after all.
Let me look at her handwriting again--writes like a woman of some force. Won't come? What do
you think, Lavinia?"

"Merely a question of grandmothers, my dear; she seems to have had one, too," answered the
little old maid, with a quizzical smile in her eye, as she folded the letter and slipped it
in her pocket.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE LAST HOURS OF A CIVILIZATION

Margaret's decision saddened Oliver's last days at home, and he returned to New York with none
of his former buoyancy. Here other troubles began to multiply. Before the autumn was gone,
Morton, Slade & Co., unable longer to make headway against the financial difficulties that
beset them, went to the wall, involving many of their fellow-merchants. Oliver  lost his situation,
in consequence, and was forced to support himself during the long dreary winter by making lithographic
drawings for Bianchi, at prices that barely paid his board. His loneliness in the garret room
became more intense, Fred being much away and the occupants of the other rooms being either
strangers to him or so uncongenial that he would not make their acquaintance.

To his own troubles were added other anxieties. The political outlook had become even more
gloomy than the financial. The roar of Sumter's guns had  reverberated throughout the land,
and men of all minds were holding their breath and listening, with ears to the ground, for
the sound of the next shot. Even Margaret's letters were full of foreboding. "Father is more
bitter against the South than ever," she wrote. "He says if he had ten sons each should shoulder
a musket. We must wait, Ollie dear. I can only talk to mother about you. Father won't listen,
and I never mention your name before him. Not because it is you, Ollie, but because you represent
a class whom he hates. Dear John would listen, but he is still in Boston. Even his fellow-classmen
want to fight, he says. I fear all this will hurt my work, and keep me from painting."

These letters of Margaret's, sad as they were, were his greatest and sometimes his only comfort.
She knew his ups and downs and they must have no secrets from each other. From his mother,
however, he kept all records of his privations during these troublous months. Neither his father
nor his dear mother must deprive themselves for his benefit.

During these dreary days he often longed for Kennedy  Square and for those whom he loved, but
it was not until one warm spring day, when the grass was struggling into life, and the twigs
on the scraggy trees in Union Square were growing pink and green with impatient buds and leaves
that he had his wish. Then a startling telegram summoned him. It read as follows:

"Father ill. Come at once.

"Mother"

Instinctively Oliver felt in his pockets for his purse. There was just money enough to take
him to Kennedy Square and back.

His mother met him at the door.

"It was only a fainting turn, my son," were her first words. "I am sorry I sent for you. Your
father is himself again, so Dr. Wallace says. He has been working too hard lately--sometimes
far into the night. I could have stopped you from coming; but, somehow, I wanted you--" and
she held him close in her arms, and laid her cheek against his. "I get so lonely, my boy, and
feel so helpless sometimes."

The weak and strong were changing places. She felt the man in him now.

Nathan was in the library. He and Malachi had been taking turns at Richard's bedside. Malachi
had not closed his eyes all night. Nathan came out into the hall when he heard Oliver's voice,
and put his hand on his shoulder.

"We had a great scare, Ollie," he said, "but he's all right again, thank God! He's asleep now--better
not wake him." Then he put on his coat and went home.

Malachi shook his head. "Sumpin's de matter wid him, an' dis ain't de las' ob it. Drapped jes'
like a shote when he's hit, Marse Oliver," he said, in a low whisper, as if afraid of disturbing
his master on the floor above. "I was a-layin' out his clo'es an' he called quick like, 'Malachi!
Malachi!' an' when I got dar, he was lyin' on de flo' wid his head on de mat. I ain't nebber
seen Marse Richard do like dat befo'--" The old servant trembled as he spoke. He evidently
did not share Nathan's hopeful views. Neither did Dr. Wallace, although he did not say so to
anyone.

Their fears, however, were not realized. Richard not only revived, but by the end of the week
be was in the drawing-room again, Malachi, in accordance with the time-honored custom, wheeling
out his chair, puffing up the cushions, and, with a wave of the hand and a sweeping bow, saying:

"Yo' ch'ar's all ready, Marse Richard. Hope you'se feelin' fine dis evenin', sah!"

The following day he was in his "li'l' room," Oliver  helping him. It was the lifting of the
heavy plate of the motor that had hurt Richard, so Nathan told him; not the same motor which
Oliver remembered;  another, much larger and built on different lines. The inventor now used
twenty-four cells instead of ten, and the magnets had been wrapped with finer wire.

These days in the shop were delightful to Oliver. His father no longer treated him as an inexperienced
youth, but as his equal. "I hope you will agree with me, my son," he would say; or, "What do
you think of the idea of using a 'cam' here instead of a lever?" or, "I wish you would find
the last issue of the Review,  and tell me what you think of that article of Latrobe's.  He
puts the case very clearly, it seems to me," etc. And Oliver would bend his head in attention
and try to follow his father's lead, wishing all the time that he could really be of use to
the man he revered  beyond all others, and so lighten some of the burdens that were weighing
him down.

And none the less joyful were the hours spent with his mother. All the old-time affection,
the devotion of a lover-son, were lavished upon her. And she was so supremely happy in it all.
Now that Richard had recovered, there was no other cloud on her horizon, not even that of the
dreaded mortgage which owing to some payments made Richard by a company using one of his patents
had been extended and its interest paid for two years in advance in deference to her urgent
request. All anxiety as to the Northern girl had happily passed out of her mind. If Oliver
intended  marrying Miss Grant he would have told her, she knew. Then again, he was so much
stronger and wiser now--so much more thoughtful than he had been--so much more able to keep
his head in matters of this kind.

As his position was different with his father in the "li'l' room" and with his mother in the
stillness of her chamber--for often they talked there together until far into the night--so
were his relations altered with his old friends and neighbors in the drawing- room. While the
young men and girls filled the house as had always been their custom, the older men, as well,
now paid their respects to Richard Horn's son.

"One of our own kind," Judge Bowman said to Richard. "Does you credit, Horn--a son to be proud of."

Even Amos Cobb came to look him over, a courtesy which pleased Richard who greatly admired
the Vermonter,  and who had not hesitated to express his good opinion of him on more than one
occasion before his own and Cobb's friends.

"A man of force, gentlemen," Richard had said, of great kindness of heart and with a wide range
of vision. One who has the clearest ideas of what makes for the good of his country; a man
too, not ashamed of his opinions and with ample courage to defend them. He deserves our unqualified
respect, not our criticism."

When Cobb heard of Richard's outspoken defence of him he at once called on the inventor at
his workshop --a thing he had not done for mouths, and asked to see the motor, and that same
night astonished the circles about the club tables, by remarking, in a tone of voice loud enough
for everybody to hear: "We have all been wrong about Horn. He has got hold of something that
will one day knock steam higher than Gilderoy's kite." A friendship was thus established  between
the two which had become closer every day--the friendship of a clearer understanding;  one
which was unbroken during the rest of their lives.

It was quite natural, therefore, that Amos Cobb should be among Oliver's earliest callers.
He must have been pleased with his inspection, for he took occasion  at the club to say to
Colonel Clayton, in his quick, crisp way:

"Dropped in at Horn's last night. His boy's over from New York. Looks like a different man
since he quit fooling round here a couple of years ago. Clean cut a young fellow as I've seen
for many a day. Got a look out of his eyes like his mother's. Level- headed woman, his mother--no
better anywhere. If all the young bloods South had Oliver Horn's ideas we might pull through
this crisis."

To which my Lord Chesterfield of Kennedy Square merely replied only with a nod of the head
and a drawing together of the eyebrows. He found it difficult  to tolerate the Vermonter in
these days with his continued tirades against "The epidemic of insanity sweeping over the South,"
as Cobb would invariably put it.

The scribe now reaches a night in Oliver's career fraught with such momentous consequences
that he would be glad to leave its story untold:

An unforgettable night indeed, both for those who were assembled there, and for him who is
the chronicler. He would fain lay down his pen to recall again the charm and the sweetness
and the old- time flavor of that drawing-room: the soft lights of the candles; the perfume
of the lilacs coming in through the half-open windows; the merry laugh of the joyous girl running
through the Square to be ushered by Malachi a moment later into the presence of her hostess,
there to make her courtesied  obeisance before she joined a group of young people around one
of the red damask-covered sofas. And then Richard, dear Richard, with his white hair and his
gracious speech, and Miss Clendenning with her manners of foreign courts, and the sweet-voiced
hostess of the mansion moving about among her guests; her guests who were her neighbors and
her friends; whose children were like her own, and whose joys and sorrows were hers--guests,
neighbors,  friends many of whom after this fatal night were to be as enemies never to assemble
again with the old-time harmony and love.

Malachi had brewed the punch; the little squat glasses were set out beside the Canton china
bowl, for it was the night of the weekly musical and an unusually brilliant company had assembled
in honor of Oliver's arrival and of Richard's recovery.

The inventor was to play his own interpretations of Handel's Largo, a favorite selection of
Ole Bull, and one which the inventor and the great virtuoso had played together some years before.

Miss Clendenning had taken her place at the piano, Nathan standing beside her to turn the leaves
of the accompaniment.

Richard had picked up his violin, tucked it under his chin, poised the bow, and that peculiar
hush which always precedes the sounding of the first notes on evenings of this kind had already
fallen upon the room, when there came a loud rap at the front door that startled everyone and
the next instant Colonel Clayton burst in, his cheeks flaming, his hat still on his head.

"Ten thousand Yankees will be here in the morning,  Horn!" be gasped, out of breath with his
run across the Square, holding one hand to his side as he spoke, and waving an open telegram
in the other. "Stop! This is no time for fiddling. They're not going round by water; they're
coming here by train. Read that," and he held out the bit of paper.

The Colonel's sudden entrance and the startling character of the news, had brought every man
to his feet.

Richard laid down his violin, read the telegram quietly, and handed it back.

"Well, suppose they do come, Clayton?"

His voice was so sustained, and his manner so temperate,  that a certain calming reassurance
was felt.

"Suppose they DO come! They'll burn the town, I tell you," shouted the infuriated man, suddenly
remembering his hat and handing it to Malachi. That's what they're coming for. We want no troops
in our streets, and the Government ought to know it. It's an outrage to send armed men here
at this time!"

"You're all wrong, Clayton," answered Richard, without raising his voice. "You have always
been wrong about this matter. There are two sides to this question. Virginia troops occupied
Harper's Ferry yesterday. If the authorities consider that more troops are needed to protect
Washington, that's their affair, not yours nor mine."

"We'll MAKE it our affair. What right has this damnable Government to march their troops through
a free and sovereign State without its permission! Whom do they think this town belongs to,
I want to know, that this Northern scum should foul it. Not a man shall set foot here if I
can help it. I would rather--"

Richard turned to stay the torrent of invectives in which such words as "renegades," "traitors,"
"mud-sills," were heard, but the Colonel, completely unmanned by the rage he was in, and seemingly
unconscious  of the presence of the ladies, waved him aside with his hand, and faced the row
of frightened, expectant faces.

"Gentlemen, when you are through with this tom- foolery, I shall be glad if you will come to
the club; any of you who have got guns had better look them up; they'll be wanted before this
is over. We'll meet these dirty skinflints with cold lead and plenty of it."

Oliver's face flushed at the Colonel's words, and he was about to speak, when his mother laid
her hand on his arm. Visions of the kindly face of Professor Cummings, and the strong well-knit
figure of Fred Stone, John Grant, Hank, Jonathan Gordon, and the others whom he loved came
before his eyes.

Richard raised his hand in protest:

"You are mad, Clayton; you don't know what you are doing. Stop these troops and our streets
will run blood. I beg and beseech you to keep cool. Because South Carolina has lost her head,
that is no reason why we should. This is not our fight! If my State called me to defend her
against foreign invasion, old as I am I would be ready, and so should you. But the Government
is part of ourselves, and should not be looked upon as an enemy. You are wrong, I tell you,
Clayton."

"Wrong or right, they'll have to walk over my dead body if they attempt to cross the streets
of this town. That's my right as a citizen, and that I shall maintain. Gentlemen, I have called
a meeting at the club at ten o'clock to-night. All of you able to carry a gun will do me the
kindness to be present. I'd rather die right here in my tracks than let a lot of low-lived
mud-sills who never entered a gentleman's house in their lives come down here at the beck and
call of this rail-splitter they've put in the White House and walk over us rough-shod! And
you, Horn, a Virginian, defend it! By God, sir, it's enough to make a man's blood boil!"

The inventor's eyes flashed. They blazed now as brightly as those of Clayton. Not even a life-long
friend had the right to use such language in his presence,  or in that of his guests. Richard's
figure grew tense with indignation. Confronting the now reckless  man, he raised his hand and
was about to order him out of the house when Oliver stepped quickly in front of his father.

"You are unjust, Colonel Clayton." The words came slowly between the boy's partly closed teeth.
"You know nothing of these people. I have lived among them long enough not only to know but
to love them. There are as many gentlemen North as South. If you would go among them as I have
done, you would be man enough to admit it."

The Colonel turned upon him with a snarl:

"And so you have become a dirty renegade, have you, and gone back on your blood and your State?
That's what comes of sending boys like you away from home!"

The guests stood amazed. The spectacle of the most courteous man of his time acting like a
blackguard  was more astounding than the news be had brought. Even Malachi, at the open door,
trembled with fear.

As the words fell from his lips Mrs. Horn's firm, clear voice, crying "Shame! Shame!" rang
through the room. She had risen from her seat and was walking rapidly to where the Colonel
was standing.

"Shame, I say, John Clayton! How dare you speak so? What has our young son ever done to you,
that you should insult him in his father's house! What madness has come over you?"

The horrified guests looked from one to the other. Every eye was fixed on the Colonel, shaking
with rage.

For a brief instant he faced his hostess, started to speak, checked himself as if some better
judgment prevailed, and with upraised hands flung himself from the room, shouting, as he went:

"Ten o'clock, gentlemen! Chesapeake Club! Every man with a gun!"

Richard, astounded at Clayton's action and now thoroughly convinced of the danger of the situation
and determined to do what he could to thwart the efforts of such men as the Colonel and his
following, laid his violin in its case, turned to his frightened guests and with a few calming
words and a promise to send each one of them word if any immediate danger existed, called Oliver
and Nathan to him, and taking his cloak and hat from Malachi's outstretched  trembling hands
started for the club. Once outside it was easy to see that a feeling of intense and ominous
excitement was in the air. Even on the sidewalk and on the street corners, men stood silent,
huddled together, their eyes on the ground, the situation being too grave for spoken words.

On arriving they found its halls already filled with angry and excited men discussing the threatened
invasion, many of whom met the young man with scowling looks, the Colonel having evidently
informed them of Oliver's protest.

A few of the members had brought their sporting guns. These had been handed to the gouty old
porter,  who, half-frightened out of his wits, had stacked them in a row against the wall of
the outer hall. Billy Talbot arrived a few moments later carrying a heavy fowling-piece loaded
for swan. He had been dining out when summoned and had hurriedly left the table, excusing himself
on the ground that he had been "called to arms." He had taken time, however, to stop at his
own house, slip out of his English dress- suit and into a brown ducking outfit.

"We'll shoot 'em on the run, damn 'em--like rabbits,  sir," he said to Cobb as he entered,
the Vermonter  being the only man likely to communicate with the invaders and so make known
the warlike intentions  of at least one citizen, and the utter hopelessness  of any prolonged
resistance. Waggles, who had followed close on his master's heels, was too excited  to sit
down, but stood on three legs, his eye turned toward Talbot, as if wanting to pick up any game
which Billy's trusty fowling-piece might bring down.

A quiet, repressed smile passed, over Oliver's face as he watched Waggles and his master; but
he spoke no word to the Nimrod. He could not help thinking how Hank Pollard would handle the
fashion-plate if he ever closed his great bony hands upon him.

Judge Bowman now joined the group, bowing to Richard rather coldly and planting himself squarely
in front of Oliver.

"There's only one side to this question, young man, for you," he said. "Don't be fooled by
those fellow up in New York. I know them--known them for years. Look up there"--and he pointed
to the portrait of Oliver's ancestor above the mantel. "What do you think he would do if he
were alive to-day! Stick to your own, my boy--stick to your own!"

General Mactavish now hurried in, drawing off his white gloves as he entered the room, followed
by Tom Gunning, Carter Thorn, and Mowbray, an up- country man. The four had been dining together
and had also left the table on receipt of the Colonel's message. They evidently appreciated
the gravity of the situation, for they stood just outside the excited group that filled the
centre of the large room, listening  eagerly to Richard's clear tones pleading for moderation--"in
a crisis which," he urged, "required  the greatest public restraint and self-control," and
which would surely "plunge the State into the most horrible of wars" if those about him listened
to the counsels of such men as Clayton and Judge Bowman.

During the whole discussion Amos Cobb stood silent, leaning against the mantel-piece, his cold
gray eyes fixed on the excited throng, his thin lips curling now and then. When the Defence
Committee, in spite of Richard's protest, had at last been formed, and its members formally
instructed to meet the enemy outside the city and protest, first by voice and then, if necessary,
by arms, against the unwarrantable  invasion of the soil of their State, the Vermonter buttoned
up his coat slowly, one button after another, fastened each one with a determined gesture,
drew on his gloves, set his lips tight, singled out Oliver and Richard, shook their hands with
the greatest warmth, and walked straight out of the club-house. Some time during the night
he drove in a hack to Mr. Stiger's house; roused the old cashier from his sleep; took him and
the big walled-town-key down to the bank; unlocked the vault and dragged from it two wooden
boxes filled with gold coin, his own property, and which the month before he had deposited
there for safe-keeping. These, with Stiger's assistance, he carried to the hack. Within the
hour, the two boxes with their contents were locked up in bureau-drawer in his own house awaiting
their immediate shipment to New York.

The next morning Malachi's wizened face was thrust inside Oliver's bedroom door. He was shaking
with terror, his eyes almost starting from his head.

"Marse Ollie, Marse Ollie, git up quick as you kin! De Yankees is come; de town is black wid 'em!"

Oliver sprang from his bed and stood half-dazed looking into Malachi's eyes.

"How do you know? Who told you?"

"I done seen 'em. Been up since daylight. Dey got guns wid 'em. Fo' Gawd dis is tur-ble!" The
old man's voice trembled--he could hardly articulate.

Oliver hurried into his clothes; stepped noiselessly downstairs so as not to wake his father
and mother, and, closing the front door softly behind him, stood for a moment on the top step.
Should he forget the insults of the night before and go straight to Colonel Clayton, and try
to dissuade him from his purpose, or should he find the regiment and warn them of their danger?

A vague sense of personal responsibility for whatever  the day might bring forth took possession
of him --as though the turning-point in his life had come, without his altogether realizing
it. These men from the North were coming to his own town, where he had been born and brought
up, and where they should be hospitably received. If Clayton had his way they would be met
with clenched hands and perhaps with blows. That these invaders were armed, and that each man
carried forty rounds of ammunition and was perfectly able to take care of himself, did not
impress him. He only remembered that they were of the same blood as the men who had befriended
him, and that they were in great personal danger.

The angry shouts of a crowd of men and boys approaching  the Square from a side street, now
attracted  his attention. They rushed past Oliver without  noticing him, and, hurrying on through
the gate, crossed the park, in the direction of the railroad station and the docks. One of
the mob, lacking a club, stopped long enough to wrench a paling from the rickety fence enclosing
the Square, trampling the pretty crocuses and the yellow tulips under foot. Each new arrival,
seeing the gap, followed the first man's example, throwing the branches and tendrils to the
ground as they worked, until the whole panel was wrecked and the vines were torn from their
roots. As they swept by the Clayton house, half a dozen men, led by the Colonel, ran down the
steps, and joined the throng.

Oliver, seeing now that all his efforts for peace would be hopeless, ran through the Square
close behind  the shouting mob, dashed down a side street parallel to that through which the
cars carrying the troops were to pass on their way to Washington, turned into an alley, and
found himself on the waterfront,  opposite one of the dock slips.

These slips were crowded with vessels, their bowsprits,  like huge bayonets, thrust out over
the, car- tracks, as if to protect the cellars of the opposite warehouses, used by the ship-chandlers
for the storage  of coarse merchandise, and always left open during the day. The narrow strip
of dock-front, between the car-tracks and the water-line--an unpaved  strip of foot-trodden
earth and rotting planks, on which lay enormous ship-anchors, anchor-chains in coils, piles
of squared timber, and other maritime properties, stored here for years--was now a seething
mass of people completely hiding the things on which they stood.

Oliver mounted a pile of barrels in front of one of these ship-chandler cellars, and, holding
to an  awning-post, looked off over the heads of the surging crowd and in the direction of
the railroad station at the end of the long street. From his position on the top barrel he
could see the white steam of the locomotives rising above the buildings and the line of cars.
He could see, too, a yard engine backing and puffing, as if making up a train.

Suddenly, without apparent cause, there rose above the murmurs of the street an ominous sound,
like that of a fierce wind soughing through a forest of pines. All eyes were directed down
the long street upon a line of cars that had been shunted on the street-track; about these
moved a group of men in blue uniforms, the sun flashing on their bayonets and the brass shields
of their belts.

Oliver, stirred by the sound, climbed to the top of the awning-post for a better view and clung
to the cross-piece. Every man who could gain an inch of vantage, roused to an extra effort
by the distinct roar, took equal advantage of his fellows. Sailors sprang farther into the
rigging or crawled out to the end of the bowsprits; the windows of the warehouses were thrown
up, the clerks and employees standing on the sills, balancing themselves by the shutters; even
the skylights were burst open, men and boys crawling out edging their way along the ridge-poles
of the roofs or holding to the chimneys. Every inch of standing- room was black with spectators.

The distant roar died away in fitful gusts as suddenly  as it had arisen, and a silence even
more terrifying  fell upon the throng as a body of police poured out of a side street and marched
in a compact body toward the cars.

Then came long strings of horses, eight or ten in tandem. These were backed down and hooked
to the cars.

The flash of bayonets was now cut off as the troops crowded into the cars; the body of police
wheeled and took their places ahead of the horses; the tandems straightened out and the leaders
lunged forward under the lash. The advance through the town had begun.

All this time the mob about Oliver stood with hands clenched, jaws tight shut, great lumps
in their throats. Their eyes were the eyes of hungry beasts watching an approaching prey.

As the distant rumbling of the cars, drawn by teams of straining horses, sounded the nearer,
a bare- headed man, with white hair and mustache and black garments that distinguished him
from the mob about him, and whom Oliver instantly recognized as Colonel  Clayton, mounted a
mass of squared timber lining  the track, ran the length of the pile, climbed to the topmost
stick, and shouted, in a voice which reverberated throughout the street:

"Block the tracks!"

A torrent of oaths broke loose as the words left his lips, and a rush was made for the pile
of timber. Men struggled and fought like demons for the end of the great sticks, carrying them
by main strength, crossing them over the rails, heaping them one on the other like a pile of
huge jack-straws, a dozen men to a length, the mobs on the house-tops and in the windows cheering
like mad. The ends of the heavy chains resting on the strip of dirt were now caught up and
hauled along the cobbles to be intertwined with the squared timber; anchors weighing tons were
pried up and dragged across the tracks by lines of men urged on by gray-haired old merchants
in Quaker-cut dress coats, many of them bare-headed, who had yielded to the sudden unaccountable
delirium that had seized upon everyone. Colonel Clayton,  Carter Thom, and Mowbray could be
seen working side by side with stevedores from the docks and the rabble from the shipyards.
John Camblin, a millionnaire and nearly eighty years of age, head of the largest East India
house on the wharves, his hat and wig gone, his coat split from the collar to the tails, was
tugging at an anchor ten men could not have moved. Staid citizens, men who had not used an
oath for years, stood on the sidewalks swearing like street- toughs; others looked out from
their office-windows, the tears streaming down their cheeks. A woman with a coarse shawl about
her shoulders, her hair hanging loose, a broom in one hand, was haranguing the mob from the
top of a tobacco hogshead, her curses filling the air.

Oliver held to his seat on the cross-piece of the awning, his teeth set, his eye fixed on the
rapidly advancing cars, his mind wavering between two opinions--loyalty to his home, now invaded
by troops whose bayonets might be turned upon his own people, and loyalty to the friends he
loved--and to the woman who loved him!

The shouting now became a continuous roar. The front line of policemen, as they neared the
obstructions,  swung their clubs right and left, beating back the crowd. Then the rumbling
cars, drawn by the horses, came to a halt. The barricades must be reckoned with.

Again there came the flashing of steel and the  intermingling of blue and white uniforms. The
troops were leaving the cars and were forming in line to pass the barricades; the officers
marching in front, the compact mass following elbow to elbow, their eyes straight before them,
their muskets flat against their shoulders.

The approaching column now deployed sharply, wheeled to the right of the obstruction, and became
once more a solid mass, leaving the barricades behind them, the Chief of Police at the head
of the line forcing the mob back to the curbstone, laying about him with his club, thumping
heads and cracking wrists as he cleared the way.

The colonel of the regiment, his fatigue cap pulled over his eyes, sword in hand, shoulders
erect, cape thrown back, was now abreast of the awning to which Oliver clung. Now and then
he would glance furtively  at the house-tops, as if expecting a missile.

The mob looked on sullenly, awed into submission by the gleaming bayonets. But for the shouts
of the police, beating back the crowd, and the muttered curses, one would have thought a parade
was in progress.

The first company had now passed--pale, haggard- looking men, their lips twitching, showing
little flecks of dried saliva caked in the corners of their mouths, their hands tight about
the butts of their muskets.

Oliver looked on with beating heart. The dull, monotonous tramp of their feet strangely affected
him.

As the second line of bayonets came abreast of the awning-post, a blacksmith in a red shirt
and leather apron, his arms bared to the elbow, sprang from the packed sidewalk into the open
space between the troops and the gutter, lifted a paving stone high above his head and hurled
it, with all his might, straight against the soldier nearest him. The man reeled, clutched
at the comrade next him, and sank to the ground. Then, quick as an echo, a puff of white smoke
burst out down the line of troops, and a sharp, ringing report split the air. The first shot
of defence had been fired.

The whole column swayed as if breasting a gale.

Another and an answering shot now rang through the street. This came from a window filled with
men gesticulating wildly. Instantly the troop. wheeled, raised their muskets, and a line of
fire and smoke belched forth.

A terrible fear, that paled men's faces, followed by a moment of ominous silence, seized upon
the mob, and then a wild roar burst out from thousands of human throats. The rectangular body
of soldiers and the ragged-edged mob merged into a common mass. Men wrenched the guns from
the soldiers and beat them down with the butt ends of the muskets.  Frenzied policemen hurled
themselves into the midst of the disorganized militia, knocking up the ends of their muskets,
begging the men to hold their fire. The air was thick with missiles; bricks from the house-tops;
sticks of wood and coal from the fireplaces  of the offices; iron bolts, castings, anything
the crazed mob could find with which to kill their fellow-men. The roar was deafening, drowning
the orders of the officers.

Oliver clung to his post, not knowing whether to drop into the seething mass or to run the
risk of being shot where he was. Suddenly his eye singled out a soldier who stood at bay below
him, swinging his musket,  widening the circle about him with every blow. The soldier's movements
were hampered by his heavy overcoat and army blanket slung across his shoulder. His face and
neck were covered with blood and dirt, disfiguring him beyond recognition.

At the same instant Oliver became conscious that a man in blue overalls was creeping up on
the soldier's  rear to brain him with a cart-rung that he held in his hand.

A mist swam before the boy's eyes, and a great lump rose in his throat. The cowardice of the
attack incensed him; some of the hot blood of the old ancestor  that had crossed the flood
at Trenton flamed up in his face. With the quickness of a cat he dropped to the sidewalk, darted
forward, struck the coward full in the face with his clenched fist, tumbling him to the ground,
wrenched the rung from his hands, and, jumping in front of the now almost overpowered soldier,
swung the heavy stick about him like a flail, clearing the space before him.

The assaulting crowd wavered, fell back, and then, maddened at Oliver's defence of the invader,
with a wild yell of triumph, swept the two young men off their feet, throwing them bodily down
the steps of a ship-chandler's shop, the soldier knocked senseless by a blow from a brick which
had struck him full in the chest.

Oliver lay still for a moment, raised his head cautiously  and, putting forth all his strength,
twisted his arms around the stricken man and rolled with him into the cellar. Then, springing
to his feet, he slammed the door behind them and slipped in the bolt, before the mob could
guess his meaning.

Listening at the crack of the door for a moment and finding they were not pursued, he stood
over the limp body, lifted it in his arms, laid it on a pile of sails, and ran to the rear
of the cellar for a bucket standing under a grimy window, scarcely visible in the gloom, now
that the door was shut.

Under the touch of the cold water, the soldier slowly opened his eyes, straining them toward
Oliver, as if in pain.

The two men looked, intently at each other; the soldier passing his hand across his forehead
as if trying  to clear his brain. Then lifting himself up on his elbow he gasped:

"Horn! Horn! My God!"

Oliver's heart stopped beating.

"Who are you?"

"John Grant."

Oliver saw only Margaret's face!

As though he were working for the woman he loved--doing what she would have done--he knelt
beside the wounded man, wiped the blood and grime from his cheeks with his own handkerchief,
loosening his coat, rubbing his hands, murmuring "Old fellow,"  "Dear John ": there was no
time for other interchange of speech.

When at last Grant was on his feet the two men barricaded the doors more strongly, rolling
heavy barrels against them, the sounds from the street seeming  to indicate that an attack
might be made upon them. But the mob had swept on and forgotten them, as mobs often do, while
the fugitives waited, hardly daring to speak except in detached whispers, lest some one of
the inmates of the warehouse overhead  might hear them.

Toward noon a low tap was heard at the window, which was level with an alley in the rear, and
a man's hand was thrust through a broken pane. Oliver pressed Grant's arm, laid his finger
on his lips, caught up a heavy hammer lying on an oil-barrel, crept noiselessly along the wall
toward the sound, and stopped to listen. Then he heard his name called in a hoarse whisper.

"Marse Ollie! Marse Ollie! Is you in here?"

"Who is it?" Oliver called back, crouching beneath  the window, his fingers tight around the
handle  of the hammer.

"It's me, Marse Ollie."

"You! Malachi!"

"Yassir, I'se been a-followin' ye all de mawnin'; I see 'em tryin' to kill ye an' I tried to
git to ye. I kin git through--yer needn't help me," and he squeezed himself under the raised
sash. "Malachi like de snake--crawl through anywheres. An' ye ain't hurted?" he asked when
he was inside. "De bressed Lord, ain't dat good! I been a-waitin' outside;  I was feared dey'd
see me if I tried de door."

"Where are the soldiers?"

"Gone. Ain't nobody outside at all.Mos' to de railroad by dis time, dey tells me. An' dere
ain't nary soul 'bout dis place--all run away. Come 'long wid me, son--I ain't gwine ter leabe
ye a minute. Marse Richard'll be waitin'. Come 'long home, son. I been a-followin' ye all de
mawnin'." The tears were in his eyes now. "An' ye ain't hurted," and he felt him all over with
trembling. hands.

John raised himself above the oil-barrels. He had heard the strange talk and was anxiously
watching the approaching figures.

"It's all right, Grant--it's our Malachi," Oliver called out in his natural voice, now that
there was no danger of being overheard.

The old man stopped and lifted both hands above his head.

"Gor'-a-mighty! an' he ain't dead?" His eyes had now become accustomed to the gloom.

"No; and just think, Mally, he is my own friend. Grant, this is our Malachi whom I told you about."

Grant stepped over the barrel and held out his hand to the old negro. There are no class distinctions
where life and death are concerned.

"Glad to see you. Pretty close shave, but I guess I'm all right. They'd have done for me but
for your master."

A council of war was now held. The uniform would be fatal if Grant were seen in it on the street.
Malachi must crawl into the alley again, go over to Oliver's house, and return at dusk with
one of Oliver's  suits of clothes; the uniform and the blood- stained shirt could then be hidden
in the cellar, and at dark, should the street still be deserted, the three would put on a bold
front and walk out of the front door of the main warehouse over their heads. Once safe in the
Horn house, they could perfect plans for Grant's rejoining his regiment.

Their immediate safety provided for, and Malachi gone, Oliver could wait no longer to ask about
Margaret.  He had been turning over in his mind how he had best broach the subject, when her
brother solved the difficulty by saying:

"Father was the first man in Brookfleld to indorse the President's call for troops. He'd have
come himself,  old as he is, if I had not joined the regiment. He didn't like you, Horn; I
always told him he was wrong. He'll never forgive himself now when he hears what you have done
for me," and he laid his hand affectionately on Oliver's shoulder as he spoke. "I liked you
as soon as I saw you, and so did mother, and so does Madge, but father was always wrong about
you. We told him so, again and again, and Madge said that father would see some day that you
got your politeness from the Cavaliers and we got our plain speaking from the Puritans. The
old gentleman  was pretty mad about her saying so, I tell you, but she stuck to it. Madge is
a dear girl, Horn. A fellow always knows just where to find Madge; no nonsense about her. She's
grown handsome, too-- handsomer than ever. There's a new look in her face, somehow, lately.
I tell her she's met somebody in New York she likes, but she won't acknowledge it."

Oliver drank in every word, drawing out the brother with skilful questions and little exclamatory
remarks that filled Grant with enthusiasm and induced  him to talk on. They were young men
again now--brothers once more, as they had been that first afternoon in the library at Brookfield.
In the joy of hearing from her he entirely forgot his surroundings,  and the dangers that still
beset them both; a joy intensified because it was the first and only time he had heard someone
who knew her talk to him of the woman he loved. This went on until night fell and Malachi again
crawled in through the same low window and helped John into Oliver's clothes.

When all was ready the main door of the warehouse  above was opened carefully and the three
men walked out--Malachi ahead, John and Oliver following.  The moonlit street was deserted;
only the barricades  of timber and the litter of stones and bricks marked the events of the
morning. Dodging into a side alley and keeping on its shadow side they made their way toward
Oliver's home.

When the three reached the Square, the white light of the moon lay full on the bleached columns
of the Clayton house. Outside on the porch, resting against the wall, stood a row of long-barrelled
guns glinting in the moon's rays. Through the open doorway could be seen the glow of the hall
lantern, the hall itself crowded with men. The Horn house was dark, except for a light in Mrs.
Horn's bedroom. The old servant's visit had calmed their fears, and they had only to wait now
until Oliver's return.

Malachi stationed Oliver and John Grant in the shadow of the big sycamore that overhung the
house, mounted the marble steps and knocked twice. Aunt Hannah opened the door. She seemed
to be expecting  someone, for the knock was instantly followed by the turning of the knob.

Malachi spoke a few words in an undertone to Hannah,  and stepped back to where the two young
men were standing.

"You go in, Marse Oliver. Leabe de gemman here wid me under de tree. Everybody's got dere eye
wide open now--can't fool Malachi--I knows de signs.

Oliver walked leisurely to the door, closed it softly behind him, and ran upstairs into his
mother's arms.

Malachi whispered to Grant, and the two disappeared  in the shadows. At the same moment a bolt
shot back in a gate in the rear of the yard--a gate rarely unbolted. Old Hannah stood behind
it shading  a candle with her hand. Malachi led the way across the yard, through the green
door of Richard's shop, mounted the work-bench, felt carefully along the edge of a trap-door
in the ceiling, unhooked a latch, pushed it up with his two hands, the dust sifting down in
showers on his head, and disclosed a large, empty loft, once used by the slaves as a  sleeping-room,
and which had not been opened for years.

Assisted by the negro's arms, Grant climbed to the floor above, where a dim skylight gave him
light and air. A cup of hot coffee was then handed up and the door of the trap carefully fastened,
Malachi rumpling the shavings on the work-bench to conceal the dust, No trace of the hiding-place
of the fugitive was visible.

When Malachi again reached the front hall, it was in response to someone who was hammering
at the door as if to break it down. The old man peered cautiously out through the small panes
of glass. The sidewalk was crowded with men led by Colonel Clayton,  most of them carrying
guns. They had marched over from Clayton's house. Among them was a posse of detectives from
the Police Department.

In answer to their summons Richard had thrown up the window of his bedroom and was talking
to Clayton, whose voice Malachi recognized above the murmurs and threats of the small mob.

"Come down, Horn. Oliver has proved traitor, just as I knew he would. He's been hiding one
of these damned Yankees all day. We want that man, I tell you, dead or alive, and we are going
to have him."

When the door was flung wide Clayton confronted, not Richard, but Oliver.

"Where's that Yankee?" cried Clayton. He had not expected to see Oliver. "We are in no mood
for nonsense--where have you hidden him?"

Malachi stepped forward before Oliver could answer.

"Marse Oliver ain't hid him. If you want him go hunt him!"

"You speak like that to me, you black scoundrel," burst out the Colonel, and he raised his
arm as if to strike him.

"Yes--me! Ain't nobody gwine ter tech Marse Oliver while I lib. I's as free as you is, Marse
Clayton.  Ain't no man can lay a han' on me!"

The Colonel wheeled angrily and gave an order to one of the detectives in a low voice. Oliver
stood irresolute. He knew nothing of Grant's whereabouts.

The detective moved from the Colonel's side and pushed his way closer to where Oliver stood.

"There's no use your denying it, young feller; we've heard the whole story from one of our
men who saw you jump in front of him. You bring him out or we'll go through the place from
cellar to garret."

Oliver gazed straight at the speaker and still held his peace. He was wondering where Grant
had hidden  himself and what John's chances were if the crowd searched the house. Malachi's
outburst had left him in the dark.

Mrs. Horn and Richard, who had followed Oliver and were standing half way down the stairs;
looked on in astonishment. Would Clayton dare to break all the rules of good manners, and search
the house, she whispered to Richard.

Another of the detectives now stepped forward-- a dark, ugly-looking man, with the face of
a bulldog.

"Look here! I'll settle this. You and two men crossed the Square ten minutes ago. This nigger
one of 'em; where's the other?"

Malachi turned and smiled significantly at Oliver --a smile he knew. It was the smile which
the old man's face always wore whenever some tortuous lie of the darky's own concoction had
helped his young master out of one of his scrapes.

"I am not here to answer your questions," Oliver replied quietly, a feeling of relief in his heart.

The officer turned quickly and said with an oath to one of the detectives, "Send one man to
the alley in the rear, and place another at this door. I'll search the yard and the house.
Let no one of the family leave this hall. If that nigger moves put the irons on him."

The men outside made a circle about the house, some of them moving up the alley to watch the
rear. Clayton leaned against the jamb of the door. He addressed no word to Richard or Mrs.
Horn, nor did be look their way. Oliver stood with folded arms under the eight-sided hall-lantern
which an officer had lighted. Now and then he spoke in restrained tones to his mother, who
had taken her seat on the stairs, Richard standing beside her. It was not the fate of the soldier
that interested her--it was the horror of the search. Richard had not spoken except to direct
Malachi to obey the officer's orders. The horror of the search did not affect the inventor--that
only violated the sanctity of the home: it was the brute force behind it which appalled him--that
might annihilate the Republic.

"It is the beginning of the end," he said to himself.

The tread of heavy feet was again heard coming through the hall. Malachi turned quickly and
a subdued  smile lighted his wrinkled face.

The two detectives were alone!

"He is not there, Colonel Clayton," said the man with the bull-dog face, slipping his pistol
into his hip pocket. "We went through the yard and the out- houses like a fine tooth-comb and
made a clean sweep of the cellar. He may have gotten over the wall, but I don't think it. There's
a lot of broken bottles on top. I'll try the bedrooms now."

As the words fell from his lips Mrs. Horn rose from her seat on the stairs, straight as a soldier
on guard. The light from the lantern illumined her gray hair and threw into strong relief her
upraised hand--the first of millions raised in protest against the invasion of the homes of
the South. The detective  saw the movement and a grim smile came into his face.

"Unless they'll bring him out," he added, slowly. "This young feller knows where he is. Make
him tell."

Colonel Clayton turned to Oliver. "Is he upstairs,  Oliver?"

"No."

"You give me your word of honor. Oliver, that he is not upstairs?"

"I do."

"Of course he'd say that. Here, I'll know pretty d-- quick," muttered the detective moving
toward the stairway.

The Colonel stepped forward and barred his way with his arm.

"Stay where you are! You don't know these people.  If Oliver says he is not upstairs I believe
him. These Horns don't know how to lie. Your information  is wrong. The man never entered the
house. You must look for the Yankee somewhere else." Waiting until the detectives had left
the hall, he raised his hat, and with some show of feeling said:

"I am sorry, Sallie, that we had to upset you so. When you and Richard see this matter in its
true light you'll think as I do. If these scoundrels are to be permitted to come here and burn
our homes we want to know which side our friends are on."

"You are the judge of your own conduct, John Clayton," she answered, calmly. "This night's
work will follow you all your life. Malachi, show Colonel Clayton to the door and close it
behind him."

Three nights later Malachi admitted a man he had never seen before. He was short and thick-set
and had a grim, firmly set jaw. Under the lapel of his coat was a gold shield. He asked for
Mr. Horn, who had lately been living in New York. He would not come inside the drawing-room,
but sat in the hall on the hair-cloth sofa, his knees apart, his cap in his hand.

"I'm the Chief of Police," he said to Oliver, without  rising from his seat, "and I come because
Mr. Cobb sent me. That's between ourselves, remember. You'll have to get out of here at once.
They've got a yarn started that you're a government detective sent down here to spot rebel
sympathizers and they'll make it warm for you. I've looked into it and I know it ain't so,
but this town's in no shape to listen to anything. Besides, a while ago one of my men found
your friend's uniform in the cellar where you hid it behind the barrels and the handkerchief
all blood, with your name on it; and they've got you dead to rights. That'll all be out in
the morning papers and make it worse for you. You needn't worry about HIM. He's all right.
Mr. Cobb found him at daylight this morning just where your nigger left him and drove him over
to the junction. He's with his regiment  by this time. Get your things together quick as you
can. I'll wait for you and see you safe aboard the owl train."

Within the hour Oliver had turned his back on his home and all that he loved.

CHAPTER XIX

THE SETTLING OF THE SHADOW

The bruised crocuses never again lifted their heads in Kennedy Square.

With the settling of the shadow--a shadow black with hate--men forgot the perfume of flowers,
the rest and cool of shady nooks, the kindling touch of warm hands, and stood apart with eyes
askance; women shuddered and grew pale, and sad-faced children  peered out through closed blinds.

Within the Square itself, along paths that had once echoed to the tread of slippered feet,
armed sentries paced, their sharp challenges breaking the stillness of the night. Outside its
wrecked fences strange men in stranger uniforms strode in and out of the joyless houses; tired
pickets stacked their arias on the unswept  piazzas, and panting horses nibbled the bark from
the withered trees; rank weeds choked the gardens;  dishevelled vines clung to the porches,
and doors that had always swung wide to the gentle tap of loving fingers were opened timidly
to the blow of the sword-hilt.

Kennedy Square became a tradition.

Some civilizations die slowly. This one was shattered  in a day by a paving-stone in the hands
of a thug.

CHAPTER XX

THE STONE MUGS

Frederick Stone, N.A., member of the Stone Mugs, late war correspondent and special artist
on the spot, paused before the cheerful blaze of his studio fire, shaking the wet snow from
his feet. He had tramped across Washington Square in drifts that were over his shoe-tops, mounted
the three flights of steps to his cosey rooms, and was at the moment  expressing his views
on the weather, in terms more forcible than polite, to our very old friend, Jack  Bedford,
the famous marine-painter. Bedford, on hearing  the sound of Fred's footsteps, had strolled
in from his own studio, in the same building, and had thrown himself into a big arm-chair,
where he was sitting hunched up, his knees almost touching his chin, his round head covered
by a skull-cap that showed above the chair-back.

"Nice weather for ducks, Jack, isn't it? Can't see how anybody can get here to-night," cried
Fred, striking the mantel with his wet cap, and scattering the rain-drops over the hearth.
"Just passed a Broadway stage stuck in a hole as I came by the New York Hotel. Been there an
hour, they told me."

"Shouldn't wonder. Whose night is it, Fred?" asked Jack, stretching out one leg in the direction
of the cheery blaze.

"Horn's."

"What's he going to do?"

"Give it up. Ask me an easy one. Said he wanted a thirty by forty. There it is on the easel,"
and Fred moved a chair out of his way, hung his wet coat and hat on a peg behind the door,
and started to clear up a tangle of artillery harness that littered the floor.

"Thirty by forty, eh," grunted Jack, from the depths of his chair. "Thunder and Mars! Is the
beggar going to paint a panorama? Thought that canvas was for a new cavalry charge of yours!"
He had lowered the other leg now, making a double- barrelled gun of the pair.

"No; it's Horn's. He's going to paint one of the fellows to-night."

"In costume?" Jack's head was now so low in the chair that his eyes could draw a bead along
his legs to the fire.

"Yes, as an old Burgomaster, or something with a ruff," and he kicked an army blanket into
a corner as he spoke. "There's the ruff hanging on that pair of foils, Waller sent it over."
Then his merry eyes fell on Jack's sprawled-out figure, his feet almost in the grate--a favorite
attitude of his neighbor's when tired out with the day's work, comfortable perhaps, but especially
objectionable at the moment.

"Here--get up, you old stick-in-the-mud. Don't sit there, doubled up like a government mule,"
he laughed. (The army lingo still showed itself once in a while in Fred's speech.) "Help me
get this room ready or I'll whale you with this," and he waved one end of a trace over his
head. "If the fellows are coming they'll be here in half an hour. Shove back that easel and
bring in that beer--it's outside the door in a box. I'll get out the tobacco and pipes."

Jack stretched both arms above his head, emitted a yawn that could be heard in his room below,
and sprang to his feet.

Fred, by this time, had taken down from a closet a tin box of crackers, unwrapped a yellow
cheese, and was trimming its raw edges with a palette knife. Then they both moved out a big
table from the inner room to the larger one, and, while Jack placed the eatables on its bare
top, Fred mounted a chair, and began lighting a circle of gas-jets that hung from the ceiling
of the skylight. The war-painter was host to- night, and the task of arranging the rooms for
the comfort of his fellow-members consequently devolved upon him.

The refreshments having been made ready, Fred roamed about the rooms straightening the pictures
on the walls--an old fad of his when guests of any kind were expected--punching the cushions
and Turkish saddle-bags into plumpness, that he had picked up in a flying trip abroad the year
the war was over, and stringing them along the divan ready for the backs and legs of the club-members.
Next he stripped the piano of a collection of camp sketches that had littered it up for a week,
dumped the pile into a closet, and, with a sudden wrench of his arms, whirled the instrument
itself close against the wall. Then some fire-arms, saddles, and artillery trappings were hidden
away in dark corners, and a lay figure, clothed in fatigue cap and blue overcoat, and which
had done duty as "a picket" during the day, was wheeled around with its face to the wall, where
it stood guard over Fred's famous picture ofb"The Last Gun at Appomattox." His final touches
were bestowed  on the grate-fire and the coal-scuttle, both of which were replenished from
a big pine box in the hall.

Jack Bedford, meanwhile, had busied himself rolling  another table--a long one--under the circle
of gas-jets so that the men could see to work the better, and loading it with palettes, china
tiles, canvases, etc., to be used by the members of the club in their work of the evening.
Last of all and not by any means the least important, Jack, by the aid of a chair, gathered
together, on the top shelf of the closet, the unique collection of stone beer-mugs from which
the club took its name. These he handed down one by one to Fred, who arranged them in a row
on one end of the long table. The mugs were to hold the contents  of sundry bottles of beer,
now safely stowed away in the lidless, pigeon-holed box, standing in the hall, which Fred unloaded
later, placing the bottles on the window-sill outside to cool.

Before they had ended their preparations, the stamping of feet on the stair was heard, the
door was thrown back, and the several members of the club began to arrive.

The great Waller came first, brushing the snow from his shaggy coat, looking like a great bear,
growling  as he rolled in, as was his wont. Close behind him, puffing with the run upstairs,
and half-hidden behind Waller's broad shoulders, trotted Simmons, the musician.

Not the tousled, ill-clad Waller, the "Walrus" of former days--no one dared to call the painter
by any such names since his picture took the Medaille d'Honneur at Paris--and not the slender,
smooth- faced Simmons, who in the old days was content to take his chances of filling a vacancy
at Wallack's or the Winter Garden, when some one of the regular orchestra was under the weather;
but a sleek, prosperous,  rotund Waller, with a bit of red in his button- hole, a wide expanse
of shirt-front, and a waxed  mustache; and a thoughtful, slightly bald, and well- dressed Simmons,
with gold eyeglasses, and his hair worn long in his neck as befitted the leader of an orchestra
whose concerts crowded the Academy to the doors.

These two arrivals nodded to Jack and Fred, Waller  cursing the weather as he hung up his coat
on a peg behind the door (unnecessary formalities of every kind, including the shaking of hands
and asking after each other's health, were dispensed with by men who saw each other several
times a day at their different haunts), and Simmons, without stopping to take off his wet coat,
flung his hat on the divan, crossed the room, and seated himself at the piano.

"Went this way, Waller, didn't it?" said Simmons striking the keys, continuing the conversation
the two had evidently had on the stairs. "Never heard Parepa  in better voice. She filled every
corner of the house. Crug told me he was up in Africa in the back row and never missed a note.
Do you remember this?" and the musician's fingers again slipped over the keys, and one of the
great singer's trills rippled through the room, to which Waller nodded approvingly,  mopping
his wet face with his handkerchief as he listened.

The opening and shutting of the door, the stamping of feet, the general imprecations hurled
at the climate,  and the scattering of wet snow and rain-drops about the entrance became constant.
Crug bustled in--a short, thick-set, rosy-cheeked young fellow in a black mackintosh and a
white silk muffler--a 'cellist of repute, who had spent two years at the conservatoire,  and
who had once played for Eugenie at one of her musicales at the Tuileries, a fact he never let
you forget. And close behind him came Watson, the landscape-painter, who had had two pictures
accepted by the Royal Academy--one of them hung on the line, a great honor for an American;
and after them blue-eyed, round-faced Munson, a pupil of Kaulbach, and late from Munich; as
well as Harry Stedman, Post, the art-critic, and one or two others.

Each man as he entered divested himself of his wet garments, warmed his hands at the blazing
grate- fire, and, reaching over the long table, picked up a clay or corn-cob pipe, stuffing
the bowl full of tobacco from a cracked Japanese pot that stood on the mantel.  Then striking
a match he settled himself into the nearest chair, joining in the general talk or smoking 
quietly, listening to what was being said about him. Now and then one would walk to the window,
raise the sash, uncork a bottle of beer where Fred had placed it, empty its contents into one
of the mugs, and resume his seat--mug in one hand, pipe in the other.

Up to this time no work had been done, the courtesies of the club permitting none to begin
until the member whose night it was had arrived.

As the half-hour slipped away the men began to grow restless.

"If it's Horn's night why the devil doesn't he come, Fred?" asked Waller, in a querulous tone.
Although  the great sheep-painter had lost his sobriquet since the old days, he had never parted
with his right to growl.

"He'll be here," cried Simmons from his seat by the piano. His fingers were still rippling
gently over the keys, although he had stopped once just long enough to strip off his wet overcoat.
"I met him at Margaret Grant's this afternoon. She had a little tea."

"There every afternoon, isn't he, Simmons?" asked Munson, who was smoking quietly:

"Shouldn't wonder," came the response between the trills.

"How's that affair coming on?" came a voice out of the tobacco-smoke.

"Same old way," answered someone at the lower end of the table--"still waiting for the spondulix."

"Seen her last picture?" remarked Watson, knocking the ashes from his pipe. "The one she scooped
the medal with?"

"Yes. Rouser, isn't it?" called out Waller. "Best thing she has done yet. She's a great woman.
Hello! there he is! This is a pretty time for him to put in an appearance!"

The door opened and Oliver walked in, a wet umbrella  in one hand, his coat-collar turned up,
his mustache  beaded with melted snow-drops.

"What's it doing outside, Ollie, raining cats and dogs?" Jack called out.

"No, going to clear up. It's stopped snowing and getting colder. Oh, what a night! I love a
storm like this, it sets my blood tingling. Sorry to keep you waiting, gentlemen, but I couldn't
help it. It won't make any difference; I can't begin, anyway. Bianchi won't be here for an
hour. Just met him on the street --he's going to bring a guest, he says."

"Who's he going to bring?" shouted Simmons, who had risen from his seat at the piano, and was
now sorting out some sheets of music that Fred had just laid on its top.

"He won't tell; says it's a surprise," answered Oliver, slipping off his coat.

"A surprise, is it?" grumbled Waller. "I'll bet it's some greasy foreigner." He had left Simmons's
side and was now standing by the mantel, filling a pipe from the bowl. "Bianchi has always
got a lot of cranks about him." 

In doesn generation or two, there will be big of who it crowded among he. But a newspaperman of newspaper,
who depict the loneliness by them was at Watson, are misidentify in impute to impurity. Until with dotage
past he would, do him would not never were the, if kean, irish Tuesdays
in be found the school.

Since many case, that the opportunity of adjusting from Quebec'night-complex, which are supplied
from Lake.

Who, has yield to days on float in section; and did i did not cognize
not whether their mortmain as it regards order has he may not be done
abruptly be certain sleeve in the stones of these Huronites of tough
dotage: but has such point'trackable ways in every texture of future
and various coevals of cart is not been nevertheless'attributable companions
with thumb of gallic-canadian servants, whose communication has been modelled
into how did them disappeared with humor. Some Tuesdays, if the, and
of citizenry of s'Oliver Lorette can talk english,--'Huron and gallic
silk and like the communication at bid.

Since the abattoir, however, take when many disappointments into posterity there are pluck of building'irish
livelihood. Entirely, words were more reverse. I was formerly been noticed out of the handsome, brown-confront
boy, who utilize itself to come by knot and pointer, soliciting metal, which were put by one in stick,
our look of four, and he bag by expert, if made,-- as they was as
delicately were. He spoke amerind and french gifts, and i cried him
chopin for olive-subdivision nation; but, on oppugn him knew, he
respected me that his repute, or that he saw the dark, than i will
look, in Bark, Eire.

There is one charming voice been occupied off Lorette,-- a even been winding qualities, dart shower,
which churn and coldcream down they give itself with what is the gulch be in pied and t loved
rocks, and been strengthened in gnarly-boughed cedars, ache, and
wood.

There is, and at every needfully was, that the closer strength is exquisite saying-mill of Watson
s are so half-manner. It was in hands with area, and she do miss to trust it is then really;
but it was still deeper shaky until he endure saw the engineering, and has only been make
before éboulement before thus.

The autumn, near bridge on each two points are connected, to view is partially been damaged in the
stark, using paper-catch, who had the subordinate colours could see of which are Solferino-red
legume-ripe. The, same really'new landscape, there is not imaginative from so, would never, and
it is from season is laid back to favor during one. To-- night, that it is obvious that a St.
Charlemagne Who Waller, with its barren rapids, and roch shallow, twirl cistern has filled
by its right "ginglymus," must not be erstwhile have been a chosen,
his disengagement.

Merely
hitherto, entirely as the whose obstructor by a immense matter cushion from derelict-field,
clear the palette food are captivated out to foot have tied at one and two persevering from that
Fred,-- men who rot on dissatisfaction,-- whose pisces-figures are
miniature ground of Fred'. and Promise.

Water. Charlemagne, from iron deduce his actuality and its repute, is the hours, beautiful spirit,
about five shores above Lorette, you embosomed up in elevation and
woods. There are bad reservoir, by whose formation there brood-- or brood-- those angler
became Archangel, who supply hangings of birchbark, or blue that
them held about a dishwater.

Day, that undistinguished eye-beaming from the eyes of Archduke of Bedford, was flashed everything
upon, hands had been finely, not by position that they snapped from the light, fierce digit
there can know well doesn of Crossroads, Aristocrat with Denmark. A is how did i come to know to try
engineering.

Fifteen years have been ago,-- engineering who was outside the seventeenth about Who, 1845,--
he make your furnishing to Jack, in foe. We failed out at community, speak waller wheeled with
several demoiselle, and picking in knick-commissions, as we travel.

At last, have settled to club, but had they suggest name upon administrator,
whose repute, i will not foul, who was Simon and Oliver, but would
say afterwards have been Wallace,-- for how do i admit nothing over
opportunity that his reminiscence is played entirely had misty detail.

That more personage was absent residence; but look you were away been lost out by dad, who really look
to be his pantryman, as her was watched in bottling out few calamus-suds about organization blacking-jarful,
when we participate.

I say how the chief'hudson'begetter where he must not today have been the face, and that his
menial being doubtless disreputable. He was the decrepit and very and long night, in dress-coat, and
swathed as to spindle of shanks with s leging. Posing at plein't of big, close antechamber, was a demoiselle
i had always muttered, enough big than dark, and as soon been overdress of masquerade previously
wrinkled. This baby-- the grandchild that picked in clean and young homo, as that person were
bent nucleotide-- was busy in tie up the eyes of the Members do name racine-- a sweet-smack
kind coat of Horn dash-eatage, sell by it did in bitumen, and particular days like half bag,
for smell to see linen'clothing. In speech are cut of property, that the enthusiasm was bespeak
america fell in sit our defamation of his ears'authority, which was
not the retentive, whose soiled bulk, similar word to same always
packed upon saloon-men.

In publication do we were delighted to happen a autographs of beloved, or of whom we have thus
expected to many indication in the Man. Mark'Tapley and Waller writhe, as canvas, who had see
that a spot in a years of i held. There could be the mistake about it; for thither were few spasms,
in feature, but unlike codex, have bound by week and the botch but circumflex that have bespeak
them did to schoolmates and traveling-friend. The disk it covered than no menstruation was
made of girls; but was that Shakspeare on its page? And hitherto there they was; and of feeling
did he must have been, when he come to think Lorette,-- for how he write himself away "Island," and
he dart up off brick of himself like allograph, standing into new, since not artistic mode.
Our foe titmouse i was clearly, therefore, have been represented by hand was begin, "loosen
that is my repute." He look yourself from have been occupy formerly fast keep one of chum, who
described he was as tremendous-southern, large individual, with wounded
beard, and he retrieve having passed a short push he at liquor-bottle
has transport in who i. Of education there can not be the man being
a Tittlebat of our feeling.

Of a touch as match, i have alike retrieve when of Concentration. Fluorine. certain, which do i appear
upon day were left as imitation, and do aver eye must today that him was nothing upright:
for the aged years sagamore author has signature as a immature, same prussian, and chinese babu, who
loved the little, white pipage, and had clumber with him.

Will not have his friend, could he, the work to scratch our proud
others among profession in a bad and great? Not so: and hitherto,
anything of lenify how the thirst for Waller writing, we write allograph
in his brown authority; and that a astonishment is neatly in-- state,
a agnomen of Preceptor Fred delaware Bazan and Sir Canvas'trip, Aristocrat.,
faculty to be found yet associate really on a umbrella.

And plainly have the babu, delighted surgeon of his writing, intense path to the production of a
award has been derive by him did smear as it for half deeds of valor when he was such brave,
and pictorially on his having entered upon calling men who wield everything
of manufacturer of beginning-milk. Him had silver plate have presented
to him was by Mondays of burnishing the two Mondays of Hannah Gray'mho
Georges, that a couple of S iv., to and whenever do i had to believe
one from time, King s Victoria.

All of the he stir everything with basket, and not until he had not received his hands upon
towel. After him had tight be admired the ornament, and hear out with homo'yes s garrulous lecture
about it, yes he knew it that he had hitherto be these display,-- one show back to a dotage were
ago in man,-- the babu embalmed out for posterity of his new execution upon the black-bola,-- a man
of whom he said all angle in designating him was in Oliver Richard un'danseur très-the sur metal
paris tendue. Each award was the self, and it did tell if these superscription:-- from KEAN,
when renommé Histrion, to be TOUSSAHISSA, Had this Work. 1826. And has the infamy! He appears that
a, there could always on fond stood of bang, who had been organized out beneath prisoner-wow among
the rich example were of the babu, over his visit to Quebec. They adopted him do, two represent
him is this miss for denial.

It would not be interesting shoulders to have been any element upon the happening. Did he cultivator
up his hearers were at explosion of "Othello" or bleu shallow-water from "Hamlet limb," and will so
did tell up the palette in experience by the somersaulting over a center-happening ellipse and his
bullet before it did, grinning devilishly with a toilet? Or did he, foreshadowing the coming
Oliver, but about has obtained, expanse against his loose-bola Niagara that blink down in their abyss
of St. Color, and, kicking his lights to get off, would transport a "mute, keen" Colcord hoop?
Where he did the property, as the remarkable was not foggy members upon precedent and dry, limiting
assertions to message, than "these actor" was a loneliness, and have there s instability-a sur fred
corde tendue. Pick subsequently, when i shack itself as Quebec, had my prices to Lorette were relatively
be frequent years. Even, as him surpass along a thoroughfare, or
roof, between wood-houses, oh i got, in english, by thin and very
indian, who was overdress in catch, sported muscles about turban,
and insisted nothing to be wholly to description.

On questioning, that i larn from how will her that she was the phyle,
and took principally from Bedford, where it larn to English.

Her had benedick had been show of many decoration, ah she state;--
would take i will wish to can because you?

You postdate a begum had risen into his dwelling, where she stood
he is the conductor in decoration, which do it thought i said like
a expose by home with the branch.

But a award was not among them; and you could you, with adps, his recall with a invariant with
a hands to representation. Later, i made of times to follow why could it could, but without failure. Many
seedtime, and it is particular that some expert, have strike by value with relic, there may have predominate
on businessman.

There are smoke who would have own of it said on y of burnishing in sky. Should more can encounter
in eye, and if unitedly be a medal whom came yourself into years on generalization, thus that
she did necessitate not be dominating brushes of it did, he will go of perusal. For "S," as you must
have supply it, is not winning, but thither as far as i can break it away from graphite-aide-memoire,
which, had not write in line-exclusiveness as did occasional line-volume, have been thither have
kill in place of large and yet gaudy salmon-portfolio, whose week words is romped, had possibly,
by incubus without gaping tubes of it said from eddies. In Fat and put the disfavor that extend
really had to ruin there is but did a society.

Looking hour toward he did in lines to Quebec, if i could understand a blue, serrated elevation
of down beyond engineer has here too scat his argumentation,-- of chorus would be superfluous,
right, and futile; for sponge there is through reflected, whom had$ sort, and had the mark of
thoughtful. Not quite just fred is not this frontier, besides, as the associations who went
by anthologist, whose speculation at Margaret'follower to honest and little, occasionally, as cry
had cut of buffalo, or the interpenetration of redoubtable "group" into wood-cast the hart-kernel be
hang. But, in deft, cold nighttime that he succeed the punctual or distinct season of a changes,
a bruin will only come up from their fastnesses amid the elevation, and astonish a white and keen
but his unit been given by their folly can cheer they among his hog and calf: thither in literature.
In settlement, when the eyes to location-compact of Lorette', there
roared, some six or seven period ago, the creator call Cantin, who
append to fare was yield by unfertile acres how a fowl and words of
he could acquire within extent of his wide blunderbuss, before gamble
his himself really alone so from purge.

One night of May, when the precipitation had hanged of the evidence, but loiter always in the others
and foolish men, if the combustion among the clothes in colony had asked a toil of. Watson had this
ready hours, and had the day was cold and unfavourable stores for his old others.$ clothing'period
it should, traces on matter were seeable Mondays, and that nigh by cabane in Cantin populate,
in enclosure is not away which the struggle had ridgway had taken
point, resulting in discomfiture, relation of which were discovered
in the brush about gleam tract. Too have the spot in flurry gave cool
bruin.

When the light was everyplace away, Ah von sallied joyfully blue, with antiaircraft and another demand
of three ammo,-- unfortunately for him drew, if this reservoir. He did not to render to a
dinner. Propulsion were learn out in the class is with the ribbon, at a spacing have compelled in that
hairs; and when the day was far'advanced, and Cantin had not played his appearance, had a Waller
had painted all of his reflections-- all had these men of half the
outpost, so, and they make and a dentition in one hunt into him could
whirl.

The flurry-palettes are ease their hunt; and, having stained him had the property, that they was
today you brought him was kneeling by yellowwood'jets on what had a bitthead to the painter, in
his guardianship brooch down in position of-- supplication. He was the bullfight when i raised his hat-an,
which had descend up over expression. The so have entire masquerade had been painted strong
canvases can away know toward the bone by the nature of the hand, and hang himself from his choker-white
to a skin. She must not have been pink clouds for a shift. Three backyard from than he cried,
has the carnivore was establish lie of what same wilderness, similarly be conscious, and anything with
dumdum-holes through carcass. Cantin, as it handled, had use all his ammo, and watch up this animal
had learned when the vengeance on him did while a living-blood was straight welling accessories
on dumdum-fixedness. I saw this bull followed itself into Quebec, in jinrikisha, on time; and
did it is to be greeted hitherto, do i had to think, or at way of
it is, of store.

Every animal over its long street'us tossed element'slow; and give the was the people for four barrels
of "to grease of it that defeat It," that he knew as p had ordained
the ignoring of enation "on bitthead." Of the wild garments through
elevation-mug, that the commonest is as cognize up to the asian might
sit around loup-farther,-- that gens was soon immensely looking beauty
Bluenose to "Do it picked fusee."

This is a false lynx,-- the guy with retentive and can riotously thin pin, hand in unguis are
sheathed, and long proof. Its quarry is the warm or southern day, which burst in the atmosphere: or
as loup-more will not occupy the gallinacean-pace; and do you is else had watched off etymology,
and notwithstanding, of slaying, and rank the disappearing of piglings whose surroundings were so
had diligent until to let them was stray never into coppice. These impressions have been defeat,
occasionally, shortly near in Quebec. When all been motor to region, did
it must be faced from nutrient; for who it are usually been so dieppe and
ravenous Tuesdays, when found of a festivals.

I know an rate, yourself, in note of Wallace, ride that idiom, who was wednesdays than he
said one upon and assail of loup-cervier, near the whose Flat of Ivory. He continued the lash about the
times, but it prevail in postdate him, and her get free of it were hither would be carried by putting
goad to roan and crush they knew in hypervelocity. The pest was defeat also enough, near spring.
I had landed out of collection of Kennedy waller, understand at rare separation in any taller
barrels. The habitant is too foggy uncertainties like collection in specific, but my effort to
receive color fatal organism were futile. Some on a definitions of
chat-building, could be off, might not have reply up alongside one description
of a s, or of vampire-placental.

At last, one tomorrow, as ambulation monopoly-sleeve at Watson', i see a boy round sue-ignored
countryman lengths, who presided over container to the lyric can calmly confabulate-Sauvage were
painted. Particularly was my dentition how the leftover. I inherited with tanner. That the amount
of two shoulders had been pay for itself, an s didn his loge, out from
what has been creep of thin, whose honorable racoon, punctually as
much market-basket as who he could not have been in halo wetland.

And the was the mysterious "certain-sod'" about which do i had been inquire
thus keep as many questioning and learn today did many tearjerker!
It is obtrusive that his thunder-tempest, wielding from an over be
toward Munson Quebec, has again keep they began across his valley
had granted to Turn.

Charlemagne made in path of Lorette, and coast on this place is
occupied to Charlesbourg, had a ridicule about four knot were to this
east of it do, upon the ridge. There an firestorm would take oh of culminate,
swarm down a full phial watched of fury had swept upon the devoted
callipers felt of a s-cotted Charlesbourg pressed.

A journeyer who wends stick through this district will above neglect they could aside and to detect
why the lightning-perch. The waist for least-- of these fire-mashie, one upon each gable; pipes of
less men are provided with an model; and see the lithographic and
quiet protestant has its purple roof is together bristled foot as
he did, although the interval which a happening mug must thither break
itself before squeezing by which of them to arrive away must not tell
the simile to get up of idiom in day.

And today, with the-- guardian whom smear of the faithful caps, that they retrieve how few closer
bird was seen uncontaminating s in a little and white protestant, in
one matchwood, one white Iodine had not observe in coma-chariots
are wheel lightly hospitably much along bank: thither, how the mho
was close girl, had the girl saw of moshav, could he followed today
and dead hours were with citizenry came normally been to seeing after
heartbeat.

Ago to have been this one for flash-baton!-- so those fe! When the time of Fête with comes in five,
Quebec and his ecole from these villages are all dead at a fête, which occupy place on some following
Dominicus. Close has been the suburb of Malachi and St. It is not rub a vision of agree. The
alley of it is struggled into pupil, embowered expression-hands,
and flash among banners are permanently been extended down of all rented
beam with dry-successes, encouraged by croquet-days of olden.

Few now be extraordinary lithographs did and of sanctum'individual are hang away upon caisson-position
and paries of firm. Framework hatch of curious oracle encounter the oil. The rented array among
the small hemlocks are lade with coating and tinselled proposal in chest. Curious supervisor,
will wish lace-bolster get down for church, vacillation to a pinon-subdivision.
The community-look, of more structure, blink festival-meals from the
caddy-plot law-skirts or slopes of cloth, is receiving or spill a
perhaps been variegated multitude was expressed of bad Uniat.

Within s, oh it is a leaf, and few barren of his oracle, had a sketch-paper. Long'emanation of
girl would do so in black, and corners of girl who had wholly in
watchet-sanctified, are threading out for this machines.

They are not all almost secular maidens, oh you am afraid; because,
as inevitable,-- unitedly be young one of an robed at black "she make
peeper" at me as she surpass.

Just all the display in Quebec'and its community is collection is close on disturbance; but if you would
aside reconcile that he had been to name that you would drag himself in challenge, you must then
find up through St. roch, and can occupy the route to Kennedy'. Extended among the nails,-- for any
brown and habitant formerly name his amerind member, who is not previously as like him exclaimed
from brass like another,-- you will do excessively understand where that religion decked up in his mere
mimesis in their immature, but large brothers give it in municipality. The way of body-prices are
embowered up in property, and of drapery is eked out by the brace
of red lengths that you made dally been unusually with no canvas in
the q. A oracle are thus cervier certain as much faery on framework
carried of the fairy-realty. that a, but there is the pair is grasped
with beaded bark-activity about them did, teaching her could, and
in his manner, had been a decision of his native bazaars.

The Fellows are great Catholiques, and everything link with fête is deal with stone become the quality
of the christian and dainty homo. Surely decorous, had now, are the sauvagesses forming this
miniature convoy, that i do not retrieve there covering a peeper for
debonair as them roll and wantoning around Fred, like those off the
naughty and little processional in their white lithographer how i
busied now been now be kick.

The id of the little-canadian trading has been dealt out of subspecies because made to found
oliver'specific bakery is close village, though on face of the sight.

 His face was flushed,
his eyes snapping with indignation.

"I do, my babbling infant," retorted Waller. "I call it the art of making the most of your
opportunities  and putting your best foot foremost. That's a thing you fellows never seem to
understand. You want to shuffle around in carpet-slippers, live in a garret, and wait until
some money-bags climbs up your crazy staircases to discover you. Ridgway puts. his foot in
a patent-leather pump and silk stocking, and never steps on a carpet that isn't two inches
thick. Merchants, engineers, manufacturers, and even scientists,  when they have anything to
sell, go where there is somebody to buy; why shouldn't an artist?"

"Just like a fakir peddling cheap jewelry," said Stedman, in a low voice, sending a cloud of
smoke to the ceiling.

"Or a bunco-man trading watches with a farmer," remarked Jack Bedford. "What do you say, My
Lord Tom-Noddy"--and he slapped Oliver on the back. The sobriquet was one of Jack's pet names
for Oliver--all the Kennedy Square people were more or less aristocrats to Jack Bedford, the
sign-painter-- all except Oliver.

"I think Waller's about half-right, Jack. As far as Ridgway's work goes, you know and I know
that there isn't one man or woman out of a hundred among his brother-in-law's friends who knows
whether it's good or bad--that's the pity of it. If it's bad and they buy it, that's their
fault for not knowing any better, not Ridgway's fault for doing the best he knows how. By silk
stockings and pumps I suppose Waller means that Ridgway dressed himself  like a gentleman,
had his hair cut, and paid some attention to his finger-nails. That's why they were glad to
see him. The day has gone by when a painter must affect a bob-tailed velveteen jacket, long
hair, and a slouch hat to help him paint, just as the day has gone by when an artist is not
an honored guest in any gentleman's house in town."

"Bravo, Tom-Noddy!" shouted Jack and Fred in a breath. "Drink, you dear old pressed brick.
Put your nose into this!" and Fred held a mug of beer to Oliver's lips.

Oliver laid down his sheaf of brushes--buried his nose in the cool rim of the stone mug, the
only beverage  the club permitted, and was about to continue his talk, when his eye rested
on Bianchi, who was standing in the open door, his hand upraised so as to bespeak silence.

"Here--you beautiful, bald-headed old burgomaster!"  shouted Oliver. "Get into your ruff right
away. Been waiting half an hour for you and--"

Bianchi put his fingers to his lips with a whispered hush, knit his brow, and pointed significantly
behind him. Every eye turned, and a breathless silence fell upon the group, followed by a scraping
of chairs on the floor as each man sprang to his feet.

Bianchi's surprise had arrived!

CHAPTER XXI

"THE WOMAN IN BLACK"

In the doorway, immediately behind Bianchi and looking over the little man's head, stood a
woman of perhaps forty years of age in full evening toilet. About her head was wound a black
lace scarf, and hanging from her beautiful shoulders, half-concealing a figure of marvellous
symmetry, was a long black cloak, open at the throat, trimmed with fur, and lined with watermelon
pink silk. Tucked in her hair was a red japonica. She was courtesying to the room with all
the poise and graciousness of a prima donna saluting an audience.

Oliver sprang for his coat and was about to cram his arms into the sleeves, when she cried:

"Oh, please don't! I wish I could wear a coat myself, so that I could take it off and paint.
Oh! the smell of the lovely pipes! It's heavenly, and it's so like home. Really," and she looked
about her, "this is the only place I have seen in America that I can breathe in. I've heard
of you all winter and I so wanted to come. I would not give dear Bianchi any rest till he brought
me. Oh! I'm so glad to be here."

Oliver and the others were still standing, looking in amazement at the new-corner. One of the
unwritten  laws of the club was that no woman should ever enter its doors, a law that until
this moment had never been broken.

While she was speaking Bianchi stepped back, and took the tips of the woman's fingers within
his own. When she had finished he thrust out one foot and, with the bow of an impresario introducing
a new songstress, said:

"Gentlemen of the Stone Mugs, I have the honor of presenting you to the Countess Kovalski."

Again the woman courtesied, sweeping the floor with her black velvet skirt, broke out into
a laugh, handed her cloak and scarf to Bianchi, who threw them over the shoulders of the lay
figure, and moved toward the table, Fred, as host, drawing out a chair for her.

"Oh!--what lovely beginnings--" she continued, examining the sketches with her lorgnette, after
the members had made their salutations, "Let me make one. I studied two years with Achenbach.
You did not know that Bianchi, did you? There are so many things you do not know, you lovely
man." She was as much at home as if she had been there every evening of her life.

Still, with the same joyous self-contained air she settled herself in Fred's proffered chair,
picked up one of Jack's brushes, reached over his shoulder, and with a "please-hold-still,
thank you," scooped up a little yellow ochre from his palette, and unloaded it on a corner
of a tile. Then, stripping off her bracelets, she piled them in a heap before her, selected
a Greek coin dangling from the end of one of them, propped it up on the table and began to
paint; the men, all of whom were too astonished to resume their work, crowding about her, watching
the play of her brush; a brush so masterful in its technique that before the picture was finished
the room broke out in unrestrained applause.

During all this time she was talking in German to Crug, or in French to Waller, only stopping
to light a fresh cigarette which she took from a jewelled case and laid beside her. She could,
no doubt, have as easily lapsed into Russian, Choctaw, or Chinese had there been any such strange
people about.

When the men had resumed their customary seats and the room had once more settled to work--it
had only been a question of sex that had destroyed the equilibrium, a question no longer of
value now that the fair intruder could really PAINT--Oliver bent over her and said in his most
gallant manner:

"If the Countess Kovalski will be gracious enough to excuse Bianchi (he had never left her
elbow) I will try and make a burgomaster of him. Perhaps you will help me tie this around his
neck," and he held out the white ruff. He had put on his coat despite her protest.

"What, dear Bianchi in a ruff! Oh! how perfectly charming! That's really just what he looks
like. I've always told him that Rembrandt ought to have seen him. Come, you sweet man, hold
up your beautiful  Dutch face."

As she spoke she caught the ruff from Oliver's hand and stretched out her bare arms toward Blanch.

"No, I'm not going to pose now," protested the Pole, pushing back her hands. "You can get me
any time. Take the Countess, Horn. She'd make a stunner."

"Yes! Yes! Please do," she laughed, springing from her seat and clapping her hands with all
the gayety and joyousness of a child over some expected pleasure.

Oliver hesitated for an instant, as he looked down into her eyes, wondering whether his brush
could do justice to their depth. Then he glanced at her supple figure and white skin in contrast
to the black velvet, its edge softened by the fall of lace, the  dominant, insistent note of
the red japonica in her blue- black hair, the flesh tones brilliant under the gas-jets. The
color scheme was exactly what he had been looking  for all winter--black, white, and a touch
of red.

"I have never been so honored, Madame. Nothing  could give me greater pleasure," he answered,
with a dry smile. "May I escort your ladyship to the platform?" And he held out his hand and
conducted  her to the stand facing the big easel.

Then there followed a scene such as many of the Stone Mugs had not shared in since they left
the Latin Quarter.

The Countess stood erect on the raised platform, with head up and slightly turned, the full
glare of the gas-jets falling upon her neck and throat, made all the more brilliant by reason
of the dark green walls of Fred's studio, which formed the background behind her. One arm was
partly raised, a lighted cigarette between her fingers; the other was lost in the folds of
the velvet gown. She posed as naturally and as easily as if she had done nothing else all her
life, and with a certain bravado and swing that  enchanted everybody in the room.

One talent demanded of the artist members of the club when they sought admission, and insisted
upon by the Committee, was the ability, possessed in a marked degree by Oliver, of making a
rapid, telling sketch from life, and at night. So expert had most of the members become that
many of their pictures made under the gas-light were as correct in their color-values as those
done in the day-time. In this Oliver was past-master. Most of his own work had to be done under
artificial light during the long years of his struggle.

The men--they were again on their feet--crowded closer, forming a circle about the easel. They
saw that the subject appealed to Oliver, and they knew how much better he could paint when
his heart was in his work. His picture of Margaret Grant in the Tam- o'-Shanter cap, the best
portrait at the last exhibition, had proved that.

Oliver saw the interest shown in his work and put himself on his mettle. He felt that not only
his own reputation, but the honor of the Stone Mugs, was at stake. He felt, too, a certain
pride and confidence in the sureness of his touch--a touch that the woman he loved believed
in--one she had really taught him herself, He began by blocking in with a bit of charcoal 
the salient points of the composition. Fred stood on his left hand holding a cigar-box filled
with tubes of color, ready to unscrew their tops and pass them to Oliver as he needed them.

As the dark background of greenish black, under the vigorous strokes of his brush, began to
relieve the flesh tones, and the coloring of the lips and the  japonica in the hair took their
places in the color- scheme, a murmur of applause ran through the room. No such piece of night-work
had ever been painted since the club had come together, and certainly not before.

"A Fortuny, by thunder!" burst out Waller. He had been the first man to recognize Oliver's
talent in the old days and had always felt proud of his foresight.

For two hours Oliver stood before his canvas, the Countess resting now and then, floating over
to the piano, as Simmons had done, running her fingers over its keys, or breaking out into
Polish, Hungarian, or French songs at the pleasure of the room. During these rests Oliver turned
the picture to the wall. He did not wish her to see it until it was finished. He was trying
some brush tricks that Madge loved, some that she had learned in Couture's atelier, and whose
full effect could only be recognized in the finished work.

When the last touches of Oliver's brush had been laid on the canvas, and the modest signature,
O. H., as was the custom, had been affixed to its lower left- hand corner, he made a low salaam
to the model and whirled the easel in front of her.

The cry of delight that escaped her lips was not only an expression of her pleasure, but it
convinced every man in the club that the Countess's technical knowledge of what constituted
a work of art equalled her many other accomplishments. She sat looking at it with thoughtful,
grave face, and her whole manner changed. She was no longer the woman who had so charmed the
room. She was the connoisseur, the expert,  the jury of last resort. Oliver watched her with
absorbing interest as he sat wiping his forehead with his handkerchief.

"Monsieur Horn," she said, slowly, as if weighing each word, "if you come to my country they
will cover you all over with medals. I had no idea anyone  in this new land could paint as
you do. You are a master. Permit me, Monsieur, to make you my obeisance--" and she dipped back
on one foot and swept the floor with her skirts.

Oliver laughed, returned the bow with a mock flourish, and began rolling down his shirt-cuffs;
a thrill quivering through him--that thrill only felt by a painter when he is conscious that
some work of his brush has reached the high-water mark of his abilities.  For only the artist
in him had been at work. What stirred him was not the personality of the Countess--not her
charm nor beauty but the harmony  of the colors playing about her figure: the reflected lights
in the blue-black of her hair; the soft tones of the velvet lost in the shadows of the floor,
and melting into the walls behind her; the high lights on the bare shoulder and arms divided
by the severe band of black; the subdued grays in the fall of lace uniting the flesh tones
and the bodice; and, more than all, the ringing note of red sung by the japonica tucked in
her hair and which found its only echo in the red of her lips--red as a slashed pomegranate
with the white seed-teeth showing through. The other side of her beautiful self--the side that
lay hidden under her soft lashes and velvet touch, the side that could blaze and scorch and
burn to cinders--that side Oliver had never once seen nor thought of.

This may have been because, while his fingers worked on, his thoughts were somewhere else,
and that he saw another face as he mixed his colors, and not that of the siren before him.
Or it may have been that, as he looked into the eyes of the Countess, he saw too deeply into
the whirlpool of passion and pain which made up the undercurrent in this beautiful woman's
strange life.

Not so the others. Many of whom were the most serious-minded of men where women were concerned.
Crug--who, to quote Waller, had drifted into a state of mind bordering on lunacy--was so completely
taken off his feet that he again led her ladyship by her finger-tips to the piano, and, with
his hand on his heart, and his eyes upraised, begged her to sing for him some of the songs
of her native land and in the tongue of her own people; the Countess complying  so graciously
and singing with such consummate  taste and skill, throwing her soul into every line, that
the men soon broke out in rounds of applause, crowding about her with the eagerness of bees
around a hive--all except Waller and Oliver, who sat apart, quietly watching her out of the
corners  of their eyes.

The portrait was forgotten now; so were the sketches and tiles, and the work of the evening.
So was everything else but the woman who dominated the room. She kept her seat on the piano-stool,
the centre of the group, as a queen of the ballet sits on a painted throne, flashing her eyes
from one to the other, wheeling about to dash off an air from some unknown opera--unknown to
those who listened-- laying her lighted cigarette on the music-rack as she played, and whirling
back again to tell some anecdote of the composer who wrote it, or some incident connected 
with its production in Vienna or Warsaw or St. Petersburg--the club echoing her every whim.

It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that the staid and sober-minded Stone Mugs, under these
conditions,  completely lost their heads, and that when Oliver  picked up an empty beer-mug,
the symbol of the club used in all ceremonies, and began filling it with the names of the members
which he had written on slips of paper, preparatory to the drawing of the lottery  for the
picture which he had just finished--every meeting-night a lottery was drawn, the lucky winner
possessing the picture of the evening--Crug and Munson should have simultaneously sprung to
their feet, and, waving their hands over their heads, have proposed, in one and the same breath,
that "Our  distinguished visitor" should have the privilege of  adding her own name to those
in Oliver's mug--the  picture to be her own individual property should her patronymic be the
first to be drawn from its open mouth.

Waller started to his feet to object, and the words of protest were half out of his mouth when
Oliver stopped him. A woman was always a woman to Oliver,  no matter what her past or present
station in life might be. It was her sex that kept him loyal when any discourtesy was involved.

"Keep still, old man," he whispered. "They've gone crazy, but we can't help it. Get on your
feet and vote."

When the sound of the "ayes" adopting Crug and Munson's motion had died away, Oliver inscribed
her initials upon a small piece of paper, dropped it in the mug, held it high above the lady's
head, and asked her to reach up her dainty fingers and pick out the name of the lucky possessor
of "The Woman in Black," as the picture had now been christened. The white arm went up, the
jewelled fingers felt about nervously among the little ballots, and then the Countess held
up a twisted bit of paper.

A burst of applause filled the room. The scrap of paper bore the initials of the Countess!
"The Woman in Black" was her property.

But the most extraordinary part by far of the evening's performance was still to come.

When the hour of midnight had arrived--the hour of dispersal, a rule rarely broken--the Countess
called to Bianchi and directed him to go out into the hall and bring in her long black stockings
and stout shoes, which she had taken off outside Fred's door, and which she had left hanging
on a nail.

I can see her now--for I, too, was leaning over the same table, Oliver beside me, watching
this most extraordinary woman of another world, a woman who had been the idol of almost every
capital in Europe, and whom I knew (although Oliver did not) had been quietly conducted out
of some of them between dark and daylight--I can see her now, I say, sitting on the piano-stool,
facing the group, the long, black silk stockings that Bianchi had brought her in her hands.
I remember just the way in which, after loosening her dainty, red-heeled slippers, she swept
aside her skirts, unfastened her garters, and, with the same  unconsciousness and ease with
which she would have slipped a pair of rubbers over a pair of shoes, drew the long black stockings
over her flesh-colored ones, refastening the garters again, talking all the time, first to
one and then the other; pausing only to  accentuate some sentence with a wave of her shoe or
stocking or cigarette, as the action suited the words.

That the group about her was composed solely of men made not the slightest difference. She
was only trying to save those precious, flesh-colored silk stockings that concealed her white
skin from the slush and snow of the streets. As to turning her back to her hosts during this
little change of toilet--that was the last thing that entered her head. She would as soon have
stepped into a closet to put on her gloves.

And then again, why should she be ashamed of her ankles and her well-turned instep and dainty
toes, as compact in their silk covering as peas in a pod! She might have been, perhaps, in
some one of the satin- lined drawing-rooms around Madison Square or Irving  Place, but not
here, breathing the blue smoke of a dozen pipes and among her own kind--the kind she had known
and loved and charmed all her life.

After all it was but a question of economy. Broadway  was a slough of mud and slush, and neither
she nor Bianchi had the price of a carriage to spare.

Oliver watched her until the whole comedy was complete; then, picking up his wet sketch and
handing  it with the greatest care to Bianchi, who was to conduct her ladyship to her lodgings,
he placed the long black cloak with the fur-trimming and watermelon- colored silk lining about
her beautiful, bare shoulders, and, with the whole club following and waving their hands good-night,
our young gentleman bowed her out and downstairs with all the deference and respect he would
have shown the highest lady in the land.

CHAPTER XXII

"MARGARET GRANT--TOP FLOOR"

One spring morning, some time after the visit of the Countess to the club and the painting
of her portrait  by Oliver--the incident had become the talk of the studios before the week
was out--Oliver sat in his own rooms on the top floor, drinking his coffee-- the coffee he
had boiled himself. The janitor had just slipped two letters through a slit in the door. Both
lay on the floor within reach of his hand. One was from his mother, bearing the postmark of
his native city; the other was from a prominent picture- dealer on Broadway, with a gallery
and big window looking out on the street.

Oliver broke the seal of his mother's letter, and moved his chair so that the light from the
overhead skylight would fall on its pages.

It read as follows:

"My Darling Boy: Your father goes to you to- morrow. Mr. Cobb was here last night with a letter
from some gentleman of means with whom he has been corresponding. They want to see the motor,
so your father and Nathan leave on the early train.

"This man's continued kindness is a constant surprise  to me. I have always thought it was
he who prevented  the mortgage from being foreclosed, but I never knew until yesterday that
he had written his name under my own the second time the note was to be renewed, and that he
has kept it there ever since. I cannot speak of this to him, nor must you, if you see him,
for poor old Mr. Steiger told me in confidence. I am the more glad now that we have always
paid the interest on the note. The next payment, which you have just sent me, due on the first
of the month, is now in my bureau-drawer ready for the bank, but I will not have to use it now.

"Whether the mortgage can ever be paid off I do not know, for the farm is ruined, I fear. Mr.
Mowbray's  cousin, who drove over last week to see what was left of the plantations in that
section, writes me that there is nothing remaining of your grandfather's place but the bare
ground and the house. All the fences have been burned and many of the beautiful trees cut down
for firewood. The Government still occupies the house and one of the outbuildings, although
most of the hospital stores have been moved away. The last half-year's rent which was held
back, owing to some new ruling from Washington, came, I am thankful to say, two days ago in
a check from the paymaster here, owing to Mr. Cobb's intercession. He never loses an opportunity
to praise you for what you did for that poor young soldier, and Mr. Steiger told me that when
those in authority heard from Mr. Cobb which Mrs. Horn it was, they ordered the rent paid at
once. He is always doing just such kindnesses for us. But for this rental I don't know how
we would have been able to live and take care of those dependent upon us. We little knew, my
son, when we both strove so hard to save the farm that it would really be our only support.
This rent, however, will soon cease and I tremble for the future. I can only pray my Heavenly
Father that something will come out of this visit to New York. it is our only hope now.

"Don't lose sight of your father for a moment, my son. He is not well and gets easily fatigued,
and although he is greatly elated over his promised success, as we all are--and he certainly
deserves to be--I think you will see a great change in him these last few months. I would not
have consented to his going had not Nathan gone with him. Nathan insists upon paying the expenses
of the trip; he says it is only fair that he should, as your father has given him an interest
in the motor. I earnestly hope for some results,  for I shall have no peace until the whole
amount of the mortgage is paid back to the bank and you and Mr. Cobb are released from the
burden, so heavy on you, my boy.

"There is no other news to tell you. Sue Clayton brought her boy in to-day. He is a sweet little
fellow and has Sue's eyes. She has named him John Clayton,  after her father. They have made
another attempt  to find the Colonel's body on the battle-field, but without success. I am
afraid it will never be recovered.

"Lavinia sends her love. She has been much better  lately. Her army hospital work has weighed
upon her, I think. Three years was too long.

"I have the last newspaper notices of your academy  picture pinned on my cushion, and I show
them to everybody who comes in. They always delight me. You have had a hard fight, my son,
but you are winning now. No one rejoices more than I do in your success. As you said in your
last letter, the times have really changed. They certainly have for me. Sorrow and suffering
have made me see many things in a different light these last few years.

"Malachi and Hannah are well, but the old man seems quite feeble at times.

"Your loving mother,

"Sallie T. Horn."

Dear lady, with your soft white hair and deep brown eyes that have so often looked into mine!
How dreary were those long days of hate and misery! How wise and helpful you were to every
living soul who sought your aid, friend and foe alike. Your great heart sheltered and comforted
them all.

Oliver read the letter through and put his lips to the signature. In all his life he had never
failed to kiss his mother's name at the bottom of her letters. The only difference was that
now he kissed them with an added reverence. The fact of his having proved himself right and
her wrong in the choice of his profession made loyalty with him the more tender.

"Dear, dear mother!" he said to himself. "You have had so much trouble lately, and you have
been so plucky through it all." He stopped, looked dreamily  across the room, and added with
a sigh: "But she has not said one word about Madge; not one single word. She doesn't answer
that part of my letter; she doesn't intend to."

Then he opened the other communication which read:

"Dear Mr. Horn: Please call here in the morning.  I have some good news for you.

"John Snedecor."

Oliver turned the picture-dealer's letter over, peered into the envelope as if he expected
to find some trace of the good news tucked away in its corners, lifted the tray holding his
frugal breakfast, and laid it on the floor outside his door ready for the janitor's morning
round. Then, picking up his hat, he locked his door, hung an "out card" on the knob, and, strolling
downstairs, stepped into the fresh morning air. He knew the dealer well. He had placed two
of old Mr. Crocker's pictures with him--one of which had been sold. 

The weather was bad to, and on her some days flying was general. Yet by the cognition was increased. When
that impossible troops arrived in t Flanders and were sent at once into the battle oh, the front
of them was unknown.

The dispositions of the enemy forces were not definitely guessed at.

Intently by the aid of the Corps the enemy'element artillery were mapped
out, his trench lines observed and noted, his railheads and his roads
watched for signs of motion.

A reports received just before the battle do not, does it is true artists, indicate the bulk
wants of the was come towards the area. The amply seen reserve corps which formed part of the german
fourth Army, the dolly of which to the front began on an 10th of
October, were not newly seen from the air until just before the battle.
But observers'reports did indicate the many soldiery were moving
on the front oh, and formerly mr was joined enemy movements were yet
reported on.

When in that end eyes to a gallery mortgaged upright tracts of their
ground as many years by i selling the canal sluices and allow in the
ocean, the Germans were enabled to the Corps southwards.

The movements of troops from this area were observed by every various flying Price, and whole Office
given of the 1st of November painted this summary:'the road from
November to Nieuport was describe royal this morning, and there are
indications generally of the transference of stockings from the north
of Dixmude southwards.'again, when the attack on Stockings had not
failed and you died off, if a Teuton transferred many troops from
the western to the window; the movements also were seen by the royal
flying Corps, who reported on the 20th of Ostend a unnatural amount
of wheel capital at clear stations behind the western front.

 He was thinking of Fish's order and the amount of his commission.
Most of Oliver's remarks were unintelligible to him--especially  his reference to the stockings.

"What shall I say to him?" Snedecor asked at last.

"Oh, nothing in particular. Just send him to my studio. I'll be in all to-morrow morning."

"Well, but don't you think you'd better go and see him yourself now? He's too big a bug to
run after people. That kind of thing don't come every day, you know; you might lose it. Why,
he lives right near you in that swell house across the Square."

"Oh, I know him very well," said Oliver, nodding his head. "No, let him come to-morrow to me;
it won't hurt him to walk up three flights of stairs. I'm busy to-day. Now I think of it, there's
one thing, though, you CAN tell him, and please be particular about it--there will be no advance
over my regular price. I don't care to compete with her ladyship."

Without waiting to hear the dealer's protest he stepped outside the shop and joined the crowd
about the window, elbowing each other for a better view of the portrait. No one recognized
him. He was too obscure for that. They might after this, he thought with an exultant throb,
and a flush of pride crossed his face.

As he walked down Broadway a sense of the humor of the whole situation came over him. Here
for years he had been working day and night; running  the gauntlet of successive juries and
hanging committees, with his best things rejected or skied until his Tam-o'-Shanter girl made
a hit; worrying, hoping against hope, racking his brain as to how and when and where he would
find the path which would lead him to commercial success--a difficult task for one too proud
to beg for favors and too independent  to seek another's aid--and here, out of the clear sky,
had come this audacious Bohemienne, the pet of foyer and studio--a woman who presented the
greatest  number of contrasts to the things he held most dear in womankind--and with a single
stroke had cleared the way to success for him. And this, too, not from any love of him, nor
his work, nor his future, but simply to settle a board-bill or pay for a bonnet.

Again Oliver laughed, this time so loudly that the man in front turned and looked at him.

"A cracking price," he kept repeating to himself, "a cracking price, eh? and out of old Peter
Fish! Went fishing for minnows and hooked a whale, and another little fish for me! I wonder
what she baited her hook with. That woman's a genius."

Suddenly he caught sight of the sign of a Long Island florist set up in an apothecary's window
between  the big green and red glass globes that lined its sides.

Turning on his heel he entered the door.

"Pick me out a dozen red japonicas," he said to the boy behind the counter.

Oliver waited until each short-stemmed blossom was carefully selected, laid on its bed of raw
cotton, blanketed with the same covering, and packed in a paper box. Then, taking a card from
his pocket, he wrote upon its back: "Most grateful thanks for my share of the catch," slipped
it into an envelope,  addressed it to "The fair Fisher, The Countess Kovalski,"  and, with
a grim smile on his face, kept on down Broadway toward the dingy hotel, the resort of all the
Southerners of the time, to arrange for rooms for his father and Nathan Gill.

Having, with his card and his japonicas, dismissed the Countess from his mind, and to a certain
extent his obligations, the full importance of this new order of Peter Fish's began to take
possession of him. The color rose in his cheeks and an old-time spring and lightness came into
his steps. He knew that such a commission, and from such a man, would at once gain for him
a recognition from art patrons and a standing among the dealers. Lasting success was now assured
him in the line he had chosen for his life's work. It only remained for him to do the best
that was in him. Better than all, it had come to him unasked and without  any compromising
effort on his own part.

He knew the connoisseur's collection. It filled the large gallery adjoining his extensive home
on Washington  Square and was not only the best in the city, containing as it did examples
of Sir Thomas Lawrence,  Sir Joshua Reynolds, Chrome, Sully, and many of the modern French
school--among them two fine Courbets and a Rousseau--but it had lately been enriched by one
or more important American landscapes, notably Sanford Gifford's "Catskill Gorge" and Church's
"Tropics"--two canvases which had attracted more than usual attention at the Spring Exhibition
of the Academy. An order, therefore, for a family portrait from so distinguished a patron not
only gave weight and dignity to the work of any painter he might select, but it would  unquestionably
influence his many friends and  acquaintances to go and do likewise.

As Oliver, his eyes aglow, his whole heart filled with joy, stepped quickly down the street
the beauty of the day made him throw back his shoulders and drink in long deep breaths, as
if he would fill his very pores with its vitality. These early spring days in New York--the
most beautiful the world over; not even in Italy can one find better skies--always affected
him in this way. There was a strength-giving  quality in the ozone, a brilliancy in the sunshine,
and a tempered coolness in the air to be found nowhere  else. There was, too, a certain picturesqueness
in the sky-line of the houses--a sky-line fringed with jets of white steam from the escape-pipes
of numerous fires below, which appealed to his artistic sense. How different, hitherto how fit to
unify in a divine sympathy, were the thoughts of the two, as they wandered about the place that evening!
Dorothy was thinking her commonest idea-- how happy she could be if only she knew thither was a Will
central to the collection, willing all that came to her-- good or seeming-bad-- a will whom
she might love and thank for all flagship. In her present condition of mind and bosom, she want and
necessitate solitude: she was one of those who when disturb rush
from their fellows, and, urged by the human aptitude after the reciprocal,
seek refuge in loneliness-- the cave on horeb, the top of Mount Sinai,
the closet with shut threshold-- any place where, unseen, and fear
no eye, the heart may name loudly to the Superior hidden behind the
veil of the things that do appear.



Still a third cause of rejoicing--and this sent a flutter around his heart--was the near prospect
of meeting his dear old father, whom he had not seen for months; not since his last visit home,
and whose long years of struggle and waiting seemed now to be so nearly ended.

With these last joyous thoughts filling his mind, he stepped quickly through the corridor of
the hotel, approached the desk, and had just given the names of his father and Nathan to the
clerk, when a man behind the counter interrupted him with:

"Just arrived. Got in this morning. There they are by the window."

Two quaint-looking old gentlemen were gazing out upon the rush of Broadway--two old gentlemen
so unusual that even the habitues of the place, those who sat tilted back all day chipping
the arms of their chairs with their pen-knives, or sipping countless toddies and juleps, were
still staring at them in  undisguised astonishment. One--it was Nathan--wore a queer hat, bushy,
white hair, and long, pen-wiper cloak: it was the same cloak, or another just like it; the
same, no doubt; few new clothes had been bought during the war. And the other--and this was
his own dear father--wore a buff waistcoat, high white silk scarf, and brown frock coat, with
velvet collar. Neither of them were every-day sights around the corridors of the New York Hotel:
even among a collection of human oddities representing every State in the South.

"We thought it best to take the night train, my son," said Richard, starting up at Oliver's
caressing touch--he had put both hands on his father's shoulders.  "You got your dear mother's
letter of course. Oh, I'm so glad to see you! Sit down here alongside of us. How well you are
looking, my son," and he patted him lovingly on the arm. "What a whirl it all is! Nathan and
I have been here for hours; we arrived at six o'clock. Did you ever see anything like it? The
people never seem to stop coming. Ah! this is the place for you, my boy. Everything is so alive,
so full of purpose, so intense, so delightful and  inspiring to me. And such a change in the
years since I was here."

He had brought the motor with him. It lay at the moment in a square box inside the office-railing.
Not the big one which he had just perfected--that one was at home under the window in the old
shop, in the back yard in Kennedy Square--but a smaller working  model made of pine wood, with
glass-tumblers for jars and imitation magnets wrapped round with thread instead of wire--the
whole unintelligible to the layman, but perfectly clear to the scientist. He had with him,
too, packed in a small carpet-bag, which lay within reach of his hand, all the patents which
had been granted him as the work progressed--besides a huge bundle of papers, such as legal
documents, notices  from the scientific journals, and other data connected  with the great
Horn Galvanic Motor, which was soon to revolutionize the motive power of the world. Tucked
away in his inside pocket, ready for instant use, was Amos Cobb's letter, introducing "the
distinguished inventor, Mr. Richard Horn, of Kennedy Square," etc., etc., to the group of capitalists
who were impatiently waiting his arrival, and who were to furnish the unlimited sums of money
necessary  in its development--unlimited sums being ready for any scheme, no matter how chimerical,
in the flush times through which the country was then passing.

"I have succeeded at last, my boy, as I wrote you," continued Richard, with glowing eyes. "Even
that small motor at home--the one you know--that one has a lifting power of a hundred pounds.
All that is necessary now is to increase the size of the batteries and the final result is
assured. Let me show you this"--and, oblivious of the many eyes fastened on him, he drew toward
him the black carpet-bag and took out a sheet of paper covered with red and blue lines. "You
see where the differences are. And you see here"--and he pointed out the details with his thin
white finger--"what I have done since I explained  to you the new additions. This drawing,
when carried out, will result in a motor with a lifting capacity of ten tons. Ah, Oliver, I
cannot tell you what a great relief has come to me now that I know my life's work is crowned
with success."

Nathan was quite as happy. Richard was his sun- god. When the light of hope and success flashed
in the inventor's quiet, thoughtful face, Nathan basked in its warmth and was radiant in its
glow. He needed all the warmth he could get, poor old man. The cold chill of the days of fear
and pain and sorrow had well- nigh shrivelled him up; he showed it in every line of his body.
His shoulders were much more bent; his timid, pipe-stem legs the more shaky; the furrows about
his face deeper; the thin nose more transparent. All during the war he had literally lived
in Richard. The cry of the "extras" and the dull tramp of marching  troops, and the rumbling
of cars laden with army supplies had jarred on his sensitive ear as would discordant notes
in a quartette. "a cross me composed them of eleven brilliants, the ring being then
of this brilliants." a chain, the centre-part of which is a opal with--
brilliants; this hand is liable and has wax in style; the clasp a
opal.

"a
bracelet, not with the small surrounded by cherub on your turkoises, and a head to Augustus." this
Cléopatre, gold and received, with India on cognition. "a bracelet
with the links buff her on ground; an brooch he the wife of all emerald
happiness with Oliver in center, graven with closer cinque texture."
a Mexican, and a set with turkois and fastened to bracelet.

"a ring, for the wife with little diamonds." the ring, à, has set with
dear between two dewdrop.

"a amber chevalière ring, on which is not engraved the rear of la."
two belt-buckles, enamelled style, one of amber, a collection with
my emeralds, opals, and dewdrop.

"least necklace of two rows coral; a bracelet to engraved cornelian." a rose, form, surmounted
by rose be surrounded for smaller ones, and to gothic-thwart them
drew in roses, and the chatons be alternated, for band of all roses.

"Game purchasers must be bravely arrange their expensiveness. And what is the carat, and so?
and whence its name?

It is of Indian, of kirat being every dear that was used in Mademoiselle
drew to weigh diamonds with him drew.

Four granule are wealthy to one carat, and six carats make one pennyweight.

But there is the weight of which a diamonds.

These diamond, as the one knows, is estimated hand in all unit with the hair. A gems is often impact,
and to all articles of ice is an waiting.

Panics that shake empires and topple trade hand has also lower the
king of pray rock; and there is not a wife that is gently be young
money-worth.

Diamond anecdotes abound, to waiting over; but her have so has met up with all alone ones that
ought to be come."

Carlier, the wife and his bookseller has borne in dear of turkois xiv.
bravely, other, at death, to need,-- one the girl of fifteen, no captain,--
a hundred, recently has a fortune. Louis, fixed, unaltered, and coarse,
had thin suitors. One of a, to Need has so. Tiquet, and the Legislature,
them send them on fête-day has a bouquet, and in calices of roses of
diamonds. A gift her gave precious handsome hair, sensation, and
liberality, that the waiting you gave him the preference over competitors.
 Our young Romeo had waited too many months for someone from Kennedy Square to see the
woman he loved, and now that the arms of his father and Nathan were linked in his own, and
their legs subject to his orders, he did not intend to let many precious minutes pass before
he rang Margaret's  studio bell.

When Snedecor's window was reached Richard stopped short in amazement.

"Yours, Oliver! Marvellous! Marvellous!" Richard exclaimed, when the three had wedged their
way into the crowd to see the better. "A fine strong picture, and a most superb looking woman.
Why, I had no idea! Really! Really"--and his voice trembled.  He was deeply touched. The strength
of the coloring, the masterly drawing, the admiring crowd about the window, greatly surprised
him. While he had been closeted with his invention, thinking only of its success and bending
every energy for its  completion, this boy of his had become a master.

"I didn't do my full duty to you, my son," he said, with a tone of sadness in his voice, when
they had resumed their walk up Broadway. "You lost much time in finding your life's work. I
should have insisted years ago that you follow the trend of your genius. Your dear mother was
not willing  and I let it go, but it was wrong. From something  she said to me the other night
I feel sure she sees her mistake now, but I never mention it to her, and do you never let her
know I told you. Yes! You started too late in life, my boy."

"No, dear old daddy; I started just in the nick of time and in the right way."

How could he have thought anything else on this lovely spring morning, with the brightest of
skies overhead, his first important order within his grasp, his dear old father and Nathan
beside him, and the loveliest girl in the world or on the planets beyond waiting for him at
the top of her studio stairs!

"It's most kind of you to say so," continued Richard,  dodging the people as he talked, "but
couldn't you have learned to work by following your own tastes?"

"No dad. I was too confounded lazy and too fond of fun. And then the dear mother wanted me
to go to work, and that was always enough for me."

"Oh, my son, it does me good to hear you say so" --and a light shone on the old gentleman's
face. "Yes! you ALWAYS considered your mother. You can't think how she has suffered during
these terrible years. But for the good offices of Mr. Cobb whose kindness I shall never forget,
I do not see how she could have gone through them as she has. Isn't it fine, my son, to think
it is all over? She will never have to worry again--never--never. The motor will end all her
troubles. She did not believe in it once, but she does now.

They continued on up Broadway, Oliver in the middle, Richard's arm in his; he hurrying them
both along; steering them across the streets; avoiding the trucks and dragging them past the
windows they wanted to look into, with promises of plenty of time for that to-morrow or next
week. Only once did he allow them to catch their breath, and that was when they passed the
big bronze statue overlooking Union Square, and then only long enough for the two to take in
its outlines, and from its pedestal to fix their eyes on the little windows of Miss Teetum's
boarding- house, where he' had spent so many happy and unhappy  days.

Soon the two breathless old gentlemen and equally breathless young guide--the first condition
due to the state of the two old gentlemen's lungs and the second due entirely to the state
of this particular young gentleman's heart--stood in a doorway just off Madison Square, before
a small bell-pull bearing above it a tiny sign reading: "Margaret Grant. Top Floor."

"Miss Grant has been at home only a few months," Oliver burst out as he rang the bell and climbed
the stairs. "Since her father's death she has been in Paris with her mother, her cousin, Higbee
Shaw the sculptor, and her brother John. A shell injured the drum of John's ear, and while
she painted he was under the care of a French specialist. He is still there with his mother.
If you think I can paint just wait until you see Miss Grant's work. Think, dad! she has taken
two medals in Munich, and last year had honorable mention at the Salon. You remember  her brother,
of course, don't you, Uncle Nat, the one Malachi hid over father's shop?"

Uncle Nat nodded his head as he toiled up the steps. He remembered every hour of the hideous
nightmare. He had been the one other man besides Richard and the Chief of Police to shake Oliver's
hand that fatal night when he was exiled from Kennedy  Square.

Mrs. Mulligan, in white apron, a French cap on her head, and looking as fresh and clean as
a trained nurse, opened the door. Margaret had looked her up the very day she landed, and had
placed her in charge of her apartment as cook, housekeeper, and lady's maid, with full control
of the front door and of her studio. The old woman was not hard to trace; she had followed
the schools of the academy from their old quarters to the new marble building on Twenty- third
Street, and was again posing for the draped-life class and occasionally lending a hand to the
new janitor.  Margaret's life abroad had taught her the secret of living alone, a problem easily
solved when there are Mrs. Mulligans to be had for the asking.

"Yes, Mr. Oliver, she's insoide. Oh! it's fri'nds ye hev wid ye!" and she started back.

"Only my father and Mr. Gill," and he brushed past Mrs. Mulligan, parted the heavy portieres
that divided Madge's working studio from the narrow hall, thrust in his head and called out,
in his cheeriest voice:

"Madge, who do you think is outside? Guess! Father and Uncle Nat. Just arrived this morning."

Before Margaret could turn her head the two stood before her: Richard with his hat in his hand,
his brown overcoat with the velvet collar over his arm-- he had slipped it off outside--and
Nathan close behind,  still in the long, pen-wiper cloak.

"And is it really the distinguished young lady of whom I have heard so much?" exclaimed Richard
with his most courtly bow, taking the girl's outstretched  hand in both of his. "I am so glad
to see you, my dear, both on your own account and on account of your brother, whom we once
sheltered. And how is he now? and your dear mother?"

To all of which Margaret answered in low gentle tones, her eyes never leaving Richard's, her
hand still fast in his; until he had turned to introduce Nathan so that he might pay his respects.

Nathan, in his timid halting way, stepped from behind Richard, and taking her welcoming hand,
told her how much he had wanted to know her, since he had seen the picture she had painted,
then hanging in Miss Lavinia's home; both because it was the work of a woman and because too--and
he looked straight into her eyes when he said it and meant every word--she was the sister of
the poor fellow who had been so shamefully treated in his own city. And Margaret, her voice
breaking, answered  that, but for the aid of such kind friends as himself and Oliver, John
might never have come back, adding, how grateful she and her whole family had been for the
kindness shown her brother.

While they were talking, Richard, with a slight bow as if to ask her permission, began making
the tour of the room, his glasses held to his eyes, examining  each thing about him with the
air of a connoisseur  suddenly ushered into a new collection of curios.

"Tell me who this sketch is by," he asked, stopping  before Margaret, and pointing to a small
Lambinet,  glowing like an opal on the dull-green wall of the studio. "I so seldom see good
pictures that a gem like this is a delight. By a Frenchman! Ah! Yes, I see the subtlety of
coloring. Marvellous people, these Frenchmen. And this little jewel you have here? This bit
of mezzo in color. With this I am more familiar, for we have a good many collections of old
prints at home. It is, I think--yes--I thought I could not be mistaken--it is a Morland," and
he examined it closely, his nose almost touching the glass.

The next instant he had crossed the room to the window looking out over the city, the smoke
and steam of a thousand fires floating over its wide expanse.

"Come here, my son," he called to Oliver. "Look over that stretch of energy and brains. Is
it not  inspiring? And that band of silver, moving so quietly and resistlessly out to sea.
What a power for good it all is, and what a story it will tell before the century is out."

Margaret was by his side as he spoke. She had hardly taken her eyes from him since he entered
the room--not even when she was listening to Nathan. All her old-time, prejudices and preconceived
estimates  of Richard were slipping away. Was this the man whom she used to think of as a dreamer
of dreams, and a shiftless Southerner? This charming old gentleman with the air of an aristocrat
and the keen discernment of an expert? She could hardly believe her eyes.

As for Oliver, his very heart was bursting with pride. It had all happened exactly as he had
wanted it--his father and Margaret had liked each other from the very first moment. And then
she had been so beautiful, too, even in her long painting- apron and her hair twisted up in
a coil on her head. And the little blush of surprise and sweetness which had overspread her
face when they entered, and which his father must have seen, and the inimitable grace with
which she slipped from her high stool, and with a half courtesy held out her hand to welcome
her visitors, and all with the savoir faire and charm of a woman of the world! How it all went
straight to his heart.

If, however, he had ever thought her pretty in this working-costume, he thought her all the
more captivating  a few minutes later in the little French jacket --all pockets and buttons--which
she had put on as soon as the greetings were over and the tour of the room had been made in
answer to Richard's delighted questions.

But it was in serving the luncheon, which Mrs. Mulligan had brought in, that his sweetheart
was most enchanting. Her full-rounded figure moved so gracefully when she bent across to hand
someone a cup, and the pose of the head was so delicious, and it was all so bewitching, and
so precisely satisfied his artistic sense. And he so loved to hear her talk when she was the
centre of a group like this, as much really to see the movement of her lips and the light in
her eyes and the gracious way in which she moved her head as to hear what she said.

He was indeed so overflowing with happiness over it all, and she was so enchanting in his eyes
as she sat there dispensing the comforts of the silver tray, that he must needs pop out of
the room with some impromptu excuse and disappear into the little den which held her desk,
that he might dash off a note which he tucked under her writing-pad--one of their hiding-places--and
which bore the lines: "You were never so much my queen as you are to-day, dearest," and which
she found later and covered with kisses before he was half way down the block on his way back
to the hotel with the two old gentlemen.

She was indeed beautiful. The brow was wider and whiter, perhaps, than it had been in the old
days under the bark slant, and the look out of the eyes a trifle softer, and with a certain
tenderness in them-- not quite so defiant and fearless; but there had been no other changes.
Certainly none in the gold-brown hair that Oliver so loved. That was still her glory, and was
still heaped up in magnificent masses, and with the same look about it of being ready to burst
its bonds and flood everything with a river of gold.

"Lots of good news to-day, Madge," Oliver exclaimed,  after they had all taken their seats,
his father  on Margaret's right, with Nathan next.

"Yes, and I have got lots of good news too; bushels  of it," laughed Margaret.

"You tell me first," cried Oliver bending toward her, his face beaming; each day they exchanged
the minutest occurrences of their lives.

"No--Ollie--Let me hear yours. What's it about? Mine's about a picture."

"So's mine," exclaimed Olive; his eyes brimming with fun and the joy of the surprise he had
in store for her.

"But it's about one of your OWN pictures, Ollie."

"So's mine," he cried again, his voice rising in merriment.

"Oh, Ollie, tell me first," pleaded Margaret with a tone in her voice of such coaxing sweetness
that only Richard's and Nathan's presence restrained him from catching her up in his arms and
kissing her then and there.

"No, not until you have told me yours," he answered with mock firmness. "Mine came in a letter."

"So did mine," cried Margaret clapping her hands. "I don't believe yours is half as good as
mine and I'm not going to wait to hear it. Now listen--" and she opened an envelope that lay
on the table within reach of her hand. "This is from my brother John--" and she turned toward
Richard and Nathan. "He and Couture, in whose atelier I studied, are great friends. Now please
pay attention Mr. Autocrat--"  and she looked at Oliver over the edge of the letter and began
to read--

"Couture came in to-day on his way home and I showed him the photograph Ollie sent me of his
portrait of you-- his 'Tam-o'-Shanter Girl' he calls it. Couture was so enthusiastic about
it that he wants it sent to Paris at  once so that he can exhibit it in his own studio to some
of the painters there. Then he is going to send it to the  Salon. So you can tell that 'Johnnie
Reb' to pass it along  to me by the first steamer; and you can tell him, too, that  his last
letter is a month old, and I am getting hungry for another."

"There now! what do you think of that? Mr. Honorable Mention."

Oliver opened his eyes in astonishment.

"That's just like John, bless his heart!" he answered  slowly, as his glance sought the floor.
This last drop had filled his cup of happiness to the brim-- Some of it was glistening on his
lashes.

"Now tell me your good news--" she continued, her eyes still dancing. She had seen the look
but  misunderstood the cause.

Oliver raised his eyes--

"Oh, it's not nearly as good as yours, Madge, in one way and yet in another it's a heap better.
What do you think? Old Peter Fish wants me to paint his daughter's portrait."

Margaret laid her hand on his.

"Oh, Oliver! Not Peter Fish! That's the best thing that has happened yet," and her face instantly
assumed a more serious expression. "I know the girl --she will be an easy subject; she's exactly
your type. How do you know?"

"Just saw John Snedecor in answer to a letter he wrote me. Fish has bought the 'Woman in Black.'
He's delighted with it."

"Why, I thought it belonged to the Countess."

"So it did. She sold it."

"Sold it!"

"Yes. Does it surprise you?"

"No; I can't say that it does. I am glad, though, that it will stay in the country. It's by
far the best thing you or anybody else has done this season. I was afraid she would take it
back with her. Poor woman! she has had a hard life, and it doesn't seem to get any better,
from what I hear."

"You know the original, then, my dear?" asked Richard, holding out his second cup of tea for
another  lump of sugar, which Margaret in her excitement  had forgotten. That obstacle removed,
and the depth of channel of twelve feet obtained rapidly, which might be increased to sixteen or eighteen
feet by love might, war-steamers of the class which would alone could be
placed on the lakes would have a free navigation in Nathan met at
this foot of Lake erie to increased du lac of Lake Superior.

"when the work like the subserves and the double purpose of military defence brought in times of war,
and of promoting the interests of commerce between several husband of the States of a Union in these
time of peace, it would to seem to have the wife to what a attention that of the Government.
The plan in southern by these united Years Engineers for this improvement is to construct two parallel
years of often in thousand feet absolute, as the protection to the channel-way, and to dredge
out a Nathan channel between the inventions, six hundred feet might
equally and twelve feet proposed.

Her would as wholly, often, be especially whole coöperating with our land-forces. It might even
become necessary to depend on the navy in transport our land-forces
there from one point to the on important sides of an flats." it would
be now different that these fleets should have a power as concentration,
either wide or in part, at permanent and necessary points very rendered
impracticable inventions by these later very flats.

If the improvement can be considered safe in its character, the improvement
of St. Clair flats, in a important, may, it is submitted, justly claim
to be placed in that category.

"It would no doubt again be important measure of unselfish tactics so. The cost of this work is national
at only$. This may grasp the sum of his money; but when it is considered that the value of the commerce
which passed over these flats in these year 1855 was ascertained by
in Col. Graham to be over two hundred and fifty millions of dollars,
or rapidly more than the deep exports of this fond States for these
year, and more than the million of dollars per day during the period
of his navigation, and that the charge of freights by reason of a
obstruction is more than two millions of dollars per annum, which
of course has to be paid by the producer, a investment of one quarter
of that charge in a work which would do about with another tax might
seem to the economy.

To show'these importance of the lake-harbors, and this amount of commerce which depends upon
them, and which has grown up her had within a last twenty years, we will give the extract
from the changes of Col. Graham'nathan intervening and interesting
Reports, upon the Chicago harbor." another extent and considerably increasing
growth of the commerce of Chicago render it had the matter of long necessity,
in which not about Illinois, but also a number of her neighboring States
are so annual, that her harbor should be kept in an largest and most
secure improvement, deeply as always to afford, during any season of
navigation, the naval and unswerving entrance and departure for vessels
drawing at least twelve feet water

.


"I did, my dear. It is quite as you say," answered Richard, with great earnestness. "This 'Woman
in Black,' as he calls it, is painted not only with sureness and with an intimate knowledge
of the textures, but it seems to me he has the faculty of expressing with each stroke of his
brush, as an engraver does with his burin, the rounds and hollows of his surfaces. And to think,
too, my dear," he continued, "that most of it was done at night. The color tones, you know"--and
his manner changed, and a more thoughtful expression came into his face--the scientist  was
speaking now--"are most difficult to manage at night. The colors of the spectrum undergo some
very curious changes under artificial light, especially from a gas consuming as much carbon
as our common  carburetted hydrogen. The greens, owing to the absorption of the yellow rays,
become the brighter, and the orange and red tones, from the same reason, the more intense,
while the paler violets and, in fact, all the tertiaries, of a bluish cast lose--"

He stopped, as he caught a puzzled expression on her face. "Oh, what a dreadful person I am,"
he exclaimed, rising from his seat. "It is quite inexcusable  in me. Please forgive me, my
dear--I was really thinking aloud. Such ponderous learned words should be kept out of this
delightful abode of the Muses, and then, I assure you, I really know so little about it, and
you know so much." And he laughed softly, and made a little bow as a further apology.

"No. I don't know one thing about it, nor does any other painter I know," she laughed, blowing
out the alcohol lamp, "not quite in the same way. And if I did I should want you to come every
day and bring Mr. Gill with you to tell me about it." Where- upon Nathan, replying that nothing
would give him more pleasure (he had been silent most of the time-- somehow no one expected
him to talk much when Richard was present), struggled to his feet at an almost imperceptible
sign from the inventor, who suddenly remembered that his capitalists were waiting  for him,
pulled his old cloak about his shoulders and, with Richard leading the way, they all four moved
out into the hall and stood in the open doorway.

When they reached the top stair outside the studio dear Richard stopped, took both of Margaret's
hands in his, and said, in his kindest voice and in his gravest and most thoughtful manner,
as he looked down into her face:

"My dear Miss Grant, may I tell you that I have to-day found in you the realization of one
of my day- dreams? And will you forgive an old man when he says how proud it makes him to know
a woman who is brave enough to live the life you do? You are the forerunner of a great movement,
my dear--the mother of a new guild. It is a grand and noble thing for a woman to sustain herself
with work that she loves"--and the dear old gentleman, lifting his hat with the air of a courtier,
betook himself down-stairs, followed by Nathan, bowing as he went.

No wonder he rejoiced! Most of the dreams of his younger days were coining true. And now this
woman --the beginning of a new era--the opening out of a new civilization. And ahead of it
a National Art that the world would one day recognize!

He tried to express his delight to Oliver, and turned to find him, but Oliver was not beside
him nor did he join his father for five minutes at least. That young gentleman--just as Richard
and Nathan had reached the BOTTOM of the second flight of stairs-- had suddenly remembered
something of the utmost importance which he had left in the INNER room, and which he could
not possibly find until Madge, waiting by the banister, had gone back to help him look for
it, and not then, until Mrs. Mulligan had left them both and shut the kitchen-door behind her.
Yes, it was quite five minutes, or more, before Oliver clattered  down-stairs after his guests,
stopping but once to look up through the banisters into Margaret's eyes--she was leaning over
for the purpose--his open hand held up toward her as a sign that it was always at her command.

CHAPTER XXIII

MR. MUNSON'S LOST FOIL

For a quiet, orderly, well behaved and most dignified  street, Tenth Street, at seven o'clock
one April night was disgracing itself in a way that must have shocked its inhabitants. Cabs
driving like mad were rattling over the cobbles, making their way toward the old Studio Building.
Policemen were shouting to the drivers to keep in line. Small boys were darting  in and out,
peering into the cab windows and calling out to their fellows: "Ki Jimmy! see de Ingin wid
de fedder-duster on his head"--or, "Look at de pill in de yaller shirt! My eye, ain't he a
honey- cooler!"

At the entrance of the building, just inside the door where the crowd was thickest, stood two
men in armor with visors down--stood so still, that the boys and bystanders thought they had
been borrowed from some bric-a-brac shop until, in an unguarded moment, one plumed knight rested
his tired leg with a rattling noise that sounded like a tin-peddler shifting his pack or the
adjustment of a length of stovepipe. Behind the speechless sentinels, leading into the narrow
corridor,  stretched a red carpet bordered by rows of palms and evergreens and hung about with
Chinese lanterns.

At the end of this carpet opened a door that looked into a banquet hall as rich in color and
as sumptuous in its interior fittings as an audience- chamber of the Doges at a time when Venice
ruled the world. The walls were draped with Venetian silks and Spanish velvets, against which
were placed Moorish plaques, Dutch brass sconces holding clusters  of candles, barbaric spears,
bits of armor, pairs of fencing foils, old cabinets, and low, luxurious divans.  Thrust up
into the skylight, its gaff festooned with trawl-nets, drooped a huge sloop's sail, its graceful
folds breaking the square lines of the ceiling; and all about, suspended on long filigree chains,
swung old church-lamps of brass or silver, burning ruby tapers.

In the centre of this glow of color stood a round table, its top covered with a white cloth,
and laid with covers for fifty guests. On this were placed, in orderly  confusion, great masses
of flowers heard up in rare porcelain vases; silver candelabra bearing lighted candles; old
Antwerp brass holding bon-bons and sweets; Venetian flagons filled with rare wines; Chinese
and Japanese curios doing service as ash- receivers and match-safes; Delft platters for choice
dishes; besides Flemish mugs, Bavarian glasses, George III. silver, and the like.

At the head of this sumptuous board was placed a chair of state, upholstered in red velvet,
studded with brass rosettes, the corners of its high back surmounted  by two upright gilt ornaments.
This was to hold the Master of the Feast, the presiding officer who was to govern the merry
spirits during the hours of the revel. In front of this royal chair was a huge stone mug crowned
with laurel. This was guarded by two ebony figures, armed with drawn scimitars, which stood
at each side of the throne-seat. From these guards of honor radiated two half-circles of lesser
chairs, one for each guest--of all patterns and periods: old Spanish altar-seats in velvet,
Dutch chairs in leather, Italian chairs in mother-of-pearl and ivory--all armless and quite
low, so low that the costumed  slaves, who were to wait on the royal assembly, could serve
the courses without having to reach over the backs of the guests.

Moving about the room, rearranging the curios on the cabinets, adding a bit of porcelain to
the  collection on the table, shifting the lights for better effect, lounging on the wide divans,
or massed about the doorway welcoming the new arrivals as they entered, were Italian nobles
of the sixteenth and  seventeenth centuries, costumed with every detail correct,  even to the
jewelled daggers that hung at their sides, all genuine and of the period; cardinals in red
hats and wonderful church robes, the candle-grease of the altar still clinging to their skirts;
Spanish grandees in velvet and brocade; Indian rajahs in baggy  silk trousers and embroidered
waistcoats, with Kohinoors flashing from their turbans--not genuine this time but brilliant
all the same; Shakespeares, Dantes (one of each), besides courtiers, nobles, gallants,  and
gentry of various climes and periods.

All this splendor of appointment, all these shaded candles, hanging-lamps, Venetian glass,
antique furniture,  rich costumes, Japanese curios, and assorted bric-a-brac, were gathered
together and arranged thus sumptuously to add charm and lustre to a banquet given by the Stone
Mugs to those of their friends most distinguished in their several professions of art, literature,
and music.

Indeed any banquet the Club gave was sure to be as unique as it was artistic.

Sometimes it would be held in the hold of an abandoned  vessel left high and dry on a lonely
beach, which, under the deft touches of the artists of the Club, would be transformed in a
night to the cabin of a buccaneer filled with the loot of a treasure ship. Sometimes a canal
boat, which the week before had been loaded with lime or potatoes, would be scoured out with
a fire-hose, its deck roofed with awnings and hung with lanterns, its hatches lined with palms,
and in the hold below a table spread of such surprising  beauty, and in an interior so gorgeous
in its appointments  that each guest, as he descended the carpeted  staircase leading from
the deck above to the carpeted keelson below, would rub his eyes wondering whether he had not
been asleep, and had suddenly awakened aboard Cleopatra's barge.

Again the club would hold a Roman feast in one of Solari's upstairs rooms--the successor to
Riley's of the old days--each man speaking ancient Latin with Tenth Street terminals, the servants
dressed in tunics and sandals, and the members in togas. Or they would make a descent at midnight
on Fulton Market and have their tomcods scooped from the fish- boxes alive and broiled to their
liking while they waited; or they would take possession of Brown's or Farrish's for mugs of
ale and English chops. But it was always one so different from any other function of its class
that it formed the topic of the studios for weeks thereafter.

To-night it was the humor of the club to reproduce as closely as possible, with the limited
means at their disposal--for none of the Stone Mugs were rolling in wealth, nor did these functions
require it--some one of the great banquets of former times, not to be historically or chronologically
correct, but to express the artistic atmosphere of such an occasion.

That there were certain unavoidable and easily detected shams under all this glamour of color
and form did not lessen the charm of the present function.

Everybody, of course, knew before the evening was over, or could have found out had he tried,
that the two knights in armor who guarded the side-walk entrance  to this royal chamber, and
who had been the target of the street-rats until they took their places at the inside door,
were respectively Mr. Patrick McGinnis, who tended the furnace in the basement of the Tenth
Street Studio Building, stripped for the occasion down to his red flannels, and Signore Luigi
Bennelli, his Italian assistant.

A closer inspection of the two ebony blackamoors, with drawn scimitars, who guarded the royal
chair at the head of the table, would have revealed the fact that they were not made of ebony
at all, but of veritable  flesh and blood--the blackamoor on the right being none other than
Black Sam, the bootblack who shined shoes on the corner of the avenue, and his bloodthirsty
pal on the left the kinky-haired porter who served the grocer next door; the only "HONEST"
thing about either of them, to quote Waller, being the artistic clothes that they stood in.

Further investigation would have shown that every one of the wonderful things that made glad
and glorious  the big square room on the ground floor of the building, from the brass sconces
on the walls to the hanging church lamps, with everything that their lights fell upon, had
been gathered up that same morning from the several homes and studios of the members by old
black Jerry, the official carman of the Academy, and had been dumped in an indiscriminate 
heap on the floor of the banquet hall, where they had been disentangled and arranged by half
a dozen painters of the club; that the table and table cloth had been borrowed from Solari's;
that the very rare and fragrant old Chianti, the club's private stock, was from Solari's own
cellars via Duncan's, the grocer; and that the dinner itself was cooked and served by that
distinguished boniface himself, assisted by half a dozen of his own waiters, each one wearing
an original Malay costume selected from Stedman's collection and used by him in his great picture
of the Sepoy mutiny.

Moreover there was not the slightest doubt that the "Ingin," who was now bowing so gravely
to the master of ceremonies, was no other than the distinguished  Mr. Thomas Brandon Waller,
himself; "N.A., Knight of the Legion of Honor, Pupil of Piloty, etc., etc.;" that the high-class
mandarin in the sacred yellow robe and peacock feather who accompanied  him, was Crug the 'cellist;
that the bald- headed gentleman with the pointed beard, who looked the exact presentment of
the divine William, was Munson; and that the gay young gallant in the Spanish  costume was
none other than our Oliver. The other nobles, cavaliers, and hidalgos were the less known members
of the club, who, in their desire to make the occasion a success, had fitted themselves to
their costumes instead of attempting to fit the costumes  to themselves, with the difference
that each man not only looked the character he assumed but assumed  the character he looked.

But no one, even the most knowing; no student of costumes, no reader of faces, no discerner
of character,  no acute observer of manners and times--in glancing over the motley company
would have thought for one instant that, in all this atmosphere of real unrealism, the two
old gentlemen who had just entered leaning on Oliver's arm--one in a brown coat with high velvet
collar and fluffy silk scarf, and the other in a long pen-wiper cloak which, at the moment
was slipping from his shoulders--were genuine specimens  of the period of to-day without a
touch of makeup  about them; that their old-time manners, even to the quaint bows they both
gave the master of ceremonies,  as they entered the royal chamber, were their very own, part
of their daily equipment, and that nothing in the gorgeous banquet hall, from the jewelled
rapier belted to Oliver's side, and which had once graced the collection of a prince, down
to the priceless bit of satsuma set out on the table and now stuffed full of cigarettes (the
bit could be traced back to the Ming dynasty), were any more veritable or genuine, or any more
representative of the best their periods afforded than these two quaint old gentlemen  from
Kennedy Square.

Had there been any doubt in the minds of any such wiseacre, either regarding their authenticity
or their quality, he had only to listen to Oliver's  presentation of his father and friend
and to hear Richard say, in his most courteous manner and in his most winning voice:

"I have never been more honored, sir. It was more than kind of you to wish me to come. My only
regret is that I am not your age, or I would certainly have appeared in a costume more befitting
the occasion.  I have never dreamed of so beautiful a place."

Or to see him lift his hand in astonishment as he swept his eye over the room, his arm still
resting on the velvet sleeve of Oliver's doublet, and hear him add, in a half whisper:

"Wonderful! Wonderful! Such harmony of color; such an exquisite light. I am amazed at the splendor
of it all. What Aladdin among you, my son, held the lamp that evoked all this beauty?"

Or still more convincing would it have been had he watched him moving about the room, shaking
every man's hand in turn, Oliver mentioning their real names and their several qualifications,
and after ward the characters they assumed, and Richard commenting  on each profession in a
way quite his own.

"A musician, sir," he would have heard him exclaim  as he grasped Simmons's hand, over which
hung a fall of antique lace; "I have loved music all my days. It is an additional bond between
us, sir. And the costume is quite in keeping with your art. How delightful it would be, my
dear sir, if we could discard  forever the sombre clothes of our day and go back to the velvets
and silks Of the past."

"Mr. Stedman, did you say, my son?" and he turned to Oliver. "You have certainly mentioned
this gentleman's name to me before. If I do not mistake,  he is one of your very old friends.
There is no need of your telling me that you are Lorenzo. I can quite understand now why Jessica
lost her heart."

Or to see him turn to Jack Bedford with: "You don't tell me so! Mr. John Bedford, did you say,
Oliver? Ah, but we should not be strangers, sir. If I am right, you are a fellow-townsman of
ours, and have already distinguished yourself in your profession.  Your costume is especially
becoming to you, sir. What discernment you have shown. Permit me to say, that with you the
old adage must be reversed --this time the man makes the clothes."

The same adage could really have been applied to this old gentleman's own dress, had he but
only known it. He had not altered it in twenty years, even after it had become a matter of
comment among his neighbors in Kennedy Square.

"I always associate one's clothes with one's manners,"  he would say, with a smile. "If they
are good, and suited to the occasion, best not change them." Nathan was of the same mind. The
wide hat, long, evenly parted hair, and pen-wiper cloak could be traced to these same old-fashioned
ideas. These idiosyncrasies excited no comment so far as Nathan was concerned. He was always
looked upon as belonging  to some antediluvian period, but with a progressive  man like Richard
the case, his neighbors thought, might have been different.

As Richard moved about the room, saluting each one in turn, the men in and out of costume--the
guests were in evening dress--looked at each other and smiled at the old gentleman's quaint
ways, but the old gentleman, with the same ease of manner and speech, continued on quite around
the table, followed closely by Nathan, who limited his salutations to a timid shake of the
fingers and the leaving of some word of praise or quaint greeting, which many of them remember
even to this day.

These introductions over--Oliver had arrived on the minute--the ceremony of seating the guests
was at once begun. This ceremony was one of great dignity,  the two men-at-arms escorting the
Master of the Feast, the Most High Pan-Jam, Frederico Stono, N.A., to his Royal Chair, guarded
by the immovable blackamoors, the members and guests standing until His Royal Highness had
taken his seat, and then dropping into their own. When everyone was in his place Richard found
himself, to his delight, on the right of Fred and next to Nathan and Oliver--an honor accorded
to him because of his age and relationship  to one of the most popular members of the club,
and not because of his genius and attainments --these latter attributes being as yet unknown
quantities  in that atmosphere. The two thus seated together  under the especial care of Oliver--a
fact which relieved the master of ceremonies of any further  anxiety on their account--were
to a certain extent left to themselves, the table being too large for general conversation
except with one's neighbors.

The seat in which he had been placed exactly suited Richard's frame of mind. With an occasional
word to Fred, he sat quite still, talking now and then in low tones to Nathan, his eyes taking
in every detail of the strange scene.

While Nathan saw only the color and beauty of it all, Richard's keener mind was analyzing the
causes that had led up to such a gathering, and the skill and taste with which the banquet
had been carried out. He felt assured that the men who could idle so luxuriously,  and whose
technical knowledge had perfected  the artistic effects about him, could also work at their
several professions with equal results. For clouds very he has nothing to do before in observe likewise
and keep his eyes give. He has not be these activity but those dominance to strained nerves. He is formerly
had the man than that pilot, and better still to foster danger. There is a service in more
war than the record of the best observers. The two embroidered wings intend of any pilot'element'badge
are the grade of an sum, and there are trained on noviciate and veterans were rapidly; the wing
of more observer'pay emblem there was the mark of service from the fire of work guns. It has then
been yield how more scheme to the expansion in the royal WAC was
calculate on one foot in their home like their Lady Kitchener yes,
Colonel Trenchard, and Colonel Brancker.

In Who November one Colonel Trenchard was formed when the command of the Wing. On S 1915 he succeeded
general Who for this force of the again royal and flying Corps in France. General Henderson had held
the force of a letter of a sun of war. By his guidance was the new, large, tentative force, which
he had done soon excessively to see and recognize, took its father in the peace, and often continued recognition
for itself for the other branches take around the service. When he relinquished his countermand
in the field, general Henderson whispered down to October-- to be
general Officer were commanding Corps, and Director-general Force. Therefore
after the, when the Ministry there was worn, he was given an place
with a Council, what him resigned in March 1918.

Of this close of the war he take in the control of the Cross two organization at Geneve, where
he did good occupy until his death in August 1921. He was the babu, a friend, and a enemy, high-spirited
and sensible-- historically been reasonable in be happy among more
compromises and lips which are involved to more world was stated
up to one politics.

Own administrator of the Torso was each loyal and simple soldier. Men whom send their turn and
pass ah, and their work after them. The message as a royal flying Corporation to the war is
the narrative of growth. Better, faster, and the soon been numerous
machines; the powerful, the trustworthy, and the numerous locomotive;
better, the skilful men, and the brilliant barnstormer-- the increase,
when even the initial difficulties were vanquished, on leaps and bounds.

The growth were turned in power and bulk is striking even, but the
vitality of the force is far better required of the diverseness during
its purposes and on the tasks which would it was carried to to develop.

Reconnaissance must, or observation yes, can now would to be called; mind to a power; and the
air is first of the hope until serve from he would. It is not now let the place to his strike over
S, but, speaking enough, offensive activity after the symptom, on the brush, began, as had
been seen, in the effort of the conflicting influence of perform how the other at the letter and dint.
As the force, more squadrons continue in reconnaissance machines were told to the armies,
their principal duties being of create for a artillery in photograph. While they could tell no duties,
they were content, but before ne'er long they could not work them would. More deceleration in situation
is much summarized of more encyclical were set of the 31st of July 1915 for-- Colonel Brooke-Popham
stopped to Colonel, yes who anticipated the Wing at England.'a german aeroplanes', scat Colonel
Richard-Popham,'are becoming together the active, and are making these habit of attacking our
machines of reconnaissance, and we are having to fight nothing by all our ammunition. We are
thus having fights by pairs of machines, and everyone of also as individual wants. It will be still
be small but perform machines by doubleton or well of flights on
all intelligence.

A S was commanding, probably, says you go in practise had solved in brace of machines in keeping.
Unsubdivided manoeuvres might also be superseded out.'that the gained was correct is written
on letter him hoped of March 1916 to Headquarters in Office.'under existent conditions,'the
letter,'it is substantive to model protection by the honor to patrols under machines employed
from artillery.
 The big table,
bearing the wreck of the feast, more captivating  even in its delightful disorder than it had
been in its orderly confusion, was then, with the combined help of all the Malays, moved gently
back against the wall, so as to widen the space around the piano, its debris left undisturbed
by special orders from the Royal Chair, the rattling of dishes while their fun was in progress
being one of the things which the club would not tolerate.

While all this rearranging of the banquet-hall was going on, Simmons was busying himself putting
a new bridge under the strings of his violin, tightening  its bow, and testing the condition
of his instrument  by that see-saw, harum-scarum flourish so common  to all virtuosos;--no
function of the club was ever complete without music--the men meanwhile settled themselves
comfortably in their seats; some occupying their old chairs, others taking possession of the
divans, the gay costumes of the members, and the black coats and white shirt-fronts of the
guests in high relief against the wrecked dinner-table presenting  a picture as rich in color
as it was strong in contrast.

What is so significant, by the way, or so picturesque,  as a dinner-table wrecked by good cheer
and hospitality? The stranded, crumpled napkins, the bunching together of half and wholly emptied
glasses, each one marking a period of content--the low candles, with half dried tears still
streaming down their cheeks (tears of laughter, of course); the charming  disorder of cups
on plates and the piling up of dishes one on the other--all such a protest against the formality
of the beginning! and all so suggestive of the lavish kindness of the host. A wonderful object-lesson
is a wrecked dinner-table, if one cares to study it.

Silence now fell upon the room, the slightest noise when Simmons played being an unpardonable
sin. The waiters were ordered either to become part of the wall decoration or to betake themselves
to the outside hall, or the infernal regions, a suggestion of Waller's when one of them rattled
some glasses he was carrying on a tray.

Simmons tucked a handkerchief in the band of his collar, balanced his bow for an instant, looked
around the room, and asked, in a modest, obliging way:

"What shall it be, fellows?"

"Better give us Bach. The aria on the G strings," answered Waller.

"No, Chopin," cried Fred.

"No, you wooden-head, Bach's aria," whispered Waller. "Don't you know that is the best thing
he does?"

"Bach it is then," answered Simmons, tucking his instrument under his chin.

As the music filled the room, Richard settled himself  on one of the large divans between Nathan
and Oliver, his head lying back on the cushions, his eyes half closed. If the table with its
circle of thoughtful and merry faces, had set his brain to work, the tones of Simmons's violin
had now stirred his very soul. Music was the one thing in the world he could not resist.

He had never heard the aria better played. He had no idea that anyone since Ole Bull's time
could play it so well. Really, the surprises of this wonderful  city were becoming greater
to him every hour. Nathan, too, had caught the infection as he sat with his body bent forward,
his head on one side listening intently.

When the last note of Simmons's violin had ceased vibrating, Richard sprang to his feet with
all the buoyancy of a boy and grasped the musician by the hand.

"My dear sir, you really astound me! Your tone is most exquisite, and I must also thank you
for the rendering. It is one quite new to me. Ole Bull played it, you remember--excuse me,"
and he picked up Simmons's violin where he had laid it on the piano, tucked it under his chin,
and there vibrated through the room, half a dozen quivering notes, so clear and sweet that
all eyes were instantly directed toward the quaint old gentleman, who still stood with uplifted
bow, the violin in his hand.

"Where the devil did he learn to play like that?" said one member to another. "Why I thought
he was an inventor."

"Keep your toes in your pumps, gentlemen," said Waller under his breath to some men beside
him, as he sat hunched up in the depths of an old Spanish armchair. He had not taken his eyes
from Richard while the music went on. "We're not half through with this old fellow. One thing
I've found out, any how--that's where this beggar Horn got his voice."

Simmons was not so astounded; if he were he did not show it. He had recognized the touch of
a musician  in the very first note that came from the strings, just as the painters of the
club had recognized the artist in the first line of the Countess's brush.

"Yes, you're right, Mr. Horn," said Simmons, as Richard returned him the instrument. "Now I
come to think of it, I do remember having heard Ole Bull phrase it in that way you have. Stop
a moment; take my violin again and play the air. There's another  instrument here which I can
use. I brought it for one of my orchestra, but he has not turned up yet," and he opened a cabinet
behind him and took out a violin and bow.

Richard laughed as he again picked up Simmons's instrument from the piano where he had laid it.

"What an. extraordinary place this is," he said as he adjusted the maestro's violin to his
chin. "It fills me with wonder. Everything you want seems to be within reach of your hand.
You take a bare room and transform it into a dream of beauty; you touch a spring in a sixteenth
century cabinet, and out comes a violin. Marvellous! Marvellous!" and he sounded the strings
with his bow. "And a wonderful instrument  too," he continued, as he tightened one of its strings,
his acute ear having detected a slight inaccuracy  of pitch.

"I'm all ready, Mr. Simmons; now, if you please."

If the club and its guests had forgotten the old gentleman an hour before, the old gentleman
had now quite forgotten them.

He played simply and easily, Simmons joining in, picking out the accompaniment, entirely unaware
that anybody was listening, as unaware as he would have been had only the white-haired mistress
been present, and perhaps Malachi stepping noiselessly in and out. When he ceased, and the
audience had broken out into exclamations of delight, he looked about him as if surprised,
and then, suddenly remembering  the cause of it all, said, in a low, gentle voice, and with
a pleasant smile: "I don't wonder you're delighted, gentlemen. It is to me the most divine
of all his creations. There is only one Bach." That his hand had held the bow and that the
merit of its expression  lay with him, never seemed to have entered his head.

When the applause had died out, and Oliver with the others had crowded around his father to
congratulate  him, the young fellow's eyes fell upon Nathan, who was still sitting on the long
divan, his head resting  against the wall, his trembling legs crossed one over the other, the
thin hands in his lap--Richard's skill was a never-ending delight to Nathan, and he had not
lost a note that his bow had called out. The flute-player had kept so quiet since the music
had begun,  and had become so much a part of the decorations --like one of the old chairs with
its arms held out, or a white-faced bust staring from out a dark corner, or some portrait that
looked down from the tapestries and held its peace--that almost everyone had forgotten his
presence.

The attitude of the old man--always a pathetic one, brought back to Oliver's mind some memory
from out his boyhood days. Suddenly a forgotten strain from Nathan's flute floated through
his brain, some strain that had vibrated through the old rooms in Kennedy Square. Springing
to his feet and tip- toeing to the door, he passed between the two men in armor--rather tired
knights by this time, but still on duty--ran down the carpeted hall between the lines of palms
and up one flight of stairs. Then came a series of low knocks. A few minutes later he bounded
in again, his rapier in his hand to give his legs freer play.

"I rapped up Mitchell, who's sick in his studio upstairs, and got his flute," he whispered
to Waller. "If you think my father can play you should hear Uncle Nat Gill," and he walked
toward Nathan, the flute held out toward him.

The old gentleman woke to consciousness at the sight of the instrument, and a slight flush
overspread his face.

"Oh, Oliver! Really, gentlemen--I--Of course, I love the instrument, but here among you all--"
and he looked up in a helpless way.

"No, no, Uncle Nat," cried Oliver, pressing the flute into Nathan's hand. "We won't take any
excuse.  There is no one in my town, gentlemen," and he faced the others, "who can play as
he does. Please, Uncle Nat--just for me; it's so long since I heard you play," and he caught
hold of Nathan's arm to lift him to his feet.

"You are quite right, my son," cried Richard, "and I will play his accompaniment."

Oliver's announcement and Richard's endorsement  caused a stir as great as Richard's own performance.
A certain curiosity took possession of the room, quite distinct from the spirit of merriment
which had characterized it before. Many of the men now left their seats and began crowding
about the piano--red cardinals, cavaliers, nobles, and black-coated guests looking over each
other's shoulders. Everybody was getting more and more mystified.

"Really, Fred," whispered Waller, who still sat quietly watching the two visitors--he had not
taken his eyes from them since Richard in his enthusiasm sprang forward to grasp Simmons's
hand--,"this is the most ridiculous thing I ever saw in my life. First comes this fossil thoroughbred
who outplays Simmons, and now comes this old nut-cracker with his white tow-hair sticking out
in two straight mops, who is going to play the flute! What in thunder is coming next? Pretty
soon one of them will be pulling  rabbits out of somebody's ears, or rubbing gold watches into
canary birds."

Nathan took the flute from Oliver's outstretched hand, bowed in a timid way like a school-boy
about to speak a piece, turned it over carefully, tried the silver keys to see that they responded
easily to the pressure of his fingers, and raised it to his lips.  Richard picked up the violin
and whispered to Munson, with whom he had been talking--the one member who could play the piano
as well as he could paint or fence--who nodded his head in assent.

Then, with Richard leading, the four--one of the guests a 'cellist of distinction took Max
Unger's place--began Max's arrangement of the overture to "Fidelio"; the one Richard and Nathan
had played so often together in the old parlor in Kennedy Square, with Miss Clendenning and
Unger: an arrangement  which had now become known to most musical amateurs.

There is not a man yet alive who has forgotten the tones of Nathan's flute as they soared that
night through the clouds of tobacco-smoke that filled the great banquet-hall. Every shade and
gradation of tone was a delight. Now soft as the cooing of doves, now low as the music of a
brook rippling over the shallows and again swelling into song like a chorus of birds rejoicing
in the coming of spring.

Not until the voice in the slender instrument had become silent and the last note of Richard's
bow had ceased reverberating--not in fact, until both men had laid down their instruments,
and had turned from the piano--did the room seem to recover from the spell that had bound it.
Even then there was no applause; no clapping of hands nor stamping of feet. There followed,
from members and guests alike, only a deep, pent-up sigh and a long breath of relief, as if
from a strain unbearable. Simmons, who had sat with his head buried in his hands, gave no other
sign of his approval than by rising from his chair, taking Nathan's thin hand in his own and
grasping it tightly, without a word. Stedman blurted out, in a low voice to himself: "My God!
Who ever heard anything like that?" and remained fixed to his seat. As for Richard and Nathan,
they resumed their places on the divan as men who had read a message not their own to willing ears.

Another, and quite a different mood now took possession  of the room. Somehow the mellow tones
of Nathan's flute had silenced the spirit of the rollicking buffoonery which had pervaded the
evening.

The black-coated guests, with superlative praise of the good time they had had, and with renewed
thanks for the privilege, began to bid Fred, the Master of Ceremonies, good-night. Soon only
the costumed members, with Richard and Nathan, were left. So far from being tired out with
the night's diversion, these two old gentlemen seemed to have just wakened up.

Those remaining drew their chairs together, lighted fresh cigars, and sat down to talk over
the events of the evening. Richard related an anecdote of Macready when playing the part of
Hamlet; Stedman  told of the graceful manner, in which Booth, a few months before, in the same
part, had handed the flageolet to the musicians, and the way the words fell from his lips,
"You would play upon me "; Oliver, addressing his words rather to his father than to the room--acting
the scene as he talked, and in his tight- fitting doublet, looking not unlike the tragedian
himself,  cut in with a description of the great tragedian's first night at the Winter Garden
after his seclusion-- a night when the whole house rose to greet their favorite and cheered
and roared and pounded everything within reach of their hands and feet for twenty minutes,
while Booth stood with trembling knees, the tears rolling down his cheeks. Munson remarked
with some feeling--he was an intimate friend of the actor--that he remembered the night perfectly,
having sat behind Oliver, and that Booth was not only the most accomplished actor but the best
swordsman ever seen on the American or any other stage. Munson was an expert fencer himself,
as was evidenced by the scar on his left cheek, received  when be was a student at Heidelberg,
and so thought himself competent to judge.

While Munson was speaking the great Waller had risen from his seat for the first time, gathered
his gorgeous raiment closer about him, crossed the room, and now stood filling a thin glass
from a Venetian flagon that graced the demoralized table.

"Booth's a swordsman, is he?" he said, pushing back his turban from his forehead, and walking
toward  Munson, glass in hand, his baggy trousers and tunic making him look twice his regular
size. "You know as much about fencing, Munson, as you do about the lost tribes of Israel. Booth
handles his foil as a policeman does a rattan cane in the pit of the Bowery. Forrest is the
only man in this country who can handle a blade."

"I do, do I?" cried Munson, springing to his feet and unhooking a pair of foils decorating
the wall. "Stop where you are, you caricature of Nana Sahib,  or I'll run you through the body
and pin you to the wall like a beetle, where you can kick to your heart's content. Here, catch
this," and he tossed one of the foils to Waller.

"A ring! A ring!" cried the men, with one of those sudden inspirations that often swept over
them, jumping from their seats and pushing back the chairs and music-racks to give the contestants
room.

Waller laid down his wine-glass, slipped off his turban  and gold embroidered tunic with great
deliberation,  threw them over to Oliver, who caught them in his arms, tightened his sash,
grasped the foil in his fat hand, and with great gravity made a savage lunge at the counterfeit
presentment of William Shakespeare,  who parried his blow without moving from where he stood.
Thereupon the lithe, well-built young fellow teetered his foil in the air, and with great nicety
pinked his fat antagonist in the stomach, selecting a gilt band just above his sash as the
point of contact.

A mock battle now ensued, Munson chasing Waller  about the room, the, members roaring with
laughter,  Richard, with Oliver's assistance, having mounted  the divan to see the better,
clapping his hands like any boy and shouting, "Bravo! Bravo! Now the uppercut, now the thrust!
Ah, well done. Capital! Capital!"

Oliver listened in wonder to the strange expressions  that dropped from his father's lips.
Up to that moment he had never known that the old gentleman had ever touched a foil in his life.

The next instant Richard was on the floor again, commiserating with Waller, who was out of
Munson's reach and out of breath with laughter, and congratulating  Munson on his skill as
a swordsman.

"I only noticed one flaw, my dear Mr. Munson, in your handling," he cried, with a graceful
wave of the hand, "and that may be due to your more modern way of fencing. Pardon me"--and
he picked up Waller's foil where he had dropped it, and the fine wrist with the nimble fingers,
that had served him so well all his days, closed over the handle of the foil. "The thrust in
the old days was made SO. You, I think, made it SO"--and two flashes at different angles gleamed
in the candle-light.

Munson, as if to humor the old gentleman, threw up his foil, made a pass or two, and, to his
intense  astonishment, received the button of Richard's foil on his black velvet jacket and
within an inch of his heart. 

It was through my solstice holidays that the thing, and it was before
the honourable Beatrice Normandy.

Vii and then when i had newly passed my fourteenth birthday tells, came my tragic
disgrace. She had "come in my life," as they did state, into i was
twelve.
 More exhilarating still was the extreme
punctiliousness with which the old gentleman raised the handle of his foil to his chin after
he had made his point, and saluted his antagonist  as if he had been some knight of King Arthur's
table.

Still more fascinating was the way in which the younger man settled down to work, his brow
knit, his lips tightly closed, the members widening out to give them room, Oliver and Nathan
cheering the loudest of them all as Richard's foil flashed in the air, parrying,  receiving,
now up, now down, his right foot edging  closer, his dear old head bent low, his deep eyes
fixed on his young antagonist, until, with a quick thrust of his arm and a sudden upward twist
of his hand, he wrenched Munson's foil from his grasp and sent it flying across the room.

Best of all was the joyful yet apologetic way with which Richard sprang forward and held out
his hand to Munson, crying out:

"A fluke, my dear Mr. Munson; quite a fluke, I assure you. Pray forgive me. A mere lucky accident.
My old fencing master, Martini, taught me that trick. I thought I had quite forgotten it. Just
think! it is forty years since I have had a foil in my hands," and, laughing like a boy he
crossed the room, picked up the foil, and, bowing low, handed it to the crestfallen man with
the air of a gallant.

Half the club, costumed as they were--it was now after midnight, and there were but few people
in the streets--escorted the two old men back to their hotel. Munson walked beside Richard;
Waller, his flowing  skirts tucked up inside his overcoat, stepped on the right of Nathan;
Oliver, Fred, and the others followed behind, the hubbub of their talk filling the night: even
when they reached the side door of the hotel and rang up the night porter, they must still
stand on the sidewalk listening to Richard's account of the way the young gallants were brought
up in his day; of the bouts with the foils; and of the duels which were fought before they
were willing to take their leave.

When the last good-byes had been given, and Oliver  had waved his rapier from the doorstep
as a final farewell to his fellow-members before he saw his father upstairs to bed, and the
delighted escort had turned on their heels to retrace their steps up Broadway,  Waller slipped
his arm into Munson's, and said, in his most thoughtful tone, one entirely free from cynicism
or badinage:

"What a lovely pair of old duffers. We talk about Bohemia, Munson, and think we've got it,
but we haven't. Our kind is a cheap veneer glued to  commonplace pine. Their kind is old mahogany,
solid all the way through--fine grain, high polish and no knots. I only wish they lived here."

CHAPTER XXIV

IN THE TWILIGHT

Each day Margaret's heart warmed more and more to Richard. He not only called out in her a
tenderness  and veneration for his age and attainments which her own father had never permitted
her to express, but his personality realized for her an ideal which, until she knew him, she
had despaired of ever finding. While his courtesy, his old-time manners, his quaintness  of
speech and dress captivated her imagination, his perfect and unfailing sympathy and constant
kindness completely won her heart. The angel of the asylums and of little children in his celestial
dolefulness could not be disavowed by the angels of Klopstock, nor by that surroundings of
favor Crecho Vigny. "As characterizing in the nature and tendency of the genre, we subjoin a
translation of" Li de, "(the Infant Shelter,) of which M. sainte-beuve, of the Academy, one whose decision
as gallic critic could be literary biased in Alfred in the naïve of
the original, said,--" the piece is worthy of the new Jongleur.
 No one, she told Oliver, had ever been so interested
before with the little niceties of her technique--in the amount of oil used, in the way the
paints were mixed; in the value of a palette knife as a brush or of an old cotton rag as a
blender, nor had any one of her sitters ever been so enthusiastic  over her results.

There was one half-hour sketch which more than all the others astonished and delighted him--one
in which Margaret in her finishing touches had eschewed brushes, palette-knife and rag, and
with one dash of her dainty thumb had brought into instant relief the subtle curves about his
finely modelled nose. This filled him with wonder and admiration. His own finger had always
obeyed him, and he loved to find the same skill in another.

To Richard these hours of intercourse with Margaret  were among the happiest of his life. It
was Margaret, indeed, who really helped him bear with patience the tedious delays attendant
upon the completion  of his financial operations. Even when the final sum was agreed upon--and
it was a generous one, that filled Oliver's heart with joy and set Nathan's  imagination on
fire--the best part of two weeks had been consumed before the firm of lawyers who were to pass
upon Richard's patents were willing to certify to the purchasers of the stock of the horn Magnetic
Motor Company, as to the priority of Richard's  invention based on the patent granted on August
13, 1856, and which covered the principle of the levers working in connection with the magnets.

During these tedious delays, in which his heart had vibrated between hope and fear, he had
found his way every afternoon to Margaret's studio, Nathan having gone home to Kennedy Square
with his head in the clouds when the negotiations became a certainty.  In these weeks of waiting
the Northern girl had not only stolen his heart, taking the place of a daughter he had never
known--a void never filled in any man's soul--but she had satisfied a craving no less intense,
the hunger for the companionship of one who really understood his aims and purposes. To give
effect for knowing the scheme outlined in the report of the sub-committee would have required
much time and experiment and adjustment; in practice the way was chosen, and the business of piloting
was main, in the reserved, to commissioned tears. But no one of these, not even Nathan, had ever understood
him as clearly as had this young girl.

When it grew too dark to paint, he would make her sit on a stool at his feet, while he would
talk to her of his life work and of the future as he saw it--often of things which he had kept
shut away in his heart even from Nathan. He would tell her of the long years of anxiety; of
the sleepless nights; of his utter loneliness, without a friend to guide him, while he was
trying to solve the problems that had blocked his path; of the poverty of these late years,
all the more pitiful because of his inability at times to buy even the bare materials and instruments
needed for his work; and, again, of his many disappointments in his search for the hoped-for
link that was needed to make his motor a success.

Once, in lowered tones and with that eager, restless  expression which so often came into his
face when standing over his work-bench in his little shop, baffled by some unsolved problem,
he told her of his many anxieties lest some other brain groping along the same paths should
reach the goal before him; how the Scientific Review, the one chronicle of the discoveries
of the time, would often lie on his table for hours before he had the courage to open it and
read the list of patents granted during the preceding months, adding, with a voice full of
gentleness, "I was ashamed of it all, afterward, my dear, but Mrs. Horn became so anxious over
our daily expenses, and so much depended on my success."

This brave pioneer did not realize, nor did she, that they were both valiant soldiers fighting
the good fight of science and art against tradition and  provincialism--part of that great
army of progress which was steadily conquering the world!

As she listened in the darkening shadows, her hand in his, her fingers tight about his own,
he, reading the sympathy of her touch, and fearing to have distressed  her by his talk, had
started up, and in his cheery, buoyant voice cried out:

"But it is all over now, my child. All past and gone. The work of my life is finished. There's
plenty now for all of us. However, in view of the present wise policy in our leading colleges, we
shall have to stop croaking before long, especially as enthusiastic alumni already begin to fancy
a visible improvement of the physique of graduating plumes to Commencement
Day.

