     Ben: "Susan wuz a house woman, to buckra woman like a you to Miss
     Jin. (Susan worked in the house--no field hand--like Lillie works
     for Miss Jin) To my knowing she had three white chillun. Not WANT
     'em. HAB 'em. Boy (you know 'em Lill) near bout clean as them boy
     of Missus! Tief chillun show up so! Woman over-power! My mother
     nuss (nurse.) Get up so high--natural nuss for white people.

"Place they call duh 'Bull Pen.' In 'Bull Pen' thing they call 'PONY'. Got to go on there--on
the 'PONY.'

Lillie: "RIDE you on it, Uncle Ben?"

Ben: "Ain't going ride you on 'PONY'; going RIDE YOU! I stay there look wid DESE HERE (eyes)!
Want you to know one thing--MY OWN DADDY DERE couldn't move! Couldn't venture dat ober-sheer!
(Colored overseer) Everybody can't go to boss folks! (Meaning only house servants could contact
Missus and Massa). Some kin talk it to Miss Bess. Everybody don't see Miss Bess. Kin see the
blood of dat ober-sheer fuss year atter Freedom; and he blood there today! Atter Freedom mens
come from French Broad and you know the colored people--we go there whey (where) they music.
Agrippa--daddy name Parrish--Redmond one he child outside. (Outside chillun are those not born
to a man's legal wife) He say, to gal, 'Go that barn!' YOU GO. You could yeddy him SLAP cross
dat creek! When fowl crow (daylight) and you yeddy him SQUALL, you best git to flat! I stand
dere and my Daddy HAVE to stand dere and see! Josh Ward from French Broad--hundred mile away.
(Boss Massa 'summering it' in mountains) and negro over seer--just fresh out of Africa TURNED
LOOSE. White obersheer a little different for one reason! White obersheer want to hold his
job. (On Waccamaw--and same true of all south as all know--white overseers worst kind of 'White
trash'--respected less by negroes than by whites) Nigger obersheer don't care too much. He
know he going stay on plantation anyhow.

"Now, dater, I tell you bout the loom and weaving next time!"

  And we left Uncle Ben Horry--age 87
    Murrells Inlet, S.C.
    August 1937.

to go on 'to the Schoolfield house and cook supper for a house-party. This week he stepped
up to Con-o-way. Says he had to walk it twice a week--formed the habit when he was on old river
Steamer Burroughs and had to walk up to Conway Monday and back home Saturday. About thirty
miles (or more from his place) to Conway. At 87 he still takes this little exercise almost
weekly. Having such a struggle holding on to his land. All the lawyers saying 'sign here' and
trying to rob him! Poor Uncle Ben needs desperately a Massa to help him out with his land.
Not many Uncle Ben's left to be robbed--

(told that the cruel negro overseer was shot down after Freedom--blood still on ground (according
to Uncle Ben) because he led Yankees to where silver, etc., was buried. Have heard story from
other old livers.)

  Project # 2570
  Mrs. Genevieve W. Chandler,
  Murrell's Inlet, S.C.
  Georgetown county.

  Ex Slave Story.

  UNCLE BEN HORRY

Uncle Ben and his wife, aunt Stella, live in their two-room, white-washed cabin that sits sideways
to the King's Highway, which Uncle Ben always calls 'the King Road,' near Murell's Inlet, S.C.
Paving and straightening this old King's Road, now US 17, has put the two old people in the
world. Around the cabin lie the fourteen and three quarter acres that were paid for by Uncle
Ben and his father, six or eight acres cleared, the rest woodland. Uncle Ben earns a living
by gathering oysters from the Inlet's waters, opening and roasting the oysters for white visitors.
Uncle Ben is a great walker. He walks to Conway, the county seat of Horry (Murrell's Inlet
is situated on the line between Horry and Georgetown counties), a distance of approximately
thirty miles depending on whether one sticks to the paved highway or takes short cuts through
the woods, in preference to riding. One day he had walked to Conway and back by eleven o'clock
in the morning. Uncle Ben's scrappy conversation will tell how he earns his bread, fears and
fights 'the Law', provides for Stella's future, and works for and honors white folks. Brookgreen,
which he mentions as the plantation on which he was born and raised, is an open-air museum,
donated to South Carolina by A.M. Huntingdon, and visited by thousands of tourists. (=See US17,
Tour 1=).

"I the oldest liver left on Waccamaw Neck that belong to Brookgreen, Prospect, (now Arcadia),
Longwood, Alderly Plantations. I been here! I seen things! I tell you. Thousand of them things
happen but I try to forget 'em. Looker!" He pointed to what appeared to be primeval forest
in front of his battered little porch. "That woods you see been Colonel Josh Ward's taters
patch. Right to Brookgreen Plantation where I born. My father Duffine (Divine) Horry and my
brother is Richard Horry. Dan'l and Summer two both my uncle. You can put it down they were
Colonel Ward's musicianer. Make music for his dater (daughter) and the white folks to dance.
Great fiddlers, drummers. Each one could play fiddle, beat drum, blow fife. All three were
treat with the same education. You know, when you going to do anything for them big people
you got to do it right. Before time (formerly) they danced different. Before strange city people
fetched different steps here. But, then, they could use they feet all right!

"My father fore he dead been the head man for old Colonel Josh Ward. Lived to Brookgreen. They
say Colonel Ward the biggest rice man been on Waccamaw. He start that big gold rice in the
country. He the head rice Cap'n in dem time. My father the head man, he tote the barn key.
Rice been money dem day and time. My father love he liquor. That take money. He ain't have
money but he have the rice barn key and =rice= been money! So my father gone in woods (he have
a head, my father!), take a old stump, have 'em hollow out. Now he (the stump) same as mortar
to the barn yard. And my father keep a pestle hide handy. Hide =two= pestle! Them pestle make
outer heart pine. When that pestle been miss (missed), I wuzn't know nothing! The way I knows
my age, when the slavery time war come I been old enough to go in the woods with my father
and hold a lightard (lightwood) torch for him to see to pestle off that golden rice he been
tote out the barn and hide. =That= rice he been take to town Sat'd'y when the Colonel and my
father go to get provision like sugar, coffee, pepper and salt. With the money he get when
he sell that rice, he buy liquor. He been hide that sack o' rice fore day clean (daylight)
in the prow of the boat and cover with a thing like an old coat. I members one day when he
come back from town he make a miss (step) when he onloading and fell and broke he jug! The
Big Boss see; he smell; and he see WHY my father make that miss step; he already sample that
liquor! But the Boss ain't say too much. Sat'd'y time come to ration off. Every head on the
Plantation to Brookgreen line up at smoke-house to draw he share of meat and rice and grits
and meal. (This was fore my father been pint (appointed) head man. This when they had a tight
colored man in that place by name Fraser. They say Fraser come straight from Africa). Well,
Sat'd'y when time come to give my father he share of rations, the headman reach down in the
corner and pull out a piece of that broke whiskey jug and put on top my father rations where
all could see! Colonel Ward cause that to be done to broke him off from that whiskey jug. My
father was a steady liquor man till then and the Boss broke him off.

"Slavery going in. I members Marse Josh and Miss Bess had come from French Broad (Springs)
where they summered it. They brought a great deal of this cloth they call blue drilling to
make a suit for every boy big enough to wear a suit of clothes and a pair of shoes for every
one. I thought =that= the happiest 'set up' I had in boyhood. Blue drilling pants and coat
and shoe. And Sund'y come we have to go to the Big House for Marse Josh to see how the clothes
fit. And him and Miss Bess make us run races to see who run the fastest. That the happiest
time I members when I wuz a boy to Brookgreen.

"Two Yankee gun boats come up Waccamaw river! Come by us Plantation. One stop to Sandy Island,
Montarena landing. One gone Watsaw (Wachesaw landing). Old Marse Josh and all the white buckra
gone to Marlboro county to hide from Yankee. Gon up Waccamaw river and up Pee Dee river, to
Marlboro county, in a boat by name Pilot Boy. Take Colonel Ward and all the Cap'n to hide from
gun boat till peace declare. I think Pilot Boy been a rear-wheeler. Most boats like the Old
Planter been side wheeler.

"They say the Yankee broke in all the rice barn on Sandy Island and share the rice out to colored
people. The big mill to Laurel Hill been burn right den. That the biggest rice mill on Waccamaw
river. Twuzn't the Yankee burn dem mill. Dese white mens have a idea the Yankee mean to burn
dese mill so they set 'em afire before the Yankee come. Nothing left to Laurel Hill today but
the rice mill tower. That old brick tower going to BE there. Fire can't harm 'em.

"The worst thing I members was the colored oberseer. He was the one straight from Africa. He
the boss over all the mens and womens and if omans don't do all he say, he lay task on 'em
they ain't able to do. My mother won't do all he say. When he say, 'You go barn and stay till
I come,' she ain't do dem. So he have it in for my mother and lay task on 'em she ain't able
for do. Then for punishment my mother is take to the barn and strapped down on thing called
the Pony. Hands spread like this and strapped to the floor and all two both she feet been tie
like this. And she been give twenty five to fifty lashes till the blood flow. And my father
and me stand right there and look and ain't able to lift a hand! Blood on floor in that rice
barn when barn tear down by Huntingdon (A.M. Huntingdon). If Marse Josh been know 'bout that
obersheer, the oberseer can't do 'em; but just the house servant get Marse Josh' and Miss Bess'
ear. Them things different when my father been make the head man. What I tell you happen fore
Freedom, when I just can remember.

"Father dead just before my mother. They stayed right to Brookgreen Plantation and dead there
after they free. And all they chillun do the same, till the Old Colonel sell the plantation
out. Where we going to? Ain't we got house and rations there?

"How many chillun I got? Lemme see. Lemme see how many head of chillun. You, Stella! Help me
now! Don't let me tell the Missis wrong. Charles Henry, thirty eight, dere in New York. Ben
Horry--I gie' 'em directly!" (Lifting cap and scratching high forehead and gray wool). "Twenty
four. I going to give you all I got! All I know about! Bill Horry, that's a boy, he twenty.
Dinah, that's a gal, twenty five. Christine, she bout twenty. Mary Horry, I would say fifteen.
When the last war come, the last war deputize them boy and take 'em way up North and the gals
follow, trail 'em on to New York. That the war when you can't get no sugar and have to put
candy in your coffee.

"How old I is?" Slowly and deliberately "December 13th., 1852. Eighty five years or more. When
my mother dead to Brookgreen I would say I 'bout thirty three year old.

"After Freedom, from my behavior wid my former owner, I wuz pinted (appointed) head man on
Brookgreen Plantation. By that put drop in my hand (getting the drop on others). When kennel
been dug out (canal dug) from the Oaks Plantation to Dr. Wardie Flagg house, I wuz pint (appointed)
head man. Take that down, Missis. Kennel (canal) cut 1877. Near as I kin, I must task it on
the kennel (canal) and turn in every man's work to Big Boss. That kennel (canal) bigger than
one Mr. Huntingdon dig right now with machine.

"Missus, slavery time people done something."

Uncle Gabe Lance, born on Sandy Island the first year of the Civil War, a visitor at Uncle
Ben's: "Yes sir. All them rice field been nothing but swamp. Slavery people cut kennel (canal)
and dig ditch through the raw swamp. All these fields been thick woods. Ditching man task was
ten compass."

Uncle Ben continues:

"Storm? Ain't I tell you I BEEN here? Yes, sir. More than one storm I live through! Been through
the Flagg storm. Been turn over twice outside there in the sea. One time been have the seine.
Been rough. Have weather. And the breakers take the boat. I swim till I get the rope hold.
Two men on the shore have the rope end of the seine rope and I hold to that and that how I
save THAT time.

"Member another time. Had a boat full of people this last go 'round. Wuz Miss Mary, he aunty
and the lawyer. I take them fishing outside in oshun. Been in the Inlet mouth. Come half way
to Drunken Jack Island. Breaker start to lick in the boat! I start to bail! Have a maters (tomatoes)
can for bail with. And that been danjus (dangerous); have too much women in there; dey couldn't
swim like a man. And it happen by accident, when the boat swamp and full with water, our FEET
TOUCH BOTTOM. When he (the boat) turn over, I didn't aim to do no thing but swim for myself.
Wasn't able to help nobody. But here out feet touch bottom. Only an accident from God!

"One time again I swamp outside, 'tween Georgetown and Charleston. Try to bail. Swim with one
hand, hold boat with the other. Roughest time I ever see 'cause it been cold wedder (weather).
Old before-time yawl boat, carry eight oar, four to each side. Young man then; 1877. After
the wedder (weather) surrender, we we gone back in dere and find cork going up and down and
save us net and all!

"When the Flagg storm been, 1893, I working for Ravanel and Holmes. I was taken up in that
storm in a steamer boat. Leave Charleston generally about five in morning. That trip never
reach Georgetown till nine that night. Meet a man on that trip got he wife hug to mast in a
little kinder life boat. Had he two chillun; rope wrap 'em to that mast. Save man and wife
and chillun and gone back and save he trunk. After that they quit call me 'Ben'; they call
me 'Rooster'.

"After Flagg storm, Colonel Ward take me and Peter Carr, us two and ah horse, take that shore
(follow the ocean shore line) to Little River. Search for all them what been drowned. Find
a trunk to Myrtle Beach. Have all kinder thing in 'em; comb for you hair, thing you put on
you wrist. Find dead horse, cow, ox, turkey, fowl--everything. Gracious God! Don't want to
see no more thing like that! But no dead body find on beach outside Flagg family. Find two
of them chillun way down to Dick Pond what drownded to Magnolia Beach; find them in a distance
apart from here to that house. Couldn't 'dentify wedder Miss or who. All that family drown
out because they wouldn't go to this lady house on higher ground. Wouldn't let none of the
rest go. Servant all drown! Betsy, Kit, Mom Adele! Couldn't 'dentify who lost from who save
till next morning. Find old Doctor body by he vest stick out of the mud; fetch Doctor body
to shore and he watch still aticking. Dr. Wardie Flagg been save hanging to a beach cedar.
When that tornado come, my house wash down off he blocks. Didn't broke up.

"Religion! Reckon Stella got the morest of dat. I sometimes a little quick. Stella, she holds
one course. I like good song. One I like best?"

  'Try us, Oh Lord,
  And search the ground
  Of every sinful heart! (Uncle Ben stopped to think).
  What 'eer of sin
  In us be found
  Oh, bid it all depart!'

"Reason I choose that for a favorite hymn, I was to Brookgreen doing some work for Dr. Wardie
Flagg and I had to climb as high as that live oak tree, and I fell high as that tree! I lay
there till I doze off in sleep. And I tell you what happen to me curious. While I was sleep
I seen two milk white chickens. You know what them two white fowl do? They gone and sit on
my mother dresser right before the glass and sing that song. Them COULD sing! And it seem like
a woman open a vial and pour something on me. My spiritual mother (in dem day every member
in the church have what they call a spiritual mother) say, 'That not natural fowl. That sent
you for a token.' Since that time I serve the choir five or six years and no song seem strange
to me since that day. God ain't ax about you color; God ax about you heart.

"Make my living with the ister (oyster). Before time (formerly) I get seventy five cents a
bushel; now I satisfy with fifty cents. Tide going out, I go out in a boat with the tide; tide
bring me in with sometimes ten, sometimes fifteen or twenty bushels. I make white folks a roast;
white folks come to Uncle Ben from all over the country--Florence, Dillon, Mullins--every kind
of place. Same price roast or raw, fifty cents a bushel.

"I bout to quit up with sell. All the lawyer. Turn all my papers over to Mr. Burris. I got
too much of paper in that Con-o-way. Court House. Got more paper in there than the house worth!
Have to step to Con-o-way all the time. Struggle and starve myself out for these fifteen acres.
Thirty miles to Con-o-way. Thirty miles back by the course I travels. All them tricky mens
try to go and get old Ben's land sign to 'em. That's the mainest thing take me to Con-o-way
every week. They all talk so sugar mouth till my name down; then when my name write is another
thing. When I in too much trouble, I just has to step up to Con-o-way and see Mr. Burris. He's
a good man.

"They try to mix old Ben up in this whiskey business. It look too brutish to me.

"Missis, I want to tell you all I kin but the old man punish with this bone felom (felon).
Worse'n I ever been punish in all my eighty five year. Crab bite 'em and ister (oyster) cut
'em (hand). Woman die and bury Sunday have hand just like this. If you say so, I'll go to doctor.
Don't want no blood poison. He (bone felon) did act like he trying to dry up. I tie pea leaf
on 'em. Can't put my hand to my head."

The next day Uncle Ben was found with the doctor's white bandage very muddy. Uncle Ben had
gotten out of bed to go get oysters and even the bone felon did not stop him. Uncle Ben is
still hale and hearty, having triumphed over the bone felon, and is one of the noted characters
of that region. I been want to go to town wid you--dat all right daughter. (He pronounces it
Dater--long Italian 'A') Chillun, ain't find duh plum, enty? Dem Sandy Island people come and
clean the tree. Too sorry wonneh ain't get them plum!

"Stella gone in creek fishing. Him and Lula gone--Lula McCoy. You say me?" (To neighbor walking
up) "Four men been here load they car up wid hand. How come you ain't gone to the bacco?" (To
work in the tobacco fields in truck sent to find hands)

Pauline Pyatt: "If they ain't pay my price, I ain't going leave home. I ain't gone for 75¢
a day. Feenie Deas gone yestiddy."

Uncle Ben: "Near bout blind. Couldn't see out no eye nor nare (neither) one o' my eye. Doctor
put sumptin in 'em do me too much o' good. How I is? Fall out? Deth come I fix! Don't know
bout you!"

Pauline: "I fix!"

Mary Gary: "You fix, Uncle Ben?"

Uncle Ben: "I gwine fix!"

Pauline: "You ain't fix?"

Uncle Ben: "I fix all right! I going fudder dan duh grave!"

Pauline: "I been Tarbox." (To Mr. Tarbox)

Uncle Ben: "Down by Gallie?" (Gallie's house)

Pauline: "I ain't see nobody. What you see?"

Uncle Ben: "Ain't see nobody tall--tall--."

Pauline: "Alice! I see Alice!"

Uncle Ben: "Ain't see nobody else?"

Pauline: "Nobody else!"

Uncle Ben: "Nobody else?"

Pauline: "Nobody else. She by herself!"

<tb>

Uncle Ben Reminisces

"Fore freedom? Fore freedom? Well now, fore freedom we were treated by our former owners I
will say good--cording to situation of time. Every year when Massa and Missus gone mountains,
they call up obersheer (overseer) and say, 'Don't treat them anyway severe. Don't beat them.
Don't maul them.' (Mr. Heminingway been severe.)

"Anybody steal rice and they beat them, Miss Bessie cry and say, 'Let 'em have rice! My rice--my
nigger!'

"Brookgreen and Springfield every Sunday morning, every gal and the young one must dress up
and go to the yard and Miss Bessis give 'em candy. Don't want too much o' beating. Glad to
see young women dance. But some cruel to the colored. Some on 'Prospect,'--'Hermitage'--and
'Woodland' treat all right.

"I know the Yankee boat come to Inlet and went to Oaks sea-shore with load of cotton. Band
of our sojer gone--(Rebs--'OUR sojer!), and Yankee sojer come off in a yawl boat and our sojer
caught two of them men and they hang that man to Oaks sea-shore. And when the Yankee find out--do
my Lord! A stir been! A stir here! Shell clean to Sandy Island! Knock hole through the sick-house
(at Brookgreen!) Pump! Well, ain't it? Brick work pump. Well. Handle. You turn! Turn. One bucket
gone up; one gone down. Ward take care of his nigger, sho! Best man own slave! Ward and Ploughdon
sho treat they nigger right! Live 'Laurel Hill.'

"Ward had on Prospect and Brookgreen. You know what I see? Right there to Oaks sea-sho after
them people done that murdering with that man? Take all the slave, get on flat and gone out
way of shell. Gone sand hole. Take all the people from Brookgreen and Springfield--and carry
dem to Marlboro. Boat tow flat. Carmichael came through and established the freedom through
here. They come back from Marlboro where they refugee to and Maham Ward come back on the flat.
And this Ward, share out the rice--broke open barn. We people? Anything like a silver, bury
right there in that garden! Right to Brookgreen garden, what Hontington got now. All Ward thing
bury there. Them old time people kill you--you meddle them thing. Cry out, 'Massa Ting!' You
better let 'em stay there!

"After Freedom Miss Bessie gone to she house in Charston--Rutledge Street Charston. And you
could see way out in ocean.

"My fadder--him and Uncle Dan'l and Uncle Summer uster been fiddler. Gone all round when the
white people gone to Prospect to ball and sich as that. Dem white people didn't treat you so
brutish! Dem obersheer!" (Aside) "Wonder Christ sake why Lula stay out that creek so long!"

Pauline: "Fine season for corn!"

Ben: "Sho is!"

(Uncle Ben keeps a little grocery and fruit for sell. Customer comes)

"Missus, Take twenty cent out a dollar."

Pauline: "My grand-mother in that storm. They leave that Thursday. I been to Oaks. When Flagg
storm wuz. Richmond come off Magnolia beach to Oaks Plantation and get the washing--the missus
clean clothes. Had to swim the horse off the beach to get the clothes. I been on the beach
Thursday--and cousin Joshuaway. Pony Myers daughter born in Brookgreen street day of storm.
Pony Myers wife name Adele. Marse Arthur had one little twin. Joshua Stuart and Ben find dem
to the end of Myrtle Beach. Arthur twin baby--bout that high--little walking chillun. Look
how curious thing is! Them two chillun drown and find to the foot of Myrtle Beach! (fifteen
or twenty miles north). Find Tom Duncan mother. Find Francis mother--Francis Gadsden. Doctor
Ward pa--find him by duh vest. Vest sticking out duh mud. Watch going. My grand-mother was
keep a walking from door to door.

"Find a mer-maid and kept to Magnolia." (Pauline said, 'mere-maid') "Doctor Ward and dem shut
'em up a month. Mer-maid. Had a storm ball. Keep a turning round. Keep a telling him (Dr. Arthur)
storm coming. He wouldn't b'lieve 'em. (Barometer--called by Uncle Isaac's wife, gatekeeper
at Brookgreen, chronometer.) He wouldn't b'lieve. And a cussing man! All the time cuss! Mere-maid
got a forked tail just like shark. From here down (illustrating by pantomine) all blue scale
like a cat-fish. Pretty people! Pretty a white woman as you ever lay your eye on."

Ben: "Pretty, enty?"

Pauline: "Dem stay in sea. Dey walk--slide long on tail." (twisting from her waist to illustrate.)
Pretty. From they waist down to tail blue scale. You got a bathing house on beach. Leave bread
in there. They sho eat bread.

"Marse Allard say top of the barn fly off. Cat jump and on it! And horse too. And he jump too
and tide bring 'em to Brookgreen.

"Joshuaway Stuart been plantation carpenter. He made one box for the twin what drown and Colonel
Mortimer bring one from Georgetown."

(Aunt Stella and Lula arriving from fishing trip)

"What ketch?"

Lula: "Get some catty!" (cat-fish) "Mary, you dress down!"

Mary: "I gwine ketch me a fellow! (Looking in bucket) Gosh! Did got a good mess!"

Lula: "Little fellow."

Mary: "Rather eat them than large one."

Pauline: "What yinnah nuse for bait?"

Lula: "Swimp."

Pauline: "How you catch 'em?"

Lula: "Take a crocus and dip 'em up."

Pauline: "I gwine try to-morrow."

Lula: "To-morrow been Sundy! How old I is? Have to put a guess on 'em. Bout fifty I guess.
Flagg storm? That big one? When the storm wuz, I wuz seven year old."

(Discuss Reb time and Flagg storm.)

Pauline: "Yes. Wind bring young Allard in to Uncle Joshuaway Stuart field right down there
where Cindy Poinsett now. Joshuaway been Cindy Pa.

"Doctor Ward shut that mere-maid up. He been in that! When that storm wuz, he wuzn't old. I
go there now and talk bout that storm and he eye get full o' water. Looker his Papa clothes.
Got 'em all pack in trunk. I never shee 'um court myself. Every time I shee 'um with a crowd
o' man.

"Long as he have mere-maid shut up, it rain! People gone there to look at 'em. Long as keep
'em shut up it rain. That time rain thirty days. That just fore Flagg storm." (Looking toward
creek) "Yonder Stella, wonneh, now!"

(Uncle Ben gave each white child a little cake--then gave, from his hand, hunks of corn bread
to each colored woman.)

     Conversation taken down on Uncle Ben Horry's porch where he sat
     awaiting the return of Aunt Stella who had gone 'in the creek' to
     'catch a mess o' fish.' Murrells Inlet, S.C. June 15, 1937.

  Project 1655
  Genevieve W. Chandler
  Georgetown County, S.C.

  FOLKLORE

  (VERBATIM)
  MISS GEORGIE AT WOODLAND
  EX-SLAVE STORY

"He was a full-blooded man--the Cap'n. Didn't disgrace. He put goat on Goat Island. Money was
bury to Goat Island. People after people been sent. I dinnah know wedder they find or no.

"Mack McCosky was sent by the State to fetch molasses, meal and hominy and goat on Goat Island.
He can't tell you! People can't know sumpin when they ain't born!

"After de war 'e come back and take into big drinkin' and was 'em (waste them) till 'e fall
tru. He been fell tru wid his money (lost his property). Didn't bury so destent (decent).

"We smaller one didn't have chance to go to war. My Daddy have for go. Have to go ditch and
all and tend his subshun. His subshun was waste and steal. Paris! He the man control all the
Buckra ting. And, by God, he go and show Yankee all dem ting! Ole Miss git order to have him
kill and don't harm none! She ain't one to see him tru all that thousand head o' nigger for
get 'em.

"They come have big dinner. Cap'n come from Muldro. (Marlboro). Drum beatin' little one dancin'.
Gone back to Muldro. (Maham Ward and these udder come from Muldro.) And they leave ting in
Uncle William Gaillard hand. And he carry on till everting surrender. And then the Cap'n come
home from Muldro and they try give you sumpin to make start on like cow and ting. They ain't
treat you like a beast. Ain't take no advance o' you. What the Cap'n do he do for you good.
I b'long Dr. Ward. I entitle to bring him two string o' bird. Rice bird come like jest as tick
as dat (thick as that) Sometimes a bushel one shot.

"They put you in the flat and put you over there. When they tink Yankee comin' you take to
Sandhole Crick for hide. Mr. Carmichael sent by the state. Go to Brookgreen, Longwood, Watsaw.
Tell everting surrender. Go to any located place. He's a Gineral. Go open the barn door and
give us all us need. He better to we nigger boy dan he Daddy been! Wouldn't beat you 'thout
the lil' boy really fightin'.

"Time o' the war the colored people hear 'bout Yankee. Not a one eber understand to run way
and go to Yankee boat from WE plantation. These Yankee people wuz walkin' 'bout on the beach.
And while they come in to the hill, the Reb have a battery to Laurel Hill and they cut off
them Yankee from the ocean. These they cut off they carry dem to Brookgreen barn. Hang one
colored man and one white man to Oaks Seashore. White man musser be Sergeant or big Cap'n.
Just as soon as the sun go down you see a big streak come over and they BUSS (bust) Duds. Woman
in the street killed. (Street of negro Quarters--Brookgreen) Blacksmith killed. Cut off he
brudder-in-law (Judy's) and kill Judy. Dem shell go clean to Sandy Island. Pump make out o'
brick to Brookgreen. Dat boy (shell) come and hit the pump. De horn blow and they make for
flat and gwine on to Sandhole down that black crick. There a man for dat--dat flat. Get everbody
line up. Ain't gone there for PLAY. Gone for wuk (work). I was big 'nouf to do diss--go wid
my fadder and hold light.

"It this way. You ain't LOW to eat the whole rice you kin make money outer. Beat dat rice.
But my Daddy been a great whiskey man. Liquor. Didn't have 'em less he go to town. Money scase.
('E wuz a kind of musicianer for the Ward fambly). But he break he jug. He break he whiskey
jug. En when de obersheer (overseer) git out de ration and gib'em to mah Ma and us chillun
he hand mah Pa a piece o' dem break jug! That keep him in mind o' that whiskey jug.

"Yankee come here and butt us colored people. I 'member we youngun's just could 'tote up dem
gold pitcher and bury dem in the garden. Not far from the flowers tank. Tank have on 'em a
woman head (Flowers' tank was a fountain). All the master fine ting way down there bury! De
Ward didn't loss nothin'. They move us out the plantation. Col. Ward took 'em in a flat to Mulbro.

"Dr. Heriot after the war took into big drinkin'. Didn't bury so decent. Fell tru wid all he
money. Not bury so decent."

  =Source:= Told by Uncle Ben Horry, Age 88, April 1938, Murrells Inlet, S.C.

  Project #1655
  Everett R. Pierce
  Columbia, S.C.

  INTERVIEW WITH EX-SLAVE
  MARGARET HUGHES, 82 YEARS.

"Missy, I likes to talk to de white folks, I gits awful lonesome for my massa and missus, and
de white folks I used to be wid. Yes'm, I was born out here 'bout ten miles from Columbia,
at a little place called Nipper Hill. My massa was named Daniel Finley, and my missus was named
Elizabeth, but we called her Missy Betsy. My massa had a big plantation and a heap of slaves;
he had so many he couldn't keep us faces in his mind. One day he see some of us over on another
plantation, and he ask us who we b'long to, and we tell him, and he just smile and say he couldn't
'member all of us. De massa and de missus was so good to us 'til de slaves on other plantations
was jealous; they call us free niggers befo' we was freed.

The grown-up slaves had to work in de field all day and then at night they spin cloth and make
their clothes. We had one shoemaker what didn't do nothing else much 'cept make shoes for all
of us. I was too young to do much work, so the missus mostly keep me in de house to nurse de
chillun. When de chillun go to school, she make me go 'long wid them for to look after them
and tote their books. I stayed wid them all day and brought their books home in de evening.

I got in trouble one day while I was at de school house; I was a right bad little gal, anyway.
I got mad wid one of de little white chillun 'cause she talk mean to Sissy, dat's one of my
missus little girls, and I took her books and put them in a bucket of water. The teacher punish
me, and told my missus I couldn't come back to de school house, 'less she teach me how to behave
more better. I was right good after that, 'cause I was scared of whippings. My missus had three
chillun: Mary, we call her Sissy 'cause she de oldest, then Sally and Willie. I slept in de
big house and play wid de white chillun. When de white folks went off in de carriage they always
let me go too; I set up in de seat wid de driver. They had awful pretty horses to drive.

Massa Daniel had a overseer, named Jake Graddick. He kept de slaves at work and looked after
de crops. He woke de slaves every morning by blowing a big cow horn, and called them to dinner
the same way. We went to work at sunrise, had two hours for dinner, and stopped work at sundown.

The slaves had plenty to eat, and had their own gardens. I helped work de gardens. My old daddy
worked in de garden and made chairs for de slaves, besides working in de fields.

My massa never whip de slaves very much, but he do sometime. Once I saw my poor old daddy in
chains. They chained his feet together, and his hands too, and carry him off to whip him, 'cause
he wouldn't tell who stole a trunk that was missing. He couldn't tell though, 'cause he didn't
know, but they thought he did.

No ma'am missy, us slaves never had no church to go to. We was allowed to go to de white folks'
church though. There was a low partition in de church wid a little gate in it; we set on one
side of it, and de white folks on de other. We listen to de preaching and sung de songs right
'long wid de white folks. Us never had no baptizings though. I learned a heap of things in
Sunday School.

Talking 'bout patrollers, I was awful scared of them. We had to have a pass from our massa
to go from one plantation to another, and if we went without a pad the patrollers would ketch
us and whip us. I never did get ketched though. De only time de massa ever let us ride de horses
was when he want us to carry a message from one plantation to another.

Yes ma'am, 'bout these weddings you asked me 'bout; well, we had a big time when any of de
slaves got married. De massa and de missus let them get married in de big house, and then we
had a big dance at one of de slave house. De white folks furnish all kinds of good things to
eat, and de colored peoples furnish de music for de dance. My mammy's brother been one of de
best fiddlers there was; he teach de other niggers how to play.

The best times we had was 'long in summer time, 'tending them Camp Meetings. We had good men
to preach de service, and then all of us women got together and spread a big picnic dinner,
that we'd brought from home in baskets, and we sure had a good time. Sometime some of them
eat so much they get sick. We ain't had so much sickness 'long them times though, not like
we do now. Us used to wear garlic and asafetida 'round our neck to keep off diseases; never
had many neither. We was vaccinated to keep from ketching smallpox.

Well little missy, I done told you just 'bout all I 'members 'cept 'bout de Yankees. When I
used to hear de older niggers talking 'bout de Yankees coming, I was scared, 'cause I thought
it was some kind of animal they was talking 'bout. My old aunty was glad to hear 'bout de Yankees
coming. She just set and talk 'bout what a good time we was going to have after de Yankees
come. She'd say; 'Child we going to have such a good time a settin' at de white folks table,
a eating off de white folks table, and a rocking in de big rocking chair.'

Something awful happen to one of de slaves though, when de Yankees did come. One of de young
gals tell de Yankees where de missus had her silver, money and jewelry hid, and they got it
all. What you think happened to de poor gal? She'd done wrong I know, but I hated to see her
suffer so awful for it. After de Yankees had gone, de missus and massa had de poor gal hung
'til she die. It was something awful to see. De Yankees took everything we had 'cept a little
food, hardly 'nough to keep us alive.

When de slaves were freed de most of them didn't had nowhere to go, so we just stayed on wid
de massa and missus and they was good to us as long as we stayed wid them. I wishes sometime
I was a slave again, 'cause I likes being a slave, didn't have nothing to worry 'bout then."

  Home address
  3105 Asylum Road.

"Well, bless ye little heart, honey, ye say ye is wan' me to tell ye 'bout how de people lived
way back dere in slavery time. Honey, I dunno wha' to tell ye cause I ain' never been treated
no ways but good in me life by my Missus. I tell dese chillun here dat dey ain' never see no
sech time uz dere been den. My Missus been marry Massa John Bethea en dey is raise dey flock
up dere to de crossroads next Latta. Dat whey I been raise. Honey, my Missus see to it she
self dat we look a'ter in de right way. Ain' never been made to do no work much den. Jes played
dere in de back yard wid me dolls aw de time I wanna. Honey, I dunno nuthin to tell ye cause
I is lib lak uh lamb in dem days."

"I wus born on de 25th uv December, right on de big Chrissmus day, dere on Massa John plantation
en I was 14 year old when freedom declare. I is 85 year old now en, honey, me health jes uz
good now uz ever it wuz. My Missus take sech good care uv us aw de time en see a'ter us she
self when we sick en I is take sech good care uv me self a'ter I leab dere dat I 'spect to
be here long time from now. Ain' know no ailment tall. Coase de rheumatism is worry me right
smart on uh night. Honey, dis rheumatism ain' been cause from no bad teeth. I is hab eve'y
tooth in me head wha' I hab when I wuz 7 year old en dey jes uz good uz dey was den. It jes
dis way, jes uz long uz I is workin', I feels mighty smart, mighty smart, child!"

"I 'clare to goodness white folks come down here jes to hear me talk. Honey, I is wish I could
stay wid yunnah aw de day. I could tell yunnah aw 'bout dem days cause I ain' know nuthin but
big living den. I tell me grandchillun dat dem times 'ud be uh show for dem now. My Massa had
uh big plantation, honey, uh big plantation! Right in de center wuz me Missus house en den
dere wuz two long row uv we house to de right dere on de place close to de big house. I 'members
when de plantation hand wha' work in de field been come to de house in de middle uv de day
to ge' dey dinner, I been lub to stand 'round de big pot en watch em when dey ge' dey sumptin
to eat. Yas'um, dey is cook aw de food for de field hand in de same big ole black pot out in
de yard. Yas'um, dey is put aw de victual in one pot. Dey'ud go to de smokehouse en cut off
uh whole half uh side uv bacon en drap it right in dat pot. Dat been flavor de pot jes right
cause in dem days, us ration been season wid meat. Honey, dere 'ud be 'bout thirty uv dem hand
wha' had to eat out dat pot. Dere been uh shelter built over de pot to keep de rain out en
den dere was uh big scaffold aw 'round de pot whey de put de pans when dey dish de victual
up. De field hands 'ud come dere en ge' dey pan uv ration offen dis scaffold."

"Now de chillun on de plantation ain' been 'low to eat outer dat pot wid de field hand. My
auntie cook us victuals right dere in de kitchen on de Missus fireplace an we eat right dere
outer us own separate pan. My Missus see she self dat we been fed right en she see dat de food
been cook done, cook done, honey, en been seasoned right aw de time. My Missus ain' never stand
fa me to go widout me meat fa break'ast. Folks ain' eat den lak dey does nowadays. Dey been
eat more meat den en it ain' hu't dem lak it hu'ts em now. Honey, peoples ain' lib peaceful
lak dey been lib den. Den peoples ain' cook dey food done lak de food been cook den. My auntie
cook aw de bread right dere in de kitchen on de fireplace. I is hab some uv dem spider right
here in de yard now. (She showed us two iron spiders about 8 inches deep with three legs. One
was being used in the yard as a drinking place for the chickens and the other was carelessly
thrown just under the edge of her house.) When I come 'way from my Missus plantation, I been
take care uv wha' I bring 'way wid me. Dere uh ole loom dere in de house right now. I 'members
how I use 'er lub to lie down on de Missus floor under de loom en watch my auntie when she
wuz spinning dere."

"Dey'ud hab gray sheep en white sheep den en dey'ud make sech nice cloth. Yas'um, dey'ud dye
de cloth right dere on de plantation. I 'member aw 'bout dat. De Missus hab uh big patch uv
indigo dat dey growed right dere en dey'ud gather it en boil it in de pot en den dey'ud take
de cloth dat my auntie is help weave an put it in dat pot en dye it jes uz pretty. My Missus
see to it she self dat de plantation peoples clothes been make right en dat we is hab nice
clean place to sleep. De Missus never 'low none uv us to lay down in rags. She see 'bout aw
dis she self. I know my Missus gone to Hebbun, honey, en I hope she restin' dere."

  =Source:= Mom Hester Hunter, age 85, colored. Remember de first time dem Yankees come dere, I was settin
down in de chimney corner en my mammy was givin me my breakfast.
Remember I been settin dere wid my milk en my bowl of hominy en I hear
my old grandmammy come a runnin in from out de yard en say all de sky
was blue as indigo wid de Yankees comin right dere over de hill den. Say
she see more Yankees den could ever cover up all de premises bout dere.
Den I hear my Missus scream en come a runnin wid a lapful of silver en
tell my grandmammy to hurry en sew dat up in de feather bed cause dem
Yankees was mighty apt to destroy all dey valuables. Old Missus tell all
de colored people to get away, get away en take care of demselves en
tell we chillun to get back to de chimney corner cause she couldn'
protect us noways no longer. Yes, honey, I was a little child settin
dere in dat chimney corner listenin to all dat scamperin bout en I
remember dat day just as good as it had been dis day right here."

"Oh, my God, dem Yankees never bring nothin but trouble en destructiveness when dey come here,
child. I remember I hear tell dat my old stepfather been gone to de mill to grind some corn
en when he was comin down de road, two big Yankees jump out de bushes side de road en tell
him stop dere. He say dey tell him if he want to save his neck, he better get off dat ox right
den en get away from dere. He say he been so scared he make for de woods fast as he could get
dere en tell dat he lay down wid knots under his head many a night fore he would venture to
come out from dat woods. Never hear tell of his ox en corn no more neither. Oh, honey, my old
Missus was a dear old soul en didn' none of her colored people have no mind to want to leave
dere no time."

"We chillun never didn' know nothin bout no hard times in dat day en time. Seems like de Lord
had just open up en fix de way for us to have everything we want. Oh, honey, we chillun never
been harness up in no little bit of place to play like dese chillun bout here dese days. We
had all de big fields en de pretty woods to wander round en bout en make us playhouse in. Seems
like de Lord had made de little streams just right for we chillun to play in en all kind of
de prettiest flowers to come up right down side de paths us little feet had made dere, but
dat wasn' nothin. Dere was flowers scatter bout everywhe' you look in de woods en all kind
of birds en squirrels en rabbits en honey, dey was live play things. Dat how-come we been so
satisfy. I here to tell you my old Missus was a dear old soul en we chillun sho had a fine
time comin up. She didn' never have her niggers cut up en slashed up no time. She was good
to us en we stuck to her."

"In de mornin bout dis time, me en my Missus would take a walk in de woods down by de creek.
I remember I would be dere wid my mammy en old Missus would say, 'Judy, whe' Hester? I want
her to take a walk wid me dis mornin.' I been bout five or six years old den en I would get
tired. I say, 'Mittie, I tired, I tired.' She say, 'Well, set down en rest awhile.' I remember
dere been a big old sweet gum tree settin dere side de creek dat had a place hollow out in
it dat looked just like a chair been made dere. Old Missus would set down dere en take me right
down side her en stay dere till we was rested. I go wid her one day when de creek been rise
way up high en dere been a heap of water in de road. I say, 'Mittie, I scared, I scared.' She
tell me dere couldn' nothin hurt me en I remember we went on en see a big black fish just a
jumpin in de road. Old Missus say, 'Hester, catch him, catch him.' I say, 'Mittie, I can',
I can', I scared.' I recollects she caught dat fish en tied it wid her garter en let me drag
it home en tell my mammy cook it for my supper. Honey, dat been a day. Never couldn' forget
bout dat."

"I remember me en my old Missus went to de graveyard one mornin en we found a runaway nigger
hidin in a house dat was standin in de graveyard. Dat was an old, old slavery time house to
de graveyard en people would go dere en hide. It was just like dis, honey, generally people
in de country be scared of a graveyard en wouldn' nobody go dere to hunt dem. I remember just
as good when he see us, he squatted down right low. I say, 'Mittie, looka, looka, I scared.'
Den she say, 'Hester, I notice de clouds are growin more en more gray en I fear we better be
gettin back home. I never like for a rain to catch us away from home.' I know Missus say dat
to make me think she wasn' scared, but I never had no mind to tell her I know what been de
matter dat she want to hurry home. Yes'um, dat old house in de graveyard was one of dem kind
dat been settin high off de ground. Dat de kind of house dey cook underneath in slavery time.
Cose it was closed up when dey had de kitchen down dere. No, mam, Massa never didn' go to walk
wid old Missus. He was seein over all de plantation en Missus didn have but one son, little
John O. Bethea, en he was gone off to school. No, child, old Missus wouldn' never allow nobody
to go wid her but just me."

"You see, it was like dis, my old Missus been name Sara Davis fore she marry Massa John Bethea
en my mammy en grandmammy had come up wid her in de country en dat how-come dere been such
a feelin twixt dem. Yes, mam, I love my old Missus better den I ever love honey en flour bread
cause she was a dear old soul. You see, she was always lookin to me to do somethin for her.
Say I was her favorite child to pick up things bout de house en yard for her. She always had
my mammy preserve me en Bob as her favorite house chillun. She wouldn' never allow none of
dem other nigger chillun to come nowhe' round whe' she was cause dem what went bout de Missus
never didn' stay to de nigger quarter no time. My grandmammy, she had to get all dem other
plantation chillun together en see dat dey do what de Missus look for dem to do."

"My God, child, people never know nothin but to go to church on de big Sunday in dat day en
time. No, mam, dey know dat been dey Massa rule en didn' nobody have no mind to question nothin
bout it. My old Missus was a dear old soul en she would see to it dat all her niggers wash
en iron en cook on Saturday cause she never allow no work gwine on round whe' she was when
Sunday come, be dat she know bout it. I remember my old Massa en Missus used to ride to church
in dey big black carriage en dey always would carry me en Bob right dere in de carriage wid
dem somehow another. Stuff us down 'tween de seats somewhe'. I recollects just as bright as
de stars be shinin old Missus would carry me en Bob to de same little seats we been sit in
every Sunday en den she en old Massa would go to dey certain pew in de front part of de church.
Oh, honey, dat was a day for dem niggers to walk de road to church. Dat was a picnic for dem.
Oh, dey never had to walk but bout four miles. Why, darlin, I used to walk fourteen miles to
church every Sunday en didn' think nothin bout it. I think dat was de finest thing I know for
me en my grandfather to walk 14 miles to church over dere on de hill every Sunday. I remember
we would set out bout time de sun would be risin. Yes, mam, we would carry our dinner wid us
cause we know we would be till night gettin back home again. It just like I been tell you,
de peoples sho cook dey dinner for Sunday on Saturday in dat day en time. Dat been a mighty
good thing, child, been a mighty good thing. Honey, it been de rule to follow what de Bible
say do in dat day en time en now it seem like de rule must be, do like you see de other fellow
is doin. Yes, mam, if you ain' been to church in dat day en time, you sho had to report how-come
you ain' been dere."

"I tell you, child, I been here. If I live to see de Christmas day, I'll be past 85 years old.
I ain' been up town in God knows when en I wants to go so bad back to see my white folks. Dem
Evans chillun, dey comes to see me often. Dat child had took dat trip round de world en she
come right back en tell me all bout it. Well, bless my heart, she done gone en get married
last Sunday en I never know bout it. She tell me she was gwine marry one of dese days, but
I never know. I hope dat man will take care of her en be good to my baby. I hope her older
days won' be her worser days."

"Yes, mam, I remember just as good as it was yesterday what dey say when freedom come here.
Oh, I hates to think bout dat day till dis one. Remember dey call all de niggers up to de yard
en I hear old Missus say, 'You don' no more belong to me. You can go if you want to en if you
want to, you can stay.' I say, 'Yes, mam, I do want to stay, I ain' gwine leave you.' Dat was
my white mammy en I stay dere long as she live too. Didn' want no better livin den I was gettin
right dere. It been a Paradise, be dat what I calls it." Been here a day. I tell dese chillun
here de other week dere ain' no need for me to be frettin bout nothin no more cause my time
bout out. I got my ducks en my chickens en my chair right dere in de yard en I stays out dere
wid dem all de day till sundown. You see, I have such a hurtin in my back en such a drawin
in my knees en seems like de sun does just help me along to bear de pain, but honey, I been
walkin a long time. I remember I been a little child in de bed listenin on en I hear my aunt
come in one day en say, 'Ma, I hear boss talkin bout dey gwine free de niggers.' Ma say, 'I
don' have no mind for nothin like dat. I gwine be gone en you gwine be gone too fore den.'
Child, I sho been here a time. Remember dey been four years buildin dem embankments en dey
been four years fightin. Yes, mam, I been through a day since I come here."

"Honey, I was a hustlier when I was a young woman en dat de reason my chillun had such good
schoolin. If it had been left to my husband, dey wouldn' been know A from B. I think bout how
my old Massa used to try to learn me to spell en dat how-come I had such a feelin for my chillun
to get some learnin. My daughter, she taught 20 years in dat school right over dere en when
she see dat I wasn' able to carry on no longer, she throwed up her hands one day en say she
wasn' gwine teach school no more. Tell Bill en dem chillun dat she was gwine stay here home
en keep me from fallin in de pots. Den she put out de word dat she would do a washin for dis
one en a washin for dat one en honey, I see her dere washin so hard sometimes, I have a feelin
dat I would rather she be out en gone from here. Seems like it does hurt me so to see her wastin
away like dat after I been worry so to give her such a good school learnin."

"I tell you when I come up, it de Lord's truth, I ain' know nothin but a decent livin all de
time. My old Missus was a dear old soul en I been raise dat way. I hear talk bout how some
of de white folks would bout torture dey niggers to death sometimes, but never didn' see my
white folks allow nothin like dat. Dey would whip dey niggers dat runaway en stay in de woods,
but not so worser. No, mam, my Missus wouldn' allow no slashin round bout whe' she was. I remember
my boss had one of my old Missus niggers up dere in de yard one mornin en say he was gwine
whip him en my Missus say, 'John O., you let my nigger alone.' You see, my Missus had her niggers
en den old Boss had his niggers cause when old Missus been marry Massa John O. Bethea, she
had brought here share of niggers from whe' she was raise in de country. It been like dis,
old Missus father had scratch de pen for everyone of his chillun to have so many niggers apiece
for dey portion of his property so long as dey would look after dem en treat dem good. Den
if dere been talk dat dem chillun never do what he say do, dey was to take dem niggers right
back to dey old Massa home. But, child, dey never didn' take no niggers away from my old Missus
cause she sho took care of dem. Stuck to her niggers till she died."

"I remember just as good dere been two long row of nigger house up in de quarter en de Bethea
niggers been stay in de row on one side en de Davis niggers been stay in de row on de other
side. En, honey, dere been so much difference in de row on dis side en de row on dat side.
My God, child, you could go through dere en spot de Sara Davis niggers from de Bethea niggers
time you see dem. Won' no trouble no time. All old Missus niggers had dey bresh (brush) pile
side dey house to sun dey beds on en dry dey washin cause my Missus would see to it herself
dat dey never kept no nasty livin. We was raise decent, honey, en dat how-come me en my chillun
is dat way to dis very day. Dere dat child in de house now, she does put fresh sheet on all
us bed every week just like dey was white people bed. You see, if you raise dat way, you ain'
gwine never be no ther way. Yes, mam, my old Missus sho took time to learn her niggers right.
Honey, both dese hands here was raise not to steal. I been cook for heap of dese white folks
bout here dat been left everything right wide open wid me en ain' nobody never hear none of
dem complain bout losin nothin to dis day. No, mam, ain' nobody never didn' turn no key on
me. I remember, if my old Missus would hear talk dat we been bother somethin dat didn' belong
to us, she would whip us en say, 'I'm not mad, but you chillun have got to grow up some day
en you might have to suffer worse den dis if you don' learn better while you young."

"Yes, mam, dat been a day. Dem niggers what been bred on Massa John C. Bethea's plantation
never know nothin but big livin in dat day en time. Remember all bout dem days. Recollect dat
dey would give all dey colored people so much of flour for dey Sunday eatin en den dey had
a certain woman on de place to cook all de other ration for de niggers in one big pot out in
old Massa's yard. All de niggers would go dere to de pot on Sunday en get dey eatin like turnips
en collards en meat en carry it to dey house en make dey own bread. Den in de week time, dey
would come out de field at 12 o'clock en stand round de pot en eat dey pan of ration en den
dey would go back in de field en work. When dey would come home at night, dere would be enough
cook up for dem to carry home to last till de next day dinner. Didn' eat no breakfast no time.
Had meat en greens en corn bread en dumplings to eat mostly en won' no end to milk. Got plenty
of dat en dey was sho glad to get it. Cose dem what been stay to de white folks house would
eat to de Missus kitchen. En, my Lord, child, my white folks had de prettiest kind of rice
dat dey made right dere on dey own plantation. Had plenty rice to last dem from one year to
de other just like dey had dey hominy. Den old Massa had a big fish pond en in de summer time
when it would get too hot to work, he would allow all his plantation niggers to catch all de
pikes en jacks dey wanted en salt dem down in barrels for de winter. Didn' allow nobody to
go nowhe' bout dat fish pond but us niggers. En another thing, dey wouldn' cure dey meat wid
nothin but dis here green hickory wood en I speak bout what I been know, dere ain' never been
nothin could touch de taste of dem hams en shoulder meat. Oo--oo--oo, honey, dey would make
de finest kind of sausages in dem days. I tell my chillun I just bout turn against dese sausage
de people make bout here dese days."

"Yes, mam, I been hearin bout dat thing call conjurin all my days, ever since I been in dis
world, but I ain' never put no faith in nothin like dat. I say, I don' want no hand but what
God give me. I remember I got de sore eyes one time en a woman come to me en say, 'Miss Hester,
dere a woman in dis town poison you.' Tell me dey put somethin on de rag I had wipe my eyes
wid. I tell her she was wastin her speech cause I know I never had nothin to worry bout. It
de blessed truth I'm tellin you, dere some of dese people right bout here now got dese transfer
driver gwine down in de country to get people to do somethin for dem all de time. Honey, if
some people in dis town had dis rheumatism I got, dey would swear somebody do somethin to dem.
Oh, my God, dere so much devilment gwine on in de world dese days. I sho has faith in God en
I reckon dat how-come I gets along so good."

"Oh, de people, dey is awful worser den what dey used to be. I know by my comin on dat dey
awful worser. De little tots bout here dese days know things de older people used to be de
only ones dat know bout. Yes, mam, I sets down en prays when others sleep en I say, 'Lord,
what gwine happen? Look like de young people on de straight road to hell gettin in so much
devilment. When I was comin up, I didn' have nothin to grieve over, but seem like dere somethin
all de time dese days.