He picked up a stake lying beside the platform and began to poke around beneath it. As he reached
forward to push the stake underneath, something struck like a flash at the back of his hand,
and at the same moment a large rattlesnake uncoiled and slid from underneath the boards out
into the short grass. With a blow of the stake the Indian broke the snake's back and then began
to suck the two punctures on his knuckle, at the same time keeping the hand tightly closed
and the skin drawn tight.

For a moment Jack was horrified. Then the instincts of the Scouts and his quickly working brain
ran rapidly over the instructions of "first aid." With a shout that brought the other boys
and Swiftwater on the run he drew from his pocket a small cord, doubled it into a slipnoose
and placing it on the Indian's wrist drew it so tight as to cut off the circulation. At the
same time he called to Rand to bring the medicine case. The miner, as soon as he comprehended
what the trouble was, also disappeared in the direction of the tent. When Rand returned he
had in his hand a solution of permanganate of potash and a vial of strong ammonia. With each
of these he saturated the wound with some difficulty, however, as the aborigine insisted for
a time in keeping his lips to the wound as his own theory of first aid. The hand and wrist
had now swollen so much that the cord had practically disappeared in the flesh and the Indian
was evidently suffering much pain. At this moment Swiftwater appeared with a small gallon demijohn,
from which he poured for the Indian a large tin cup full of neat whisky. The red man swallowed
it without a quiver and the miner poured out another of similar size which the Indian also drank.

"That'll fix him," said Jim, "but I'm very glad you thought of that cord Jack or we'd have
been an Indian short. Those drugs you have will neutralize the poison and I don't know but
they would have been sufficient, but I'm takin' no chances. This" (indicating the demijohn),
"is the old reliable snakebite cure, discovered by Columbus when he discovered the rattlesnake
over here and my mind naturally reverted to it at the first jump. The worst of it is that the
Injun won't be of much use for a couple of days and I'm afraid all the other Siwashes will
quit work and go to huntin' rattlesnakes."

The work of building the sod house began soon after the morning meal, and by night had made
substantial progress. One of the side walls was built higher than the other, and a roof of
rough boards was laid on top of thick planks which formed the top course of the walls. On this
roof was laid a course of sod, the grass of which began in a few days to grow lustily.

"'Taint everywhere," said Swiftwater, with a smile, "that a man can have his lawn on the roof
of his house."

CHAPTER IX.

AN HEIRLOOM RETURNED.

Rand, whose inquiring turn of mind was scarcely inferior to that of Jack, but of a more profound
and less transitory nature, had shown a strong interest in the Indian boatmen from the beginning
of their journey and had struck up an especial friendship with the Indian whose dog had tackled
the wild cat and had been later crushed by the Kodiak bear. The red man, while not morose,
was taciturn, and replied to all questions with monosyllables and scarcely a smile. He showed
friendliness in other ways, and as he became better acquainted with the boys responded to the
young Scout leader's approaches. Day by day and word by word he inducted Rand into the mysteries
of the "pigeon," or jargon used as a language of communication with the natives. It was made
up of half Siwash, half English words, the latter so amputated and distorted as scarcely to
be recognizable. It was rather automatic in character, as it could be changed or added to as
circumstances required, and Rand found it easy to use after he had mastered the first few principles
of it, if it may be said to have had any.

One evening, after the day's work was over, Rand strolled over to the shack where the Indians
lived and found his erstwhile friend sitting on a stone, engaged in slowly carving with a sharp
knife the soft wood of a sycamore spar that had been carefully cleared of its branches and
smoothed to comparative symmetry. The worker had begun at the butt end of the pole and had
worked his way carefully upward. The carvings were weird, goggle eyed, snouted and saw-toothed
creatures, the like of which could only have originated in the brain of the late Lewis Carroll,
who wrote "Alice in Wonderland" or in the dreams of a Siwash nourished on smoked salmon and
rancid seal oil. Part of the carved lines of one creature formed the features of another (if
they could be dignified by the name of features), and there was a sort of artistic continuity
about the whole that aroused Rand's interest and admiration. At the butt of the pole another
Indian had begun with two or three bean tins filled with crude colors evidently made from vegetable
dyes, to paint the carvings already finished. Rand pointed to the pole, and asked:

"What?"

"Totem," grunted the Siwash. "Me chief." He further informed the young Scout that it was his
purpose to set it up in front of the camp. Just then, Swiftwater came along and spoke to the
Indian in his native Siwash. The latter arose and stood for a moment erect, with his hand on
his breast with so dignified an air that Rand could scarcely recognize in the figure before
him the slouching round-shouldered aborigine, who went daily, so stolidly, about the labor
of the camp. Swiftwater listened to the rather oratorical harangue which the Indian delivered,
smiling at times, but giving the man respectful attention. He even gave him half a salute,
as he turned and walked with Rand toward their own tent.

"I didn't know that we had with us a representative of the old Siwash nobility. The tribal
relations of these people are pretty well broken up since we brought our boasted civilization
and our whiskey up among their homes, and they don't recognize the authority of their head
men any more. They have 'got onto' our most cherished principle that all men were created free
and equal, and the chiefs and their families have to hustle for a living as hard as the lowest
of them. Still, they cling to their ancient dignities. That totem he's been carving is the
insignia of his clan or family, and as he couldn't bring the old family totem pole with him,
he carves one wherever he settles for a time, and sets it up. You remember in old 'Ivanhoe,'
Front de Boeuf and the Templar displayed their banners on the castle walls whenever they came
up for the week end, and they really didn't have so much on this old rootdigger after all.
I rather like his spunk. Good family connections are really something to be proud of if ye
don't let 'em interfere with yer business, and they don't come visitin' too often."

Something about the totem pole aroused Rand's imagination, and with the other boys he went
over to the shack to look at the "work of art" as Jack insisted on calling it. Although the
boys had seen totem poles in the city museums, and one or two on their original ground in the
Alaskan villages that they had visited, there was something familiar about this one. As they
went over the various figures, trying to distinguish them from each other and speculating on
what they were supposed to represent, Pepper, who had been inspecting the upper part of the
work, where lack of color made the figures less conspicuous, suddenly exclaimed:

"S-s-say, this fellow's family isn't so very old. Here's the ace of clubs, and that couldn't
have got over here before Columbus, and he didn't come up this far."

"What's that?" said Rand. "Let's look at it." Then, for the first time, the reason for the
familiarity of the design struck him.

"Hey, boys," he cried, excitedly, "don't you see it?"

"What is it?" they cried in chorus, crowding around him.

"There, there, and there. The top of this totem is an exact replica of our narwhal horn. Here's
the mammoth, and here's the pile of tusks."

"Begorra, that's truth," said Gerald. "Looks as though he had copied it from our ivory. Run
and get it, Rand."

The young Scout leader, who had been made custodian of the treasure, returned to the tent and
brought out the relic. It was a short, broken piece of the twisted horn of the narwhal or white
whale, discolored, and rubbed smooth as if with much handling. It was covered with rude etchings
evidently made with flints or sharp shells. As nearly as could be made out, the figures represented
a mammoth, an extinct creature of the elephant tribe, a man beside a dogless sledge, a pile
of mammoth tusks, and a high cliff with an opening or cave at the top whose mouth was shaped
like the ace of clubs referred to by Pepper.

With the greatest care the boys went over the lines of the graven ivory comparing the figures
with the carvings of the hieroglyphics which the "chief" had carved on his totem pole, and
found them to be almost identical, except for a few minor particulars caused by the relief
work on the totem, and less crudity in the carvings.

The Indians at this time of day were engaged at their work of sawing lumber and in finishing
the foundations of the sod house, where a ditch was being dug, but it being near the hour of
noon the man who had described himself as a "chief" came to the shack to arrange for the noonday
meal.

The boys turned to greet him as he came up, and Rand drew his attention to the ivory, intending
to indicate the resemblance of the two carvings. As his eye fell upon the relic a remarkable
change came over the Siwash. He reached forward, and his eyes blazing with excitement, almost
tore the ivory from Rand's hand and stepped back in a defiant attitude.

Heretofore, the tones of the Indians, like those of their dogs, had been low, guttural and
subdued. Now the aborigine gave vent to a shrill piercing yell, and, at the same time, waved
hysterically to his comrades, all five of whom dropped their tools and rushed to the shack
and surrounded the chief.

With a wealth of wild gesticulation and deep growling tones that at times rose to almost a
shriek in a higher note they examined the horn and appeared to pay it the most awed reverence.
The Scouts seeing that they were so deeply interested did not attempt to repossess themselves
of their treasure for some minutes, and then Rand was met by a most firm refusal on the part
of the leading Indian to give it up.

The other Indians surrounded him in a defiant attitude--the first sign of insubordination that
had yet appeared among them, and the boys seeing that they had encountered a mystery which
could not at once be unraveled, and that the relic had some almost overpowering importance
to the Siwashes, determined to drop the matter for the time being, and put it up later to the
commander of the camp.

The aborigines went back quietly to their labor in the afternoon, and the boys who were at
work with the miner, laying out the foundation for the sawmill, took occasion in the intervals
of their labor to tell Swiftwater the story of the narwhal's horn, and the incident that had
taken place at noon. The guide listened with close attention, and at the finish of the incident
his face was rather grave.

"I'll talk with that main guy Siwash, some time this afternoon. Meantime, I wish you would
all leave this matter in my hands. It may turn out to be of more importance to us than we think."

The Scouts readily agreed, and toward the middle of the afternoon the miner left them and strolled
over to where the Indians were at work on the sod house, and calling the "chief" to one side
walked away with him to the bank of the creek.

"Well," said Jack, when they were all together at one end of the foundation, "what do you think
of it? There seems to be more in that horn than we thought when we decided to bring it along
with us."

"Yes," replied Rand, "and we seem to be coming out of the little end of it."

"Faith," exclaimed Gerald, "it looks as if that Indian was going to hold on to our relic, and
the others seem as if they were going to stand by him."

"They certainly have seen something like it before," commented Dick, "and maybe it's worth
more to them than to us. It was only a mere guess of ours, after Colonel Snow undertook to
interpret it to us, that there might be anything behind it, and it was only because it had
evidently come from an Arctic country that we even thought of bringing it along with us."

"I think," said Rand, "that we shall have trouble getting it back, and I, for one, propose
that we leave the whole matter in the hands of Swiftwater and try and get the true inwardness
of the thing from him. It ought to be a good story if we don't get anything else out of it."
This view was readily agreed to, and the afternoon's work was progressing satisfactorily when
Don, after deep thought, said:

"I've been listening to this Siwash language, and I haed me doots as to whether it was a real
language like Gaelic or English or just a rumble, but when I heard that head man scream like
a white man I concluded that it's got some elements of a language."

The conference between the miner and the chief lasted for a half hour, after which the latter
returned to his work, and Swiftwater joined the boys. His face was still grave, and simply
remarking that he would enlighten them at supper when the afternoon's work was completed.

"I'm a little bothered about this matter," said Swiftwater, after the evening meal was concluded,
"and would have given a good deal if it hadn't happened. My experience with savages the world
over has taught me that while you may rob them and make war on them and get away with it, that
you cannot interfere safely with their religions or their traditions. Not that we have intentionally
done so, but it may have an effect after all.

"The chief told me a long story, a good deal of which I couldn't quite make out the sense of,
but it seems that you boys have in some way got hold of an ancient treasure of his tribe many
hundred years old, and considered in some way, sacred. He says there were two of these relics,
that they were handed from generation to generation and carefully guarded. At first they were
merely the record of a buried treasure, the wealth of the northern tribes being the ivory of
the walrus and the narwhal and such tusks of the mammoth as came to them through the melting
of the glaciers. The buried treasure was never found, and the tradition finally became incorporated
in the totem or coat of arms of the tribe.

"Many years ago this family of Siwashes was raided by tall red Indians from the far southwest
and the family scattered, and many women and children and much loot taken. These ivory relics
were among the loot, and have been simply a legend of the remnants of the tribe ever since.

"The unexpected return of this relic has aroused a new spirit in them, and I can see a little
offishness and suspicion. While I do not expect any trouble from them I want to be absolutely
certain of them until we get this work of Colonel Snow's done, and as I say, I should have
been better satisfied if the matter had not come up at this time."

"I want to suggest," said Rand, "that we Scouts surrender all claim to the ivory, and tell
the Indians that they are welcome to the relic."

"That might be a good idea, and I will go along with you and explain to the Siwashes that it
came into your hands accidentally."

The boys crossed over to the shack where the chief sat smoking with the others. For some reason
all work on the totem pole had been abandoned for that night at least.

Rand, in his newly acquired jargon, explained to the aborigines that the Scouts desired to
present the heirloom to the tribe, and Swiftwater supplemented this with a talk in the native
tongue telling just how the boys had come into possession of the horn.

The Indians listened gravely, without expression, except to nod eager assent to the offer of
the Scouts to relinquish the prized relic. The chief even showed some cordiality, saying:

"Good! You come me potlatch," which Jim explained was an invitation to visit him at his village
on the occasion of a merrymaking similar to a Christmas celebration.

The Scouts retired that night full of the mystery of the thing, feeling as if they had come,
somehow, into touch with a long dead past. Swiftwater appeared more reassured, but took occasion
to visit the shack before turning in and found the aborigines all herded together with the
dog in the almost air tight hut, ventilation appearing to be a thing abhorrent to them.

The first thing that became apparent when the boys and the miner threw back the cheesecloth
door of their tent that kept out the horde of mosquitos in the early morning was the absolute
silence of the forest. The six Indians had taken one of the two boats, and with the dog had
silently drifted away during the night down the current of Gold.

CHAPTER X.

BUILDING THE CAMP.

The chagrin of Swiftwater Jim was almost too great for expression when the discovery of the
Indians' desertion was made.

"It was what I had feared," he said. "Still, I thought our talk last night had absolutely satisfied
them. I don't think they were so much afraid of us as that they desired to be sure that the
sacred bone got back safely to their village, and they knew that a big feast would be made
for them when they returned. It would be useless to pursue them, for it would be a hard trip
back to White Horse, and there would be no certainty of our being able to keep them if we got
them back. Our work here is so nearly finished that I believe if we turn to it heartily we
can complete it in the time we intended and get back to Skagway in time to meet Colonel Snow
on his return from the northwest. How about it?"

The Scouts, and especially Rand, felt themselves to be to a certain extent responsible for
the situation in which they found themselves that they readily agreed to turn to and exert
themselves to the utmost to finish up the work of preparing the camp for the winter's work.

The sod house had been practically finished by the Indians before they deserted, the only thing
remaining to be done consisting of the hanging of a pair of stout double doors on the casings
that had been let into the sod as the walls went up, the finishing of the windows and the erection
of a chimney for the big fireplace that had been built into the house at one end.

The doors had nothing artistic or ornate about them, and in half a day were constructed of
rough lumber and hung on strong hinges from among the hardware in stock. Instead of glass for
the windows, which hard freezing of the sod house and settling of the walls might have a tendency
to shatter, double sheets of mica, such as is used in the flexible tops of automobiles, were
set in and plastered with clay which was burnt to the hardness and consistency of brick by
a plumber's flash lamp sending out the hot flame of burning gasoline in the hands of Swiftwater.

The construction of the chimney was a novel experience for the boys, who knew little of the
expedients that pioneers far from stone and lime were compelled to resort to. It is true there
were many boulders in the creek, but skilled work was necessary to lay them, and the miner
resorted to an easier method.

A considerable amount of lumber sawed by the Indians remained, and this was split up into stakes
about two inches square. These were driven into the walls of the house alongside of the fireplace
and other stakes laid across them at their outer ends.

As fast as this structure became a foot high it was plastered inside and out with clay which
was burnt hard with the blow lamp. Above the opening in the fireplace the chimney was continued
by putting of clay on the sod wall and burning it in, making the chimney smaller for better draft.

The top of the chimney above the house was provided by constructing a cratelike affair by fastening
smaller pieces to four stout stakes and setting these stakes down into the chimney and plastering
the whole inside and out with clay. After a hot fire had been kept up in the fireplace for
twenty-four hours to thoroughly bake the clay Swiftwater announced that the sod house was finished.

This work was not accomplished without some inconvenience, and even suffering to the boys as
yet scarcely inured to hard labor. Blistered hands and aching backs were the daily portion,
and it was only by working them in shifts of three that the miner was able to gradually break
them in. But pure air and good food worked wonders, and in a few days they hardly felt the
effects of a day's labor except in increased appetites and sound sleep. As the days went on,
however, the small pests of wood and water that come with the summer increased in number, and
almost drove the boys frantic. The mosquito seemed to be always present day and night, and
despite the use of nettings and cheesecloth it seemed almost impossible to keep them out of
the tent. A worse plague if possible was the "black fly," a minute midge that bored deep into
the skin and brought the blood with every bite. There was also in lesser numbers a large striped
fly that had a habit of hanging on the spruces and birches in clusters, but came at once to
welcome the white man as an old friend.

His bite was like the cut of a knife. Swiftwater said he had never been able to discover what
this fly lived on when the white man was not there, for it is matter of record that it would
not touch an Indian or an Eskimo.

As it became necessary to protect one's self against these tiny marauders, Swiftwater dealt
out to the boys small vials of a swarthy looking mixture compounded of oil of cedar, oil of
tar and pennyroyal. With this they bathed their faces and hands frequently, which had the effect
of discouraging the pests and greatly reducing their attacks. The mixture entered the pores
of the skin, however, and it was not many days before everyone of the Scouts was as tawny colored
as the Siwashes who had left them.

"You're not the only Injun in camp, now," said Jack, addressing Don, who had been adopted into
a tribe of Crees in the Canadian Rockies. "If this Patrol should step into an Indian village
now we'd be adopted offhand on our complexions alone."

"I'm na so certain," replied Don, "but I think I could get along the rest of my life in comfort
if I never smelled pennyroyal again. 'Tis not a perfume that grows on ye."

"It certainly has grown on us the last week," said Rand, "and I notice that lately the mosquitos
seem to be taking a liking to it. At least they don't seem to mind it as they did at first."

It was true that the insects seemed to be growing larger and fiercer as the summer advanced,
and it became essential to secure better protection for the workers in the daytime. The miner
brought out a half dozen ordinary linen hats, and cutting up sufficient netting for the purpose
with his sailor's "palm," sewed it around each of the headgear. This, when placed on the head,
allowed a fall of netting to drop down on the shoulders, protecting the face and neck. This
was found to be a great protection, and as the boys had grown somewhat hardened to the stings
they got along very nicely.

The next job undertaken was the foundation for the sawmill itself. For this purpose, Swiftwater
had brought along some bags of cement, and a small excavation similar to that made for the
house was dug about eighteen inches deep and filled with boulders rammed in with clay. On this
a wood fire was built, and the clay burned hard, resting on this around the edges a form of
boards was placed, making a sort of bottomless box. The cement, mixed with sand and water from
the creek, was made into a concrete which was poured into the form upon the baked clay and
boulders. The plastic mass when it filled the boxlike structure to the top was smoothed off
and allowed to dry. Forty-eight hours after it had hardened into stone and the foundation was
complete.

The camp duties devolved upon the Scouts as well as the hard labor which had been a legacy
from their Indians. The miner divided up these duties as best he could, making Rand responsible
for the sanitary condition of the place, and giving such hints as he himself had gained by
a service as an enlisted man in the army and as a shipmaster. He himself took upon himself
most of the cooking, although when the ship's bread they had brought with them began to pall
upon the boys he selected Gerald for baker, and taught him how to mix a batch of baking powder
bread, and bake it in a "reflector" before an open fire.

The first batch of loaves that Gerald produced came out of the little oven so dark colored
and hard, as they had failed to rise sufficiently that they could not be eaten, and aroused
the jeers of the "baker's" fellow Scouts, who used them for several days in a game of basketball
until Gerald sneaked them out of camp and threw them into the creek. He had excellent results
with the bakings which followed, and after the chimney on the sod house was finished a fire
was built in the new fireplace that gave a steadier heat, and he even attempted a batch of
biscuit with such excellent results that they informed him they were as good as any "that mother
used to make."

Swiftwater was indefatigable in his attention to the diet and health of the Scouts, and made
an effort to vary the former as much as possible. Most of their food was canned or cured provisions,
and the miner did his best to secure fresh food. After the adventure with the bear no large
game was seen at all, but occasionally small birds were shot, and squirrels were found fairly
abundant. These, with a few small trout caught by Pepper in the creek, helped to form a pleasant
change from bacon, canned beans and what the former sailor called "salt horse," or corned beef.
The commander of the camp was especially anxious to get hold of some green vegetables, but
the time was too short to attempt to grow anything, and he spent some leisure time in the woods
trying to find some substitute. A change to green stuff is found very essential on shipboard
to prevent certain diseases that follow a too steady diet of salt and canned foods, and the
alternative where vegetables are not obtainable, is lime juice, occasional doses of which the
miner administered to the boys.

One Saturday Swiftwater suggested a half holiday, and with the remaining boat pole up to the
meadow where they had obtained the sod, and search for some wild vegetables of an edible character.
It was also suggested that as the May flies had begun to appear the party should take their
fishing tackle along and run a few miles further up the Gold and try casting off for the handsome,
brown, steelhead and brown trout that frequent the interior waters of the British Columbia
region, especially near their mountainous sources.

"Hadn't we better take some larger tackle and try for salmon?" suggested Dick. "I understand
this country is famous for salmon."

"Well, hardly," replied Swiftwater. "If we were on waters that flowed into the Pacific and
Alaskan waters we should probably find them. But the rivers hereabouts rise in the Coast range
mountains which separate us from the sea and flow northeast. The salmon is not a fresh water
fish. He lives in the most remote depths of the ocean, and only runs up the rivers during the
summer to spawn, and usually dies there. He can climb a pretty high waterfall, but I don't
think he could climb the Coast range to get into Gold Creek."

As this was the first outing they had had it was decided to take sufficient provisions and
firewood with them to last until the next day and stay over night if they found encouraging
fishing up the stream, and to return before dark on Sunday.

"While I like to make Sunday a pretty good day, when I can," said the miner, "I think that
our necessity for fresh fish and vegetables makes this trip a work of necessity."

It was decided that two of the boys should stay and guard the camp, and Rand and Jack expressed
a willingness to do so when they saw that Pepper and Dick were both anxious to get away from
the monotony of the place they had been tied up to for weeks. So with Swiftwater and Gerald
poling on one side and Don and Dick on the other, and Pepper at the long steering oar in the
rear the boat was pushed off into midstream with a bugle Scout salute from the garrison left
behind.

The day was beautiful, and nearly as warm as midsummer in New England. The trip up to the meadows
would have proven uneventful except for the unparalleled energy of Pepper, who, as Dick said,
was "always sticking his oar in at unexpected times." As the boat steered easily he attempted
to aid the polesmen by pushing at times with his long stern sweep, until at an unexpected moment
the blade of the oar slipped between two rocks and down into the soft bottom and stuck there
straight upright, dragging the bewildered Pepper, who clung to it, completely off the stern
of the boat.

The frightened young Scout, not knowing how deep the water was under him, wrapped his legs
around the sweep which remained upright, and clung to it yelling for help.

The impetus of the boat carried the craft on about twenty-five feet before it was stopped by
the current, for the polesmen had stopped work and turned around to whoop with laughter and
delight when they saw the ridiculous figure perched on the oar in midstream still crying for
rescue.

Shouting words of encouragement they let the boat drift slowly down stream again. Before they
reached him, Pepper's strength gave out, and he slid slowly down the sweep, and was preparing
to battle for his life in the icy water when his moccasins brought upon a rock in a foot of
water, and he pulled the oar loose, and as the stern of the boat reached him stepped aboard
with a foolish expression on his face, barely wet to the knees.

It would be cruel to Pepper to record in this history the sarcastic expressions of admiration
for his agility and ability "to reach out and grab trouble every time it went by," as Dick
expressed it. There were references to the "champeen pole vault of Alaska; height ten feet;
depth, twelve inches," "veteran oarsman of the Gold," "Rocked into the Cradle of the Deep,"
but the last comment which brought out the old Pepperian red through the tan and the yellow
of the mosquito "dope" was a quotation from an old boyhood rhyme made by Gerald, apropos of
"appearances."

             "Willie had a purple monkey, climbing on a
                    yellow stick,
             Willie sucked the purple monkey and it made him
                    deadly sick."

Arrived at the meadows they found the grass grown to the height of their heads and a wealth
of wild flowers such as they had never seen before. Acres of yellow poppies, wild geraniums,
bluish in color, saxifrage, magenta colored epilobium, moccasin plants and a hundred others
with familiar faces. But what pleased Swiftwater especially were the immense quantity of dandelions.

He set the boys at work gathering all the plants they could secure, while himself began to
hunt for a peculiar wild onion, which he finally found in abundance. He also found sorrel,
both the tops and root of which are pleasant to the taste. They half filled the boat with these
and other harmless edible plants, and then late in the afternoon started to pole up the river
to the fishing grounds, intending to try for the trout in his most amenable season, the early
evening.

After the boat had pulled away from the camp, Rand and Jack cleared up the remains of the dinner
and put things to rights, after which Rand said:

"I say, Jack, I'm going to indulge in a little luxury--a hot bath. This bathing in the creek
is all right, but that water feels as if it came right out of the snow, and I can't get it
to take hold on this 'dope' stain on my skin at all.

"How are you going to do it? We didn't include anything like a bathtub in our luggage you know,
and we haven't anything big enough to heat more than a few gallons of water."

"I'll show you; give me a hand and I'll rig up a bath big enough for both of us." They went
to the tent and got the biggest of the tarpaulins lying there, and taking it to the two seven-foot
sawhorses which the Indian sawyers had used. Placing the two close together they threw the
ends over the horses and fastened them, allowing the middle to hang down almost to the ground.
By drawing the sides a little tighter than the middle of the ends, they formed a sort of loose
bag. While Jack made up a hot fire in the fireplace, into which he dumped a dozen boulders
from the creek, Rand carried water enough to fill the "bath tub" in the tarpaulin, the texture
of which was so thick and so closely woven that very little of it dripped out. As the boulders
became red hot, Rand and Jack brought the hand barrow used to cart stones from the stream,
with a little sand in the bottom, and rolling the stones into it carried them to the "tub"
and dumped them in. They soon had the water at a boiling heat, and quickly stripping both tumbled
in and were soon luxuriating the first hot dip they had enjoyed since leaving the hotel in Skagway.

They were engaged in an effort with strong soap and sand, trying to remove their lately acquired
complexions, when the sound of oars and poles on the river reached them. They were considerably
back of the camp in the timber, and could not see the landing from the "bathroom," but supposed
the sounds were by their comrades returning. They stepped from the tarpaulin to go to the creek
for a cold plunge as a finishing touch, when over the bank swarmed the six Siwashes who had
so lately deserted them. They were unarmed and were driven by three men with guns. The two
boys seeing the strangers were about to step aside for their clothing when they were ordered
to stand and throw up their hands. The three newcomers were Dublin, Rae and Monkey.

CHAPTER XI.

AT THE MERCY OF THE PEST.

"Sorry ye'r not in receivin' costume, but that won't make no difference. We got off down to
the mouth of the creek when the steamer went down and started to walk up when we met these
Siwash comin' down with the boat, and concluded it was just what we needed. We held 'em up,
and finally persuaded them to pole us back up. They wouldn't talk much at first, but finally
told us what ye were doin' up here. We intended to git here at night and su'prise ye a little,
but when we stopped at the bend just below we saw the other fellers pushin' up stream, and
concluded to come right on and su'prise ye this afternoon. Rae, you and Monkey herd them Injuns
into that shack over there, and let Monkey stand watch on them. Then you come back here and
we'll take care of these young Scouts."

"What are you doing up here?" asked Rand. "What do you want of us?"

