The naval captain finally said he would not open fire until next morning; provided I would
report the circumstances to General Scott. I told him it was not usual for me to report my
action direct to the General-in-Chief: but, I would report all the facts to the Chief Engineer
as soon as I was relieved and had returned to camp, and he would report them to General Scott.

When I commenced to make my report to the Chief Engineer he stopped me; and said he was instructed
to order me to report in person, to General Scott as soon as I reached camp.

I obeyed the order; and was very coldly and formally told by "The General": He had been informed
it was my fault that the naval battery had not opened fire against Vera Cruz that afternoon.
I answered: "I did prevent the fire being opened; but, that act was not a fault on my part;
and I can convince you of the latter fact if you will give me a hearing".

He replied--still very coldly--"I hope you can do so". I then related to him, in full, all
that had occurred--as briefly stated above--between the commander of the naval detachment and
myself.

My reasons for opposing the opening of the fire of the battery seemed to produce little or
no favorable impression on General Scott until I reached that part of the narrative in which
I replied to the naval captain's statement that he meant General Patterson when he said "the
General". I gave General Scott the exact words I had used in replying to the naval commander.
At this he rose from his seat--came to where I was standing, and clasping one of my hands in
both of his; said: "Thank God I have young officers with heads on their shoulders and who know
how to use them". He added: "your opinion, and your action, in this matter, would do credit
to a Field Marshal of France"!

To which I made no reply, but thought to myself: "If there was a sergeant in the engineer company
who, in view of the plain facts of this case, would not have known that the naval battery ought
not to open fire that afternoon, I would reduce him to the ranks before night."

The following extracts from my official report of these operations may not be amiss in this
connection:

"Whenever we have acted as a company I have been most ably and efficiently supported by Lieutenants
McClellan and Foster; and I am proud to say that the non-commissioned officers and men of the
company have shown great willingness and skill in the discharge of the important duties assigned
them. Great part of our labors have been performed under fire. On such occasions I have had
every reason to be satisfied with the cool deportment and conduct of the company.

"In conclusion I regret that I have to state, a serious blow was inflicted on the military
pride of the engineer company in not allowing them to participate in the ceremonies of the
surrender, when it was well understood that the troops having had most to do in the attack
were selected to take a prominent part in the proceedings."

We all felt that, if our distinguished Captain had been with us, we would have been called
on to take part in those ceremonies.

The Chief Engineer, Colonel Joseph G. Totten, in his report of operations against Vera Cruz,
says: "The obligation lies upon me also to speak of the highly meritorious deportment and valuable
services of the Sappers and Miners, [engineer company] attached to the expedition. Strenuous
as were their exertions, their number proved to be too few, in comparison with our need of
such aid. Had their number been four-fold greater, there is no doubt the labors of the army
would have been materially lessened and the result expedited." (Ex. Doc. No. 1, p. 245).

FOOTNOTE:

[2] In illustration of the character of the work done during the first two or three days after
the landing, the following quotations from General Scott's official report are not irrelevant.
He says:

"The environs of the city outside the fire of its guns, and those of the castle, are broken
into innumerable hills of loose sand, from twenty to two hundred and fifty feet in height,
with almost impassable forests of chaparral between." "In extending the line of investment
around the city the troops, for three days have performed the heaviest labors in getting over
the hills and cutting through the intervening forests." ("Ex. Doc. No. 1" p. 216.)

CHAPTER III.

AFTER THE SURRENDER OF VERA CRUZ; TO THE OCCUPATION OF PUEBLA.

From the capitulation of Vera Cruz, on the 29th of March, until we left that place on the 13th
of April, the engineer company was principally engaged in assisting engineer officers in making
surveys of the fortifications and surrounding ground, in dismantling our own batteries, magazines,
&c.; and aiding the Quartermaster's Department in landing and placing in depot the general
engineer train of the army.

In the meantime, on the 7th of April, I reported, through the senior engineer, to the Adjutant-General
of the forces, that the engineer company would be ready to move with the advance division of
the army on the 8th, if transportation for its train could be furnished. Transportation, together
with orders to move with the advance division, were applied for. "The reply was that General
Scott would, at the proper time, order such transportation for the engineer company as he deemed
sufficient--and would, when it was his pleasure, order the company forward."[3]

Twiggs's division left on the 8th; Patterson's on the 9th; on the 11th Worth's division was
ordered to move on the 13th; Quitman's brigade had been previously sent on an expedition to
Alvarado; the garrison of Vera Cruz was designated. Thus, every soldier in the army, except
the engineer company, had received instructions either to go forward or to remain.

On the night of the 11th, in my evening report to the Adjutant of engineers, I asked the Senior
Engineer[4] then serving with the army; when and where the engineer company was ordered; what
I was ordered to do; and what transportation, if any, I was to have.

On these subjects not one word had been stated, in either written or printed orders, that had
come to my knowledge. On the morning of the 12th, General Scott consented that the engineer
company should, if possible, move with the General Headquarters, which left at 4 P. M. that day.

I then applied direct to the Chief Quartermaster for transportation. He told me that it was
impossible to let me have any teams at that time--all the good teams had been taken by the
army, General Worth was getting the last.

A positive order from headquarters, was then procured by the Adjutant of engineers, requiring
the Quartermaster's Department to furnish transportation for the engineer train, etc. The teams,
such as they were, came into our camp about dark on the 12th. That night the wagons were loaded;
and we started half an hour before daylight on the 13th.

The mules were wild, the teamsters could not speak English, some of them had never harnessed
an animal; and it was soon apparent that the men of the company would have to put their muskets
in the wagons and give their undivided attention to the mules. At 2 P. M., after struggling
through the deep sand, west of the city, we struck the firm beach, and could make better progress,
for about three miles, to Vergara, where the road leaves the coast, and again passes through
deep sand.

In the meantime one team had become broken down and useless before we got beyond the city.
In order to procure another I had to take some of my own men into the mule pen. Three Mexicans
were given me to lasso the mules, and five men were required to put them in harness--seasick,
wild, little animals. One teamster deserted; one had his hand, and another had his leg broken;
and a number of mules in different teams, were crippled.

At Vergara, half the load of each wagon was thrown out, before we entered upon steep ridges
and deep sand immediately after leaving the beach. All the men were engaged in helping along
the half loaded wagons. That night we slept in the sand ridges.

On the 14th, we reached Santa Fé, eight miles from Vera Cruz, threw out the half loads, and
returned to Vergara. Before we again reached the beach, the men had actually to roll the empty
wagons up every hill, the mules not being able to drag them. By 10 P. M., we were again at
Santa Fé, having killed three mules, and the men being worked nearly to death. Fortunately
for us, several good mules that had escaped from preceding army trains, came out of the chaparral
to our feed troughs, were caught, and "pressed" into engineer service.

From Santa Fé the road was much better, but at every hill the men had to take to the wheels
and help the mules--this too, after throwing out half the load at the foot of some of the steeper
hills. In this way, we reached the National Bridge, at 3 P. M. on the 16th.

General Worth's division was about starting from that place to make a night march to Plan Del
Rio. He informed me that our army would attack the enemy, at the Cerro Gordo Pass, on the afternoon
of the 17th; and said he desired that the engineer company should accompany his division. I
informed him that my men and animals were utterly exhausted and could not go any further without
several hours rest. But I assured him that we would be in Plan Del Rio by noon of the next
day. We rested at the National Bridge until 11.30 P. M., on the 16th and reached Plan Del Rio,
about 11 A. M., on the 17th.

AT CERRO GORDO. Soon after our arrival at Plan Del Rio, I was ordered to detail an officer
and ten men of the engineer company to report to General Pillow for temporary service with
his division. Lieutenant McClellan was placed in charge of that detail.

With the remainder of the company, I was directed to report to Captain R. E. Lee, then acting
as Chief Engineer of Twiggs's division; who instructed me to allow the men to rest, whilst
I accompanied him to the front, where Twiggs's division was about going into action. Captain
Lee informed General Twiggs that the engineer company was at Plan Del Rio, and had been ordered
to serve with his division. I was directed by General Twiggs to return at once, and bring the
company to the front as soon as possible.

The action of the 17th was over before the engineer company arrived. Captain Lee directed me,
with a portion of my men and a large detailed working party, to construct a battery that night,
in a position he had selected on the heights we had gained that afternoon. This was a work
of some difficulty, owing to the rocky nature of the ground and the small depth of earth--in
some places none, and nowhere more than a few inches.

About 3 A. M. on the 18th I sent one of my men to the foot of the hill to awaken Lieutenant
Foster, who was sleeping there with the company, and tell him he must relieve me for the rest
of the night.

After putting Foster in charge I started to join the company--and became sound asleep whilst
walking down the hill. Stumbling into a quarry hole, I found myself sprawling on a dead Mexican
soldier--his glazed eyes wide open, within a few inches of mine. For a moment I felt that horror
of a corpse which many persons have, at times, experienced. The probability that, in a short
time after daylight--in storming the strong position of the enemy--I might be as dead as the
man upon whom I was lying, forced itself upon me.

Before I could regain my feet streams of men were rushing past me in the darkness; and I heard
and recognised, the voice of Lieutenant Peter V. Hagner, of the Ordnance, calling in no measured
tone or language, upon these stampeded men to stop. Whilst promptly aiding Hagner to bring
the fugitives to a halt, I forgot the dead Mexican, and the whole train of thought connected
with the corpse.

When something like order was restored on the hillside I learned from Lieutenant Hagner that
he had been detailed to take one of our heavy guns up the hill to the battery. A regiment of
Volunteers had been placed at his disposal to man the drag-ropes. Their arms had been left
at the foot of the hill. On finding his way blocked by trees, Hagner had sent to procure axes
from the engineer train; and in the meantime the regiment at the drag-ropes had been permitted
to lie down. Of course they went to sleep. Suddenly awakened by a false alarm that the Mexicans
were upon them, they rushed down the hill to get their arms. Hagner soon procured the required
axes and the gun was delivered at the battery in good time.

At daylight I was again at the battery. A slight epaulment had been finished for three pieces
of artillery, the platforms were laid, and the guns in position. I was then instructed by Captain
Lee, to send ten men to report to him for special service; to order Lieutenant Foster with
eight additional men, to report to him (Lee) for the purpose of opening a road for the light
artillery around the foot of the heights; and I was ordered, with the rest of the company,
to report to Colonel Harney, who was then in command of Persifor Smith's brigade, of Twiggs'
division.

I was instructed to accompany that brigade when it moved forward to attack the enemy in position
on a hill immediately in front of, and higher than that on which our battery had been constructed.
The Mexicans were in strong force on the higher hill.

From our lower position we could not clearly see their lines nor determine how they were fortified.
The hill they occupied was flat on top and their lines were set back from the crest of the
precipitous slope which faced us. The storming brigade was ordered to halt and reform just
before reaching the top of the higher hill. At this point they were below the plane of the
enemy's fire, and were when lying down, perfectly protected. In this position they were ordered
to rest, until the order should be given to rise, charge and carry the enemy's works by open
assault.

When the line was thus formed, I requested Colonel Harney not to give the order to charge until
I could go on the plateau, get a clear view of the enemy's works, and report their character.
I soon informed him that their main line was not more than forty or fifty yards from where
our men were then lying, that the fortifications were very incomplete, offered no effective
obstacle, and we could dash over the works without a halt. I then ordered my men to drop their
tools and use their muskets.

Whilst I was making this report to Colonel Harney, our attention was drawn to quite a sharp
fire that the Mexicans had suddenly opened from a point close to the left flank and in the
prolongation of our line. I told him I was certain there were no fortifications in that position;
and I had seen no troops there. The fire increased from that direction, and Colonel Harney
ordered me to proceed rapidly with my men to the left of our line, direct two companies on
that flank to wheel at once, to the left; and when he gave the order to charge, these two companies
and the engineers would move to the left against the force that was firing upon us from that side.

These dispositions on our left were made in a very few moments, and the order to charge was
given immediately thereafter. The brigade sprang up, dashed over the short intervening space,
and were almost instantly inside of the Mexican incomplete works.

After a short, but bloody, hand to hand struggle, in which bayonets, swords, pistols, and butts
of muskets were freely used, the Mexicans retreated in great disorder. The troops that had
been faced to the left just before the order to charge was given, immediately found themselves
in the midst of a detachment of Mexicans, in a nest of surface quarry holes which gave them
protection from distant fire and effectually concealed them from view until we were among them.
The struggle here was hand to hand, and sharp for a short time. But they were driven from their
quarry holes, back on their main line which gave way, and their own guns were turned upon them
before they could get off the field.

Thus, Persifor Smith's brigade, under Colonel Harney, carried, and held possession of, the
key-point of the battlefield of Cerro Gordo.

After the battle the various details of engineer soldiers joined in the pursuit of the enemy,
were collected together at Encerro, and the company remained with Twiggs division until it
reached Jalapa. At this place it was furnished by the Chief Quartermaster with the finest mule
teams in the army. This gave great satisfaction to the men who had struggled so hard to get
the engineer train forward, through deep sand, from Vera Cruz. To add to their elation, they
had now left the "hot lands" of the coast behind them, had reached a temperate climate, 4,000
feet above the level of the sea, had escaped the dread vomito of Vera Cruz, and had participated
closely in the great victory gained by Scott's army at Cerro Gordo.

From Jalapa, Worth's division led the way, the engineer company at its head. During the halt
of a few days, at Perote, I procured the transfer of First Sergeant David H. Hastings, from
the Third Artillery to the engineer company. He was considered one of the best sergeants in
the army, and was at once, made first sergeant of the engineer company. Previous to that time
we had only an acting first sergeant. The company entered Puebla with Worth's division, and
on the arrival of General Scott at that place we were again ordered to report to general headquarters.

During the three months delay of the army, at Puebla, awaiting reinforcements before moving
into the valley of Mexico, the regular instruction of the company--both as infantry and as
engineer soldiers--was resumed. Besides the "School of the Sapper" as taught them before they
left the United States, the men were now instructed, theoretically and practically, in the
"School of the Miner". They were engaged too in work upon the fortifications of Puebla; and
had practice in loop-holing walls, and received instruction for placing towns, villages, etc.
in a state of defense. Whilst at Puebla the company received the sad news of the death of their
Captain. (Ex. Doc. No. 1, p. 263).

General Twiggs, in his official report of the same battle, states: "Lieutenant G. W. Smith,
of the engineers, with his company of Sappers and Miners, joined Colonel Harney's command in
the assault on the enemy's main work, and killed two men with his own hand". (Ex. Doc. No.
1, p. 278).

In Colonel Harney's official report of this battle it is stated: "Lieutenant G. W. Smith, of
the engineers, with his company, rendered very efficient service in his own department, as
well as in the storming of the fort". (Ex. Doc. No. 1, p. 281).

FOOTNOTES:

[3] Taken from my official report for the month of April, 1847. G. W. S.

[4] Colonel Joseph G. Totten. Chief Engineer, had left Vera Cruz and returned to his duties
in Washington City. Major John L. Smith then became Senior Engineer with General Scott's forces.

CHAPTER IV.

FROM PUEBLA TO CHURUBUSCO.

On the 7th of August, 1847, the advance of General Scott's army, Twiggs' division, the engineer
company leading, left Puebla and commenced the forward movement into the valley of Mexico.
The company served with that division, until Worth's division was placed in the lead during
the turning movement made by the army around Lake Chalco. In that movement the engineer company
was at the head of Worth's division.

The road ran between the western border of the lake and a high range of hills which, in some
places, rose from the water's edge. The road was narrow and rough; and had been obstructed
by rolling immense masses of stone upon it from the almost overhanging cliffs. These obstructions
were of considerable height; they completely blocked our way; and at several points ditches
had been cut across the road.

General Worth directed the Light Battalion, under Colonel C. F. Smith, to advance and drive
off the Mexicans who were firing upon us--ordered me to make the road passable for artillery
and wagons as soon as possible--and notified me that the leading brigade would assist in that
work when called upon. I immediately asked for a detail of 500 men; put them to work, at once,
under the direction of the officers and men of the engineer company, and everything was progressing
rapidly, when, to my surprise, Lieutenant J. C. Pemberton, aide to General Worth, came up to
me and insisted that the whole character of the operations should be changed. Whilst he was
elaborating his views I cut him short by asking if he had any orders for me from General Worth.
In the meanwhile the latter had reached the front, without either Pemberton or I being aware
of his presence. Before the aide had time to reply to my question, General Worth, in a very
peremptory tone called out "Come away from there Mr. Pemberton, and let Mr. Smith alone. This
is his business--not yours".

In a few hours, the road was put in such condition that, by the use of drag-ropes and men at
the wheels, we were enabled to pass artillery and wagons over the obstructions; and the column
moved on without further material delay.

After reaching San Augustine, and passing beyond, the forward movement, now on the main road,
or causeway, leading from Acapulco to the city of Mexico, was checked by fortifications about
six hundred yards in our front. These fortifications crossed the road at San Antonio, and were
occupied by the enemy in large force. The afternoon of the 18th of August, was spent in reconnoitring
that position.

About 3 A. M., on the 19th, I received an order to return to San Augustine with the engineer
company and its train. In making our way from the head of Worth's division, along the main
road, towards the rear, it was somewhat difficult to arouse the men of that division, who were
sleeping on the road, and get them to clear the way for the passage of our wagons.

No explanation of the order for our return had been given. Just after the dawn of day, and
before we were clear of the division, two soldiers on the side of the road, were lighting a
fire for the purpose of preparing coffee. As we passed them, one said to the other: "We are
not going to fight to-day: Twiggs's division is going to fight". The other of the two replied,
sneeringly: "What do you know about it?" To which the first answered: "Don't you see those
young engineer officers, with the engineer company and their wagons? They are going back, to
be sent on another road with Twiggs's division, we are not going to fight to-day". As we passed
out of hearing of the two soldiers I said to McClellan, who was riding by my side: "Did you
hear that?" He answered "Yes and I consider it the handsomest compliment that could be paid
to the engineer company. The private soldiers of this army understand that we are sent where
the hardest work and hardest fighting are to be done--and always at the head of the leading
division".

We reached San Augustine a little after sunrise, August 19. I will now quote direct from my
official report of these operations.

"Orders were [at once] received, from the headquarters of the army, directing me to report
to Captain R. E. Lee, of the Corps of Engineers, with the company under my command, and [I]
was ordered by Captain Lee to take ten of my men, and select certain tools from the general
engineer train, in addition to those carried along with the company. I turned over the command
of the engineer company to Lieutenant McClellan, who, under the direction of Captain Lee, proceeded
at once to commence the work on the road from San Augustine to Contreras." "In about one hour
and a half, I rejoined the command with the necessary implements for [a large working force
in] opening the road. Captain Lee directed me to retain the men I then had with me, and to
take charge of a certain section of the road, to bring forward my wagons as rapidly as possible,
and to see that the road was practicable before I passed any portion of it. At this time my
company was divided into five sections, each under an engineer officer directing operations
on [different portions of] the road".

AT CONTRERAS. General Scott, in his official report, says, "By three o'clock, this afternoon,
[August 19th.] the advanced divisions came to a point where the new road could only be continued
under the direct fire of 22 pieces of the enemy's artillery [most of them of large calibre]
placed in a strong entrenched camp to oppose our operations, and surrounded by every advantage
of ground, besides immense bodies of cavalry and infantry".

In my official report it is stated that; "The head of the column having halted, I reached the
front in time to receive instructions from Captain Lee to halt the company, collect the scattered
parties, and to examine the road inclining to the left, while he went to the right. Lieutenants
McClellan and Foster had been for some hours detached. Having gone about four hundred yards,
I heard just ahead sharp firing of musketry; and immediately after met Captain McClellan, of
the topographical engineers, and Lieutenant McClellan, of the engineer company, returning on
horseback--they had come suddenly on a strong picket, and were fired upon. Lieutenant McClellan
had his horse shot under him. Information of the enemy's picket being in our vicinity was reported
to General Twiggs, who ordered a regiment of rifles forward. There being several engineer officers
present when the rifles came to the front, I returned to my company, which had been for a short
time left without an officer. Captain Lee about this time, sent back for Captain Magruder's
battery, which was conducted by Lieutenant Foster, and placed in position by Lieutenant McClellan".

"The Third Infantry was ordered to support the battery. I moved forward with this regiment,
taking my company and pack mules, loaded with tools, and placed my command under such shelter
as could be found on the left, near the position occupied by the Third Infantry, and in rear
of the battery. Meeting with Lieutenant McClellan, I directed him still to remain with the
battery, but to order Lieutenant Foster to rejoin the company. In a few moments this officer
reported to me, and brought information that the troops were preparing to storm the enemy's
position."

"Riley's brigade had moved in advance by our right. Leaving the mules and tools, I moved the
company forward, falling in with the brigade of General [Persifor] Smith. Captain Lee being
present, with his consent, I requested the General to allow the engineer company to fight in
his brigade. He told me to take the head of the column, and to direct myself towards a church
in a village, on the left of the enemy's battery--between it and the city. Whilst passing down
the hill and crossing the ravine, the enemy were rapidly appearing [reinforcements from the
direction of the city] on an eminence beyond the church. General Smith directed me to take
my company as an escort, reconnoitre the village, and find out whether Colonel Riley's brigade
was in the vicinity. I continued some distance beyond the church; and returned without seeing
the brigade under Colonel Riley, which had, as I understood afterwards, advanced very near
[the rear of] the enemy's battery. The reinforcements of the enemy upon the hill in our front
were rapidly increasing. They had at this time probably ten thousand men, on the height, formed
in line of battle. Towards dark Colonel Riley's brigade returned and joined the troops under
the command of General Smith: too late, however, to allow time for forming the troops to attack
the enemy [on the hill] in our front. Lieutenant McClellan joined me about this time in our
movement on the village. Lieutenant Foster, who was on horseback, became detached with a few
of the men, and did not rejoin me until after the action on the morning of the 20th."

"General Smith, very soon after dark, informed me that the enemy's main battery would be stormed,
[in rear], at daylight on the morning of the 20th. This would open the road for artillery,
and our communications with [the main army under] General Scott would be re-established. I
received orders to hold the engineer company ready to move at 3 A. M. and to take my place
on the right of the rifles. On the morning of the 20th there was considerable delay in the
movement of the brigade [raw troops] under General Cadwallader, by which General Smith's brigade,
now under the command of Major Dimmick, First Artillery, was detained very nearly an hour.
Part of the Eleventh Regiment [Cadwallader's brigade] lost its way, caused the Voltigeurs to
halt, thus throwing the brigade under Major Dimmick still further from Riley's, which had moved
very soon after 3 o'clock. At the request of General Cadwallader, Major Dimmick ordered me
to turn over the command of my company to the officer next in rank, and to move forward and
conduct the troops that had lost their way. The whole force was by sunrise, or little after,
halted in a sheltered position in rear of the enemy's battery". (Ex. Doc. No. 1, Appendix p. 67).

I reported the cause of the delay to General Smith and requested instructions to rejoin my
company; but he said he desired that I should remain with him for a while. By his order, the
three brigades were soon put in motion. I again asked him to permit me to rejoin my proper
command. He replied "Not yet" and added: "I will soon give you instructions".

Because of a dense fog the delay in reaching the position in rear of the Mexican works was
no material disadvantage. The fog began to disappear about the time I reported to General Smith.
He was then on a ridge at a point, about 600 yards in rear of the Mexican works. The three
brigades were passing around the extremity of that ridge, several hundred yards in rear of
the General. All was quiet in the lines of the enemy. There was another ridge south of the
one on which General Smith was standing, and separated from it by a deep and very narrow valley.
The sides of both ridges were precipitous; their tops sloped gently to the enemy's line.

General Smith informed me that Riley's brigade would pass partly beyond the extremity of the
second ridge; then face to the left, and attack a strong Mexican detachment which was in position
on that ridge, several hundred yards in rear of their works. Riley was ordered to drive that
detachment and pursue it closely into the Mexican main lines. Cadwallader's brigade would go
on when Riley faced to the left; and, as soon as he passed Riley, Cadwallader would also face
to the left and come into action on Riley's right. Smith's own brigade would turn to the left
before reaching the extremity of the second ridge. The Third Infantry and First Artillery would
advance in the deep valley between the two ridges; whilst the Rifle Regiment, with the engineer
company leading, would ascend the steep slope of the second ridge, and get into position on
the flank, or rear, of the Mexican detachment which Riley was to attack in front. In the meantime
the head of Smith's brigade had come within view, near the foot of the steep slope of the second
ridge, and was moving towards the Mexican main line.

General Smith pointed out to me the route to be taken to reach the top of the second ridge;
and ordered that the engineer company and rifles should bear to the right, and on getting near
the Mexican detachment, remain concealed, and quiet, until Riley's brigade became well engaged;
then join in the attack and pursuit of that detachment.

With these specific instructions, I was ordered to rejoin my company; and Lieutenant Beauregard
was directed to take general charge of the movements of Smith's brigade. When Beauregard and
I reached the top of the second ridge we found we were 50 yards, or less, in rear of the Mexican
detachment, which was facing Riley. All was quiet. In a very few moments Riley's fire commenced.

The engineer company, followed by the rifle regiment was then forming in line, under cover,
in rear of the Mexican detachment, whose attention was concentrated on Riley, in their front.
We were between that detachment and the Mexican works. A small portion only of the Rifle Regiment
was in line, when the firing with Riley became very severe, and the order was given for the
engineer company and rifles to rise and fire into the backs of the enemy. That fire was very
destructive. The Mexicans were astounded; faced squarely about, and in a moment precipitately
retreated.

In my official report it is stated that: "Colonel Riley's advance became engaged with a very
strong picket, some 300 yards or more from the rear of the [enemy's] battery, near the crest
of the ridge; the engineers and rifles came up at once in position to take the picket in rear,
delivered a deadly volley within 50 yards, cheered and rushed on. The enemy's force fled; the
head of our column crossed the line of their retreat, which brought the right of the column
[engineer company and rifles] conducted by Lieutenant Beauregard, in contact with the Seventh
Infantry, which formed the left of Colonel Riley's brigade. I went into the enemy's battery
with the colors of the Seventh Infantry, my company immediately behind me. The enemy, or at
least a portion of them, stood to their guns well, and delivered a fire of grape into our troops
when the head of the column was within 25 yards of their pieces. Our troops followed the retreating
enemy without halting until they were beyond the reach of our musketry. Lieutenant Beauregard
then strongly advised that the troops be halted and formed. A short time afterwards General
Twiggs, came up. The pursuit was resumed. At San Angel we had an unimportant skirmish". (Ex.
Doc. No. 1, Appendix, p. 68).

The following additional quotations from my official report are not deemed irrelevant:

"In the action of the morning of the 20th--the battle of Contreras--my men acted with great
gallantry; their promptness in obeying every order, and the effect with which they used their
muskets, entitle them all to the highest praise. In my report to the chief engineer in the
field, I shall make special mention of all who, to my knowledge, particularly distinguished
themselves. I will mention here, First Sergeant D. H. Hastings, of the engineer company, who,
by his gallant conduct and soldiery bearing, in this action, richly deserves promotion to the
rank of commissioned officer in the army. Sergeant Hastings was slightly wounded by my side
in the battery. Sergeant [S. H.] Starr attracted my particular attention by his gallant and
efficient conduct. Sergeant Starr was the ranking non-commissioned officer with the detachment
of the engineer company which accompanied Colonel Harney's command at the battle of Cerro Gordo.
I would recommend him for promotion [to the grade of commissioned officer in the army]."

