CONTENTS

Introduction                                 7 Chapter I.     The Scientific Position     
10 Chapter II.    Materials and Conditions     21 Chapter III.   The Faculty of Seership  
29 Chapter IV.    Preliminaries and Practice   39 Chapter V.     Kinds of Vision          
51 Chapter VI.    Obstacles to Clairvoyance    59 Chapter VII.   Symbolism                
67 Chapter VIII.  Allied Psychic Phases        76 Chapter IX.    Experience and Use       
84 Conclusion                                  93

INTRODUCTION

Few words will be necessary by way of preface to this book, which is designed as an introduction
to a little understood and much misrepresented subject.

I have not here written anything which is intended to displace the observations of other authors
on this subject, nor will it be found that anything has been said subversive of the conclusions
arrived at by experimentalists who have essayed the study of clairvoyant phenomena in a manner
that is altogether commendable, and who have sought to place the subject on a demonstrable
and scientific basis. I refer to the proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research.

In the following pages I have endeavoured to indicate the nature of the faculty of Second Sight
or Clairvoyance, the means of its development, the use of suitable media or agents for this
purpose, and the kind of results that may be expected to follow a regulated effort in this
direction. I have also sought to show that the development of the psychic faculties may form
an orderly step in the process of human unfoldment and perfectibility.

As far as the nature and scope of this little work will allow, I have sought to treat the subject
on a broad and general basis rather than pursue more particular and possibly more attractive
scientific lines. What I have here said is the result of a personal experience of some years
in this and other forms of psychic development and experimentation. My conclusions are given
for what they are worth, and I have no wish to persuade my readers to my view of the nature
and source of these abnormal phenomena. The reader is at liberty to form his own theory in
regard to them, but such theory should be inclusive of all the known facts. The theories depending
on hypnotic suggestion may be dismissed as inadequate. There appear to remain only the inspirational
theory of direct revelation and the theory of the world-soul enunciated by the Occultists.
I have elected in favour of the latter for reasons which, I think, will be conspicuous to those
who read these pages.

I should be the last to allow the study of psychism to usurp the legitimate place in life of
intellectual and spiritual pursuits, and I look with abhorrence upon the flippant use made
of the psychic faculties by a certain class of pseudo-occultists who serve up this kind of
thing with their five o'clock tea. But I regard an ordered psychism as a most valuable accessory
to intellectual and spiritual development and as filling a natural place in the process of
unfoldment between that intellectualism that is grounded in the senses and that higher intelligence
which receives its light from within. From this view-point the following pages are written,
and will, I trust, prove helpful.

CHAPTER I.

THE SCIENTIFIC POSITION

It would perhaps be premature to make any definite pronouncement as to the scientific position
in regard to the psychic phenomenon known as "scrying," and certainly presumptuous on my part
to cite an authority from among the many who have examined this subject, since all are not
agreed upon the nature and source of the observed phenomena. Their names are, moreover, already
identified with modern scientific research and theory, so that to associate them with experimental
psychology would be to lend colour to the idea that modern science has recognized this branch
of knowledge. Nothing, perhaps, is further from the fact, and while it cannot in any way be
regarded as derogatory to the highest scientist to be associated with others, of less scientific
attainment but of equal integrity, in this comparatively new field of enquiry, it may lead
to popular error to institute a connection. It is still fresh in the mind how the Darwinian
hypothesis was utterly misconceived by the popular mind, the suggestion that man was descended
from the apes being generally quoted as a correct expression of Darwin's theory, whereas he
never suggested any such thing, but that man and the apes had a common ancestor, which makes
of the ape rather a degenerate lemur than a human ancestor. Other and more prevalent errors
will occur to the reader, these being due to the use of what is called "the evidence of the
senses"; and of all criteria the evidence of sensation is perhaps the most faulty. Logical
inference from deductive or inductive reasoning has often enough been a good monitor to sense-perception,
and has, moreover, pioneered the man of science to correct knowledge on more than one occasion.
But as far as we know or can learn from the history of human knowledge, our senses have been
the chiefest source of error. It is with considerable caution that the scientist employs the
evidence from sense alone, and in the study of experimental psychology it is the sense which
has first to be corrected, and which, in fact, forms the great factor in the equation. A person
informs me that he can see a vision in the crystal ball before him, and although I am in the
same relation with the "field" as he, I cannot see anything except accountable reflections.
This fact does not give any room for contradicting him or any right to infer that it is all
imagination. It is futile to say the vision does not exist. If he sees it, it does exist so
far as he is concerned. There is no more a universal community of sensation than of thought.
When I am at work my own thought is more real than any impression received through the sense
organs. It is louder than the babel of voices or the strains of instrumental music, and more
conspicuous than any object upon which the eye may fall. These external impressions are admitted
or shut out at will. I then know that my thought is as real as my senses, that the images of
thought are as perceptible as those exterior to it and in every way as objective and real.
The thought-form has this advantage, however, that it can be given a durable or a temporary
existence, and can be taken about with me without being liable to impost as "excess luggage."
In the matter of evidence in psychological questions, therefore, sense perceptions are only
second-rate criteria and ought to be received with caution.

Almost all persons dream, and while dreaming they see and hear, touch and taste, without questioning
for a moment the reality of these experiences. The dreaming person loses sight of the fact
that he is in a bedroom of a particular house, that he has certain relations with others sleeping
in the same house. He loses sight of the fact that his name is, let us say, Henry, and that
he is famous for the manufacture of a particular brand of soap or cheese. For him, and as long
as it lasts, the dream is the one reality. Now the question of the philosopher has always been:
which is the true dream, the sleeping dream or the waking dream? The fact that the one is continuous
of itself while the other is not, and that we always fall into a new dream but always wake
to the same reality, has given a permanent value to the waking or external life, and an equally
fictitious one to the interior or dreaming life. But what if the dream life became more or
less permanent to the exclusion of all other memories and sensations? We should then get a
case of insanity in which hallucination would be symptomic. (The dream state is more or less
permanent with certain poetical temperaments, and if there is any insanity attaching to it
at all, it consists in the inability to react.) Imagination, deep thought and grief are as
much anaesthetic as chloroform. But the closing of the external channels of sensation is usually
the signal for the opening of the psychic, and from all the evidence it would seem that the
psychic sense is more extensive, acuter and in every way more dependable than the physical.
I never yet have met the man or woman whose impaired eyesight required that he or she should
use glasses in order to see while asleep. That they do see is common experience, and that they
see farther, and therefore better, with the psychic sense than with the physical has been often
proved. Emanuel Swedenborg saw a fire in Stockholm when he was resident in England and gave
evidence of it before the vision was confirmed by news from Sweden. A lady of my acquaintance
saw and described a fire taking place at a country seat about 150 miles away, the incident
being true to the minutest details, many of which were exceptional and in a single instance
tragic. The psychic sense is younger than the physical, as the soul is younger than the body,
and its faculty continues unimpaired long after old age and disease have made havoc of the
earthly vestment. The soul is younger at a thousand years than the body is at sixty. Let it
be admitted upon evidence that there are two sorts of sense perception, the physical and the
psychical, and that in some persons the latter is as much in evidence as the former. We have
to enquire then what relations the crystal or other medium has to the development and exercise
of the clairvoyant faculty. We know comparatively little about atomic structure in relation
to nervous organism. The atomicity of certain chemical bodies does not inform us as to why
one should be a deadly poison and another perfectly innocuous. We regard different bodies as
congeries of atoms, but it is a singular fact that of two bodies containing exactly the same
elements in the same proportions the one is poisonous and the other harmless. The only difference
between them is the atomic arrangement.

The atomic theory refers all bodies to one homogeneous basic substance, which has been termed
protyle (proto-hyle), from which, by means of a process loosely defined as differentiation,
all the elements are derived. These elements are the result of atomic arrangement. The atoms
have various vibrations, the extent of which is called the mean free path of vibration; greatest
in hydrogen and least in the densest element. All matter is indestructible, but at the same
time convertible, and these facts, together with the absolute association of matter and force,
lead to the conclusion that every change of matter implies a change of force. Matter, therefore,
is ever living and active, and there is no such thing as dead matter anywhere. The hylo-idealists
have therefore regarded all matter as but the ultimate expression of spirit, and primarily
of a spiritual origin.

