    "So one might go on. But you begin to see now one set of
    reasons at least why every one has not good comfortable boots.
    There could be plenty of leather; and there is certainly
    plenty of labour and quite enough intelligence in the world to
    manage that and a thousand other desirable things. But this
    institution of Private Property in land and naturally produced
    things, these obstructive claims that prevent you using
    ground, or moving material, and that have to be bought out at
    exorbitant prices, stand in the way. All these owners hang
    like parasites upon your enterprise at its every stage; and by
    the time you get your sound boots well made in England, you
    will find them costing about a pound a pair--high out of reach
    of the general mass of people. And you will perhaps not think
    me fanciful and extravagant when I confess that when I realize
    this and look at poor people's boots in the street, and see
    them cracked and misshapen and altogether nasty, I seem to see
    also a lot of little phantom land-owners, cattle-owners,
    house-owners, owners of all sorts, swarming over their pinched
    and weary feet like leeches, taking much and giving nothing
    and being the real cause of all such miseries."

§ 3.

Our visitor would not only be struck by the clogging of our social activities through this
system of leaving everything to private enterprise; he would also be struck by the immense
wastefulness. Everywhere he would see things in duplicate and triplicate; down the High Street
of any small town he would find three or four butchers--mostly selling New Zealand mutton and
Argentine beef as English--five or six grocers, three or four milk shops, one or two big drapers
and three or four small haberdashers, milliners, and "fancy shops," two or three fishmongers,
all very poor, all rather bad, most of them in debt and with their assistants all insecure
and underpaid. He would find in spite of this wealth of competition that every one who could
contrive it, all the really prosperous people in fact, bought most of their food and drapery
from big London firms.

But why should I go on writing fresh arguments when we have Elihu's classic tract[4] to quote.

    [4] Elihu's tracts are published by the Independent Labour
        Party at one penny each. The best are: Whose Dog Art Thou?
        A Nation of Slaves; Milk and Postage Stamps; A Corner
        in Flesh and Blood; and Simple Division.

    "Observe how private enterprise supplies the streets with
    milk. At 7.30 a milk cart comes lumbering along and delivers
    milk at one house and away again. Half-an-hour later another
    milk cart arrives and delivers milk, first on this side of the
    street and then on that, until seven houses have been
    supplied, and then he departs. During the next three or four
    hours four other milk carts put in an appearance at varying
    intervals, supplying a house here and another there, until
    finally, as it draws towards noon, their task is accomplished
    and the street supplied with milk.

    "The time actually occupied by one and another of these
    distributors of milk makes in all about an hour and forty
    minutes, six men and six horses and carts being required for
    the purpose, and these equipages rattle along one after the
    other, all over the district, through the greater part of the
    day, in the same erratic and extraordinary manner."

§ 4.

Our imaginary visitor would probably quite fail to grasp the reasons why we do not forthwith
shake off this obstructive and harmful idea of Private Ownership, dispossess our Landowners
and so forth as gently as possible, and set to work upon collective housing and the rest of
it. And so he would "exit wondering."

But that would be only the opening of the real argument. A competent Anti-Socialist of a more
terrestrial experience would have a great many very effectual and very sound considerations
to advance in defence of the present system.

He might urge that our present way of doing things, though it was sometimes almost as wasteful
as Nature when fresh spawn or pollen germs are scattered, was in many ways singularly congenial
to the infirmities of humanity. The idea of property is a spontaneous product of the mortal
mind; children develop it in the nursery, and are passionately alive to the difference of meum
and tuum, and its extension to land, subterranean products and wild free things, even if it
is under analysis a little unreasonable, was at least singularly acceptable to humanity.

And there would be admirable soundness in all this. There can be little or no doubt that the
conception of personal ownership has in the past contributed elements to human progress that
could have come through no other means. It has allowed private individuals in odd corners to
try experiments in new methods and new appliances, that the general intelligence, such as it
was, of the community could not have understood. For all its faults, our present individualistic
order compared not simply with the communism of primitive tribes, but even with the personal
and largely illiterate control of the mediæval feudal governments, is a good efficient working
method. I don't think a Socialist need quarrel with the facts of history or human nature. But
he would urge that Private Ownership is only a phase, though no doubt quite a necessary phase,
in human development. The world has needed Private Ownership just as (Lester F. Ward declares[5])
it once needed slavery to discipline men and women to agriculture and habits of industry, and
just as it needed autocratic kings to weld warring tribes into nations and nations into empires,
to build high roads, end private war and establish the idea of Law, and a wider than tribal
loyalty. But just as Western Europe has passed out of the phases of slavery and of autocracy
(which is national slavery) into constitutionalism, so, he would hold, we are passing out of
the phase of private ownership of land and material and food. We are doing so not because we
reject it, but because we have worked it out, because we have learnt its lessons and can now
go on to a higher and finer organization.

    [5] Pure Sociology, p. 271-2, by Lester F. Ward. (The
        Macmillan Company, New York.)

There the Anti-Socialist would join issue with a lesser advantage. He would have to show not
only that Private Ownership has been serviceable and justifiable in the past--which many Socialists
admit quite cheerfully--but that it is the crown and perfection of human methods, which the
Socialists flatly deny. Universal Private Ownership, an extreme development of the sentiment
of individual autonomy and the limitation of the State to the merest police functions, were
a necessary outcome of the breakdown of the unprogressive authoritative Feudal System in alliance
with a dogmatic Church. It reached its maximum in the eighteenth century, when even some of
the prisons and workhouses were run by private contract, when people issued a private money,
the old token coinage, and even regiments of soldiers were raised by private enterprise. It
was, the Socialist alleges, a mere phase of that breaking up of the old social edifice, a weakening
of the old circle of ideas that had to precede the new constructive effort. But with land,
with all sorts of property and all sorts of businesses and public services, just as with the
old isolated private family, the old separateness and independence is giving way to a new synthesis.
The idea of Private Ownership, albeit still the ruling idea of our civilization, does not rule
nearly so absolutely as it did. It weakens and falters before the inexorable demands of social
necessity--manifestly under our eyes.

The Socialist would be able to appeal to a far greater number of laws in the nature of limitation
of the owner of property than could be quoted to show the limitation of the old supremacy of
the head of the family. In the first place he would be able to point to a constantly increasing
interference with the right of the landowner to do what he liked with his own, building regulations,
intervention to create allotments and so forth. Then there would be a vast mass of factory
and industrial legislation, controlling, directing, prohibiting; fencing machinery, interfering
on behalf of health, justice and public necessity with the owner's free bargain with his work-people.
His business undertakings would be under limitations his grandfather never knew--even harmless
adulterations that merely intensify profit, forbidden him!

And in the next place and still more significant is the manifest determination to keep in public
hands many things that would once inevitably have become private property. For example, in
the middle Victorian period a water supply, a gas supply, a railway or tramway was inevitably
a private enterprise, the creation of a new property; now, this is the exception rather than
the rule. While gas and water and trains were supplied by speculative owners for profit, electric
light and power, new tramways and light railways are created in an increasing number of cases
by public bodies who retain them for the public good. Nobody who travels to London as I do
regularly in the dirty, over-crowded carriages of the infrequent and unpunctual trains of the
South-Eastern Company, and who then transfers to the cleanly, speedy, frequent--in a word,
"civilized" electric cars of the London County Council, can fail to estimate the value and
significance of this supersession of the private owner by the common-weal.

All these things, the Socialists insist, are but a beginning. They point to a new phase in
social development, to the appearance of a collective intelligence and a sense of public service
taking over appliances, powers, enterprises, with a growing confidence that must end finally
in the substitution of collective for private ownership and enterprise throughout the whole
area of the common business of life.

§ 5.

In relation to quite a number of large public services it can be shown that even under contemporary
conditions Private Ownership does work with an enormous waste and inefficiency. Necessarily
it seeks for profit; necessarily it seeks to do as little as possible for as much as possible.
The prosperity of all Kent is crippled by a "combine" of two ill-managed and unenterprising
railway companies, with no funds for new developments, grinding out an uncertain dividend by
clipping expenditure.

I happen to see this organization pretty closely, and I can imagine no State enterprise west
of Turkey or Persia presenting even to the passing eye so deplorable a spectacle of ruin and
inefficiency. The South-Eastern Company's estate at Seabrook presents the dreariest spectacle
of incompetent development conceivable; one can see its failure three miles away; it is a waste
with an embryo slum in one corner protected by an extravagant sea-wall, already partly shattered,
from the sea.

To-day (Nov. 4, 1907) the price of the ordinary South-Eastern stock is 65 and its deferred
stock 31; of the London, Chatham and Dover ordinary stock 10-1/2; an eloquent testimony to
the disheartened state of the owners who now cling reluctantly to this disappointing monopoly.
Spite of this impoverishment of the ordinary shareholder, this railway system has evidently
paid too much profit in the past for efficiency; the rolling stock is old and ageing--much
of it is by modern standards abominable--the trains are infrequent, and the shunting operations
at local stations, with insufficient sidings and insufficient staffs, produce a chronic dislocation
and unpunctuality in the traffic that is exaggerated by the defects of direction evident even
in the very time-tables. The trains are not well planned, the connections with branch lines
are often extremely ill managed. The service is bad to its details. It is the exception rather
than the rule to find a ticket-office in the morning with change for a five-pound note; and,
as a little indication of the spirit of the whole machine, I discovered the other day that
the conductors upon the South-Eastern trams at Hythe start their morning with absolutely no
change at all. Recently the roof of the station at Charing Cross fell in--through sheer decay....
A whole rich county now stagnates hopelessly under the grip of this sample of private enterprise,
towns fail to grow, trade flows sluggishly from point to point. No population in the world
would stand such a management as it endures at the hands of the South-Eastern Railway from
any responsible public body. Out would go the whole board of managers at the next election.
Consider what would have happened if the London County Council had owned Charing Cross Station
three years ago. But manifestly there is nothing better to be done under private ownership
conditions. The common shareholders are scattered and practically powerless, and their collective
aim is, at any expense to the public welfare, to keep the price of the shares from going still
lower.

The South-Eastern Railway is only one striking instance of the general unserviceableness of
private ownership for public services. Nearly all the British railway companies, in greater
or less degree, present now a similar degenerative process. Years of profit-sweating, of high
dividends, have left them with old stations, old rolling stock, old staffs, bad habits and
diminishing borrowing power. Only a few of these corporations make any attempt to keep pace
with invention. It is remarkable now in an epoch of almost universal progress how stagnant
the British privately owned railways are. One travels now-a-days if anything with a decrease
of comfort from the 1880 accommodation, because of the greater overcrowding; and there has
been no general increase of speed, no increase in smooth running, no increase in immunity from
accident now for quite a number of years. One travels in a dingy box of a compartment that
is too ill-lit at night for reading and full of invincible draughts. In winter the only warmth
is too often an insufficient footwarmer of battered tin, for which the passengers fight fiercely
with their feet. An observant person cannot fail to be struck--especially if he is returning
from travel upon the State railways of Switzerland or Germany--by the shabby-looking porters
on so many of our lines--they represent the standard of good clothing for the year 1848 or
thereabouts--and by the bleak misery of many of the stations, the universal dirt that electricity
might even now abolish. You dare not drop a parcel on any British railway cushion for fear
of the cloud of horrible dust you would raise; you have to put it down softly. Consider, too,
the congested infrequent suburban trains that ply round any large centre of population, the
inefficient goods and parcel distribution that hangs up the trade of the local shopman everywhere.
Not only in the arrested standard of comfort, but in the efficiency of working also are our
privately owned railways a hopeless discredit to private ownership.

None of them, hampered by their present equipment, are able to adapt themselves readily to
the new and better mechanism science produces for them, electric traction, electric lighting
and so forth; and it seems to me highly probable that the last steam-engines and the last oil
lamps in the world will be found upon the southern railway lines of Great Britain. How can
they go on borrowing new capital with their stock at the prices I have quoted, and how can
they do anything without new capital? The conception of profit-raising that rules our railways
takes rather an altogether different direction; it takes the form of attempts to procure a
monopoly even of the minor traffic by resisting the development of light railways, and of keeping
the standard of comfort, decency and cleanliness low. As for the vast social ameliorations
that could be wrought now, and are urgently needed now, by redistributing population through
enhanced and cheapened services scientifically planned, and by an efficient collection and
carriage of horticultural and agricultural produce, these things lie outside the philosophy
of the Private Owner altogether. They would probably not pay him, and there the matter ends;
that they would pay the community enormously, does not for one moment enter into his circle
of ideas.

There can be little doubt that in the next decade or so the secular decay and lagging of the
British railway services which is inevitable under existing conditions (in speed, in comfort,
they have long been distanced by continental lines), the probable increase in accidents due
to economically administered permanent ways and ageing stations and bridges, and the ever more
perceptible check to British economic development due to this clogging of the circulatory system,
will be of immense value to the Socialist propaganda as an object lesson in private ownership.
In Italy the thing has already passed its inevitable climax, and the State is now struggling
valiantly to put a disorganized, ill-equipped and undisciplined network of railways, the legacy
of a period of private enterprise, into tolerable working order.

§ 6.

In a second great public service there is a perceptible, a growing recognition of the evil
and danger of allowing profit-seeking Private Ownership to prevail; and that is the general
food supply. A great quickening of the public imagination in this matter has occurred through
the "boom" of Mr. Upton Sinclair's book, The Jungle--a book every student of the elements of
Socialism should read. He accumulated a considerable mass of facts about the Chicago stockyards,
and incorporated them with his story, and so enabled people to realize what they might with
a little imaginative effort have inferred before; that the slaughtering of cattle and the preparation
of meat, when it is done wholly and solely for profit, that is to say when it is done as rapidly
and cheaply as possible, is done horribly; that it is a business cruel to the beasts, cruel
to the workers and dangerous to the public health. The United States has long recognized the
inadequacy of private consciences in this concern, and while all the vast profits of the business
go to the meat packers, the community has maintained an insufficient supply of underpaid and,
it is said in some cases, bribable inspectors to look after the public welfare.

In this country also, slaughtering is a private enterprise but slightly checked by inspection,
and if we have no Chicago, we probably have all its mean savings, its dirt and carelessness
and filth, scattered here and there all over the country, a little in this privately owned
slaughter-house, a little in that. For what inducement has a butcher to spend money and time
in making his slaughter-house decent, sanitary and humane above the standard of his fellows?
To do that will only make him poor and insolvent. Anyhow, few of his customers will come to
see their meat butchered, and, as they say in the South of England, "What the eye don't see
the heart don't grieve."

Many witnesses concur in declaring that our common jam, pickle and preserve trade is carried
on under equally filthy conditions. If it is not, it is a miracle, in view of the inducements
the Private Owner has to cut his expenses, economize on premises and wages, and buy his fruit
as near decay and his sugar as near dirt as he can. The scandal of our milk supply is an open
one; it is more and more evident that so long as Private Ownership rules the milk trade, we
can never be sure that at every point in the course of the milk from cow to consumer there
will not creep in harmful and dishonest profit-making elements. The milking is too often done
dirtily from dirty cows and into dirty vessels--why should a business man fool away his profits
in paying for scrupulous cleanliness when it is almost impossible to tell at sight whether
milk is clean or dirty?--and there come more or less harmful dilutions and adulterations and
exposures to infection at every handling, at every chance at profit making. The unavoidable
inefficiency of the private milk trade reflects itself in infant mortality--we pay our national
tribute to private enterprise in milk, a tribute of many thousands of babies every year. We
try to reduce this tribute by inspection. But why should the State pay money for inspection,
upon keeping highly-trained and competent persons merely to pry and persecute in order that
private incompetent people should reap profits with something short of a maximum of child murder?
It would be much simpler to set to work directly, employ and train these private persons, and
run the dairies and milk distribution ourselves.

There is an equally strong case for a public handling of bakehouses and the bread supply. Already
the public is put to great and entirely unremunerative expense in inspecting and checking weights
and hunting down the grosser instances of adulteration, grubbiness and dirt, and with it all
the common bakehouse remains for the most part a subterranean haunt of rats, mice and cockroaches,
and the ordinary baker's bread is so insipid and unnutritious that a great number of more prosperous
people now-a-days find it advantageous to health and pocket alike to bake at home. A considerable
amount of physical degeneration may be connected with the general poorness of our bread. The
plain fact of the case is that our population will never get good wholesome bread from the
Private Owner's bakehouse, until it employs one skilled official to watch every half-dozen
bakers--and another to watch him; and it seems altogether saner and cheaper to abolish the
Private Owner in this business also and do the job cleanly, honestly and straightforwardly
in proper buildings with properly paid labour as a public concern.

Now, what has been said of the food supply is still truer of the trade in fuel. Between the
consumer and the collier is a string of private persons each resolved to squeeze every penny
of profit out of the coal on its way to the cheap and wasteful grate one finds in the jerry-built
homes of the poor. In addition there is every winter now, whether in Great Britain or America,
a manipulation of the coal market and a more or less severe coal famine. Coal is jerked up
to unprecedented prices, and the small consumer, who has no place for storage, who must buy,
if not from day to day, from week to week, finds he must draw upon his food fund and his savings
to meet the Private Owner's raised demands--or freeze. Every such coal famine reaps its harvest
for death of old people and young children, and wipes out so many thousands of savings' bank
accounts and hoarded shillings. Consider the essential imbecility of allowing the nation's
life and the nation's thrift to be preyed upon for profit in this way! Is it possible to doubt
that the civilized community of the future will have to resume possession of all its stores
of fuel, will keep itself informed of the fluctuating needs of its population, and will distribute
and sell coal, gas and oil--not for the maximum profit, but the maximum general welfare?[6]

    [6] In Dakota, 1906-7, private enterprise led to a
        particularly severe coal famine in the bitterest weather,
        and the shortage was felt so severely that the population
        rose and attacked and stopped passing coal-trains.

Another great branch of trade in which Private Ownership and private freedom is manifestly
antagonistic to the public welfare is the Drink Traffic. Here we have a commodity, essentially
a drug, its use readily developing a vice, deleterious at its best, complex in composition,
and particularly susceptible to adulteration and the enhancement of its attraction by poisonous
ingredients and indeed to every sort of mischievous secret manipulation. Probably nothing is
more rarely found pure and honest than beer or whisky; whisky begins to be blended and doctored
before it leaves the distillery. And we allow the production and distribution of this drug
of alcoholic drink to be from first to last a source of private profit. We so contrive it that
we put money prizes upon the propaganda of drink. Is it any wonder that drink is not only made
by adulteration far more evil than it naturally is, but that it is forced upon the public in
every possible way?

"He tempts them to drink," I have heard a clergyman say of his village publican. But what else
did he think the publican was there for?--to preach total abstinence? Naturally, inevitably,
the whole of the Trade is a propaganda--not of drunkenness, but of habitual heavy drinking.
The more successful propagandists, the great brewers and distillers grow rich just in the proportion
that people consume beer and spirits; they gain honour and peerages in the measure of their
success.

It is very interesting to the Socialist to trace the long struggle of the temperance movement
against its initial ideas of freedom, and to see how inevitably the most reluctant and unlikely
people have been forced to recognize Private Ownership in this trade and for profit as the
ultimate evil. I am delighted to have to hand an excellent little tract by "A Ratepayer": National
Efficiency and the Drink Traffic. It has a preface by Mr. Haldane, and it is as satisfactory
a demonstration of the absolute necessity of thoroughgoing Socialism in this particular field
as any Socialist could wish. One encounters the Bishop of Chester, for example, in its pages
talking the purest Socialism, and making the most luminous admissions of the impossibility
of continued private control, in phrases that need but a few verbal changes to apply equally
to milk, to meat, to bread, to housing, to book-selling[7]....

    [7] For a clear and admirable account of the Socialist
        attitude to the temperance question, see the tract on
        Municipal Drink Traffic published by the Fabian Society;
        price one penny.

§ 7.

Land and housing, railways, food, drink, coal, in each of these great general interests there
is a separate strong case for the substitution of collective control for the Private Ownership
methods of the present time. There is a great and growing number of people like "A Ratepayer"
and Mr. Haldane, who do not call themselves Socialists but who are yet strongly tinged with
Socialist conceptions; who are convinced--some in the case of the land, some in the case of
the drink trade or the milk, that Private Ownership and working for profit must cease. But
they will not admit a general principle, they argue each case on its merits.

The Socialist maintains that, albeit the details of each problem must be studied apart, there
does underlie all these cases and the whole economic situation at the present time, one general
fact, that through our whole social system from top to base we find things under the influence
of a misleading idea that must be changed, and which, until it is changed, will continue to
work out in waste, unserviceableness, cramped lives and suffering and death. Each man is for
himself, that is this misleading idea, seeking, perforce, ends discordant with the general
welfare; who serves the community without exacting pay, goes under; who exacts pay without
service prospers and continues; success is not to do well, it is to have and to get; failure
is not to do ill, it is to lose and not have; and under these conditions how can we expect
anything but dislocated, unsatisfying service at every turn?

The contemporary anti-Socialist moralist and the social satirist would appeal to the Owner's
sense of duty; he would declare in a platitudinous tone that property had its duties as well
as its rights, and so forth. The Socialist, however, looks a little deeper, and puts the thing
differently. He brings both rights and duties to a keener scrutiny. What underlies all these
social disorders, he alleges, is one simple thing, a misconception of property; an unreasonable
exaggeration, an accumulated, inherited exaggeration, of the idea of property. He says the
idea of private property, which is just and reasonable in relation to intimate personal things,
to clothes, appliances, books, one's home or apartments, the garden one loves or the horse
one rides, has become unreasonably exaggerated until it obsesses the world; that the freedom
we have given men to claim and own and hold the land upon which we must live, the fuel we burn,
the supplies of food and metal we require, the railways and ships upon which our business goes,
and to fix what prices they like to exact for all these services, leads to the impoverishment
and practical enslavement of the mass of mankind.

And so he comes to his second main generalization, which I may perhaps set out in these words:--

The idea of the private ownership of things and the rights of owners is enormously and mischievously
exaggerated in the contemporary world. The conception of private property has been extended
to land, to material, to the values and resources accumulated by past generations, to a vast
variety of things that are properly the inheritance of the whole race. As a result of this,
there is much obstruction and waste of human energy and a huge loss of opportunity and freedom
for the mass of mankind; progress is retarded, there is a vast amount of avoidable wretchedness,
cruelty and injustice.

The Socialist holds that the community as a whole should be inalienably the owner and administrator
of the land, of raw materials, of values and resources accumulated from the past, and that
private property must be of a terminable nature, reverting to the community, and subject to
the general welfare.

This is the second of the twin generalizations upon which the edifice of modern Socialism rests.
Like the first, and like the practical side of all sound religious teaching, it is a specific
application of one general rule of conduct, and that is the subordination of the individual
motive to the happiness and welfare of the species.

§ 8.

But now the reader unaccustomed to Socialist discussion will begin to see the crude form of
the answer to the question raised by the previous chapter; he will see the resources from which
the enlargement of human life we there contemplated is to be derived, and realize the economic
methods to be pursued. Collective ownership is the necessary corollary of collective responsibility.
There are to be no private land owners, no private bankers and lenders of money, no private
insurance adventurers, no private railway owners nor shipping owners, no private mine owners,
oil kings, silver kings, coal and wheat forestallers or the like. All this realm of property
is to be resumed by the State, is to be State-owned and State-managed, and the vast revenues
that are now devoted to private ends will go steadily to feed, maintain and educate a new and
better generation, to promote research and advance science, to build new houses, develop fresh
resources, plant, plan, beautify and reconstruct the world.

CHAPTER V

THE SPIRIT OF GAIN AND THE SPIRIT OF SERVICE

§ 1.

We have stated now how the constructive plan of Socialism aims to replace the accepted ideas
about two almost fundamental human relations by broader and less fiercely egotistical conceptions;
how it denies a man "property" rights over his wife and children, leaving, however, all his
other relations with them intact, how it would insure and protect their welfare, and how it
asserts that a vast range of inanimate things also which are now held as private property must
be regarded as the inalienable possession of the whole community. This change in the circle
of ideas (as the Herbartians put it) is the essence of the Socialist project.

It means no little change. It means a general change in the spirit of living; it means a change
from the spirit of gain (which now necessarily rules our lives) to the spirit of service.

I have tried to show in the preceding chapter that Socialism seeks to make life less squalid
and cruel, less degrading and dwarfing for the children that are born into it, and I have tried
also to make clear that realization of, and revolt against, the bad management and waste and
muddle which result from our present economic system. I want now to point out that Socialism
seeks to ennoble the intimate personal life, by checking and discouraging passions that at
present run rampant, and by giving wider scope for passions that are now thwarted and subdued.
The Socialist declares that life is now needlessly dishonest, base and mean, because our present
social organization, such as it is, makes an altogether too powerful appeal to some of the
very meanest elements in our nature.

Not perhaps to the lowest. There can be no disputing that our present civilization does discourage
much of the innate bestiality of man; that it helps people to a measure of continence, cleanliness
and mutual toleration; that it does much to suppress brute violence, the spirit of lawlessness,
cruelty and wanton destruction. But on the other hand it does also check and cripple generosity
and frank truthfulness, any disinterested creative passion, the love of beauty, the passion
for truth and research, and it stimulates avarice, parsimony, overreaching, usury, falsehood
and secrecy, by making money-getting its criterion of intercourse.

Whether we like it or not, we who live in this world to-day find we must either devote a considerable
amount of our attention to getting and keeping money, and shape our activities--or, if you
will, distort them--with a constant reference to that process, or we must accept futility.
Whatever powers men want to exercise, whatever service they wish to do, it is a preliminary
condition for most of them that they must, by earning something or selling something, achieve
opportunity. If they cannot turn their gift into some saleable thing or get some propertied
man to "patronize" them, they cannot exercise these gifts. The gift for getting is the supreme
gift--all others bow before it.

Now this is not a thing that comes naturally out of the quality of man; it is the result of
a blind and complex social growth, of this set of ideas working against that, and of these
influences modifying those. The idea of property has run wild and become a choking universal
weed. It is not the natural master-passion of a wholesome man to want constantly to own. People
talk of Socialism as being a proposal "against human nature," and they would have us believe
that this life of anxiety, of parsimony and speculation, of mercenary considerations and forced
toil we all lead, is the complete and final expression of the social possibilities of the human
soul. But, indeed, it is only quite abnormal people, people of a narrow, limited, specialized
intelligence, Rockefellers, Morgans and the like, people neither great nor beautiful, mere
financial monomaniacs, who can keep themselves devoted to and concentrated upon gain. To the
majority of capable good human stuff, buying and selling, saving and investing, insuring oneself
and managing property, is a mass of uncongenial, irrational and tiresome procedure, conflicting
with the general trend of instinct and the finer interests of life. The great mass of men and
women, indeed, find the whole process so against nature, that in spite of all the miseries
of poverty, all the slavery of the economic disadvantage, they cannot urge themselves to this
irksome cunning game of besting the world, they remain poor. Most, in a sort of despair, make
no effort; many resort to that floundering endeavour to get by accident, gambling; many achieve
a precarious and unsatisfactory gathering of possessions, a few houses, a claim on a field,
a few hundred pounds in some investment as incalculable as a kite in a gale; just a small minority
have and get--for the most part either inheritors of riches or energetic people who, through
a real dulness toward the better and nobler aspects of life, can give themselves almost entirely
to grabbing and accumulation. To such as these, all common men who are not Socialists do in
effect conspire to give the world.

The Anti-Socialist argues that out of this evil of encouraged and stimulated avarice comes
good, and that this peculiar meanly greedy type that predominates in the individualist world
to-day, the Rockefeller-Harriman type, "creates" great businesses, exploits the possibilities
of nature, gives mankind railways, power, commodities. As a matter of fact, a modern intelligent
community is quite capable of doing all these things infinitely better for itself, and the
beneficent influence of commerce may easily become, and does easily become, the basis of a
cant. Exploitation by private persons is no doubt a necessary condition to economic development
in an illiterate community of low intelligence, just as flint implements marked a necessary
phase in the social development of mankind; but to-day the avaricious getter, like some obsolescent
organ in the body, consumes strength and threatens health. And to-day he is far more mischievous
than ever he was before, because of the weakened hold of the old religious organization upon
his imagination. For the most part the great fortunes of the modern world have been built up
by proceedings either not socially beneficial, or in some cases positively harmful. Consider
some of the commoner methods of growing rich. There is first the selling of rubbish for money,
exemplified by the great patent medicine fortunes and the fortunes achieved by the debasement
of journalism, the sale of prize-competition magazines and the like; next there is forestalling,
the making of "corners" in such commodities as corn, nitrates, borax and the like; then there
is the capture of what Americans call "franchises," securing at low terms by expedients that
usually will not bear examination, the right to run some profitable public service for private
profit which would be better done in public hands--the various private enterprises for urban
traffic, for example; then there are the various more or less complex financial operations,
watering stock, "reconstructing," "shaking out" the ordinary shareholder, which transfer the
savings of the common struggling person to the financial magnate. Black bread crumbs covered a felt blanket. In a Corner on
a round stone slab were copper coins piled up carelessly, and through the cracks in the canvas,
the wind was blowing out of dust and the smell of the elephants in, you eat and rattle their
chains stopped.

"Who are you?" Asked Matho.

Salammbo looked slowly round the room without answering. Then turned their Eye on the background
of the tent and stayed in a sparkling blue object To stick hanging
over a bed of palm branches.

Immediately, she walked toward it.

A cry escaped her.

Matho stood behind her and stomped her foot.

"What brings you here? What do you come? "

She pointed to the Zaimph and replied:

"To get there!"

With the other hand she tore the veil from her face. Matho recoiled, affected nearly shocked,
stretched his arms to the rear.

She felt inspired by divine power. Eye to eye she looked at him and demanded the Zaimph. She asked
him back with eloquent words arrogant.

Matho did not listen.

He looked at them. Their garments were in his eyes, one with her body. The iridescent fabric
was with him just as her shimmering skin something very special that was only her own. Her
eyes sparkled in the fire of their diamonds, and the brilliance of
her fingernails was the reflection of the sparkling stones, resplendent
with their fingers.

The two clips her tunic squeezed her breasts a little in the air and pressed the two breasts closer
together. Mathos thoughts were lost in the narrow space between the two hills, find hanging on
a string an emerald-studded medallion. A little deeper, it peered
under the purple gauze out.

As ear-rings she was wearing two small bowls of sapphire, each having a hollow bore with fragrant
liquid filled bead. Through tiny holes in the beads leaked from time to time a drop of perfume wetted
down and her bare shoulders. Matho saw them fall one.

Irrepressible curiosity seized him, and like a child who reaches for
an unknown fruit Salammbo he touched the tip of a trembling finger
on top of the breast.

The cool meat gave way with elastic resistance.

This hardly noticeable touch Matho attracted to the very marrow of
his bones.

A wild overgrowth flooded his body and pushed him suddenly towards it. He would entwine, they
suck in, they may drink. His chest was panting, his teeth chattering.

He grabbed at the wrists Salammbo and pulled her gently to himself. Then he settled on a Harnisch
next to the camp from palm branches down, on which a lion's skin
was spread.

Salammbo remained upright. He held it between his legs and looked at her from head to at the
feet of. Again and again, he said.

"How beautiful you are! How beautiful you are! "

His eyes, which were steadily directed to their eyes did hurt her,
and this discomfort, this reluctance was it so painful that she had
to restrain himself, not to cry.

Schahabarim she remembered.

They submitted.

Matho was holding her little hands forever in his, but from time to time turned Salammbo Despite
the priest's bid to head off and tried to get away with an arm movement. He inhaled with wide open
nostrils the odors that emanated from her, a vague Smell, fresh and yet stunning as incense,
the fragrance of honey, spices, roses and all sorts of Oddities.

But how she came to him?

In his tent, in his power? Without doubt they had someone to instigated.
Had she come for the Zaimph?

His arms fell limply. He bent his head and sank into melancholy reverie.

To touch him, "she said in a plaintive voice:

"What have I done to you that you want my death?"

"Christ has died?"

She continued:

"I saw you one evening in the light of my burning gardens, trees and
between smoking slain my slave, and your anger was so great that you
lossprangst on me and I had to flee!

Then the terror in Carthage is recovered.

They cried about the devastation the cities, the devastation of fields, which allowed the murder
of soldiers - and you, you were devastated, ravaged, murdered! I hate you! The mere sound of your
name eats at me like bitter Remorse! You are cursed as the plague, when the war with Rome! The provinces
tremble before thy Zorn, the fields are full of dead men. I followed the trail of your fire
torches, as if I Moloch walked behind! "

Matho leaped up. Immense pride swelled his heart. He was exalted as a god.

With quivering nostrils and clenched teeth, she continued:

"As if your sacrilege were not enough, you came to me while I slept, in the Zaimph wrapped. I
did not understand your words, but I felt comfortable that you love me seduced into something
shameful, to throw myself into an abyss wanted ... "

Matho wrung her hands and cried:

"No, no! I wanted him to give you! Return it to you! I felt as if the Goddess her gown lent to
you, when it was you! In her temple or in your home - is this is not the same thing? Are not
you all-powerful, clean, shiny and beautiful as Tanit? "

And with a look of infinite adoration, he continued:

"Maybe you Tanit yourself!"

"I, Tanit whispered?"

Salammbo as if to himself

They were both silent. Thunder rolled in the distance. From the thunderstorm frightened bleating
sheep.

"Come nearer," he began again. "Come closer! Fear not!

"Formerly I was just a common soldier in the great heap of mercenaries. I was so meek, I dragged
the other the wood on the back. What do I care really Carthage! Its crowds of people swarming
like lost in the dust of your sandals, and after all his treasures, all its provinces, fleets
and islands I desire less than after the freshness of your Lips and the roundness of your shoulders.
I wanted to break its walls to get to you, to possess you! Meanwhile, I have avenged myself.
I crush now, people like Shells, I throw myself to the regiments, I meet with their hands the
lance aside, I grab the stallions at the nostrils.

Killing me not the biggest guns! Oh, if only you knew I think the middle of the fight in you! At times
I am seized by a sudden and the memory a gesture from you, in a fold
of your garment.

It wraps around me like a net. I see your eyes in the flames of fire arrows and the gold of
the shield. I hear your Voice in the sound of cymbals. I turn around, and you are not there -
then I throw myself again into the fray! "

He stretched up his arms, where the wires crossed, like ivy on the
trunk of a tree.

Sweat ran down between the powerful muscles of his chest. His breath shook his Ribs and the
iron belt with the belt stocking, which he reached down to the knees, were fixed as the marble.
Salammbo, who had seen only eunuchs, was the power of this Man carried away. That was the punishment
of the goddess or the magic of Moloch, who around her in five armies
are being driven!

Fatigue took hold. Half stunned she hardly heard the Call of the items outside, the other shouted at intervals.

The
flame of the lamp flickered intermittently penetrating under the hot winds. Occasionally twitching
blinding flashes. Afterwards, the darkness was always the more deeply, and she saw nothing more
than Mathos eyes like two burning coals glow through the night. One of them felt: that the fate
they had passed here that they faced an important decision irrevocable. Pull themselves together,
they approached the Zaimph and raised his hands to seize it.

       

"What are you doing?" Cried Matho.

"I go back to Carthage," she said quietly.

He walked with his arms folded and such a terrible expression on them that they remained rooted
to the spot. "You're taken to Carthage back, "he stammered. And reluctantly, he repeated: "You will
return to Carthage? So, you came, then, to rob me of the Zaimph to make me helpless and disappear!
No, no! You are mine! And no one should I tear up again! Oh, I have the arrogance your great eyes
still not forgotten, nor, as you love me with your sublime beauty slammed to the ground! Now
is my turn! You are my prisoner, my slave, my maid! Cry all you want, your father and his army,
the old, the patrician and all your wicked people! I am the master of three hundred thousand soldiers!
And yet more I will fetch from Lusitania, from Gaul and from the
bosom of the desert to your to destroy the city and to burn all its
temples!

The warships are on a sea swim with blood! No house, no stone, no palm tree will be left of Carthage!
And if I miss the people, so I pick the bears from the mountains and drive the lions in the fight.
Do not try to escape! I'll kill you! "

Pale and with clenched fists, he stood and shook like a harp, to break the strings threaten.
Suddenly, his voice choked in sobs, and he sank to his knees:

"Oh,
forgive me!

I am a wicked and worth less than a scorpion, when mud and dust! Just as you said, your breath
blew across my face and I refreshed myself out like a Withering, which lies on the edge of a stream
and drink. Crushes me! If I only yours Feet feel!

Curse me! When I hear your voice! Do not go away! Have pity! I love you! I love you! "

He stood before her, tilted back on his knees, his head and clasped
her waist with both Poor, with trembling hands.

The gold coins to his ears glistened on his bronze-colored Neck.

Big tears welled in his eyes like silver bullets.

He sighed and muttered in love meaningless words, which were quieter than a breath and sweeter
than a kiss.

Salammbo was seized by a soft sensuality that robbed her of all consciousness.

Something heartfelt humanity and yet exalted the order of the gods forced them to lose himself
in it. Clouds contributed them up, and she sank half fainting on the couch, in the lion's
skin. Matho took at her feet. As broke the golden chain, and the
two ends rustled against the Canvas, like two quivering snakes.

The Zaimph fell and enveloped Salammbo. She looked Mathos Face bending over her breasts.

"Moloch, you burn me!"

* * * * *

The kisses of the soldiers they were consuming than flame. It was as if a wild storm fortriß
it as if the heat of the sun they durchlodere.

He kissed all her fingers, her hands, her arms, her feet, the long tresses of her hair.

"Take the cloak," he said. "What do I care! But kidnap me, too! I want the Army leave! Will give
up everything!

There, behind Gades, twenty days lengths far in the sea, there lies an island, covered with
gold dust, trees and birds. weigh on the mountains are great Flowers,
full of scents that swirl up like the smoke of sacred eternal lamps.

Of lime trees, which extend more than cedars, milk-white snakes with diamond teeth throw the
fruits down on the lawn. The air is so mild that you can not die. Oh, the island will I find,
you shall see! We will live in Crystal Caves, at the foot of the hills. Still lives no one there,
and I will be king of the country! "

He wiped the dust from their shoes.

He wanted her a piece of pomegranate between her lips .

Insert He pushed her head under the blankets to create a cushion for them. He sought her to
be subservient in every way and finally spread the Zaimph on their feet like a ordinary ceiling.

"Are you still the little gazelle horns, which were hanging on your collar," he said. "The you
shall give me I like it so! "

He talked as if the war had ended. Merry laughter flowed from him. The mercenaries, Hamilcar,
all obstacles were now gone. The moon came out from between two clouds. They saw him through
a hole in the tent.

"Oh, how many nights I've spent, lost in his sight! I felt as if he is a veil that hid your face. You
looking at me through his test. The memory of up was one with his light. I'll differ no more!
"

His head was resting between her breasts. He cried without end.

"He is!" Thought Salammbo. "The terrible man who trembles at the Carthage!"

He

fell asleep. They wrenched himself to his arms and put one foot on
the ground.

As noted her that her necklace was cracked.

It accustomed the young women of the noble houses because they fetter as something almost sacred
. To see Blushing Salambo tied the chain around her ankles together.

Carthage, Megara, his father's castle, her bower, the area through
which they rode, all appeared in the wild colorful jumble in front
of her, but in clear images.

A deep Chasm had suddenly everything is separate from her and moved in infinite distance.

The storm passed away. From time to have a drop of rain splashed on the tent roof and brought
it in quiet tremors.

Matho was like a drunken man sleeping on the side. One arm hung over the edge of the Bearing
down. His beaded tie had shifted a little and let his End free. A smile played around his lips
opened. The teeth gleamed between his black beard, and around his eyes closed, not quite laughing
quiet serenity the Salammbo almost offended. She stood before his bed and looked at him still,
with head bowed and hands over one another down.

At the head of the bed was on a table of cypress wood is a dagger.

The sight of the sparkling Blade caught in Salammbo a bloodthirsty desire. She was as distant
voices complained through the night, imploring chorus of spirits. She stepped closer to her,
seized the steel in Handle. Their robes roamed the sleeper. Since Matho opened his eyes. He touched
with his Their lips, hands, and the dagger fell to the ground.

Outside stood up screaming.

Frightening Light shone from behind the tent. Matho proposed the screen at the back entrance:
the camp of the Libyans was in flames.

The reed huts were burning. The curved tubular bars to smoke burst in and shot as Arrows like
this. On the blood-red horizon saw black shadows walking through each other confused. In Remaining
inside the huts were howling. Elephants, cattle and horses raced through the middle of the fray
and trampled people, military equipment and the rescued from the
flames of luggage.

This bugle. All cried, "Matho! Matho! "They wanted to get into his tent. "Come on! Hamilcar
burns Autarits Camp! "

He stormed out. Salammbo was left alone.

She looked at the Zaimph, and when she looked at him painfully, she
was amazed at the Lucky not to feel that she had longed for it.

Sadly she stood before her unfulfilled Dream.

Then was lifted the hem of the tent, and appeared a shapeless form. Salammbo recognized at first
nothing but two eyes and a long white beard that hung down to the
ground, because the rest of the body hindered crawled across the floor,
through the rags of a yellow-red robe.

For each time the Vorwärtskriechenden the two hands in my beard disappeared
and came then out again.

Thus the shape dragged until Salambos feet.

Now she realized the old Gisgo.

The mercenaries had caught the Gerusiasten so they do not run away
with iron rods the legs were shattered and they are all mixed up in
the garbage rot in the pit.

Only the strongest directed screaming high when they heard the clatter of cookware. Sun Gisgo
Salammbo had noticed. At the small agate balls that touched their shoes, had He guessed that
there must be a Karthagerin, and moved by the idea of ​​an important Secrecy, he had succeeded
with the help of his fellow sufferers to climb out of the pit. Then he had to elbow and hands
the twenty steps until towed to Mathos tent. Two voices spoke in it.

He had listened outside and heard everything.

"It's you," she said after a while, very shocked.

Gisgo sat up on his hands and said:

"Yes, it's me! It keeps me well for dead, say? "

       She lowered her head.

He went on:

"Oh, my god why have not proven this grace?" He crept so close to them, that he touched. "They have
spared me the pain of having to curse you!"

Salammbo drew back hastily. You are horrified at this filthy creature,
that was awful like a ghost and terrible as a monster.

"I'm almost
a hundred years old," he continued. "I've seen Agathocles and Regulus.
Hab experienced it, that the Roman eagle trampled the harvest of the
Punic fields. Have all the abominations the war looked and saw the
sea covered with the remains of our fleet! Barbarians their commander
was I have now tied the hands and feet like a slave, who a murder
is committed. My companions die one by her after the other me. The
stench their corpses I can not sleep at night. I fend off the birds,
their eyes want to pick it out. And yet not a day I'm desperate to
Carthage! And I would all the armies of the world in the war seen
from the city, and were higher in the fires of the besiegers than
the gable of his temple flared, - I should have believed in Carthage
eternity! Now it's all over, all is lost! The gods abhor! A curse
on you, you accelerated its demise have your outrage! "

She wanted
to talk ...

"I was here," he exclaimed. "I saw you in cooing love
like a whore! A Barbarian showed you his lust, and you have served
him to kiss your hands! And if you gave your shameless passion 'also,
so you had to at least the example of wild animals follow that are
hidden in the pairing, but not the face your shame flaunt your father!
"

"I do not understand you," said Salammbo.

"So! Did you not know
that the two army camps only sixty yards away from each other? And
that your Matho in excess of his cheek to his tent directly in front
of Hamilcar has opened? Your father is there behind you, and if I
could climb the bridge, leading up to the wall, I would call him,
Come and see your daughter in the Arms of the barbarians! To please
him, she has created the dress of the goddess, and with their Body,
she gives him the glory of your name and award the majesty of our
gods and the revenge of the country, even the salvation of Carthage,
"

In the movements of his toothless mouth flapped his long beard.
His eyes stared Salammbo on how to swallow it, and crawling in the
dust, "he repeated, panting:

"Wicked! Cursed be thou! Damn! Thrice
cursed! "

Salammbo had lifted the canvas and held it high with outstretched
arms. Looked dumb it over to Hamilcar camp.

"Over there, right?"
She asked.

"What do you care! Hence lifting up of! Away from here!
Root your face rather deeply into the Bottom one! This is where a
sacred place, the desecrated your eyes! "

She threw herself around
his shoulders the Zaimph snatched hastily her veil, her coat and her
Shoulder cloth and exclaimed:

"I want to go!"

So that they slipped
out and disappeared.

First they walked through the dark, without
meeting anyone, because all rushed to the fire site. The noise became
more intense. Large flames reddened the sky behind her. The long wall
blocking her way.

Aimlessly she turned to the right and left, looking
for a ladder, a rope, a Stairs, anything could help up what to do.
She had fear Gisgo, and it occurred to her before, as if she screams
and steps followed. The morning dawned. Then she saw a Footpath that
led up to the sloping hill. She took the hem of her garment, which
they disabilities, between the teeth and came up with three jumps
of the wall.

A loud cry was heard at her in the dark, the same that
they recently at the foot of the galley staircase had heard. She leaned
forward and saw the servant Schahabarims with the two horses, he held
the reins.

He was up all night between the two camps back and forth
striped. Finally, he was by the fire disturbed approached the wall
and tried to spot, what was happening in Mathos camp. Because he knew
that this place was Mathos tent next, so he had faithfully the dictates
of the priest, not to leave.

He stood upright on one of the horses.
Salammbo rolled from the ramparts down to him. Then they rode round
the galloping Punic camp to find an entrance.

* * * * *

Matho had
returned to his tent. The smoking lamp is lit up slightly. He believed
Salammbo asleep. Gingerly he felt his hand over the lion's skin on
the Palm camp. He cried. No answer. As he violently tore a piece from
the canvas of the tent so that the light intensity: Zaimph was gone.

The
ground trembled under countless footsteps. Loud shouting, horses neighing
of arms and echoed through the air. Bugle called out to alert the
people. Like a hurricane swirling it out round the rebel leader. In
boundless rage, he grabbed his arms and rushed out. Only rarely does the right man seem to struggle
to his place of adequate opportunity. Men and women get their chance in various ways; some
of implacable temper and versatile gifts thrust themselves to the position they need for the
exercise of their powers; others display an astonishing facility in securing honours and occasions
they can then only waste; others, outside their specific gift, are the creatures of luck or
the victims of modesty, tactlessness or incapacity. Most of the large businesses of the world
now are in the hands of private proprietors and managed either directly by an owner or by directors
or managers acting for directors. The quality of promotion or the recognition of capacity varies
very much in these great concerns, but they are on the whole probably inferior to the public
services. Even where the administration is keenest it must be remembered it is not seeking
the men who work the machine best, but the men who can work it cheapest and with the maximum
of profit. It is pure romancing to represent the ordinary business magnate as being in perpetual
search for capacity among the members of his staff. He wants them to get along and not make
trouble.

Among the smaller businesses that still, I suppose, constitute the bulk of the world's economic
body, capacity is enormously hampered. I was once an apprentice in a chemist's shop, and also
once in a draper's--two of my brothers have been shop assistants, and so I am still able to
talk understandingly with clerks and employees, and I know that in all that world all sorts
of minor considerations obstruct the very beginnings of efficient selection. Every shop is
riddled with jealousies, "sucking up to the gov'nor" is the universal crime, and among the
women in many callings promotion is too often tainted by still baser suspicions. No doubt in
a badly criticized public service there is such a thing as "sucking up to" the head of the
department, but at its worst it is not nearly so bad as things may be in a small private concern
under a petty autocrat.

In America it is said that the public services are inferior in personal quality to the staffs
of the great private business organizations. My own impression is that, considering the salaries
paid, they are, so far as Federal concerns go, immeasurably superior. In State and municipal
affairs, American conditions offer no satisfactory criterion; the Americans are, for reasons
I have discussed elsewhere,[8] a "State-blind" people concentrated upon private getting; they
have been negligent of public concerns, and the public appointments have been left to the peculiarly
ruffianly type of politician their unfortunate Constitution and their individualist traditions
have evolved. In England, too, public servants are systematically undersalaried, so that the
big businesses have merely to pay reasonably well to secure the pick of the national capacity.
Moreover, it must be remembered by the reader that the public services do not advertise, and
that the private businesses do; so that while there is the fullest ventilation of any defects
in our military or naval organization, there is a very considerable check upon the discussion
of individualist incapacity. An editor will rush into print with the flimsiest imputations
upon the breech of a new field-gun or the housing of the militia at Aldershot, but he thinks
twice before he proclaims that the preserved fruits that pay his proprietor a tribute of some
hundreds a year are an unwholesome embalmment of decay. On the whole it is probable that in
spite of scandalously bad pay and of the embarrassment of party considerations, the British
Navy, Post Office, and Civil Service generally, and the educational work and much of the transit
and building work of the London County Council and of many of the greater English and Scotch
municipalities, are as well managed as any private businesses in the world.

    [8] The Future in America, Ch. IX. (Chapman & Hall, 1906.)

On the other hand, one must admit there are political and social conditions that can carry
the quality of the State service almost as low as the lowest type of private enterprise. It
is little marvel that under the typical eighteenth century monarchy, when the way to ship,
regiment and the apostolic succession alike lay through the ante-chamber of the king's mistress,
there was begotten that absolute repudiation of State Control to which Herbert Spencer was
destined at last to give the complete expression, that irrational, passionate belief that whatever
else is right the State is necessarily incompetent and wrong....

The gist of this matter seems to be that where you have honourable political institutions,
free speech and a general high level of intelligence and education, you will have an efficient
criticism of men and their work and powers, and you will get a wholesome system of public promotion
and many right men in the right place. The higher the collective intelligence, that is to say,
the higher is the collective possibility. Under Socialist institutions which will give education
and a sense of personal security to every one, this necessity of criticism is likely to be
most freely, frankly and disinterestedly provided. But it is well to keep in mind the entire
dependence of Socialism upon a high level of intelligence, education and freedom. Socialist
institutions, as I understand them, are only possible in a civilized State, in a State in which
the whole population can read, write, discuss, participate and in a considerable measure understand.
Education must precede the Socialist State. Socialism, modern Socialism that is to say, such
as I am now concerned with, is essentially an exposition of and training in certain general
ideas; it is impossible in an illiterate community, a basely selfish community, or in a community
without the capacity to use the machinery and the apparatus of civilization. At the best, and
it is a poor best, a stupid, illiterate population can but mock Socialism with a sort of bureaucratic
tyranny; for a barbaric population too large and various for the folk-meeting, there is nothing
but monarchy and the ownership of the king; for a savage tribe, tradition and the undocumented
will of the strongest males. Socialism, I will admit, presupposes intelligence, and demands
as fundamental necessities schools, organized science, literature and a sense of the State.

CHAPTER VI

WOULD SOCIALISM DESTROY THE HOME?

§ 1.

For reasons that will become clearer when we tell something of the early history and development
of Socialism, the Socialist propositions with regard to the family lie open to certain grave
misconceptions. People are told--and told quite honestly and believingly--that Socialism will
destroy the home, will substitute a sort of human stud farm for that warm and intimate nest
of human life, will bring up our children in incubators and crèches and--Institutions generally.

But before we come to what modern Socialists do desire in these matters, it may be well to
consider something of the present reality of the home people are so concerned about. The reader
must not idealize. He must not shut his eyes to facts, dream, as Lord Hugh Cecil and Lord Robert
Cecil--those admirable champions of a bad cause--probably do, of a beautiful world of homes,
orderly, virtuous, each a little human fastness, each with its porch and creeper, each with
its books and harmonium, its hymn-singing on Sunday night, its dear mother who makes such wonderful
cakes, its strong and happy father--and then say, "These wicked Socialists want to destroy
all this." Because, in the first place, such homes are being destroyed and made impossible
now by the very causes against which Socialism fights, and because in this world at the present
time very few homes are at all like this ideal. In reality every poor home is haunted by the
spectre of irregular employment and undermined by untrustworthy insurance, it must shelter
in insanitary dwellings and its children eat adulterated food because none other can be got.
And that, I am sorry to say, it is only too easy to prove, by a second appeal to a document
of which I have already made use.

One hears at times still of the austere, virtuous, kindly, poor Scotch home, one has a vision
of the "Cottar's Saturday night." "Perish all other dreams," one cries, "rather than that such
goodness and simplicity should end." But now let us look at the average poor Scotch home, and
compare it with our dream.

Here is the reality.

These entries come from the recently published Edinburgh Charity Organization Society's report
upon the homes of about fourteen hundred school-children, that is to say, about eight hundred
Scotch homes. Remember they are sample homes. They are, as I have already suggested by quoting
authorities for London and York--and as any district visitor will recognize--little worse and
little better than the bulk of poor people's homes in Scotland and England at the present time.
I am just going to copy down--not a selection, mind--but a series of consecutive entries taken
haphazard from this implacable list. My last quotation was from cases 1, 2, 3 and so on; I've
now thrust my fingers among the pages and come upon numbers 191 and 192, etc. Here they are,
one after the other, just as they come in the list:--

    "191. A widow and child lodging with a married son. Three
    grown-up people and three children occupy one room and
    bed-closet. The widow leads a wandering life, and is
    intemperate. The house is thoroughly bad and insanitary. The
    child is pallid and delicate looking, and receives little
    attention, for the mother is usually out working. He plays in
    the streets. Five children are dead. Boy has glands and is
    fleabitten. Evidence from Police, School Officer and Employer.

    "192. A miserable home. Father dead. Mother and eldest son
    careless and indifferent. Of the five children, the two eldest
    are grown up. The elder girl is working, and she is of a
    better type and might do well under better circumstances; she
    looks overworked. The mother is supposed to char; she gets
    parish relief, and one child earns out of school hours. Four
    children are dead. The children at school are dirty and
    ragged. The mother could get work if she did not drink. The
    children at school get free dinners and clothing, and the
    family is favourably reported on by the Church. The second
    child impetigo; neck glands; body dirty. The third, glands;
    dirty and fleabitten. Housing: six in two small rooms.
    Evidence from Parish Sister, Parish Council, School Charity,
    Police, Teacher, Children's Employment and School Officer.

    "193. A widow, apparently respectable and well-doing, but may
    drink. She must in any case have a struggle to maintain her
    family, though she has much help from Parish, Church, etc. She
    works out. The children at school are fed, and altogether a
    large amount of charity must be received, as two Churches have
    interested themselves in the matter. Three children dead.
    Housing: three in two tiny rooms. Evidence from Church, Parish
    Council, School Charity, Police, Parish Sister, Teacher,
    Insurance and Factor.

    "194. The father drinks, and, to a certain extent, the mother;
    but the home is tidy and clean, and the rent is regularly
    paid. Indeed, there is no sign of poverty. There is a daughter
    who has got into trouble. Only two children out of nine are
    alive. The father comes from the country and seems intelligent
    enough, but he appears to have degenerated. They go to a
    mission, it is believed for what they can get from it.
    Housing: four in two rooms. Evidence from Club, Church, Factor
    and Police.

    "195. The husband is intemperate. The mother is quiet, but it
    is feared that she drinks also. She seems to have lost control
    of her little boy of seven. The parents married very young,
    and the first child was born before the marriage. The man's
    work is not regular, and probably things are not improving
    with him. Still, the house is fairly comfortable, and they pay
    club money regularly, and have a good police report. One child
    has died. Housing: five in two rooms. Evidence from Parish
    Sister, Police, Club, Employer, School-mistress and Factor.

    "196. A filthy, dirty house. The most elementary notions of
    cleanliness seem disregarded. The father's earnings are not
    large, and the house is insanitary, but more might be made of
    things if there were sobriety and thrift. There does not,
    however, appear to be great drunkenness, and five small
    children must be difficult to bring up on the money coming in.
    There are two women in the house. The eldest child dirty and
    fleabitten. Housing: seven in two rooms. Evidence from Police,
    Club, Employer, School-mistress and School Officer.

    "197. The parents are thoroughly drunken and dissolute. They
    have sunk almost to the lowest depths of social degradation.
    There is no furniture in the house, and the five children are
    neglected and starved. One boy earns a trifle out of school
    hours. All accounts agree as to the character of the father
    and mother, though they have not been in the hands of the
    police. Second child has rickets, bronchitis, slight glands
    and is bow-legged. Two children have died. Housing: seven in
    two rooms. Evidence from Police, Parish Sister, Employer and
    School-mistress.

    "198. This house is fairly comfortable, and there is no
    evidence of drink, but the surroundings have a bad and
    depressing effect on the parents. The children are sent to
    school very untidy and dirty, and are certainly underfed. The
    father's wages are very small, and only one boy is working;
    there are six altogether. The mother chars occasionally. Food
    and clothing is given to school-children. The man is in a
    saving club. The eldest child fleabitten; body unwashed. The
    second, glands; fleabitten and dirty; cretinoid; much
    undergrown. Two have died. Housing: seven in two rooms.
    Evidence from School Charity, Factor, Police and
    School-mistress.

    "199. The house was fairly comfortable and the man appeared to
    be intelligent and the wife hard-working, but the police
    reports are very bad; there are several convictions against
    the former. He has consequently been idle, and the burden of
    the family has rested on the wife. There are six children, two
    of them are working and earning a little, but a large amount
    of charity from school, church and private generosity keeps
    the family going. The children are fearfully verminous. There
    is a suggestion that some baby farming is done, so many are
    about. Eldest child anæmic; glands; head badly crusted; lice
    very bad. Second child, numerous glands; head covered with
    crusts; lice very bad. Four have died. Housing: eight in two
    rooms. Evidence from Police, Teacher, Church, Parish Sister
    and Factor.

    "200. The home is wretched and practically without furniture.
    The parents were married at ages 17 and 18. One child died,
    and their mode of life has been reckless, if not worse. The
    present means of subsistence cannot be ascertained, as the man
    is idle; however, he recently joined the Salvation Army and
    signed the pledge. The child at school is helped with food and
    clothes. The girl very badly bitten; lice and fleas, hair
    nits. Housing: four in one room. Evidence from Church, School
    Charity, Co-operative, Employer, Parish Sister, Police and
    School-mistress."

Total of children still living, 39.

Total of children dead, 27.

Need I go on? They are all after this fashion, eight hundred of them.

And if you turn from the congested town to the wholesome, simple country, here is the sort
of home you have. This passage is a cutting from the Daily News of Jan. 1, 1907; and its assertions
have never been contradicted. It fills one with only the mildest enthusiasm for the return
of our degenerate townsmen "back to the land." I came upon it as I read that morning's paper
after drafting this chapter.

    "Our attention has been called to a sordid Herefordshire
    tragedy recently revealed at an inquest on a child aged one
    year and nine months, who died in Weobly Workhouse of
    pneumonia. And strangely, always wanted
Her eyes did not see! But there behind the trees groaned and threw the Jaeger stood .-- He is
about on his bed, broke out of his mouth violent, disjointed sounds. Suddenly He went up and sat upright,
in the pillow, the reverberation of a sound was in any his ears, and now he knew it, the court
must have come down below it. In the same Moment he stood at the window, hardly the first gray
dawn had begun, but yet he saw it as just slammed the heavy gate. As yet in a dream he had
one of his two guns away by a wall, a window rattled, and the clapping went Ball down there in the
Bohlentor.

Then everything was quiet. He tore the other pistol from the wall, and without clothes, naked Shirt,
he crashed out of the room, the way out he grabbed the hook on the door, but the key is missing.

"Leo,
Leo!" he cried out on the stairs.

"My dog, where are you?" - Nothing stirred. Still Suddenly he cried, and then climbed down into
the still dark hallway.

As his feet were held up by something that did not yield what, and when he bent down, ran his hand
over long silky hair .-- He let out a loud scream. Again he bent down, then he ran - he did
not know even why - in the room of his old Servant, but the deaf old woman sat calmly breathing
in her bed, he took on the table standing light detonated at it and went back out into the hall.
There lay his dog, the legs stretched stiff, her brown eyes big star and open. He threw himself
down and shone ascend close to the candle, a bluish Flor seemed the luster of the eye cover,
cold and, as in silent action, she stared at him .-- Suddenly he felt as if the walls would clear, as he
saw two young figures about the heath and flee the burning light of morning Disappear.

He jumped up and stood in the next few moments in Franziska's chamber .-- It was empty, the bed
touched only lightly, you could see they had only to catch the volatile stretched to the ceiling;
the pillow was still the impression, where she was resting her arm. He would have not let it , Can
he put into his hand as he caressed even this last trace of their lives. As rattled through
accidental contact with the gun in his other hand and suddenly shot A new current of thought
in his head. He was already outside on the stairs, but he came no more .-- What did he want
more - once before his hands had become red. Slowly He climbed the stairs to his bedroom, he shot
the weapon attached to your place; Then he dressed himself completely. When he finished, he stepped
into the living room, pulled the curtains the window and opened it with his keys the tray of the
desk, where the securities had their place.


§ 2.

The reader must get quite out of his head the idea that the present system maintains the home
and social purity.

In London at the present time there are thousands of prostitutes; in Paris, in Berlin, in every
great city of Europe or America, thousands; in the whole of Christendom there cannot be less
than a million of these ultimate instances of our civilization. They are the logical extremity
of a civilization based on cash payments. Each of these women represents a smashed and ruined
home and wasted possibilities of honour, service and love, each one is so much sheer waste.
For the food they consume, their clothing, their lodging, they render back nothing to the community
as a whole, and only a gross, dishonouring satisfaction to their casual employers. And don't
imagine they are inferior women, that there has been any selection of the unfit in their sterilization;
they are, one may see for oneself, well above the average in physical vigour, in spirit and
beauty. Few of them have come freely to their trade, the most unnatural in the world; few of
them have anything but shame and loathing for their life; and most of them must needs face
their calling fortified by drink and drugs. For virtuous people do not begin to understand
the things they endure. But it pays to be a prostitute, it does not pay to be a mother and
a home-maker, and the gist of the present system of individual property is that a thing must
pay to exist.... So much for one aspect of our present system of a "world of homes."

Consider next the great army of employed men and women, shop assistants, clerks, and so forth,
living in, milliners, typists, teachers, servants who have practically no prospect whatever
of marrying and experiencing those domestic blisses the Socialist is supposed to want to rob
them of. They are involuntary monks and nuns, celibate not from any high or religious motive,
but through economic hardship. Consider all that amount of pent-up, thwarted or perverted emotional
possibility, the sheer irrational waste of life implied....

We have glanced at the reality of the family among the poor; what is it among the rich? Does
the wealthy mother of the upper middle-class or upper class really sit among her teeming children,
teaching them in an atmosphere of love and domestic exaltation? As a matter of fact she is
a conspicuously devoted woman if she gives them an hour a day--the rest of the time they spend
with nurse or governess, and when they are ten or eleven off they go to board at the preparatory
school. Whenever I find among my press-cuttings some particularly scathing denunciation of
Socialists as home-destroyers, as people who want to snatch the tender child from the weeping
mother to immure it in some terrible wholesale institution, I am apt to walk out into my garden,
from which three boarding-schools for little children of the prosperous classes are visible,
and rub my eyes and renew that sight and marvel at my kind....

Consider now, with these things in mind, the real drift of the first main Socialist proposition,
and compare its tendency with these contemporary conditions. Socialism regards parentage under
proper safeguards and good auspices as "not only a duty but a service" to the State; that is
to say it proposes to pay for good parentage--in other words to endow the home. Socialism comes
not to destroy but to save.

And how will the endowment be done? Very probably it will be found that the most convenient
and best method of doing this will be to subsidize the mother--who is, or should be, the principal
person concerned in this affair--for her children; to assist her, not as a charity, but as
a right in the period before the birth of her anticipated child, and afterwards to provide
her with support for that child so long as it is kept clean in a tolerable home, in good health,
well taught and properly clad. It will say to the sound mothering woman, Not type-writing,
nor shirt-sewing, nor charing is your business--these children are. Neglect them, ill-treat
them, prove incompetent, and your mother-right will cease and we shall take them away from
you and do what we can for them; love them, serve them and, through them, the State, and you
will serve yourself. Is that destroying the home? Is it not rather the rescue of the home from
economic destruction?

Certain restrictions, it is true, upon our present way of doing things would follow almost
necessarily from the adoption of these methods. It is manifest that no intelligent State would
willingly endow the homes of hopelessly diseased parents, of imbecile fathers or mothers, of
obstinately criminal persons or people incapable of education. It is evident, too, that the
State would not tolerate chance fatherhood, that it would insist very emphatically upon marriage
and the purity of the home, much more emphatically than we do now. Such a case as the one numbered
197, a beautiful instance of the sweet, old-fashioned, homely, simple life of the poor we Socialists
are supposed to be vainly endeavouring to undermine--would certainly be dealt with in a drastic
and conclusive spirit....

§ 3.

So far Socialism goes toward regenerating the family and sustaining the home. But let there
be no ambiguity on one point. It will be manifest that while it would reinvigorate and confirm
the home, it does quite decidedly tend to destroy what has hitherto been the most typical form
of the family throughout the world, that is to say the family which is in effect the private
property of the father, the patriarchal family. The tradition of the family in which we are
still living, we must remember, has developed from a former state in which man owned the wife
or child as completely as he owned horse or hut. He was the family's irresponsible owner. Socialism
seeks to make him and his wife its jointly responsible heads. Until quite recently the husband
might beat his wife and put all sorts of physical constraint upon her; he might starve her
or turn her out of doors; her property was his; her earnings were his; her children were his.
Under certain circumstances it was generally recognized he might kill her. To-day we live in
a world that has faltered from the rigours of this position, but which still clings to its
sentimental consequences. The wife now-a-days is a sort of pampered and protected half-property.
If she leaves her husband for another man, it is regarded not as a public offence on her part,
but as a sort of mitigated theft on the part of the latter, entitling the former to damages.
Politically she doesn't exist; the husband sees to all that. But on the other hand he mustn't
drive her by physical force, but only by the moral pressure of disagreeable behaviour. Nor
has he the same large powers of violence over her children that once he had. He may beat--within
limits. He may dictate their education so far as his religious eccentricities go, and be generous
or meagre with the supplies. He may use his "authority" as a vague power far on into their
adult life, if he is a forcible character. But it is at its best a shorn splendour he retains.
He has ceased to be an autocrat and become a constitutional monarch; the State, sustained by
the growing reasonableness of the world, intervenes more and more between him and the wife
and children who were once powerless in his hands.

The Socialist would end that old legal predominance altogether. The woman, he declares, must
be as important and responsible a citizen in the State as the man. She must cease to be in
any sense or degree private property. The man must desist from tyrannizing in the nursery and
do his proper work in the world. So far, therefore, as the family is a name for a private property
in a group of related human beings vesting in one of them, the Head of the Family, Socialism
repudiates it altogether as unjust and uncivilized; but so far as the family is a grouping
of children with their parents, with the support and consent and approval of the whole community,
Socialism advocates it, would make it for the first time, so far as a very large moiety of
our population is concerned, a possible and efficient thing.

Moreover, as the present writer has pointed out elsewhere,[10] this putting of the home upon
a public basis destroys its autonomy. Just as the Socialist and all who have the cause of civilization
at heart would substitute for the inefficient, wasteful, irresponsible, unqualified "private
adventure school" that did such infinite injury to middle-class education in Great Britain
during the Victorian period a public school, publicly and richly endowed and responsible and
controlled, so the Socialist would put an end to the uncivilized go-as-you-please of the private
adventure family. Socialism seeks to broaden the basis of the family and to make the once irresponsible
parent responsible to the State for its welfare. Socialism creates parental responsibility.

   [10] Socialism and the Family. (A. C. Fifield. 6d.)

   [11] Socialism and the Family.

§ 4.

And here we may give a few words to certain questions that are in reality outside the scope
of Socialists altogether, special questions involving the most subtle ethical and psychological
decisions. Upon them Socialists are as widely divergent as people who are not Socialists, and
Socialism as a whole presents nothing but an open mind. They are questions that would be equally
open to discussion in relation to an Individualist State or to any sort of State. Certain religious
organizations have given clear and imperative answers to some or all of these questions, and
so far as the reader is a member of such an organization, he may rest assured that Socialism,
as an authoritative whole, has nothing to say for or against his convictions. This cannot be
made too plain by Socialists, nor too frequently repeated by them. A very large part of the
so-called arguments against them arise out of deliberate misrepresentations and misconceptions
of some alleged Socialist position in these indifferent matters.

I refer more particularly to the numerous problems in private morality and social organization
arising from sexual conduct. May a man love one woman only in his life, or more, and may a
woman love only one man? Should marriage be an irrevocable life union or not? Is sterile physical
love possible, permissible, moral, honourable or intolerable? Upon all these matters individual
Socialists, like most other people, have their doubts and convictions, but it is no more just
to saddle all Socialism with their private utterances and actions upon these issues than it
would be to declare that the Roman Catholic Communion is hostile to beauty because worshippers
coming and going have knocked the noses off the figures on the bronze doors of the Church of
San Zeno at Verona, or that Christianity involves the cultivation of private vermin, because
of the condition of Saint Thomas à Beckett's hair shirt.[12] To argue in that way is to give
up one's birthright as a reasonable being.

   [12] "The haircloth encased the whole body down to the
        knees; the hair drawers, as well as the rest of the dress,
        being covered on the outside with white linen so as to
        escape observation; and the whole so fastened together as to
        admit of being readily taken off for his daily scourgings,
        of which yesterday's portion was still apparent in the
        stripes on his body. Such austerity had hitherto been
        unknown to English saints, and the marvel was increased by
        the sight--to our notions so revolting--of the innumerable
        vermin with which the haircloth abounded--boiling over with
        them, as one account describes it, like water in a simmering
        cauldron. At the dreadful sight all the enthusiasm of the
        previous night revived with double ardour. They looked at
        each other in silent wonder, then exclaimed, 'See, see what
        a true monk he was, and we knew it not!' and burst into
        alternate fits of weeping and laughter, between the sorrow
        of having lost such a head, and the joy of having found such
        a saint." (Historical Memorials of Canterbury, by the Rev.
        Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, D.D.)

Upon certain points modern Socialism is emphatic; women and children must not be dealt with
as private property, women must be citizens equally with men, children must not be casually
born, their parents must be known and worthy; that is to say there must be deliberation in
begetting children, marriage under conditions. And there Socialism stops.

Socialism has not even worked out what are the reasonable conditions of a State marriage contract,
and it would be ridiculous to pretend it had. This is not a defect in Socialism particularly,
but a defect in human knowledge. At countless points in the tangle of questions involved, the
facts are not clearly known. Socialism does not present any theory whatever about the duration
of marriage, whether, as among the Roman Catholics, it should be absolutely for life, or, as
some hold, for ever; or, as among the various divorce-permitting Protestant bodies, until this
or that eventuality; or even, as Mr. George Meredith suggested some years ago, for a term of
ten years. In these matters Socialism does not decide, and it is quite reasonable to argue
that Socialism need not decide. Socialism maintains an attitude of neutrality. And the practical
effect of an attitude of neutrality is to leave these things as they are at present. The State
is not urgently concerned with these questions. So long as a marriage contract provides for
the health and sanity of the contracting parties, and for their proper behaviour so far as
their offspring is concerned, and for so long as their offspring need it, the demands of the
community, as the guardian of the children, are satisfied. That certainly would be the minimum
marriage, the State marriage, and I, for my own part, would exact nothing more in the legal
contract. But a number of more representative Socialists than I are for a legally compulsory
life marriage. Some--but they are mostly of the older, less definite, Social Democratic teaching--are
for a looser tie. Let us clearly understand that we are here talking of the legal marriage
only--the State's share. We are not talking of what people will do, but of how much they are
to be made to do. A vast amount of stupid confusion arises from forgetting that. What was needed
more than that minimum I have specified would be provided, I believe--it always has been provided
hitherto, even to excess--by custom, religion, social influence, public opinion.

For it may not be altogether superfluous to remind the reader how little of our present moral
code is ruled by law. We have in England, it is true, certain laws prescribing the conditions
of the marriage contract, penalties of a quite ferocious kind to prevent bigamy, and a few
quite trivial disabilities put upon those illegitimately born. But there is no legal compulsion
upon any one to marry now, and far less legal restriction upon irregular and careless parentage
than would be put in any scientifically organized Socialism. Do let us get it out of our heads
that monogamy is enforced by law at the present time. It is not. You are only forbidden to
enter into normal marriage with more than one person. If a man of means chooses to have as
many concubines as King Solomon and live with them all openly, the law (I am speaking of Great
Britain) will do nothing to prevent him. If he chooses to go through any sort of nuptial ceremony,
provided it does not simulate a legal marriage, with some or all of them he may. And to any
one who evades the legal marriage bond, there is a vast range of betrayal and baseness as open
as anything can be. "Free Love" is open to any one who chooses to practise it to-day. The real
controlling force in these matters is social influence, public opinion, a sort of conscience
and feeling for the judgment of others that is part of the normal human equipment. And the
same motives and considerations that keep people's lives pure and discreet now, will be all
the more freely in operation under Socialism, when money will count for less and reputation
for more than they do now. Modern Socialism is a project to change the organization of living
and the circle of human ideas; but it is no sort of scheme to attempt the impossible, to change
human nature and to destroy the social sensitiveness of man.

I do not deny the intense human interest of these open questions, the imperative need there
is to get the truth, whether one considers it to be one's own truth or the universal truth,
upon them. But my point is that they are to be discussed apart from Socialist theory, and that
anyhow they have nothing to do with Socialist politics. It is no doubt interesting to discuss
the benefits of vaccination and the justice and policy of its public compulsion, to debate
whether one should eat meat or confine oneself to a vegetable dietary, whether the overhead
or the slot system is preferable for tramway traction, whether steamboats are needed on the
Thames in winter, and whether it is wiser to use metal or paper for money; but none of these
things have anything to do with the principles of Socialism. Nor need we decide whether Whistler,
Raphael or Carpaccio has left us the most satisfying beauty, or which was the greater musician,
Wagner, Scarlatti or Beethoven, nor pronounce on the Bacon-Shakespeare controversy in any prescribed
way, because we accept Socialism.

Coming to graver matters there are ardent theologians who would create an absolute antagonism
between Socialism and Christianity, who would tie up Socialism with some extraordinary doctrine
of Predestination, or deny the possibility of a Christian being a Socialist or a Socialist
being a Christian. But these are matters on different planes. In a sense Socialism is a religion;
to me it is a religion, in the sense, that is, that it gives a work to do that is not self-seeking,
that it determines one in a thousand indecisions, that it supplies that imperative craving
of so many human souls, a devotion. But I do not see why a believer in any of the accepted
creeds of Christianity, from the Apostles' Creed upward, should not also whole-heartedly give
himself to this great work of social reconstruction. To believe in a real and personal Heaven
is surely not to deny earth with its tragedy, its sorrows, its splendid possibilities. It is
simply to believe a little more concretely than I do, that is all. To assert the brotherhood
of man under God seems to me to lead logically to a repudiation of the severities of Private
Ownership--that is to Socialism. When the rich young man was told to give up his property to
follow Christ, when the disciples were told to leave father and mother, it seems to me ridiculous
to present Christianity as opposed to the self-abnegation of the two main generalizations of
Socialism--that relating to property in things, and that relating to property in persons. It
is true that the Church of Rome has taken the deplorable step of forbidding Socialism (or at
least Socialismus) to its adherents; but there is no need for Socialists to commit a reciprocal
stupidity. Let us Socialists at any rate keep our intellectual partitions up. The Church that
now quarrels with Socialism once quarrelled with astronomy and geology, and astronomers and
geologists went on with their own business. Both religion and astronomy are still alive and
in the same world together. And the Vatican observatory, by the bye, is honourably distinguished
for its excellent stellar photographs. Perhaps, after all, the Church does not mean by Socialismus
Socialism as it is understood in English; perhaps it simply means the dogmatically anti-Christian
Socialism of the Continental type.

I am not advocating indifference to any interest I have here set aside as irrelevant to Socialism.
Men have discussed and will, I hope, continue to discuss such questions as I have instanced
with passionate zeal; but Socialism need not be entangled by their decisions. We can go on
our road to Socialism, we can get to Socialism, to the Civilized State, whichever answer is
given to any of these questions, great or small.

CHAPTER VII

WOULD MODERN SOCIALISM ABOLISH ALL PROPERTY?

§ 1.

Having in the previous chapter cleared up a considerable mass of misconception and possibility
of misrepresentation about the attitude of Socialism to the home, let us now devote a little
more attention to the current theory of property and say just exactly where Modern Socialism
stands in that matter.

The plain fact of the case is that the Socialist, whether he wanted to or no, would no more
be able to abolish personal property altogether than he would be able to abolish the human
liver. The extension of one's personality to things outside oneself is indeed as natural and
instinctive a thing as eating. But because the liver is necessary and inevitable, there is
no reason why it should be enlarged to uncomfortable proportions, and because eating is an
unconquerable instinct there is no excuse for repletion. The position of the modern Socialist
is that the contemporary idea of personal property is enormously exaggerated and improperly
extended to things that ought not to be "private"; not that it is not a socially most useful
and desirable idea within its legitimate range.

There can be no doubt that many of those older writers who were "Socialists before Socialism,"
Plato, for instance, and Sir Thomas More, did very roundly abolish private property altogether.
They were extreme Communists, and so were many of the earlier Socialists; in More's Utopia,
doors might not be fastened, they stood open; one hadn't even a private room. These earlier
writers wished to insist upon the need of self-abnegation in the ideal State, and to startle
and confound, they insisted overmuch. The early Christians, one gathers, were almost completely
communistic, and that interesting experiment in Christian Socialism (of a rather unorthodox
type of Christianity), the American Oneida community, was successfully communistic in every
respect for many years. But the modern Socialist is not a communist; the modern Socialist,
making his scheme of social reconstruction for the whole world and for every type of character,
recognizes the entire impracticability of such dreams, recognizing, too, it may be, the sacrifice
of human personality and distinction such ideals involve.

The word "property," one must remember, is a slightly evasive word. Absolute property hardly
exists--absolute, that is to say, in the sense of unlimited right of disposal; almost all property
is incomplete and relative. A man, under our present laws, has no absolute property even in
his own life; he is restrained from suicide and punished if he attempt it. He may not go offensively
filthy nor indecently clad; there are limits to his free use of his body. The owner of a house,
of land, of a factory is subject to all sorts of limitations, building regulations for example,
and so is the owner of horse or dog. Nor again is any property exempt from taxation. Even now
property is a limited thing, and it is well to bear that much in mind. It can be defined as
something one may do "what one likes with," subject only to this or that specific restriction,
and at any time, it would seem, the State is at least legally entitled to increase the quantity
and modify the nature of the restriction. The extremest private property is limited to a certain
sanity and humanity in its use.

In that sense every adult now-a-days has private property in his or her own person, in clothes,
in such personal implements as hand-tools, as a bicycle, as a cricket-bat or golf-sticks. In
quite the same sense would he have it under Socialism so far as these selfsame things go. The
sense of property in such things is almost instinctive; my little boys of five and three have
the keenest sense of mine and (almost, if not quite so vividly) thine in the matter of toys
and garments. The disposition of modern Socialism is certainly no more to override these natural
tendencies than it is to fly in the face of human nature in regard to the home. The disposition
of modern Socialism is indeed far more in the direction of confirming and insuring this natural
property. And again modern Socialism has no designs upon the money in a man's pocket. It is
quite true that the earlier and extreme Socialist theorists did in their communism find no
use for money, but I do not think there are any representative Socialists now who do not agree
that the State must pay and receive in money, that money is indispensable to human freedom.
The featurelessness of money, its universal convertibility, gives human beings a latitude of
choice and self-expression in its spending that is inconceivable without its use.

All such property Socialism will ungrudgingly sustain, and it will equally sustain property
in books and objects of æsthetic satisfaction, in furnishing, in the apartments or dwelling-house
a man or woman occupies and in their household implements. It will sustain far more property
than the average working-class man has to-day. Nor will it prevent savings or accumulations,
if men do not choose to expend their earnings--nor need it interfere with lending. How far
it will permit or countenance usury is another question altogether. There will no doubt remain,
after all the work-a-day needs of the world have been met by a scientific public organization
of the general property in Nature, a great number of businesses and enterprises and new and
doubtful experiments outside the range of legitimate State activity. In these, interested and
prosperous people will embark their surplus money as shareholders in a limited liability company,
making partnership profits or losses in an entirely proper manner. But whether there should
be debentures and mortgages or preference shares, or suchlike manipulatory distinctions, or
interest in any shape or form, I am inclined to doubt. A money-lender should share risk as
well as profit--that is surely the moral law in lending that forbids usury; he should not be
allowed to bleed a failing business with his inexorable percentage and so eat up the ordinary
shareholder or partner any more than the landlord should be allowed to eat up the failing tenant
for rent. That was once the teaching of Christianity, and I do not know enough of the history
or spiritual development of the Catholic Church to tell when she became what she now appears
to be--the champion of the rent-exacting landlord and the usurer against Socialism. It is the
present teaching of Socialism. If usury obtains at all under the Socialist State, if inexorable
repayments are to be made in certain cases, it will, I conceive, be a State monopoly. The State
will be the sole banker for every hoard and every enterprise, just as it will be the universal
landlord and the universal fire and accident and old age insurance office. In money matters
as in public service and administration, it will stand for the species, the permanent thing
behind every individual accident and adventure.

Posthumous property, that is to say the power to bequeath and the right to inherit things,
will also persist in a mitigated state under Socialism. There is no reason whatever why it
should not do so. There is a strong natural sentiment in favour of the institution of heirlooms,
for example; one feels a son might well own--though he should certainly not sell--the intimate
things his father desires to leave him. The pride of descent is an honourable one, the love
for one's blood, and I hope that a thousand years from now some descendant will still treasure
an obsolete weapon here, a picture there, or a piece of faint and faded needlework from our
days and the days before our own. One may hate inherited privileges and still respect a family
tree.

Widows and widowers again have clearly a kind of natural property in the goods they have shared
with the dead; in the home, in the garden close, in the musical instruments and books and pleasant
home-like things. Now, in nine cases out of ten, we do in effect bundle the widow out; she
remains nominally owner of the former home, but she has to let it furnished or sell it, to
go and live in a boarding-house or an exiguous flat.

Even perhaps a proportion of accumulated money may reasonably go to friend or kin. It is a
question of public utility; Socialism has done with absolute propositions in all such things,
and views these problems now as questions of detail, matters for fine discriminations. We want
to be quit of pedantry. All that property which is an enlargement of personality, the modern
Socialist seeks to preserve; it is that exaggerated property that gives power over the food
and needs of one's fellow-creatures, property and inheritance in land, in industrial machinery,
in the homes of others and in the usurer's grip upon others, that he seeks to destroy. The
more doctrinaire Socialists will tell you they do not object to property for use and consumption,
but only to property in "the means of production," but I do not choose to resort to over-precise
definitions. The general intention is clear enough, the particular instance requires particular
application. The Barbarians have already jumped on the palisades. Both armies
were facing each other on javelin throw.

A Balearic slingers took a step forward, a Tonkugel put it in his belt and they shot down, by making
the necessary handles.

Over there the enemy broke an ivory plate, and the two armies were blows.

The Greeks stood the enemy's horses with their lances into the nostrils, so that she rolled
over and fell on their own tab. The slaves had large stones thrown, they therefore come close before
them again to the ground. When you strike out with their long swords were the Punic infantry
her right flank uncovered. The Barbarians broke through the ranks and made it down as rotting. They
stumbled over the dying and Dead, because they saw nothing out of sheer blood splashed in their
faces. This confusion of lances, helmets, armor, swords and limbs turned to extended itself to
and withdrew from elastic back together. The Carthaginian companies of thinned always more. Her
guns were stuck in the sand. At the end of the litter disappeared even Suffet, his great kristallglitzernde
litter, since you start always struggle between the fighters had been seen up and down waves,
like a boat on the water. Without doubt Hannah had fallen!

Immediately saw the barbarians alone.

The dust around them fell, and she had already begun to sing. As appeared in Hanno very own person
on an elephant. Bareheaded, he was sitting under a beach umbrella baumwollnen, the one standing
behind him holding Negroes. His necklace made of blue metal signs rattled on the painted flowers
of his black tunic. Diamond tire spanned his thick arms. His mouth was open. The huge spear
in his hand, at the top like a lotus flower looked bright shining as a mirror. Soon the ground
rumbled, and the barbarians saw approaching storm in a single line all the elephants of Carthage, with
its gilded Tusks, their ears and their blue-painted iron tanks. rocked
on their scarlet blankets leather towers, in which stood three archers
with large bow drawn.

The soldiers had barely time to take up arms. They formed at random links and Rotten. The shock
made her rigid and helpless.

Even from the towers rained down arrows to fire bullets and lead masses down to them. Some of
the Barbarians clinging to the fringes of the fixed ceiling and wanted to climb. It struck them
with short swords from the hands, so that it backward into the bristling swords of the other collapsed.
The lances were too weak and walked two. The elephants broke into the ranks one, such as boar
in a thicket.

They tore with their trunks from the picket posts, stormed through the camp from one end to another,
and threw at her breast the tents. The barbarians were all fled.

They took cover behind the hills that bordered the valley, through the The Carthaginians were marching.

Hannah
drew a winner before the gates of Utica. There, he blew a trumpet. The three councils the city
appeared at the top of a tower in an embrasure of the parapet.

       The people of Utica were reluctant to include as well-armed people.

Hanno has been fierce. Finally agreed to him involved with a weak escort. The elephants were the roads
too narrow. They had to stay outside.

Once the Suffet was in town, came the patrician, to greet him. He settled in the Baths lead and
called his chefs.

* * * * *

Three hours later he was still sitting in the big tub filled with cinnamon oil. An ox hide
was stretched out before him.

From it, a table, he feasted on the beach flamingo tongues with poppy seeds in honey sauce. Beside
him stood motionless in a long yellow robe his Greek physician and had from time to time pour hot
oil.

Two boys were on the steps of the pool flexed and massaged the bather's
legs.

But the care of his body was doing its political passion not be stopped and he dictated a letter
to the Grand Council, and as had been made prisoners, he wondered, what horrible punishment
he invented for them should.

"Stop!" He commanded the slaves, who wrote standing on the palm of his hand. "They live a few
by the prisoners in! I want to see them! "

From the back of the room filled with white steam, in which the torches like red Glutflecke
shone, we drove immediately caused three barbarians: a Samnite, a
Spartan and a Cappadocia.

"Write more," said Hanno.

"Rejoice, O God of grace! Your Suffet has wiped out the greedy dog! Blessing on the Republic!
! Associates prayers Then he saw the prisoners, and burst into laughter:
"Ah!

My heroes of Sikka! Why are you shouting for today? I am as much! Do you recognize me not? Where
did you get your sword? You're terrible fellows! Damn it! "He did
as if to hide, as he was afraid of them.

"Your horses, women, and country have, Offices requires, of course,
and sinecures!

Well, I'm going to send in a country that you never more should leave! And the gallows you shall
embrace all jüngferliche! Your pay? Is the you can cast from molten lead ingots in the mouth! And
high places, I want you too , Give very high, sky high, lest the
vultures are quite close ... "

The three long-haired, clad in rags Barbarians looked at him without understanding what he said.
It had caught on the knee injured by them threw ropes over. The ends of their heavy chains
hand dragged out over the stone tiles. Hanno was whether their Insensitivity angry.

"Down! Down! You beasts! Filth you are! Vermin! Crap! And you will not answer! Good! Silent
- They were alive to pull the fur! At once! "

He snorted like a hippopotamus, and rolled his eyes. The fragrant oil flowed through a crude Movement
of his body over and padded his scaly skin. In the torch light, she looked bright.

He continued to dictate:

"We have four days have long suffered severely from the sunburn.

At the crossing of the Makar Loss of mules. Despite the strong position, the extraordinary
courage ...-- Demonades! I have a lot of pain! Man Feure the oven
until your brick!

"

You could hear the sound of the furnace door and the paddling. The incense in wide pans whirled
stronger, and the bathing naked servants who were sweating like sponges rubbed, the Carthaginians the joints
with a cream of wheat, sulfur, red wine, dog milk, myrrh, galbanum and Storaxbaumharz. Incessant
thirst consumed him.

But the man in yellow robes moved this is not lust. He handed him a golden cup in which evaporated
only viper broth.

"Drink," he said, "so you like the power of the sun-born snakes in the marrow of the bones penetrate
and take heart, you image of the gods! You know, moreover, that a priest Eshmun the cruel stars
in the vicinity of Sirius observed, which is due your disease. They fade like the spots on your
skin. You will not die so that. "

"Yes, yes, do you?" Was one of the Suffet. "I do not have to die of it," And the reddish-blue
Flowed from his lips a breath disgusting than the smell of a corpse. Two coals seemed to glow
instead of his lashless eyes. At the end hung a lump of wrinkled
Skin.

His ears stood and watched from the fact of the greater, and the deep furrows that in semi-circles
around his nose ran, gave him something strange, appalling; the appearance of a wild animal.
His voice was distorted roar.

"You may be right, Demonades," he said. "Indeed, in this case, several ulcers is closed! I feel strong.
Because, just see how I eat! "

With these words he made less of an appetite than of ostentation and with themselves To prove that
he was healthy, the farce of cheese and marjoram, the boned fish,
the pumpkins, oysters, eggs, radishes, truffles and the little spit-roasted
birds.

He looked intently at the prisoners and gloated in the thoughts of their impending Torture. But then
he remembered Sikka, and the anger of all his former anger erupted in invective against the three
men.

"Gang! Traitor! Scoundrel you are! Villain! Damn! You have to insult me ​​do me, the Suffet!
Your services? The reward for your blood? Have you not said so! Ha, ha, ! Your blood, "he went on
talking as if to himself:" All together they shall die! Not one is on sale! But perhaps it would
be better to take them to Carthage? As accessories for me? But ... I certainly have not brought
chains enough ... Write: Send me ...-- How many prisoners are there? One question immediately
after that Muthumbal!

Away! But no pity! You bring me baskets in their hands had been cut off! "

At that moment came a strange cry, hoarse and shrill but, in the room,
and Hanno's voice drowned out the clatter of dishes, the auftafelte
to him.

It was always stronger, and suddenly rang the Wutgebrüll the elephants, as if the battle of new
patronize. Clamored around the city and roared loudly.

The Carthaginians had not attempted to pursue the barbarians. They had, at the foot the walls, stored
with their luggage, their servants and all her royal retinue. You rejoiced in their beautiful,
pearl-bedecked tents, while the mercenary camp outside was in the
plane just a pile of rubble.

Spendius had recovered his courage. He sent Zarzas to Matho roamed the woods and gathered his
men. The losses were minor.

They arranged themselves in ranks, full of anger that they had been defeated without a fight. Since
it was discovered a large barrel of crude oil, which apparently left behind by the Carthaginians
had been. Spendius immediately had to get out of the pig farms Meier, they smeared with oil,
lit it and let the animals rush to Utica.

Frightened by the fire, took the elephants to escape and ran uphill. Man flung them to throw spears.
Then she turned and slotted the Carthaginians with their tusks the bodies on or crushed and trampled
them with their feet. came back to the animals The Barbarians down
the hill.

The Punic camp, which had no wall, was the first Starting taken and plundered. The Carthaginians
were driven to the gates of the city. From was fear of the mercenaries do not open it. The day
dawned.

From the west you could see Mathos Infantry marching approach. At the same time appeared cavalry.
That was his Naravas Numidia. They set off over hedges and ditches, and inciting the refugees,
such as hunting dogs the rabbit. This change the fortunes of war surprised the Suffet. He shouted
that they should he help from the bath.

The three prisoners were still standing before him. Then he whispered a Negro - the same that
a few words in his ear - in the battle wore his umbrella.

"Oh?" Said the Suffet slowly.

"Yes, kill them," he added in a gruff tone.

The Ethiopians pulled a long dagger from his belt, and dropped the three heads. One of them rolled
over the remains of the meal, and fell into the swimming pool.

For a while he was swimming.

The morning light came through the wall columns.

The three bodies lay on the chest. Their blood flowed in thick beams, from three sources.
A carpet of blood ran down the mosaic, with blue Sand was sprinkled. The Suffet dipped her hand
in these hot mud and rubbed his Knee it! It was regarded as a remedy.

When it became evening, he departed with his entourage from the city. In the direction of the Mountains,
he sought to take his army.

He found only the ruins of it again.

Four days after that he was in Gorza, at the height of a passport, when the troops of the Spendius
identified in depth. With twenty good lances directed against the vanguard of their marching
column, they easily could have been staying. But the Carthaginians were the highest in dismay
. March past Hanno saw in the rear the prince of Numidia. Naravas tended is a greeting, and
made it a character that did not understand the Carthaginians.

In all kinds of needs you can return to Carthage. Only the night march was, during the day hid
it in the olive trees. At each stop people died. Several times it was believed is completely lost.
At last, reached the Hermäische foothills, where they ship shots.

Hannah was so tired, so desperate - especially troubled him the loss of the elephants - Demonades
poison that he asked for to make his own life.

He had felt as if he already nailed to the cross.

But Carthage was not the strength to be angry with him. The expedition had almost a Million marks,
eighteen elephants, fourteen members of the Council, three hundred patricians, eight thousand
Citizens, cereal for three months, cost considerably more luggage and all war machines. The drop
in Naravas was beyond doubt. The two sieges began anew. Autarits Army stretched now from Tunis
to the wheel. From the summit of the Acropolis was seen in the plane long plumes of smoke rising
into the sky. These were the burning of the magnificent mansions Carthaginian patricians. A single
man could still save the Republic. It is regretted have misunderstood him, and even the peace party
voted to the gods of fire victims to bring to Hamilcar return.

The sight of Zaimph Salammbo had deeply shaken. At night they believed the steps of Goddess
heard and woke up, terrified scream.

Every day they had food in the temple . Who Taanach ran away when executing their commands tired,
and they did not leave Schahabarim more.

VII

Hamilcar Barca

The Mondsignalist who watched every night on the roof of Eschmuntempels and with his Trumpet
the movements of the sun, announced one morning in the West noticed
something was like a bird that hung suffered with long wings on the
sea surface. It was a ship with three banks of oars. At the bow there
was a carved horse. The sun rose. The observer the hand before her
eyes. Then he quickly grabbed his trumpet and let her brazen Far cry
go forth out of Carthage.

People rushed out of the houses. You would
not believe the rumor. We quarreled. The Außenkai was covered with
people. Finally recognized the Trireme Hamilcar.

In a proud, defiant
attitude approached the battleship. The yard at just the right angle
extended to the side, the inflated triangular sail around the mast,
so average is the foam of the waves, while his huge helm, the water
rhythmically beat. From time to time came the end of the plow blade
shaped like a keel to light, and under the Ram, in the last year of
bug lights, the ivory head of the horse, whose high-rise front legs
to gallop over the ocean surface appeared.

On the foothills, where
the wind stopped, dropped the sail, and you saw a man next to the
pilot are uncovered head. That he was. The Suffet Hamilcar! Around
the waist he wore a sparkling Erzpanzer. A red cloak, fastened at
the shoulders, had to free his arms. Two very long Beads hung from
his ears, and his thick black beard flowed down to the chest. 

Meanwhile,
the galley went swinging through the cliffs and then along the quay.
The amount followed her to the pavement and cried:

"Peace and blessings!
Loved the sun! Be thou our liberators! The patricians are to blame
for everything! They want to kill you! Be on guard, Barca! "

He did
not answer, as if it made the noise of the seas and the noise of battle
deaf had. But when he passed under the large staircase that led up
to the Acropolis, stood his head and looked at his arms crossed, the
temple Eshmun. Then his gaze wandered still higher up wide in the
clear sky. With sharp voice, he called his sailors a command to. The
Trireme faster then slipped past the divine image, the projections
on the Außenkais was established in order to avert the storms, and
elongated by the commercial port, full of debris, wood chips and fruit
peel was. She pushed and pushed the merchant vessels aside, which
were attached to posts and expired in crocodile jaws. The people came
running. Some tried heranzuschwimmen. But already the galley was at
the end of the trading port before the nails studded gate. It rattled
into the air and disappeared into the depths of the Trireme the vault.

The
naval port of the city was closed completely. When envoys arrived,
they were between high walls, passed through a corridor through the
west side wall after the Khamontempel led. The wide expanse of the
harbor was about war as a drinking cup and a Kai with two hundred
and twenty radial vessel halls - one for each pentene - framed. Before
them, on the walls of separation Dockrinnen, according to a towering
column of Ammon horns the capitals. This created a continuous series,
an arcade, all around the harbor. In the middle, on an island that
rose the Admiral House.

The water was so clear that you look down
to the white pebble stone paving of the ground could. The
proprietor no longer comes to the door, and his first bright confidence is gone. He regards
one now through the darkling panes with a gloomy animosity. He suspects one all too truly of
dealing with the "Stores." ... Then suddenly he has gone; the savings are gone, and the shop--like
a hungry maw--waits for a new victim. There is the simple common tragedy of the little shop;
the landlord of the house has his money all right, the ground landlord has, of course, every
penny of his money, the kindly wholesalers are well out of it, and the young couple or the
old people, as the case may be, are looking for work or the nearest casual ward--just as though
there was no such virtue as thrift in the world.

The particular function of the British lodging-house--though the science of economics is silent
on this point--is to use up the last strength of the trusty old servant and the plucky widow.
These people will invest from two or three hundred to a thousand pounds in order to gain a
bare subsistence by toiling for boarders and lodgers. It is their idea of a safe investment.
They can see it all the time. All over England this process goes on. The curious inquirer may
see every phase for himself by simply looking for rooms among the apartment houses of such
a region as Camden Town, London; he will realize more and more surely as he goes about that
none of these people gain money, none of them ever recover the capital they sink, they are
happy if they die before their inevitable financial extinction. It is so habitual with people
to think of classes as stable, of a butcher or a baker as a man who keeps a shop of a certain
sort at a certain level throughout a long and indeterminate life, that it may seem incredible
to many readers that those two typically thrifty classes, the lodging-letting householder and
the small retailer, are maintained by a steady supply of failing individuals; the fact remains
that it is so. Their little savings are no good to them, investments and business beginnings
mock them alike: steadily, relentlessly our competitive system eats them up.

It is said that no class of people in the community is more hostile to Socialism and Socialistic
legislation than these small owners and petty investors, these small ratepayers. They do not
understand. Rent they consider in the nature of things like hunger and thirst; the economic
process that dooms the weak enterprise to ruin is beyond the scope of their intelligence; but
the rate-collector who calls and calls again for money, for more money, to educate "other people's
children," to "keep paupers in luxury," to "waste upon roads and light and trams," seems the
agent of an unendurable wrong. So the poor creatures go out pallidly angry to vote down that
hated thing municipal enterprise, and to make still more scope for that big finance that crushes
them in the wine-press of its exploitation. It is a wretched and tragic antagonism, for which
every intelligent Socialist must needs have sympathy, which he must meet with patience--and
lucid explanations. If the public authority took rent there would be no need of rates; that
is the more obvious proposition. But the ampler one is the cruelty, the absurdity and the social
injury of the constant consumption of unprotected savings which is an essential part of our
present system.

It is a doctrinaire and old-fashioned Socialism that quarrels with the little hoard; the quarrel
of modern Socialism is with the landowner and the great capitalist who devour it.

§ 4.

While we are discussing the true attitude of modern Socialism to property, it will be well
to explain quite clearly the secular change of opinion that is going on in the Socialist ranks
in regard to the process of expropriation. Even in the case of those sorts of property that
Socialism repudiates, property in land, natural productions, inherited business capital and
the like, Socialism has become humanized and rational from its first extreme and harsh positions.

The earlier Socialism was fierce and unjust to owners. "Property is Robbery," said Proudhon,
and right down to the nineties Socialism kept too much of the spirit of that proposition. The
property owner was to be promptly and entirely deprived of his goods, and to think himself
lucky he was not lynched forthwith as an abominable rascal. The first Basis of the Fabian Society,
framed so lately as 1884, seems to repudiate "compensation," even a partial compensation of
property owners, though in its practical proposals the Fabian Society has always admitted compensatory
arrangements. The exact words of the Basis are "without compensation though not without such
relief to expropriated individuals as may seem fit to the community." The wording is pretty
evidently the result of a compromise between modern views and older teachings. If the Fabian
Society were rewriting its Basis now I doubt if any section would insist even upon that eviscerated
"without compensation."

Now property is not robbery. It may be a mistake, it may be unjust and socially disadvantageous
to recognize private property in these great common interests, but every one concerned, and
the majority of the property owners certainly, held and hold in good faith, and do their best
by the light they have. We live to-day in a vast tradition of relationships in which the rightfulness
of that kind of private property is assumed, and suddenly, instantly, to deny and abolish it
would be--I write this as a convinced and thorough Socialist--quite the most dreadful catastrophe
human society could experience. For what sort of provisional government should we have in that
confusion?

Expropriation must be a gradual process, a process of economic and political readjustment,
accompanied at every step by an explanatory educational advance. There is no reason why a cultivated
property owner should not welcome and hasten its coming. Modern Socialism is prepared to compensate
him, not perhaps "fully" but reasonably, for his renunciations and to avail itself of his help,
to relieve him of his administrative duties, his excess of responsibility for estate and business.
It does not grudge him a compensating annuity nor terminating rights of user. It has no intention
of obliterating him nor the things he cares for. It wants not only to socialize his possessions,
but to socialize his achievement in culture and all that leisure has taught him of the possibilities
of life. It wants all men to become as fine as he. Its enemy is not the rich man but the aggressive
rich man, the usurer, the sweater, the giant plunderer, who are developing the latent evil
of riches. It repudiates altogether the conception of a bitter class-war between those who
Have and those who Have Not.

But this new tolerant spirit in method involves no weakening of the ultimate conception. Modern
Socialism sets itself absolutely against the creation of new private property out of land,
or rights or concessions not yet assigned. All new great monopolistic enterprises in transit,
building and cultivation, for example, must from the first be under public ownership. And the
chief work of social statesmanship, the secular process of government, must be the steady,
orderly resumption by the community, without violence and without delay, of the land, of the
apparatus of transit, of communication, of food distribution and of all the great common services
of mankind, and the care and training of a new generation in their collective use and in more
civilized conceptions of living.

CHAPTER VIII

THE MIDDLE-CLASS MAN, THE BUSINESS MAN, AND SOCIALISM

§ 1.

Let me insert here a few remarks upon a question that arises naturally out of the preceding
discussion, and that is the future of that miscellaneous section of the community known as
the middle class. It is one that I happen to know with a peculiar intimacy.

For a century or more the grinding out of the middle class has been going on. I began to find
it interesting--altogether too interesting indeed, when I was still only a little boy. My father
was one of that multitude of small shopkeepers which has been caught between the "Stores" and
such-like big distributors above and the rising rates below, and from the knickerbocker stage
onward I was acutely aware of the question hanging over us. "This isn't going on," was the
proposition. "This shop in which our capital is invested will never return it. Nobody seems
to understand what is happening, and there is nobody to advise or help us. What are we going
to do?"

Except that people are beginning to understand a little now what it all means, exactly the
same question hangs over many hundreds of thousands of households to-day, not only over the
hundreds of small shopkeepers, but of small professional men, of people living upon small parcels
of investments, of clerks who find themselves growing old and their value depreciated by the
competition of a new, better-educated generation, of private school-masters, of boarding-and
lodging-house keepers and the like. They are all vaguely aware of something more than personal
failure, of a drift and process which is against all their kind, of the need of "doing something"
for themselves and their children, something different from just sticking to the shop or the
"situation"--and they don't know what to do! What ought they to do?

Well, first, before one answers that, let us ask what it is exactly that is grinding the middle
class in this way. Is it a process we can stop? Can we direct the millstones? If we can, ought
we to do so? And if we cannot, or decide that it isn't worth while, then what can we do to
mitigate this cruelty of slowly impoverishing and taxing out of existence a class that was
once the backbone of the community? It is not mere humanity dictates this much, it is a question
that affects the State as a whole. It must be extremely bad for the spirit of the nation and
for our national future that its middle mass should be in a state of increasing financial worry
and stress, irritated, depressed, and broken in courage. One effect is manifest in our British
politics now. Each fresh election turns upon expenditure more evidently than the last, and
the promise to reduce taxation or lower the rates overrides more and more certainly any other
consideration. What are Empire or Education to men who feel themselves drifting helplessly
into debt? What chance has any constructive scheme with an electorate of men who are being
slowly submerged in an economic bog?

The process that has brought the middle class into these troubles is a complex one, but the
essential thing about it seems to be this, that there is a change of scale going on in most
human affairs, a substitution of big organizations for detached individual effort almost everywhere.
A hundred and fifty years ago or so the only very rich people in the community were a handful
of great landowners and a few bankers; the rest of the world's business was being done by small
prosperous independent men. The labourers were often very poor and wretched, ill clad, bootless,
badly housed and short of food, but there was nevertheless a great deal of middle-class comfort
and prosperity. The country was covered with flourishing farmers, every country town was a
little world in itself, with busy tradespeople and professional men; manufacturing was still
done mainly by small people employing a few hands, master and apprentice working together;
in every town you found a private school or so, an independent doctor and the like, doing well
in a mediocre, comfortable fashion. All the carrying trade was in the hands of small independent
carriers; the shipping was held by hundreds of small shipowners. And London itself was only
a larger country town. It was, in effect, a middle-class world ruled over by aristocrats; the
millstones had as yet scarcely stirred.

Then machinery came into the lives of men, and steam power, and there began that change of
scale which is going on still to-day, making an ever-widening separation of master and man
and an ever-enlarging organization of industry and social method. Its most striking manifestation
was at first the substitution of organized manufacture in factories for the half-domestic hand-industrialism
of the earlier period; the growth of the fortunes of some of the merchants and manufacturers
to dimensions comparable with the wealth of the great landowners, and the sinking of the rest
of their class towards the status of wage-earners. The development of joint-stock enterprise
arose concurrently with this to create a new sort of partnership capable of handling far greater
concerns than any single wealthy person, as wealth was measured by the old scale, could do.
There followed a great development of transit, culminating for a time in the coming of the
railways and steamships, which abolished the isolation of the old towns and brought men at
the remotest quarters of the earth into business competition. Big towns of the modern type,
with half-a-million inhabitants or more, grew up rapidly all over Europe and America. For the
European big towns are as modern as New York, and the East End and south side of London scarcely
older than Chicago. Shopkeeping, like manufactures, began to concentrate in large establishments,
and big wholesale distribution to replace individual buying and selling. As the need for public
education under the changing conditions of life grew more and more urgent, the individual enterprise
of this school-master and that gave place to the organized effort of such giant societies as
(in Britain) the old National School Society and the British School Society, and at last to
State education. And one after another the old prosperous middle-class callings fell under
the stress of the new development.

The process still goes on, and there can be little doubt of the ultimate issue. The old small
manufacturers are either ruined or driven into sweating and the slums; the old coaching innkeeper
and common carrier have been impoverished or altogether superseded by the railways and big
carrier companies; the once flourishing shopkeeper lives to-day on the mere remnants of the
trade that great distributing stores or the branches of great companies have left him. Tea
companies, provision-dealing companies, tobacconist companies, make the position of the old-established
private shop unstable and the chances of the new beginner hopeless. Railways and tramways take
the custom more and more effectually past the door of the small draper and outfitter to the
well-stocked establishments at the centre of things; telephone and telegraph assist that shopping
at the centre more and more. The small "middle-class" school-master finds himself beaten by
revived endowed schools and by new public endowments; the small doctor, the local dentist,
find Harley Street always nearer to them and practitioners in motor-cars from the great centres
playing havoc with their practices. And while the small men are more and more distressed, the
great organizations of trade, of production, of public science, continue to grow and coalesce,
until at last they grow into national or even world trusts, or into publicly-owned monopolies.
In America slaughtering and selling meat has grown into a trust, steel and iron are trustified,
mineral oil is all gathered into a few hands. All through the trades and professions and sciences
and all over the world the big eats up the small, the new enlarged scale replaces the old.

And this is equally true, though it is only now beginning to be recognized, of the securities
of that other section of the middle class, the section which lives upon invested money. There,
too, big eats little. There, too, the small man is more and more manifestly at the mercy of
the large organization. It was a pleasant illusion of the Victorian time that one put one's
hundred pounds or thousand pounds "into something," beside the rich man's tens of thousands,
and drew one's secure and satisfying dividends. The intelligent reader of Mr. Lawson's Frenzied
Finance or of the bankruptcy proceedings of Mr. Hooley realizes this idyll is scarcely true
to nature. Through the seas and shallows of investment flow great tides and depressions, on
which the big fortunes ride to harbour while the little accumulations, capsized and swamped,
quiver down to the bottom. It becomes more and more true that the small man saves his money
for the rich man's pocket. Only by drastic State intervention is a certain measure of safety
secured for insurance, and in America recently we have had the spectacle of the people's insurance-money
used as a till by the rich financiers.

And when the middle-class man turns in his desperation from the advance of the big competitor
who is consuming him, as a big codfish eats its little brother, to the State, he meets a tax-paper;
he sees as the State's most immediate aspect the rate-collector and inexorable demands. Water drum fan (see Fan, p. 977) are the oldest, has for centuries known S., which are
used in improved form in laboratories. 2) The moving Medium is air-shaped (almost exclusively
steam). Steam jet fan (see Fan, p. 978) found either for forcing the use of air (Körting underblast
fan in furnaces, Rührgebläse, which work by blowing air into the liquid re touching, air-pressure apparatus
for the absorption of gases by liquids, Regeneriergebläse for gas purifiers Carbon dioxide blower for sugar
factories, etc.), or used for sucking in air or other Gases (blow-pipe to the locomotives,
Körting chimney fans, fans for mines, Fans for drying apparatus, filter apparatus, paper machines,
Dampfstrahlgasexhaustoren for gas and tar distillery factories, exhauster for railway brakes,
etc.). Lnftstrahlgebläse be used in mines with compressed air and serve to fan site. Körting Ventilator
for railroad cars used by the movement of the carriage and the

367

Navicular lameness - refraction.

Wind brought forth flow of air. Such a fan (Fig. 3) is high on the car ceiling set and connected
to the interior of the car through a tube C. The air stream passes through A in the space B acts
here and sucking, so that air rises through C and the operating air in D into the open occurs.
A small slide which is mounted below the intake manifold, C, allows the regulation of ventilation
on the part of passengers. The whole upper part is E rotatable about the pin, and can therefore always
on the train, respectively. Direction Setting. Injectors (sd) use the condensation of the
removed from the boiler to be fed Operating vapor through the delivery water to give the latter
a velocity which is higher than the pressure in the boiler water equal speed. It is the possible
in that the steam, which in its low flow from the nozzle of the injector takes under the influence
of the boiler pressure, a much greater speed than a under the same pressure jet of water flowing
out, this in the condensation with the production water exchanges. Steam jet pump or ejector, which
for transporting water through a steam jet Serving effect in terms of the utilization of power, very unfavorable,
but may still be where it on the transfer of heat arrives, be quite beneficial, so for water
pumping in swimming pools, to fill the tender from wells of the locomotive, as a circulation devices Bleaching
and washing machines etc. For lifting of acids, bases, etc. produces acidic waters Körting
Steam jet pumps of china. Körting steam fire engines than house spraying, spraying factory etc.,
as appropriate, where boilers are available, it then only requires the opening of a steam valve, to enable
the spraying operation. Steam elevators sludge are similarly as the water jet mud elevators constructed.
Dampfstrahlanwärmeapparate act in the Way that a steam jet, which is introduced into the water
to be heated, the surrounding Water sucks, giving up its heat to it, and before it at a certain
speed is hertreibt so that more and more parts get water to the apparatus. Sprayers are used
to mist-like Distribution of fragrant liquids by means of an air jet (the so-called.
 He remains so because
he has not grasped the real nature of his problem, because he clings in the face of overwhelming
fate to the belief that in some way the wheels of change may be arrested and his present method
of living preserved.

I think, if he could shake himself free from that impossible conservatism he would realize
that his interests lie with the interests of the intelligent working-class man--that is to
say, in the direction of Socialism rather than in the direction of capitalistic competition;
that the best use he can make of such educational and social advantages as still remain for
him is to become the willing leader instead of the panic-fierce antagonist of the Socialist
movement. His place, I hold, is to forward the development of that State and municipal machinery
the Socialist foreshadows, and to secure for himself and his sons and daughters an adequate
position and voice in the administration. Instead of struggling to diminish that burthen of
public expenditure which educates and houses, conveys and protects him and his children, he
ought rather to increase it joyfully, while at the same time working manfully to transfer its
pressure to the broad shoulders of those very rich people who have hitherto evaded their legitimate
share of it. The other course is to continue his present policy of obstinate resistance to
the extension of public property and public services. In which case these things will necessarily
become that basis of monopolistic property on which the coming plutocracy will establish itself.
The middle-class man will be taxed and competed out of independence just the same, and he will
become a salaried officer just the same, but with a different sort of master and under different
social conditions according as one or other of these alternatives prevails.

Which is the better master--the democratic State or a "combine" of millionaires? Which will
give the best social atmosphere for one's children to breathe--a Plutocracy or a Socialism?
That is the real question to which the middle-class man should address himself.

No doubt to many minds a Plutocracy presents many attractions. In the works of Thomas Love
Peacock, and still more clearly in the works of Mr. W. H. Mallock, you will find an agreeable
rendering of that conception. The bulk of the people will be organized out of sight in a state
of industrious and productive congestion, and a wealthy, leisurely, and refined minority will
live in spacious homes, with excellent museums, libraries, and all the equipments of culture;
will go to town, concentrate in Paris, London, and Rome, and travel about the world. It is
to these large, luxurious, powerful lives that the idealist naturally turns. Their motor-cars,
their aeroplanes, their steam yachts will awaken terror and respect in every corner of the
globe. Their handsome doings will fill the papers. They will patronize the arts and literature,
while at the same time mellowing them by eliminating that too urgent insistence upon contemporary
fact which makes so much of what is done to-day harsh and displeasing. The middle-class tradition
will be continued by a class of stewards, tenants, managers, and foremen, secretaries and the
like, respected and respectful. The writer, the artist, will lead lives of comfortable dependence,
a link between class and class, the lowest of the rich man's guests, the highest of his servants.
As for the masses, they will be fed with a sort of careless vigour and considerable economy
from the Chicago stockyards, and by agricultural produce trusts, big breweries, fresh-water
companies, and the like; they will be organized industrially and carefully controlled. Their
spiritual needs will be provided for by churches endowed by the wealthy, their physical distresses
alleviated by the hope of getting charitable aid, their lives made bright and adventurous by
the crumbs of sport that fall from the rich man's table. They will crowd to see the motor-car
races, the aeroplane competitions. It will be a world rich in contrasts and not without its
gleam of pure adventure. Every bright young fellow of capacity will have the hope of catching
the eye of some powerful personage, of being advanced to some high position of trust, of even
ending his days as a partner, a subordinate assistant plutocrat. Or he may win a quite agreeable
position by literary or artistic merit. A pretty girl, a clever woman of the middle class would
have before her even more brilliant and romantic possibilities.

There can be no denying the promises of colour and eventfulness a Plutocracy holds out, and
though they do not attract me, I can quite understand their appeal to the more ductile and
appreciative mind of Mr. Mallock. But there are countervailing considerations. There is, it
is said, a tendency in Plutocracies either to become unprogressive, unenterprising and stagnantly
autocratic, or to develop states of stress and discontent, and so drift towards Cæsarism. The
latter was the fate of the Roman Republic, and may perhaps be the destiny of the budding young
Plutocracy of America. But the developing British Plutocracy, like the Carthaginian, will be
largely Semitic in blood, and like the Carthaginian may resist these insurgent tendencies.

So much for the Plutocratic possibility. If the middle-class man on any account does not like
that outlook, he can turn in the other direction; and then he will find fine promises indeed,
but much more uncertainty than towards Plutocracy. Plutocracies the world has seen before,
but a democratic civilization organized upon the lines laid down by modern Socialists would
be a new beginning in the world's history. It is not a thing that will come about by itself;
it will have to be the outcome of a sustained moral and intellectual effort in the community.
If there is not that effort, if things go on as they are going now, the coming of a Plutocracy
is inevitable. That effort, I am convinced, cannot be successfully made by the lower-class
man alone; from him, unaided and unguided, there is nothing to be expected but wild convulsive
attempts at social upheaval, which, whether they succeed (as the French Revolution did) or
fail (as did the insurrectionary outbreaks of the Republic in Rome), lead ultimately to a Napoleon
or a Cæsar. But our contemporary civilization is unprecedented in the fact that the whole population
now reads, and that intelligence and free discussion saturate the whole mass. Only time can
show what possibilities of understanding, leadership, and political action lie in our new generation
of the better-educated middle class. Will it presently begin to define a line for itself? Will
it remain disorganized and passive, or will it become intelligent and decisive between these
millstones of the organized property and the organizing State, between Plutocracy and Socialism,
whose opposition is the supreme social and political fact in the world at the present time?

§ 2.

Perhaps, also, it may be helpful here to insert a view of the contemporary possibilities of
Socialism from a rather different angle, a view that follows on to the matter of the previous
section, but appeals to a different section of the Middle Class. It is a quotation from the
Magazine of Commerce for September 1907, and leads to an explanation by the present writer.

    "The recent return of Mr. Grayson, a Socialist, as member of
    Parliament for the Colne Valley, has brought prominently
    before the public mind the question of Socialism. Mr. Pete
    Curran's success at Jarrow a month or so ago, and the large
    number of Labour members returned at the last General
    Election, caused more or less desultory comment on Socialism
    as a possible feature of practical politics in the remote
    future; but Mr. Grayson can certainly claim that his
    achievement at Colne Valley brought the question of Socialism
    in to the very forefront at one bound. It is difficult to
    ignore Socialism, to dismiss it as a mere fad and fancy of a
    few hare-brained enthusiasts, after Mr. Grayson's success. The
    verdict of Colne Valley may be the verdict of many another
    constituency where the so-called working-class electors are
    numerically predominant. When we consider that the manual
    worker represents the majority of the electorate of the
    country, this contingency does not appear to be so very
    remote, provided that the leaders of Socialism can organize
    their resources and canvass the working-men on a wide and
    carefully-planned scale. In this respect the Colne Valley
    result may very well give them the lead and stimulus they have
    been waiting for. It must be borne in mind, too, that the
    forward section of the Labour Party is avowedly Socialist in
    its sympathies, and a definite start may therefore be said to
    have been made towards capturing the machinery of Government
    in the Cause of Socialism.

    "How will Socialism affect the business world? This is a
    question which many thoughtful business men must have already
    put to themselves. For reply we must go to the leaders of
    Socialism, and discover what their policy actually is. The
    common impression that Socialism spells barefaced confiscation
    is too superficial to be seriously adduced as an argument
    against Socialism. The leaders of the Cause include some of
    the cleverest men of the day--men who have a more rational
    basis for their policy than that of simply robbing Peter to
    pay Paul. The suggestion that Socialism means a compulsory
    'share out' may be rightly dismissed as an idle scare. The
    most bitter opponent of Socialism must at least admit that
    there is a stronger argument to be met than that implied by
    the parrot-cry of 'spoliation.' Socialism has, at any rate, so
    far advanced as to be allowed the ordinary courtesies of
    debate. We may oppose it tooth and nail, but we must confront
    argument with argument and not with abuse.

    "Despite much excellent literature which is read widely by
    cultured people, very little is known by the general public of
    the principles which modern British Socialists have adopted as
    their guiding rules. Few business men care to study the
    subject. We have therefore addressed a letter to the chief
    leaders of the Cause, with the purpose of ascertaining the
    effect which Socialism would have on our business habits. Our
    object was to discover how far Socialism might disturb or
    improve business; whether it would altogether subvert present
    methods, or whether it could be applied without injury to
    these methods. To put the matter very plainly, we wished to
    learn whether we should carry on our business much as we do
    now, giving free play to individual effort and individual
    fortune-building.

    "The reply of Mr. Wells is as follows:--

        "'MY DEAR SIR,

        "'I wish very much I could reply at adequate length to
        your very admirably framed question. The constant stream
        of abuse and of almost imbecile misrepresentations of
        Socialism in the Press has no doubt served to distort
        the idea of our movement in the minds of a large
        proportion of busy men, and filled them with an
        unfounded dread of social insecurity. If it were
        possible to allay that by an epigrammatic programme,
        "Socialism in a Nutshell," so to speak, I would do my
        best. But the economic and trading system of a modern
        State is not only a vast and complex tangle of
        organizations, but at present an uncharted tangle, and
        necessarily the methods of transition from the limited
        individualism of our present condition to the
        scientifically-organized State, which is the Socialist
        ideal, must be gradual, tentative and various.

        "'To build up a body of social and economic science, to
        develop a class of trained administrators, to rearrange
        local government areas, to educate the whole community
        in the "sense of the State" are necessary parts of the
        Socialist scheme. You must try and induce your readers
        to recognize that when Socialism finds such supporters
        as Sir Oliver Lodge and Professor Karl Pearson, as
        William Morris (who revolutionized the furniture trade),
        as Granville Barker (who is revolutionizing the London
        stage), as Mr. George Cadbury and Mr. Fels (whose names
        are not unknown in the world of advertisement), as Mr.
        Allan (of the Allan Line), as Mr. George Bernard Shaw
        and Mrs. Shaw, Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Webb and Sir Sidney
        Olivier (the present Governor of Jamaica)--all of them
        fairly comfortable and independent people, practically
        acquainted with the business of investment and affairs
        generally and quite alive to the present relations of
        property to the civilized life--the suggestion that it
        is a raid of the ignorant "Have-nots" on the possessions
        of the wise and good "Haves" cannot be a very
        intelligent one nor addressed to very intelligent
        people. Essentially Socialism is the
        scientifically-organized State as distinguished from the
        haphazard, wasteful, blundering, child-sweating State of
        the eighteenth century. It is the systematization of
        present tendency. Necessarily its methods of transition
        will be progressively scientific and humane.

        "'So far as your specific questions go, I do not think
        there could possibly be anything in the nature of
        "compulsory profit-sharing" if a Socialist Government
        came into office. There is at present a compulsory
        profit-sharing in the form of an income-tax, but that
        tax does not appeal to the Socialist as a particularly
        scientific one. The advent of a strongly-Socialist
        Government would mean no immediate revolutionary changes
        at all. Also a systematic shifting of the burthen of
        taxation from enterprise to rent would begin. But
        nothing convulsive would occur.'"

        "'The means of transit and communication of the country
        (both internal and external), and especially the
        railways and canals (which are now rapidly falling into
        inefficiency through the exhaustion of their capital
        upon excessive dividends in the past), would probably be
        transferred from competitive private to organized public
        control--a transfer that would certainly be enormously
        stimulating to business generally. There would be no
        "robbery," the former shareholders would become stock or
        annuity holders. Nor would there be any financial
        convulsion due to the raising of the "enormous sum"
        necessary to effect this purchase. Disciplinary transfer, disciplinary action, which in the transfer of an official into another
office consists of the same rank, usually associated with a reduction of salary, which for example
according to the German Reich Civil Service Act, 31 March 1873, § 75, not over one fifth of
Service income should be. Instead of the reduction in service income and a Monetary penalties
to be imposed which does not exceed one third of the annual service income.

Criminal directory, see criminal records.

Criminal Enforcement, s. enforcement.

Criminal penalty, see Criminal Law, p. 362

Stragelkaffee, see Astragalus.

Jet, bird, s. Star.

Mechanical appliances, mechanical devices for lifting or creation of liquid, gaseous or grainy
and muddy bodies by means of a certain pressure, ie at a rate outflowing jet of liquid or kind of
air. The transmission of movement required in this case from moving by the pumped liquid is not,
as with the piston pump by direct pressure, but by the accumulated kinetic energy in the outflow
proceeds. To Figure 1 can explain the process. The cone-shaped piece out of the mouth (nozzle)
of the tube M A beam emitted tears the surrounding fluid, which through the tube B in the space D can
reach, with continued in the mouth (catch nozzle) of the tube C. The entering the tube C in the
mixing liquid present rate is by gradual expansion C converted to pressure, which overcome a certain
height of rise, or intrusion permitted in a pressurized chamber. In the transmission speed of
moving the motion on the liquid held significant power losses, which the Effectiveness of S.
unfavorable to influence, the greater the difference between the specific Weight of the two liquids
to be used and is, therefore, the p. strength the moving medium transferred best when the moving
body the same physical state is like that (so if, for example by a water jet, air through a steam
jet is moved). Nevertheless, many p. be used with different media conditions (the by far the most
common jet apparatus, the injector operates with steam to water), on the one hand, because the
page is extremely easy and cheap, require no special engine, have very small dimensions and because
of the absence of all moving parts or repair or Lubrication costs, also on the other hand, because the
use of any warming occurring steam the delivery fluid is often desirable (eg in swimming pools,
etc. for steam boilers). Because of these advantages, the S. in the last decades expanded use
anywhere found there, find a good use of existing operational force
considered only secondarily being necessary.

The spread of P. and adapting them to all possible special circumstances have earned in Germany,
particularly in Gebr Körting Hannover made.

Uses of the p. 1) The moving medium is tropfbarflüssig (pressurized water with natural or artificial
slope). - Water jet pump (see pump) are suitable for dewatering Cellars and trenches, for emptying
septic tanks, according to Körting as auxiliary equipment in mines etc. If mud Körting elevators
(2) to clean the well of quicksand, further work of dredged mud,
lifting of coal slurry, etc., part of the flowing through the pipe
b Operating at a sprayed water to stir up the mud, etc., whereupon
the same with a lot lifted water through a water jet pump and an effluent
at d c. Everywhere do you find that trade is
    helped by the effort of the community, by the force of the
    State, and I shall be very heartily pleased if those who hear
    me will think the matter over and decide for themselves
    whether or not we as business people--preeminently the
    business people of the world--are to maintain the old policy
    of leaving everything to private enterprise, or whether we are
    to act together for the good of all in this important matter
    of the national trade."

CHAPTER IX

SOME COMMON OBJECTIONS TO SOCIALISM

§ 1.

In the preceding eight chapters I have sought to give as plain and full an account of the great
generalizations of Socialism as I can, and to make it clear exactly what these generalizations
convey, and how far they go in this direction and that. Before we go on to a brief historical
and anticipatory account of the actual Socialist movement, it may be worth while to take up
and consider compactly the chief objections that are urged against the general propositions
of Socialism in popular discussion.

Now a very large proportion of these arise out of the commonest vice of the human mind, its
disposition to see everything as "yes" or "no," as "black" or "white," its impatience, its
incapacity for a fine discrimination of intermediate shades.[14] The queer old scholastic logic
still prevails remarkably in our modern world; you find Mr. Mallock, for example, going about
arranging his syllogisms, extracting his opponent's "self-contradictions," and disposing of
Socialism with stupendous self-satisfaction in all the magazines. He disposes of Socialism
quite in the spirit of the young mediæval scholar returning home to prove beyond dispute that
"my cat has ten tails" and, given a yard's start, that a tortoise can always keep ahead of
a running man. The essential fallacy is always to declare that either a thing is A or it is
not A; either a thing is green or it is not green; either a thing is heavy or it is not heavy.
Unthinking people, and some who ought to know better, fall into that trap. They dismiss from
their minds the fact that there is a tinge of green in nearly every object in the world, and
that there is no such thing as pure green, unless it be just one line or so in the long series
of the spectrum; they forget that the lightest thing has weight and that the heaviest thing
can be lifted. The rest of the process is simple and has no relation whatever to the realities
of life. They agree to some hard and fast impossible definition of Socialism, permit the exponent
to extract absurdities therefrom as a conjurer gets rabbits from a hat, and retire with a conviction
that on the whole it is well to have had this disturbing matter settled once for all.

   [14] See "Scepticism of the Instrument," the Appendix to A
        Modern Utopia. (Chapman & Hall.)

For example, the Anti-Socialist declares that Socialism "abolishes property." He makes believe
there is a hard absolute thing called "property" which must either be or not be, which is now,
and which will not be under Socialism. To any person with a philosophical education this is
a ridiculous mental process, but it seems perfectly rational to an untrained mind--and that
is the usual case with the Anti-Socialist. Having achieved this initial absurdity, he then
asks in a tone of bitter protest whether a man may not sleep in his own bed, and is he to do
nothing if he finds a coal-heaver already in possession when he retires? This is the method
of Mr. G. R. Sims, that delightful writer, who from altitudes of exhaustive misunderstanding
tells the working-man that under Socialism he will have--I forget his exact formula, but it
is a sort of refrain--no money of his own, no home of his own, no wife of his own, no hair
of his own! It is effective nonsense in its way--but nonsense nevertheless. In my preceding
chapters I hope I have made it clear that "property" even to-day is a very qualified and uncertain
thing, a natural vague instinct capable of perversion and morbid exaggeration and needing control,
and that Socialism seeks simply to give it a sharper, juster and rationally limited form in
relation to the common-weal.

Or again, the opponent has it that Socialism "abolishes the family"--and with it, of course,
"every sacred and tender association," etc., etc. To that also I have given a chapter.

I do not think much Anti-Socialism is dishonest in these matters. The tricks of deliberate
falsification, forgery and falsehood that discredit a few Conservative candidates and speakers
in the north of England and smirch the reputations of one or two London papers, are due to
a quite exceptional streak of baseness in what is on the whole a straightforward opposition
to Socialism. Anti-Socialism, as its name implies, is no alternative doctrine; it is a mental
resistance, not a mental force. For the most part one is dealing with sheer intellectual incapacity;
with people, muddle-headed perhaps, but quite well-meaning, who are really unable to grasp
the quantitative element in things. They think with a simple flat certitude that if, for example,
a doctor says quinine is good for a case it means that he wishes to put every ounce of quinine
that can be procured into his patient, to focus all the quinine in the world upon him; or that
if a woman says she likes dancing, that thereby she declares her intention to dance until she
drops. They are dear lumpish souls who like things "straightforward" as they say--all or nothing.
They think qualifications or any quantitative treatment "quibbling," to be loudly scorned,
bawled down and set aside.

In controversy the temptations for a hot and generous temperament, eager for victory, to misstate
and overstate the antagonist's position are enormous, and the sensible Socialist must allow
for them unless he is to find discussion intolerable. The reader of the preceding chapters
should know exactly how Socialism stands to the family relations, the things it urges, the
things it regards with impartiality or patient toleration, the things it leaves alone. The
preceding chapters merely summarize a literature that has been accessible for years. Yet it
is extraordinary how few antagonists of Socialism seem able even to approach these questions
in a rational manner. One admirably typical critic of a pamphlet in which I propounded exactly
the same opinions as are here set out in the third chapter, found great comfort in the expression
"brood mares." He took hold of my phrase, "State family," and ran wild with it. He declared
it to be my intention that women were no longer to be wives but "brood mares" for the State.
Nothing would convince him that this was a glaring untruth. His mind was essentially equestrian;
"human stud farm" was another of his expressions.[15] Ridicule and argument failed to touch
him; I believe he would have gone to the stake to justify his faith that Socialists want to
put woman in the Government haras. His thick-headedness had, indeed, a touch of the heroic.

   [15] What makes the expression particularly inappropriate in
        my case is the fact that in my Mankind in the Making there
        is a clearly-reasoned chapter (Ch. II.) which has never been
        answered, in which I discuss and, I think, conclusively
        dispose of Mr. Francis Galton's ideas of Eugenics and
        deliberate stirpiculture.

Then a certain Father Phelan of St. Louis, no doubt in a state of mental exaltation as honest
as it was indiscriminating, told the world through the columns of an American magazine that
I wanted to tear the babe from the mother's breast and thrust it into an "Institution." He
said worse things than that--but I set them aside as pulpit eloquence. Some readers, no doubt,
knew better and laughed, but many were quite sincerely shocked, and resolved after that to
give Socialism a very wide berth indeed. Honi soit qui mal y pense; the revolting ideas that
disgusted them were not mine, they came from some hot dark reservoir of evil thoughts that
years of chastity and discipline seem to have left intact in Father Phelan's soul.

The error in all these cases is the error of overstatement, of getting into a condition of
confused intellectual excitement, and because a critic declares your window curtains too blue,
saying, therefore, and usually with passion, that he wants the whole universe, sky and sea
included, painted bright orange. The inquirer into the question of Socialism will find that
an almost incurable disease of these controversies. Again and again he will meet with it. If
after that critic's little proposition about your window curtains he chances to say that on
the whole he thinks an orange sky would be unpleasant, the common practice is to accuse him
of not "sticking to his guns."

My friends, Mr. G. K. Chesterton and Mr. Max Beerbohm, those brilliant ornaments of our age,
when they chance to write about Socialism, confess this universal failing--albeit in a very
different quality and measure. They are not, it is true, distressed by that unwashed coal-heaver
who haunts the now private bed of the common Anti-Socialist, nor have they any horrid vision
of the fathers of the community being approved by a select committee of the County Council--no
doubt wrapped in horse-cloths and led out by their grooms--such as troubles the spurred and
quivering soul of that equestrian--I forget his name--the "brood-mare" gentleman who denounced
me in the Pall Mall Gazette; but their souls fly out in a passion of protest against the hints
of discipline and order the advancement of Socialism reveals. Mr. G. K. Chesterton mocks valiantly
and passionately, I know, against an oppressive and obstinately recurrent anticipation of himself
in Socialist hands, hair clipped, meals of a strictly hygienic description at regular hours,
a fine for laughing--not that he would want to laugh--and austere exercises in several of the
more metallic virtues daily. Mr. Max Beerbohm's conception is rather in the nature of a nightmare,
a hopeless, horrid, frozen flight from the pursuit of Mr. Sidney Webb and myself, both of us
short, inelegant men indeed, but for all that terribly resolute, indefatigable, incessant,
to capture him, to drag him off to a mechanical Utopia and there to take his thumb-mark and
his name, number him distinctly in indelible ink, dress him in an unbecoming uniform, and let
him loose (under inspection) in a world of neat round lakes of blue lime water and vistas of
white sanitary tiling....

The method of reasoning in all these cases is the same; it is to assume that whatever the Socialist
postulates as desirable is wanted without limit or qualification, to imagine whatever proposal
is chosen for the controversy is to be carried out by uncontrolled monomaniacs, and so to make
a picture of the Socialist dream. This picture is presented to the simple-minded person in
doubt with "This is Socialism. Surely! SURELY! you don't want this!"

And occasionally the poor, simple-minded person really is overcome by these imagined terrors.
He turns back to our dingy realities again, to the good old grimy world he knows, thanking
God beyond measure that he will never live to see the hateful day when one baby out of every
four ceases to die in our manufacturing towns, when lives of sordid care are banished altogether
from the earth, and when the "sense of humour" and the cult of Mark Tapley which flourishes
so among these things will be in danger of perishing from disuse....

But the reader sees now what Socialism is in its essentials, the tempered magnificence of the
constructive scheme to which it asks him to devote his life. It is a laborious, immense project
to make the world a world of social justice, of opportunity and full living, to abolish waste,
to abolish the lavish unpremeditated cruelty of our present social order. Do not let the wit
or perversity of the adversary or, what is often a far worse influence, the zeal and overstatement
of the headlong advocate, do not let the manifest personal deficiencies of this spokesman or
that, distract you from the living heart in Socialism, its broad generosity of conception,
its immense claim in kinship and direction upon your Good Will.

§ 2.

For the convenience of those readers who are in the position of inquirers, I had designed at
this point a section which was to contain a list of the chief objections to Socialism--other
than mere misrepresentations--which are current now-a-days. I had meant at first to answer
each one fully and gravely, to clear them all up exhaustively and finally before proceeding.
But I find now upon jotting them down, that they are for the most part already anticipated
by the preceding chapters, and so I will note them here, very compactly indeed, and make but
the briefest comment upon each.

There is first the assertion, which effectually bars a great number of people from further
inquiry into Socialist teaching, that Socialism is contrary to Christianity. I would urge that
this is the absolute inversion of the truth. Christianity involves, I am convinced, a practical
Socialism if it is honestly carried out. This is not only my conviction, but the reader, if
he is a Nonconformist, can find it set out at length by Dr. Clifford in a Fabian tract, Socialism
and the Teaching of Christ; and, if a Churchman, by the Rev. Stewart Headlam in another, Christian
Socialism. He will find a longer and fuller discussion of this question in the Rev. R. J. Campbell's
Christianity and Social Order. In the list of members of such a Socialist Society as the Fabian
Society will be found the names of clergy of the principal Christian denominations, excepting
only the Roman Catholic Church. It is said, indeed, that a good Catholic of the Roman Communion
cannot also be any sort of Socialist. Even this very general persuasion may not be correct.
I believe the papal prohibition was originally aimed entirely at a specific form of Socialism,
the Socialism of Marx, Engels and Bebel, which is, I must admit, unfortunately strongly anti-Christian
in tone, as is the Socialism of the British Social Democratic Federation to this day. It is
true that many leaders of the Socialist party have also been Secularists, and that they have
mingled their theological prejudices with their political work. This is the case not only in
Germany and America, but in Great Britain, where Mr. Robert Blatchford of the Clarion, for
example, has also carried on a campaign against doctrinal Christianity. But this association
of Secularism and Socialism is only the inevitable throwing together of two sets of ideas because
they have this in common, that they run counter to generally received opinions; there is no
other connection. Many prominent Secularists, like Charles Bradlaugh and Mr. J. M. Robertson,
are as emphatically anti-Socialist as the Pope. Secularists and Socialists get thrown together
and classed together just as early Christians and criminals and rebels against the Emperor
were no doubt thrown together in the Roman gaols. They had this much in common, that they were
in conflict with what most people considered to be right. It is a confusion that needs constant
explaining away. It is to me a most lamentable association of two entirely separate thought
processes, one constructive socially and the other destructive intellectually, and I have already,
in Chapter VI., § 4, done my best to disavow it.

Socialism is pure Materialism, it seeks only physical well-being,--just as much as nursing
lepers for pity and the love of God is pure materialism that seeks only physical well-being.

Socialism advocates Free Love. This objection I have also disposed of in Chapter VI., §§ 2 and 4.

Socialism renders love impossible, and reduces humanity to the condition of a stud farm. This,
too, has been already dealt with; see Chapter III., §§ 2 and 5, and Chapter VI., §§ 2, 3, and
4. These two objections generally occur together in the same anti-Socialist speech or tract.

Socialism would destroy parental responsibility. This absurd perversion is altogether disposed
of in Chapter VI., § 3. It is a direct inversion of current Socialist teaching.

§ 3.

Socialism would open the way to vast public corruption. This is flatly opposed to the experience
of America, where local administration has been as little Socialistic and as corrupt as anywhere
in the world. Obviously in order that a public official should be bribed, there must be some
wealthy person outside the system to bribe him and with an interest in bribing him. When you
have a weak administration with feeble powers and resources and strong unscrupulous private
corporations seeking to override the law and public welfare, the possibilities of bribing are
at the highest point. In a community given over to the pursuit of gain, powerful private enterprises
will resort to corruption to get and protract franchises, to evade penalties, to postpone expropriation,
and they will do it systematically and successfully. And even where there is partial public
enterprise and a competition among contractors, there will certainly be, at least, attempts
at corruption to get contracts. But where the whole process is in public hands, where can the
bribery creep in; who is going to find the money for the bribes, and why?

It is urged that in another direction there is likely to be a corruption of public life due
to the organized voting of the employés in this branch of the public service or that, seeking
some advantage for their own service. This is Lord Avebury's bogey.[16] Frankly, such voting
by services is highly probable. The tramway men or the milk-service men may think they are
getting too long hours or too low pay in comparison with the teachers or men on the ocean liners,
and the thing may affect elections. That is only human nature, and the point to bear in mind
is that this sort of thing goes on to-day, and goes on with a vigour out of all proportion
to the mild possibilities of a Socialist régime. The landowners of Great Britain, for example,
are organized in the most formidable manner against the general interests of the community,
and constantly subordinate the interests of the common-weal to their conception of justice
to their class; the big railways are equally potent, and so are the legal profession and the
brewers. But to-day these political interventions of great organized services athwart the path
of statesmanship are sustained by enormous financial resources. The State employés under Socialism
will be in the position of employing one another and paying one another; the teacher, for example,
will be educating the sons of the tramway men up to the requirements of the public paymaster,
and travelling in the trams to and from his work; there will be close mutual observation and
criticism, therefore, and a strong community of spirit, and that will put very definite limits
indeed upon the possibly evil influence of class and service interests in politics.

   [16] On Municipal and National Trading, by Lord Avebury.
        (Macmillan & Co., 1907.)

Socialism would destroy Incentive and Efficiency. This is dealt with in Chapter V. on the Spirit
of Gain and the Spirit of Service.

Socialism is economically unsound. The student of Socialism who studies--and every student
of Socialism should study very carefully--the literature directed against Socialism, will encounter
a number of rather confused and frequently very confusing arguments running upon "business"
or "economic" lines. In nearly all of these the root error is a misconception of the nature
and aim of Socialist claims. Sometimes this misconception is stated and manifest, often it
is subtly implied, and then it presents the greatest difficulties to the inexpert dialectician.
I find, for instance, Mr. W. H. Lever, in an article on Socialism and Business in the Magazine
of Commerce for October 1907, assuming that there will be no increase in the total wealth of
the community under Socialism, whereas, as my fourth chapter shows, Socialist proposals in
the matter of property aim directly at the cessation of the waste occasioned by competition
through the duplication and multiplication of material and organizations (see for example the
quotation from Elihu, p. 69), and at the removal of the obstructive claims of private ownership
(see p. 65) from the path of production. If Socialism does not increase the total wealth of
the community, Socialism is impossible.

Having made this assumption, however, Mr. Lever next assumes that all contemporary business
is productive of honest, needed commodities, and that its public utility and its profitable
conduct measure one another. But this ignores the manifest fact that success in business now-a-days
is far more often won by the mere salesmanship of mediocre or inferior or short-weight goods
than it is by producing exceptional value, and the Kentish railways, for example, are a standing
contrast of the conflict between public service and private profit-seeking. But having committed
himself to these two entirely unsound assumptions, it is easy for Mr. Lever to show that since
Socialism will give no more wealth, and since what he calls Labour, Capital and the Employer
(i.e. Labour, Plant and Management) are necessary to production and must be maintained out
of the total product, there will be little more, practically, for the Labourer under Socialist
conditions than under the existing régime. Going on further to assume that the Owner is always
enterprising and intelligent and public-spirited, and the State stupid (which is a quite unjustifiable
assumption), he shows their share may even be less. But the whole case for the Socialist proposals,
the student must bear in mind, rests upon the recognition that private management of our collective
concerns means chaotic and socially wasteful management--however efficient it may be in individual
cases for competitive purposes--and that the systematic abolition of the parasitic Owner from
our economic process implies the replacement of confusion by order and an immense increase
in the efficiency of that economic process. Socialism is economy. If the student of Socialism
does not bear this in mind, if once he allows the assumption to creep in that Socialism is
not so much a proposal to change, concentrate and organize the economic process, as one to
distribute the existing wealth of the country in some new manner, he will find there is a bad
case for Socialism.

It is an amusing and I think a fair comment on the arguments of Mr. Lever that a year or so
ago he was actually concerned--no doubt in the interests of the public as well as his own--in
organizing the production and distribution of soap so as to economize the waste and avoid the
public disservice due to the extreme competition of the soap dealers. He wanted to do in the
soap industry just exactly what Socialism wants to do in the case of all public services, that
is to say he wanted to give it the economic advantages of a Great Combine. In some directions
the saving to the soap interest would have been immense; all the vast expenditure upon newspaper
advertisements, for example, all the waste upon competing travellers would have been saved.
Whether the public would have benefited greatly or not is beside the present question; Mr.
Lever and other great soap proprietors would certainly have benefited enormously. They would
have benefited by working as a collective interest instead of as independent private owners.
But in this little experiment in what was really a sort of voluntary Socialism for particular
ends, Mr. Lever reckoned without another great system of private adventurers, the halfpenny
newspaper proprietors, who had hitherto been drawing large sums from soap advertisement, and
who had in fact been so far parasitic on the public soap supply. One group of these papers
at once began a campaign against the "Soap Trust," a campaign almost as noisy and untruthful
as the anti-Socialist campaign. They accused Mr. Lever of nearly every sort of cheating that
can be done by a soap seller, and anticipated every sort of oppression a private monopolist
can practise. In the end they paid unprecedented damages for libel, but they stopped Mr. Lever's
intelligent and desirable endeavours to replace the waste and disorder of our existing soap
supply by a simple and more efficient organization. Mr. Lever cannot have forgotten these facts;
they were surely in the back of his mind when he wrote his "Socialism and Business" paper,
and it is a curious instance of the unconscious limitations one may encounter in a mind of
exceptional ability that he could not bring them forward and apply them to the problem in hand.

Socialism is unbusinesslike. See Chapter VIII., §§ 2 and 3.

§ 4.

Socialism would destroy freedom. This is a more considerable difficulty. To begin with it may
be necessary to remind the reader that absolute freedom is an impossibility. He asks what freedom
is there to-day for the vast majority of mankind? They are free to do nothing but work for
a bare subsistence all their lives, they may not go freely about the earth even, but are prosecuted
for trespassing upon the health-giving breast of our universal mother. Consider the clerks
and girls who hurry to their work of a morning across Brooklyn Bridge in New York, or Hungerford
Bridge in London; go and see them, study their faces. They are free, with a freedom Socialism
would destroy. Consider the poor painted girls who pursue bread with nameless indignities through
our streets at night. They are free by the current standard. And the poor half-starved wretches
struggling with the impossible stint of oakum in a casual ward, they too are free! The nimble
footman is free, the crushed porter between the trucks is free, the woman in the mill, the
child in the mine. Ask them! They will tell you how free they are. They have happened to choose
these ways of living--that is all. No doubt the piquancy of the life attracts them in many
such cases.

Let us be frank; a form of Socialism might conceivably exist without much freedom, with hardly
more freedom than that of a British worker to-day. A State Socialism tyrannized over by officials
who might be almost as bad at times as uncontrolled small employers, is so far possible that
in Germany it is practically half-existent now. A bureaucratic Socialism might conceivably
be a state of affairs scarcely less detestable than our own. I will not deny there is a clear
necessity of certain addenda to the wider formulæ of Socialism if we are to be safeguarded
effectually from the official. We need free speech, free discussion, free publication, as essentials
for a wholesome Socialist State. How they may be maintained I shall discuss in a later chapter.
But these admissions do not justify the present system. Socialism, though it failed to give
us freedom, would not destroy anything that we have in this way. We want freedom now, and we
have it not. We speak of freedom of speech, but to-day, in innumerable positions, Socialist
employés who declared their opinions openly would be dismissed. Then again in religious questions
there is an immense amount of intolerance and suppression of social and religious discussion
to-day, especially in our English villages. As for freedom of action, most of us, from fourteen
to the grave, are chased from even the leisure to require freedom by the necessity of earning
a living....

Socialism, as I have stated it thus far, and as it is commonly stated, would give economic
liberty to men and women alike, it would save them from the cruel urgency of need, and so far
it would enormously enlarge freedom, but it does not guarantee them political or intellectual
liberty. That I frankly admit, and accept as one of the incompletenesses of contemporary Socialism.
I conceive, therefore, as I shall explain at length in a later chapter, that it is necessary
to supplement such Socialism as is currently received by certain new propositions. But to admit
that Socialism does not guarantee freedom, is not to admit that Socialism will destroy it.
It is possible, given certain conditions, for men to be nearly absolutely free in speech, in
movement, in conduct; enormously free, that is, as compared with our present conditions, in
a Socialist State established upon the two great propositions I have formulated in Chapters
III. and IV. So that the statement that Socialism will destroy freedom is a baseless one of
no value as a general argument against the Socialist idea.

§ 5.

Socialism would reduce life to one monotonous dead level! This in a world in which the majority
of people live in cheap cottages, villa residences and tenement houses, read halfpenny newspapers
and wear ready-made clothes!

Socialism would destroy Art, Invention and Literature. I do not know why this objection is
made, unless it be that the objectors suppose that artists will not create, inventors will
not think, and no one write or sing except to please a wealthy patron. Without his opulent
smile, where would they be? Well, do not let us be ungrateful; the arts owe much to patronage.
Go to Venice, go to Florence, and you will find a glorious harvest of pictures and architecture,
sown and reaped by a mercantile plutocracy. But then in Rome, in Athens, you will find an equal
accumulation made under very different conditions. Reach a certain phase of civilization, a
certain leisure and wealth, and art will out, however the wealth may be distributed. In certain
sumptuous directions art flourishes now, and would certainly flourish less in a Socialist State;
in the gear of ostentatious luxury, in private furniture of all sorts, in palace building,
in the exquisite confections of costly feminine adornment, in the luxurious binding of books,
in the cooking of larks, in the distinguished portraiture of undistinguished persons, in the
various refinements of prostitution, in the subtle accommodations of mystic theology, in jewellery.
It is quite conceivable that in such departments Socialism will discourage and limit æsthetic
and intellectual effort. But no mercantile plutocracy could ever have produced a Gothic cathedral,
a folk-lore, a gracious natural type of cottage or beautiful clothing for the common people,
and no mercantile plutocracy will ever tolerate a literature of power. If the coming of Socialism
destroys arts, it will also create arts; the architecture of private palaces will give place
to an architecture of beautiful common homes, cottages and colleges, and to a splendid development
of public buildings, the Sargents of Socialism will paint famous people instead of millionaires'
wives, poetry and popular romantic literature will revive. For my own part I have no doubt
where the balance of advantage lies.

It seems reasonable to look to the literary and artistic people themselves for a little guidance
in this matter. Well, we had in the nineteenth century an absolute revolt of artists against
Individualism. The proportion of open and declared Socialists among the great writers, artists,
playwrights, critics, of the Victorian period was out of all proportion to the number of Socialists
in the general population. Wilde in his Soul of Man under Socialism, Ruskin in many volumes
of imperishable prose, Morris in all his later life, have witnessed to the unending protest
of the artistic spirit against the rule of gain. Some of these writers are not, perhaps, to
be regarded as orthodox Socialists in the modern sense, but their disgust with and contempt
for Individualist competition is entirely in the vein of our teaching.

Even this Individualistic country of ours, after the shameful shock of the Great Exhibition
of 1851, decided that it could no longer leave art to private enterprise, and organized that
systematic government Art Teaching that has, in spite of its many defects, revolutionized the
æsthetic quality of this country. And so far as research and invention go, one may very reasonably
appeal to such an authority on the other side, as the late Mr. Beit, of Wernher Beit & Co.
The outcome of his experience as an individualist financier was to convince him that the only
way to raise the standard of technical science in England, and therewith of economic enterprise,
was by the endowment of public teaching, and the huge "London Charlottenburg" rises--out of
his conviction. Even Messrs. Rockefeller and Carnegie admit the failure of Individualism in
this matter by pouring money into public universities and public libraries. All these heads
of the commercial process confess by such acts just exactly what this objection of the inexperienced
denies, that is to say the power of the State to develop art, invention and knowledge; the
necessity that this duty should be done if not by, then at any rate through, the State.

Socialism may very seriously change the direction of intellectual and æsthetic endeavour; that
one admits. But there is no reason whatever for supposing it will not, and there are countless
reasons for supposing that it will, enormously increase the opportunities and encouragements
for æsthetic and intellectual endeavour.

§ 6.

Socialism would arrest the survival of the Fittest. Here is an objection from quite a new quarter.
It is the stock objection of the science student. Hitherto we have considered religious and
æsthetic difficulties, but this is the difficulty of the mind that realizes clearly the nature
of the biological process, the secular change in every species under the influence of its environment,
and is most concerned with that. Species, it is said, change--and the student of the elements
of science is too apt to conclude that this change is always ascent in the scale of being--by
the killing off of the individuals out of harmony with the circumstances under which the species
is living. This is not quite true. The truer statement is that species change because, allowing
for chance and individual exceptions, only those individuals survive to reproduce themselves
who are fairly well adjusted to the conditions of life; so that in each generation there is
only a small proportion of births out of harmony with these conditions. This sounds very like
the previous proposition, but it differs in this that the accent is shifted from the "killing"
to the suppression of births, that is the really important fact. In any case, then, the believer
in evolution holds that the qualities encouraged by the environment increase in the species
and the qualities discouraged diminish. The qualities that have survival value are not always
what we human beings consider admirable--that is a consideration many science students fail
to grasp. The remarkable habits of all the degenerating crustacea, for example, the appetite
of the vulture, the unpleasing personality of the common hyæna, all that less charming side
of Mother Nature that her scandalized children may read of in Cobbold's Human Parasites, are
the result of survival under the pressure of environment, just as much as the human eye or
the wing of an eagle. Let the objector therefore ask himself what sort of "fittest" are surviving
now.

The plain answer is that under our present conditions the Breeding-Getter wins, the man who
can hold and keep and reproduce his kind. People with the instinct of owning stronger than
any other instinct float out upon the top of our seething mass, and flourish there. Aggressive,
intensely acquisitive, reproductive people--the ignoble sort of Jew is the very type of it--are
the people who will prevail in a social system based on private property and mercantile competition.
No creative power, no nobility, no courage can battle against them. And below--in the slums
and factories, what will be going on? The survival of a race of stunted toilers, with great
resisting power to infection, contagion and fatigue, omnivorous as rats....

Don't imagine that the high infantile death rate of our manufacturing centres spares the fine
big children. It does not. Here is the effectual answer to that.

    "The object of the inquiry was to discover the causes of
    variation in the physical condition of children within the
    limits of this single school. Each of the 405 boys was
    carefully weighed and measured without boots, a note was made
    of the condition of the teeth, and a general estimate of the
    personal cleanliness and sufficiency of clothing as a basis
    for determining the home conditions of neglect or otherwise
    from external evidence. The teacher of each class added an
    estimate of mental capacity." (Here follow tabular
    arrangements of results, and height and weight charts.)

    "... It may be noted in the heights and weights for each age
    that the curve is not a continuous line of growth, but that at
    some ages it springs nearer to, and at others sinks further
    from, the normal. The greatest effect upon the life capital of
    the population is produced by the infantile mortality, which
    in some years actually kills off during the first year one in
    five of all children born; the question naturally arises what
    is its effect upon the survivors--do the weakly ones get
    killed off and only the strong muddle through, or does the
    adverse environment which slaughters one in five have a
    maiming effect upon those left?... When the infantile
    mortality for the parish in which the school is situate was
    charted above the physique curve, an absolute correspondence
    is to be observed. The children born in a year when infantile
    mortality is low show an increased physique, rising nearest to
    the normal in the extraordinary good year 1892; and those born
    in the years of high mortality show a decreased physique....
    It appears certain, therefore, that in years of high infantile
    mortality the conditions, to which one in five or six of the
    children born are sacrificed, have a maiming effect upon the
    other four or five."

The fine big children are born in periods of low infantile mortality, that is the essential point.

So that anyhow, since the fittest under present conditions is manifestly the ratlike, the survival
of the fittest that is going on now is one that it is highly desirable to stop as soon as possible,
and so far Socialism will arrest the survival of the fittest. But that does not mean that it
will stop the development of the species altogether. It will merely shift the incident of selection
and rejection to a new set of qualities. I think I have already hinted (Chapter VI., § 2) that
a State that undertakes to sustain all the children born into it will do its best to secure
good births. That implies a distinct bar to the marriage and reproduction of the halt and the
blind, the bearers of transmissible diseases and the like. And women being economically independent
will have a far freer choice in wedlock than they have now. Now they must in practice marry
men who can more or less keep them, they must subordinate every other consideration to that.
Under Socialism they will certainly look less to a man's means and acquisitive gifts, and more
to the finer qualities of his personality. They will prefer prominent men, able men, fine,
vigorous and attractive persons. There will, indeed, be far more freedom of choice on either
side than under the sordid conditions of the present time. I submit that such a free choice
is far more likely to produce a secular increase in the beauty, the intellectual and physical
activity and the capacity of the race, than our present haphazard mercenariness.

The science student will be interested to read in this connection The Ethic of Free Thought
(A. & C. Black, 1888), Socialism in Theory and Practice (1884), and The Chances of Death, and
other Studies in Evolution (Arnold, 1897), by Karl Pearson. Professor Pearson is not in all
respects to be taken as an authoritative exponent of Modern Socialism, and he is associated
with no Socialist organization, but his treatment of the biological aspect is that of a specialist
and a master.

§ 7.

Socialism is against Human Nature. This objection I have left until last because, firstly,
it is absolutely true, and secondly, it leads naturally to the newer ideas that have already
peeped out once or twice in my earlier chapters and which will now ride up to a predominance
in what follows, and particularly the idea that an educational process and a moral discipline
are not only a necessary part, but the most fundamental part of any complete Socialist scheme.
Socialism is against Human Nature. That is true, and it is equally true of everything else;
capitalism is against human nature, competition is against human nature, cruelty, kindness,
religion and doubt, monogamy, polygamy, celibacy, decency, indecency, piety and sin are all
against human nature. The present system in particular is against human nature, or what is
the policeman for, the soldier, the debt-collector, the judge, the hangman? What means the
glass along my neighbour's wall? Human nature is against human nature. The Dead
horses looked like long rows of small hills. We saw legs, sandals, arms, Coats and heads, which
was stuck on the helmet by the chin scales and more like Hinrollten balls. The thorn bushes
hung hair. Elephants with guts hanging out, the towers were still on his back, gasping in large
pools of blood. Everywhere you stepped on slippery Articles and, although it had not rained in big mud
puddles.

The corpse maze covered the mountain slopes from top to bottom. The survivors are touched as
little as the dead. herumhockend In large and small groups, they
looked at each other bewildered and said not a word.

Beyond the wide prairie, the lake of Hippo-Diarrhyt flashed in the setting sun. Right it rose
enggedrängte white houses over a walled garden.

Furthermore, expanded endless sea. The chin in hand, the barbarians thought with a sigh of their
homeland. A gray cloud of dust fell down.

The morning wind began to blow. The people sighed with relief. It was cool. It was observed
like the vermin the growing cold dead left and ran on the warm sand. At high stone blocks sat motionless
ravens and peered after the dying.

When night had fallen, were yellow-haired dogs, bastards, as they generally are the Heeren chasing
habit, sneaking up to the barbarians. First she licked the coagulated Blood from the still warm
limbs stumps, but soon they began to devour the dead by they first
anfraßen bellies.

The refugees appeared again, one by one, like shadows. The women dared back, because there still
were any left over, especially Libya, despite the terrible Blood bath that the Numidian had caused
among them.

Some were thawing and set fire to it in order to use them as torches. Andre held crossed lances.
They put the dead on it and carried it aside.

They were in long lines open mouth on the back, their spears beside them, or in clusters about
each other. If you wanted to find a missing, they often had a whole body of hill ransack. It
went to them with the torch slowly across the face. All the horrible Weapons they had taught
the different kinds of wounds. Some hung greenish skin flap from the end. Others were hacked
to pieces or crushed down to the bone marrow, from the blue Würgetode or the tusks of elephants
lengthwise slit. Although almost all were found at the same time the death, showed differences
in the decomposition of corpses. The northerners looked leaden and
were swollen, while the sinewy Africans smoked appeared and already
dried up.

The mercenaries were recognized at the tattoo their hands. The old soldiers of Antiochus bore
a hawk baked.

Who in Egypt had served, a monkey head. Those who stood in the pay of Asian princes, an ax, a
Pomegranate or a hammer. The mercenaries of the Greek republics had the image of a Castle or the
name of an engraved rulers. Some had their arms up and down with these multiple characters covered,
who mixed with old scars and new wounds.

For the dead Latin descent, the Samnites, Etruscans, Campanian and animal breeding, built there
are four large stake.

The Greeks dug pits with the tip of their swords. The Spartans took their red Coats and wrapped
into the dead. The Athenians they laid with the face of the rising
Sun.

The Cantabrians buried under their pile of stones. The bent Nasamonen them together and they seized
with straps of leather, and buried Garamantes them on the sea shore, so the floods they constantly wetted.
The Latins were inconsolable, that they could not collect the ashes in urns. The nomads missed the hot
sand, in where their bodies were mummies, and the Celts their usual
three rough ashlar blocks, the rainy skies of their homeland and the
view of a bay full of small islands.

Loud wailing was heard, then followed a long silence. This was done to the souls to return to force.
After regular intervals the noise began again and again.

They apologized to the dead, that they could not honor, as the customs demanded it, for without
the religious ceremonies, they had endless periods through under all sorts of fates and transformations
wander. They called. She was asked about their wishes. Andre overwhelmed them with abuse because
they had to be defeated.

The glow of the great stake was the bloodless faces, here and there broken armor refused to look even
paler. Tears called forth new tears. The sobs became violent, the recognition scenes and the
last wild embrace. Women threw the mouth to mouth, face to face on
the dead.

        She had to drift away with blows if one zuschaufelte the graves.

They blackened her cheeks, cut off the hair, tore own wounds and let the blood flow into the graves.
Or you can put in sections, Images of the wounds, the beloved dead mangled. Cries drowned by
the sound of cymbals. Some tore off their amulets and spat at her. Dying woman writhing in bloody
mud and bit with rage in their mutilated fists.

Forty-three Samnites, an entire "holy Spring, "murdered each other like gladiators. Soon it gebrach
of wood for the pyre. The flames extinguished. All the graves were full. Tired of crying, exhausted
and weak, slept the living next to their dead comrades one, the one with the desire to stay
alive to do, and it was in fear and distress, others to prefer not to re-awaken.

* * * * *

appeared at dawn near the overlapping barbarian soldiers who marched past, their helmets on
the tips of their lances. They greeted their companions in arms, and asked her if they had nothing
to order in their homeland. Andre troops came closer. It was recognized old companions.

The Suffet had offered to all prisoners to join his army. Some had courageously refused, and
he was determined to feed them nor deliver the Grand Council, he had sent home with orders not
to fight against Carthage.

The But the fear which made torture submissive before, they had distributed the weapons of the
vanquished, and now she showed her old comrades to entice them to return to the less waste than in
a fit of exuberance and curiosity.

First, they told of the good treatment by the marshal. The rebels stopped them and envied them,
though they despise the cowards. But at the first words of the Those allegations fell into
a rage. They showed them from a distance their own swords, their armor and they called on to
abuse, they get it again. The rebels attacked for stones. Since fleeing the scornful. Soon you
could only see the spearheads of the ridge.

Now the barbarians took a pain that they depressed over the humiliation of their Defeat. She realizes
the futility of their courage. Grudgingly they stared to himself.

Allen had the same thought. They rushed in a wild rage caught on the
Carthaginians.

The Soldiers of the Suffet had they not been discovered by chance, and when he left the battlefield,
they were still in the deep pit.

They put on a level place flat on the floor. Items formed a circle around them. Then allowed to enter
the women, every thirty to forty at a time. They knew that to them not a lot of time granted, and
they were undecided and first excited from one to other, but then she bent over the poor wretches
and beat them with all his might.

The names of men crying, they tore them with his fingernails, the skin and pricked them from their
hairpins eyes. Then came the men and tortured the unfortunate of the feet, they abhieben them
at the ankles, to the forehead, from which she coronary Pieces cut out, which she wrapped around
her head. In particular, the eaters of unclean Dining in inventive cruelty. They lit the wounds
by dust, vinegar and Potsherds hineinpreßten. Behind them were already other again and waited.
The blood flowed in torrents, and the torturers revel in it like
wine in their presses.

Matho was still sitting on the floor, at the very spot where he sat
down after the battle , had propped his elbows on his knees, his temples
in his hands.

He saw nothing, heard thought nothing, nothing.

The howls of joy that uttered the crowd, he looked up.

Before him, on a pole, fluttered a piece of canvas, the end of the earth touched. Among them were
baskets, blankets and a lion's skin in colorful mess.

He recognized his tent, and his eyes bored into the ground, Hamilcar's daughter as if there would
be sunk into the ground.

The torn canvas blowing in the wind, and sometimes touched the blowing scraps of his face. Then
he noticed a red mark, apparently the imprint of a hand. It was Naravas' hand, the Symbol of
their former covenant.

Matho leaped up. He took a glowing piece of wood lay on the floor,
and threw it contemptuously into the remains of his tent.

Then he met with the Top of his armored boots scattered around all sorts of objects lying in
the flames. It Nothing should be left!

Suddenly on Spendius without that one might have guessed, from which direction.

The former slave, had one of his legs eingeschient into two fragments
of a lance.

He limped miserably and let out moans.

"Eliminate the yet," said Matho at him.

"I know that you are a hero!" The injustice of fate had it so afflicted that he no longer
had the strength to stand on human to be indignant.

Spendius beckoned him and led him to a cave in the hillside where the hidden and Zarzas Autarit
held.

They were both like the slave escaped, although one in spite of his thirst for blood, the other his
Bravery. Who would have because they thought that the betrayal of Naravas, the fire in the camp of the Libyans,
the loss of Zaimph, Hamilcar sudden attack, and especially his skillful maneuvers have guessed,
by whom he had lured down the mercenaries in the boiler to them about
the cluster to run?

Spendius confessed his cowardice and a non insisted that he was a leg was shattered.

Finally began, the three leaders and Schalischim a consultation, what to do now.

Hamilcar moved them the way to Carthage. They were between his army and the area the Naravas
included. The Tyrian cities would doubtless join the winner. This forced one of the mercenaries
against the coast in order to destroy it together.

There was no way to avoid a fight. Consequently, they had to continue it to the utmost. But how
should the need for an endless war, discouraged her from fresh Bleeding wounds make people understand?

"I
take it," cried Spendius.

Two hours later a man came from the direction of Hippo-Diarrhyt in
rapid course of the mountain up.

High in his hand he waved a chalkboard.

Then he cried aloud, surrounded him immediately the barbarians.

The panel came from the Greek mercenaries in Sardinia. They recommended their comrades in Africa,
Gisgo and the other prisoners to guard well.

A businessman from Samos, a certain Hipponax, who had come from Carthage, had informed them that a coup
in preparation was to liberate them. We therefore advise the barbarians to take precautions.
The Republic is powerful.

This was a list of Spendius, but they succeeded at first not to the extent that he hoped had. The prospect
of new terror threat aroused only, rather than to stir up anger.

They recalled thrown the threat that Hamilcar recently midst of them, and expected something
unexpected, Horrible. The night passed in sheer fear.

Many even threw away their weapons, to the Suffet agree mildly, when he appears.

The next day, the third guard came a second messenger, still breathless and with even Dust covered
everything. The Greeks pulled him from a papyrus scroll with Phoenician
characters hand.

It is urged the mercenaries, not to lose heart. The brave men of Tunis would come to them with high
gain settings.

Spendius read the letter on the spot three times in succession. Then he obtained Cappadocia two
carry on their shoulders and leave him anywhere. Seven hours He held talks. He reminded the
soldiers of the promises of the Great Council, the Africans to the
atrocities of the governors, all the barbarians at the dishonesty
of Carthage.

The mildness the Suffet was a bait to catch them. Who would voluntarily, which would as a slave
sold, defeated in battle but executed under torture. You speak of escape? On what Way, then?
No root, they would be marching through.

However, they could continue to Freedom of the war, revenge and gain wealth! Long they took care
not to wait because already they hurry across Libya and Tunisia to help. He held up the rolled
papyrus.

"Look! Read! Here are their promises! I do not lie! "

Dogs with blood-stained black snouts swarmed around. The midday sun beat down on the bare heads.
Anti-odor rose from the insufficiently buried corpses. Some sticking halfway out of the ground
up.

Spendius she called to witness to the truth of his Words to. Then he held out his fists against Hamilcar.

He
knew that Matho was watching him, so he wore to conceal his cowardice, an enthusiasm to show,
in which he talked really into it gradually. He dedicated himself to the gods and heaped curses
on Carthage. The execution of the prisoners had nothing further.

Why do they and even this useless pack always carry around? "No way! One has them make an end!
We know what they're up! One can destroy us! No pity! Who is a real man, the race, what he can,
and cut his might go on it! "

As was seized again at the prisoners. Several still rattled.

They were given the Rest by providing them with the heel in his mouth or was it contrasted with
spear heads.

       

Gisgo them remembered. He saw nowhere. Restlessness and confusion was rife. Man wanted to be convinced
of his death, and also participate in it. Finally found him three Samnite shepherds fifteen
paces from the spot where had stood Mathos tent. You recognized him by his long beard and called the
others.

He lay on his back, his arms pressed to the body and closed her legs, like a dead man, to be
buried.

But his lean sides rose and fell and his still wide open Eyes staring
out of the dead white face in horrible way ahead constantly.

The
Barbarians looked at him first with astonishment. Since he lived in
the pit, had he was almost forgotten. Now, under the spell of old
memories, so they stayed at a distance stand by him, not daring to
lay hands on him. 

But standing back grumbled and pushed forward
until a Garamantes walked through the crowd. He swung a sickle. Everyone
understood his intention. The faces were red, and full Shame about
their own cowardice roared all: "Yes! yes! "

The man with the crooked
iron approached Gisgo. He grabbed the head of the old man, put it
on his knee and cut it off with rapid cuts. Gisgos head fell to the
ground. Two large Blood flows drilled a hole in the dust. Zarzas pounced
on the severed head light-footed and ran it as a leopard to the camp
of the Carthaginians.

When he had two third of the mountain slope
behind him, he pulled the beard from his head Gisgos Breast circled
out, with his arm repeatedly through the air and then let fly his
head. He described a wide arc and disappeared behind the Punic entrenchment.
Soon rose above the poles of the wall two crossed flags, the usual
sign that one requesting the return of the dead.

Since four specially
selected gigantic heralds trumpets also covered with large and explained
Spoken by the iron tubes that henceforth between the Carthaginians
and the barbarians do not trust faith, nor pity, nor were gods, that
they reject in advance all negotiations and would return any negotiator
with cut hands.

Immediately afterwards they sent Spendius to Hippo-Diarrhyt
to get food. The Tyrian city sent the same evening. They ate greedily.
Then, when all the strengthened had hastily snatched up the mercenaries
up the remnants of their baggage and their broken weapons. The women
put in the middle and without mercy against the wounded, no use, to
them, They marched at a brisk pace towards the sea, like a pack of
wolves honing.

They were going to Hippo Diarrhyt, determined to take
it because they needed a City.

* * * * *

As Hamilcar perceived the
march, he was very angry, in spite of the proud feeling that he this
flight, in and of themselves prepared. He would attack it on the spot
with fresh troops like. Another such day and the war was over! But
he pulled out even longer, so the barbarians would come back strengthened.
Nor could the Tyrian cities to join them. His clemency towards the
vanquished had been of no use. He decided, from now on relentlessly
be. That same evening he sent the Grand Council a dromedary, which
with the bracelets of the fallen was loaded, and ordered under the
most terrible threats, his gain to send.

He was generally lost long
ago. An enormous work was done throughout the whole
Victorian period by Socialists and Socialistic writers, in criticizing and modifying the average
circle of ideas, in bringing conceptions that had once seemed weird, outcast and altogether
fantastic, more and more within the range of acceptable practicality.

The first early Socialisms were most various and eccentric upon the question of government
and control. They had no essential political teaching. Many, but by no means all, were inspired
by the democratic idealism of the first French Revolution. They believed in a mystical something
that was wiser and better than any individual,--the People, the Common Man. But that was by
no means the case with all of them. The Noyes community was a sort of Theocratic autocracy;
the Saint Simonian tendency was aristocratic. The English Socialism that in the middle Victorian
period developed partly out of the suggestions of Owen's beginnings and partly as an independent
fresh outpouring of the struggling Good Will in man, that English Socialism that found a voice
in Ruskin and in Maurice and Kingsley and the Christian Socialists, was certainly not democratic.
It kept much of what was best in the "public spirit" of contemporary English life, and it implied
if it did not postulate a "governing class." Benevolent and even generous in conception, its
exponents betray all too often the ties of social habituations, the limited circle of ideas
of English upper and upper middle-class life, easy and cultivated, well served and distinctly,
most unmistakably, authoritative.

While the experimental Utopian Socialisms gave a sort of variegated and conflicting pattern
of a reorganized industrialism and (incidentally to that) a new heaven and earth, the benevolent
Socialism, Socialistic Liberalism and Socialistic philanthropy of the middle Victorian period,
really went very little further in effect than a projected amelioration and moralization of
the relations of rich and poor. It needed the impact of an entirely new type of mind before
Socialism began to perceive its own significance as an ordered scheme for the entire reconstruction
of the world, began to realize the gigantic breadth of its implications.

CHAPTER XI

REVOLUTIONARY SOCIALISM

§ 1.

It was Karl Marx who brought the second great influx of suggestion into the intellectual process
of Socialism. Before his time there does not seem to have been any clear view of economic relationships
as having laws of development, as having interactions that began and went on and led towards
new things. But Marx had vision. He had--as Darwin and the evolutionists had, as most men with
a scientific training, and many educated men without that advantage now have--a sense of secular
change. Instead of being content with the accepted picture of the world as a scene where men
went on producing and distributing wealth and growing rich or poor, it might be for endless
ages, he made an appeal to history and historical analogies, and for the first time viewed
our age of individualist industrial development, not as a possibly permanent condition of humanity,
but as something unstable and in motion, as an economic process, that is to say, with a beginning,
a middle, and as he saw it, an almost inevitable end.

The last thing men contrive to discern in every question is the familiar obvious, and it came
as a great and shattering discovery to the economic and sociological thought of the latter
half of the nineteenth century that there was going on not simply a production but an immense
concentration of wealth, a differentiation of a special wealthy class of landholder and capitalist,
a diminution of small property owners and the development of a great and growing class of landless,
nearly propertyless men, the proletariat. Marx showed--he showed so clearly that to-day it
is recognized by every intelligent man--that given a continuance of our industrial and commercial
system, of uncontrolled gain seeking, that is, given a continuance of our present spirit and
ideas of property, there must necessarily come a time when the owner and the proletarian will
stand face to face, with nothing--if we except a middle class of educated professionals dependent
on the wealthy, who are after all no more than the upper stratum of the proletariat--to mask
or mitigate their opposition. The
workers from the purple red-colored arms factories had as executioner. The sailors wore green
caps, coral necklaces, fishermen, hunters on the shoulder and a network the workers in the palace
of Megara white or black garments, leather trousers and caps straw, felt or canvas, depending
on their service and various industries.

Behind urged a mob dressed in rags. These vagrants were living without shelter Employment. They
slept at night in the gardens and fed on the leftovers. It was both human decay, which flourished
in the shadow of the palace. Hamilcar tolerated it, more out of caution because of clever contemptuous
pity. They had all the Sign of their joy flowers tucked behind their ears. Many of them had
the mighty never seen before.

Guards, who wore her hair like sphinxes, threw themselves on all these people and beat them
with their big sticks to the right and left around.

This was done to the sight of their master repel curious slaves. Hamilcar should not be hampered
by the amount and its smell will not be harassed.
Now, all threw themselves flat on the floor and shouted, "favorite
of the gods, flourish your house" By! those in the cypress trees lying
on the ground swarm crossed the steward Abdalonim in his tall white
hat on to Hamilcar, a censer in his hand.
The history of Political Economy is indeed one of the most striking instances of the mischief
wrought by intellectual minds devoid of vision, in the entire history of human thought. Special
definition, technicality, are the stigmata of second-rate intellectual men; they cannot work
with the universal tool, they cannot appeal to the general mind. They must abstract and separate.
On such men fell the giant's robe of Adam Smith, and they wore it after their manner. Their
arid atmospheres are intolerant of clouds, an outline that is not harsh is abominable to them.
They criticized their master's vagueness and must needs mend it. They sought to give political
economy a precision and conviction such a subject will not stand. They took such words as "value,"
an incurably and necessarily vague word, "rent," the name of the specific relation of landlord
and tenant, and "capital," and sought to define them with relentless exactness and use them
with inevitable effect. So doing they departed more and more from reality. They developed a
literature more abundant, more difficult and less real than all the exercises of the schoolmen
put together. To use common words in uncommon meanings is to sow a jungle of misunderstanding.
It was only to be expected that the bulk of this economic literature resolves upon analysis
into a ponderous, intricate, often astonishingly able and foolish wrangling about terminology.

Now in the early Victorian period in which Marx planned his theorizing, political economy ruled
the educated world. Ruskin had still to attack the primary assumptions of that tyrannous and
dogmatic edifice. The duller sort of educated people talked of the "immutable laws of political
economy" in the blankest ignorance that the basis of everything in this so-called science was
a plastic human convention. Humane impulses were checked, creative effort tried and condemned
by these mystical formulæ. Political economy traded on the splendid achievements of physics
and chemistry and pretended to an inexorable authority. Only a man of supreme intelligence
and power, a man resolved to give his lifetime to the task, could afford in those days to combat
the pretensions of the political economist; to deny that his categories presented scientific
truth, and to cast that jargon aside. As for Marx, he saw fit to accept the verbal instruments
of his time (albeit he bent them not a little in use), to accommodate himself to their spirit
and to split and re-classify and re-define them at his need. So that he has become already
difficult to follow, and his more specialized exponents among Socialists use terms that arouse
no echoes in the contemporary mind. Everyone was making plans for the future. Some wanted to be prostitutes, Slaves
and estates now. Andre wanted to bury their treasures or in the seaborne trade again Game set.
But this failure to the heated minds. It may
crop up in the inquiries of some intelligent mechanic seeking knowledge among the obsolescent
accumulations of a public library, or it may for a moment be touched upon by some veteran teacher.
But the time when social and economic science had to choose between debatable and inexpressive
technicalities on the one hand or the stigma of empiricism on the other, is altogether past.

