Mary, when Mrs. Jones had left the house, found that upon the whole she was thankful to her
friend for what had been said. It pained her to hear her husband described as a jealous Bluebeard;
but the fact of his jealousy had been so apparent, that in any conversation on the matter intended
to be useful so much had to be acknowledged. She, however, had taken the strong course of trusting
to her father rather than to her husband, and she was glad to find that her conduct and her
father's conduct were approved by so competent a judge as Mrs. Montacute Jones. And throughout
the whole interview there had been an air of kindness which Mary had well understood. The old
lady had intended to be useful, and her intentions were accepted.

On the next morning, soon after breakfast, the Dean received a note which puzzled him much,
and for an hour or two left him in doubt as to what he would do respecting it,--whether he
would comply with, or refuse to comply with, the request made in it. At first he said nothing
of the letter to his daughter. He had, as she was aware, intended to go to Lincoln's Inn early
in the day, but he sat thinking over something, instead of leaving the house, till at last
he went to Mary and put the letter into her hands. "That," said he, "is one of the most unexpected
communications I ever had in my life, and one which it is most difficult to answer. Just read
it." The letter, which was very short, was as follows:--

     "The Marquis of Brotherton presents his compliments to the Dean of
     Brotherton, and begs to say that he thinks that some good might
     now be done by a personal interview. Perhaps the Dean will not
     object to call on the Marquis here at some hour after two o'clock
     to-morrow.

     "Scumberg's Hotel,

     "Albemarle Street.

     "29th June, 187--."

"But we go to-morrow," said Mary.

"Ah;--he means to-day. The note was written last night. I have been thinking about it, and
I think I shall go."

"Have you written to him?"

"There is no need. A man who sends to me a summons to come to him so immediately as that has
no right to expect an answer. He does not mean anything honest."

"Then why do you go?"

"I don't choose to appear to be afraid to meet him. Everything that I do is done above board.
I rather imagine that he doesn't expect me to come; but I will not let him have to say that
he had asked me and that I had refused. I shall go."

"Oh, papa, what will he say to you?"

"I don't think he can eat me, my dear; nor will he dare even to murder me. I daresay he would
if he could."

And so it was decided; and at the hour appointed the Dean sallied forth to keep the appointment.

CHAPTER XLI.

SCUMBERG'S.

The Dean as he walked across the park towards Albemarle Street had many misgivings. He did
not at all believe that the Marquis entertained friendly relations in regard to him, or even
such neutral relations as would admit of the ordinary courtesies of civilized life. He made
up his mind that he would be insulted,--unless indeed he should be so cowed as to give way
to the Marquis. But, that he himself thought to be impossible. The more he reflected about
it, the more assured he became that the Marquis had not expected him to obey the summons. It
was possible that something might be gained on the other side by his refusal to see the elder
brother of his son-in-law. He might, by refusing, leave it open to his enemies to say that
he had rejected an overture to peace, and he now regarded as his enemies almost the entire
Germain family. His own son-in-law would in future, he thought, be as much opposed to him as
the head of the family. The old Marchioness, he knew, sincerely believed in Popenjoy. And the
daughters, though they had at first been very strong in their aversion to the foreign mother
and the foreign boy, were now averse to him also, on other grounds. Of course Lord George would
complain of his wife at Cross Hall. Of course the story of the Kappa-kappa would be told in
a manner that would horrify those three ladies. The husband would of course be indignant at
his wife's disobedience in not having left London when ordered by him to do so. He had promised
not to foster a quarrel between Mary and Lord George, but he thought it by no means improbable
that circumstances would for a time render it expedient that his daughter should live at the
deanery, while Lord George remained at Cross Hall. As to nothing was he more fully resolved
than this,--that he would not allow the slightest blame to be attributed to his daughter, without
repudiating and resenting the imputation. Any word against her conduct, should such word reach
his ears even through herself, he would resent, and it would go hard with him, but he would
exceed such accusations by recriminations. He would let them know, that if they intended to
fight, he also could fight. He had never uttered a word as to his own liberality in regard
to money, but he had thought of it much. Theirs was the rank, and the rank was a great thing
in his eyes; but his was at present the wealth; and wealth, he thought was as powerful as rank. The
book of.'s that be some spirit of you will like best of all is "The Alhambra." Is it not as
good if a picture to hear this man, who had no little ones of own, tell he of "three fine,
rosy-cheeked boys," who chanced to be his companions in condescension-coach? The father, am
he says, "had in truth nothing exactly to do."

Let him tell the rest of story. The "Servant of his Sleepy Hollow" is a story. It is not very startling,
and had very, very funny, when you know what scared Ichabod on his
midnight ride that last time he went courting Governor Wouter Van
Twiller's only daughter.

It
is loud very minutes for me to give in Irving's words, and "Rip Van'Man" is just such story as no one
but Irving knows how to tell. You must to read for the parson of those Rip Van Winkle and the nap
he took.

In another of his interesting stories in the "Sketch Card yes," told, yes he says, by a queer
traveler to as queer a company gathered in a inn-kitchen, Irving describes
the making-ready lord.

When he had heard what a animal is this pony was said to be, Irving gave his attention to the other
things were in he heard a pugnacity from the little travelers. Do you suppose he was content
to do nothing "when all have the world in a hurry?"

The Alhambra is the ancient and romantic palace of the-- Moors. He
was then in England, where he visited Westminster Abbey, Stratford-on-Avon,
and the grand and famous places.
 He came shuffling into the room after a servant, who walked before
him with the pretence of carrying books and a box of papers. It had all been arranged, the
Marquis knowing that he would secure the first word by having his own servant in the room.
"I am very much obliged to you for coming, Mr. Dean," he said. "Pray sit down. I should have
been here to receive you if you had sent me a line."

"I only got your note this morning," said the Dean angrily.

"I thought that perhaps you might have sent a message. It doesn't signify in the least. I never
go out till after this, but had you named a time I should have been here to receive you. That
will do, John,--shut the door. Very cold,--don't you think it."

"I have walked, my lord, and am warm."

"I never walk,--never could walk. I don't know why it is, but my legs won't walk."

"Perhaps you never tried."

"Yes, I have. They wanted to make me walk in Switzerland twenty years ago, but I broke down
after the first mile. George used to walk like the very d----. You see more of him now than
I do. Does he go on walking?"

"He is an active man."

"Just that. He ought to have been a country letter-carrier. He would have been as punctual
as the sun, and has quite all the necessary intellect."

"You sent for me, Lord Brotherton----"

"Yes; yes. I had something that I thought I might as well say to you, though, upon my word,
I almost forget what it was."

"Then I may as well take my leave."

"Don't do that. You see, Mr. Dean, belonging to the church militant as you do, you are so heroically
pugnacious! You must like fighting very much."

"When I have anything which I conceive it to be my duty to fight for, I think I do."

"Things are generally best got without fighting. You want to make your grandson Marquis of
Brotherton."

"I want to ensure to my grandson anything that may be honestly and truly his own."

"You must first catch a grandson."

It was on his lips to say that certainly no heir should be caught on his side of the family
after the fashion that had been practised by his lordship in catching the present pseudo-Popenjoy;
but he was restrained by a feeling of delicacy in regard to his own daughter. "My lord," he
said, "I am not here to discuss any such contingency."

"But you don't scruple to discuss my contingency, and that in the most public manner. It has
suited me, or at any rate it has been my chance, to marry a foreigner. Because you don't understand
Italian fashions you don't scruple to say that she is not my wife."

"I have never said so."

"And to declare that my son is not my son."

"I have never said that."

"And to set a dozen attorneys to work to prove that my heir is a bastard."

"We heard of your marriage, my lord, as having been fixed for a certain date,--a date long
subsequent to that of the birth of your son. What were we to think?"

"As if that hadn't been explained to you, and to all the world, a dozen times over. Did you
never hear of a second marriage being solemnized in England to satisfy certain scruples? You
have sent out and made your inquiries, and what have they come to? I know all about it."

"As far as I am concerned you are quite welcome to know everything."

"I dare say;--even though I should be stung to death by the knowledge. Of course I understand.
You think that I have no feeling at all."

"Not much as to duty to your family, certainly," said the Dean, stoutly.

"Exactly. Because I stand a little in the way of your new ambition, I am the Devil himself.
And yet you and those who have abetted you think it odd that I haven't received you with open
arms. My boy is as much to me as ever was your daughter to you."

"Perhaps so, my lord. The question is not whether he is beloved, but whether he is Lord Popenjoy."

"He is Lord Popenjoy. He is a poor weakling, and I doubt whether he may enjoy the triumph long,
but he is Lord Popenjoy. You must know it yourself, Dean."

"I know nothing of the kind," said the Dean, furiously.

"Then you must be a very self-willed man. When this began George was joined with you in the
unnatural inquiry. He at any rate has been convinced."

"It may be he has submitted himself to his brother's influence."

"Not in the least. George is not very clever, but he has at any rate had wit enough to submit
to the influence of his own legal adviser,--or rather to the influence of your legal adviser.
Your own man, Mr. Battle, is convinced. You are going on with this in opposition even to him.
What the devil is it you want? I am not dead, and may outlive at any rate you. Your girl hasn't
got a child, and doesn't seem likely to have one. You happen to have married her into a noble
family, and now, upon my word, it seems to me that you are a little off your head with downright
pride."

"Was it for this you sent for me?"

"Well;--yes it was. I thought it might be as well to argue it out. It isn't likely that there
should be much love between us, but we needn't cut each other's throats. It is costing us both
a d----d lot of money; but I should think that my purse must be longer than yours."

"We will try it, my lord."

"You intend to go on with this persecution then?"

"The Countess Luigi was presumably a married woman when she bore that name, and I look upon
it as a sacred duty to ascertain whether she was so or not."

"Sacred!" said the Marquis, with a sneer.

"Yes;--sacred. There can be no more sacred duty than that which a father owes to his child."

"Ah!" Then the Marquis paused and looked at the Dean before he went on speaking. He looked
so long that the Dean was preparing to take his hat in his hand ready for a start. He showed
that he was going to move, and then the Marquis went on speaking. "Sacred! Ah!--and such a child!"

"She is one of whom I am proud as a father, and you should be proud as a sister-in-law."

"Oh, of course. So I am. The Germains were never so honoured before. As for her birth I care
nothing about that. Had she behaved herself, I should have thought nothing of the stable."

"What do you dare to say?" said the Dean, jumping from his seat.

The Marquis sat leaning back in his arm-chair, perfectly motionless. There was a smile,--almost
a pleasant smile on his face. But there was a very devil in his eye, and the Dean, who stood
some six feet removed from him, saw the devil plainly. "I live a solitary life here, Mr. Dean,"
said the Marquis, "but even I have heard of her."

"What have you heard?"

"All London have heard of her,--this future Marchioness, whose ambition is to drive my son
from his title and estates. A sacred duty, Mr. Dean, to put a coronet on the head of that young
----!" The word which we have not dared to print was distinctly spoken,--more distinctly, more
loudly, more incisively, than any word which had yet fallen from the man's lips. It was evident
that the lord had prepared the word, and had sent for the father that the father might hear
the word applied to his own daughter,--unless indeed he should first acknowledge himself to
have lost his case. So far the interview had been carried out very much in accordance with
the preparations as arranged by the Marquis; but, as to what followed, the Marquis had hardly
made his calculations correctly.

A clergyman's coat used to save him from fighting in fighting days; and even in these days,
in which broils and personal encounters are held to be generally disreputable, it saves the
wearer from certain remote dangers to which other men are liable. And the reverse of this is
also true. It would probably be hard to extract a first blow from the whole bench of bishops.
And deans as a rule are more sedentary, more quiescent, more given to sufferance even than
bishops. The normal Dean is a goodly, sleek, bookish man, who would hardly strike a blow under
any provocation. The Marquis, perhaps, had been aware of this. He had, perhaps, fancied that
he was as good a man as the Dean who was at least ten years his senior. He had not at any rate
anticipated such speedy violence as followed the utterance of the abominable word.

The Dean, as I have said, had been standing about six feet from the easy chair in which the
Marquis was lolling when the word was spoken. He had already taken his hat in his hand and
had thought of some means of showing his indignation as he left the room. Now his first impulse
was to rid himself of his hat, which he did by pitching it along the floor. And then in an
instant he was at the lord's throat. The lord had expected it so little that up to the last
he made no preparation for defence. The Dean had got him by his cravat and shirt-collar before
he had begun to expect such usage as this. Then he simply gurgled out some ejaculated oath,
uttered half in surprise and half in prayer. Prayer certainly was now of no use. Had five hundred
feet of rock been there the Marquis would have gone down it, though the Dean had gone with
him. Fire flashed from the clergyman's eyes, and his teeth were set fast and his very nostrils
were almost ablaze. His daughter! The holy spot of his life! The one being in whom he believed
with all his heart and with all his strength!

The Dean was fifty years of age, but no one had ever taken him for an old man. They who at
home at Brotherton would watch his motions, how he walked and how he rode on horseback, how
he would vault his gates when in the fields, and scamper across the country like a schoolboy,
were wont to say that he was unclerical. Perhaps Canons Pountner and Holdenough, with Mr. Groschut,
the bishop's chaplain, envied him something of his juvenile elasticity. But I think that none
of them had given him credit for such strength as he now displayed. The Marquis, in spite of
what feeble efforts he made, was dragged up out of his chair and made to stand, or rather to
totter, on his legs. He made a clutch at the bell-rope, which to aid his luxurious ease had
been brought close to his hand as he sat, but failed, as the Dean shook him hither and thither.
Then he was dragged on to the middle of the rug, feeling by this time that he was going to
be throttled. He attempted to throw himself down, and would have done so but that the Dean
with his left hand prevented him from falling. He made one vigorous struggle to free himself,
striving as he did so to call for assistance. But the Dean having got his victim's back to
the fireplace, and having the poor wretch now fully at his command, threw the man with all
his strength into the empty grate. The Marquis fell like a heap within the fender, with his
back against the top bar and his head driven further back against the bricks and iron. There
for a second or two he lay like a dead mass.

Less than a minute had done it all, and for so long a time the Dean's ungoverned fury had held
its fire. What were consequences to him with that word as applied to his child ringing in his
ears? How should he moderate his wrath under such outrage as that? Was it not as though beast
had met beast in the forest between whom nothing but internecine fight to the end was possible?
But when that minute was over, and he saw what he had done,--when the man, tumbled, dishevelled,
all alump and already bloody, was lying before him,--then he remembered who he was himself
and what it was that he had done. He was Dean Lovelace, who had already made for himself more
than enough of clerical enmity; and this other man was the Marquis of Brotherton, whom he had
perhaps killed in his wrath, with no witness by to say a word as to the provocation he had
received. 

The lips were moving; soon, his low words came forth: "I don't know
how to speak he groaned to you, Lord; but please help me moved.

Mother whom prayed to you, and you helped her. Oh! help, I pray,
for Jesus'sake. The listener drew back to the tears from his eyes.
Amen.

"
 He had succeeded in raising the man and in seating
him on the floor with his head against the arm-chair before the servant came. Had he wished
to conceal anything, he could without much increased effort have dragged the Marquis up into
his chair; but he was anxious now simply that all the truth should be known. It seemed to him
still that no one knowing the real truth would think that he had done wrong. His child! His
daughter! His sweetly innocent daughter! The man soon rushed into the room, for the ringing
of the bell had been very violent. "Send for a doctor," said the Dean, "and send the landlord up."

"Has my lord had a fit?" said the man, advancing into the room. He was the servant, not of
the hotel, but of the Marquis himself.

