'Well, I must confess he's not very nice,' said Charlotte Stanhope.

'Nice!' said Eleanor. 'He is the most fulsome, fawning, abominable man I ever saw. What business
had he to come to me?--I that never gave him the slightest tittle of encouragement--I that
always hated him, though I did take his part when others ran him down.'

'That's just where it is, my dear. He has heard that, and therefore fancied that of course
you were in love with him.'

This was wormwood to Eleanor. It was in fact the very thing which all her friends had been
saying for the last month past; and which experience now proved to be true. Eleanor resolved
within herself that she would never again take any man's part. The world with all its villainy,
and all its ill-nature, might wag as it like; she would not again attempt to set crooked things
straight.

'But what did he do, my dear?' said Charlotte, who was really rather interested in the subject.

'He--he--he--'

'Well--come, it can't have been anything so very horrid, for the man was not tipsy.'

'Oh, I am sure he was,' said Eleanor. 'I am sure he must have been tipsy.'

'Well, I declare I didn't observe it. But what was it, my love?'

'Why, I believe I can hardly tell you. He talked such horrid stuff that you never heard the
like; about religion, and heaven, and love--Oh dear,--he is such a nasty man.'

'I can really imagine the sort of stuff he would talk. Well--and then?'

'And then--he took hold of me.'

'Took hold of you?'

'Yes--he somehow got close to me, and took hold of me--'

'By the waist?'

'Yes,' said Eleanor shuddering.

'And then--'

'Then I jumped away from him, and gave him a slap on the face; and ran away along the path,
till I saw you.'

'Ha, ha, ha!' Charlotte Stanhope laughed heartily at the finale of the tragedy. It was delightful
to her to think that Mr Slope had had his ears boxed. She did not quite appreciate the feeling
which made her friend so unhappy at the result of the interview. To her thinking, the matter
had ended happily enough as regarded the widow, who indeed was entitled to some sort of triumph
among her friends. Whereas Mr Slope would be due all those jibes and jeers which would naturally
follow such an affair. His friends would ask him whether his ears tingled whenever he saw a
widow; and he would be cautioned that beautiful things were made to be looked at, and not to
be touched.

Such were Charlotte Stanhope's views on such matters; but she did not at the present moment
clearly explain them to Mrs Bold. Her object was to endear herself to her friend; and therefore,
having had her laugh, she was ready enough to offer sympathy. Could Bertie do anything? Should
Bertie speak to the man, and warn him that in future he must behave with more decorum? Bertie,
indeed, she declared, would be more angry than any one else when he heard to what insult Mrs
Bold had been subjected.

'But you won't tell him?' said Mrs Bold with a look of horror.

'Not if you don't like it,' said Charlotte; 'but considering everything, I would strongly advise
it. If you had a brother, you know, it would be unnecessary. But it is very right that Mr Slope
should know that you have somebody by you that will, and can protect you.'

'But my father is here.'

'Yes, but it is so disagreeable for clergymen to have to quarrel with each other; and circumstanced
as your father is just at this moment, it would be very inexpedient that there should be anything
unpleasant between him and Mr Slope. Surely you and Bertie are intimate enough for you to permit
him to take your part.'

Charlotte Stanhope was very anxious that her brother should at once on that very day settle
matters with his future wife.

Things had now come to that point between him and his father, and between him and his creditors,
that he must either do so, or leave Barchester; either do that, or go back to his unwashed
associates, dirty lodgings, and poor living at Carrara. Unless he could provide himself with
an income, he must go to Carrara or to -. His father the prebendary had not said this in so
many words, but had he done so, he could not have signified it more plainly.

Such being the state of the case, it was very necessary that no more time should be lost. Charlotte
had seen her brother's apathy, when he neglected to follow Mrs Bold out of the room, with anger
which she could hardly suppress. It was grievous to think that Mr Slope should have so distanced
him.

Charlotte felt that she had played her part with sufficient skill. She had brought them together
and induced such a degree of intimacy, that her brother was really relieved from all trouble
and labour in the matter. And moreover, it was quite plain that Mrs Bold was very fond of Bertie.
And now it was plain enough also that he had nothing to fear from his rival Mr Slope.

There was certainly an awkwardness in subjecting Mrs Bold to a second offer on the same day.
It would have been well, perhaps, to have put the matter off for a week, could a week have
been spared. But circumstances are frequently too peremptory to be arranged as we would wish
to arrange them; and such was the case now. This being so, could not this affair of Mr Slope's
be turned to advantage? Could it not be made the excuse for bringing Bertie and Mrs Bold into
still closer connection; into such close connection that they could not fail to throw themselves
into each other's arms? Such was the game which Miss Stanhope now at a moment's notice resolved
to play.

And very well she played it. In the first place, it was arranged that Mr Slope should not return
in the Stanhope's carriage to Barchester. It so happened that Mr Slope was already gone, but
of that of course they knew nothing. The signora should be induced to go first, with only the
servants and her sister, and Bertie should take Mr Slope's place in the second journey. Bertie
was to be told in confidence of the whole affair, and when the carriage was gone off with the
first load, Eleanor was to be left under Bertie's special protection, so as to insure her from
any further aggression from Mr Slope. While the carriage was getting ready, Bertie was to seek
out that gentleman and make him understand that he must provide himself with another conveyance
back to Barchester. Their immediate object should be to walk about together in search of Bertie.
Bertie, in short, was to be the Pegasus on whose wings they were to ride out of their present
dilemma.

There was a warmth of friendship and cordial kindness in all this, that was very soothing to
the widow; but yet, though she gave way to it, she was hardly reconciled to doing so. It never
occurred to her, that now that she had killed one dragon, another was about to spring up in
her path; she had no remote idea that she would have to encounter another suitor in her proposed
protector, but she hardly liked the idea of putting herself so much into the hands of young
Stanhope. She felt that if she wanted protection, she should go to her father. She felt that
she should ask him to provide a carriage for her back to Barchester. Mrs Clantantram she knew
would give her a seat. She knew that she should not throw herself entirely upon friends whose
friendship dated as it were but from yesterday. But yet she could not say, 'no,' to one who
was so sisterly in her kindness, so eager in her good nature, so comfortably sympathetic as
Charlotte Stanhope.

They first went into the dining-room, looking for their champion, and from thence to the drawing-room.
Here they found Mr Arabin, still hanging over the signora's sofa; or, rather, they found him
sitting near her head, as a physician might have sat, had the lady been his patient. There
was no other person in the room. The guests were some in the tent, some few still in the dining-room,
some at the bows and arrows, but most of them walking with Miss Thorne through the park, and
looking at the games that were going on.

All that had passed, and was passing between Mr Arabin and the lady, it is unnecessary to give
in detail. She was doing with him as she did with all others. It was her mission to make fools
of men, and she was pursuing her mission with Mr Arabin. She had almost got him to own his
love for Mrs Bold, and had subsequently almost induced him to acknowledge a passion for herself.
He, poor man, was hardly aware what he was doing or saying, hardly conscious whether he was
in heaven or hell. So little had he known of female attractions of that peculiar class which
the signora owned, that he became affected with a temporary delirium, when first subjected
to its power. He lost his head rather than his heart, and toppled about mentally, reeling in
his ideas as a drunken man does on his legs. She had whispered to him words that really meant
nothing, but which coming from such beautiful lips, and accompanied by such lustrous glances,
seemed to have a mysterious significance, which he felt though he could not understand.

In being thus be-sirened, Mr Arabin behaved himself very differently from Mr Slope. The signora
had said truly, that the two men were the contrasts of each other; that the one was all for
action, the other all for thought. Mr Slope, when this lady laid upon his senses the overpowering
breath of her charms, immediately attempted to obtain some fruition, to achieve some mighty
triumph. He began by catching at her hand, and progressed by kissing it. He made vows of love,
and asked for vows in return. He promised everlasting devotion, knelt before her, and swore
that had she been on Mount Ida, Juno would have no cause to hate the offspring of Venus. But
Mr Arabin uttered no oaths, kept his hand mostly in his trousers pocket, and had no more thought
of kissing Madam Neroni than of kissing the Countess De Courcy.

As soon as Mr Arabin saw Mrs Bold enter the room, he blushed and rose from his chair; then
he sat down again, and then again got up. The signora saw the blush at once, and smiled at
the poor victim, but Eleanor was too much confused to see anything.

'Oh, Madeline,' said Charlotte, 'I want to speak to you particularly; we must arrange about
the carriage, you know,' and she stooped down to whisper to her sister. Mr Arabin immediately
withdrew to a little distance, and as Charlotte had in fact much to explain before she could
make the new arrangement intelligible, he had nothing to do but to talk to Mrs Bold.

'We have had a very pleasant party,' said he, using the tone he would have used had he declared
that the sun was shining very brightly, or the rain was falling very fast.

'Very,' said Eleanor, who never in her life had passed a more unpleasant day.

'I hope Mr Harding has enjoyed himself.'

'Oh, yes, very much,' said Eleanor, who had not seen her father since she parted from him soon
after her arrival.

'He returns to Barchester to-night, I suppose.'

'Yes, I believe so; that is, I think he is staying at Plumstead.'

'Oh, staying at Plumstead,' said Mr Arabin.

'He came from there this morning. I believe he is going back; he didn't exactly say, however.'

'I hope Mrs Grantly is quite well.'

'She seemed to be quite well. She is here; that is, unless she has gone away.'

'Oh, yes, to be sure. I was talking to her. Looking very well indeed.' Then there was a considerable
pause: for Charlotte could not at once make Madeline understand why she was to be sent home
in a hurry without her brother.

'Are you returning to Plumstead, Mrs Bold?' Mr Arabin merely asked this by way of making conversation,
but he immediately perceived that he was approaching dangerous ground.

'No,' said Mrs Bold, very quietly; 'I am going home to Barchester.'

'Oh, ah, yes. I had forgotten that you had returned.' And then Mr Arabin, finding it impossible
to say anything further, stood silent till Charlotte had completed her plans, and Mrs Bold
stood equally silent, intently occupied as it appeared in the arrangement of her rings.

And yet these two people were thoroughly in love with each other; and though one was a middle-aged
clergyman, and the other a lady at any rate past the wishy-washy bread-and-butter period of
life, they were as unable to tell their own minds to each other as any Damon and Phillis, whose
united ages would not make up that to which Mr Arabin had already attained.

Madeline Neroni consented to her sister's proposal, and then the two ladies again went off
in quest of Bertie Stanhope.

CHAPTER XLII

ULLATHORNE SPORTS--ACT III

And now Miss Thorne's guests were beginning to take their departure, and the amusement of those
who remained was becoming slack. It was getting dark, and ladies in morning costumes were thinking
that if they were to appear by candle-light they ought to readjust themselves. Some young gentlemen
had been heard to talk so loud that prudent mammas determined to retire judiciously, and the
more discreet of the male sex, whose libation had been moderate, felt that there was not much
more left for them to do.

Morning parties, as a rule, are failures. People never know how to get away from them gracefully.
A picnic on an island or a mountain or in a wood may perhaps be permitted. There is no master
of the mountain bound by courtesy to bid you stay while in his heart he is longing for your
departure. But in a private home or in private grounds a morning party is a bore. One is called
on to eat and drink at unnatural hours. One is obliged to give up the day which is useful,
and is then left without resources for the evening which is useless. One gets home fagged and
desouvre, and yet at an hour too early for bed. There is not comfortable resource left. Cards
in these genteel days are among the things tabooed, and a rubber of whist is impracticable.

All this began now to be felt. Some young people had come with some amount of hope that they
might get up a dance in the evening, and were unwilling to leave till all such hope was at
an end. Others, fearful of staying longer than was expected, had ordered their carriages early,
and were doing their best to go, solicitous for their servants and horses. The countess and
her noble brood were among the first to leave, and as regarded the Hon. George, it was certainly
time that he did so. Her ladyship was in a great fret and fume. Those horrid roads would, she
was sure, be the death of her if unhappily she were caught in them by the dark of night. The
lamps she was assured were good, but no lamp could withstand the jolting of the roads of East
Barsetshire.

The De Courcy property lay in the western division of the county.

Mrs Proudie could not stay when the countess was gone. So the bishop was searched for by the
Revs. Messrs. Grey and Green, and found in one corner of the tent enjoying himself thoroughly
in a disquisition on the hebdomadal board. He obeyed, however, the behests of the lady without
finishing the sentence in which he was promising to Dr Gwynne that his authority at Oxford
should remain unimpaired; and the episcopal horses turned their noses towards the palatial
stables. Then the Grantlys went. Before they did so Mr Harding managed to whisper a word into
his daughter's ear. Of course, he said, he would undeceive the Grantlys as to that foolish
rumour about Mr Slope.

'No, no, no,' said Eleanor; 'pray do not--pray wait till I see you. You will be home in a day
or two, and then I will explain to you everything.'

'I shall be home to-morrow,' said he.

'I am so glad,' said Eleanor. 'You will come and dine with me, and then we shall be so comfortable.'

Mr Harding promised. He did not exactly know what there was to be explained, or why Dr Grantly's
mind should not be disabused of the mistake into which he had fallen; but nevertheless he promised.
He owed some reparation to his daughter, and he thought that he might best make it by obedience.

And thus the people were thinning off by degrees, as Charlotte and Eleanor walked about in
quest of Bertie. Their search might have been long, had they not happened to hear his voice.
He was comfortably ensconced in the ha-ha, with his back to the sloping side, smoking a cigar,
and eagerly engaged in conversation with some youngster from the further side of the county,
whom he had never met before, who was also smoking under Bertie's pupilage, and listening with
open ears to an account given by his companion of some of the pastimes of the Eastern clime.

'Bertie, I am seeking you everywhere,' said Charlotte. 'Come up here at once.'

Bertie looked up out of the ha-ha, and saw the two ladies before him. As there was nothing
for him but to obey, he got up and threw away his cigar. From the first moment of his acquaintance
with her he had liked Eleanor Bold. Had he been left to his own devices, had she been penniless,
and had it then been quite out of the question that he should marry her, he would most probably
have fallen violently in love with her. But now he could not help regarding her somewhat as
he did the marble workshops at Carrara, as he had done his easel and palette, as he had done
the lawyer's chambers in London; in fact, as he had invariably regarded everything by which
it had been proposed to obtain the means of living. Eleanor Bold appeared before him, no longer
as a beautiful woman, but as a new profession called matrimony. It was a profession indeed
requiring but little labour, and one in which an income was insured to him. But nevertheless
he had been as it were goaded on to it; his sister had talked to him of Eleanor, just as she
had talked of busts and portraits. Bertie did not dislike money, but he hated the very thought
of earning it. He was now called away from his pleasant cigar to earn it, by offering himself
as a husband to Mrs Bold. The work indeed was made easy enough; for in lieu of his having to
seek the widow, the widow had apparently come to seek him.

He made some sudden absurd excuse to his auditor, and then throwing away his cigar, climbed
up the wall of the ha-ha and joined the ladies on the lawn.

'Come and give Mrs Bold your arm,' said Charlotte, 'while I set you on a piece of duty which,
as a preux chevalier, you must immediately perform. Your personal danger will, I fear, be insignificant,
as your antagonist is a clergyman.'

Bertie immediately gave his arm to Eleanor, walking between her and his sister. He had lived
too long abroad to fall into an Englishman's habit of offering each an arm to two ladies at
the same time; a habit, by the bye, which foreigners regard as an approach to bigamy, or a
sort of incipient Mormonism.

The little history of Mr Slope's misconduct was then told to Bertie by his sister, Eleanor's
ears tingling the while. And well they might tingle. If it were necessary to speak of the outrage
at all, why should it be spoken of to such a person as Mr Stanhope, and why in her own hearing?
She knew she was wrong, and was unhappy and dispirited, and yet she could think of no way to
extricate herself, no way to set herself right. Charlotte spared her as much as she possibly
could, spoke of the whole thing as though Mr Slope had taken a glass of wine too much, said
that of course there would be nothing more about it, but that steps must be taken to exclude
Mr Slope from the carriage.

'Mrs Bold need be under no alarm about that,' said Bertie, 'for Mr Slope has gone this hour
past. He told me that business made it necessary that he should start at once for Barchester.'

'He is not so tipsy, at any rate, but what he knows his fault,' said Charlotte. 'Well, my dear,
that is one difficulty over. Now I'll leave you with your true knight, and get Madeline off
as quickly as I can. The carriage is here, I suppose, Bertie?'

'It has been here for the last hour.'

'That's well. Good-bye, my dear. Of course you'll come in to tea. I shall trust you to bring
her, Bertie; even by force if necessary.' And so saying, Charlotte was off across the lawn,
leaving her brother alone with the widow.

As Miss Stanhope went off, Eleanor bethought herself that, as Mr Slope had taken his departure,
there no longer existed any necessity for separating Mr Stanhope from his sister Madeline,
who so much needed his aid. It had been arranged that he should remain so as to preoccupy Mr
Slope's place in the carriage, and act as a social policeman to effect the exclusion of that
disagreeable gentleman. But Mr Slope had effected his own exclusion, and there as no possible
reason now why Bertie should not go with his sister. At least Eleanor saw none, and she said
so much.

'Oh, let Charlotte have her own way,' said he. 'She has arranged it, and there will be no end
of confusion if we make another change. Charlotte always arranges everything in our house;
and rules us like a despot.'

'But the signora?' said Eleanor.

'Oh, the signora can do very well without me. Indeed, she will have to do without me,' he added,
thinking rather of his studies in Carrara, than of his Barchester hymeneals.

'Why, you are not going to leave us?' asked Eleanor.

It has been said that Bertie Stanhope was a man without principle. He certainly was so. He
had no power of using active mental exertion to keep himself from doing evil. Evil had no ugliness
in his eyes; virtue no beauty. He was void of any of those feelings which actuate men to do
good. But he was perhaps equally void of those which actuate men to do evil. He got into debt
with utter recklessness, thinking of nothing as to whether the tradesmen would ever be paid
or not. But he did not invent active schemes of deceit for the sake of extracting the goods
of others. If a man gave him credit, that was the man's look-out; Bertie Stanhope troubled
himself nothing further. In borrowing money he did the same; he gave people references to 'his
governor', told them that the 'old chap' had a good income; and agreed to pay sixty per cent
for the accommodation. All this he did without a scruple of conscience; but then he never contrived
active villainy.

In this affair of his marriage, it had been represented to him as a matter of duty that he
ought to put himself in possession of Mrs Bold's hand and fortune; and at first he had so regarded
it. About her he had thought but little. It was the customary thing for men situated as he
was to marry for money, and there was no reason why he should not do what others around him
did. And so he consented. But now he began to see the matter in another light. He was setting
himself down to catch a woman, as a cat sits to catch a mouse. He was to catch her, and swallow
her up, her and her child, and her houses and land, in order that he might live on her instead
of on his father. There was a cold, calculating, cautious cunning about this quite at variance
with Bertie's character. The prudence of the measure was quite as antagonistic to his feelings
as the iniquity.

And then, should he be successful, what would be the reward? Having satisfied his creditors
with half of the widow's fortune, he would be allowed to sit down quietly at Barchester, keeping
economical house with the remainder. His duty would be to rock the cradle of the late Mr Bold's
child, and his highest excitement a demure party at Plumstead rectory, should it ultimately
turn out that the archdeacon be sufficiently reconciled to receive him.

There was little in the programme to allure such a man as Bertie Stanhope. Would not the Carrara
workshop, or whatever worldly career fortune might have in store for him, would not almost
anything be better than this? The lady herself was undoubtedly all that was desirable; but
the most desirable lady becomes nauseous when she has to be taken as a pill. He was pledged
to his sister, however, and let him quarrel with whom he would, it behoved him not to quarrel
with her. If she were lost to him all would be lost that he could ever hope to derive henceforward
from the paternal roof-tree. His mother was apparently indifferent to his weal or woe, to his
wants or to his warfare. His father's brow got blacker and blacker from day to day, as the
old man looked at his hopeless son. And as for Madeline--poor Madeline, whom of all of them
he liked the best,--she had enough to do to shift for herself. No; come what might, he must
cling to his sister and obey her behests, let them be ever so stern; or at the very least be
seen to obey them. Could not some happy deceit bring him through in this matter, so that he
might save appearances with his sister, and yet not betray the widow to her ruin? What if he
made a confidence of Eleanor?

'Twas in this spirit that Bertie Stanhope set about his wooing.

'But you are not going to leave Barchester?' asked Eleanor.

'I do not know,' he replied. 'I hardly know yet what I am going to do. But it is at any rate
certain that I must do something.'

'You mean about your profession?' said she.

'Yes, about my profession, if you can call it one.'

'And is it not one?' said Eleanor. 'Were I a man, I know none I should prefer to it, except
painting. And I believe the one is as much in your power as the other.'

'Yes, just about equally so,' said Bertie with a little touch of inward satire directed at
himself. He knew in his heart that he would never make a penny by either.

'I have often wondered, Mr Stanhope, why you do not exert yourself more,' said Eleanor, who
felt a friendly fondness for the man with whom she was walking. 'But I know it is very impertinent
in me to say so.'

'Impertinent!' said he. 'Not so, but much too kind. It is much too kind in you to take an interest
in so idle a scamp.'

'And make busts of the bishop, dean and chapter? Or perhaps, if I achieve great success, obtain
a commission to put up an elaborate tombstone over a prebendary's widow, a dead lady with a
Grecian nose, a bandeau, and an intricate lace veil; lying of course on a marble sofa, from
among the legs of which Death will be creeping out and poking at his victim with a small toasting-fork.'

Eleanor laughed; but yet she thought that if the surviving prebendary paid the bill the object
of the artist as a professional man would, in great measure, be obtained.

'I don't know about the dean and chapter and the prebendary's widow,' said Eleanor. 'Of course
you must take them as they come. But the fact of your having a great cathedral in which such
ornaments are required, could not but be in your favour.'

'No real artist could descend to the ornamentation of a cathedral,' said Bertie, who had his
ideas of the high ecstatic ambition of art, as indeed all artists have, who are not in receipt
of a good income. 'Building should be fitted to grace the sculpture, not the sculpture to grace
the building.'

'Yes, when the work of art is good enough to merit it. Do you, Mr Stanhope, do something sufficiently
excellent, and we ladies of Barchester will erect for it a fitting receptacle. Come, what shall
the subject be?'

'I'll put you in your pony-chair, Mrs Bold, as Dannecker put Ariadne on her lion. Only you
must promise to sit for me.'

'My ponies are too tame, I fear, and my broad-brimmed straw hat will not look so well in marble
as the lace veil of the prebendary's wife.'

'If you will not consent to that, Mrs Bold, I will consent to try no other subject in Barchester.'

'You are determined, then, to push your fortune in other lands?'

'I am determined,' said Bertie, slowly and significantly as he tried to bring up his mind to
a great resolve; 'I am determined in this matter to be guided wholly by you.'

'Wholly by me!' said Eleanor, astonished at, and not quite liking his altered manner.

'Wholly by you,' said Bertie, dropping his companion's arm, and standing before her on the
path. In their walk they had come exactly to the spot where Eleanor had been provoked into
slapping Mr Slope's face. Could it be possible that the place was peculiarly unpropitious to
her comfort? Could it be possible that she should her have to encounter another amorous swain?

'If you will be guided by me, Mr Stanhope, you will set yourself down to steady and persevering
work, and you will be ruled by your father as to the place in which it will be most advisable
for you to do so.'

'Nothing could be more prudent, if only it were practicable. But now, if you will let me, I
will tell you how it is that I will be guided by you, and why. Will you let me tell you?'

'I really do not know what you can have to tell.'

'No--you cannot know. It is impossible that you should. But we have been very good friends,
Mrs Bold, have we not?'

'Yes, I think we have,' said she, observing in his demeanour an earnestness very unusual with him.

'You were kind enough to say just now that you took an interest in me, and I was perhaps vain
enough to believe you.'

'There is no vanity in that; I do so as your sister's brother,--and as my own friend also.'

'Well, I don't deserve that you should feel so kindly towards me,' said Bertie; 'but upon my
word I am very grateful for it,' and he paused awhile, hardly knowing how to introduce the
subject that he had in hand.

And it was no wonder that he found it difficult. He had to make known to his companion the
scheme that had been prepared to rob her of her wealth; he had to tell her that he loved her
without intending to marry her; and he had also to bespeak from her not only his own pardon,
but also that of his sister, and induce Mrs Bold to protest in her future communication with
Charlotte that an offer had been duly made to her and duly rejected.

Bertie Stanhope was not prone to be very diffident of his own conversational powers, but it
did seem to him that he was about to tax them almost too far. He hardly knew where to begin,
and he hardly knew where he should end.

'I wish to be guided by you,' said he; 'and, indeed, in this matter, there is no one else who
can set me right.'

'Oh, that must be nonsense,' said she.

'Well, listen to me now, Mrs Bold; and if you can help it, pray don't be angry with me.'

'Angry!' said she.

'Oh, indeed you will have cause to do so. You know how very much attached to you my sister
Charlotte is.'

Eleanor acknowledged that she did.

'Indeed she is; I never knew her to love any one so warmly on so short an acquaintance. You
know also how well she loves me?'

Eleanor now made no answer, but she felt the blood tingle in her cheek as she gathered from
what he said the probable result of this double-barrelled love on the part of Miss Stanhope.

'I am her only brother, Mrs Bold, and it is not to be wondered at that she should love me.
But you do not yet know Charlotte--you do not know how entirely the well-being of our family
hangs on her. Without her to manage for us, I do not know how we should get on from day to
day. You cannot yet have observed all this.'

Eleanor had indeed observed a good deal of this; she did not however now say so, but allowed
him to proceed with his story.

'You cannot therefore be surprised that Charlotte should be most anxious to do the best for us all.

Eleanor said that she was not at all surprised.

'And she has had a very difficult game to play, Mrs Bold--a very difficult game. Poor Madeline's
unfortunate marriage and terrible accident, my mother's ill-health, my father's absence from
England, and last, and worst perhaps my own roving, idle spirit have almost been too much for
her. You cannot wonder if among all her cares one of the foremost is to see me settled in the
world.'

Eleanor on this occasion expressed no acquiescence. She certainly supposed that a formal offer
was to be made, and could not but think that so singular an exordium was never before made
by a gentleman in a similar position. Mr Slope had annoyed her by the excess of his ardour.
It was quiet clear that no such danger was to be feared from Mr Stanhope. Prudential motives
alone actuated him. Not only was he about to make love because his sister told him, but he
also took the precaution of explaining all this before he began. 'Twas thus, we may presume,
that the matter presented itself to Mrs Bold.

When he had got so far, Bertie began poling in the gravel with a little cane which he carried.
He still kept moving on, but very slowly, and his companion moved slowly by his side, not inclined
to assist him in the task the performance of which appeared to be difficult to him.

'Knowing how fond she is of yourself, Mrs Bold, cannot you imagine what scheme should have
occurred to her?'

'I can imagine no better scheme, Mr Stanhope, than the one I proposed to you just now.'

'No,' said he, somewhat lack-a-daisically; 'I suppose that would be the best; but Charlotte
thinks another plan might be joined with it.--She wants me to marry you.'

A thousand remembrances flashed across Eleanor's mind all in a moment--how Charlotte had talked
about and praised her brother, how she had continually contrived to throw the two of them together,
how she had encouraged all manner of little intimacies, how she had with singular cordiality
persisted in treating Eleanor as one of the family. All this had been done to secure her comfortable
income for the benefit of one of the family!

Such a feeling as this is very bitter when it first impresses itself on a young mind. To the
old such plots and plans, such matured schemes for obtaining the goods of this world without
the trouble of earning them, such long-headed attempts to convert 'tuum' into 'meum' are the
ways of life to which they are accustomed. 'Tis thus that many live, and it therefore behoves
all those who are well to do in the world be on their guard against those who are not. With
them it is the success that disgusts, not the attempt. But Eleanor had not yet learnt to look
on her money as a source of danger; she had not begun to regard herself as fair game to be
hunted down by hungry gentlemen. She had enjoyed the society of the Stanhopes, she had greatly
liked the cordiality of Charlotte, and had been happy in her new friends. Now she saw the cause
of all that kindness, and her mind was opened to a new phase of human life.

'Miss Stanhope,' said she haughtily, 'has been contriving for me a great deal of honour, but
she might have saved herself the trouble. I an not sufficiently ambitious.'

'Pray don't be angry with her, Mrs Bold,' said he, 'or with me either.'

'Certainly not with you, Mr Stanhope,' said she, with considerable sarcasm in her tone. 'Certainly
not with you.'

'No,--nor with her,' said he imploringly.

'And why, may I ask you, Mr Stanhope, have you told me this singular story? For I may presume
I may judge by your manner of telling it, that--that--that you and your sister are not exactly
of one mind on the subject.'

'No, we are not.'

'And if so,' said Mrs Bold, who was now really angry with the unnecessary insult, which she
thought had been offered to her, 'and if so, why has it been worth your while to tell me all this?'

'I did once think, Mrs Bold--that you--that you--'

