The Revolutionist's Handbook and Pocket Companion

by

George Bernard Shaw

(1856-1950)

Writing as: JOHN TANNER, M.I.R.C.  (Member of the Idle Rich Class).

PREFACE TO THE REVOLUTIONIST'S HANDBOOK

"No one can contemplate the present condition of the masses of the people without desiring
something like a revolution for the better." Sir Robert Giffen.  Essays in Finance, vol. ii.
p. 393.

FOREWORD

A revolutionist is one who desires to discard the existing social order and try another.

The constitution of England is revolutionary.  To a Russian or Anglo-Indian bureaucrat, a general
election is as much a revolution as a referendum or plebiscite in which the people fight instead
of voting. The French Revolution overthrew one set of rulers and substituted another with different
interests and different views.  That is what a general election enables the people to do in
England every seven years if they choose.  Revolution is therefore a national institution in
England; and its advocacy by an Englishman needs no apology.

Every man is a revolutionist concerning the thing he understands.  For example, every person
who has mastered a profession is a sceptic concerning it, and consequently a revolutionist.

Every genuine religious person is a heretic and therefore a revolutionist.

All who achieve real distinction in life begin as revolutionists.  The most distinguished persons
become more revolutionary as they grow older, though they are commonly supposed to become more
conservative owing to their loss of faith in conventional methods of reform.

Any person under the age of thirty, who, having any knowledge of the existing social order,
is not a revolutionist, is an inferior.

AND YET

Revolutions have never lightened the burden of tyranny: they have only shifted it to another
shoulder.

JOHN TANNER

I

ON GOOD BREEDING

If there were no God, said the eighteenth century Deist, it would be necessary to invent Him.
Now this XVIII century god was deus ex machina, the god who helped those who could not help
themselves, the god of the lazy and incapable.  The nineteenth century decided that there is
indeed no such god; and now Man must take in hand all the work that he used to shirk with an
idle prayer.  He must, in effect, change himself into the political Providence which he formerly
conceived as god; and such change is not only possible, but the only sort of change that is
real.  The mere transfiguration of institutions, as from military and priestly dominance to
commercial and scientific dominance, from commercial dominance to proletarian democracy, from
slavery to serfdom, from serfdom to capitalism, from monarchy to republicanism, from polytheism
to monotheism, from monotheism to atheism, from atheism to pantheistic humanitarianism, from
general illiteracy to general literacy, from romance to realism, from realism to mysticism,
from metaphysics to physics, are all but changes from Tweedledum to Tweedledee: plus ça change,
plus c'est la même chose.  But the changes from the crab apple to the pippin, from the wolf
and fox to the house dog, from the charger of Henry V to the brewer's draught horse and the
race-horse, are real; for here Man has played the god, subduing Nature to his intention, and
ennobling or debasing Life for a set purpose.  And what can be done with a wolf can be done
with a man.  If such monsters as the tramp and the gentleman can appear as mere by-products
of Man's individual greed and folly, what might we not hope for as a main product of his universal
aspiration?

This is no new conclusion.  The despair of institutions, and the inexorable "ye must be born
again," with Mrs Poyser's stipulation, "and born different," recurs in every generation.  The
cry for the Superman did not begin with Nietzsche, nor will it end with his vogue.  But it
has always been silenced by the same question: what kind of person is this Superman to be?
You ask, not for a super-apple, but for an eatable apple; not for a superhorse, but for a horse
of greater draught or velocity.  Neither is it of any use to ask for a Superman: you must furnish
a specification of the sort of man you want.  Unfortunately you do not know what sort of man
you want.  Some sort of goodlooking philosopher-athlete, with a handsome healthy woman for
his mate, perhaps.

Vague as this is, it is a great advance on the popular demand for a perfect gentleman and a
perfect lady.  And, after all, no market demand in the world takes the form of exact technical
specification of the article required.  Excellent poultry and potatoes are produced to satisfy
the demand of housewives who do not know the technical differences between a tuber and a chicken.
They will tell you that the proof of the pudding is in the eating; and they are right.  The
proof of the Superman will be in the living; and we shall find out how to produce him by the
old method of trial and error, and not by waiting for a completely convincing prescription
of his ingredients.

Certain common and obvious mistakes may be ruled out from the beginning. For example, we agree
that we want superior mind; but we need not fall into the football club folly of counting on
this as a product of superior body.  Yet if we recoil so far as to conclude that superior mind
consists in being the dupe of our ethical classifications of virtues and vices, in short, of
conventional morality, we shall fall out of the fryingpan of the football club into the fire
of the Sunday School.  If we must choose between a race of athletes and a race of "good" men,
let us have the athletes: better Samson and Milo than Calvin and Robespierre.  But neither
alternative is worth changing for: Samson is no more a Superman than Calvin.  What then are
we to do?

II

PROPERTY AND MARRIAGE

Let us hurry over the obstacles set up by property and marriage. Revolutionists make too much
of them.  No doubt it is easy to demonstrate that property will destroy society unless society
destroys it.  No doubt, also, property has hitherto held its own and destroyed all the empires.
But that was because the superficial objection to it (that it distributes social wealth and
the social labor burden in a grotesquely inequitable manner) did not threaten the existence
of the race, but only the individual happiness of its units, and finally the maintenance of
some irrelevant political form or other, such as a nation, an empire, or the like.  Now as
happiness never matters to Nature, as she neither recognizes flags and frontiers nor cares
a straw whether the economic system adopted by a society is feudal, capitalistic, or collectivist,
provided it keeps the race afoot (the hive and the anthill being as acceptable to her as Utopia),
the demonstrations of Socialists, though irrefutable, will never make any serious impression
on property.  The knell of that over-rated institution will not sound until it is felt to conflict
with some more vital matter than mere personal inequities in industrial economy.  No such conflict
was perceived whilst society had not yet grown beyond national communities too small and simple
to overtax Man's limited political capacity disastrously.  But we have now reached the stage
of international organization.  Man's political capacity and magnanimity are clearly beaten
by the vastness and complexity of the problems forced on him.  And it is at this anxious moment
that he finds, when he looks upward for a mightier mind to help him, that the heavens are empty.
He will presently see that his discarded formula that Man is the Temple of the Holy Ghost happens
to be precisely true, and that it is only through his own brain and hand that this Holy Ghost,
formally the most nebulous person in the Trinity, and now become its sole survivor as it has
always been its real Unity, can help him in any way.  And so, if the Superman is to come, he
must be born of Woman by Man's intentional and well-considered contrivance.  Conviction of
this will smash everything that opposes it.  Even Property and Marriage, which laugh at the
laborer's petty complaint that he is defrauded of "surplus value," and at the domestic miseries
of the slaves of the wedding ring, will themselves be laughed aside as the lightest of trifles
if they cross this conception when it becomes a fully realized vital purpose of the race.

That they must cross it becomes obvious the moment we acknowledge the futility of breeding
men for special qualities as we breed cocks for game, greyhounds for speed, or sheep for mutton.
What is really important in Man is the part of him that we do not yet understand.  Of much
of it we are not even conscious, just as we are not normally conscious of keeping up our circulation
by our heart-pump, though if we neglect it we die.  We are therefore driven to the conclusion
that when we have carried selection as far as we can by rejecting from the list of eligible
parents all persons who are uninteresting, unpromising, or blemished without any set-off, we
shall still have to trust to the guidance of fancy (alias Voice of Nature), both in the breeders
and the parents, for that superiority in the unconscious self which will be the true characteristic
of the Superman.

At this point we perceive the importance of giving fancy the widest possible field.  To cut
humanity up into small cliques, and effectively limit the selection of the individual to his
own clique, is to postpone the Superman for eons, if not for ever.  Not only should every person
be nourished and trained as a possible parent, but there should be no possibility of such an
obstacle to natural selection as the objection of a countess to a navvy or of a duke to a charwoman.
Equality is essential to good breeding; and equality, as all economists know, is incompatible
with property.

Besides, equality is an essential condition of bad breeding also; and bad breeding is indispensable
to the weeding out of the human race. When the conception of heredity took hold of the scientific
imagination in the middle of last century, its devotees announced that it was a crime to marry
the lunatic to the lunatic or the consumptive to the consumptive.  But pray are we to try to
correct our diseased stocks by infecting our healthy stocks with them?  Clearly the attraction
which disease has for diseased people is beneficial to the race.  If two really unhealthy people
get married, they will, as likely as not, have a great number of children who will all die
before they reach maturity. This is a far more satisfactory arrangement than the tragedy of
a union between a healthy and an unhealthy person.  Though more costly than sterilization of
the unhealthy, it has the enormous advantage that in the event of our notions of health and
unhealth being erroneous (which to some extent they most certainly are), the error will be
corrected by experience instead of confirmed by evasion.

