ENGLAND

By Charles Dudley Warner

England has played a part in modern history altogether out of proportion to its size. The whole
of Great Britain, including Ireland, has only eleven thousand more square miles than Italy;
and England and Wales alone are not half so large as Italy. England alone is about the size
of North Carolina. It is, as Franklin, in 1763, wrote to Mary Stevenson in London, "that petty
island which, compared to America, is but a stepping-stone in a brook, scarce enough of it
above water to keep one's shoes dry."

A considerable portion of it is under water, or water-soaked a good part of the year, and I
suppose it has more acres for breeding frogs than any other northern land, except Holland.
Old Harrison says that the North Britons when overcome by hunger used to creep into the marshes
till the water was up to their chins and there remain a long time, "onlie to qualifie the heats
of their stomachs by violence, which otherwise would have wrought and beene readie to oppresse
them for hunger and want of sustinance." It lies so far north--the latitude of Labrador--that
the winters are long and the climate inhospitable. It would be severely cold if the Gulf Stream
did not make it always damp and curtain it with clouds. In some parts the soil is heavy with
water, in others it is only a thin stratum above the chalk; in fact, agricultural production
could scarcely be said to exist there until fortunes made in India and in other foreign adventure
enabled the owners of the land to pile it knee-deep with fertilizers from Peru and elsewhere.
Thanks to accumulated wealth and the Gulf Stream, its turf is green and soft; figs, which will
not mature with us north of the capes of Virginia, ripen in sheltered nooks in Oxford, and
the large and unfrequent strawberry sometimes appears upon the dinner-table in such profusion
that the guests can indulge in one apiece.

Yet this small, originally infertile island has been for two centuries, and is today, the most
vital influence on the globe. Cast your eye over the world upon her possessions, insular and
continental, into any one of which, almost, England might be dropped, with slight disturbance,
as you would transfer a hanging garden. For any parallel to her power and possessions you must
go back to ancient Rome. Egypt under Thotmes and Seti overran the then known world and took
tribute of it; but it was a temporary wave of conquest and not an assimilation. Rome sent her
laws and her roads to the end of the earth, and made an empire of it; but it was an empire
of barbarians largely, of dynasties rather than of peoples. The dynasties fought, the dynasties
submitted, and the dynasties paid the tribute. The modern "people" did not exist. One battle
decided the fate of half the world--it might be lost or won for a woman's eyes; the flight
of a chieftain might settle the fate of a province; a campaign might determine the allegiance
of half Asia. There was but one compact, disciplined, law-ordered nation, and that had its
seat on the Tiber.

Under what different circumstances did England win her position! Before she came to the front,
Venice controlled, and almost monopolized, the trade of the Orient. When she entered upon her
career Spain was almost omnipotent in Europe, and was in possession of more than half the Western
world; and besides Spain, England had, wherever she went, to contend for a foothold with Portugal,
skilled in trade and adventure; and with Holland, rich, and powerful on the sea. That is to
say, she met everywhere civilizations old and technically her superior. Of the ruling powers,
she was the least in arts and arms. If you will take time to fill out this picture, you will
have some conception of the marvelous achievements of England, say since the abdication of
the Emperor Charles V.

This little island is today the centre of the wealth, of the solid civilization, of the world.
I will not say of art, of music, of the lighter social graces that make life agreeable; but
I will say of the moral forces that make progress possible and worth while. Of this island
the centre is London; of London the heart is "the City," and in the City you can put your finger
on one spot where the pulse of the world is distinctly felt to beat. The Moslem regards the
Kaaba at Mecca as the centre of the universe; but that is only a theological phrase. The centre
of the world is the Bank of England in Leadenhall Street. There is not an occurrence, not a
conquest or a defeat, a revolution, a panic, a famine, an abundance, not a change in value
of money or material, no depression or stoppage in trade, no recovery, no political, and scarcely
any great religious movement--say the civil deposition of the Pope or the Wahhabee revival
in Arabia and India--that does not report itself instantly at this sensitive spot. Other capitals
feel a local influence; this feels all the local influences. Put your ear at the door of the
Bank or the Stock Exchange near by, and you hear the roar of the world.

But this is not all, nor the most striking thing, nor the greatest contrast to the empires
of Rome and of Spain. The civilization that has gone forth from England is a self-sustaining
one, vital to grow where it is planted, in vast communities, in an order that does not depend,
as that of the Roman world did, upon edicts and legions from the capital. And it must be remembered
that if the land empire of England is not so vast as that of Rome, England has for two centuries
been mistress of the seas, with all the consequences of that opportunity--consequences to trade
beyond computation. And we must add to all this that an intellectual and moral power has been
put forth from England clear round the globe, and felt beyond the limits of the English tongue.

How is it that England has attained this supremacy--a supremacy in vain disputed on land and
on sea by France, but now threatened by an equipped and disciplined Germany, by an unformed
Colossus--a Slav and Tartar conglomerate; and perhaps by one of her own children, the United
States? I will mention some of the things that have determined England's extraordinary career;
and they will help us to consider her prospects. I name:

I. The Race. It is a mixed race, but with certain dominant qualities, which we call, loosely,
Teutonic; certainly the most aggressive, tough, and vigorous people the world has seen. It
does not shrink from any climate, from any exposure, from any geographic condition; yet its
choice of migration and of residence has mainly been on the grass belt of the globe, where
soil and moisture produce good turf, where a changing and unequal climate, with extremes of
heat and cold, calls out the physical resources, stimulates invention, and requires an aggressive
and defensive attitude of mind and body. The early history of this people is marked by two things:

( 1 ) Town and village organizations, nurseries of law, order, and self-dependence, nuclei
of power, capable of indefinite expansion, leading directly to a free and a strong government,
the breeders of civil liberty.

( 2 ) Individualism in religion, Protestantism in the widest sense: I mean by this, cultivation
of the individual conscience as against authority. This trait was as marked in this sturdy
people in Catholic England as it is in Protestant England. It is in the blood. England never
did submit to Rome, not even as France did, though the Gallic Church held out well. Take the
struggle of Henry II. and the hierarchy. Read the fight with prerogative all along. The English
Church never could submit. It is a shallow reading of history to attribute the final break
with Rome to the unbridled passion of Henry VIII.; that was an occasion only: if it had not
been that, it would have been something else.

Here we have the two necessary traits in the character of a great people: the love and the
habit of civil liberty and religious conviction and independence. Allied to these is another
trait--truthfulness. To speak the truth in word and action, to the verge of bluntness and offense--and
with more relish sometimes because it is individually obnoxious and unlovely--is an English
trait, clearly to be traced in the character of this people, notwithstanding the equivocations
of Elizabethan diplomacy, the proverbial lying of English shopkeepers, and the fraudulent adulteration
of English manufactures. Not to lie is perhaps as much a matter of insular pride as of morals;
to lie is unbecoming an Englishman. When Captain Burnaby was on his way to Khiva he would tolerate
no Oriental exaggeration of his army rank, although a higher title would have smoothed his
way and added to his consideration. An English official who was a captive at Bokhara (or Khiva)
was offered his life by the Khan if he would abjure the Christian faith and say he was a Moslem;
but he preferred death rather than the advantage of a temporary equivocation. I do not suppose
that he was a specially pious man at home or that he was a martyr to religious principle, but
for the moment Christianity stood for England and English honor and civilization. I can believe
that a rough English sailor, who had not used a sacred name, except in vain, since he said
his prayer at his mother's knee, accepted death under like circumstances rather than say he
was not a Christian.

The next determining cause in England's career is:

II. The insular position. Poor as the island was, this was the opportunity. See what came of it:

( 1 ) Maritime opportunity. The irregular coastlines, the bays and harbors, the near islands
and mainlands invited to the sea. The nation became, per force, sailors--as the ancient Greeks
were and the modern Greeks are: adventurers, discoverers--hardy, ambitious, seeking food from
the sea and wealth from every side.

( 2 ) Their position protected them. What they got they could keep; wealth could accumulate.
Invasion was difficult and practically impossible to their neighbors. And yet they were in
the bustling world, close to the continent, commanding the most important of the navigable
seas. The wealth of Holland was on the one hand, the wealth of France on the other. They held
the keys.

( 3 ) The insular position and their free institutions invited refugees from all the Continent,
artisans and skilled laborers of all kinds. Hence, the beginning of their great industries,
which made England rich in proportion as her authority and chance of trade expanded over distant
islands and continents. But this would not have been possible without the third advantage which
I shall mention, and that is:

III. Coal. England's power and wealth rested upon her coal-beds. In this bounty nature was
more liberal to the tight little island than to any other spot in Western Europe, and England
took early advantage of it. To be sure, her coal-field is small compared with that of the United
States--an area of only 11,900 square miles to our 192,000. But Germany has only 1,770; Belgium,
510; France, 2,086; and Russia only in her expansion of territory leads Europe in this respect,
and has now 30,000 square miles of coal-beds. But see the use England makes of this material:
in 1877, she took out of the ground 134,179,968 tons. The United States the same year took
out 50,000,000 tons; Germany, 48,000,000; France, 16,000,000; Belgium, 14,000,000. This tells
the story of the heavy industries.

