Each of the ladies took some roses and mignonette, and the gentlemen, who did not care for
carnations in the least, weakened when I approached modestly to pin them in their coats, a
la barmaid.

At this moment one of the children began to tease for a canary.

"Have you one for sale?" inquired the fond mother.

"Certainly, madam." (I was prepared to sell the cottage by this time.)

"What do you ask for them?"

Rapid calculation on my part, excessively difficult without pencil and paper. A canary is three
to five dollars in America,--that is, from twelve shilling to a pound; then at a venture, "From
ten shillings to a guinea, madam, according to the quality of the bird."

"Would you like one for your birthday, Margaret, and do you think you can feed it and take
quite good care of it?"

"Oh yes, mamma!"

"Have you a cage?" to me inquiringly.

"Certainly, madam; it is not a new one, but I shall only charge you a shilling for it." (Impromptu
plan: not knowing whether Mrs. Bobby had any cages, or if so where she kept them, to remove
the canary in Mrs. Bobby's chamber from the small wooden cage it inhabited, close the windows,
and leave it at large in the room; then bring out the cage and sell it to the lady.)

"Very well, then, please select me a good singer for about twelve shillings; a very yellow
one, please."

I did so. I had no difficulty about the colour; but as the birds all stopped singing when I
put my hand into the cages, I was somewhat at a loss to choose a really fine performer. I did
my best, with the result that it turned out to be the mother of several fine families, but
no vocalist, and the generous young man brought it back for an exchange some days afterwards;
not only that, but he came three times during the next week and nearly ruined his nervous system
with tea.

The party finally mounted the char-a-bancs, just as I was about to offer the baby for twenty-five
pounds, and dirt cheap at that. Meanwhile I gave the driver a cup of lukewarm tea, for which
I refused absolutely to accept any remuneration.

I had cleared the tables before Mrs. Bobby returned, flushed and panting, with the guilty cow.
Never shall I forget that good dame's astonishment, her mild deprecations, her smiles--nay,
her tears--as she inspected my truly English account and received the silver.

                                  s.  d.
     Nine teas.   .   .   .       3   6
     Cream    .   .   .   .           7
     Bread-and-butter   .   .     1   6
     Extra teas.   .   .   .          9
     Marmalade.   .   .   .           6
     Three tips.   .   .   .      2   0
     Four roses and mignonette.   1   8
     Three carnations   .   .         6
     Canary   .   .   .   .      12   0
     Cage     .   .   .   . She was tucked
                                 into bed
                                 and a doctor was called.

The young woman was really sick. Mrs. John S. Wise and Mrs. James Stuart, two of the good
samaritans of Alexandria were told and they took turns staying with her.
 On that modest investment, I considered one pound three shillings a
very fair sum to be earned by an inexperienced 'licensed victualler' like myself, particularly
as I am English only by adoption, and not by birth.

Chapter XXV. Et ego in Arcadia vixit.

I essayed another nap after this exciting episode. I heard the gate open once or twice, but
a single stray customer, after my hungry and generous horde, did not stir my curiosity, and
I sank into a refreshing slumber, dreaming that Willie Beresford and I kept an English inn,
and that I was the barmaid. This blissful vision had been of all too short duration when I
was awakened by Mrs. Bobby's apologetic voice. 

Vertue began his collection in 1713, and worked at it until his death in 1757, forty-four years
his pocket-books was contained the whole history of this man of one idea which was brougth
from Vertue's idow after Vertue's death There is nothing for you to do, miss, only if you'll kindly keep an eye on
the customer at the yew-tree table. He's been here for 'alf an hour, miss, and I think more
than likely he's a foreigner, by his actions, or may be he's not quite right in his 'ead, though
'armless. He has taken four cups of tea, miss, and Billy saw him turn two of them into the
'olly'ocks. He has been feeding bread-and-butter to the dog, and now the baby is on his knee,
playing with his fine gold watch. He gave me a 'alf-a-crown and refused to take a penny change;
but why does he stop so long, miss? I can't help worriting over the silver cream-jug that was
my mother's."

Mrs. Bobby disappeared. I rose lazily, and approached the window to keep my promised eye on
the mysterious customer. I lifted back the purple clematis to get a better view.

It was Willie Beresford! He looked up at my ejaculation of surprise, and, dropping the baby
as if it had been a parcel, strode under the window.

I (gasping). "How did you come here?"

He. "By the usual methods, dear."

I. "You shouldn't have come without asking. Where are all your fine promises? What shall I
do with you? Do you know there isn't an hotel within four miles?"

He. "That is nothing; it was four hundred miles that I couldn't endure. But give me a less
grudging welcome than this, though I am like a starving dog that will snatch any morsel thrown
to him! It is really autumn, Penelope, or it will be in a few days. We have thirty-nine Training
Schools in the Salvation Army. Our people for both missionary and
home fields get an intelligent tuition and practical training for
their service.

(The sight of him so near, after my weeks of loneliness, gave me a feeling so sudden, so sweet,
and so vivid that it seemed to smite me first on the eyes, and then in the heart; and at the
first note of his convincing voice Doubt picked up her trailing skirts and fled for ever.)

I. "Yes, if you must know it, I am glad to see you; so glad, indeed, that nothing in the world
seems to matter so long as you are here." 

Brown wrote of Voltaire:

As He is honored with prose and verse, and holds weith the learning rod of wit's bauble, He also
believes in soul. He is very confident in God.

There is no one more sure. However, as a intellectual, he confesses that even he cannot demonstrate
these honored truths.

Thus, Kant's famous Critique of the Pure Reason can be considered
as the forerunner of the systematic agnoticism that is present in
Mr. Spencer's First Principles.

Despite that, there is an enormous difference, since Kant was duly
convinced of a reality that man's mind could not demonstrate. There
were prominent and existing great facts, but he was unable to find
them with his measly tools. Browne tells us, "you can do a good deed
but you don't have to do it exclusively, or often."

Browne published his study of the reactions of eggs exposed to physical and chemical stimuli
in an effort to document the reactions of the embryos and any developmental
anomalies.

His findings were met with mixed feelings by his contemporaries, who adhered to mainstream
ideas about the subject and were not willing to deviate from the standard conceptions of the
times

.
 Meeting their death at the jaws of a strange marauding dog, is a sad story to
tell. They did not sense danger in him, and were easy victims.

Tame Rabbits

The long-haired Angora is a very intelligent and handsome rabbit. To keep their long coats from matting
or becoming frowsy, they need regular grooming and care. Belgian hares are large and powerful rabbits,
and tend to have an uncertain temper.

They have glossy coats and are industrious and amusing to watch.
The lop-eared rabbit is less brisk and more stately than the prick-eared
variety. The Himalayan rabbit, which is not connected with the mountains
from which it is named, is all white except for the nose, ears, tail
and feet, which are black or very dark colored.

