The worst was now over. From the middle of September the number of deaths in the city began
to decrease almost as rapidly as they had risen. In the first week in November there was a
sudden increase on the return of the previous week, but in the following week there was again
a fall, and this continued until in the first week of December the deaths in the city numbered
only twenty-four. Nevertheless it was thought advisable to prohibit the usual entertainments
which took place after the wardmote elections on St. Thomas’s day, in order to minimise the
risk of infection.(1298) The mayor was justified in taking this precaution, for the very next
week the number of deaths more than doubled itself (57). That the city of London was at this
time one of the healthiest places in the kingdom is shown by the fact that just as it was one
of the last places attacked by the plague, so it was one of the first to become free, in spite
of its having been made "the receptacle of all the people from all infected places."(1299)

The total number of victims in the city proper during the twelve month ending the 19th December,
1665, is officially given as 9,887. When we consider that the entire population within the
city walls—comprising an area of one square mile, more or less—could scarcely have reached
100,000,(1300) the extent of the calamity becomes appalling; the city was literally decimated.

(M659) (M660)

Whilst the plague was raging the English fleet had remained in the Thames, leaving the Dutch
masters of the sea. The opening of the new year (1666) found England engaged in a war with
France, as well as with the Dutch. Louis, however, was content to leave the English and the
Dutch to settle matters between themselves at sea. On the 1st June a desperate naval battle
commenced off the North Foreland and continued for four days, at the end of which neither party
could claim a victory. Both fleets withdrew for repairs. It was at this crisis that the "Loyal
London" was hastily launched and application made to the city for a loan of £100,000. The money
was readily voted, contrary to expectations.(1301)

(M661)

When the last instalment (£1,500) of the loan was paid into the exchequer, the Guildhall and
its surroundings were being threatened with destruction by the Great Fire,(1302) which, breaking
out on the night of Saturday, 1st September, 1666, or early on Sunday morning, at a baker’s
shop in Pudding Lane, within five days reduced the greater part of the city to ashes. The king
had long ago anticipated such a calamity, arising from the narrowness of the streets and the
overhanging houses built for the most part of wood. More than a year before (11 April, 1665)
he had written to the mayor, recorder and aldermen of the city(1303) warning them of the danger
and recommending a more diligent execution of the Act for the repair of highways and sewers.
He authorised them to imprison such persons as, after due warning, continued to erect buildings
in contravention of the Act, and to pull the buildings down. He further desired them to open
Temple Bar and the passage and gatehouse of Cheapside in St. Paul’s Churchyard, as mentioned
in the Act, and he would himself inspect what progress was being made in carrying out these
improvements. He concluded by declaring that he had made the city his royal residence,(1304)
and had received from it such marks of loyalty and affection as would ever make him concerned
for its wealth, trade, reputation, beauty and convenience.

The outbreak of the fire at first caused no uneasiness, such sights being only too common.
But when no less than 300 houses had been destroyed within a few hours, and the flames, carried
by a strong east wind that prevailed, threatened others, the inhabitants began to take alarm.
The mayor, Sir Thomas Bludworth, was early on the scene, but he lacked decision of character
and failed to keep his head. He endeavoured to carry out the king’s orders by pulling down
houses to prevent the fire spreading, but as often as not he was overtaken by the flames. "The
Duke of York," wrote an eye-witness of the mournful scene,(1306) "hath wonn the hearts of the
people wth his continuall and indefatigable paynes day and night in helping to quench the fire,
handing bucketts of water with as much diligence as the poorest man that did assist; if the
lord maior had done as much his example might have gone far towards saveing the citty."

(M662)

In spite of every effort to stay its progress the fire continued to rage throughout the whole
of Monday and Tuesday. By this time Lombard Street, Cannon Street and Gracechurch Street had
been reduced to ashes. The houses on London Bridge were attacked and Southwark threatened with
destruction. On Wednesday the flames devastated Cornhill and the Exchange. The following day
they got hold of St. Paul’s (at that time undergoing repairs and surrounded with scaffolding),
and were carried by the east wind towards the Temple and Hatton Garden. The brick buildings
of the Temple offered a more stubborn resistance than the wooden buildings of the city, and
prevented the fire spreading further westward.(1307) In the meantime resort was had to gunpowder
for the quicker destruction of houses in the city, and by this means much was eventually saved
which otherwise would inevitably have been lost. But this was not done without considerable
opposition from the owners of houses who objected to their property being blown up if there
was a chance of it being saved.(1308) At last the "horrid, malicious, bloody flame," described
by Pepys as so unlike the flame of an ordinary fire, burnt itself out, and at the close of
Thursday, the 6th September, the inhabitants of the city were able for the first time since
the outbreak to seek a night’s rest without fear of further danger. When they rose the next
morning and contemplated the extent of the havoc wrought on their city by the fire, the hearts
of many must have fairly sunk within them. At least four-fifths of the whole of the buildings
situate within the walls had been reduced to ashes. The official report was that no less than
13,200 houses and eighty-nine parish churches, besides St. Paul’s and divers chapels, were
destroyed, and that only seventy-five acres out of a total of 373 acres of ground within the
walls escaped the conflagration.(1309) These seventy-five acres chiefly lay in the vicinity
of Aldgate and Tower Hill, and probably owed their immunity from the fire to the free use of
gunpowder, for it was in Tower Street, Pepys tells us, that the practice of blowing up houses
began. Most of the livery companies lost their halls. Clothworkers’ Hall burned for three days
and three nights, the flames being fed with the oil that was stored in its cellars. The Leaden
Hall was partly saved. Gresham House also escaped; but the Guildhall suffered severely, its
outer walls only being left standing.

(M663)

Much dissatisfaction was displayed against Bludworth for his want of resolution during the
crisis,(1310) and when Michaelmas-day arrived, and he was about to go out of office, he was
called to account for his conduct. In anticipation of lord mayor’s day he wrote to Joseph Williamson,
afterwards Secretary of State, bespeaking his favour and support. He professed not to live
by popular applause (he said), but he needed and desired the support and esteem of government,
"having had the misfortune to serve in the severest year that ever man did."(1311)

(M664)

As to the origin of the fire the wildest rumours at the time prevailed, and for years afterwards
it was commonly attributed to Papists wishing to destroy the stronghold of the reformed religion,
notwithstanding the fact that not a scintilla of evidence was forthcoming in support of such
a charge, after a most careful investigation.(1312) The citizens were not satisfied with the
first inquiry, and in March, 1668, a petition was prepared to lay before parliament to re-open
the question and to receive fresh evidence.(1313) Thirteen years later the belief that the
Papists had a hand in causing the wholesale destruction of the city was formally promulgated
by the House of Commons (10 Jan., 1681),(1314) and the same belief was perpetuated by an inscription
on the Monument commemorating the fire, an inscription which met with the approval of the municipal
authorities of the day.(1315)

(M665)

Sir Patience Ward happened to be mayor at the time, but was probably no more responsible for
the inscription than any other member of the Court of Aldermen or Common Council, notwithstanding
the severe reflection passed upon him by his namesake Thomas Ward,(1316) who, speaking of Titus
Oates and his bogus "discoveries," wrote:

"He swore—with flaming faggot sticks, In sixteen hundred sixty-six, That they through London
took their marches, And burnt the city down with torches; Yet all invisible they were, Clad
in their coats of Lapland air. The sniffling Whig-mayor Patience Ward To this damn’d lie paid
such regard, That he his godly masons sent, T’ engrave it round the Monument: They did so;
but let such things pass— His men were fools, himself an ass."

(M667)

As soon as the fire began to abate measures were taken to provide food for the houseless poor.
A detachment of 200 soldiers was ordered to London from Hertfordshire with carts laden with
pickaxes, ropes, buckets, etc., to prevent any further outbreak, whilst the justices of the
peace and deputy lieutenants were instructed to forward provisions to the city, especially
bread and cheese, lest the much suffering inhabitants should perish from starvation.(1319)

(M668)

The City received much sympathy and no little assistance from other cities, both in England
and Ireland. The city of York not only despatched its town clerk to London to express its condolences
with the Londoners in their great loss, but the lord mayor of York wrote (17 Sept.) to the
lord mayor of London to tell him that a small sum of money—"as much as this poore decayed citty
could furnish us with"—was on its way to London for the relief of the most necessitous and
distressed.(1320)

(M669)

Ten days later (29 Sept.) Lord Ormond and the Lords of the Council of Ireland wrote to Bludworth
expressing their hearty sorrow at the calamity that had befallen the citizens of London, who
had shown so much humanity and kindness to the Protestants of Ireland in the late rebellion.
They desired to assist the city in its distress, but money was so scarce in Ireland that they
were compelled to ask the city to accept the greater part of such assistance as that country
could offer in cattle, which should be despatched either alive or slaughtered, as his lordship
should prefer, to any port in Ireland. But before this could be done the assent of parliament
would have to be obtained.(1321)

(M670)

The inhabitants of Londonderry sent a deeply sympathetic and affectionate letter to their "deare
mother citty," and forwarded a sum of £250 to assist those "who buylt or howses now their oune
are in ashes." They could not send more (they said) because of the deep poverty that lay upon
their city and the general want of money throughout the country. What they did send they sent
as an expression of their love and duty to their "honoured mother."(1322)

(M671)

In the meantime a special Court of Aldermen had met in the afternoon of Thursday, the 6th September,
and appointed Gresham House for the meetings of the Court of Aldermen and Common Council, and
for transacting the general municipal business of the city until further order. The mayor and
the sheriffs, whose houses had been destroyed, were also to take up their lodging there during
the remainder of their year of office. The Exchange, too, was ordered to be kept in the gardens
or walks of Gresham House. The house was to be got ready with all speed, and the governor of
the East India Company was to be desired to see that the pepper stored in the walks was removed
without delay. Temporary sites were at the same time appointed for the various markets until
better accommodation could be found. Those who had been rendered houseless were allowed to
erect sheds on the void places of London Bridge. It was further resolved to entreat his majesty
to send tents into Finsbury Fields for housing the poor until they could provide themselves
with habitations. The other wants of the poor were to be supplied as far as possible by the
masters, wardens and assistants of the several companies of which they happened to be members.(1323)
On Friday the court again met at Gresham House, when it gave orders for the ruins of the Guildhall
to be cleared of all rubbish. Melted lead, iron, and such other materials as were of value
were to be picked out and stored for further use. The passages to the Guildhall were to be
boarded up. The chamberlain was ordered to remove his office to Gresham House; and thither
also were to go the deputy town clerk and the city swordbearer, whose houses had been consumed.
They were to take with them the city’s records and such books and papers as were in actual
use.(1324)

(M672)

The next day (8 Sept.) the court gave permission for any freeman of the city to erect a tent
or shed wherein to carry on his trade or craft on any part of the artillery ground, or if he
so wished, either outside London wall between the postern near Broad Street and Moorgate, or
within the wall between the said postern and Coleman Street. He might also erect his tent or
shed in the "Round" at Smithfield. But in every case the ground was to be set out as apportioned
by the mayor and sheriffs with the assistance of "Mr." [Peter] Mills. Those who had formerly
kept shop in the upper "pawne" of the Royal Exchange were at the same time permitted to erect
sheds under certain conditions.(1325)

(M673)

On Monday, the 10th September, the Common Council met. It is the first court since the fire
of which any record has come down to us. Its first care was to order every street and lane
in each ward to be cleared of all rubbish by the late inhabitants, "every one before his grounds,"
and by no one else. It next proceeded to nominate a committee of aldermen and commoners to
consider the best means of raising the city out of its ruins, and it was agreed that the Common
Council should sit every Wednesday at Gresham House.(1326)

(M674)

When the fire was at its height the king had been anxious to send for the Duke of Albemarle,
but hesitated to do so fearing lest he would be unwilling to be ordered home whilst engaged
in the Dutch war.(1327) Representations of the king’s wishes, however, having been made to
the duke, he hurried home. On the 12th September a committee was appointed by the Court of
Aldermen to wait upon him with a draft proclamation for the discovery and restoration of goods
taken either wilfully, ignorantly, or of purpose during the confusion consequent on the late
fire.(1328) The quantity of plate, money, jewels, household stuff, goods and merchandise discovered
among the ruins was very great, and much of it had quickly been misappropriated. The proclamation
ordered all persons who had so misappropriated property to bring the same within eight days
into the armoury in Finsbury Fields; and by order of the Common Council no such property was
to be given up to any claimant without permission of the Court of Aldermen or the lord mayor
and sheriffs for the time being.(1329)

(M675)

A month later (19 Oct.) a letter was addressed to the mayor signed by the archbishop of Canterbury,
the lords Clarendon, Albemarle, Manchester, Arlington and others, complaining that sundry materials
of city churches destroyed by the fire had been embezzled and stolen, and also that smiths’
forges and other artificers’ shops and even alehouses were kept within the sacred ruins. The
mayor was directed, with the assistance of the Court of Aldermen, to obtain inventories of
all communion plate, vestments, records, books and other goods belonging to each church that
the fire had destroyed, and of all that remained to each church after the fire, and he was
to cause the plate and goods that survived the fire to be preserved for future use in their
respective churches. He was further directed to collect and preserve the lead, bells and other
appurtenances and materials of the various churches in order to assist in repairing and re-building
them, and to prohibit any trade or selling of ale, beer, tobacco or victuals within their precincts.(1330)

(M676)

One effect of the fire, which was estimated at the time to have destroyed houses of the rental
value of £600,000 a-year,(1331) was seen in the lack of pageantry which usually marked the
day when the newly elected mayor proceeded to the Exchequer to be sworn. When Bludworth’s successor—Sir
William Bolton—went to take the oath on the 29th October, the meanness of the appearance of
the civic fathers was remarked by the on-lookers, who reflected "with pity upon the poor city
... compared with what it heretofore was."(1332)

(M677)

Another result was that when the day for election of members of the Common Council was approaching,
the Court of Aldermen, considering how difficult it would be, if not absolutely impossible,
to hold the customary wardmotes, resolved to present a Bill to Parliament for permitting the
sitting members to continue in their places for the year next ensuing without any election
being held.(1333)

(M678)

Fourteen years after the fire (i.e., towards the close of the year 1680) the City projected
a scheme for insurance against fire, and in 1681 a deed of conveyance of city lands of the
estimated value of £100,000 was executed by the City to certain trustees as security to persons
effecting insurances against fire.(1334) That the municipal body of the city should undertake
a business of insurance and thus compete with private enterprise gave rise to no little discontent
among the "gentlemen of the insurance office" carrying on business "on the backside of the
Royal Exchange," who claimed to have originated the idea.(1335)

CHAPTER XXIX.

(M679)

The Great Fire had scarcely ceased smouldering before the inhabitants of the city set to work
re-building their devastated houses. Information having reached the ear of the king that building
operations were about to be carried out on the old foundations, he instructed Sir William Morice,
secretary of state, to write to the lord mayor to put a stop to them until further orders,
as his majesty had under consideration certain models and plans for re-building the city "with
more decency and conveniency than formerly."(1336) Charles himself also wrote at the same time
to the mayor and aldermen desiring them to afford every assistance to Wenceslas Hollar and
Francis Sandford, whom he had appointed to make an exact survey of the city as it stood after
the fire.(1337) The civic authorities on their part instructed Robert Hooke to devise a scheme
for re-building the city, and on the 21st September he presented to the Common Council "an
exquisite modell or draught" which found much favour with the court.(1338) Early in the following
month (4 Oct.) the Common Council was informed that for the greater expedition in carrying
out the work of re-building the city, the king had appointed Wren and two others to make a
survey, with the assistance of such surveyors and workmen as the civic authorities should nominate.
The city’s choice fell upon Robert Hooke, described as "Reader of the Mathematicks in Gresham
Colledge," Peter Mills and Edward Jermyn or Jarman. By way of preparation for the survey, the
owners of houses that had been destroyed were again ordered (9 Oct.) to clear their foundations
of rubbish, and to pile up the bricks and stones within fourteen days, so that every man’s
property might be "more exactly measured and asserted."(1339)

(M680)

The impracticability of re-building the city except on old foundations soon become manifest,
and the handsome design which Wren prepared had to be dismissed. There was difficulty enough
as it was, and the four sworn viewers of the city whose duty at ordinary times was to guard
against encroachments and other nuisances were unusually busy. Sometimes the old foundations
proved too weak to support a new building, sometimes the new building threatened to encroach
on the public thoroughfare. Such matters required the constant attention of the viewers. Disputes
would also arise between the landlords and tenants of houses destroyed by the fire. In order
to settle all differences that arose, a special Court of Judicature was established by Act
of Parliament (31 Jan., 1667).(1340) The court sat at Clifford’s Inn, and the decrees signed
by the judges, as well as the portraits of the judges themselves, are preserved at the Guildhall.(1341)
The city authorities were very urgent in getting this Act passed, and pressed the judges to
give the Bill all dispatch they could, "as a matter of principal concernment and encouragement
to the great worke of re-building the citty." This their lordships promised to do.(1342)

(M681)

It was not deemed in any way derogatory in those days to give and receive presents for services
either past or prospective. We need not be surprised therefore to find that whilst this and
other Bills in which the City was interested were before Parliament, the Court of Aldermen
voted a sum of £100 in gold as a gift to the Speaker of the House of Commons, "as a loving
remembrance from this court for his many kind offices performed to the State of this citty."(1343)

(M682)

Whilst a Bill for re-building the city was being prepared for parliament the civic authorities
were busy considering how to find the money necessary for re-building the Guildhall, the city’s
gates, the prisons and other public buildings. On the 6th November (1666) the Court of Aldermen
resolved to sit every Wednesday afternoon at the house of the new lord mayor (Sir William Bolton)
to consider this important question, and to continue such weekly sittings until the matter
was settled.(1344)  It was not long before the court determined to apply to parliament for
an imposition of twelve pence a chaldron on coals brought into the Port of London, wherewith
to meet the expense. The advice and assistance of the solicitor-general and of Sir Job Charlton
were to be solicited, and £10 in "old gold" given to each of them, in addition to "such other
charges and rewards" as might be necessary for the furtherance of the business.(1345) Later
on the court resolved to approach the Lord Chancellor and to entreat him to recommend the City’s
proposals to his majesty and to the House of Lords.(1346) By the end of November the Common
Council had agreed to certain "heads thought requisite to be inserted" into the Bill for re-building
the city,(1347) and on the 29th December the Bill was brought in and read the first time.

For fear lest some of the clauses might offend the king a petition was drawn up for presentation
to his majesty, in which matters were explained, and his majesty’s favourable interpretation
and pardon asked for anything omitted in the Bill or done amiss.(1348) A report had got abroad
that the City had caused a clause to be inserted in the Bill forbidding any one to engage in
building operations who refused to abjure the Covenant. This made the Common Council very angry,
and the mayor and sheriffs were desired to investigate the matter.(1349) On the 5th February
(1667) the Bill passed the Commons, and two days later received the assent of the Lords.(1350)

In the meantime the Court of Aldermen had drafted (22 Jan.) a petition to the king for permission
to introduce a Bill for an impost on coals, to assist the City in re-building the conduits,
aqueducts and other public works, as it had "no common stock, nor revenue, nor any capacity
to raise within itself anything considerable towards so vast an expense."(1351) But instead
of a new Bill for this purpose, a clause was inserted in the Bill for re-building the city
(Stat. 19 Car. II, c. 3), authorising such an impost as was desired.(1352)

(M683)

The Common Council directed (19 Feb.) the lord mayor, the recorder and the sheriffs to attend
the king and the Duke of York with the most humble thanks of the court for the favour they
had shown the City in passing the Bill, and to learn his majesty’s pleasure as to the enlargement
of the streets of the city in pursuance of the recent Act.(1353)

(M684)

On the 12th March certain proposals for widening streets which had received the approval of
the Common Council were submitted to Charles at a council held at Berkshire House, now Cleveland
House, St. James’s. On the following day they were returned to the Common Council with his
majesty’s recommendations and suggestions thereon. The same day (13 March), the City nominated
Peter Mills, Edward Jarman, Robert Hooke and John Oliver to be surveyors and supervisors of
the houses about to be re-built; the king’s commissioners, Christopher Wren, Hugh May and "Mr."
Prat being ordered by his majesty to afford them their best advice and assistance whenever
it should be required.(1354)

In September the king suggested the appointment of Sir William Bolton, the lord mayor, as surveyor-general
for the re-building of the city. The suggestion was referred to a committee, who reported to
the Common Council (25 Oct.) their opinion that there was "noe use or occasion for a surveyor-generall,"
as the work could be well and sufficiently managed by the surveyors already appointed.(1355)

(M685)

Pursuant to the Building Act the Common Council proceeded (21 March) to parcel out the streets
of the city, placing them under the several categories of "high and principal streets," "streets
or lanes of note," and "by-lanes."(1356) The scheme met with the approval of the king and council.(1357)
Towards the end of the following month (29 April) a schedule was drawn up of streets and narrow
passages which it was proposed to enlarge.(1358) For the next few months the authorities were
busy seeing to the clearing and staking out of the various streets.(1359) In September the
Common Council resolved that the new street which it was proposed to make from the Guildhall
to Cheapside should be called King Street, whilst its continuation from Cheapside to the river
should be known as Queen Street.(1360)

(M686)

A fresh distribution of markets and market places was proposed (21 Oct.).(1361) Three markets
and no more were to be allotted for the sale of flesh and other victuals brought into the city
by country butchers and farmers, viz., Leadenhall and the Greenyard for the east end of the
city, Honey Lane for the centre, and a market near Warwick Lane, which was to take the place
of Newgate Market, for the west end. Two places were to be assigned for herb and fruit markets,
viz., the site of the king’s wardrobe (if the king would give his consent) and the ground whereon
recently had stood the church of St. Laurence Pulteney. The markets formerly held in Aldersgate
Street and Gracechurch Street were to be discontinued. A place was to be found at or near Christ
Church as a site for the meat market, hitherto kept in Newgate market. These suggestions were
with slight alteration accepted in the following February (1668), when provision was also made
for a fish market on the site of the ancient stocks and the Woolchurch and churchyard.(1362)
On the 23rd Oct. (1667) the king went in state into the city to lay "the first stone of the
first pillar of the new building of the Exchange."(1363)

(M687)

The impost of twelve pence a chaldron on coals brought into the port of London was soon found
inadequate to meet the expense of re-building the Guildhall, the prisons and other public edifices
of the city, and in 1670 it was raised by statute (22 Car. II, c. 11) to two shillings a chaldron.
Great irregularities, however, were allowed to take place in collecting and accounting for
the duty thus imposed, and between 1667 and 1673 the City was obliged to borrow no less than
£83,000.(1364) In March, 1667, the Court of Aldermen resolved that all fines paid by persons
to be discharged from the office of alderman between that day and Midsummer next should be
devoted to the restoration of the Guildhall and the Justice Hall, Old Bailey.(1365) Not only
money but material also was required to enable the City to carry out its building operations.
To this end a Bill was introduced into parliament to facilitate the City’s manufacture of lime,
brick and tile.(1366) A sub-tenant of the City holding five acres of land in the parish of
St. Giles in the Fields obtained permission from the Court of Aldermen to "digg and cast upp
the said ground for the making of bricke any covenant or clause in the lease of the said ground
to the contrary notwithstanding."(1367) Application was made to Charles for liberty to fetch
Portland stone for the City’s use, but this was refused as the stone was required for works
at Whitehall.(1368)

(M688)

In the meanwhile negotiations for a peace had been opened at Breda. The Londoners more especially
desired peace(1369) in order to devote their energies to re-building their city. In anticipation
of a cessation of hostilities Charles set about discharging his navy, leaving the Thames and
Medway open to attack. The Dutch took advantage of his precipitancy and at once sailed up the
Medway, burnt three men-of-war, among them being the "Loyal London," and carried off a fourth.(1370)
This took place in June (1667). The city never presented so dejected an appearance as on the
arrival of the news of this disgrace. The cry of treason was raised and endeavours made to
fasten the blame upon any one and every one. The Dutch fleet was every hour expected up the
Thames,(1371) and vessels were sunk in the bed of the channel at Barking, Woolwich and Blackwall
to stop its progress. But so great was the confusion that one of the king’s store ships for
victualling the navy is said to have been sunk among the rest, as well as vessels that had
been fitted out as fire-ships at great expense. The Common Council interposed on behalf of
interested owners of merchandise on board the ship "Diana," lying in the Thames, to prevent
if possible the sinking of that vessel.(1372)

(M689)

The Common Council ordered (13 June) every able-bodied man in the city forthwith to enlist,
and resolved to petition the king that the auxiliaries then to be raised might remain as a
guard to the city.(1373) The same day the city’s militia was reviewed by Charles himself on
Tower Hill. He addressed them in a speech assuring them that he would personally share their
danger. But here, too, was confusion and lack of organization.

(M690)

Above all there was a lack of money to pay the seamen. Had the Dutch fleet sailed up the Thames
immediately after its success at Chatham, instead of wasting its time at Portsmouth and Plymouth
and other places on the south coast, matters would have gone hard with the capital. As it was
the delay gave time for recovery from the recent scare and for measures to be taken against
its approach, with the result that after getting up the river as far as Tilbury it was compelled
to retire.(1374)

(M691)

On the morning of the 20th June the Dutch fleet was believed to be sailing homewards, but by
midday news arrived of its appearance off Harwich, which was threatened with an immediate attack.(1375)
The next day (21 June) the mayor and aldermen obeyed a summons to attend upon the king in council,
when, a proposal having been made to fortify Sheerness and other places on the river, they
agreed to raise the sum of £10,000 for the purpose.(1376) That the government should be driven
to borrow so small a sum excited the contempt of Pepys, who thought it "a very poor thing that
we should be induced to borrow by such mean sums." That the City could afford no more is not
surprising when we consider what had been the state of trade during the last three years. As
it was the money was paid by small instalments. The coffers of the city merchant or goldsmith
keeping "running cashes" were well nigh empty, and the credit of some of the best men was shaken.(1377)

(M692)

There was another difficulty besides the want of money. There was a deficiency of workmen to
carry out the works at Sheerness. Application was accordingly made to the wardens of the several
companies of masons and bricklayers to furnish able men so that the fortifications might be
completed before the cold weather came on.(1378)

(M693)

At last negotiations for a peace were concluded and the Treaty of Breda was signed (31 July).
The peace was proclaimed at Temple Bar in the presence of the lord mayor on St. Bartholomew’s
Day (24 Aug.).

The bells were set ringing in honour of the event, but there were no bonfires at night "partly"—writes
Pepys—"from the dearness of firing, but principally from the little content most people have
in the peace." Yet the terms of the treaty were not wholly ruinous to the country. England,
at least, gained New York, hitherto known as New Amsterdam.

(M694)

The lull in the storm afforded the municipal authorities an opportunity of taking stock of
their own Chamber. To this end a committee was appointed on the 12th February, 1668. For nine
months that committee was employed examining the state of the City’s finances, and then had
not finished their task. Nevertheless, on the 23rd November they made a report to the Common
Council of the result of their labours so far as they had gone.(1379) The state of the Chamber,
they said, was so low that it would require the utmost care and industry to restore it and
save it from utter decay and ruin, "for what by misemployment of the treasure in the late troubles
and other ill managements," as well as by extraordinary expenses occasioned by the Plague and
Fire, the City’s debt had still increased notwithstanding its income having been largely augmented
by fines of aldermen and chamber and bridge-house leases, which within the last fifteen years
had exceeded £200,000. It was clear that when these extraordinary accessories to the City’s
income ceased—and they had already begun to decline—the City’s debt would increase and would
indeed become desperate unless some remedy were found. The committee, therefore, made certain
suggestions with the view of cutting down expenses. The City Chronologer,(1380) in the first
place, could be dispensed with altogether. The salary of the City Waits, which had lately been
increased, should be reduced to its former amount. Some saving might be made in allowance of
stationery in the various offices, in expenses attending Courts of Conservancy, in allowance
of boots to City labourers and artificers. The personal expenses of the City’s Remembrancer
for diet, coach hire, boat hire, etc., should be no longer allowed; and the Chamber should
not be called upon to make any disbursement for military purposes beyond the sum of £4,666
13s. 4d., for which the City was yearly liable by Act of Parliament. Lastly, neither the court
of Aldermen nor the court of Common Council ought to have power to draw upon the Chamber for
a sum exceeding £500, except it were in connection with the re-building of the Guildhall and
other specified objects. These and other recommendations of the committee, being carefully
considered by the court, were for the most part accepted with certain amendments.

(M695)

On the other hand there was due to the city’s Chamber no less a sum than £77,409 6s. 6d. for
principal and interest on former loans to the king. This sum Alderman Backwell undertook himself
to pay to the City, accepting a transfer of the Treasury Bills in the hands of the City Chamberlain.
The Common Council was only too ready to accept the offer.(1381) Edward Backwell, alderman
of Bishopsgate Ward, was one of those city princes whose wealth brought them into close relation
with the Crown. A goldsmith by trade, he, like others of his class, took to keeping "running
cashes" and transacting generally the business of a banker at his house known as the "Unicorn"
in Lombard Street. Pepys mentions him frequently in his Diary. In the days of the Commonwealth
he was paymaster of the garrison at Dunkirk, and continued to act as financial agent in all
matters connected with that town until it was sold to the French king. His house in Lombard
Street having perished in the Great Fire, he was, by the king’s special command, accommodated
with lodgings in Gresham College, in order that his business relations with the king might
not be interrupted pending the re-building of his premises.(1382)

(M696)

