There are certain industrial and ethical results from this preoccupation with clothes which
should not be overlooked, particularly the indifference to quality which it has engendered.
The very heart of the question of clothes of the American woman is imitation. That is, we are
not engaged in an effort to work out individuality. We are not engaged in an effort to find
costumes which by their expression of the taste and the spirit of this people can be fixed
upon as appropriate American costumes, something of our own. From top to bottom we are copying.
The woman of wealth goes to Paris and Vienna for the real masterpieces in a season's wardrobe.
The great dressmakers and milliners go to the same cities for their models. Those who cannot
go abroad to seek inspiration and ideas copy those who have gone or the fashion plates they
import. The French or Viennese mode, started on upper Fifth Avenue, spreads to 23d St., from
23d St. to 14th St., from 14th St. to Grand and Canal. Each move sees it reproduced in materials
a little less elegant and durable, its colors a trifle vulgarized, its ornaments cheapened,
its laces poorer. By the time it reaches Grand Street the $400 gown in brocaded velvet from
the best looms in Europe has become a cotton velvet from Lawrence or Fall River, decorated
with mercerized lace and glass ornaments from Rhode Island! A travesty--and yet a recognizable
travesty. The East Side hovers over it as Fifth Avenue has done over the original. The very
shop window, where it is displayed, is dressed and painted and lighted in imitation of the
uptown shop. The same process goes on inland. This same gown will travel its downward path
from New York westward, until the Grand St. creation arrives in some cheap and gay mining or
factory town. From start to finish it is imitation, and on this imitation vast industries are
built--imitations of silk, of velvet, of lace, of jewels.

These imitations, cheap as they are, are a far greater extravagance, for their buyers, than
the original model was for its buyer, for the latter came from that class where money does
not count--while the former is of a class where every penny counts. The pity of it is that
the young girls, who put all that they earn into elaborate lingerie at seventy-nine cents a
set (the original model probably sold at $50 or $100), into open-work hose at twenty-five cents
a pair (the original $10 a pair), into willow plumes at $1.19 (the original sold at $50), never
have a durable or suitable garment. They are bravely ornamented, but never properly clothed.
Moreover, they are brave but for a day. Their purchases have no goodness in them; they tear,
grow rusty, fall to pieces with the first few wearings, and the poor little victims are shabby
and bedraggled often before they have paid for their belongings, for many of these things are
bought on the installment plan, particularly hats and gowns. Under these circumstances, it
is little wonder that one hears, often and often among their class, the bitter cry, "Gee, but
it's hell to be poor!"--that one finds so often assigned by a girl as the cause of her downfall,
the natural reason--"Wanted to dress like other girls"--"Wanted pretty clothes."

This habit of buying poor imitations does not end in the girl's life with her clothes. When
she marries, she carries it into her home. Decoration, not furnishing, is the keynote of all
she touches. It is she who is the best patron of the elaborate and monstrous cheap furniture,
rugs, draperies, crockery, bric-a-brac, which fill the shops of the cheaper quarters of the
great cities, and usually all quarters of the newer inland towns.

Has all this no relation to national prosperity--to the cost of living? The effect on the victim's
personal budget is clear--the effect it has on the family budget, which it dominates, is clear.
In both cases nothing of permanent value is acquired. The good linen undergarments, the "all
wool" gown, the broadcloth cape or coat, those standard garments which the thrifty once acquired
and cherished, only awaken the mirth of the pretty little spendthrift on $8 a week. Solid pieces
of furniture such as often dignify even the huts of European peasants and are passed down from
mother to daughter for generations--are objects of contempt by the younger generation here.
Even the daughters of good old New England farmers are found to-day glad to exchange mahogany
for quartered oak and English pewter for pressed glass and stamped crockery. True, another
generation may come in and buy it all back at fabulous prices, but the waste of it!

This production of shoddy cloth, cotton laces, cheap furniture, what is it but waste! Waste
of labor and material! Time and money and strength which might have been turned to producing
things of permanent values, have been spent in things which have no goodness in them, things
which because of their lack of integrity and soundness must be forever duplicated, instead
of freeing industry to go ahead, producing other good and permanent things.

What it all amounts to is that the instinct for ornament has gotten the upper hand of a great
body of American women. We have failed so far to develop standards of taste, fitness, and quality,
strong, sure, and good enough effectually to impose themselves. There is no national taste
in dress; there is only admirable skill in adapting fashions made in other countries. There
is no national sense of restraint and proportion. It is pretty generally agreed that getting
all you can is entirely justifiable. There is no national sense of quality; even the rich to-day
in this country wear imitation laces. The effect of all this is a bewildering restlessness
in costume--a sheeplike willingness to follow to the extreme the grotesque and the fantastic.
The very general adoption of the ugly and meaningless fashions of the last few years--peach-basket
hats, hobble skirts, slippers for the street--is a case in point. From every side this is bad--defeating
its own purpose--corrupting national taste and wasting national substance.

Moreover, the false standard it sets up socially is intolerable. It sounds fantastic to say
that whole bodies of women place their chief reliance for social advancement on dress, but
it is true. They are, or are not, as they are gowned! The worst of this fantasy is not only
that it forces too much attention from useful women, but that it gives such poise and assurance
to the ignorant and useless! If you look like the women of a set, you are as "good" as they,
is the democratic standard of many a young woman. If for any reason she is not able to produce
this effect, she shrinks from contact, whatever her talent or charm! And she is often not altogether
wrong in thinking she will not be welcome if her dress is not that of the circle to which she
aspires. Many a woman indifferently gowned has been made to feel her difference from the elegant
she found herself among. If she is sure of herself and has a sense of humor, this may be an
amusing experience. To many, however, it is an embittering one!

Now these observations are not presented as discoveries! They were true, at least, as far back
as the Greeks. In fact, there is nothing in the so-called woman's movement, which in its essence
did not exist then. The stream of human aspirations, with its stretches of wisdom and of folly,
has flowed steadily through the ages, and on its troubled surface men and women have always
struggled together as they are struggling to-day. These little comments simply seem to the
writer worth making because for the moment the truths behind them are not getting as much attention
as they deserve. Certainly the tyranny dress exercises over the woman in this American democracy
is an old enough theme. Indeed, it has always formed a part of her program of emancipation.
Out of her revolt against its absurdities has come the most definite development in American
costume which we have had, and that is the sensible street costume, which in spite of efforts
to distort and displace it, a woman still may wear without differentiating herself from her
fellows.

The short skirt and jacket, the shirt waist and stout boots, a woman is allowed to-day, are
among the good things which the Woman's Rights movement of the 40's and 50's helped secure
for us. When those able leaders made their attack on man, demanding that the world in which
he moved be opened to them, they were quick enough to see that if they succeeded in their undertaking
they would be hampered by their clothes. They revolted! True, they did not voice this revolt
in their historic list of "injuries and usurpations on the part of man toward woman." They
did not say, "He has compelled her to hamper herself with skirts and stays, to decorate her
head with rats and puffs, to paint her face with poisonous compounds, to walk the street in
footwear which is neither suitable nor comfortable!"

This statement, however, would have had the same quality of truth as several which were included
in the "List of Grievances"; the same as the declaration: "He has compelled her to submit to
laws in the formation of which she has had no voice," or, "He has denied her the facilities
for obtaining a thorough education, all colleges being closed against her."

Dress reformers were admitted to the ranks of the agitators. The initial revolt was thoroughgoing.
They discarded the corset, discarded it when it was still improper to speak the word! They
cut off their hair, cut it off in a day when every woman owned a chignon. They discarded the
corset, cut off their hair, and adopted bloomers!

The story of the bloomer is piquant. It was launched and worn. It became the subject of platform
oratory and had its organ. Why is it not worn to-day? No woman who has ever masqueraded in
man's dress or donned it for climbing will ever forget the freedom of it. Yet the only woman
in the Christian world who ever wore it at once naturally and with that touch of coquetry which
is necessary to carry it off, as far as this writer's personal observation goes, was Madame
Dieulafoy, and Madame Dieulafoy was protected by the French government and an exclusive circle.

Bloomers proved too much for even the courage of dear Miss Anthony. For two years she wore
them, and then with tears and lamentations resigned them. In that resignation Miss Anthony
paid tribute, unconsciously no doubt, to something deeper than she ever grasped in the woman
question. Her valiant soul met its master in her own nature, but she did not recognize it.
She abandoned her convenient and becoming costume because of prejudice, she said. What other
prejudice ever dismayed her! She thrived on fighting them; she met her woman's soul, and did
not know it!

But from the experiments and blunders and travail of some of these noble and early militants
over the dress question, has come, as I have said, our present useful, and probably permanent
type of street suit. In this particular the American woman has achieved a genuine democratization
of her clothes. The experience of the last two years--fashion's open attempt to make the walking
suit useless by tightening the skirts, and bizarre by elaborate decorations, has in the main
failed. Here, then, is a standard established, and established on one of the great principles
of sensible clothing, and that is fitness. It shows that the true attack on the tyranny and
corruption of clothes lies in the establishment of principles.

These principles are, briefly:--

The fitness of dress depends upon the occasion.

The beauty of dress depends upon line and color.

The ethics of dress depends upon quality and the relation of cost to one's means.

In time we may get into the heads of all women, rich and poor, that an open-work stocking and
low shoe for winter street wear are as unfit as they all concede a trailing skirt to be. In
time we may even hope to train the eye until it recognizes the difference between a beautiful
and a grotesque form, between a flowing and a jagged line. In time we may restore the sense
of quality, which our grandmothers certainly had, and which almost every European peasant brings
with her to this country.

These principles are teachable things. Let her once grasp them and the vagaries of style will
become as distasteful as poor drawing does to one whose eye has learned what is correct, as
lying is to one who has cultivated the taste for the truth.

Martha Berry tells of an illuminating experience in her school of Southern mountain girls.
She had taken great pains to teach them correct standards and principles of dress. She had
been careful to see that simplicity and quality and fitness were all that they saw in the dress
of their teachers. Then one day they had visitors, fashionable visitors, in hobble skirts and
strange hats and jingling with many ornaments. They were good and interesting women, and they
talked sympathetically and well to the girls. Miss Berry was crushed. "What will the girls
think of my teachings?" she asked herself. "They will believe I do not know." But that night
one of her assistants said to her: "I have just overheard the girls discussing our visitors.
They liked them so much, but they are saying that it is such a pity that they could not have
had you to teach them how to dress."

As a method of education, instruction in the principles of dress is admirable for a girl. Through
it she can be made to grasp the truth which women so generally suspect to-day; that is, the
importance of the common and universal things of life; the fact that all these everyday processes
are the expressions of the great underlying truths of life. A girl can be taught, too, through
this matter of dress, as directly perhaps as through anything that concerns her, the importance
of studying human follies! Follies grow out of powerful human instincts, ineradicable elements
of human nature. They would not exist if there were not at the bottom of them some impulse
of nature, right and beautiful and essential. The folly of woman's dress lies not in her instinct
to make herself beautiful, it lies in her ignorance of the principles of beauty, of the intimate
and essential connection between utility and beauty. It lies in the pitiful assumption that
she can achieve her end by imitation, that she can be the thing she envies if she look like
that thing.

The matter of dress is the more important, because bound up with it is a whole grist of social
and economic problems. It is part and parcel of the problem of the cost of living, of woman's
wages, of wasteful industries, of the social evil itself. It is a woman's most direct weapon
against industrial abuses, her all-powerful weapon as a consumer. At the time of the Lawrence
strike, Miss Vida Scudder, of Wellesley College, is reported to have said in a talk to a group
of women citizens in Lawrence:--

"I speak for thousands besides myself when I say that I would rather never again wear a thread
of woolen than know my garments had been woven at the cost of such misery as I have seen and
known, past the shadow of a doubt, to have existed in this town."

Miss Scudder might have been more emphatic and still have been entirely within the limit of
plain obligation; she might have said, "I will never again wear a thread of woolen woven at
the cost of such misery as exists in this town." Women will not be doing their duty, as citizens
in this country, until they recognize fully the obligations laid upon them by their control
of consumption.

The very heart of the question of the dress is, then, economic and social. It is one of those
great everyday matters on which the moral and physical well-being of society rests. One of
those matters, which, rightly understood, fill the everyday life with big meanings, show it
related to every great movement for the betterment of man.

Like all of the great interests in the Business of Being a Woman, it is primarily an individual
problem, and every woman who solves it for herself, that is, arrives at what may be called
a sound mode of dress, makes a real contribution to society. There is a tendency to overlook
the value of the individual solution of the problems of life, and yet, the successful individual
solution is perhaps the most genuine and fundamental contribution a man or woman can make.
The end of living is a life--fair, sound, sweet, complete. The vast machinery of life to which
we give so much attention, our governments and societies, our politics and wrangling, is nothing
in itself. It is only a series of contrivances to insure the chance to grow a life. He who
proves that he can conquer his conditions, can adjust himself to the machinery in which he
finds himself, he is the most genuine of social servants. He realizes the thing for which we
talk and scheme, and so proves that our dreams are not vain!

CHAPTER VI

THE WOMAN AND DEMOCRACY

The one notion that democracy has succeeded in planting firmly in the mind of the average American
citizen is his right and duty to rise in the world. Tested by this conception the American
woman is an ideal democrat. Give her a ghost of a chance and she almost never fails to better
herself materially and socially. Nor can she be said to do it by the clumsy methods we describe
as "pushing." She does it by a legitimate, if rather literal, application of the national formula
for rising,--get schooling and get money.

The average American man reverses the order of the terms in the formula. He believes more in
money. The time that boys and girls are kept in school after the fourteen-or sixteen-year-age
limit is generally due to the insistence of the mother, her confidence that the more education,
the better the life chance. What it amounts to is that the man has more faith in life as a
teacher, the woman more faith in schools. Both, however, seek the same goal, pin their faith
to the same tools. Both take it for granted that if they work out the formulas, they thereby
earn and will receive letters patent to the aristocracy of the democracy!

The weakness of this popular conception of the democratic scheme is that it gives too much
attention to what a man gets and too little to what he gives. Democracy more than any other
scheme under which men have tried to live together depends on what each returns--returns not
in material but in spiritual things. Democracy is not a shelter, a garment, a cash account;
it is a spirit. The real test of its followers must be sought in their attitude of mind toward
life, labor, and their fellows.

Where does the average American woman come out in applying this test? Take her attitude toward
labor,--where does it place her? Labor according to democracy is a badge of respectability.
You cannot poach or sponge in a democracy; if you do, you violate the fundamental right of
the other man. You cannot ask him to help support you by indirect or concealed devices; if
you do, you are hampering the free opportunity the scheme promises him.

Moreover, the kind of work you do must not demean you. Nothing useful is menial. It is in the
quality of the work and the spirit you give it that the test lies. Poor work brings disrespect
and so hurts not only you but the whole mass. Contempt for a task violates the principle because
it is contempt for a thing which the system recognizes as useful. Classification based on tasks
falls down in a democracy. A poor lawyer falls below a good clerk, a poor teacher below a good
housemaid, since one renders a sound and the other an unsound service.

Now this ideal of labor it was for the woman to work out in the household. To do this she must
reconstruct the ideas to which she and all her society had been trained. In the nature of the
task there could be no rules for it. It could be accomplished only by creating in the household
a genuine democratic spirit. This meant that she must bring herself to look upon domestic service
as a dignified employment in no way demeaning the person who performed it. Quite as difficult,
she must infuse into those who performed the labor of the household respect and pride in their
service.

What has happened? Has the woman democratized the department of labor she controls? If we are
to measure her understanding of the system under which she lives by what she has done with
her own particular labor problem, we must set her down as a poor enough democrat. This great
department of national activity is generally (though by no means universally) in a poorer estate
to-day than ever before in the history of the country; that is, tested by the ideals of labor
toward which we are supposed to be working, it shows less progress.

Instead of being dignified, it has been demeaned. No other honest work in the country so belittles
a woman socially as housework performed for money. It is the only field of labor which has
scarcely felt the touch of the modern labor movement; the only one where the hours, conditions,
and wages are not being attacked generally; the only one in which there is no organization
or standardization, no training, no regular road of progress. It is the only field of labor
in which there seems to be a general tendency to abandon the democratic notion and return frankly
to the standards of the aristocratic régime. The multiplication of livery, the tipping system,
the terms of address, all show an increasing imitation of the old world's methods. Unhappily
enough, they are used with little or none of the old world's ease. Being imitations and not
natural growths, they, of course, cannot be.

More serious still is the relation which has been shown to exist between criminality and household
occupations. Nothing, indeed, which recent investigation has established ought to startle the
American woman more. Contrary to public opinion, it is not the factory and shop which are making
the greatest number of women offenders of all kinds; it is the household. In a recent careful
study of over 3000 women criminals, the Bureau of Labor found that 80 per cent came directly
from their own homes or from the traditional pursuits of women![2]

The anomaly is the more painful because women are so active in trying to better the conditions
in trades which men control. Feminine circles everywhere have been convulsed with sympathy
for shop and factory girls. Intelligent and persistent efforts are making to reach and aid
them. This is, of course, right, and it would be a national calamity if such organizations
as the Woman's Trade Union League and the Consumer's League should lose anything of their vigor.
But the need of the classes they reach is really less than the need of household workers. In
the first place, the number affected is far less.

It is customary, in presenting the case of the shop and factory girl, to speak of them as "an
army 7,000,000 strong." It is a misleading exaggeration. The whole number of American women
and girls over ten years of age earning their living wholly or partially is about 7,000,000.[3]
Of this number from 20 per cent to 25 per cent belong to the "army" in shops and factories;
moreover, a goodly percentage of this proportion are accountants, bookkeepers, and stenographers,--a
class which on the whole may be said to be able to look after its own needs. The number in
domestic service is nearly twice as great, something like 40 per cent of the 7,000,000.

There are almost as many dressmakers, milliners, and seamstresses as there are factory operators
in this 7,000,000. There are nearly twice as many earning their living in dairies, greenhouses,
and gardens as there are in shops and offices.

The greater number in domestic service is not what gives this class its greater importance.
Its chief importance comes from the fact that it is in a permanent woman's employment; that
is, the household worker becomes on marriage a housekeeper and in this country frequently an
employer of labor. The intelligence and the ideals which she will give to her homemaking will
depend almost entirely on what she has seen in the houses where she has worked; that is, our
domestic service is self-perpetuating, and upon it American homes are in great numbers being
annually founded. In sharp contrast to this permanent character of housework is the transientness
of factory and shop work. The average period which a girl gives to this kind of labor is probably
less than five years. What she learns has little or no relation to her future as a housekeeper--indeed,
the tendency is rather to unfit than to fit her for a home.

But why is the American woman not stirred by these facts? Why does she not recognize their
meaning and grapple with her labor problem? It is certain that at the beginning of the republic
she did have a pretty clear idea of the kind of household revolution the country needed. Our
great-grandmothers, that is, the serious ones among them, made a brave dash at it. There is
no family, at least of New England tradition, who does not know the methods they adopted. They
changed the nomenclature. There were to be no more "servants"--we were to have helpers. There
were to be no divisions in the household. The helper was to sit at the table, at the fireside.
(They thought to change the nature of a relation as old as the world by changing its name and
form.) It was like the French Revolutionists' attempt to make a patriot by taking away his
ruffles and shoe buckles and calling him "citizen"!

Of course it failed. The family meal, the fireside hour, are personal and private institutions
in a home. Much of the success of the family in building up an intimate comradeship depends
upon preserving them. We admit friends to them as a proof of affection, strangers as a proof
of our regard. The notion that those who come into a household solely to aid in its labor should
be admitted into personal relations which depend for their life upon privacy and affection,
was always fantastic. It could not endure, because it violated something as important as the
dignity of labor, and that was the sacredness of personal privacy. Moreover, it was bound to
fail because it made the dignity of labor depend on artificial things--such as the name by
which one is called, the place where one sits.

The good sense of the country might very well have regulated whatever was artificial in the
attempt, if it had not been for the crushing interference of slavery. In the South all service
was performed by slaves. In many parts of the North, at the founding of the republic, in Connecticut,
in New York, New Jersey, slaves were held. It was practically impossible to work out a democratic
system of domestic service side by side with this institution.

Slavery passed, but we were impeded by the fact that, liberated, the slave was still a slave
in spirit and that his employer, North and South, was still an aristocrat in her treatment
of him. With this situation to cope with, the woman's labor problem was still further complicated
by immigration.

For years we have been overrun by thousands of untrained girls who are probably to be heads
of American homes and mothers of American citizens. Most of them are of good, healthy, honest,
industrious stock, but they are ignorant of our ways and ideas. The natural place for these
girls to get their initiation into American democracy is in the American household. The duty
of American women toward these foreign girls is plainly to help them understand our ideals.
The difficulty of this is apparent; but the failure to accomplish it has been due less to its
difficulty than to the fact that not one woman in a thousand has recognized that she has an
obligation to make a fit citizen of the girl who comes into her home.

Generally speaking, the foreign servant girl has been exploited in this country almost if not
quite as ruthlessly and unintelligently as the foreign factory girl and the foreign steel mill
worker. Domestic service, which ought to be the best school for the newcomer, has become the
worst; exploited, she learns to exploit; suspected, she learns to suspect. The result has been
that the girl has soon acquired a confused and grotesque notion of her place. She soon becomes
insolent and dissatisfied, grows more and more indifferent to the quality of her work and to
the cultivation of right relations.

What we have lost in our treatment of the immigrant women can never be regained. We forget
that almost invariably these girls have the habit of thrift. They have never known anything
else. Thrift as a principle is ingrained in them. But the American household is notoriously
thriftless. As a rule it destroys the quality in the untrained immigrant girl. It is American
not to care for expense--and she accepts the method--as far as her mistress' goods are concerned--if
not her own.

The general stupid assumption that because the immigrant girl does not know our ways she knows
nothing, has deprived us of much that she might have contributed to our domestic arts and sciences.
It is with her as it is with any newcomer in a strange land of strange tongue--she is shy,
dreads ridicule. Instead of encouraging her to preserve and develop that which she has learned
at home, we drive her to abandon it by our ignorant assumption that she knows nothing worth
our learning. The case of peasant handicraft is in point. It is only recently that we have
begun to realize that most women immigrants know some kind of beautiful handicraft which they
have entirely dropped for fear of being laughed at.

A very frequent excuse for the lack of pains that the average woman gives to the training of
the raw girl is that she marries as soon as she becomes useful. But is it not part of the woman's
business in this democracy to help the newcomer to an independent position? Is it not part
of her business to help settle her servants in matrimony? Certainly any large and serious conception
of her business must include this obligation.

It is the failure to recognize opportunities for public service of this kind that makes the
woman say her life is narrow. It is parallel to her failure to understand the relation of household
economy to national economy. She seems to lack the imagination to relate her problem to the
whole problem. She will read books and follow lecture courses on Labor and come home to resent
the narrowness of her life, unconscious that she personally has the labor problem on her own
hands and that her failure to see that fact is complicating daily the problems of the nation.
It is the old false idea that the interesting and important thing is somewhere else--never
at home--while the truth is that the only interesting and important thing for any one of us
is in mastering our own particular situation,--moreover, the only real contribution we ever
make comes in doing that.

The failure to dignify and professionalize household labor is particularly hard on the unskilled
girl of little education who respects herself, has pretty clear ideas of her "rights" under
our system of government, and who expects to make something of herself. There are tens of thousands
of such in the country; very many of them realize clearly the many advantages of household
labor. They know that it ought to be more healthful, is better paid, is more interesting because
more varied. They see its logical relation to the future to which they look forward.

But such a girl feels keenly the cost to herself of undertaking what she instinctively feels
ought to be for her the better task. She knows the standards and conditions are a matter of
chance; that, while she may receive considerate treatment in one place, in another there will
be no apparent consciousness that she is a human being. She knows and dreads the loneliness
of the average "place." "It's breaking my heart I was," sobbed an intelligent Irish girl, serving
a term for drunkenness begun in the kitchen, "alone all day long with never a one to pass a
good word." She finds herself cut off from most of the benefits which are provided for other
wage-earning girls. She finds girls' clubhouses generally are closed to her. She is the pariah
among workers.

What is there for this girl but the factory or the shop? Yet her presence there is a disaster
for the whole labor system, for she is a cheap laborer--cheap not because she is a poor laborer--she
is not; generally she is an admirable one--quick to learn, faithful to discharge. Her weakness
in trade is that she is a transient who takes no interest in fitting herself for an advanced
position. The demonstration of this statement is found in a town like Fall River, where the
admirable textile school has only a rare woman student, although boys and men tax its capacity.
There is no object for the average girl to take the training. She looks forward to a different
life. The working girl has still to be convinced of the "aristocracy of celibacy"!

No more difficult or important undertaking awaits the American woman than to accept the challenge
to democratize her own special field of labor. It is in doing this that she is going to make
her chief contribution to solving the problem of woman in industry. It is in doing this that
she is going to learn the meaning of democracy. It is an undertaking in which every woman has
a direct individual part--just as every man has a direct part in the democratization of public
life.

Individual effort aside, though it is the most fundamental, she has various special channels
of power through which she can work--her clubs, for instance. If the vast machinery of the
Federation of Woman's Clubs could be turned to this problem of the democratization of domestic
service, what an awakening might we not hope for! Yet it is doubtful if it will be through
the trained woman's organizations that the needed revolution will come. It will come, as always,
from the ranks of the workers.

Already there are signs that the woman's labor organizations are willing to recognize the inherent
dignity of household service. And this is as it should be. The woman who labors should be the
one to recognize that all labor is per se equally honorable--that there is no stigma in any
honestly performed, useful service. If she is to bring to the labor world the regeneration
she dreams, she must begin not by saying that the shop girl, the clerk, the teacher, are in
a higher class than the cook, the waitress, the maid, but that we are all laborers alike, sisters
by virtue of the service we are rendering society. That is, labor should be the last to recognize
the canker of caste.[4]

FOOTNOTES:

  [2] Report on Condition of Woman and Child Wage Earners in the
  United States, Vol. XV. Relation between Occupation and
  Criminality of Women. 1911.

