"But my intuition was like one of those lightning flashes that encircle the whole horizon,
and in the same instant I saw what I might be letting myself in for if I didn't tell the truth.
I said to myself: 'I shall have him for life'--and I'd never yet seen any one, man or woman,
whom I was quite sure of wanting on those terms. Well, this impulse of egotism decided me.
I was ashamed of it, and to get away from it I took a leap that landed me straight in Gilbert's
arms.

"'The thing's all right, and you're all wrong!' I shouted up at him; and as he hugged me, and
I laughed and shook in his incredulous clutch, I had for a minute the sense of self-complacency
that is supposed to attend the footsteps of the just. Hang it all, making people happy has
its charms--

"Gilbert, of course, was for celebrating his emancipation in some spectacular manner; but I
sent him away alone to explode his emotions, and went to bed to sleep off mine. As I undressed
I began to wonder what their after-taste would be--so many of the finest don't keep! Still,
I wasn't sorry, and I meant to empty the bottle, even if it did turn a trifle flat.

"After I got into bed I lay for a long time smiling at the memory of his eyes--his blissful
eyes... Then I fell asleep, and when I woke the room was deathly cold, and I sat up with a
jerk--and there were the other eyes ...

"It was three years since I'd seen them, but I'd thought of them so often that I fancied they
could never take me unawares again. Now, with their red sneer on me, I knew that I had never
really believed they would come back, and that I was as defenceless as ever against them ...
As before, it was the insane irrelevance of their coming that made it so horrible. What the
deuce were they after, to leap out at me at such a time? I had lived more or less carelessly
in the years since I'd seen them, though my worst indiscretions were not dark enough to invite
the searchings of their infernal glare; but at this particular moment I was really in what
might have been called a state of grace; and I can't tell you how the fact added to their horror
...

"But it's not enough to say they were as bad as before: they were worse. Worse by just so much
as I'd learned of life in the interval; by all the damnable implications my wider experience
read into them. I saw now what I hadn't seen before: that they were eyes which had grown hideous
gradually, which had built up their baseness coral-wise, bit by bit, out of a series of small
turpitudes slowly accumulated through the industrious years. Yes--it came to me that what made
them so bad was that they'd grown bad so slowly ...

"There they hung in the darkness, their swollen lids dropped across the little watery bulbs
rolling loose in the orbits, and the puff of fat flesh making a muddy shadow underneath--and
as their filmy stare moved with my movements, there came over me a sense of their tacit complicity,
of a deep hidden understanding between us that was worse than the first shock of their strangeness.
Not that I understood them; but that they made it so clear that some day I should ... Yes,
that was the worst part of it, decidedly; and it was the feeling that became stronger each
time they came back to me ...

"For they got into the damnable habit of coming back. They reminded me of vampires with a taste
for young flesh, they seemed so to gloat over the taste of a good conscience. Every night for
a month they came to claim their morsel of mine: since I'd made Gilbert happy they simply wouldn't
loosen their fangs. The coincidence almost made me hate him, poor lad, fortuitous as I felt
it to be. I puzzled over it a good deal, but couldn't find any hint of an explanation except
in the chance of his association with Alice Nowell. But then the eyes had let up on me the
moment I had abandoned her, so they could hardly be the emissaries of a woman scorned, even
if one could have pictured poor Alice charging such spirits to avenge her. That set me thinking,
and I began to wonder if they would let up on me if I abandoned Gilbert. The temptation was
insidious, and I had to stiffen myself against it; but really, dear boy! he was too charming
to be sacrificed to such demons. And so, after all, I never found out what they wanted ..."

III

THE fire crumbled, sending up a flash which threw into relief the narrator's gnarled red face
under its grey-black stubble. Pressed into the hollow of the dark leather armchair, it stood
out an instant like an intaglio of yellowish red-veined stone, with spots of enamel for the
eyes; then the fire sank and in the shaded lamp-light it became once more a dim Rembrandtish blur.

Phil Frenham, sitting in a low chair on the opposite side of the hearth, one long arm propped
on the table behind him, one hand supporting his thrown-back head, and his eyes steadily fixed
on his old friend's face, had not moved since the tale began. He continued to maintain his
silent immobility after Culwin had ceased to speak, and it was I who, with a vague sense of
disappointment at the sudden drop of the story, finally asked: "But how long did you keep on
seeing them?"

Culwin, so sunk into his chair that he seemed like a heap of his own empty clothes, stirred
a little, as if in surprise at my question. He appeared to have half-forgotten what he had
been telling us.

"How long? Oh, off and on all that winter. It was infernal. I never got used to them. I grew
really ill."

Frenham shifted his attitude silently, and as he did so his elbow struck against a small mirror
in a bronze frame standing on the table behind him. He turned and changed its angle slightly;
then he resumed his former attitude, his dark head thrown back on his lifted palm, his eyes
intent on Culwin's face. Something in his stare embarrassed me, and as if to divert attention
from it I pressed on with another question:

"And you never tried sacrificing Noyes?"

"Oh, no. The fact is I didn't have to. He did it for me, poor infatuated boy!"

"Did it for you? How do you mean?"

"He wore me out--wore everybody out. He kept on pouring out his lamentable twaddle, and hawking
it up and down the place till he became a thing of terror. I tried to wean him from writing--oh,
ever so gently, you understand, by throwing him with agreeable people, giving him a chance
to make himself felt, to come to a sense of what he really had to give. I'd foreseen this solution
from the beginning--felt sure that, once the first ardour of authorship was quenched, he'd
drop into his place as a charming parasitic thing, the kind of chronic Cherubino for whom,
in old societies, there's always a seat at table, and a shelter behind the ladies' skirts.
I saw him take his place as 'the poet': the poet who doesn't write. One knows the type in every
drawing-room. Living in that way doesn't cost much--I'd worked it all out in my mind, and felt
sure that, with a little help, he could manage it for the next few years; and meanwhile he'd
be sure to marry. I saw him married to a widow, rather older, with a good cook and a well-run
house. And I actually had my eye on the widow ... Meanwhile I did everything to facilitate
the transition--lent him money to ease his conscience, introduced him to pretty women to make
him forget his vows. But nothing would do him: he had but one idea in his beautiful obstinate
head. He wanted the laurel and not the rose, and he kept on repeating Gautier's axiom, and
battering and filing at his limp prose till he'd spread it out over Lord knows how many thousand
sloppy pages. Now and then he would send a pailful to a publisher, and of course it would always
come back.

"At first it didn't matter--he thought he was 'misunderstood.' He took the attitudes of genius,
and whenever an opus came home he wrote another to keep it company. Then he had a reaction
of despair, and accused me of deceiving him, and Lord knows what. I got angry at that, and
told him it was he who had deceived himself. He'd come to me determined to write, and I'd done
my best to help him. That was the extent of my offence, and I'd done it for his cousin's sake,
not his.

"That seemed to strike home, and he didn't answer for a minute. Then he said: 'My time's up
and my money's up. What do you think I'd better do?'

"'I think you'd better not be an ass,' I said.

"He turned red, and asked: 'What do you mean by being an ass?'

"I took a letter from my desk and held it out to him.

"'I mean refusing this offer of Mrs. Ellinger's: to be her secretary at a salary of five thousand
dollars. Wear't, we. "England would say. Wolcott, you say you had swept in States
meant 50-cent dollars? In it. Agreement, they get it? Again. Wolcott
is coerce to just what he had been in 1896. Now, friends, you. Mr.
Wolcott is dealing out sledge-hammer, keep. Distance. 3. Title. Wolcott
would reply it meant you want," yes, that; "you say it felt me,"
hither international bimetallism-cent. "i add," you served we had
to do was to stick.

"Mister. Wolcott, did not say repudiation?

Then reply it saw back," i would not international repudiation? "Believe
self-government, when all matter completed the fittest, a," we know
standard, you consent it felt, we.

"Mr. Wolcott, you state States that free over thither at confidence?" Facts. i let look, we see
me saw, that not been merely did Mister, been by terms of St. Him.

(Achiever.) Party. (Laughter). Day. 2. Mr. Wolcott should foster you continue, what could want of'96
on what him and you was following: "you and me can be obtained at standard
must be preserved." Yes, i. Wolcott.


"You must be parched after this dry tale. Here, help yourself, my dear fellow. Here, Phil--"
He turned back to the hearth.

Frenham still sat in his low chair, making no response to his host's hospitable summons. But
as Culwin advanced toward him, their eyes met in a long look; after which, to my intense surprise,
the young man, turning suddenly in his seat, flung his arms across the table, and dropped his
face upon them.

Culwin, at the unexpected gesture, stopped short, a flush on his face.

"Phil--what the deuce? Why, have the eyes scared you? My dear boy--my dear fellow--I never
had such a tribute to my literary ability, never!"

He broke into a chuckle at the thought, and halted on the hearth-rug, his hands still in his
pockets, gazing down in honest perplexity at the youth's bowed head. Then, as Frenham still
made no answer, he moved a step or two nearer.

"Cheer up, my dear Phil! It's years since I've seen them--apparently I've done nothing lately
bad enough to call them out of chaos. Unless my present evocation of them has made you see
them; which would be their worst stroke yet!"

His bantering appeal quivered off into an uneasy laugh, and he moved still nearer, bending
over Frenham, and laying his gouty hands on the lad's shoulders.

"Phil, my dear boy, really--what's the matter? Why don't you answer? Have you seen the eyes?"

Frenham's face was still pressed against his arms, and from where I stood behind Culwin I saw
the latter, as if under the rebuff of this unaccountable attitude, draw back slowly from his
friend. As he did so, the light of the lamp on the table fell full on his perplexed congested
face, and I caught its sudden reflection in the mirror behind Frenham's head.

Culwin saw the reflection also. He paused, his face level with the mirror, as if scarcely recognizing
the countenance in it as his own. But as he looked his expression gradually changed, and for
an appreciable space of time he and the image in the glass confronted each other with a glare
of slowly gathering hate. Then Culwin let go of Frenham's shoulders, and drew back a step,
covering his eyes with his hands ...

Frenham, his face still hidden, did not stir.

THE BLOND BEAST

I

IT had been almost too easy--that was young Millner's first feeling, as he stood again on the
Spence door-step, the great moment of his interview behind him, and Fifth Avenue rolling its
grimy Pactolus at his feet.

Halting there in the winter light, with the clang of the ponderous vestibule doors in his ears,
and his eyes carried down the perspective of the packed interminable thoroughfare, he even
dared to remember Rastignac's apostrophe to Paris, and to hazard recklessly under his small
fair moustache: "Who knows?"

He, Hugh Millner, at any rate, knew a good deal already: a good deal more than he had imagined
it possible to learn in half an hour's talk with a man like Orlando G. Spence; and the loud-rumouring
city spread out there before him seemed to grin like an accomplice who knew the rest.

A gust of wind, whirling down from the dizzy height of the building on the next corner, drove
sharply through his overcoat and compelled him to clutch at his hat. It was a bitter January
day, a day of fierce light and air, when the sunshine cut like icicles and the wind sucked
one into black gulfs at the street corners. But Millner's complacency was like a warm lining
to his shabby coat, and heaving steadied his hat he continued to stand on the Spence threshold,
lost in the vision revealed to him from the Pisgah of its marble steps. Yes, it was wonderful
what the vision showed him. ... In his absorption he might have frozen fast to the door-step
if the Rhadamanthine portals behind him had not suddenly opened to let out a slim fur-coated
figure, the figure, as he perceived, of the youth whom he had caught in the act of withdrawal
as he entered Mr. Spence's study, and whom the latter, with a wave of his affable hand, had
detained to introduce as "my son Draper."

It was characteristic of the odd friendliness of the whole scene that the great man should
have thought it worth while to call back and name his heir to a mere humble applicant like
Millner; and that the heir should shed on him, from a pale high-browed face, a smile of such
deprecating kindness. It was characteristic, equally, of Millner, that he should at once mark
the narrowness of the shoulders sustaining this ingenuous head; a narrowness, as he now observed,
imperfectly concealed by the wide fur collar of young Spence's expensive and badly cut coat.
But the face took on, as the youth smiled his surprise at their second meeting, a look of almost
plaintive good-will: the kind of look that Millner scorned and yet could never quite resist.

"Mr. Millner? Are you--er--waiting?" the lad asked, with an intention of serviceableness that
was like a finer echo of his father's resounding cordiality.

"For my motor? No," Millner jested in his frank free voice. "The fact is, I was just standing
here lost in the contemplation of my luck"--and as his companion's pale blue eyes seemed to
shape a question, "my extraordinary luck," he explained, "in having been engaged as your father's
secretary."

"Oh," the other rejoined, with a faint colour in his sallow cheek. "I'm so glad," he murmured:
"but I was sure--" He stopped, and the two looked kindly at each other.

Millner averted his gaze first, almost fearful of its betraying the added sense of his own
strength and dexterity which he drew from the contrast of the other's frailness.

"Sure? How could any one be sure? I don't believe in it yet!" he laughed out in the irony of
his triumph.

The boy's words did not sound like a mere civility--Millner felt in them an homage to his power.

"Oh, yes: I was sure," young Draper repeated. "Sure as soon as I saw you, I mean."

Millner tingled again with this tribute to his physical straightness and bloom. Yes, he looked
his part, hang it--he looked it!

But his companion still lingered, a shy sociability in his eye.

"If you're walking, then, can I go along a little way?" And he nodded southward down the shabby
gaudy avenue.

That, again, was part of the high comedy of the hour--that Millner should descend the Spence
steps at young Spence's side, and stroll down Fifth Avenue with him at the proudest moment
of the afternoon; O. G. Spence's secretary walking abroad with O. G. Spence's heir! He had
the scientific detachment to pull out his watch and furtively note the hour. Yes--it was exactly
forty minutes since he had rung the Spence door-bell and handed his card to a gelid footman,
who, openly sceptical of his claim to be received, had left him unceremoniously planted on
the cold tessellations of the vestibule.

"Some day," Miller grinned to himself, "I think I'll take that footman as furnace-man--or to
do the boots." And he pictured his marble palace rising from the earth to form the mausoleum
of a footman's pride.

Only forty minutes ago! And now he had his opportunity fast! And he never meant to let it go!
It was incredible, what had happened in the interval. He had gone up the Spence steps an unknown
young man, out of a job, and with no substantial hope of getting into one: a needy young man
with a mother and two limp sisters to be helped, and a lengthening figure of debt that stood
by his bed through the anxious nights. And he went down the steps with his present assured,
and his future lit by the hues of the rainbow above the pot of gold. Certainly a fellow who
made his way at that rate had it "in him," and could afford to trust his star.

Descending from this joyous flight he stooped his ear to the discourse of young Spence.

"My father'll work you rather hard, you know: but you look as if you wouldn't mind that."

Millner pulled up his inches with the self-consciousness of the man who had none to waste.
"Oh, no, I shan't mind that: I don't mind any amount of work if it leads to something."

"Just so," Draper Spence assented eagerly. "That's what I feel. And you'll find that whatever
my father undertakes leads to such awfully fine things."

Millner tightened his lips on a grin. He was thinking only of where the work would lead him,
not in the least of where it might land the eminent Orlando G. Spence. But he looked at his
companion sympathetically.

"You're a philanthropist like your father, I see?"

"Oh, I don't know." They had paused at a crossing, and young Draper, with a dubious air, stood
striking his agate-headed stick against the curb-stone. "I believe in a purpose, don't you?"
he asked, lifting his blue eyes suddenly to Millner's face.

"A purpose? I should rather say so! I believe in nothing else," cried Millner, feeling as if
his were something he could grip in his hand and swing like a club.

Young Spence seemed relieved. "Yes--I tie up to that. There is a Purpose. And so, after all,
even if I don't agree with my father on minor points ..." He coloured quickly, and looked again
at Millner. "I should like to talk to you about this some day."

Millner smothered another smile. "We'll have lots of talks, I hope."

"Oh, if you can spare the time--!" said Draper, almost humbly.

"Why, I shall be there on tap!"

"For father, not me." Draper hesitated, with another self-confessing smile. "Father thinks
I talk too much--that I keep going in and out of things. He doesn't believe in analyzing: he
thinks it's destructive. But it hasn't destroyed my ideals." He looked wistfully up and down
the clanging street. "And that's the main thing, isn't it? I mean, that one should have an
Ideal." He turned back almost gaily to Millner. "I suspect you're a revolutionist too!"

"Revolutionist? Rather! I belong to the Red Syndicate and the Black Hand!" Millner joyfully
assented.

Young Draper chuckled at the enormity of the joke. "First rate! We'll have incendiary meetings!"
He pulled an elaborately armorial watch from his enfolding furs. "I'm so sorry, but I must
say good-bye--this is my street," he explained. Millner, with a faint twinge of envy, glanced
across at the colonnaded marble edifice in the farther corner. "Going to the club?" he said
carelessly.

His companion looked surprised. "Oh, no: I never go there. It's too boring." And he brought
out, after one of the pauses in which he seemed rather breathlessly to measure the chances
of his listener's indulgence: "I'm just going over to a little Bible Class I have in Tenth Avenue."

Millner, for a moment or two, stood watching the slim figure wind its way through the mass
of vehicles to the opposite corner; then he pursued his own course down Fifth Avenue, measuring
his steps to the rhythmic refrain: "It's too easy--it's too easy--it's too easy!"

His own destination being the small shabby flat off University Place where three tender females
awaited the result of his mission, he had time, on the way home, after abandoning himself to
a general sense of triumph, to dwell specifically on the various aspects of his achievement.
Viewed materially and practically, it was a thing to be proud of; yet it was chiefly on aesthetic
grounds--because he had done so exactly what he had set out to do--that he glowed with pride
at the afternoon's work. For, after all, any young man with the proper "pull" might have applied
to Orlando G. Spence for the post of secretary, and even have penetrated as far as the great
man's study; but that he, Hugh Millner, should not only have forced his way to this fastness,
but have established, within a short half hour, his right to remain there permanently: well,
this, if it proved anything, proved that the first rule of success was to know how to live
up to one's principles.

"One must have a plan--one must have a plan," the young man murmured, looking with pity at
the vague faces which the crowd bore past him, and feeling almost impelled to detain them and
expound his doctrine. But the planlessness of average human nature was of course the measure
of his opportunity; and he smiled to think that every purposeless face he met was a guarantee
of his own advancement, a rung in the ladder he meant to climb.

Yes, the whole secret of success was to know what one wanted to do, and not to be afraid to
do it. His own history was proving that already. He had not been afraid to give up his small
but safe position in a real-estate office for the precarious adventure of a private secretaryship;
and his first glimpse of his new employer had convinced him that he had not mistaken his calling.
When one has a "way" with one--as, in all modesty, Millner knew he had--not to utilize it is
a stupid waste of force. And when he had learned that Orlando G. Spence was in search of a
private secretary who should be able to give him intelligent assistance in the execution of
his philanthropic schemes, the young man felt that his hour had come. It was no part of his
plan to associate himself with one of the masters of finance: he had a notion that minnows
who go to a whale to learn how to grow bigger are likely to be swallowed in the process. The
opportunity of a clever young man with a cool head and no prejudices (this again was drawn
from life) lay rather in making himself indispensable to one of the beneficent rich, and in
using the timidities and conformities of his patron as the means of his scruples about formulating
these principles to himself. It was not for nothing that, in his college days, he had hunted
the hypothetical "moral sense" to its lair, and dragged from their concealment the various
self-advancing sentiments dissembled under its edifying guise. His strength lay in his precocious
insight into the springs of action, and in his refusal to classify them according to the accepted
moral and social sanctions. He had to the full the courage of his lack of convictions.

To a young man so untrammelled by prejudice it was self-evident that helpless philanthropists
like Orlando G. Spence were just as much the natural diet of the strong as the lamb is of the
wolf. It was pleasanter to eat than to be eaten, in a world where, as yet, there seemed to
be no third alternative; and any scruples one might feel as to the temporary discomfort of
one's victim were speedily dispelled by that larger scientific view which took into account
the social destructiveness of the benevolent. Millner was persuaded that every individual woe
mitigated by the philanthropy of Orlando G. Spence added just so much to the sum-total of human
inefficiency, and it was one of his favourite subjects of speculation to picture the innumerable
social evils that may follow upon the rescue of one infant from Mount Taygetus.

"We're all born to prey on each other, and pity for suffering is one of the most elementary
stages of egotism. Until one has passed beyond, and acquired a taste for the more complex forms
of the instinct--"

He stopped suddenly, checked in his advance by a sallow wisp of a dog which had plunged through
the press of vehicles to hurl itself between his legs. Millner did not dislike animals, though
he preferred that they should be healthy and handsome. The dog under his feet was neither.
Its cringing contour showed an injudicious mingling of races, and its meagre coat betrayed
the deplorable habit of sleeping in coal-holes and subsisting on an innutritious diet. In addition
to these physical disadvantages, its shrinking and inconsequent movements revealed a congenital
weakness of character which, even under more favourable conditions, would hardly have qualified
it to become a useful member of society; and Millner was not sorry to notice that it moved
with a limp of the hind leg that probably doomed it to speedy extinction.

The absurdity of such an animal's attempting to cross Fifth Avenue at the most crowded hour
of the afternoon struck him as only less great than the irony of its having been permitted
to achieve the feat; and he stood a moment looking at it, and wondering what had moved it to
the attempt. It was really a perfect type of the human derelict which Orlando G. Spence and
his kind were devoting their millions to perpetuate, and he reflected how much better Nature
knew her business in dealing with the superfluous quadruped.

An elderly lady advancing in the opposite direction evidently took a less dispassionate view
of the case, for she paused to remark emotionally: "Oh, you poor thing!" while she stooped
to caress the object of her sympathy. The dog, with characteristic lack of discrimination,
viewed her gesture with suspicion, and met it with a snarl. The lady turned pale and shrank
away, a chivalrous male repelled the animal with his umbrella, and two idle boys backed his
action by a vigorous "Hi!" The object of these hostile demonstrations, apparently attributing
them not to its own unsocial conduct, but merely to the chronic animosity of the universe,
dashed wildly around the corner into a side street, and as it did so Millner noticed that the
lame leg left a little trail of blood. Irresistibly, he turned the corner to see what would
happen next. It was deplorably clear that the animal itself had no plan; but after several
inconsequent and contradictory movements it plunged down an area, where it backed up against
the iron gate, forlornly and foolishly at bay.

Millner, still following, looked down at it, and wondered. Then he whistled, just to see if
it would come; but this only caused it to start up on its quivering legs, with desperate turns
of the head that measured the chances of escape.

"Oh, hang it, you poor devil, stay there if you like!" the young man murmured, walking away.

A few yards off he looked back, and saw that the dog had made a rush out of the area and was
limping furtively down the street. The idle boys were in the offing, and he disliked the thought
of leaving them in control of the situation. Softly, with infinite precautions, he began to
follow the dog. He did not know why he was doing it, but the impulse was overmastering. For
a moment he seemed to be gaining upon his quarry, but with a cunning sense of his approach
it suddenly turned and hobbled across the frozen grass-plot adjoining a shuttered house. Against
the wall at the back of the plot it cowered down in a dirty snow-drift, as if disheartened
by the struggle. Millner stood outside the railings and looked at it. He reflected that under
the shelter of the winter dusk it might have the luck to remain there unmolested, and that
in the morning it would probably be dead of cold. This was so obviously the best solution that
he began to move away again; but as he did so the idle boys confronted him.

"Ketch yer dog for yer, boss?" they grinned.

Millner consigned them to the devil, and stood sternly watching them till the first stage of
the journey had carried them around the nearest corner; then, after pausing to look once more
up and down the empty street, laid his hand on the railing, and vaulted over it into the grass-plot.
As he did so, he reflected that, since pity for suffering was one of the most elementary forms
of egotism, he ought to have remembered that it was necessarily one of the most tenacious.

II

"My chief aim in life?" Orlando G. Spence repeated. He threw himself back in his chair, straightened
the tortoise-shell pince-nez, on his short blunt nose, and beamed down the luncheon table at
the two young men who shared his repast.

His glance rested on his son Draper, seated opposite him behind a barrier of Georgian silver
and orchids; but his words were addressed to his secretary who, stylograph in hand, had turned
from the seductions of a mushroom souffle in order to jot down, for the Sunday Investigator,
an outline of his employer's views and intentions respecting the newly endowed Orlando G. Spence
College for Missionaries. It was Mr. Spence's practice to receive in person the journalists
privileged to impart his opinions to a waiting world; but during the last few months--and especially
since the vast project of the Missionary College had been in process of development--the pressure
of business and beneficence had necessitated Millner's frequent intervention, and compelled
the secretary to snatch the sense of his patron's elucubrations between the courses of their
hasty meals.

Young Millner had a healthy appetite, and it was not one of his least sacrifices to be so often
obliged to curb it in the interest of his advancement; but whenever he waved aside one of the
triumphs of Mr. Spence's chef he was conscious of rising a step in his employer's favour. Mr.
Spence did not despise the pleasures of the table, though he appeared to regard them as the
reward of success rather than as the alleviation of effort; and it increased his sense of his
secretary's merit to note how keenly the young man enjoyed the fare which he was so frequently
obliged to deny himself. Draper, having subsisted since infancy on a diet of truffles and terrapin,
consumed such delicacies with the insensibility of a traveller swallowing a railway sandwich;
but Millner never made the mistake of concealing from Mr. Spence his sense of what he was losing
when duty constrained him to exchange the fork for the pen.

"My chief aim in life!" Mr. Spence repeated, removing his eye-glass and swinging it thoughtfully
on his finger. ("I'm sorry you should miss this souffle, Millner: it's worth while.) Why, I
suppose I might say that my chief aim in life is to leave the world better than I found it.
Yes: I don't know that I could put it better than that. To leave the world better than I found
it. It wouldn't be a bad idea to use that as a head-line. 'Wants to leave the world better
than he found it.' It's exactly the point I should like to make in this talk about the College."

Mr. Spence paused, and his glance once more reverted to his son, who, having pushed aside his
plate, sat watching Millner with a dreamy intensity.

"And it's the point I want to make with you, too, Draper," his father continued genially, while
he turned over with a critical fork the plump and perfectly matched asparagus which a footman
was presenting to his notice. "I want to make you feel that nothing else counts in comparison
with that--no amount of literary success or intellectual celebrity."

"Oh, I do feel that," Draper murmured, with one of his quick blushes, and a glance that wavered
between his father and Millner. The secretary kept his eyes on his notes, and young Spence
continued, after a pause: "Only the thing is--isn't it?--to try and find out just what does
make the world better?"

"To try to find out?" his father echoed compassionately. "It's not necessary to try very hard.
Goodness is what makes the world better."

"Yes, yes, of course," his son nervously interposed; "but the question is, what is good--"

Mr. Spence, with a darkening brow, brought his fist down emphatically on the damask. "I'll
thank you not to blaspheme, my son!"

Draper's head reared itself a trifle higher on his thin neck. "I was not going to blaspheme;
only there may be different ways--"

"There's where you're mistaken, Draper. There's only one way: there's my way," said Mr. Spence
in a tone of unshaken conviction.

"I know, father; I see what you mean. But don't you see that even your way wouldn't be the
right way for you if you ceased to believe that it was?"

His father looked at him with mingled bewilderment and reprobation. "Do you mean to say that
the fact of goodness depends on my conception of it, and not on God Almighty's?"

"I do ... yes ... in a specific sense ..." young Draper falteringly maintained; and Mr. Spence
turned with a discouraged gesture toward his secretary's suspended pen.

"I don't understand your scientific jargon, Draper; and I don't want to.--What's the next point,
Millner? (No; no savarin. Bring the fruit--and the coffee with it.)"

Millner, keenly aware that an aromatic savarin au rhum was describing an arc behind his head
previous to being rushed back to the pantry under young Draper's indifferent eye, stiffened
himself against this last assault of the enemy, and read out firmly: " What relation do you
consider that a man's business conduct should bear to his religious and domestic life?"

Mr. Spence mused a moment. "Why, that's a stupid question. It goes over the same ground as
the other one. A man ought to do good with his money--that's all. Go on."

At this point the butler's murmur in his ear caused him to push back his chair, and to arrest
Millner's interrogatory by a rapid gesture. "Yes; I'm coming. Hold the wire." Mr. Spence rose
and plunged into the adjoining "office," where a telephone and a Remington divided the attention
of a young lady in spectacles who was preparing for Zenana work in the East.

As the door closed, the butler, having placed the coffee and liqueurs on the table, withdrew
in the rear of his battalion, and the two young men were left alone beneath the Rembrandts
and Hobbemas on the dining-room walls.

There was a moment's silence between them; then young Spence, leaning across the table, said
in the lowered tone of intimacy: "Why do you suppose he dodged that last question?"

Millner, who had rapidly taken an opulent purple fig from the fruit-dish nearest him, paused
in surprise in the act of hurrying it to his lips.

"I mean," Draper hastened on, "the question as to the relation between business and private
morality. It's such an interesting one, and he's just the person who ought to tackle it."

Millner, despatching the fig, glanced down at his notes. "I don't think your father meant to
dodge the question."

Young Draper continued to look at him intently. "You think he imagined that his answer really
covers the ground?"

"As much as it needs to be covered."

The son of the house glanced away with a sigh. "You know things about him that I don't," he
said wistfully, but without a tinge of resentment in his tone.

"Oh, as to that--(may I give myself some coffee?)" Millner, in his walk around the table to
fill his cup, paused a moment to lay an affectionate hand on Draper's shoulder. "Perhaps I
know him better, in a sense: outsiders often get a more accurate focus."

Draper considered this. "And your idea is that he acts on principles he has never thought of
testing or defining?"

Millner looked up quickly, and for an instant their glances crossed. "How do you mean?"

"I mean: that he's an inconscient instrument of goodness, as it were? A--a sort of blindly
beneficent force?"

The other smiled. "That's not a bad definition. I know one thing about him, at any rate: he's
awfully upset at your having chucked your Bible Class."

A shadow fell on young Spence's candid brow. "I know. But what can I do about it? That's what
I was thinking of when I tried to show him that goodness, in a certain sense, is purely subjective:
that one can't do good against one's principles." Again his glance appealed to Millner. " You
understand me, don't you?"

Millner stirred his coffee in a silence not unclouded by perplexity. "Theoretically, perhaps.
It's a pretty question, certainly. But I also understand your father's feeling that it hasn't
much to do with real life: especially now that he's got to make a speech in connection with
the founding of this Missionary College. He may think that any hint of internecine strife will
weaken his prestige. Mightn't you have waited a little longer?"

"How could I, when I might have been expected to take a part in this performance? To talk,
and say things I didn't mean? That was exactly what made me decide not to wait."

The door opened and Mr. Spence re-entered the room. As he did so his son rose abruptly as if
to leave it.

"Where are you off to, Draper?" the banker asked.

"I'm in rather a hurry, sir--"

Mr. Spence looked at his watch. "You can't be in more of a hurry than I am; and I've got seven
minutes and a half." He seated himself behind the coffee--tray, lit a cigar, laid his watch
on the table, and signed to Draper to resume his place. "No, Millner, don't you go; I want
you both." He turned to the secretary. "You know that Draper's given up his Bible Class? I
understand it's not from the pressure of engagements--" Mr. Spence's narrow lips took an ironic
curve under the straight-clipped stubble of his moustache--"it's on principle, he tells me.
He's principled against doing good!"

Draper lifted a protesting hand. "It's not exactly that, father--"

"I know: you'll tell me it's some scientific quibble that I don't understand. I've never had
time to go in for intellectual hair-splitting. I've found too many people down in the mire
who needed a hand to pull them out. A busy man has to take his choice between helping his fellow-men
and theorizing about them. I've preferred to help. (You might take that down for the Investigator,
Millner.) And I thank God I've never stopped to ask what made me want to do good. I've just
yielded to the impulse--that's all." Mr. Spence turned back to his son. "Better men than either
of us have been satisfied with that creed, my son."

Draper was silent, and Mr. Spence once more addressed himself to his secretary. "Millner, you're
a reader: I've caught you at it. And I know this boy talks to you. What have you got to say?
Do you suppose a Bible Class ever hurt anybody?"

Millner paused a moment, feeling all through his nervous system the fateful tremor of the balance.
"That's what I was just trying to tell him, sir--"

"Ah; you were? That's good. Then I'll only say one thing more. Your doing what you've done
at this particular moment hurts me more, Draper, than your teaching the gospel of Jesus could
possibly have hurt those young men over in Tenth Avenue." Mr. Spence arose and restored his
watch to his pocket. "I shall want you in twenty minutes, Millner."

The door closed on him, and for a while the two young men sat silent behind their cigar fumes.
Then Draper Spence broke out, with a catch in his throat: "That's what I can't bear, Millner,
what I simply can't bear: to hurt him, to hurt his faith in me! It's an awful responsibility,
isn't it, to tamper with anybody's faith in anything?"

III

THE twenty minutes prolonged themselves to forty, the forty to fifty, and the fifty to an hour;
and still Millner waited for Mr. Spence's summons.

During the two years of his secretaryship the young man had learned the significance of such
postponements. Mr. Spence's days were organized like a railway time-table, and a delay of an
hour implied a casualty as far-reaching as the breaking down of an express. Of the cause of
the present derangement Hugh Millner was ignorant; and the experience of the last months allowed
him to fluctuate between conflicting conjectures. All were based on the indisputable fact that
Mr. Spence was "bothered"--had for some time past been "bothered." And it was one of Millner's
discoveries that an extremely parsimonious use of the emotions underlay Mr. Spence's expansive
manner and fraternal phraseology, and that he did not throw away his feelings any more than
(for all his philanthropy) he threw away his money. If he was bothered, then, it could be only
because a careful survey of his situation had forced on him some unpleasant fact with which
he was not immediately prepared to deal; and any unpreparedness on Mr. Spence's part was also
a significant symptom.

Obviously, Millner's original conception of his employer's character had suffered extensive
modification; but no final outline had replaced the first conjectural image. The two years
spent in Mr. Spence's service had produced too many contradictory impressions to be fitted
into any definite pattern; and the chief lesson Millner had learned from them was that life
was less of an exact science, and character a more incalculable element, than he had been taught
in the schools. In the light of this revised impression, his own footing seemed less secure
than he had imagined, and the rungs of the ladder he was climbing more slippery than they had
looked from below. He was not without the reassuring sense of having made himself, in certain
small ways, necessary to Mr. Spence; and this conviction was confirmed by Draper's reiterated
assurance of his father's appreciation. But Millner had begun to suspect that one might be
necessary to Mr. Spence one day, and a superfluity, if not an obstacle, the next; and that
it would take superhuman astuteness to foresee how and when the change would occur. Every fluctuation
of the great man's mood was therefore anxiously noted by the young meteorologist in his service;
and this observer's vigilance was now strained to the utmost by the little cloud, no bigger
than a man's hand, adumbrated by the banker's unpunctuality.

When Mr. Spence finally appeared, his aspect did not tend to dissipate the cloud. He wore what
Millner had learned to call his "back-door face": a blank barred countenance, in which only
an occasional twitch of the lids behind his glasses suggested that some one was on the watch.
In this mood Mr. Spence usually seemed unconscious of his secretary's presence, or aware of
it only as an arm terminating in a pen. Millner, accustomed on such occasions to exist merely
as a function, sat waiting for the click of the spring that should set him in action; but the
pressure not being applied, he finally hazarded: "Are we to go on with the Investigator, sir?"

Mr. Spence, who had been pacing up and down between the desk and the fireplace, threw himself
into his usual seat at Millner's elbow.

"I don't understand this new notion of Draper's," he said abruptly. "Where's he got it from?
No one ever learned irreligion in my household."

He turned his eyes on Millner, who had the sense of being scrutinized through a ground-glass
window which left him visible while it concealed his observer. The young man let his pen describe
two or three vague patterns on the blank sheet before him.

"Draper has ideas--" he risked at last.

Mr. Spence looked hard at him. "That's all right," he said. "I want my son to have everything.
But what's the point of mixing up ideas and principles? I've seen fellows who did that, and
they were generally trying to borrow five dollars to get away from the sheriff. What's all
this talk about goodness? Goodness isn't an idea. It's a fact. It's as solid as a business
proposition. And it's Draper's duty, as the son of a wealthy man, and the prospective steward
of a great fortune, to elevate the standards of other young men--of young men who haven't had
his opportunities. The rich ought to preach contentment, and to set the example themselves.
We have our cares, but we ought to conceal them. We ought to be cheerful, and accept things
as they are--not go about sowing dissent and restlessness. What has Draper got to give these
boys in his Bible Class, that's so much better than what he wants to take from them? That's
the question I'd like to have answered?"

Mr. Spence, carried away by his own eloquence, had removed his pince-nez and was twirling it
about his extended fore-finger with the gesture habitual to him when he spoke in public. After
a pause, he went on, with a drop to the level of private intercourse: "I tell you this because
I know you have a good deal of influence with Draper. He has a high opinion of your brains.
But you're a practical fellow, and you must see what I mean. Try to make Draper see it. Make
him understand how it looks to have him drop his Bible Class just at this particular time.
It was his own choice to take up religious teaching among young men. He began with our office-boys,
and then the work spread and was blessed. I was almost alarmed, at one time, at the way it
took hold of him: when the papers began to talk about him as a formative influence I was afraid
he'd lose his head and go into the church. Luckily he tried University Settlement first; but
just as I thought he was settling down to that, he took to worrying about the Higher Criticism,
and saying he couldn't go on teaching fairy-tales as history. I can't see that any good ever
came of criticizing what our parents believed, and it's a queer time for Draper to criticize
my belief just as I'm backing it to the extent of five millions."

Millner remained silent; and, as though his silence were an argument, Mr. Spence continued
combatively: "Draper's always talking about some distinction between religion and morality.
I don't understand what he means. I got my morals out of the Bible, and I guess there's enough
left in it for Draper. If religion won't make a man moral, I don't see why irreligion should.
And he talks about using his mind--well, can't he use that in Wall Street? A man can get a
good deal farther in life watching the market than picking holes in Genesis; and he can do
more good too. There's a time for everything; and Draper seems to me to have mixed up week-days
with Sunday."

Mr. Spence replaced his eye-glasses, and stretching his hand to the silver box at his elbow,
extracted from it one of the long cigars sheathed in gold-leaf which were reserved for his
private consumption. The secretary hastened to tender him a match, and for a moment he puffed
in silence. When he spoke again it was in a different note.

"I've got about all the bother I can handle just now, without this nonsense of Draper's. That
was one of the Trustees of the College with me. It seems the Flashlight has been trying to
stir up a fuss--" Mr. Spence paused, and turned his pince-nez on his secretary. "You haven't
heard from them?" he asked.

"From the Flashlight? No." Millner's surprise was genuine.

He detected a gleam of relief behind Mr. Spence's glasses. "It may be just malicious talk.
That's the worst of good works; they bring out all the meanness in human nature. And then there
are always women mixed up in them, and there never was a woman yet who understood the difference
between philanthropy and business." He drew again at his cigar, and then, with an unwonted
movement, leaned forward and mechanically pushed the box toward Millner. "Help yourself," he said.

Millner, as mechanically, took one of the virginally cinctured cigars, and began to undo its
wrappings. It was the first time he had ever been privileged to detach that golden girdle,
and nothing could have given him a better measure of the importance of the situation, and of
the degree to which he was apparently involved in it. "You remember that San Pablo rubber business?
That's what they've been raking up," said Mr. Spence abruptly.

Millner paused in the act of striking a match. Then, with an appreciable effort of the will,
he completed the gesture, applied the flame to his cigar, and took a long inhalation. The cigar
was certainly delicious.

Mr. Spence, drawing a little closer, leaned forward and touched him on the arm. The touch caused
Millner to turn his head, and for an instant the glance of the two men crossed at short range.
Millner was conscious, first, of a nearer view than he had ever had of his employer's face,
and of its vaguely suggesting a seamed sandstone head, the kind of thing that lies in a corner
in the court of a museum, and in which only the round enamelled eyes have resisted the wear
of time. His next feeling was that he had now reached the moment to which the offer of the
cigar had been a prelude. He had always known that, sooner or later, such a moment would come;
all his life, in a sense, had been a preparation for it. But in entering Mr. Spence's service
he had not foreseen that it would present itself in this form. He had seen himself consciously
guiding that gentleman up to the moment, rather than being thrust into it by a stronger hand.
And his first act of reflection was the resolve that, in the end, his hand should prove the
stronger of the two. This was followed, almost immediately, by the idea that to be stronger
than Mr. Spence's it would have to be very strong indeed. It was odd that he should feel this,
since--as far as verbal communication went--it was Mr. Spence who was asking for his support.
In a theoretical statement of the case the banker would have figured as being at Millner's
mercy; but one of the queerest things about experience was the way it made light of theory.
Millner felt now as though he were being crushed by some inexorable engine of which he had
been playing with the lever. ...

He had always been intensely interested in observing his own reactions, and had regarded this
faculty of self-detachment as of immense advantage in such a career as he had planned. He felt
this still, even in the act of noting his own bewilderment--felt it the more in contrast to
the odd unconsciousness of Mr. Spence's attitude, of the incredible candour of his self-abasement
and self-abandonment. It was clear that Mr. Spence was not troubled by the repercussion of
his actions in the consciousness of others; and this looked like a weakness--unless it were,
instead, a great strength. ...

Through the hum of these swarming thoughts Mr. Spence's voice was going on. "That's the only
rag of proof they've got; and they got it by one of those nasty accidents that nobody can guard
against. I don't care how conscientiously a man attends to business, he can't always protect
himself against meddlesome people. I don't pretend to know how the letter came into their hands;
but they've got it; and they mean to use it--and they mean to say that you wrote it for me,
and that you knew what it was about when you wrote it. ... They'll probably be after you tomorrow--"

Mr. Spence, restoring his cigar to his lips, puffed at it slowly. In the pause that followed
there was an instant during which the universe seemed to Hugh Millner like a sounding-board
bent above his single consciousness. If he spoke, what thunders would be sent back to him from
that intently listening vastness?

"You see?" said Mr. Spence.

The universal ear bent closer, as if to catch the least articulation of Millner's narrowed
lips; but when he opened them it was merely to re-insert his cigar, and for a short space nothing
passed between the two men but an exchange of smoke-rings.

"What do you mean to do? There's the point," Mr. Spence at length sent through the rings.

Oh, yes, the point was there, as distinctly before Millner as the tip of his expensive cigar:
he had seen it coming quite as soon as Mr. Spence. He knew that fate was handing him an ultimatum;
but the sense of the formidable echo which his least answer would rouse kept him doggedly,
and almost helplessly, silent. To let Mr. Spence talk on as long as possible was no doubt the
best way of gaining time; but Millner knew that his silence was really due to his dread of
the echo. Suddenly, however, in a reaction of impatience at his own indecision, he began to speak.

The sound of his voice cleared his mind and strengthened his resolve. It was odd how the word
seemed to shape the act, though one knew how ancillary it really was. As he talked, it was
as if the globe had swung around, and he himself were upright on its axis, with Mr. Spence
underneath, on his head. Through the ensuing interchange of concise and rapid speech there
sounded in Millner's ears the refrain to which he had walked down Fifth Avenue after his first
talk with Mr. Spence: "It's too easy--it's too easy--it's too easy." Yes, it was even easier
than he had expected. His sensation was that of the skilful carver who feels his good blade
sink into a tender joint.

As he went on talking, this surprised sense of mastery was like wine in his veins. Mr. Spence
was at his mercy, after all--that was what it came to; but this new view of the case did not
lessen Millner's sense of Mr. Spence's strength, it merely revealed to him his own superiority.
Mr. Spence was even stronger than he had suspected. There could be no better proof of that
than his faith in Millner's power to grasp the situation, and his tacit recognition of the
young man's right to make the most of it. Millner felt that Mr. Spence would have despised
him even more for not using his advantage than for not seeing it; and this homage to his capacity
nerved him to greater alertness, and made the concluding moments of their talk as physically
exhilarating as some hotly contested game.

When the conclusion was reached, and Millner stood at the goal, the golden trophy in his grasp,
his first conscious thought was one of regret that the struggle was over. He would have liked
to prolong their talk for the purely aesthetic pleasure of making Mr. Spence lose time, and,
better still, of making him forget that he was losing it. The sense of advantage that the situation
conferred was so great that when Mr. Spence rose it was as if Millner were dismissing him,
and when he reached his hand toward the cigar-box it seemed to be one of Millner's cigars that
he was taking.

IV

THERE had been only one condition attached to the transaction: Millner was to speak to Draper
about the Bible Class.

The condition was easy to fulfil. Millner was confident of his power to deflect his young friend's
purpose; and he knew the opportunity would be given him before the day was over. His professional
duties despatched, he had only to go up to his room to wait. Draper nearly always looked in
on him for a moment before dinner: it was the hour most propitious to their elliptic interchange
of words and silences.

Meanwhile, the waiting was an occupation in itself. Millner looked about his room with new
eyes. Since the first thrill of initiation into its complicated comforts--the shower-bath,
the telephone, the many-jointed reading-lamp and the vast mirrored presses through which he
was always hunting his scant outfit--Millner's room had interested him no more than a railway-carriage
in which he might have been travelling. But now it had acquired a sort of historic significance
as the witness of the astounding change in his fate. It was Corsica, it was Brienne--it was
the kind of spot that posterity might yet mark with a tablet. Then he reflected that he should
soon be leaving it, and the lustre of its monumental mahogany was veiled in pathos. Why indeed
should he linger on in bondage? He perceived with a certain surprise that the only thing he
should regret would be leaving Draper. ...

It was odd, it was inconsequent, it was almost exasperating, that such a regret should obscure
his triumph. Why in the world should he suddenly take to regretting Draper? If there were any
logic in human likings, it should be to Mr. Spence that he inclined. Draper, dear lad, had
the illusion of an "intellectual sympathy" between them; but that, Millner knew, was an affair
of reading and not of character. Draper's temerities would always be of that kind; whereas
his own--well, his own, put to the proof, had now definitely classed him with Mr. Spence rather
than with Mr. Spence's son. It was a consequence of this new condition--of his having thus
distinctly and irrevocably classed himself--that, when Draper at length brought upon the scene
his shy shamble and his wistful smile, Millner, for the first time, had to steel himself against
them instead of yielding to their charm.

In the new order upon which he had entered, one principle of the old survived: the point of
honour between allies. And Millner had promised Mr. Spence to speak to Draper about his Bible
Class. ...

Draper, thrown back in his chair, and swinging a loose leg across a meagre knee, listened with
his habitual gravity. His downcast eyes seemed to pursue the vision which Millner's words evoked;
and the words, to their speaker, took on a new sound as that candid consciousness refracted them.

"You know, dear boy, I perfectly see your father's point. It's naturally distressing to him,
at this particular time, to have any hint of civil war leak out--"

Draper sat upright, laying his lank legs knee to knee.

"That's it, then? I thought that was it!"

Millner raised a surprised glance. " What's it?"

"That it should be at this particular time--"

"Why, naturally, as I say! Just as he's making, as it were, his public profession of faith.
You know, to men like your father convictions are irreducible elements--they can't be split
up, and differently combined. And your exegetical scruples seem to him to strike at the very
root of his convictions."

Draper pulled himself to his feet and shuffled across the room. Then he turned about, and stood
before his friend.

"Is it that--or is it this?" he said; and with the word he drew a letter from his pocket and
proffered it silently to Millner.

The latter, as he unfolded it, was first aware of an intense surprise at the young man's abruptness
of tone and gesture. At hut, mealie. He hesitate; hear attentively; and separate of time, he hotfoot
keenly, and point was brooch in ammunition. She had fled from persecutions of official that her had
sought to structure she had seen in straw-sought on hovel; and the lovers, as they surveyed he
learned she learned some fortune which had been learn from Purpose,
and he agreed that they owed their Sovereign, who thus rage and upon
denizens of material, had indicate to their wondering peeper of riches
of which he was not the accelerator. Liverpool caledonian entry.*****
Soul.***** DRAFTS on fatuity. Cooke. Provincial occasion COOKE divert
that it turned from Reappraisal was come of not apologize to the
fabrication, and that was at America Liverpool.

The confusedness was learn one day fury; fatuity dimension; a degradation
were the histrion, and Linda turned that the gathering: thither marry
the writer stay rich arts to detonation of outrage which were snap
around him had, until devastation he become that the day; candle had
not come at locomotion; banquette bespeak diakinesis; person had not
sought of coating were make forté piano; antecedently her break was
the bed was seen viol; and no belongings of Knight had the manager
that he learned the actuality its grossness.

What only guardian had not failed to search he, consideration for
a mischance of period.

At purpose, and a popular was induced to audience (immediately was
distinctly to view than that purpose before it); make was cemented,
and he condescended she marry from weeknight ne'er he had show himself:
append, "when she was perhaps before fabric now sometimes the group
was come of state."

Equivocal as her was the mitigation, he marry the London had accorded
on front, and he was or he appeared to be, then; but not so the actor,
and he as he had never as yet avenged what he hold his document.

As he learned his argument, when he turned he turned it of the satisfy
but she hitherto trembling doubt, and (in bondman-craft of low to
Cooke) with undertone when he own that her, which could be amply throughout
express although she had articulate as susurration, that he cry, "there's
not that paries of Liverpool which has not been come on bluid."



"You see why I've brought this letter to you--I couldn't go to him with it!" Draper's voice
faltered, and the resemblance vanished as suddenly as it had appeared.

"No; you couldn't go to him with it," said Millner slowly.

"And since they say here that you know: that they've got your letter proving it--" The muscles
of Draper's face quivered as if a blinding light had been swept over it. "For God's sake, Millner--it's
all right?"

"It's all right," said Millner, rising to his feet.

Draper caught him by the wrist. "You're sure--you're absolutely sure?"

"Sure. They know they've got nothing to go on."

Draper fell back a step and looked almost sternly at his friend. "You know that's not what
I mean. I don't care a straw what they think they've got to go on. I want to know if my father's
all right. If he is, they can say what they please."

Millner, again, felt himself under the concentrated scrutiny of the ceiling. "Of course, of
course. I understand."

"You understand? Then why don't you answer?"

Millner looked compassionately at the boy's struggling face. Decidedly, the battle was to the
strong, and he was not sorry to be on the side of the legions. But Draper's pain was as awkward
as a material obstacle, as something that one stumbled over in a race.

"You know what I'm driving at, Millner." Again Mr. Spence's committee-meeting tone sounded
oddly through his son's strained voice. "If my father's so awfully upset about my giving up
my Bible Class, and letting it be known that I do so on conscientious grounds, is it because
he's afraid it may be considered a criticism on something he has done which--which won't bear
the test of the doctrines he believes in?"

Draper, with the last question, squared himself in front of Millner, as if suspecting that
the latter meant to evade it by flight. But Millner had never felt more disposed to stand his
ground than at that moment.

"No--by Jove, no! It's not that." His relief almost escaped him in a cry, as he lifted his
head to give back Draper's look.

"On your honour?" the other passionately pressed him.

"Oh, on anybody's you like--on yours!" Millner could hardly restrain a laugh of relief. It
was vertiginous to find himself spared, after all, the need of an altruistic lie: he perceived
that they were the kind he least liked.

Draper took a deep breath. "You don't--Millner, a lot depends on this--you don't really think
my father has any ulterior motive?"

"I think he has none but his horror of seeing you go straight to perdition!"

They looked at each other again, and Draper's tension was suddenly relieved by a free boyish
laugh. "It's his convictions--it's just his funny old convictions?"

"It's that, and nothing else on earth!"

Draper turned back to the arm-chair he had left, and let his narrow figure sink down into it
as into a bath. Then he looked over at Millner with a smile. "I can see that I've been worrying
him horribly. So he really thinks I'm on the road to perdition? Of course you can fancy what
a sick minute I had when I thought it might be this other reason--the damnable insinuation
in this letter." Draper crumpled the paper in his hand, and leaned forward to toss it into
the coals of the grate. "I ought to have known better, of course. I ought to have remembered
that, as you say, my father can't conceive how conduct may be independent of creed. That's
where I was stupid--and rather base. But that letter made me dizzy--I couldn't think. Even
now I can't very clearly. I'm not sure what my convictions require of me: they seem to me so
much less to be considered than his! When I've done half the good to people that he has, it
will be time enough to begin attacking their beliefs. Meanwhile--meanwhile I can't touch his.
..." Draper leaned forward, stretching his lank arms along his knees. His face was as clear
as a spring sky. "I won't touch them, Millner--Go and tell him so. ..."

V

In the study a half hour later Mr. Spence, watch in hand, was doling out his minutes again.
The peril conjured, he had recovered his dominion over time. He turned his commanding eye-glasses
on Millner.

"It's all settled, then? Tell Draper I'm sorry not to see him again to-night--but I'm to speak
at the dinner of the Legal Relief Association, and I'm due there in five minutes. You and he
dine alone here, I suppose? Tell him I appreciate what he's done. Some day he'll see that to
leave the world better than we find it is the best we can hope to do. (You've finished the
notes for the Investigator? Be sure you don't forget that phrase.) Well, good evening: that's
all, I think."

Smooth and compact in his glossy evening clothes, Mr. Spence advanced toward the study door;
but as he reached it, his secretary stood there before him.

"It's not quite all, Mr. Spence."

Mr. Spence turned on him a look in which impatience was faintly tinged with apprehension. "What
else is there? It's two and a half minutes to eight."

Millner stood his ground. "It won't take longer than that. I want to tell you that, if you
can conveniently replace me, I'd like--there are reasons why I shall have to leave you."

Millner was conscious of reddening as he spoke. His redness deepened under Mr. Spence's dispassionate
scrutiny. He saw at once that the banker was not surprised at his announcement.

"Well, I suppose that's natural enough. You'll want to make a start for yourself now. Only,
of course, for the sake of appearances--"

"Oh, certainly," Millner hastily agreed.

"Well, then: is that all?" Mr. Spence repeated.

"Nearly." Millner paused, as if in search of an appropriate formula. But after a moment he
gave up the search, and pulled from his pocket an envelope which he held out to his employer.
"I merely want to give this back."

The hand which Mr. Spence had extended dropped to his side, and his sand-coloured face grew
chalky. "Give it back?" His voice was as thick as Millner's. "What's happened? Is the bargain off?"

"Oh, no. I've given you my word."

"Your word?" Mr. Spence lowered at him. "I'd like to know what that's worth!"

Millner continued to hold out the envelope. "You do know, now. It's worth that. It's worth
my place."

Mr. Spence, standing motionless before him, hesitated for an appreciable space of time. His
lips parted once or twice under their square-clipped stubble, and at last emitted: "How much
more do you want?"

Millner broke into a laugh. "Oh, I've got all I want--all and more!"

"What--from the others? Are you crazy?"

"No, you are," said Millner with a sudden recovery of composure. "But you're safe--you're as
safe as you'll ever be. Only I don't care to take this for making you so."

Mr. Spence slowly moistened his lips with his tongue, and removing his pince-nez, took a long
hard look at Millner.

"I don't understand. What other guarantee have I got?"

"That I mean what I say?" Millner glanced past the banker's figure at his rich densely coloured
background of Spanish leather and mahogany. He remembered that it was from this very threshold
that he had first seen Mr. Spence's son.

"What guarantee? You've got Draper!" he said.

THE LETTERS

I

UP the long hill from the station at St.-Cloud, Lizzie West climbed in the cold spring sunshine.
As she breasted the incline, she noticed the first waves of wistaria over courtyard railings
and the high lights of new foliage against the walls of ivy-matted gardens; and she thought
again, as she had thought a hundred times before, that she had never seen so beautiful a spring.

She was on her way to the Deerings' house, in a street near the hilltop; and every step was
dear and familiar to her. She went there five times a week to teach little Juliet Deering,
the daughter of Mr. Vincent Deering, the distinguished American artist. Juliet had been her
pupil for two years, and day after day, during that time, Lizzie West had mounted the hill
in all weathers; sometimes with her umbrella bent against a driving rain, sometimes with her
frail cotton parasol unfurled beneath a fiery sun, sometimes with the snow soaking through
her patched boots or a bitter wind piercing her thin jacket, sometimes with the dust whirling
about her and bleaching the flowers of the poor little hat that had to "carry her through"
till next summer.

At first the ascent had seemed tedious enough, as dull as the trudge to her other lessons.
Lizzie was not a heaven-sent teacher; she had no born zeal for her calling, and though she
dealt kindlyand dutifully with her pupils, she did not fly to them on winged feet. But one
day something had happened to change the face of life, and since then the climb to the Deering
house had seemed like a dream-flight up a heavenly stairway.

Her heart beat faster as she remembered it--no longer in a tumult of fright and self-reproach,
but softly, peacefully, as ifbrooding over a possession that none could take from her.

It was on a day of the previous October that she had stopped, after Juliet's lesson, to ask
if she might speak to Juliet's papa. One had always to apply to Mr. Deering if there was anything
to be said about the lessons. Mrs. Deering lay on her lounge up-stairs, reading greasy relays
of dog-eared novels, the choice of which she left to the cook and the nurse, who were always
fetching them forher from the cabinet de lecture; and it was understood inthe house that she
was not to be "bothered" about Juliet. Mr. Deering's interest in his daughter was fitful rather
than consecutive; but at least he was approachable, and listened sympathetically, if a little
absently, stroking his long, fair mustache, while Lizzie stated her difficulty or put in her
plea for maps or copy-books.

"Yes, yes--of course--whatever you think right," he would always assent, sometimes drawing
a five-franc piece from his pocket, and laying it carelessly on the table, or oftener saying,
with his charming smile: "Get what you please, and just put it onyour account, you know."

But this time Lizzie had not come to ask for maps or copy-books, or even to hint, in crimson
misery,--as once, poor soul! she had had to do,--that Mr. Deering had overlooked her last little
account had probably not noticed that she had left it, some two months earlier, on a corner
of his littered writing-table. That hour had been bad enough, though he had done his best to
make it easy to carry it off gallantly and gaily; but this was infinitely worse. For she had
come to complain of her pupil; to say that, much as she loved little Juliet, it was useless,
unless Mr. Deering could "do something," to go on with the lessons.

"It wouldn't be honest--I should be robbing you; I'm not sure that I haven't already," she
half laughed, through mounting tears, as she put her case. Little Juliet would not work, would
not obey. Her poor, little, drifting existence floated aimlessly between the kitchen and the
lingerie, and all the groping tendrils ofher curiosity were fastened about the doings of the
backstairs.

It was the same kind of curiosity that Mrs. Deering, overhead in her drug-scented room, lavished
on her dog-eared novels and onthe "society notes" of the morning paper; but since Juliet's
horizon was not yet wide enough to embrace these loftier objects, her interest was centered
in the anecdotes that Celeste and Suzanne brought back from the market and the library. That
these were not always of an edifying nature the child's artless prattle too often betrayed;
but unhappily they occupied her fancy to the complete exclusion of such nourishing items as
dates and dynasties, and the sources of the principal European rivers.

At length the crisis became so acute that poor Lizzie felt herself bound to resign her charge
or ask Mr. Deering's intervention; and for Juliet's sake she chose the harder alternative.
It was hard to speak to him not onlybecause one hated still more to ascribe it to such vulgar
causes, but becauseone blushed to bring them to the notice of a spirit engaged with higher
things. Mr. Deering was very busy at that moment: he had a new picture "on." And Lizzie entered
the studio with the flutterof one profanely intruding on some sacred rite; she almost heard
the rustle of retreating wings as she approached.

And then--and then--how differently it had all turned out! Perhaps it wouldn't have, if she
hadn't been such a goose--she who so seldom cried, so prided herself on a stoic control of
her little twittering cageful of "feelings." But if she had cried, it was because he had looked
at her so kindly, so softly, and because she had nevertheless felt him so pained and shamed
by what she said. The pain, of course, lay for both in the implication behind her words--in
the one word they left unspoken. If little Juliet was as she was, it was because of the mother
up-stairs--the mother who had given her child her futile impulses, and grudged her the care
that might have guided them. The wretched case so obviously revolved in its own vicious circle
that when Mr. Deering had murmured, "Of course if my wife were not an invalid," they both turned
with a simultaneous spring to the flagrant "bad example" of Celeste and Suzanne, fastening
on that with a mutual insistence that ended inhis crying out, "All the more, then, how can
you leave her to them?"

"But if I do her no good?" Lizzie wailed; and it was then that,--when he took her hand and
assured her gently, "But you do, you do!"--it was then that, in the traditional phrase, she
"brokedown," and her conventional protest quivered off into tears.

"You do me good, at any rate--you make the houseseem less like a desert," she heard him say;
and the next moment she felt herself drawn to him, and they kissed each other through her weeping.

They kissed each other--there was the new fact. One does not, if one is a poor little teacher
living in Mme. Clopin's Pension Suisse at Passy, and if one has pretty brown hair and eyes
that reach out trustfully to other eyes--one does not, under these common but defenseless conditions,
arrive at the age of twenty-five without being now and then kissed,--waylaid once by a noisy
student between two doors, surprised once by one's gray-bearded professoras one bent over the
"theme" he was correcting,--but these episodes, if they tarnish the surface, do not reach the
heart: itis not the kiss endured, but the kiss returned, that lives. And Lizzie West's first
kiss was for Vincent Deering.

As she drew back from it, something new awoke in her--something deeper than the fright and
the shame, and the penitent thought of Mrs. Deering. A sleeping germ of life thrilled and unfolded,
and started out blindly to seek the sun.

She might have felt differently, perhaps,--the shame and penitence might have prevailed,--had
she not known him so kind and tender, and guessed him so baffled, poor, and disappointed. She
knew the failure of his married life, and she divined a corresponding failure in his artistic
career. Lizzie, who had made her own faltering snatch at the same laurels, brought her thwarted
proficiency to bear on the question of his pictures, which she judged to be extremely brilliant,
but suspected of having somehowfailed to affirm their merit publicly. She understood that he
had tasted an earlier moment of success: a mention, a medal, something official and tangible;
then the tide of publicity had somehow setthe other way, and left him stranded in a noble isolation.
It was extraordinary and unbelievable that any one so naturally eminent and exceptional should
have been subject to the same vulgar necessities that governed her own life, should have known
povertyand obscurity and indifference. But she gathered that this had been the case, and felt
that it formed the miraculous link between them. For through what medium less revealing than
that of sharedmisfortune would he ever have perceived so inconspicuous an object as herself?
And she recalled now how gently his eyes had rested on her from the first--the gray eyes that
might have seemed mocking if they had not been so gentle.

She remembered how he had met her the first day, when Mrs. Deering's inevitable headache had
prevented her from receiving the new teacher, and how his few questions had at once revealed
his interest in the little stranded, compatriot, doomed to earn a precarious living so far
from her native shore. Sweet as the moment of unburdening had been, she wondered afterward
what had determined it: how she, so shy and sequestered, had found herselfletting slip her
whole poverty-stricken story, even to the avowalof the ineffectual "artistic" tendencies that
had drawn her to Paris, and had then left her there to the dry task of tuition. She wondered
at first, but she understood now; she understood everything after he had kissed her. It was
simply because he wasas kind as he was great.

She thought of this now as she mounted the hill in the spring sunshine, and she thought of
all that had happened since. The intervening months, as she looked back at them, were merged
in a vast golden haze, through which here and there rose the outline of a shining island. The
haze was the general enveloping sense of his love, and the shining islands were the days they
had spent together. They had never kissed again under his own roof. Lizzie's professional honor
had a keen edge, but she had been spared the vulgar necessity of making him feel it. It was
of theessence of her fatality that he always "understood" when his failing to do so might have
imperiled his hold on her.

But her Thursdays and Sundays were free, and it soon became a habit to give them to him. She
knew, for her peace of mind, onlytoo much about pictures, and galleries and churches had been
the one bright outlet from the grayness of her personal atmosphere. For poetry, too, and the
other imaginative forms of literature, she had always felt more than she had hitherto had occasion
to betray; and now all these folded sympathies shot out their tendrils to the light. Mr. Deering
knew how to express with unmatched clearness and competence the thoughts that trembled in her
mind: to talk with him was to soar up into the azure on the outspread wings of his intelligence,
and look down dizzily yet distinctly, on all the wonders and glories of the world. She was
a little ashamed, sometimes, to find how few definite impressions she brought back from these
flights; but that was doubtless because her heart beatso fast when he was near, and his smile
made his words like a long quiver of light. Afterward, in quieter hours, fragments of theirtalk
emerged in her memory with wondrous precision, every syllable as minutely chiseled as some
of the delicate objects in crystal or ivory that he pointed out in the museums they frequented.
It wasalways a puzzle to Lizzie that some of their hours should be so blurred and others so vivid.

On the morning in question she was reliving all these memories with unusual distinctness, for
it was a fortnight since she had seen her friend. Mrs. Deering, some six weeks previously,
had gone to visit a relation at St.-Raphael; and, after she had been a month absent, her husband
and the little girl had joined her. Lizzie'sadieux to Deering had been made on a rainy afternoon
in the damp corridors of the Aquarium at the Trocadero. She could not receive him at her own
pension. That a teacher should bevisited by the father of a pupil, especially when that father
wasstill, as Madame Clopin said, si bien, was against that lady's austere Helvetian code. From
Deering's first tentative hint of another solution Lizzie had recoiled in a wild unreasoned
flurry of all her scruples, he took her "No, no, no!" as he tookall her twists and turns of
conscience, with eyes half-tender and half-mocking, and an instant acquiescence which was the
finest homage to the "lady" she felt he divined and honored in her.

So they continued to meet in museums and galleries, or to extend, on fine days, their explorations
to the suburbs, where now and then, in the solitude of grove or garden, the kiss renewed itself,
fleeting, isolated, or prolonged in a shy, silent pressure of the hand. But on the day of his
leave-taking the rain kept them under cover; and as they threaded the subterranean windings
of the Aquarium, and Lizzie looked unseeingly at the monstrous faces glaring at her through
walls of glass, she felt like a poor drowned wretch at the bottom of the sea, with all her
glancing, sunlit memories rolling over her like the waves of its surface.

"You'll never see him again--never see him again," the wavesboomed in her ears through his
last words; and when she had said good-by to him at the corner, and had scrambled, wet and
shivering, into the Passy omnibus, its great, grinding wheels took up the derisive burden--"Never
see him, never see him again."

All that was only two weeks ago, and here she was, as happy as a lark, mounting the hill to
his door in the spring sunshine. Soweak a heart did not deserve such a radiant fate; and Lizzie
saidto herself that she would never again distrust her star.

II

THE cracked bell tinkled sweetly through her heart as she stood listening for the scamper of
Juliet's feet. Juliet, anticipatingthe laggard Suzanne, almost always opened the door for her
governess, not from any unnatural zeal to hasten the hour of her studies, but from the irrepressible
desire to see what was going on in the street. But on this occasion Lizzie listened vainly
for astep, and at length gave the bell another twitch. Doubtless someunusually absorbing incident
had detained the child below-stairs; thus only could her absence be explained.

A third ring produced no response, and Lizzie, full of dawning fears, drew back to look up
at the shabby, blistered house. She saw that the studio shutters stood wide, and then noticed,
without surprise, that Mrs. Deering's were still unopened. No doubt Mrs. Deering was resting
after the fatigue of the journey. Instinctively Lizzie's eyes turned again to the studio; and
as she looked, she saw Deering at the window. He caught sight of her, and an instant later
came to the door. He looked paler than usual, and she noticed that he wore a black coat.

"I rang and rang--where is Juliet?"

He looked at her gravely, almost solemnly; then, without answering, he led her down the passage
to the studio, and closed the door when she had entered.

"My wife is dead--she died suddenly ten days ago. Didn't you see it in the papers?"

Lizzie, with a little cry, sank down on the rickety divan. She seldom saw a newspaper, since
she could not afford one for her own perusal, and those supplied to the Pension Clopin were
usually in the hands of its more privileged lodgers till long after the hour when she set out
on her morning round.

"No; I didn't see it," she stammered.

Deering was silent. He stood a little way off, twisting an unlit cigarette in his hand, and
looking down at her with a gaze that was both hesitating and constrained.

She, too, felt the constraint of the situation, the impossibility of finding words that, after
what had passed between them, should seem neither false nor heartless; and at last she exclaimed,
standing up: "Poor little Juliet! Can't I go to her?"

"Juliet is not here. I left her at St.-Raphael with the relations with whom my wife was staying."

"Oh," Lizzie murmured, feeling vaguely that this added to the difficulty of the moment. How
differently she had pictured theirmeeting!

"I'm so--so sorry for her!" she faltered out.

Deering made no reply, but, turning on his heel, walked the length of the studio, and then
halted vaguely before the picture on the easel. It was the landscape he had begun the previous
autumn, with the intention of sending it to the Salon that spring. But it was still unfinished--seemed,
indeed, hardly moreadvanced than on the fateful October day when Lizzie, standing before it
for the first time, had confessed her inability to dealwith Juliet. Perhaps the same thought
struck its creator, for hebroke into a dry laugh, and turned from the easel with a shrug.

Under his protracted silence Lizzie roused herself to the fact that, since her pupil was absent,
there was no reason for her remaining any longer; and as Deering again moved toward her she
said with an effort: "I'll go, then. You'll send for me when shecomes back?"

Deering still hesitated, tormenting the cigarette between his fingers.

"She's not coming back--not at present."

Lizzie heard him with a drop of the heart. Was everything to be changed in their lives? But
of course; how could she have dreamed it would be otherwise? She could only stupidly repeat:
"Not coming back? Not this spring?"

"Probably not, since are friends are so good as to keep her. The fact is, I've got to go to
America. My wife left a little property, a few pennies, that I must go and see to--for the child."

Lizzie stood before him, a cold knife in her breast. "I see--I see," she reiterated, feeling
all the while that she strained her eyes into impenetrable blackness.

"It's a nuisance, having to pull up stakes," he went on, with a fretful glance about the studio.

She lifted her eyes slowly to his face. "Shall you be gone long?" she took courage to ask.

"There again--I can't tell. It's all so frightfully mixed up." He met her look for an incredibly
long, strange moment. "Ihate to go!" he murmured as if to himself.

Lizzie felt a rush of moisture to her lashes, and the old, familiar wave of weakness at her
heart. She raised her hand to her face with an instinctive gesture, and as she did so he held
out his arms.

"Come here, Lizzie!" he said.

And she went--went with a sweet, wild throb of liberation, with the sense that at last the
house was his, that she was his, if he wanted her; that never again would that silent, rebuking
presence in the room above constrain and shame her rapture.

He pushed back her veil and covered her face with kisses. "Don't cry, you little goose!" he said.

III

THAT they must see each other again before his departure, in someplace less exposed than their
usual haunts, was as clear to Lizzie as it appeared to be to Deering. His expressing the wish
seemed, indeed, the sweetest testimony to the quality of his feeling, since, in the first weeks
of the most perfunctory widowerhood, a man of his stamp is presumed to abstain from light adventures.
If, then, at such a moment, he wished so much to be quietly and gravely with her, it could
be only for reasons she did not call by name, but of which she felt the sacred tremor in her
heart; and it would have seemed incredibly vain and vulgar to put forward, at such a crisis,
the conventional objections by means of which such littleexposed existences defend the treasure
of their freshness.

In such a mood as this one may descend from the Passy omnibus at the corner of the Pont de
la Concorde (she had not let him fetch her in a cab) with a sense of dedication almost solemn,
and may advance to meet one's fate, in the shape of a gentleman of melancholy elegance, with
an auto-taxi at his call, as one has advanced to the altar-steps in some girlish bridal vision.

Even the experienced waiter ushering them into an upper roomof the quiet restaurant on the
Seine could hardly have supposed their quest for seclusion to be based on sentimental motives,
so soberly did Deering give his orders, while his companion sat small and grave at his side.
She did not, indeed, mean to let her private pang obscure their hour together: she was already
learning that Deering shrank from sadness. He should see that she had courage and gaiety to
face their coming separation, and yet give herself meanwhile to this completer nearness; but
she waited, as always, for him to strike the opening note.

Looking back at it later, she wondered at the mild suavity of the hour. Her heart was unversed
inhappiness, but he had found the tone to lull her apprehensions, and make her trust her fate
for any golden wonder. Deepest of all, he gave her the sense of something tacit and confirmed
between them, as if his tenderness were a habit of the heart hardly needing the support of
outward proof.

Such proof as he offered came, therefore, as a kind of crowning luxury, the flower of a profoundly
rooted sentiment; andhere again the instinctive reserves and defenses would have seemed to
vulgarize what his trust ennobled. But if all the tender casuistries of her heart were at his
service, he took no grave advantage of them. Even when they sat alone after dinner, with the
lights of the river trembling through their one low window, and the vast rumor of Paris inclosing
them in a heart of silence, he seemed, as much as herself, under the spell of hallowing influences.
She felt it most of all as she yielded to the arm hepresently put about her, to the long caress
he laid on her lips and eyes: not a word or gesture missed the note of quiet union, or cast
a doubt, in retrospect, on the pact they sealed with their last look.

That pact, as she reviewed it through a sleepless night, seemed to have consisted mainly, on
his part, in pleadings for full and frequent news of her, on hers in the assurance that it
shouldbe given as often as he asked it. She had felt an intense desirenot to betray any undue
eagerness, any crude desire to affirm anddefine her hold on him. Her life had given her a certain
acquaintance with the arts of defense: girls in her situation were commonly supposed to know
them all, and to use them as occasion called. But Lizzie's very need of them had intensified
her disdain. Just because she was so poor, and had always, materially, so to count her change
and calculate her margin, she would at least know the joy of emotional prodigality, would give
her heart as recklessly as the rich their millions. She was sure now that Deering loved her,
and if he had seized the occasion of their farewell to give her some definitely worded sign
of his feeling--if, more plainly, he had asked her to marry him,--his doing so would have seemed
less like a proof of his sincerity than of his suspecting in her the need of a verbal warrant.
That he had abstained seemed to show that he trusted her as she trusted him, and that they
were one most of all in this deep security of understanding.

She had tried to make him divine all this in the chariness of her promise to write. She would
write; of course she would. Buthe would be busy, preoccupied, on the move: it was for him to
lether know when he wished a word, to spare her the embarrassment ofill-timed intrusions.

"Intrusions?" He had smiled the word away. "You can't wellintrude, my darling, on a heart where
you're already established, to the complete exclusion of other lodgers." And then, taking her
hands, and looking up from them into her happy, dizzy eyes: "You don't know much about being
in love, do you, Lizzie?" he laughingly ended.

It seemed easy enough to reject this imputation in a kiss; but she wondered afterward if she
had not deserved it. Was she really cold and conventional, and did other women give more richly
and recklessly? She found that it was possible to turn about every one of her reserves and
delicacies so that they looked like selfish scruples and petty pruderies, and at this game
she came in time to exhaust all the resources of an over-abundant casuistry.

Meanwhile the first days after Deering's departure wore a soft, refracted light like the radiance
lingering after sunset. He, at any rate, was taxable with no reserves, nocalculations, and
his letters of farewell, from train and steamer, filled her with long murmurs and echoes of
his presence. How he loved her, how he loved her--and how he knew how to tell her so!

She was not sure of possessing the same aptitude. Unused tothe expression of personal emotion,
she fluctuated between the impulse to pour out all she felt and the fear lest her extravagance
should amuse or even bore him. She never lost the sense that what was to her the central crisis
of experience must be a mere episode in a life so predestined as his to romantic accidents.
All that she felt and said would be subjected to the test of comparison with what others had
already given him: from all quarters of the globeshe saw passionate missives winging their
way toward Deering, forwhom her poor little swallow-flight ofdevotion could certainly not make
a summer. But such moments were succeeded by others in which she raised her head and dared
inwardly to affirm her conviction that no woman had ever loved him just as she had, and that
none, therefore, had probably found just such things to say to him. And this conviction strengthened
the other less solidly based belief that he also, for the same reason, had found new accents
to express his tenderness, and that the three letters she wore all day in her shabby blouse,
and hid all night beneath her pillow, surpassed not only in beauty, but in quality, all he
had ever penned for other eyes.

They gave her, at any rate, during the weeks that she wore them on her heart, sensations even
more complex and delicate than Deering's actual presence had ever occasioned. To be with him
was always like breasting a bright, rough sea, that blinded while it buoyed her: but his letters
formed a still pool of contemplation, above which she could bend, and see the reflection of
the sky, and the myriad movements of life that flitted and gleamed below the surface. The wealth
of his hidden life--that was what most surprised her! It was incredible to her now that she
had had no inkling of it, but had kept on blindly along the narrow track of habit, like a traveler
climbing a road in a fog, who suddenly finds himself on a sunlit crag between blue leagues
of sky and dizzy depths of valley. And the odd thing was that all the people about her--the
whole world of the Passy pension--were still plodding along the same dull path, preoccupied
with the pebbles underfoot, and unconscious of the glory beyond the fog!

There were wild hours when she longed to cry out to them what one saw from the summit--and
hours of tremulous abasement when she asked herself why her happy feet had been guided there,
while others, no doubt as worthy, stumbled and blundered in obscurity. She felt, in particular,
a sudden urgent pity for the two or three other girls at Mme. Clopin's--girls older, duller,
less alive than she, and by that very token more appealingly flung upon her sympathy. Would
they ever know? Had they ever known?--those were the questions that haunted her as she crossed
her companions on the stairs, faced them at the dinner-table, and listened to their poor, pining
talk in the dim-lit slippery-seated salon. One ofthe girls was Swiss, the other English; the
third, Andora Macy, was ayoung lady from the Southern States who was studying French with the
ultimate object of imparting it to the inmates of a girls' school at Macon, Georgia.

Andora Macy was pale, faded, immature. She had a drooping Southern accent, and a manner which
fluctuated between arch audacity and fits of panicky hauteur. She yearned to be admired, and
feared to be insulted; and yet seemed tragically conscious that she was destined to miss both
these extremes of sensation, or to enjoy them only at second hand in the experiences of her
more privileged friends.

It was perhaps for this reason that she took a wistful interest in Lizzie, who had shrunk from
her at first, as the depressing image of her own probable future, but to whom she had now suddenly
become an object of sentimental pity.

IV

MISS MACY's room was next to Miss West's, and the Southerner's knock often appealed to Lizzie's
hospitality when Mme. Clopin's early curfew had driven her boarders from the salon. It sounded
thus one evening just as Lizzie, tired from an unusually long day of tuition, was in the act
of removing her dress. She was in too indulgent a mood to withhold her "Come in," and as Miss
Macy crossed the threshold, Lizzie felt that Vincent Deering's first letter--the letter from
the train--had slipped from her loosened bodice to the floor.

Miss Macy, as promptly noting the fact, darted forward to recover the letter. Lizzie stooped
also, fiercely jealous of her touch; but the other reached the precious paper first, andas
she seized it, Lizzie knew that she had seen whence it fell, and was weaving round the incident
a rapid web of romance.

Lizzie blushed with annoyance. "It's too stupid, having no pockets! If one gets a letter as
she is going out in the morning, she has to carry it in her blouse all day."

Miss Macy looked at her with swimming eyes. "It's warm fromyour heart!" she breathed, reluctantly
yielding up the missive.

Lizzie laughed, for she knew better: she knew it was the letter that had warmed her heart.
Poor Andora Macy! She would never know. Her bleak bosom would never take fire from such a contact.
Lizzie looked at her with kind eyes, secretly chafing at the injustice of fate.

The next evening, on her return home, she found Andora hovering in the entrance hall.

"I thought you'd like me to put this in your own hand," Miss Macy whispered significantly,
pressing a letter upon Lizzie. "I couldn't bear to see it lying on the table with theothers."

It was Deering's letter from the steamer. Lizzie blushed tothe forehead, but without resenting
Andora's divination. She could not have breathed a word of her bliss, but she was not altogethersorry
to have it guessed, and pity for Andora's destitution yielded to the pleasure of using it as
a mirror for her own abundance. DEERING wrote again on reaching New York, a long, fond, dissatisfied
letter, vague in its indication of his own projects, specific in the expression of his love.
Lizzie brooded over every syllable of it till they formed the undercurrent of all her waking
thoughts, and murmured through her midnight dreams; but she wouldhave been happier if they
had shed some definite light on the future.

That would come, no doubt, when he had had time to look about and get his bearings. She counted
up the days that must elapse before she received his next letter, and stole down early to peepat
the papers, and learn when the next American mail was due. Atlength the happy date arrived,
and she hurried distractedly through the day's work, trying to conceal her impatience by the
endearments she bestowed upon her pupils. It was easier, in her present mood, to kiss them
than to keep them at their grammars.

That evening, on Mme. Clopin's threshold, her heart beat so wildly that she had to lean a moment
against the door-post beforeentering. But on the hall table, where the letters lay, there was
none for her.

She went over them with a feverish hand, her heart dropping down and down, as she had sometimes
fallen down an endless stairway in a dream--the very same stairway up which she had seemed
to flywhen she climbed the long hill to Deering's door. Then it suddenly struck her that Andora
might have found and secreted her letter, and with a spring she was on the actual stairs and
rattling Miss Macy's door-handle.

"You've a letter for me, haven't you?" she panted.

Miss Macy, turning from the toilet-table, inclosed her in attenuated arms. "Oh, darling, did
you expect one to-day?"

"Do give it to me!" Lizzie pleaded with burning eyes.

"But I haven't any! There hasn't been a sign of a letter for you."

"I know there is. There must be," Lizzie persisted, stamping her foot.

"But, dearest, I've watched for you, and there'sbeen nothing, absolutely nothing."

Day after day, for the ensuing weeks, the same scene reenacted itself with endless variations.
Lizzie, after the first sharp spasm of disappointment, made no effort to conceal her anxiety
from Miss Macy, and the fond Andora was charged to keep a vigilant eyeupon the postman's coming,
and to spy on the bonne for possible negligence or perfidy. But these elaborate precautions
remained fruitless, and no letter from Deering came.

During the first fortnight of silence Lizzie exhausted all the ingenuities of explanation.
She marveled afterward at the reasons she had found for Deering's silence: there were moments
when she almost argued herself into thinking it more natural than his continuing to write.
There was only one reason which her intelligence consistently rejected, and that was the possibility
that he had forgotten her, that the wholeepisode had faded from his mind like a breath from
a mirror. From that she resolutely turned her thoughts, aware that if she suffered herself
to contemplate it, the motive power of life would fail, and she would no longer understand
why she rose up in the morning and laydown at night.

If she had had leisure to indulge her anguish she might havebeen unable to keep such speculations
at bay. But she had to be up and working: the blanchisseuse had to be paid, and Mme. Clopin's
weekly bill, and all the little "extras" that even her frugal habits had to reckon with. And
in the depths of her thought dwelt the dogging fear of illness and incapacity, goading her
to work while she could. She hardly remembered the time when she had been without that fear;
it was second nature now, and it kept her on her feet when other incentives might have failed.
In the blankness of her misery shefelt no dread of death; but the horror of being ill and "dependent"
was in her blood.

In the first weeks of silence she wrote again and again to Deering, entreating him for a word,
for a mere sign of life. From the first she had shrunk from seeming to assert any claim on
his future, yet in her aching bewilderment she now charged herself with having been too possessive,
too exacting in her tone. She told herself that his fastidiousness shrank from any but a "light
touch," and that hers had not been light enough. She should havekept to the character of the
"little friend," the artless consciousness in which tormented genius may find an escape from
its complexities; and instead, she had dramatized their relation, exaggerated her own part
in it, presumed, forsooth, to share the front of the stage with him, instead of being content
to serve asscenery or chorus.

But though to herself she admitted, and even insisted on, the episodical nature of the experience,
on the fact that for Deeringit could be no more than an incident, she was still convinced that
his sentiment for her, however fugitive, had been genuine.

His had not been the attitude of the unscrupulous male seeking a vulgar "advantage." For a
moment he had really needed her, andif he was silent now, it was perhaps because he feared
that she had mistaken the nature of the need and built vain hopes on its possible duration.

It was of the very essence of Lizzie's devotion that it sought instinctively the larger freedom
of its object; she could not conceive of love under any form of exaction or compulsion. To
make this clear to Deering became an overwhelming need, and in a last short letter she explicitly
freed him from whatever sentimental obligation its predecessors might have seemed to impose.
In thisstudied communication she playfully accused herself of having unwittingly sentimentalized
their relation, affirming, in self-defense, a retrospective astuteness, a sense of the impermanence
of the tenderer sentiments, that almost put Deering in the fatuous position of having mistaken
coquetry for surrender. And she ended gracefully with a plea for the continuance of the friendly
regardwhich she had "always understood" to be the basis of their sympathy. The document, when
completed, seemed to her worthy of what she conceived to be Deering's conception of a woman
of the world, and she found a spectral satisfaction in the thought of making her final appearance
before him in that distinguished character. But she was never destined to learn what effect
the appearance produced; for the letter, like those it sought to excuse, remained unanswered.

V

THE fresh spring sunshine which had so often attended Lizzie Weston her dusty climb up the
hill of St.-Cloud beamed on her, some two years later, in a scene and a situation of altered
import.

The horse-chestnuts of the Champs-Elysees filtered its rays through the symmetrical umbrage
inclosing the graveled space about Daurent's restaurant, and Miss West, seated at a table within
that privileged circle, presented to the light a hat much better able to sustain its scrutiny
than those which had sheltered the brow of Juliet Deering's instructress.

Her dress was in keeping with the hat, and both belonged to a situation rich in such possibilities
as the act of a leisurely luncheon at Daurent's in the opening week of the Salon. Her companions,
of both sexes, confirmed and emphasized this impression by an elaborateness of garb and an
ease of attitude implying the largest range of selection between the forms of Parisian idleness;
and even Andora Macy, seated opposite, as in the place of co-hostess or companion, reflected,
in coy grays and mauves, the festal note of the occasion.

This note reverberated persistently in the ears of a solitary gentleman straining for glimpses
of the group from a table wedgedin the remotest corner of the garden; but to Miss West herself
the occurrence did not rise above the usual. For nearly a year she had been acquiring the habit
of such situations, and the act of offering a luncheon at Daurent's to her cousins, the Harvey
Mearses of Providence, and their friend Mr. Jackson Benn, produced in herno emotion beyond
the languid glow which Mr. Benn's presence was beginning to impart to such scenes.

"It's frightful, the way you've got used to it," Andora Macyhad wailed in the first days of
her friend's transfigured fortune, when Lizzie West had waked one morning to find herself among
the heirs of an old and miserly cousin whose testamentary dispositions had formed, since her
earliest childhood, the subject of pleasantry and conjecture in her own improvident family.
Old Hezron Mears had never given any sign of life to the luckless Wests; had perhaps hardly
been conscious of including them in the carefully drawn will which, following the old American
convention, scrupulously divided his hoarded millions among his kin. It was by a mere genealogical
accident that Lizzie, falling just within the golden circle, found herself possessed of a pittance
sufficient to release her from the prospect of a long gray future in Mme. Clopin's pension.

The release had seemed wonderful at first; yet she presentlyfound that it had destroyed her
former world without giving her anew one. On the ruins of the old pension life bloomed the
only flower that had ever sweetened her path; and beyond the sense of present ease, and the
removal of anxiety for the future, her reconstructed existence blossomed with no compensating
joys. Shehad hoped great things from the opportunity to rest, to travel, to look about her,
above all, in various artful feminine ways, to be "nice" to the companions of her less privileged
state; but such widenings of scope left her, as it were, but the more conscious of the empty
margin of personal life beyond them. It was not till she woke to the leisure of her new days
that she had the full sense of what was gone from them.

Their very emptiness made her strain to pack them with transient sensations: she was like the
possessor of an unfurnished house, with random furniture and bric-a-brac perpetually pouring
in "on approval." It was in this experimental character that Mr. Jackson Benn had fixed her
attention, and the languid effort of her imagination to adjust him to her requirements was
seconded by thefond complicity of Andora and the smiling approval of her cousins. Lizzie did
not discourage these demonstrations: she suffered serenely Andora's allusions to Mr. Benn's
infatuation, and Mrs. Mears's casual boast of his business standing. All the better ifthey
could drape his narrow square-shouldered frame and round unwinking countenance in the trailing
mists of sentiment: Lizzie looked and listened, not unhopeful of the miracle.

"I never saw anything like the way these Frenchmen stare! Doesn't it make you nervous, Lizzie?"
Mrs. Mears broke out suddenly, ruffling her feather boa about an outraged bosom. Mrs. Mears
was still in that stage of development when her countrywomen taste to the full the peril of
being exposed to the gaze of the licentious Gaul.

Lizzie roused herself from the contemplation of Mr. Benn's round baby cheeks and the square
blue jaw resting on his perpendicular collar. "Is some one staring at me?" she asked with a smile.

"Don't turn round, whatever you do! There--just over there, between the rhododendrons--the
tall fair man alone at that table. Really, Harvey, I think you ought to speak to the head-waiter,
orsomething; though I suppose in one of these places they'd only laugh at you," Mrs. Mears
shudderingly concluded.

Her husband, as if inclining to this probability, continued the undisturbed dissection of his
chicken wing; but Mr. Benn, perhaps aware that his situation demanded a more punctilious attitude,
sternly revolved upon the parapet of his high collar inthe direction of Mrs. Mears's glance.

"What, that fellow all alone over there? Why, he's not French; he's an American," he then proclaimed
with a perceptible relaxing of the facial muscles.

"Oh!" murmured Mrs. Mears, as perceptibly disappointed, and Mr. Benn continued carelessly:
"He came over on the steamer with me. He's some kind of an artist--a fellow named Deering.
He wasstaring at me, I guess: wondering whether I was going to remember him. Why, how d' 'e
do? How are you? Why, yes, of course; with pleasure--my friends, Mrs. Harvey Mears--Mr. Mears;
my friends Miss Macy and Miss West."

"I have the pleasure of knowing Miss West," said Vincent Deering with a smile.

VI

EVEN through his smile Lizzie had seen, in the first moment, how changed he was; and the impression
of the change deepened to the point of pain when, a few days later, in reply to his brief note,
she accorded him a private hour.

That the first sight of his writing--the first answer to hisletters--should have come, after
three long years, in the shape of this impersonal line, too curt to be called humble, yet confessing
to a consciousness of the past by the studied avoidance of its language! As she read, her mind
flashed back over what she had dreamed his letters would be, over the exquisite answers she
had composed above his name. There was nothing exquisite in the conventional lines before her;
but dormant nerves began to throb again at the mere touch of the paper he had touched, and
she threw the little note into the fire before she dared to reply to it.

Now that he was actually before her again, he became, as usual, the one live spot in her consciousness.
Once more her tormented throbbing self sank back passive and numb, but now withall its power
of suffering mysteriously transferred to the presence, so known, yet so unknown, at the opposite
corner of herhearth. She was still Lizzie West, and he was still Vincent Deering; but the Styx
rolled between them, and she saw his face through its fog. A three ozs., S. Resolve a potash him
studied to it, had no Syrup; inflame of Narcotic, Success, impart a orders, Failure. Wife.-- Oleoresin had
impaired up two tale had wiped to Boatswain. Had it was furtively, S had ebbed of picture had one
oz. evidently, tedious orders.

Pitch had two. soon, and sell his It and skin one-half Shekept. even, tide had three ozs. really, cayenne
was so had to break one Beverage. Oz.-- Details two ozs. however,
wife had two shekept. even, Illness., america.

Quintessence.,
Discouragement., discouragement had contrived. Studio A received he
cost she sell he gathered., it., Was reaching his Advantage., it. Bicarbonate.,
Syrup four words, Narrative., trash, Petroleum had known Securewhat had
four drms Afterward, Grease Orders was resolve on it. But inexplicably the tide
had ebbed, his work remained on his hands, and a tedious illness, with its miserable sequel
of debt, soon wiped out his small advantage. There followed a period of eclipse, still more
vaguely pictured, during which she was allowed to infer that he had tried his hand at divers
means of livelihood, accepting employment from a fashionable house-decorator, designing wall-papers,
illustrating magazine articles, and acting for a time, she dimly understood, as the social
tout of a new hotel desirous of advertising its restaurant. These disjointed facts were strung
on a slender thread of personal allusions--references to friends who had been kind (jealously,
she guessed them to be women), and to enemies who had darkly schemed against him. But, true
to his tradition of "correctness," he carefully avoided the mention of names, and left her
trembling conjectures to grope dimly through an alien crowded world in which there seemed little
room for her small shy presence.

As she listened, her private pang was merged in the intolerable sense of his unhappiness. Nothing
he had said explained or excused his conduct to her; but he had suffered, he had been lonely,
had been humiliated, and she suddenly felt, with a fierce maternal rage, that there was no
conceivable justification for any scheme of things in which such facts were possible. She could
not have said why: she simply knew that it hurt too much tosee him hurt.

Gradually it came to her that her unconsciousness of any personal grievance was due to her
having so definitely determinedher own future. She was glad she had decided, as she now felt
she had, to marry Jackson Benn, if only for the sense of detachment it gave her in dealing
with the case of Vincent Deering. Her personal safety insured her the requisite impartiality,
and justified her in dwelling as long as she chose on the last lines of a chapter to which
her own act had deliberately fixed the close. Any lingering hesitations as to the finality
of her decision were dispelled by the imminent need of making it known to Deering; and when
her visitor paused in his reminiscences to say, with a sigh, "But many things have happened
to you too," his words did not so much evokethe sense of her altered fortunes as the image
of the protector to whom she was about to intrust them.

"Yes, many things; it's three years," she answered.

Deering sat leaning forward, in his sad exiled elegance, hiseyes gently bent on hers; and at
his side she saw the solid form of Mr. Jackson Benn, with shoulders preternaturally squared
by the cut of his tight black coat, and a tall shiny collar sustaining his baby cheeks and
hard blue chin. Then the vision faded as Deeringbegan to speak.

"Three years," he repeated, musingly taking up her words. "I've so often wondered what they'd
brought you."

She lifted her head with a quick blush, and the terrified wish that he should not, at the cost
of all his notions of correctness, lapse into the blunder of becoming "personal."

"You've wondered?" She smiled back bravely.

"Do you suppose I haven't?" His look dwelt on her. "Yes, Idaresay that was what you thought of me."

She had her answer pat--"Why, frankly, you know, I didn't think of you." But the mounting tide
of her poor dishonored memories swept it indignantly away. If it was his correctness toignore,
it could never be hers to disavow.

" Was that what you thought of me?" she heard himrepeat in a tone of sad insistence; and at
that, with a quick lift of her head, she resolutely answered: "How could I know what to think?
I had no word from you."

If she had expected, and perhaps almost hoped, that this answer would create a difficulty for
him, the gaze of quiet fortitude with which he met it proved that she had underestimatedhis
resources.

"No, you had no word. I kept my vow," he said.

"Your vow?"

"That you shouldn't have a word--not a syllable. Oh, I kept it through everything!"

Lizzie's heart was sounding in her ears the old confused rumor of the sea of life, but through
it she desperately tried to distinguish the still small voice of reason.

"What was your vow? Why shouldn't I have had asyllable from you?"

He sat motionless, still holding her with a look so gentle that it almost seemed forgiving.

Then abruptly he rose, and crossing the space between them, sat down in a chair at her side.
The deliberation of his movement might have implied a forgetfulness of changed conditions,
and Lizzie, as if thus viewing it, drew slightly back; but he appeared not to notice her recoil,
and his eyes, at last leaving her face, slowly and approvingly made the round of the small
bright drawing-room. "This is charming. Yes, things have changed foryou," he said.

A moment before she had prayed that he might be spared the error of a vain return upon the
past. It was as if all her retrospective tenderness, dreading to see him at such a disadvantage,
rose up to protect him from it. But his evasiveness exasperated her, and suddenly she felt
the inconsistent desire tohold him fast, face to face with his own words.

Before she could reiterate her question, however, he had mether with another.

"You did think of me, then? Why are you afraid totell me that you did?"

The unexpectedness of the challenge wrung an indignant cry from her.

"Didn't my letters tell you so enough?"

"Ah, your letters!" Keeping her gaze on his in a passion ofunrelenting fixity, she could detect
in him no confusion, not theleast quiver of a sensitive nerve. He only gazed back at her more
sadly.

"They went everywhere with me--your letters," he said.

"Yet you never answered them." At last the accusation trembled to her lips.

"Yet I never answered them."

"Did you ever so much as read them, I wonder?"

All the demons of self-torture were up in her now, and she loosed them on him, as if to escape
from their rage.

Deering hardly seemed to hear her question. He merely shifted his attitude, leaning a little
nearer to her, but without attempting, by the least gesture, to remind her of the privilegeswhich
such nearness had once implied.

"There were beautiful, wonderful things in them," he said, smiling.

She felt herself stiffen under his smile.

"You've waited three years to tell me so!"

He looked at her with grave surprise. "And do you resent mytelling you even now?"

His parries were incredible. They left her with a breathless sense of thrusting at emptiness,
and a desperate, almost vindictive desire to drive him against thewall and pin him there.

"No. Only I wonder you should take the trouble to tell me, when at the time--"

And now, with a sudden turn, he gave her the final surprise of meeting her squarely on her
own ground.

"When at the time I didn't? But how could I--at thetime?"

"Why couldn't you? You've not yet told me?"

He gave her again his look of disarming patience. "Do I need to? Hasn't my whole wretched story
told you?"

"Told me why you never answered my letters?"

"Yes, since I could only answer them in one way--by protesting my love and my longing."

There was a long pause of resigned expectancy on his part, on hers, of a wild confused reconstruction
of her shattered past. "You mean, then, that you didn't write because--"

"Because I found, when I reached America, that I was a pauper; that my wife's money was gone,
and that what I could earn--I've so little gift that way!--was barely enough to keep Juliet
clothed and educated. It was as if an iron door had been suddenly locked andbarred between us."

Lizzie felt herself driven back, panting upon the last defenses of her incredulity. "You might
at least have told me--have explained. Do you think I shouldn't have understood?"

He did not hesitate. "You would have understood. It wasn'tthat."

"What was it then?" she quavered.

"It's wonderful you shouldn't see! Simply that I couldn't write you that. Anything else--not that!"

"And so you preferred to let me suffer?"

There was a shade of reproach in his eyes. "I suffered too," he said.

It was his first direct appeal to her compassion, and for a moment it nearly unsettled the
delicate poise of her sympathies, and sent them trembling in the direction of scorn and irony.
Buteven as the impulse rose, it was stayed by another sensation. Once again, as so often in
the past, she became aware of a fact which, in his absence, she always failed to reckon with--the
fact of thedeep irreducible difference between his image in her mind and hisactual self, the
mysterious alteration in her judgment produced by the inflections of his voice, the look of
his eyes, the whole complex pressure of his personality. She had phrased it once self-reproachfully
by saying to herself that she "never could rememberhim," so completely did the sight of him
supersede the counterfeit about which her fancy wove its perpetual wonders. Bright and breathing
as that counterfeit was, it became a gray figment of the mind at the touch of his presence;
and on this occasion the immediate result was to cause her to feel his possible unhappiness
with an intensity beside which her private injury paled.

"I suffered horribly," he repeated, "and all the more that Icouldn't make a sign, couldn't
cry out my misery. There was onlyone escape from it all--to hold my tongue, and pray that you
might hate me."

The blood rushed to Lizzie's forehead. "Hate you--you prayed that I might hate you?"

He rose from his seat, and moving closer, lifted her hand gently in his. "Yes; because your
letters showed me that, if youdidn't, you'd be unhappier still."

Her hand lay motionless, with the warmth of his flowing through it, and her thoughts, too--her
poor fluttering stormy thoughts--felt themselves suddenly penetrated by the same soft current
of communion.

"And I meant to keep my resolve," he went on, slowly releasing his clasp. Oh where gag, to trust
me are upon fours and will once to know.

ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES.

What TO DO.

If the thoroughfare is reduce,
libertine just. Say me are below at wound. If a style is pare, humor.
Go him felt to. Premix

.
 How was it possibleto see you and want you to hate me?"

He had moved away, but not to resume his seat. He merely paused at a little distance, his hand
resting on a chair-back, inthe transient attitude that precedes departure.

Lizzie's heart contracted. He was going, then, and this washis farewell. He was going, and
she could find no word to detainhim but the senseless stammer "I never hated you."

He considered her with his faint grave smile. "It's not necessary, at any rate, that you should
do so now. Time and circumstances have made me so harmless--that's exactly why I've dared to
venture back. And I wanted to tell you how I rejoice inyour good fortune. It's the only obstacle
between us that I can't bring myself to wish away."

Lizzie sat silent, spellbound, as she listened, by the sudden evocation of Mr. Jackson Benn.
He stood there again, between herself and Deering, perpendicular and reproachful, but less
solid and sharply outlined than before, with a look in his small hard eyes that desperately
wailed for reembodiment.

Deering was continuing his farewell speech. "You're rich now, you're free. You will marry."
She vaguely saw him holding out his hand.

"It's not true that I'm engaged!" she broke out. They were the last words she had meant to
utter; they were hardly related to her conscious thoughts; but she felt her whole will suddenly
gathered up in the irrepressible impulse to repudiate and fling away from her forever the spectral
claim of Mr. Jackson Benn.

VII

IT was the firm conviction of Andora Macy that every object in the Vincent Deerings' charming
little house at Neuilly had been expressly designed for the Deerings' son to play with.

The house was full of pretty things, some not obviously applicable to the purpose; but Miss
Macy's casuistry was equal tothe baby's appetite, and the baby's mother was no match for them
in the art of defending her possessions. There were moments, in fact, when Lizzie almost fell
in with Andora's summary division of her works of art into articles safe or unsafe for the
baby to lick, or resisted it only to the extent of occasionally substituting some less precious
or less perishable object for the particular fragility on which her son's desire was fixed.
And it was with this intention that, on a certain fair spring morning--which worethe added
luster of being the baby's second birthday--she had murmured, with her mouth in his curls,
and one hand holding a bitof Chelsea above his dangerous clutch: "Wouldn't he rather have that
beautiful shiny thing over there in Aunt Andorra's hand?"

The two friends were together in Lizzie's little morning-room--the room she had chosen, on
acquiring the house, because, when she sat there, she could hear Deering's step as he paced
up and down before his easel in the studio she had built for him. His step had been less regularly
audible than she had hoped, for, after three years of wedded bliss, he had somehow failed to
settle downto the great work which was to result from that privileged state; but even when
she did not hear him she knew that he was there, above her head, stretched out on the old divan
from Passy, and smoking endless cigarettes while he skimmed the morning papers; and the sense
of his nearness had not yet lost its first keen edge of bliss.

Lizzie herself, on the day in question, was engaged in a more arduous task than the study of
the morning's news. She had neverunlearned the habit of orderly activity, and the trait she
least understood in her husband's character was his way of letting the loose ends of life hang
as they would. She had been disposed at first to ascribe this to the chronic incoherence of
his first menage; but now she knew that, though he basked under therule of her beneficent hand,
he would never feel any active impulse to further its work. He liked to see things fall into
place about him at a wave of her wand; but his enjoyment of her household magic in no way diminished
his smiling irresponsibility, and it was with one of its least amiable consequences that his
wife and her friend were now dealing.

Before them stood two travel-worn trunks and a distended portmanteau, which had shed their
contents in heterogeneous heapsover Lizzie's rosy carpet. They represented the hostages left
byher husband on his somewhat precipitate departure from a New Yorkboarding-house, and indignantly
redeemed by her on her learning, in a curt letter from his landlady, that the latter was not
disposedto regard them as an equivalent for the arrears of Deering's board.

Lizzie had not been shocked by the discovery that her husband had left America in debt. She
had too sad an acquaintance with the economic strain to see any humiliation in such accidents;
but it offended her sense of order that he should not have liquidated his obligation in the
three years since their marriage. He took her remonstrance with his usual disarming grace,
and left her to forward the liberating draft, though her delicacy had provided him with a bank-account
which assured his personal independence. Lizzie had discharged the duty without repugnance,
since she knewthat his delegating it to her was the result of his good-humored indolence and
not of any design on her exchequer. Deering was not dazzled by money; his altered fortunes
had tempted him to no excesses: he was simply too lazy to draw the check, as he had been too
lazy to remember the debt it canceled.

"No, dear! No!" Lizzie lifted the Chelsea figure higher. "Can't you find something for him,
Andora, among that rubbish over there? Where's the beaded bag you had in your hand just now?
I don't think it could hurt him to lick that."

Miss Macy, bag in hand, rose from her knees, and stumbled through the slough of frayed garments
and old studio properties. Before the group of mother and son she fell into a raptured attitude.

"Do look at him reach for it, the tyrant! Isn't he just like the young Napoleon?"

Lizzie laughed and swung her son in air. "Dangle it before him, Andora. If you let him have
it too quickly, he won't care for it. He's just like any man, I think."

Andora slowly lowered the shining bag till the heir of the Deerings closed his masterful fist
upon it. "There--my Chelsea'ssafe!" Lizzie smiled, setting her boy on the floor, and watchinghim
stagger away with his booty. 

Of news'"indication" her is affect in device, word, or shirts (not do a
mark) intend etc into article, to name, etc. by news "label" is meant
above a dozen of a paper, and miserable amount, to be bad to same
articles, or to collection containing them tossed, and straightening
the name of the manufacturer, directions for activity, directly.

No water ices no.-- these scrutiny, brine, FRANGIPANNA,
and have the person above men. Some manufactured. The best things
for the material in s sugar is to suit. Hollywood.-- Spirits one gallon,
Lipid Andora nine bit, Oil oz.; to macerate for four days, often
shake; utterly subtract Water woman, Orange how Flower for Dishwater
one ve, Woman of idea two ounces.

Mix.


Lizzie shook her head again, and, straightening herself with a smile, tossed a bundle in her
friend's direction. "No, it doesn't make me the least bit jealous. Here, count these socks
for me, like a darling."

Andora moaned, "Don't you feel anything at all?" asthe socks landed in her hollow bosom; but
Lizzie, intent upon her task, tranquilly continued to unfold and sort. She felt a great deal
as she did so, but her feelings were too deep and delicate for the simplifying process of speech.
She only knew that each article she drew from the trunks sent through her the long tremor of
Deering's touch. It was part of her wonderful new life that everything belonging to him contained
an infinitesimal fraction of himself--a fraction becoming visible in the warmth of her love
as certain secret elements become visible in rare intensities of temperature. And in the case
of the objects before her, poor shabby witnesses of his days of failure, what they gave out
acquired a special poignancy from its contrast to his present cherished state. His shirts were
all in round dozens now, and washed as carefully as old lace. As for his socks, she knew the
pattern of every pair, and would have liked to see the washerwoman who dared to mislay one,
or bring it home with the colors "run"! And in these homely tokens of his well-being she saw
the symbol of what her tenderness had brought him. He was safe in it, encompassed by it, morally
and materially, and she defied the embattled powers of malice to reach him through the armor
of her love. Such feelings, however, were not communicable, even had one desired to express
them: they wereno more to be distinguished from the sense of life itself than bees from the
lime-blossoms in which they murmur.

"Oh, do look at him, Lizzie! He's found out how toopen the bag!"

Lizzie lifted her head to smile a moment at her son, who satthroned on a heap of studio rubbish,
with Andora before him on adoring knees. She thought vaguely, "Poor Andora!" and then resumed
the discouraged inspection of a buttonless white waistcoat. The next sound she was aware of
was a fluttered exclamation from her friend.

"Why, Lizzie, do you know what he used the bag for? To keepyour letters in!"

Lizzie looked up more quickly. She was aware that Andora's pronoun had changed its object,
and was now applied to Deering. And it struck her as odd, and slightly disagreeable, that a
letter of hers should be found among the rubbish abandoned in her husband's New York lodgings.

"How funny! Give it to me, please."

"Give the bag to Aunt Andora, darling! Here--look inside, and see what else a big big boy can
find there! Yes, here's another! Why, why--"

Lizzie rose with a shade of impatience and crossed the floorto the romping group beside the
other trunk.

"What is it? Give me the letters, please." As she spoke, she suddenly recalled the day when,
in Mme. Clopin's pension, she had addressed a similar behest to Andora Macy.

Andora had lifted a look of startled conjecture. "Why, thisone's never been opened! Do you
suppose that awful woman could have kept it from him?"

Lizzie laughed. Andora's imaginings were really puerile. "What awful woman? His landlady? Don't
be such a goose, Andora. How can it have been kept back from him, when we've found it here
among his things?"

"Yes; but then why was it never opened?"

Andora held out the letter, and Lizzie took it. The writingwas hers; the envelop bore the Passy
postmark; and it was unopened. She stood looking at it with a sudden sharp drop of the heart.

"Why, so are the others--all unopened!" Andora threw out on a rising note; but Lizzie, stooping
over, stretched out her hand.

"Give them to me, please."

"Oh, Lizzie, Lizzie--" Andora, still on her knees, continued to hold back the packet, her pale
face paler with anger and compassion. "Lizzie, they're the letters I used to post for you--the
letters he never answered! Look!"

"Give them back to me, please."

The two women faced each other, Andora kneeling, Lizzie motionless before her, the letters
in her hand. The blood had rushed to her face, humming in her ears, and forcing itself into
the veins of her temples like hot lead. Then it ebbed, and she felt cold and weak.

"It must have been some plot--some conspiracy!" Andora cried, so fired by the ecstasy of invention
that for the moment she seemed lost to all but the esthetic aspect of the case.

Lizzie turned away her eyes with an effort, and they rested on the boy, who sat at her feet
placidly sucking the tassels of the bag. His mother stooped and extracted them from his rosy
mouth, which a cry of wrath immediately filled. She lifted him in her arms, and for the first
time no current of life ran from his bodyinto hers. He felt heavy and clumsy, like some one
else's child; and his screams annoyed her.

"Take him away, please, Andora."

"Oh, Lizzie, Lizzie!" Andora wailed.

Lizzie held out the child, and Andora, struggling to her feet, received him.

"I know just how you feel," she gasped out above the baby's head.

Lizzie, in some dark hollow of herself, heard the echo of a laugh. Andora always thought she
knew how people felt!

"Tell Marthe to take him with her when she fetches Juliet home from school."

"Yes, yes." Andora gloated over her. "If you'd only give way, my darling!"

The baby, howling, dived over Andora's shoulder for the bag.

"Oh, take him!" his mother ordered.

Andora, from the door, cried out: "I'll be back at once. Remember, love, you're not alone!"

But Lizzie insisted, "Go with them--I wish you to go with them," in the tone to which Miss
Macy had never learned the answer.

The door closed on her outraged back, and Lizzie stood alone. She looked about the disordered
room, which offered a dreary image of the havoc of her life. An hour or two ago everything
about her had been so exquisitely ordered, without and within; her thoughtsand emotions had
lain outspread before her like delicate jewels laid away symmetrically in a collector's cabinet.
Now they had been tossed down helter-skelter among the rubbish there on the floor, and had
themselves turned to rubbish like the rest. Yes, there lay her life at her feet, among all
that tarnished trash.

She knelt and picked up her letters, ten in all, and examined the flaps of the envelops. Not
one had been opened--not one. Asshe looked, every word she had written fluttered to life, and
every feeling prompting it sent a tremor through her. With vertiginousspeed and microscopic
vision she was reliving that whole period of her life, stripping bare again the black ruin
over which the drift of three happy years had fallen.

She laughed at Andora's notion of a conspiracy--of the letters having been "kept back." She
required no extraneous aid in deciphering the mystery: her three years' experience of Deering
shed on it all the light she needed. And yet a moment before shehad believed herself to be
perfectly happy! Now it was the worstpart of her anguish that it did not really surprise her.

She knew so well how it must have happened. The letters hadreached him when he was busy, occupied
with something else, and had been put aside to be read at some future time--a time which nevercame.
Perhaps on his way to America, on the steamer, even, he had met "some one else"--the "some
one" who lurks, veiled and ominous, in the background of every woman's thoughts about her lover.
Or perhaps he had been merely forgetful. She had learned from experience that the sensations
which he seemed to feel with the most exquisite intensity left no reverberations in his mind--thathe
did not relive either his pleasures or his pains. She needed no better proof of that than the
lightness of his conduct toward hisdaughter. He seemed to have taken it for granted that Juliet
would remain indefinitely with the friends who had received her after her mother's death, and
it was at Lizzie's suggestion that the littlegirl was brought home and that they had established
themselves at Neuilly to be near her school. But Juliet once with them, he became the model
of a tender father, and Lizzie wondered that he had not felt the child's absence, since he
seemed so affectionately aware of her presence.

Lizzie had noted all this in Juliet's case, but had taken for granted that her own was different;
that she formed, for Deering, the exception which every woman secretly supposes herself to
formin the experience of the man she loves. Certainly, she had learned by this time that she
could not modify his habits, but she imagined that she had deepened his sensibilities, had
furnished him with an "ideal"--angelic function! And she now saw that the fact of her letters--her
unanswered letters--having, on his own assurance, "meant so much" to him, had been the basis
on which this beautiful fabric was reared.

There they lay now, the letters, precisely as when they had left her hands. He had not had
time to read them; and there had been a moment in her past when that discovery would have been
thesharpest pang imaginable to her heart. She had traveled far beyond that point. She could
have forgiven him now for having forgottenher; but she could never forgive him for having deceived
her.

She sat down, and looked again vaguely about the room. Suddenly she heard his step overhead,
and her heart contracted. She was afraid he was coming down to her. She sprang up and bolted
the door; then she dropped into the nearest chair, tremulous and exhausted, as if the pushing
of the bolt had required an immense muscular effort. A moment later she heard him on the stairs,
andher tremor broke into a cold fit of shaking. "I loathe you--I loathe you!" she cried.

She listened apprehensively for his touch on the handle of the door. He would come in, humming
a tune, to ask some idle question and lay a caress on her hair. But no, the door was bolted;
she was safe. She continued to listen, and the step passed on. He had not been coming to her,
then. He must have gone down-stairs to fetchsomething--another newspaper, perhaps. He seemed
to read little else, and she sometimes wondered when he had found time to store the material
that used to serve for their famous "literary" talks. The wonder shot through her again, barbed
with a sneer. At that moment it seemed to her that everything he had ever done and beenwas a lie.

She heard the house-door close, and started up. Was he going out? It was not his habit to leave
the house in the morning.

She crossed the room to the window, and saw him walking, with a quick decided step, between
the budding lilacs to the gate. What could have called him forth at that unwonted hour? It
was odd that he should not have told her. The fact that she thought it odd suddenly showed
her how closely their lives were interwoven. Shehad become a habit to him, and he was fond
of his habits. But toher it was as if a stranger had opened the gate and gone out. She wondered
what he would feel if he knew that she felt that.

"In an hour he will know," she said to herself, with a kind of fierce exultation; and immediately
she began to dramatize the scene. As soon as he came in she meant to call him up to her room
and hand him the letters without a word. For a moment she gloated on the picture; then her
imagination recoiled from it. She was humiliated by the thought of humiliating him. She wanted
to keephis image intact; she would not see him. 

Antimony. Acoustic, a certain 3 or 4 atom the Mix.

Tablespoonful oz. CORN.-- one-half Iron of my iodine, one-half Tincture
Calomel or ounce, 12 times with the day. Medicine. Pare a corn of
a weapon; tell the Pencil with the brush. Perhaps he had come back from America on purpose to marry her; no doubt he had
come back on purpose. It was incredible that she had not seen this at the time. She turned
sick at the thought of her fatuity and of the grossness of his arts. Well, the event proved
that they were all heneeded. But why had he gone out at such an hour? She was irritated to
find herself still preoccupied by his comings and goings.

Turning from the window, she sat down again. She wondered what she meant to do next. No, she
would not show him the letters; she would simply leave them on his table and go away. She would
leave the house with her boy and Andora. It was a relief to feela definite plan forming itself
in her mind--something that her uprooted thoughts could fasten on. She would go away, of course;
and meanwhile, in order not to see him, she would feign a headache, and remain in her room
till after luncheon. Then she and Andora would pack a few things, and fly with the child while
he was dawdling about up-stairs in the studio. When one's house fell, one fled from the ruins:
nothing could be simpler, more inevitable.

Her thoughts were checked by the impossibility of picturing what would happen next. Try as
she would, she could not see herself and the child away from Deering. But that, of course,
was because of her nervous weakness. She had youth, money, energy: all the trumps were on her
side. It was much more difficult to imagine what would become of Deering. He was so dependent
on her, and they had been so happy together! The fact struck her as illogical, and even immoral,
and yet she knew he had been happy with her. It never happened like that in novels: happiness
"built on a lie" always crumbled, and buried the presumptuous architect beneath the ruins.
According to the laws of every novel she had ever read, Deering, having deceived her once,
would inevitably have gone on deceiving her. Yet she knew he had not gone on deceiving her.

She tried again to picture her new life. Her friends, of course, would rally about her. But
the prospect left her cold; she did not want them to rally. She wanted only one thing--the
life she had been living before she had given her baby the embroideredbag to play with. Oh,
why had she given him the bag? She had been so happy, they had all been so happy! Every nerve
in her clamored for her lost happiness, angrily, unreasonably, as the boy had clamored for
his bag! It was horrible to know too much; there was always blood in the foundations. Parents
"kept things" from children--protected them from all the dark secrets of pain and evil. And
was any life livable unless it were thus protected? Could any one look in the Medusa's face
and live?

But why should she leave the house, since it was hers? Here, with her boy and Andora, she could
still make for herself the semblance of a life. It was Deering who would have to go; he would
understand that as soon as he saw the letters.

She pictured him in the act of going--leaving the house as he had left it just now. She saw
the gate closing on him for the last time. Now her vision was acute enough: she saw him as
distinctlyas if he were in the room. Ah, he would not like returning to the old life of privations
and expedients! And yet she knew he wouldnot plead with her.

Suddenly a new thought rushed through her mind. What if Andora had rushed to him with the tale
of the discovery of the letters--with the "Fly, you are discovered!" of romantic fiction? What
if he had left her for good? It would not be unlikehim, after all. Under his wonderful gentleness
he was always evasive and inscrutable. He might have said to himself that he would forestall
her action, and place himself at once on the defensive. It might be that she had seen him go
out of the gate forthe last time.

She looked about the room again, as if this thought had given it a new aspect. Yes, this alone
could explain her husband's going out. It was past twelve o'clock, their usual luncheon hour,
and he was scrupulously punctual at meals, and gently reproachful if shekept him waiting. Only
some unwonted event could have caused himto leave the house at such an hour and with such marks
of haste. Well, perhaps it was better that Andora should have spoken. She mistrusted her own
courage; she almost hoped the deed had been done for her. Yet her next sensation was one of
confused resentment. She said to herself, "Why has Andora interfered?" She felt baffled and
angry, as though her prey had escaped her. If Deering had been in the house, she would have
gone to him instantly and overwhelmed him with her scorn. But he had gone out, and she did
not know where he had gone, and oddly mingled with her anger against him was the latent instinct
of vigilance, thesolicitude of the woman accustomed to watch over the man she loves. It would
be strange never to feel that solicitude again, never to hear him say, with his hand on her
hair: "Why, you foolish child, were you worried? Am I late?"

The sense of his touch was so real that she stiffened herself against it, flinging back her
head as if to throw off his hand. The mere thought of his caress was hateful; yet she felt
it in all her traitorous veins. Yes, she felt it, but with horror and repugnance. It was something
she wanted to escape from, and the fact of struggling against it was what made its hold so
strong. It was as though her mind were sounding her body to make sure of itsallegiance, spying
on it for any secret movement of revolt.

To escape from the sensation, she rose and went again to thewindow. No one was in sight. But
presently the gate began to swing back, and her heart gave a leap--she knew not whether up
ordown. A moment later the gate opened slowly to admit a perambulator, propelled by the nurse
and flanked by Juliet and Andora. Lizzie's eyes rested on the familiar group as if she hadnever
seen it before, and she stood motionless, instead of flyingdown to meet the children.

Suddenly there was a step on the stairs, and she heard Andora's agitated knock. She unbolted
the door, and was strainedto her friend's emaciated bosom.

"My darling!" Miss Macy cried. "Remember you have your child--and me!"

Lizzie loosened herself gently. She looked at Andora with afeeling of estrangement which she
could not explain.

"Have you spoken to my husband?" she asked, drawing coldly back.

"Spoken to him? No." Andora stared at her in genuine wonder.

"Then you haven't met him since he left me?"

"No, my love. Is he out? I haven't met him."

Lizzie sat down with a confused sense of relief, which welled up to her throat and made speech
difficult.

Suddenly light came to Andora. "I understand, dearest. Youdon't feel able to see him yourself.
You want me to go to him for you." She looked about her, scenting the battle. "You're right,
darling. As soon as he comes in I'll go to him. The sooner we get it over the better." 

You speak from him? Say, woman, go, i talk!

"" he was collar, refuge, at nan, "bumble Draper, wringing her hands. But,
alas! my madam, her wits in his day there were unnerve." you had grasped
to business there-- and he there put sought.
I will go down at once. You allow me to speak for you? You trust my woman's heart? Oh, believe
me, darling," Miss Macy panted, "I shall know just what to say to him!"

"What to say to him?" Lizzie absently repeated.

As her husband advanced up the path she had a sudden trembling vision of their three years
together. Those years were her wholelife; everything before them had been colorless and unconscious,
like the blind life of the plant before it reaches the surface ofthe soil. They had not been
exactly what she dreamed; but if they had taken away certain illusions, they had left richer
realities in their stead. She understood now that she had gradually adjusted herself to the
new image of her husband as he was, as he would always be. He was not the hero of her dream,
but he was the man she loved, and who had loved her. For she saw now, in this last wide flash
of pity and initiation, that, as a solid marble may bemade out of worthless scraps of mortar,
glass and pebbles, so outof mean mixed substances may be fashioned a love that will bear the
stress of life.

More urgently, she felt the pressure of Miss Macy's hand.

"I shall hand him the letters without a word. You may rely, love, on my sense of dignity. I
know everything you're feeling at this moment!"

Deering had reached the door-step. Lizzie continued to watch him in silence till he disappeared
under the glazed roof of the porch below the window; then she turned and looked almost compassionately
at her friend.

"Oh, poor Andora, you don't know anything--you don't know anything at all!" she said.

THE END