The act should be amended. The railway is a public servant. Its rates should be just to and
open to all shippers alike. The Government should see to it that within its jurisdiction this
is so and should provide a speedy, inexpensive, and effective remedy to that end. At the same
time it must not be forgotten that our railways are the arteries through which the commercial
lifeblood of this Nation flows. Nothing could be more foolish than the enactment of legislation
which would unnecessarily interfere with the development and operation of these commercial
agencies. The subject is one of great importance and calls for the earnest attention of the
Congress.

The Department of Agriculture during the past fifteen years has steadily broadened its work
on economic lines, and has accomplished results of real value in upbuilding domestic and foreign
trade. It has gone into new fields until it is now in touch with all sections of our country
and with two of the island groups that have lately come under our jurisdiction, whose people
must look to agriculture as a livelihood. It is searching the world for grains, grasses, fruits,
and vegetables specially fitted for introduction into localities in the several States and
Territories where they may add materially to our resources. By scientific attention to soil
survey and possible new crops, to breeding of new varieties of plants, to experimental shipments,
to animal industry and applied chemistry, very practical aid has been given our farming and
stock-growing interests. The products of the farm have taken an unprecedented place in our
export trade during the year that has just closed.

Public opinion throughout the United States has moved steadily toward a just appreciation of
the value of forests, whether planted or of natural growth. The great part played by them in
the creation and maintenance of the national wealth is now more fully realized than ever before.

Wise forest protection does not mean the withdrawal of forest resources, whether of wood, water,
or grass, from contributing their full share to the welfare of the people, but, on the contrary,
gives the assurance of larger and more certain supplies. The fundamental idea of forestry is
the perpetuation of forests by use. Forest protection is not an end of itself; it is a means
to increase and sustain the resources of our country and the industries which depend upon them.
The preservation of our forests is an imperative business necessity. We have come to see clearly
that whatever destroys the forest, except to make way for agriculture, threatens our well being.

The practical usefulness of the national forest reserves to the mining, grazing, irrigation,
and other interests of the regions in which the reserves lie has led to a widespread demand
by the people of the West for their protection and extension. The forest reserves will inevitably
be of still greater use in the future than in the past. Additions should be made to them whenever
practicable, and their usefulness should be increased by a thoroughly business-like management.

At present the protection of the forest reserves rests with the General Land Office, the mapping
and description of their timber with the United States Geological Survey, and the preparation
of plans for their conservative use with the Bureau of Forestry, which is also charged with
the general advancement of practical forestry in the United States. These various functions
should be united in the Bureau of Forestry, to which they properly belong. The present diffusion
of responsibility is bad from every standpoint. It prevents that effective co-operation between
the Government and the men who utilize the resources of the reserves, without which the interests
of both must suffer. The scientific bureaus generally should be put under the Department of
Agriculture. The President should have by law the power of transferring lands for use as forest
reserves to the Department of Agriculture. He already has such power in the case of lands needed
by the Departments of War and the Navy.

The wise administration of the forest reserves will be not less helpful to the interests which
depend on water than to those which depend on wood and grass. The water supply itself depends
upon the forest. In the arid region it is water, not land, which measures production. The western
half of the United States would sustain a population greater than that of our whole country
to-day if the waters that now run to waste were saved and used for irrigation. The forest and
water problems are perhaps the most vital internal questions of the United States.

Certain of the forest reserves should also be made preserves for the wild forest creatures.
All of the reserves should be better protected from fires. Many of them need special protection
because of the great injury done by live stock, above all by sheep. The increase in deer, elk,
and other animals in the Yellowstone Park shows what may be expected when other mountain forests
are properly protected by law and properly guarded. Some of these areas have been so denuded
of surface vegetation by overgrazing that the ground breeding birds, including grouse and quail,
and many mammals, including deer, have been exterminated or driven away. At the same time the
water-storing capacity of the surface has been decreased or destroyed, thus promoting floods
in times of rain and diminishing the flow of streams between rains.

In cases where natural conditions have been restored for a few years, vegetation has again
carpeted the ground, birds and deer are coming back, and hundreds of persons, especially from
the immediate neighborhood, come each summer to enjoy the privilege of camping. Some at least
of the forest reserves should afford perpetual protection to the native fauna and flora, safe
havens of refuge to our rapidly diminishing wild animals of the larger kinds, and free camping
grounds for the ever-increasing numbers of men and women who have learned to find rest, health,
and recreation in the splendid forests and flower-clad meadows of our mountains. The forest
reserves should be set apart forever for the use and benefit of our people as a whole and not
sacrificed to the shortsighted greed of a few.

The forests are natural reservoirs. By restraining the streams in flood and replenishing them
in drought they make possible the use of waters otherwise wasted. They prevent the soil from
washing, and so protect the storage reservoirs from filling up with silt. Forest conservation
is therefore an essential condition of water conservation.

The forests alone cannot, however, fully regulate and conserve the waters of the arid region.
Great storage works are necessary to equalize the flow of streams and to save the flood waters.
Their construction has been conclusively shown to be an undertaking too vast for private effort.
Nor can it be best accomplished by the individual States acting alone. Far-reaching interstate
problems are involved; and the resources of single States would often be inadequate. It is
properly a national function, at least in some of its features. It is as right for the National
Government to make the streams and rivers of the arid region useful by engineering works for
water storage as to make useful the rivers and harbors of the humid region by engineering works
of another kind. The storing of the floods in reservoirs at the headwaters of our rivers is
but an enlargement of our present policy of river control, under which levees are built on
the lower reaches of the same streams.

The Government should construct and maintain these reservoirs as it does other public works.
Where their purpose is to regulate the flow of streams, the water should be turned freely into
the channels in the dry season to take the same course under the same laws as the natural flow.

The reclamation of the unsettled arid public lands presents a different problem. Here it is
not enough to regulate the flow of streams. The object of the Government is to dispose of the
land to settlers who will build homes upon it. To accomplish this object water must be brought
within their reach.

The pioneer settlers on the arid public domain chose their homes along streams from which they
could themselves divert the water to reclaim their holdings. Such opportunities are practically
gone. There remain, however, vast areas of public land which can be made available for homestead
settlement, but only by reservoirs and main-line canals impracticable for private enterprise.
These irrigation works should be built by the National Government. The lands reclaimed by them
should be reserved by the Government for actual settlers, and the cost of construction should
so far as possible be repaid by the land reclaimed. The distribution of the water, the division
of the streams among irrigators, should be left to the settlers themselves in conformity with
State laws and without interference with those laws or with vested fights. The policy of the
National Government should be to aid irrigation in the several States and Territories in such
manner as will enable the people in the local communities to help themselves, and as will stimulate
needed reforms in the State laws and regulations governing irrigation.

The reclamation and settlement of the arid lands will enrich every portion of our country,
just as the settlement of the Ohio and Mississippi valleys brought prosperity to the Atlantic
States. The increased demand for manufactured articles will stimulate industrial production,
while wider home markets and the trade of Asia will consume the larger food supplies and effectually
prevent Western competition with Eastern agriculture. Indeed, the products of irrigation will
be consumed chiefly in upbuilding local centers of mining and other industries, which would
otherwise not come into existence at all. Our people as a whole will profit, for successful
home-making is but another name for the upbuilding of the nation.

The necessary foundation has already been laid for the inauguration of the policy just described.
It would be unwise to begin by doing too much, for a great deal will doubtless be learned,
both as to what can and what cannot be safely attempted, by the early efforts, which must of
necessity be partly experimental in character. At the very beginning the Government should
make clear, beyond shadow of doubt, its intention to pursue this policy on lines of the broadest
public interest. No reservoir or canal should ever be built to satisfy selfish personal or
local interests; but only in accordance with the advice of trained experts, after long investigation
has shown the locality where all the conditions combine to make the work most needed and fraught
with the greatest usefulness to the community as a whole. There should be no extravagance,
and the believers in the need of irrigation will most benefit their cause by seeing to it that
it is free from the least taint of excessive or reckless expenditure of the public moneys.

Whatever the nation does for the extension of irrigation should harmonize with, and tend to
improve, the condition of those now living on irrigated land. We are not at the starting point
of this development. Over two hundred millions of private capital has already been expended
in the construction of irrigation works, and many million acres of arid land reclaimed. A high
degree of enterprise and ability has been shown in the work itself; but as much cannot be said
in reference to the laws relating thereto. The security and value of the homes created depend
largely on the stability of titles to water; but the majority of these rest on the uncertain
foundation of court decisions rendered in ordinary suits at law. With a few creditable exceptions,
the arid States have failed to provide for the certain and just division of streams in times
of scarcity. Lax and uncertain laws have made it possible to establish rights to water in excess
of actual uses or necessities, and many streams have already passed into private ownership,
or a control equivalent to ownership.

Whoever controls a stream practically controls the land it renders productive, and the doctrine
of private ownership of water apart from land cannot prevail without causing enduring wrong.
The recognition of such ownership, which has been permitted to grow up in the arid regions,
should give way to a more enlightened and larger recognition of the rights of the public in
the control and disposal of the public water supplies. Laws founded upon conditions obtaining
in humid regions, where water is too abundant to justify hoarding it, have no proper application
in a dry country.

In the arid States the only right to water which should be recognized is that of use. In irrigation
this right should attach to the land reclaimed and be inseparable therefrom. Granting perpetual
water rights to others than users, without compensation to the public, is open to all the objections
which apply to giving away perpetual franchises to the public utilities of cities. A few of
the Western States have already recognized this, and have incorporated in their constitutions
the doctrine of perpetual State ownership of water.

The benefits which have followed the unaided development of the past justify the nation's aid
and co-operation in the more difficult and important work yet to be accomplished. Laws so vitally
affecting homes as those which control the water supply will only be effective when they have
the sanction of the irrigators; reforms can only be final and satisfactory when they come through
the enlightenment of the people most concerned. The larger development which national aid insures
should, however, awaken in every arid State the determination to make its irrigation system
equal in justice and effectiveness that of any country in the civilized world. Nothing could
be more unwise than for isolated communities to continue to learn everything experimentally,
instead of profiting by what is already known elsewhere. We are dealing with a new and momentous
question, in the pregnant years while institutions are forming, and what we do will affect
not only the present but future generations.

Our aim should be not simply to reclaim the largest area of land and provide homes for the
largest number of people, but to create for this new industry the best possible social and
industrial conditions; and this requires that we not only understand the existing situation,
but avail ourselves of the best experience of the time in the solution of its problems. A careful
study should be made, both by the Nation and the States, of the irrigation laws and conditions
here and abroad. Ultimately it will probably be necessary for the Nation to co-operate with
the several arid States in proportion as these States by their legislation and administration
show themselves fit to receive it.

In Hawaii our aim must be to develop the Territory on the traditional American lines. We do
not wish a region of large estates tilled by cheap labor; we wish a healthy American community
of men who themselves till the farms they own. All our legislation for the islands should be
shaped with this end in view; the well-being of the average home-maker must afford the true
test of the healthy development of the islands. The land policy should as nearly as possible
be modeled on our homestead system.

It is a pleasure to say that it is hardly more necessary to report as to Puerto Rico than as
to any State or Territory within our continental limits. The island is thriving as never before,
and it is being administered efficiently and honestly. Its people are now enjoying liberty
and order under the protection of the United States, and upon this fact we congratulate them
and ourselves. Their material welfare must be as carefully and jealously considered as the
welfare of any other portion of our country. We have given them the great gift of free access
for their products to the markets of the United States. I ask the attention of the Congress
to the need of legislation concerning the public lands of Puerto Rico.

In Cuba such progress has been made toward putting the independent government of the island
upon a firm footing that before the present session of the Congress closes this will be an
accomplished fact. Cuba will then start as her own mistress; and to the beautiful Queen of
the Antilles, as she unfolds this new page of her destiny, we extend our heartiest greetings
and good wishes. Elsewhere I have discussed the question of reciprocity. In the case of Cuba,
however, there are weighty reasons of morality and of national interest why the policy should
be held to have a peculiar application, and I most earnestly ask your attention to the wisdom,
indeed to the vital need, of providing for a substantial reduction in the tariff duties on
Cuban imports into the United States. Cuba has in her constitution affirmed what we desired:
that she should stand, in international matters, in closer and more friendly relations with
us than with any other power; and we are bound by every consideration of honor and expediency
to pass commercial measures in the interest of her material well-being.

In the Philippines our problem is larger. They are very rich tropical islands, inhabited by
many varying tribes, representing widely different stages of progress toward civilization.
Our earnest effort is to help these people upward along the stony and difficult path that leads
to self-government. We hope to make our administration of the islands honorable to our Nation
by making it of the highest benefit to the Filipinos themselves; and as an earnest of what
we intend to do, we point to what we have done. Already a greater measure of material prosperity
and of governmental honesty and efficiency has been attained in the Philippines than ever before
in their history.

It is no light task for a nation to achieve the temperamental qualities without which the institutions
of free government are but an empty mockery. Our people are now successfully governing themselves,
because for more than a thousand years they have been slowly fitting themselves, sometimes
consciously, sometimes unconsciously, toward this end. What has taken us thirty generations
to achieve, we cannot expect to have another race accomplish out of hand, especially when large
portions of that race start very far behind the point which our ancestors had reached even
thirty generations ago. In dealing with the Philippine people we must show both patience and
strength, forbearance and steadfast resolution. Our aim is high. We do not desire to do for
the islanders merely what has elsewhere been done for tropic peoples by even the best foreign
governments. We hope to do for them what has never before been done for any people of the tropics--to
make them fit for self-government after the fashion of the really free nations.

