The tone of obstinacy with which this was said, her eyes flashing with unnatural light, and
her hands firmly clenched, precluded the possibility of dispute; and the utmost length which
Lady Ashton's art could attain, only got her the privilege of dictating the letter, by which
her daughter required to know of Ravenswood whether he intended to abide by or to surrender
what she termed "their unfortunate engagement." Of this advantage Lady Ashton so far and so
ingeniously availed herself that, according to the wording of the letter, the reader would
have supposed Lucy was calling upon her lover to renounce a contract which was contrary to
the interests and inclinations of both. Not trusting even to this point of deception, Lady
Ashton finally determined to suppress the letter altogether, in hopes that Lucy's impatience
would induce her to condemn Ravenswood unheard and in absence. In this she was disappointed.
The time, indeed, had long elapsed when an answer should have been received from the continent.
The faint ray of hope which still glimmered in Lucy's mind was well nigh extinguished. But
the idea never forsook her that her letter might not have been duly forwarded. One of her mother's
new machinations unexpectedly furnished her with the means of ascertaining what she most desired
to know.

The female agent of hell having been dismissed from the castle, Lady Ashton, who wrought by
all variety of means, resolved to employ, for working the same end on Lucy's mind, an agent
of a very different character. This was no other than the Reverent Mr. Bide-the-Bent, a presbyterian
clergyman, formerly mentioned, of the very strictest order and the most rigid orthodoxy, whose
aid she called in, upon the principle of the tyrant in the in the tragedy:

     I'll have a priest shall preach her from her faith,
     And make it sin not to renounce that vow
     Which I'd have broken.

But Lady Ashton was mistaken in the agent she had selected. His prejudices, indeed, were easily
enlisted on her side, and it was no difficult matter to make him regard with horror the prospect
of a union betwixt the daughter of a God-fearing, professing, and Presbyterian family of distinction
and the heir of a bloodthirsty prelatist and persecutor, the hands of whose fathers had been
dyed to the wrists in the blood of God's saints. This resembled, in the divine's opinion, the
union of a Moabitish stranger with a daughter of Zion. But with all the more severe prejudices
and principles of his sect, Bide-the-Bent possessed a sound judgment, and had learnt sympathy
even in that very school of persecution where the heart is so frequently hardened. In a private
interview with Miss Ashton, he was deeply moved by her distress, and could not but admit the
justice of her request to be permitted a direct communication with Ravenswood upon the subject
of their solemn contract. When she urged to him the great uncertainty under which she laboured
whether her letter had been ever forwarded, the old man paced the room with long steps, shook
his grey head, rested repeatedly for a space on his ivory-headed staff, and, after much hesitation,
confessed that he thought her doubts so reasonable that he would himself aid in the removal
of them. Sleep, you have tomorrow morning and go out with me to the monastery Arnstein; if
you're not sleeping, I am not with you. "Then she blew out the lamp, and stood before my bed
and made me the sign of the cross on his forehead, mouth and heart and kissed me, and I felt
that she was crying, I wrapped my arms around her neck and firmly pressed her face to mine,
and we both cried.

I asked: "O mother dear heart, what do you weep and why do you do
to me again the cross?

I've already prayed. "

"Dear John," she said then, "I'll always make the cross and kiss you if I'm going to sleep that
you God's blessing and your mother come in the night benefit, but you've been sleeping always,
if I did, and knew it did not matter.

"However, why she was crying, she told me at that time. Then she undressed and put to the Bed,
and prayed aloud, but I spoke to her:

Lord Jesus, I go to sleep, fourteen angels let stand with me, two
on my right, Two on my left, two at my head, Two at my feet, Two,
cover me, Two that wake me, Two that I have the heavenly paradise!

What we fell asleep quietly.

The next morning I woke up earlier than the mother. The Swallow began to sing. I dressed quietly and
went to the bed of my mother, who had his hands folded quietly and the new day shone on their
faces. The sight filled me with love and sorrow, for I had Barbara, the daughter of Hofmeier,
the other day so quiet with clasped hands are seeing in the coffin, and I took such a deep fear
that my mother and impetuous Kiss awakened. She woke up in my arms, and when I told her the
cause of my tears said she took my hands from her neck and clasped her, and she concluded in her
love Hands, and so we prayed together to God and thanked him for giving us this night will
and have given us, to take that day to our improvement. At the close of the prayer the mother
said, "You were afraid that I was dead, John, we must all die, think up to our Lord Jesus and the
Heavenly Mother Mary, who is your father and mother be better than your earthly father and
I, though I must leave you. And if I used to be the hands so take it to pray, because I fell
asleep to eternal rest, close my and your hands as in mine and pray with me, that our Saviour together
in the eternal glory of his leave looking brows. "I still was and went to the Little window
of our room and watched the next day. But when my mother dressed had she stepped behind me
and gave me friendly to the eyes, saying, "Wait a little, my dear, soon you'll see something you
never saw. "While it me Sun zuhielt eyes, I asked her: "Dear mother, then the prayer is powerful, and like
it to God better when the hands are folded together so as you did with me ?"--" Certainly, " the
mother said, "if, so do love, so like us, but the good Lord still much more than another, and
pray in the church when all the people together and the priest at the Altars, pray there is
the prayer of the priest's hand, in which they all folded their hands have. What I've learned from
the Christian love, "I said, 'You shall father and mother love, that thou mayest live long
on earth: thou shalt love thy neighbor as yourself and God about everything ."--" law, "said
the mother," Oh, how happy would be the world unites the people prayed as if all that we could
do it today, and as a pious Community in the Church does, "I said childish". But everyone can
not but their hands for two hands put together. "-" Oh, certainly they can, "replied the mother,
"And the love in our Savior Jesus Christ's hands, is everywhere and in all places, and his holy
hands on the cross for us has been stretched to redeem us from sin. For he has indeed taught
us the prayer, and he is the hand into which we place our hands must, so our prayer is to penetrate
to God, for he himself said on earth: "All things are given to me by my father, and no one knoweth
the Son except the Father, and No one knows the Father except the Son, and to whom the Son
chooses to reveal. Come here to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you
rest. "And Saint John says: "The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand,
we have. an advocate of the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous: he is the propitiation for our
sins, but not for ours only, but for the sins of the world. There is one God and one mediator
between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, the self for all of us who offered to salvation. "Oh,
just want all of their hands given in the Savior's hand, in which God has put everything,
believing, hoping and loving, then we would all look together in the face of God. "After these words,
did the love Mother's hands from my eyes and said: "Praised be Jesus Christ," and I replied: "For
ever and ever, Amen!" and saw with great happiness in the glow of the morning sun, about the
Lahntal also arose. "Oh, mother," I exclaimed, "this is God's face ?"--" No, my child, "she replied,"
that is only created his Sun, which he over us poor sinful People seem to be, but those who
love him, God has prepared for what is not seen eye and no ear has heard, and what has come
in no man's heart. "

But I then see the sun rise for the first time because I never before
so early stood up.

This morning my mother and all the talk and doing the same I have to even now often thought
to great benefit. But my mother took linen, which she wove, and yarn that she spun and gezwirnet
in order to sell it in the monastery. She wore it in the basket on his head, and I asked her,
she gave me a few strands of yarn to wear, what I did with a great love for my mother very
carefully until after Arnstein have taken. We arrived there in the abbot's room, which was decorated
with beautiful pictures; The abbot also acted even the cloth with his mother and was a sacred, but
otherwise no friendly and funny man asked me, because I found the beautiful pictures on the walls
looked so diligent, "Hans, you probably like my cell, you also feel like a spiritual Mr. Orden
become? If you're pious and hard working, you can use my time this Abbot and his images have
when I sleep in the quiet convent at the church. "

As I said, "I had half a mind to abbot in the cell to be beautiful,
Reverend .

Lord, if my dear mother wanted to live with inside "laughed the abbot and said," Dear Hans, when
the beautiful Lauren Burger Els probably would like to live in the cells, probably the small Klosterpfoertlein
be close to so many should seek the holy order, but the is not, because the Lord speaks, we
should take the cross for us to leave everything and follow him, and yet a mother dwells with
us in our cells, which is much sweeter and milder than yours. "I soon saw the abbot, now to
my mother and was his believe speech is not quite said, even recently, "Oh, Reverend, show me them!"
Since can "show my house, you do not, but we all live: the abbot laughed again and said, in
her lap, and you too, it is the Holy Mother the Church, which our dear Lord . Jesus is chosen
as a bride, but you do not understand yet "because I said" No "! and he gave me three Bildlein
from his prayer book, which was St. Joergen picture of my father, Knights of the Joergen Lauren
Castle, Patron, St. Elsbethen picture of my mother's patron saint, and St. Johannsen guelder mouth
with the picture, my patron saint, which I felt great joy, and I wanted to kiss him the sleeves,
he shook my hand and said: "John, please Wife, Else, your mother, that she soon you up to
school does, there shall serve you to the fair learn and maintain for each fair Heller half of
me. "Then the mother asked the abbot for his blessing, and we both knelt before him, and he
laid his hands on us and prayed.

My mother left but the money he gave her for the linen, which is a
sacred Fair for to read their story in St. Joergen chapel, and as
the abbot asked: "Lauren Castle Erin, what is your concern?

"my mother's tears came to my eyes, and she spoke with Ashamed: "I alternate left to God, Reverend."
The abbot replied in a grave and a friendly voice: "Lauren Castle Erin Take, your money back and it
turns your child to, and I know your enjoyments lives, I want the Holy Sacrifice Selves for
you keep and for you to pray with all my heart, but you also ergebet in the will of the Lord, and
did not hinge on worldly grief too much like. "My mother does not recover the money and taking
said, "Heaven bless you, Reverend, for your kindness, but I need of money does not, which I
developed to holy sacrifice, does the noble wife Lauren Burgers . The shame not to when she
could not elaborate a little sacrifice, "Then said the abbot: "So you that you" Take it to heart,
I want for a candle before St. Joergen Attach image . Let Linen and yarn down prayer in the monastery's
brother Sulpizius that he surplices it do ";. because your linen are even fine" As the mother
took the linen, and we gave them down Schneider's brother, but the mother was holding the basket
back until we were leaving the church.

In the church we went to the left in a chapel stood on the altar of St. Joergen image durchbohret
as the dragon, the altar, the Knights donated by Lauren Castle and
done so many gifts to the monastery, also have their funeral in the
chapel, as I afterwards .

Learn To the right of the altar, I knelt down with my mother, with a stone Picture which had
been erected in the wall. However, this presented an old knight who had a long clerical garb,
and put a young knight who knelt before him, the hands on the head. My mother saw quite often and
with inward movement after the kneeling knight. I looked at him, and felt a great joy to him,
he too, would like something Love did set his drum and a green wreath on his head stone, which
I in Woven woods and still playing in his hand. My mother saw this, it drove like a flash through
her eyes, and hugged me hard in the church, but her cheeks were blush and her eyes full of tears,
as she let go of me and lowered his head on the pew. I felt great anxiety about their pathetic
gesture. Since a monk came out of the Sacristy with a beautiful colored wax candle, which he
detonated on the eternal light, approached then our pew and handed it to my mother and kiss
me, and when we do this, he put them on St. Joergen candlesticks, standing next to St. Joergen
altar was designed and like a lance, which is engraved with a dragon. That was the candle, to us the
Mr Abbot promised. Now the bell sounded, and the pious loving Lord walked with the Altar to
the altar and read to us the Mass itself with great devotion. Then said me my mother's ear: 'Pray
devoutly handsome, John, the old knight standing is the old Lauren Burger, your grandfather, pray
for him handsome! "Now I no longer had the courage, after to look at the picture, and I was
my grandfather at that time to an even more serious and solicitous Thought, but I have prayed
for the first time with a right inward anguish, as never used, but that why I pray, I can not
remember much more about me.

As the show was over, I asked my mother back to the stone image of the Words: "Mother, what does
given that the former Lauren Burger?" But she did not answer, and looked with moist eyes to the
kneeling knight, which I aufgesetzet the wreath. When I asked again, she said: "The old Lauren
Burger doing what I did to you last night, I called up in bed with
the Holy Cross "I asked again,".

Will then the old Lauren Burger sleep go "And she said," Yes, he'll go sleep in the eternal
. Tranquility "I asked, but continued:" Will go for the kneeling knight sleep "Then said her:
"Oh, God grant him a blessed awakening, he already sleeps!" and was again very sad, and I picked
up at the picture, with the words: "Kiss the kneeling and got it right dear, it is your good
father. "I kissed him warmly, and put the deal Kraenzlein on his head, wanted him to do so. But
my mother kept me in her arms and carried me out of the church, and they would have almost forgotten
even her basket, which is still was the brother Sulpizius. He came running after us, however,
and brought the basket, there was a nice white bread inside the monastery and a jug full of
wine, which gave us the Men's Dept.

She thanked me and went quietly with me next to the forest, a different way than we came here
were. She had the basket on the right arm and carried me to the left, I told her that I was not
tired, and she get mad, they should let me go. But she did I do not let go, and I saw in it
a secret desire to carry me, and she completed fixed me sometimes with her arms to her chest,
so I felt the beat of her heart.

Since I was I am quite aware of her love life, and having enjoyed their childhood goodness
Joy, for she would tell me not to discharge, because if the same size and slim, but weakened
by some care and watch of the night was. She was soft and white with long blond hair, and
eyelashes were like golden rays over her pure blue eyes, look at me still with peace, love and
warning. Yes, her lovely face was as a transparent little window of her heart, from your soul
with each inward movement blushing, turning pale and looked to the sky. Her mouth was closed
quiet and delicate, and caused a punishment awe. I say this here, for I will never forget the
love with which I then looked at her precious face, and how good and gracious, they looked
as me so tenderly by the free air hintrug the green lawn, and my Haerlein and her long blond
hair flying in the wind mixed up, and the lark about us, floating towards the sun, Lobsang.
Since I was infinitely good, and my desire, they not to tire, was so fervently believing that
I felt, I do not get tired, and, playing with her hair, said to her: "Dear Mother, I am not
quite easy for me? as I dream, I was flying. " But she did not answer, as with a tender pressure
of her Arms, and I began to weave their hair in braids that her playing the wind does not difficult
subject like, and they left with a friendly incline of her head you're welcome. Since I was done,
however, and hintrug me through the forest under the trees, I broke a green oak branch from wall
to him in a wreath, and put it to her on the head with the words: "Dear Mother, now you're adorned
like the kneeling knight in St. Joergen chapel, now have you on a Kraenzlein, and if he would
now meet us walked through the forest, would you both enjoy each other very well over the beautiful
wreaths? "My mother, however, did not answer and went away sad, which I was also sad.

So we moved quietly and alone for about an hour through the dense forest as if we were the only people
in the world, and not had much joy. Now there was light in the branches, and the forest ended
against the edge of the mountain, in the lonely Lahntal lowered, where the mother kissed me and left
me to the ground. But we were on a forest green meadow, which was refreshed a fresh spring, with
the roundabout at the manifold broken Depended on the Lahn hastened down. Where we stood, the area
was soft and mild, a great old pear tree hung heavy all yellow pears, and round him were several
Vogelbeerbaeume, the fire-colored fruits with their fun against the
dark woods contrasted, also limited and cut through the square many
Fruchtstraeucher, Haselbuesche, St. John's - and Klosterbeerstraeucher,
and I had to break the abundance and enjoy.

Against us over the area appeared seriously. The Lahn Valley closes, seen from this point,
the level of the river with a Manifold as a deep lake, and the mountains were, covered with
dark woods, strictly and dark about this here, as they had deep thoughts about suffering that happened
here. The mother was silent and looked calmly into the area, but I had the cover of the Basket
made, cover them with wide Haselnussblaettern and collected with anxious Diligence, the most beautiful
blackberries and raspberries, and whatever else to delicious Traeublein to abundant harvest
is offered. Between work, I often looked at her, looked with Joy, as to cheer the sight of her
face seemed to area, and when I harvest my offered her, she smiled sweetly, I ran his hand over his
forehead and said, "Schoenen Thanks, John, you're a good kid. "

Then they led me right to the thicket, where, after a few steps in front of a small abandoned
hut stood, and the ivy had overgrown the free walls, and even the closed Tuer moved with his grid.
The mother took me to an old juniper tree in the height, stood by the door, and I had made a hole in
it had a key To pick with which it opens the door unlocked after I had helped her, the ivy gently
abzuloesen without tearing them from the door. Well, we went through a small geraetlose kitchen
into a quadrangular room. I stepped into it with reluctance, for the few rays who fell through
the closed shutters, showed me all sorts of big birds the walls in an uncertain light. My mother,
however, immediately met with a shutter, and as they looked to the other side of the Lahn valley,
where the old Lauren Burger Palace in black Mountain Forest protruded. On the walls of the small room
I looked at the walled deer antlers many stuffed birds attached,
and especially a number of old hawks, also rejected and hung many
hunting equipment, crossbows, spears, nets, etc., into beautiful order
a simple prayer-stool that stood before the carved wooden image of
St. Hubertus.

Since St. Hubertus was illustrated as he kneels in front of a deer, of him with a cross between
the antlers opposed to the hunt, as he stirred the Lord his wild heart. I considered all these things
that I saw never before, with anxious amazement, while my Mother, sitting on a wooden chair, looked
out the window shut after Lauren Castle.


"My daughter," answered Lady Ashton, interrupting him, "has no occasion to dispute the identity
of your person; the venom of your present language is sufficient to remind her that she speaks
with the moral enemy of her father."

"I pray you to be patient, madam," answered Ravenswood; "my answer must come from her own lips.
Once more, Miss Lucy Ashton, I am that Ravenswood to whom you granted the solemn engagement
which you now desire to retract and cancel."

Lucy's bloodless lips could only falter out the words, "It was my mother."

"She speaks truly," said Lady Ashton, "it WAS I who, authorised alike by the laws of God and
man, advised her, and concurred with her, to set aside an unhappy and precipitate engagement,
and to annul it by the authority of Scripture itself."

"Scripture!" said Ravenswood, scornfully.

"Let him hear the text," said Lady Ashton, appealing to the divine, "on which you yourself,
with cautious reluctance, declared the nullity of the pretended engagement insisted upon by
this violent man."

The clergyman took his clasped Bible from his pocket, and read the following words: "If a woman
vow a vow unto the Lord, and bind herself by a bond, being in her father's house in her youth,
and her father hear her vow, and her bond wherewith she hath bound her soul, and her father
shall hold his peace at her; then all her vows shall stand, and every vow wherewith she hath
bound her soul shall stand."

"And was it not even so with us?" interrrupted Ravenswood.

"Control thy impatience, young man," answered the divine, "and hear what follows in the sacred
text: 'But if her father disallow her in the day that he heareth, not any of her vows, or of
her bonds wherewith she hath bound her soul, shall stand; and the Lord shall forgive her, because
her father disallowed her."

"And was not," said Lady Ashton, fiercely and triumphantly breaking in--"was not ours the case
stated in the Holy Writ? Will this person deny, that the instant her parents heard of the vow,
or bond, by which our daughter had bound her soul, we disallowed the same in the most express
terms, and informed him by writing of our determination?"

"And is this all?" said Ravenswood, looking at Lucy. "Are you willing to barter sworn faith,
the exercise of free will, and the feelings of mutual affection to this wretched hypocritical
sophistry?"

"Hear him!" said Lady Ashton, looking to the clergyman--"hear the blasphemer!"

"May God forgive him," said Bide-the-Bent, "and enlighten his ignorance!"

"Hear what I have sacrificed for you," said Ravenswood, still addressing Lucy, "ere you sanction
what has been done in your name. The honour of an ancient family, the urgent advice of my best
friends, have been in vain used to sway my resolution; neither the arguments of reason nor
the portents of superstition have shaken my fidelity. The very dead have arisen to warn me,
and their warning has been despised. Are you prepared to pierce my heart for its fidelity with
the very weapon which my rash confidence entrusted to your grasp?"

"Master of Ravenswood," said Lady Ashton, "you have asked what questions you thought fit. You
see the total incapacity of my daughter to answer you. But I will reply for her, and in a manner
which you cannot dispute. You desire to know whether Lucy Ashton, of her own free will, desires
to annual the engagement into which she has been trepanned. You have her letter under her own
hand, demanding the surrender of it; and, in yet more full evidence of her purpose, here is
the contract which she has this morning subscribed, in presence of this reverence gentleman,
with Mr. Hayston of Bucklaw."

Ravenswood gazed upon the deed as if petrified. "And it was without fraud or compulsion," said
he, looking towards the clergyman, "that Miss Ashton subscribed this parchment?"

"I couch it upon my sacred character."

"This is indeed, madam, an undeniable piece of evidence," said Ravenswood, sternly; "and it
will be equally unnecessary and dishonourable to waste another word in useless remonstrance
or reproach. There, madam," he said, laying down before Lucy the signed paper and the broken
piece of gold--"there are the evidences of your first engagement; may you be more faithful
to that which you have just formed. I will trouble you to return the corresponding tokens of
my ill-placed confidence; I ought rather to say, of my egregious folly."

Lucy returned the scornful glance of her lover with a gaze from which perception seemed to
have been banished; yet she seemed partly to have understood his meaning, for she raised her
hands as if to undo a blue ribbon which she wore around her neck. She was unable to accomplish
her purpose, but Lady Ashton cut the ribbon asunder, and detached the broken piece of gold,
which Miss Ashton had till then worn concealed in her bosom; the written counterpart of the
lovers' engagement she for some time had had in her own possession. With a haughty courtesy,
she delivered both to Ravenswood, who was much softened when he took the piece of gold.

"And she could wear it thus," he said, speaking to himself--"could wear it in her very bosom--could
wear it next to her heart--even when---- But complain avails not," he said, dashing from his
eye the tear which had gathered in it, and resuming the stern composure of his manner. He strode
to the chimney, and threw into the fire the paper and piece of gold, stamping upon the coals
with the heel of his boot, as if to ensure their destruction. "I will be no longer," he then
said, "an intruder here. Your evil wishes, and your worse offices, Lady Ashton, I will only
return by hoping these will be your last machinations against your daughter's honour and happiness.
And to you, madam," he said, addressing Lucy, "I have nothing farther to say, except to pray
to God that you may not become a world's wonder for this act of wilful and deliberate perjury."
Having uttered these words, he turned on his heel and left the apartment.

Sir William Ashton, by entreaty and authority, had detained his son and Bucklaw in a distant
part of the castle, in order to prevent their again meeting with Ravenswood; but as the Master
descended the great staircase, Lockhard delivered him a billet, signed "Sholto Douglas Ashton,"
requesting to know where the Master of Ravenswood would be heard of four or five days from
hence, as the writer had business of weight to settle with him, so soon as an important family
event had taken place.

"Tell Colonel Ashton," said Ravenswood, composedly, "I shall be found at Wolf's Crag when his
leisure serves him."

As he descended the outward stair which led from the terrace, he was a second time interrupted
by Craigengelt, who, on the part of his principal, the Laird of Bucklaw, expressed a hope that
Ravenswood would not leave Scotland within ten days at least, as he had both former and recent
civilities for which to express his gratitude.

"Tell your master," said Ravenswood, fiercely, "to choose his own time. He will find me at
Wolf's Crag, if his purpose is not forestalled."

"MY master!" replied Craigengelt, encouraged by seeing Colonel Ashton and Bucklaw at the bottom
of the terrace. "Give me leave to say I know of no such person upon earth, nor will I permit
such language to be used to me!"

"Seek your master, then, in hell!" exclaimed Ravenswood, giving way to the passion he had hitherto
restrained, and throwing Craigengelt from him with such violence that he rolled down the steps
and lay senseless at the foot of them. "I am a fool," he instantly added, "to vent my passion
upon a caitiff so worthless."

He then mounted his horse, which at his arrival he had secured to a balustrade in front of
the castle, rode very slowly past Bucklaw and Colonel Ashton, raising his hat as he passed
each, and looking in their faces steadily while he offered this mute salutation, which was
returned by both with the same stern gravity. Ravenswood walked on with equal deliberation
until he reached the head of the avenue, as if to show that he rather courted than avoided
interruption. When he had passed the upper gate, he turned his horse, and looked at the castle
with a fixed eye; then set spurs to his good steed, and departed with the speed of a demon
dismissed by the exorcist.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

     Who comes from the bridal chamber?
     It is Azrael, the angel of death.

     Thalaba.

AFTER the dreadful scene that had taken place at the castle, Lucy was transported to her own
chamber, where she remained for some time in a state of absolute stupor. Yet afterwards, in
the course of the ensuing day, she seemed to have recovered, not merely her spirits and resolution,
but a sort of flighty levity, that was foreign to her character and situation, and which was
at times chequered by fits of deep silence and melancholy and of capricious pettishness. Lady
Ashton became much alarmed and consulted the family physicians. But as her pulse indicated
no change, they could only say that the disease was on the spirits, and recommended gentle
exercise and amusement. Miss Ashton never alluded to what had passed in the state-room. It
seemed doubtful even if she was conscious of it, for she was often observed to raise her hands
to her neck, as if in search of the ribbon that had been taken from it, and mutter, in surprise
and discontent, when she could not find it, "It was the link that bound me to life."

Notwithstanding all these remarkable symptoms, Lady Ashton was too deeply pledged to delay
her daughter's marriage even in her present state of health. It cost her much trouble to keep
up the fair side of appearances towards Bucklaw. She was well aware, that if he once saw any
reluctance on her daughter's part, he would break off the treaty, to her great personal shame
and dishonour. She therefore resolved that, if Lucy continued passive, the marriage should
take place upon the day that had been previously fixed, trusting that a change of place, of
situation, and of character would operate a more speedy and effectual cure upon the unsettled
spirits of her daughter than could be attained by the slow measures which the medical men recommended.
Sir William Ashton's views of family aggrandisement, and his desire to strengthen himself against
the measures of the Marquis of A----, readily induced him to acquiesce in what he could not
have perhaps resisted if willing to do so. As for the young men, Bucklaw and Colonel Ashton,
they protested that, after what had happened, it would be most dishonourable to postpone for
a single hour the time appointed for the marriage, as it would be generally ascribed to their
being intimidated by the intrusive visit and threats of Ravenswood.

Bucklaw would indeed have been incapable of such precipitation, had he been aware of the state
of Miss Ashton's health, or rather of her mind. But custom, upon these occasions, permitted
only brief and sparing intercourse between the bridegroom and the betrothed; a circumstance
so well improved by Lady Ashton, that Bucklaw neither saw nor suspected the real state of the
health and feelings of his unhappy bride.

On the eve of the bridal day, Lucy appeared to have one of her fits of levity, and surveyed
with a degree of girlish interest the various preparations of dress, etc., etc., which the
different members of the family had prepared for the occasion.

The morning dawned bright and cheerily. The bridal guests assembled in gallant troops from
distant quarters. Not only the relations of Sir William Ashton, and the still more dignified
connexions of his lady, together with the numerous kinsmen and allies of the bridegroom, were
present upon this joyful ceremony, gallantly mounted, arrayed, and caparisoned, but almost
every Presbyterian family of distinction within fifty miles made a point of attendance upon
an occasion which was considered as giving a sort of triumph over the Marquis of A----, in
the person of his kinsman. Splendid refreshments awaited the guests on their arrival, and after
these were finished, the cray was "To horse." The bride was led forth betwixt her brother Henry
and her mother. Her gaiety of the preceding day had given rise [place] to a deep shade of melancholy,
which, however, did not misbecome an occasion so momentous. There was a light in her eyes and
a colour in her cheek which had not been kindled for many a day, and which, joined to her great
beauty, and the splendour of her dress, occasioned her entrance to be greeted with an universal
murmur of applause, in which even the ladies could not refrain from joining. While the cavalcade
were getting to horse, Sir William Ashton, a man of peace and of form, censured his son Henry
for having begirt himself with a military sword of preposterous length, belonging to his brother,
Colonel Ashton.

"If you must have a weapon," he said, "upon such a peaceful occasion, why did you not use the
short poniard sent from Edinburgh on purpose?"

The boy vindicated himself by saying it was lost.

"You put it out of the way yourself, I suppose," said his father, "out of ambition to wear
that preposterous thing, which might have served Sir William Wallace. But never mind, get to
horse now, and take care of your sister."

The boy did so, and was placed in the centre of the gallant train. At the time, he was too
full of his own appearance, his sword, his laced cloak, his feathered hat, and his managed
horse, to pay much regard to anything else; but he afterwards remembered to the hour of his
death, that when the hand of his sister, by which she supported hersel on the pillion behind
him, touched his own, it felt as wet and cold as sepulchral marble.

Glancing wide over hill and dale, the fair bridal procession at last reached the parish church,
which they nearly filled; for, besides domestics, above a hundred gentlemen and ladies were
present upon the occasion. The marriage ceremony was performed according to the rites of the
Presbyterian persuasion, to which Bucklaw of late had judged it proper to conform.

On the outside of the church, a liberal dole was distributed to the poor of the neighbouring
parishes, under the direction of Johnie Mortheuch [Mortsheugh], who had lately been promoted
from his desolate quarters at the Hermitage to fill the more eligible situation of sexton at
the parish church of Ravenswood. Dame Gourlay, with two of her contemporaries, the same who
assisted at Alice's late-wake, seated apart upon a flat monument, or "through-stane," sate
enviously comparing the shares which had been allotted to them in dividing the dole.

"Johnie Mortheuch," said Annie Winnie, "might hae minded auld lang syne, and thought of his
auld kimmers, for as braw as he is with his new black coat. I hae gotten but five herring instead
o' sax, and this disna look like a gude saxpennys, and I dare say this bit morsel o' beef is
an unce lighter than ony that's been dealt round; and it's a bit o' the tenony hough, mair
by token that yours, Maggie, is out o' the back-sey."

"Mine, quo' she!" mumbled the paralytic hag--"mine is half banes, I trow. If grit folk gie
poor bodies ony thing for coming to their weddings and burials, it suld be something that wad
do them gude, I think."

"Their gifts," said Ailsie Gourlay, "are dealt for nae love of us, nor out of respect for whether
we feed or starve. They wad gie us whinstanes for loaves, if it would serve their ain vanity,
and yet they expect us to be as gratefu', as they ca' it, as if they served us for true love
and liking."

"And that's truly said," answered her companion.

"But, Aislie Gourlay, ye're the auldest o' us three--did ye ever see a mair grand bridal?"

"I winna say that I have," answered the hag; "but I think soon to see as braw a burial."

"And that wad please me as weel," said Annie Winnie; "for there's as large a dole, and folk
are no obliged to girn and laugh, and mak murgeons, and wish joy to these hellicat quality,
that lord it ower us like brute beasts. I like to pack the dead-dole in my lap and rin ower
my auld rhyme--

     My loaf in my lap, my penny in my purse,
     Thou art ne'er the better, and
     I'm ne'er the worse."

"That's right, Annie," said the paralytic woman; "God send us a green Yule and a fat kirkyard!"

"But I wad like to ken, Luckie Gourlay, for ye're the auldest and wisest amang us, whilk o'
these revellers' turn it will be to be streikit first?"

"D'ye see yon dandilly maiden," said Dame Gourlay, "a' glistenin' wi' gowd and jewels, that
they are lifting up on the white horse behind that hare-brained callant in scarlet, wi' the
lang sword at his side?"

"But that's the bride!" said her companion, her cold heart touched with some sort of compassion--"that's
the very bride hersell! Eh, whow! sae young, sae braw, and sae bonny--and is her time sae short?"

"I tell ye," said the sibyl, "her winding sheet is up as high as her throat already, believe
it wha list. Her sand has but few grains to rin out; and nae wonder--they've been weel shaken.
The leaves are withering fast on the trees, but she'll never see the Martinmas wind gar them
dance in swirls like the fairy rings." "Ye waited on her for a quarter," said the paralytic
woman, "and got twa red pieces, or I am far beguiled?"

"Ay, ay," answered Ailsie, with a bitter grin; "and Sir William Ashton promised me a bonny
red gown to the boot o' that--a stake, and a chain, and a tar-barrel, lass! what think ye o'
that for a propine?--for being up early and doun late for fourscore nights and mair wi' his
dwining daughter. But he may keep it for his ain leddy, cummers."

"I hae heard a sough," said Annie Winnie, "as if Leddy Ashton was nae canny body."

"D'ye see her yonder," said Dame Gourlay, "as she prances on her grey gelding out at the kirkyard?
There's mair o' utter deevilry in that woman, as brave and fair-fashioned as she rides yonder,
than in a' the Scotch withces that ever flew by moonlight ower North Berwick Law."

"What's that ye say about witches, ye damned hags?" said Johnie Mortheuch [Mortsheugh]; "are
ye casting yer cantrips in the very kirkyard, to mischieve the bride and bridegroom? Get awa'
hame, for if I tak my souple t'ye, I'll gar ye find the road faster than ye wad like."

"Hegh, sirs!" answered Ailsie Gourlay; "how bra' are we wi' our new black coat and our weel-pouthered
head, as if we had never kenn'd hunger nor thirst oursells! and we'll be screwing up our bit
fiddle, doubtless, in the ha' the night, amang a' the other elbo'-jiggers for miles round.
Let's see if the pins haud, Johnie--that's a', lad."

"I take ye a' to witness, gude people," said Morheuch, "that she threatens me wi' mischief,
and forespeaks me. If ony thing but gude happens to me or my fiddle this night, I'll make it
the blackest night's job she ever stirred in. I'll hae her before presbytery and synod: I'm
half a minister mysell, now that I'm a bedral in an inhabited parish."

Although the mutual hatred betwixt these hags and the rest of mankind had steeled their hearts
against all impressions of festivity, this was by no means the case with the multitude at large.
The splendour of the bridal retinue, the gay dresses, the spirited horses, the blythesome appearance
of the handsome women and gallant gentlemen assembled upon the occasion, had the usual effect
upon the minds of the populace. The repeated shouts of "Ashton and Bucklaw for ever!" the discharge
of pistols, guns, and musketoons, to give what was called the bridal shot, evinced the interest
the people took in the occasion of the cavalcade, as they accompanied it upon their return
to the castle. If there was here and there an elder peasant or his wife who sneered at the
pomp of the upstart family, and remembered the days of the long-descended Ravenswoods, even
they, attracted by the plentiful cheer which the castle that day afforded to rich and poor,
held their way thither, and acknowledged, notwithstanding their prejudices, the influence of
l'Amphitrion ou l'on dine.

Thus accompanied with the attendance both of rich and poor, Lucy returned to her father's house.
Bucklaw used his privilege of riding next to the bride, but, new to such a situation, rather
endeavoured to attract attention by the display of his person and horsemanship, than by any
attempt to address her in private. They reached the castle in safety, amid a thousand joyous
acclamations.

It is well known that the weddings of ancient days were celebrated with a festive publicity
rejected by the delicacy of modern times. The marriage guests, on the present occasion, were
regaled with a banquet of unbounded profusion, the relics of which, after the domestics had
feasted in their turn, were distributed among the shouting crowd, with as many barrels of ale
as made the hilarity without correspond to that within the castle. The gentlemen, according
to the fashion of the times, indulged, for the most part, in deep draughts of the richest wines,
while the ladies, prepared for the ball which always closed a bridal entertainment, impatiently
expected their arrival in the state gallery. At length the social party broke up at a late
hour, and the gentlemen crowded into the saloon, where, enlivened by wine and the joyful occasion,
they laid aside their swords and handed their impatient partners to the floor. The music already
rung from the gallery, along the fretted roof of the ancient state apartment. According to
strict etiquette, the bride ought to have opened the ball; but Lady Ashton, making an apology
on account of her daughter's health, offered her own hand to Bucklaw as substitute for her
daughter's. But as Lady Ashton raised her head gracefully, expecting the strain at which she
was to begin the dance, she was so much struck by an unexpected alteration in the ornaments
of the apartment that she was surprised into an exclamation, "Who has dared to change the pictures?"

All looked up, and those who knew the usual state of the apartment observed, with surprise,
that the picture of Sir William Ashton's father was removed from its place, and in its stead
that of old Sir Malise Ravenswood seemed to frown wrath and vengeance upon the party assembled
below. The exchange must have been made while the apartments were empty, but had not been observed
until the torches and lights in the sconces were kindled for the ball. The haughty and heated
spirits of the gentlemen led them to demand an immediate inquiry into the cause of what they
deemed an affront to their host and to themselves; but Lady Ashton, recovering herself, passed
it over as the freak of a crazy wench who was maintained about the castle, and whose susceptible
imagination had been observed to be much affected by the stories which Dame Gourlay delighted
to tell concerning "the former family," so Lady Ashton named the Ravenswoods. The obnoxious
picture was immediately removed, and the ball was opened by Lady Ashton, with a grace and dignity
which supplied the charms of youth, and almost verified the extravagant encomiums of the elder
part of the company, who extolled her performance as far exceeding the dancing of the rising
generation.

When Lady Ashton sat down, she was not surprised to find that her daughter had left the apartment,
and she herself followed, eager to obviate any impression which might have been made upon her
nerves by an incident so likely to affect them as the mysterious transposition of the portraits.
Apparently she found her apprehensions groundless, for she returned in about an hour, and whispered
the bridegroom, who extricated himself from the dancers, and vanished from the apartment. The
instruments now played their loudest strains; the dancers pursued their exercise with all the
enthusiasm inspired by youth, mirth, and high spirits, when a cry was heard so shrill and piercing
as at once to arrest the dance and the music. All stood motionless; but when the yell was again
repeated, Colonel Ashton snatched a torch from the sconce, and demanding the key of the bridal-chamber
from Henry, to whom, as bride's-man, it had been entrusted, rushed thither, followed by Sir
William Ashton and Lady Ashton, and one or two others, near relations of the family. The bridal
guests waited their return in stupified amazement.

Arrived at the door of the apartment, Colonel Ashton knocked and called, but received no answer
except stifled groans. He hesitated no longer to open the door of the apartment, in which he
found opposition from something which lay against it. When he had succeeded in opening it,
the body of the bridegroom was found lying on the threshold of the bridal chamber, and all
around was flooded with blood. A cry of surprise and horror was raised by all present; and
the company, excited by this new alarm, began to rush tumultuously towards the sleeping apartment.
Colonel Ashton, first whispering to his mother, "Search for her; she has murdered him!" drew
his sword, planted himself in the passage, and declared he would suffer no man to pass excepting
the clergyman and a medical person present. By their assistance, Bucklaw, who still breathed,
was raised from the ground, and transported to another apartment, where his friends, full of
suspicion and murmuring, assembled round him to learn the opinion of the surgeon.

In the mean while, Lady Ashton, her husband, and their assistants in vain sought Lucy in the
bridal bed and in the chamber. There was no private passage from the room, and they began to
think that she must have thrown herself from the window, when one of the company, holding his
torch lower than the rest, discovered something white in the corner of the great old-fashioned
chimney of the apartment. Here they found the unfortunate girl seated, or rather couched like
a hare upon its form--her head-gear dishevelled, her night-clothes torn and dabbled with blood,
her eyes glazed, and her features convulsed into a wild paroxysm of insanity. When she saw
herself discovered, she gibbered, made mouths, and pointed at them with her bloody fingers,
with the frantic gestures of an exulting demoniac.

Female assistance was now hastily summoned; the unhappy bride was overpowered, not without
the use of some force. As they carried her over the threshold, she looked down, and uttered
the only articulate words that she had yet spoken, saying, with a sort of grinning exultation,
"So, you have ta'en up your bonny bridegroom?" She was, by the shuddering assistants, conveyed
to another and more retired apartment, where she was secured as her situation required, and
closely watched. The unutterable agony of the parents, the horror and confusion of all who
were in the castle, the fury of contending passions between the friends of the different parties--passions
augmented by previous intemperance--surpass description.

The surgeon was the first who obtained something like a patient hearing; he pronounced that
the wound of Bucklaw, though severe and dangerous, was by no means fatal, but might readily
be rendered so by disturbance and hasty removal. This silenced the numerous party of Bucklaw's
friends, who had previously insisted that he should, at all rates, be transported from the
castle to the nearest of their houses. They still demanded, however, that, in consideration
of what had happened, four of their number should remain to watch over the sick-bed of their
friend, and that a suitable number of their domestics, well armed, should also remain in the
castle. This condition being acceded to on the part of Colonel Ashton and his father, the rest
of the bridegroom's friends left the castle, notwithstanding the hour and the darkness of the
night. 

In these reflections I wanted to go after the Sommerhaeuslein, but saw my gracious Mr. Ritter and even
profound, with folded hands under a tree sitting in the sunshine, and could not, vorueberzugehen
him so I did not bother him. I asked myself a question In his modestly close to the canopy,
and my beret was in the hands, waiting for whether he should turn his eyes perhaps for me.

The sight of my Lord awoke a great reverence in me. I had him yesterday not rather seen as it
was getting dark, he took me along the way to be merciful. He had a snow-white hair on the head
and beard, and well-liked much about him flew be. I remembered that he had never seen such a
pious old knight, with his serious and mild countenance such confidence in my heart sank. God
grant that I So in honor may be gray! I thought to myself, and was drawn to the heart and
soul dear lord drawn. But he seemed very sad, sighed often and deeply, and the little birds
that sang about him in the tree so funny, could not console him.

Since I was so taken a while to see him, he turned his eyes to the place by chance, where I
stood, and spoke to me kindly, saying: "How you is John, that you stand there so still, "To
which I replied:" I did not want to disturb your peace, Lord,? It seems to me in serious thought.
"

The knight said then: "John, how you like your new home, are you satisfied
with me?

"

As I said, "Lord, I should be glad I do not sleep now know where and where bread? find and who
serve the Lord's sake, because I know now, who love who would like to thank except God, and
who pray except for me. Sir, I like my new home well, and God admit that I probably also liked
it, and am worthy of her. "smiled the Knights and said: "John, if you are serious about your
words, so we will be good companions because I like your speech well.

But what do you want, probably fallen to me, what do you want me Card, because you have nothing?
"

To which I replied: "Sir, I remain your debtor to the world, for you I can not Doublet give
for the doublet, which I carry through your grace, but before God
I'll give you a good numbers man, because to him, I give you my heart.

"

Since the Knight replied jokingly: "If I wanted to give my heart for the yours, I still retained
the benefits vest, or how then, John "

To which I replied: "Sir, you computes so exigent as you wanted me to try to counter-statement,
and so I should be at least say that my heart has certainly not value against yours, which
gepruefet is due to long years since the mine is poor and without merit, that was when it all Good,
what it has willed not benefit comes, as it has no value it with you to may be because of the belief
in the mercy of the Saviour is not given with the heart can be and this belief alone but a
heart to bless and to save can. Take it out because, as it is, and Puget added, which can not
give to you.

But I I have a gift, that I will enjoy you can, and that you seek me not so easy sollet, for
it is quickly and flee from it, even You're going with all seriousness,
not easy suppress what may, for it is sweet and funny to watch, and
I could tell you really give our own, you would not make them happy
again, so a good companion is it.

"

My Lord, who had become very serious, said then, looking down sadly
to himself: "And what is in front of a jewel, John, with the boast
on you?

"

As I said, "Lord, it is my youth, which I will let you enjoy, as I can. You forget your age
so for me, I want to please you with many merry Speeches and thoughts.

"

But what I had spoken last was probably foolish and a bad beginning of my promised pleasing speeches,
for my Lord was now very quiet and dark. Because I had reminded him of his age, I believed.
I talked to him Shy: "Lord, I've angered you with foolish words."

He said: "You've not done, John, have you spoken the truth, but I like my heart is heavy, which
suits me a long time already to my unworthiness. But now consider I know if my spirit is inside
an amusing take most of the burden of the breast, but that may well not be, thou hast not
found here in the green, in a funny garden, from the love sun shone,
and in the solutions of the innocent little birds, pensive and sad?

Will you can, what can not the spring? But thou hast learned arts, which I not possess, you shall
not stay my debtor, I wish God's own eternal Debtor. Set up to me and tell me faithfully as you
have come to poverty in good, and how it go with thee, until I found you yesterday at the Oak Blobsheimer
the forest, and then you shall also hear from me why I'm sad. "

Since I have the great kindness of my Lord had heard of this speech, I made a good courage, sat
down beside him under the tree, and spoke thus: "My lord and knight, there is no honest way in life
than the birth, as our Saviour it is also changed, and so there is no honest way to poverty, to
be born in it, because our Savior was born in it, so I came to poverty, when I was born. But
I 'm not stayed long arm, for I found an unspeakably dear mother, and the left I sleep on her
heart, and looked down at me with caring loving eyes, and woke they do not with their Traenlein
that fell on me, she woke me with kisses, and her own life made me drink from your breasts, O
Lord, I was not rich, who is richer than a new-born child - Yes, I was so rich that I love my mother
Joy and sorrow could double what you will probably hear a song that
my Mother often sang when they sleep for me in early youth, and I
have it on their Death in their Gebetbuechlein found lying, but it
is found as soon talking to a child the mother, now the mother to
him, now hear:

O Mother, keep your child warm, the world is cold
and bright, And carry it in your pious Arm to your heart's threshold.

Leg still there, where your bosom heaves, And, softly down gebuecket, hair lovingly, until the bright
eyes lifts to the sky And I wake saved blicket.-up with tears, So I wake up with kisses; For your
eyes my day starts, Sundays, you have to lunar soft

O unschuldger heaven you!

You're laughing eyes of children, O angel vision, o blessed rest in Thee to delight me!

I look to you so day than night, must ever look to you, And if my sky dreaming laughs, is growing
hope and confidence.

Come here, come here, drink my breast, and living out my life, Oh,
I could feel like all pious From my chest give you!

Only desire only pleasure, and it was no good, Oh, you drink the pain,
the stronger God Himmelshoeh you heart out of my heart!

Our Father which art in heaven, Our daily bread give us today, faithful God, Lord Jesus Christ,
impregnating us from your bright eyes-You page. heaven you, you Taust
from mother's eyes, Ah, heart pounding, oh joy, oh peace, suck on
your breasts!

I look to you so day than night, must look to you for ever, you need me, me to the world placed
to build now also the cradle.

To let my cradle silk do not let your arm, coil themselves, and only
your gentle eyes Let light pass down to me.

And in thy chaste womb hat swing you should love your child, that your children, so sweet, so
good, how dreams beguile me.

Since I dreaming, as I lived all alone you under her heart, there were the delights I enjoy
your suffering and pain also.

And to you your heart was so big too, and had not know who complain, and wept quiet you in
your lap, Half I wear your heart you.

As I said, 'Come, dear mother, come!

Kuehl up in waves of love! Since you have felt so still, so pious dragged down into you.

Namely mother saved all alone in your lust intoxicated, "Did I clear your mind pure, you Belauschet
heart.

What is holy in you to all hours, that I was all, Now kiss me, sweet mouth, healthy, Because
you heal me.

O blessed, blessed without guilt, how could I pray with you, O wonderful impatience, Ans sharp
Light connect!

Put it in linen, with which you weave, For flowers you gepfluecket, Die, that if the little
eyes out, the sky Beholding it up.

Sun babbles to you a pious heart, and never learns to speak, looks eternally to you, look himmelwaerts
And I will break with joy.

Freud does not break in, but it breaks in pain, it breaks all of us both. Oh, bye goes far and
wide, and is near the vagina!

When I recited the song completely, I and my knights were a bit quiet. Then raised it and said,
"You're right, dear John, you were quite rich, a love so Mother to find on Earth, which is a
nice song, but it is also much sadness in it; who has for so gesetzet that at the end so painfully,
from the vagina talk? "

As I said, "My father has put it, when I was not born, he from my
Mother had divorced, and she has never wiedergesehn him, and I know
him not.

"Since broke off my tears, but my Lord took me kindly by the hand over his head and said: "Be
cheerful I want to be your father, that's enough out of the earth, God ! Gebs "I kissed his hand
and continued:" Ah, sir, such a wealth of very dear mother was still not enough, because good
people took me in her arms and carried me to the church, I was received
by the holy baptism among the children of God and was purified from
all sin, and became partakers of the atonement of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Since I was only rich beyond all measure, because I had eternal life and the key of heaven bestowed.
But then neither was given to me many earthly glory, and what necessary for life and is funny,
because I was taught that the Power of all my Gold is, the level of the rivers all my silver,
the green meadows with many flowers my carpets and Tapezereien, the sky with its blue and starry
vault of green high forest all my buildings and warehouses, at last I have become so rich that
my whole world was open, and was all good men, my servant, to whom I speak was allowed to:
Give me this, give me that, and I had no master, as Lord of lords, the dear God who gave me
life to live, and in whose hands I do so The Holy Spirit gives His grace, and my Lord Jesus
has mercy on me, without much Flaw return hope and I have chosen
as saying on my plate - because I 'm a knight's son -:

The sky is
my hat, The earth is my shoe, the holy cross is my sword, Who me provides
me dear and precious.

"

Smiled Mr. Valtellina and said, "Your hat is better than your shoe that you will you soon expire,
but your sword is the most powerful on earth and has a good gunsmith had, you're a good knight,
and your trip may leave peacefully, because you see have you truly value. But tell me now your
custom! "

As I pulled a book from my book bag and said, "I will read you, for I have started, I write down
in a way fairly thoroughly, as it occurred to me with all kinds of talk and consideration, as
I was aware of was that it was and his . May "Then said Mr. Valtellina:" You can write? John,
I can not, and am I am eager to hear if you all so well written that I may well enjoy it; for as
the Scripture as something artificial and man more remarkable given than general speech, the
flies quickly here, they should also be preserved to the dignified be presented to the people,
and thus probably be set and clearly. Read now lifted!

"Since I: Chronicles of the traveling student's Lauren John Burger, of Polsnich Lahn

This book is valuable and dear to me, Whoever steals it to me, is a thief.

I was born on 20 May 1318 to Polsnich Lahn, which is a farm that belongs to the monastery Arnstein,
here I was christened John. My mother lived blissfully in a small little house before the court, and
they were called the beautiful Lauren Burger Els, and my father but
I never seen was the Knight of the Lauren Castle, the monastery Arnstein
opposite an der Lahn content.

But what it did for a personality with him, I will write here, so I learn a lot when I get the
time in my life because it was myself known.

The first thing I remember from early youth my mother very much, is that they taught me to call
me with the sign of the cross and the hands to fold and pray the Lord's Prayer and the English
greeting. She told me before the prayers, I looked at her lips and said to her, and I remember
quite clearly my great joy, as I knelt beside her for the first time
in the evening at her prie-dieu, and this holy prayers with her language
skills and without blemish. Now even when I pray, is it me often when
I looked to her lips and spoke to her.

She was poor, pious and industrious,
and when I later saw the same in many business, floats me her picture
but most of praying, singing or spinning before his eyes. If they
tell me sometimes in the evening felt asleep in bed, I was still awake,
listening to the purr its spindle and its touching song, for she sat
late on to earn their bread in honor.

The sight of my gracious mother,
if she so with lamplight singing half aloud to himself, spinning,
moved me to tears too often, why, that the good Lord knows certainly,
to which I probably listening I prayed for them with childish heart.

Once
I know that I even had to cry much, as I do at night, so with her
skirt before sing himself heard, as a nightingale began to sing in
front of our window also, it was very late, and the full moon shone
clear and bright But my mother did not hear to sing, and sang the
little bird and at the same time. Since I have sadness for the first
felt and had a childish worries about the seriousness of life that
I feel well yet, but can not pronounce, I've also quietly up in bed
and my mother zugehoert. The faithful domestic followed; and from the dishevelled appearance of his
master's dress, and his ghastly looks, was confirmed in his conjecture that he had passed the
night without sleep or repose. He found him busily engaged in saddling his horse, a service
from which Caleb, though with faltering voice and trembling hands, offered to relieve him.
Ravenswood rejected his assistance by a mute sign, and having led the animal into the court,
was just about to mount him, when the old domestic's fear giving way to the strong attachment
which was the principal passion of his mind, he flung himself suddenly at Ravenswood's feet,
and clasped his knees, while he exclaimed: "Oh, sir! oh, master! kill me if you will, but do
not go out on this dreadful errand! Oh! my dear master, wait but this day; the Marquis of A----
comes to-morrow, and a' will be remedied."

"You have no longer a master, Caleb," said Ravenswood, endeavouring to extricate himself; "why,
old man, would you cling to a falling tower?"

"But I HAVE a master," cried Caleb, still holding him fast, "while the heir of Ravenswood breathes.
I am but a servant; but I was born your father's--your grandfather's servant. I was born for
the family--I have lived for them--I would die for them! Stay but at home, and all will be well!"

"Well, fool! well!" said Ravenswood. "Vain old man, nothing hereafter in life will be well
with me, and happiest is the hour that shall soonest close it!"

So saying, he extricated himself from the old man's hold, threw himself on his horse, and rode
out the gate; but instantly turning back, he threw towards Caleb, who hastened to meet him,
a heavy purse of gold.

"Caleb!" he said, with a ghastly smile, "I make you my executor"; and again turning his bridle,
he resumed his course down the hill.

The gold fell unheeded on the pavement, for the old man ran to observe the course which was
taken by his master, who turned to the left down a small and broken path, which gained the
sea-shore through a cleft in the rock, and led to a sort of cove where, in former times, the
boats of the castle were wont to be moored. Observing him take this course, Caleb hastened
to the eastern battlement, which commanded the prospect of the whole sands, very near as far
as the village of Wolf's Hope. He could easily see his master riding in that direction, as
fast as the horse could carry him. The prophecy at once rushed on Balderstone's mind, that
the Lord of Ravenswood should perish on the Kelpie's flow, which lay half-way betwixt the Tower
and the links, or sand knolls, to the northward of Wolf's Hope. He saw him according reach
the fatal spot; but he never saw him pass further.

Colonel Ashton, frantic for revenge, was already in the field, pacing the turf with eagerness,
and looking with impatience towards the Tower for the arrival of his antagonist. The sun had
now risen, and showed its broad disk above the eastern sea, so that he could easily discern
the horseman who rode towards him with speed which argued impatience equal to his own. At once
the figure became invisible, as if it had melted into the air. He rubbed his eyes, as if he
had witnessed an apparition, and then hastened to the spot, near which he was met by Balderstone,
who came from the opposite direction. No trace whatever o horse or rider could be discerned;
it only appeared that the late winds and high tides had greatly extended the usual bounds of
the quicksand, and that the unfortunate horseman, as appeared from the hoof-tracks, in his
precipitate haste, had not attended to keep on the firm sands on the foot of the rock, but
had taken the shortest and most dangerous course. One only vestige of his fate appeared. A
large sable feather had been detached from his hat, and the rippling waves of the rising tide
wafted it to Caleb's feet. The old man took it up, dried it, and placed it in his bosom.

The inhabitants of Wolf's Hope were now alarmed, and crowded to the place, some on shore, and
some in boats, but their search availed nothing. The tenacious depths of the quicksand, as
is usual in such cases, retained its prey.

Our tale draws to a conclusion. The Marquis of A----, alarmed at the frightful reports that
were current, and anxious for his kinsman's safety, arrived on the subsequent day to mourn
his loss; and, after renewing in vain a search for the body, returned, to forget what had happened
amid the bustle of politics and state affairs.

Not so Caleb Balderstone. If wordly profit could have consoled the old man, his age was better
provided for than his earlier years had ever been; but life had lost to him its salt and its
savour. His whole course of ideas, his feelings, whether of pride or of apprehension, of pleasure
or of pain, had all arisen from its close connexion with the family which was now extinguished. Your Jesus from the height: "Come, my dove, come to me!" I can
understand the call.

If I am to be your dove, you have to give me wings, the washing is
in your blood I clean, And will float in faith.

You cry out to me! He ate without refreshment, and slumbered without repose; and, with a fidelity
sometimes displayed by the canine race, but seldom by human beings, he pined and died within
a year after the catastrophe which we have narrated.

The family of Ashton did not long survive that of Ravenswood. 

Since you drove by me, always sings the nightingale, I think in their sound, as we together were.

God
wants to unite us, Here I spin so alone, The moon shines clear and
pure, I sing and would like to cry!

Very sad but it seemed to me that the birds and my mother also sang and not quite together,
and I would have known then probably like, if the bird in my mother thought of his song, and
whether he would have rather been crying as singing. In all external appearance she bore the same bold, haughty,
unbending character which she had displayed before these unhappy events. A splendid marble
monument records her name, titles, and virtues, while her victims remain undistinguished by
tomb or epitath.