But before the close of the session another matter had come up which cooled still more the
relations between Judge Folger and myself.  For many sessions, year after year, there had been
before the legislature a bill for establishing a canal connecting the interior lake system
of the State with Lake Ontario.  This was known as the Sodus Canal Bill, and its main champion
was a public-spirited man from Judge Folger's own district.  In favor of the canal various
arguments were urged, one of them being that it would enable the United States, while keeping
within its treaty obligations with Great Britain, to build ships on these smaller lakes, which,
in case of need, could be passed through the canal into the great chain of lakes extending
from Lake Ontario to Lake Superior.  To this it was replied that such an evasion of the treaty
was not especially creditable to those suggesting it, and that the main purpose of the bill
really was to create a vast water power which should enure to the benefit of sundry gentlemen
in Judge Folger's district.

Up to this time Judge Folger seemed never to care much for the bill, and I had never made any
especial effort against it; but when, just at the close of the session, certain constituents
of mine upon the Oswego River had shown me that there was great danger in the proposed canal
to the water supply through the counties of Onondaga and Oswego, I opposed the measure.  Thereupon
Judge Folger became more and more earnest in its favor, and it soon became evident that all
his power would be used to pass it during the few remaining days of the session.  By his influence
it was pushed rapidly through all its earlier stages, and at last came up before the Senate.
It seemed sure to pass within ten minutes, when I moved that the whole matter be referred to
the approaching Constitutional Convention, which was to begin its sessions immediately after
the adjournment of the legislature, and Judge Folger having spoken against this motion, I spoke
in its favor and did what I have never done before in my life and probably shall never do again--spoke
against time.  There was no ``previous question'' in the Senate, no limitation as to the period
during which a member could discuss any measure, and, as the youngest member in the body, I
was in the full flush of youthful strength.  I therefore announced my intention to present
some three hundred arguments in favor of referring the whole matter to the State Constitutional
Convention, those arguments being based upon the especial fitness of its three hundred members
to decide the question, as shown by the personal character and life history of each and every
one of them.  I then went on with this series of biographies, beginning with that of Judge
Folger himself, and paying him most heartily and cordially every tribute possible, including
some of a humorous nature.  Having given about half an hour to the judge, I then took up sundry
other members and kept on through the entire morning.  I had the floor and no one could dispossess
me.  The lieutenant-governor, in the chair, General Stewart Woodford, was perfectly just and
fair, and although Judge Folger and Mr. Murphy used all their legal acuteness in devising some
means of evading the rules, they were in every case declared by the lieutenant-governor to
be out of order, and the floor was in every case reassigned to me.  Meantime, the whole Senate,
though anxious to adjourn, entered into the spirit of the matter, various members passing me
up biographical notes on the members of the convention, some of them very comical, and presently
the hall was crowded with members of the assembly as well as senators, all cheering me on.
The reason for this was very simple.  There had come to be a general understanding of the case,
namely, that Judge Folger, by virtue of his great power and influence, was trying in the last
hours of the session to force through a bill for the benefit of his district, and that I was
simply doing my best to prevent an injustice.  The result was that I went on hour after hour
with my series of biographies, until at last Judge Folger himself sent me word that if I would
desist and allow the legislature to adjourn he would make no further effort to carry the bill
at that session.  To this I instantly agreed; the bill was dropped for that session and for
all sessions: so far as I can learn it has never reappeared.

Shortly after our final adjournment the Constitutional Convention came together.  It was one
of the best bodies of the kind ever assembled in any State, as a list of its members abundantly
shows.  There was much work for it, and most important of all was the reorganization of the
highest judicial body in the State--the Court of Appeals--which had become hopelessly inadequate.

The two principal members of the convention from the city of New York were Horace Greeley,
editor of the ``Tribune,'' and William M. Evarts, afterward Attorney- General, United States
senator, and Secretary of State of the United States.  Mr. Greeley was at first all-powerful.
As has already been seen, he had been able to prevent Judge Folger taking the presidency of
the convention, and for a few days he had everything his own way.  But he soon proved so erratic
a leader that his influence was completely lost, and after a few sessions there was hardly
any member with less real power to influence the judgments of his colleagues.

This was not for want of real ability in his speeches, for at various times I heard him make,
for and against measures, arguments admirably pungent, forcible, and far-reaching, but there
seemed to be a universal feeling that he was an unsafe guide.

Soon came a feature in his course which made matters worse.  The members of the convention,
many of them, were men in large business and very anxious to have a day or two each week for
their own affairs.  Moreover, during the first weeks of the session, while the main matters
coming before the convention were still in the hands of committees, there was really not enough
business ready for the convention to occupy it through all the days of the week, and consequently
it adopted the plan, for the first weeks at least, of adjourning from Friday night till Tuesday
morning.  This vexed Mr. Greeley sorely.  He insisted that the convention ought to keep at
its business and finish it without any such weekly adjournments, and, as his arguments to this
effect did not prevail in the convention, he began making them through the ``Tribune'' before
the people of the State.  Soon his arguments became acrid, and began undermining the convention
at every point.

As to Mr. Greeley's feeling regarding the weekly adjournment, one curious thing was reported:
There was a member from New York of a literary turn for whom the great editor had done much
in bringing his verses and other productions before the public--a certain Mr. Duganne; but
it happened that, on one of the weekly motions to adjourn, Mr. Duganne had voted in the affirmative,
and, as a result, Mr. Greeley, meeting him just afterward, upbraided him in a manner which
filled the rural bystanders with consternation.  It was well known to those best acquainted
with the editor of the ``Tribune'' that, when excited, he at times indulged in the most ingenious
and picturesque expletives, and some of Mr. Chauncey Depew's best stories of that period pointed
to this fact.  On this occasion Mr. Greeley really outdid himself, and the result was that
the country members, who up to that time had regarded him with awe as the representative of
the highest possible morality in public and private life, were greatly dismayed, and in various
parts of the room they were heard expressing their amazement, and saying to each other in awe-stricken
tones:  ``Why! Greeley swears!''

Ere long Mr. Greeley was taking, almost daily in the ``Tribune,'' steady ground against the
doings of his colleagues.  Lesser newspapers followed with no end of cheap and easy denunciation,
and the result was that the convention became thoroughly, though unjustly, discredited throughout
the State, and indeed throughout the country.  A curious proof of this met me.  Being at Cambridge,
Massachusetts, I passed an evening with Governor Washburn, one of the most thoughtful and valuable
public men of that period.  In the course of our conversation he said:  ``Mr. White, it is
really sad to hear of the doings at your Albany convention.  I can remember your constitutional
convention of 1846, and when I compare this convention with that, it grieves me.''  My answer
was:  ``Governor Washburn, you are utterly mistaken: there has never been a constitutional
convention in the State of New York, not even that you name, which has contained so many men
of the highest ability and character as the one now in session, and none which has really done
better work.  I am not a member of the body and can say this in its behalf.''  At this he expressed
his amazement, and pointed to the ``Tribune'' in confirmation of his own position.  I then
stated the case to him, and, I think, alleviated his distress.

But as the sessions of the convention drew to a close and the value of its work began to be
clearly understood, Greeley's nobler qualities, his real truthfulness and public spirit began
to assert themselves, and more than once he showed practical shrewdness and insight.  Going
into convention one morning, I found the question under discussion to be the election of the
secretary of state, attorney-general, and others of the governor's cabinet, whose appointment
under the older constitutions was wisely left to the governor, but who, for twenty years, had
been elected by the people.  There was a wide-spread feeling that the old system was wiser,
and that the new had by no means justified itself; in fact, that by fastening on the governor
the responsibility for his cabinet, the State is likely to secure better men than when their
choice is left to the hurly-burly of intrigue and prejudice in a nominating convention.

The main argument made by those who opposed such a return to the old, better order of things
was that the people would not like it and would be inclined to vote down the new constitution
on account of it.

In reply to this, Mr. Greeley arose and made a most admirable short speech ending with these
words, given in his rapid falsetto, with a sort of snap that made the whole seem like one word:
``When-the-people-take-up-their- ballots-they-want-to-see-who-is-to-be-governor: that's-all-
they-care-about: they-don't-want-to-read-a-whole-chapter- of-the-Bible-on-their-ballots.''

Unfortunately, the majority dared not risk the popular ratification of the new constitution,
and so this amendment was lost.

No doubt Mr. Greeley was mainly responsible for this condition of things; his impatience with
the convention, as shown by his articles in the ``Tribune,'' had been caught by the people
of the State.

The long discussions were very irksome to him, and one day I mildly expostulated with him on
account of some of his utterances against the much speaking of his colleagues, and said:  ``After
all, Mr. Greeley, is n't it a pretty good thing to have a lot of the best men in the State
come together every twenty years and thoroughly discuss the whole constitution, to see what
improvements can be made; and is not the familiarity with the constitution and interest in
it thus aroused among the people at large worth all the fatigue arising from long speeches?''
``Well, perhaps so,'' he said, but he immediately began to grumble and finally to storm in
a comical way against some of his colleagues who, it must be confessed, were tiresome.  Still
he became interested more and more in the work, and as the new constitution emerged from the
committees and public debates, he evidently saw that it was a great gain to the State, and
now did his best through the ``Tribune'' to undo what he had been doing.  He wrote editorials
praising the work of the convention and urging that it be adopted.  But all in vain: the unfavorable
impression had been too widely and deeply made, and the result was that the new constitution,
when submitted to the people, was ignominiously voted down, and the whole summer's work of
the convention went for nothing.  Later, however, a portion of it was rescued and put into
force through the agency of a ``Constitutional Commission,'' a small body of first-rate men
who sat at Albany, and whose main conclusions were finally adopted in the shape of amendments
to the old constitution.  There was, none the less, a wretched loss to the State.

During the summer of 1867 I was completely immersed in the duties of my new position at Cornell
University; going through various institutions in New England and the Western States to note
the workings of their technical departments; visiting Ithaca to consult with Mr. Cornell and
to look over plans for buildings, and credentials for professorships, or, shut up in my own
study at Syracuse, or in the cabins of Cayuga Lake steamers, drawing up schemes of university
organization, so that my political life soon seemed ages behind me.

While on a visit to Harvard, I was invited by Agassiz to pass a day with him at Nahant in order
to discuss methods and men.  He entered into the matter very earnestly, agreed to give us an
extended course of lectures, which he afterward did, and aided us in many ways.  One remark
of his surprised me.  I had asked him to name men, and he had taken much pains to do so, when
suddenly he turned to me abruptly and said:  ``Who is to be your professor of moral philosophy?
That is by far the most important matter in your whole organization.''  It seemed strange that
one who had been honored by the whole world as probably the foremost man in natural science
then living, and who had been denounced by many exceedingly orthodox people as an enemy of
religion, should take this view of the new faculty, but it showed how deeply and sincerely
religious he was.  I soon reassured him on the point he had raised, and then went on with the
discussion of scientific men, methods, and equipments.

I was also asked by the poet Longfellow to pass a day with him at his beautiful Nahant cottage
in order to discuss certain candidates and methods in literature.  Nothing could be more delightful
than his talk as we sat together on the veranda looking out over the sea, with the gilded dome
of the State House, which he pointed out to me as ``The Hub,'' in the dim distance.  One question
of his amused me much.  We were discussing certain recent events in which Mr. Horace Greeley
had played an important part, and after alluding to Mr. Greeley's course during the War, he
turned his eyes fully but mildly upon me and said slowly and solemnly:  ``Mr. White, don't
you think Mr. Greeley a very useless sort of man?''  The question struck me at first as exceedingly
comical; for, I thought, ``Imagine Mr. Greeley, who thinks himself, and with reason, a useful
man if there ever was one, and whose whole life has been devoted to what he has thought of
the highest and most direct use to his fellow-men, hearing this question put in a dreamy way
by a poet,--a writer of verse,--probably the last man in America whom Mr. Greeley would consider
`useful.' ''  But my old admiration for the great editor came back in a strong tide, and if
I was ever eloquent it was in showing Mr. Longfellow how great, how real, how sincere, and
in the highest degree how useful Mr. Greeley had been.

Another man of note whom I met in those days was Judge Rockwood Hoar, afterward named by General
Grant Attorney-General of the United States, noted as a profound lawyer of pungent wit and
charming humor, the delight of his friends and the terror of his enemies.  I saw him first
at Harvard during a competition for the Boylston prize at which we were fellow-judges.  All
the speaking was good, some of it admirable; but the especially remarkable pieces were two.
First of these was a recital of Washington Irving's ``Broken Heart,'' by an undergraduate from
the British provinces, Robert Alder McLeod.  Nothing could be more simple and perfect in its
way; nothing more free from any effort at orating; all was in the most quiet and natural manner
possible.  The second piece was a rendering of Poe's ``Bells,'' and was a most amazing declamation,
the different sorts of bells being indicated by changes of voice ranging from basso profondo
to the highest falsetto, and the feelings aroused in the orator being indicated by modulations
which must have cost him months of practice.

The contest being ended, and the committee having retired to make their award, various members
expressed an opinion in favor of Mr. McLeod's quiet recital, when Judge Hoar, who had seemed
up to that moment immersed in thought, seemed suddenly to awake, and said:  ``If I had a son
who spoke that bell piece in that style I believe I'd choke him.''  The vote was unanimously
in favor of Mr. McLeod, and then came out a curious fact.  Having noticed that he bore an empty
sleeve, I learned from Professor Peabody that he had lost his arm while fighting on the Confederate
side in our Civil War, and that he was a man of remarkably fine scholarship and noble character.
He afterward became an instructor at Harvard, but died early.

During the following autumn, in spite of my absorption in university interests, I was elected
a delegate to the State Convention, and in October made a few political speeches, the most
important being at Clinton, the site of Hamilton College.  This was done at the special request
of Senator Conkling, and on my way I passed a day with him at Utica, taking a long drive through
the adjacent country.  Never was he more charming.  The bitter and sarcastic mood seemed to
have dropped off him; the overbearing manner had left no traces; he was full of delightful
reminiscences and it was a day to be remembered.

I also spoke at various other places and, last of all, at Clifton Springs, but received there
a rebuff which was not without its uses.

I had thought my speeches successful; but at the latter place, taking the cars next morning,
I heard a dialogue between two railway employees, as follows:

``Bill, did you go to the meetin' last night?''  ``Yes.'' ``How was it?''  ``It wa'n't no meetin',
leastwise no P'LITICAL meetin'; there wa'n't nothin' in it fur the boys; it was only one of
them scientific college purfessors lecturin'.''  And so I sped homeward, pondering on many
things, but strengthened, by this homely criticism, in my determination to give my efforts
henceforth to the new university.  In the early spring of 1868 I went to Europe to examine
institutions for scientific and technological instruction, and to secure professors and equipment,
and during about six months I visited a great number of such schools, especially those in agriculture,
mechanical, civil, and mining engineering and the like in England, France, Germany, and Italy;
bought largely of books and apparatus, discussed the problems at issue with Europeans who seemed
likely to know most about them, secured sundry professors, and returned in September just in
time to take part in the opening of Cornell University and be inaugurated as its first president.
Of all this I shall speak more in detail hereafter.

There was no especial temptation to activity in the political campaign of that year; for the
election of General Grant was sure, and my main memory of the period is a visit to Auburn to
hear Mr. Seward.

It had been his wont for many years, when he came home to cast his vote, to meet his neighbors
on the eve of the election and give his views of the situation and of its resultant duties.
These occasions had come to be anticipated with the deepest interest by the whole region round
about, and what had begun as a little gathering of neighors  had now become such an assembly
that the largest hall in the place was crowded with voters of all parties.

But this year came a disappointment.  Although the contest was between General Grant,--who
on various decisive battle-fields had done everything to save the administration of which Mr.
Seward had been a leading member, --and on the other side, Governor Horatio Seymour, who had
done all in his power to wreck it, Mr. Seward devoted his speech to optimistic generalities,
hardly alluding to the candidates, and leaving the general impression that one side was just
as worthy of support as the other.

The speech was an unfortunate ending of Mr. Seward's career.  It was not surprising that some
of his old admirers bitterly resented it, and a remark by Mr. Cornell some time afterward indicated
much.  We were arranging together a program for the approaching annual commencement when I
suggested for the main address Mr. Seward.  So, to my regret, was lost the last chance to bring
the old statesman to Cornell.  I have always regretted this loss; his presence would have given
a true consecration to the new institution.  A career like his should not be judged by its
little defects and lapses, and this I felt even more deeply on receiving, some time after his
death, the fifth volume of his published works, which was largely made up of his despatches
and other papers written during the war.  When they were first published in the newspapers,
I often thought them long and was impatient at their optimism, but now, when I read them all
together, saw in them the efforts made by the heroic old man to keep the hands of European
powers off us while we were restoring the Union, and noted the desperation with which he fought,
the encouragement which he infused into our diplomatic representatives abroad, and his struggle,
almost against fate, in the time of our reverses, I was fascinated.  The book had arrived early
in the evening, and next morning found me still seated in my library chair completely absorbed
in it.

In the spring of the year 1870, while as usual in the thick of university work, I was again
drawn for a moment into the current of New York politics.  The long wished for amendment of
the State constitution, putting our highest tribunal, the Court of Appeals, on a better footing
than it had ever been before, making it more adequate, the term longer, and the salaries higher,
had been passed, and judges were to be chosen at the next election.  Each of the two great
parties was entitled to an equal number of judges, and I was requested to go to the approaching
nominating convention at Rochester in order to present the name of my old friend and neighbor,
Charles Andrews.

It was a most honorable duty, no man could have desired a better candidate, and I gladly accepted
the mandate.  Although it was one of the most staid and dignified bodies of the sort which
has ever met in the State, it had as a preface a pleasant farce.

As usual, the seething cauldron of New York City politics had thrown to the surface some troublesome
delegates, and among them was one long famed as a ``Tammany Republican.''

