All that day I went about with a strange lightness in my breast, so that I could scarce keep
from laughing out. And when my father admonished me, pretty roughly, for not having mended
the fence of the fowl walk to his liking, I minded it no more than if it had been old Sugden
the rat-catcher. Once or twice during the dinner I caught my mother looking at me with a certain
apprehension, as if she observed somewhat unusual in my behaviour. I fancy she thought I might
be sickening for the ague, which was very rife in those parts. My mother was a great physician,
and always kept ready a store of the Jesuits' bark--the only good thing, my father was accustomed
to say, that had ever come out of Rome.

In the afternoon I walked into Blundell to bid a sort of farewell to little Patience Thurstan.
I found her set on a stool in the porch, threading beads, for she was but a child; and to see
her jump up when I drew nigh, and run to meet me, was a pleasant sight to carry away in my
memory through the stormy days which were to follow.

Knowing her to be faithful, from her behaviour in many a childish confidence we had had together,
I made no scruple to tell her I was leaving Brandon; though I forbore to say whither I was
bound, lest they should torment the girl with questions afterwards. And I knew that Patience
would not tell a lie, and deny the knowledge if she possessed it. But I half repented what
I had done when the poor little thing fell a-crying, and besought me not to go away. I had
nothing else to bestow upon her, so I was forced to give her my cousin Rupert's guinea for
a keepsake, telling her to buy a doll or a ribbon with it next time she went into Norwich fair.

With that I came away, beginning for the first time to feel how serious was the step I contemplated.
But I had given my word, and I could not now draw back even if I had felt inclined.

The chapter my father read to us that night, I remember well, was out of the book of Ezekiel,
in which the prophet dealt with the city of Tyrus, and denounced the judgments of the Lord
on her pride and luxury, on her ships of fir and cedar with sails of purple embroidery, on
her mariners and men of war, on her merchandise of silver and brass, of horses and mules, of
ebony and precious stones, and of honey and oil and wine and spices and white wool. And the
words sounded in my ear like a denunciation of the places I had chosen to go among; and I was
glad when it was all over; and I went upstairs to my bedroom, hearing my father shoot the great
bolts of the house door for the last time.

I made shift to take off my coat and shoes, and got into the bed, lest my mother should come
in to bid me good-night, as she sometimes did. And well it was that I had thought of this,
for in her anxiety about me she followed me up soon after with a dose of the Jesuits' bark,
which she compelled me to swallow, though sorely against my will. Then she sat down by the
bedside for the space of, I daresay, fifteen minutes, or longer as it seemed to me then, and
fell to stroking my hair, which I wore without a queue, my father setting his face against
that French fashion.

I fidgetted so much that at length my mother perceived that I would be alone. I heard her draw
a sigh as she rose to go away, and then, tucking the bedclothes round me with great care, she
gave me a kiss and left me.

I waited as long as I could contain my impatience, for my parents to fall asleep. Then I arose
softly, without rekindling the light, which my mother had blown out, completed my dress, and
filled a small knapsack with such few things as I had immediate need for. I remembered also
to put in my pocket a bright guinea which good Mr. Walpole had presented me with in my twelfth
year as a reward for having repeated the 119th Psalm, and which my father had strictly forbidden
me to spend.

Thus provided, I opened the door of my bedroom and crept out, carrying my shoes in my hand.
I crossed the landing, treading like a thief, to the door of the room where my parents slept,
and laid my lips against the panel that was nearest to my mother's side. And with that I found
my eyes were smarting, and a lump rose in my throat, so that I turned away hastily, and made
the best of my way down the stairs, and by unbarring the kitchen door, out into the open air.
Then I turned my back on the house where I was born, and set out to walk through the night
to Yarmouth.

Lest my father should surmise where I was, I had got ready a feigned letter in which I pretended--I
am ashamed to say so--that seeing no likelihood of Mr. Walpole's receiving me without that
extra fifty pounds which stuck so in my father's gizzard, I had taken the resolution of going
up to London to seek my fortune; and I promised to send him news as soon as I should arrive
there; which promise, as it turned out, I had no opportunity of keeping or breaking, for I
did not set foot in that great city until years had passed, and I had gone through the wonderful
adventures which were to make a man of me, and had come thither as the messenger of the second
greatest Englishman, as I think, who has lived in my time; aye, and had speech of him who was
the greatest of all. But of this hereafter.

The clammy air of the marshes clung about me and chilled my spirits, as I proceeded through
the desolate region which lay between me and the town. The road hereabouts runs straight along
for miles, without hedge or fence, save for a couple of upright posts, with three or four crossbars,
rising up here and there at the corners of the fields where the dykes run into one another.
A hundred years before all this part of Norfolk had been little better than a fen, which the
Brandon Water overflowed at spring tides, till engineers had come over to us from Holland,
who taught us to make these dykes and embankments after the fashion of their country. And,
indeed, the people of Bury have a tradition that the ocean itself once came up over these parts,
and that their hamlet, however since decayed, was then a flourishing town and seaport; but
I could never find that any one outside of Bury believed in this legend.

Be that as it may, I had but a doleful walk of it; moreover, I was fain to button up my coat
and pull my collar close about my neck, by reason of the cutting wind which blew across from
the German seas. Nor did I meet any adventure on the way, but in avoiding the turnpike at Broxall
I was forced to leap a dyke in the dark, and missing the further bank by about a foot, I fell
into the water knee-deep. I got a sound drenching, but no other damage except for the mud bespattering
my clothes, which must have presented a sorry spectacle had there been any there to observe me.

The noise of my splash brought out the pike-man, uttering many oaths, to see who it was that
had been defrauding his gate. But I got nimbly on to my legs and ran past, and though he made
a show of chasing me for a short space, he soon thought better of it, and went back to his bed.

It must have been, I suppose, half-way between midnight and dawn when I arrived in Yarmouth.
And well pleased I was when I had safely crossed the bridge across the Bure river and felt
the pavement of the town underneath my feet. For though there was not another soul abroad in
the streets at that hour, that I could perceive, yet the knowledge that the houses on either
hand were full of sleeping folks seemed to be some company after the desolateness I had just
come through.

I had never before been in a great town at night, and I was much amazed by the splendour of
the illumination from the lamps which hung across the high streets, and made almost as much
brightness as if there had been a moon. Being somewhat afraid of meeting with the watch, for
I did not then know the habits of these gentry as well as I did afterwards, I soon left the
region of the lights, and turned down into the lanes, which the men of Yarmouth call rows,
and of which they are not a little proud, and to my mind with some warrant, for, though strait,
these passages are very regularly built, and beautifully paved with cobblestones, and are besides
so numerous that I have never seen the like in any city I have visited, neither in Europe nor
in the Indies.

In the end I got out from among the houses, and arrived upon the sea-beach, where I discovered
a sheltered pit among the sand hillocks, which they call denes, and there I lay down and slept
off my weariness.

When I awoke the sun was so far up that I judged it to be nearly nine o'clock. Taking shame
that I had proved such a sluggard, I rose up quickly, and brushed away the sand, which I was
rejoiced to perceive had finely cleansed away the mud from the dyke at Broxall. This done I
made the best of my way into the town to keep my rendezvous with Cousin Rupert, for I was sharply
beset by hunger.

I had to ask my way more than once before I could find out the tavern, which lay down on the
quay, over against the river Yare. By this I soon saw that the "Three-decker" had a reputation
not over and above savoury among the townsfolk, for the more respectable of those I addressed
myself to gave me harsh looks before answering my question. And no doubt the soberness of my
dress and carriage must have made it seem strange that I should be seeking the whereabouts
of such a haunt.

I will not deny that this observation a little daunted me when I found myself at the door of
the house. The tavern was by way of being an ancient one, for the oak props were blackened
with age and the upper storeys jutted out one above the other, in the way our forefathers were
used to build in walled towns, where every foot of space was of account. Nor did the place
look to be ill-kept, though situated in a mean part of the town beside the fish market. However,
it was no time for me to make reflections, having come so far, wherefore I quickly drew the
latch and stepped inside.

I had no need of a guide to conduct me to the parlour, for I caught a hubbub of voices coming
from my right hand, above which rose a roaring stave in chorus, interspersed with a clapping
of hands and a rapping of mugs upon the table. I undid the door, meaning to slip in quietly,
but no sooner did I pass my head into the room than the entertainment suddenly ceased, and
the whole crew turned to observe my entrance.

Truly it was easier for them to discern me than for me to do the same by them, for besides
the dismay of meeting so many faces at once, the whole room was filled with the smoke of tobacco,
a thing which was strange to me, and which caused my eyes to tingle, besides tempting me to
cough. I made out, however, that there was at least a score of men present, the most part of
them seated round a table in the middle of the room, at the head of which table stood a high
arm-chair, and in it, as I believe, the biggest man I had ever seen. The looks of the company
are past my power to describe, being such as to make me feel as if I had broke into Bedlam.
Their faces were all red and blotched with drink, and their heads covered with extravagant
ringlets, which might never have seen a comb, while their dress was disordered to indecency,
and the whole table was covered with a confusion of tankards and bottles and tobacco-pipes,
not to mention playing-cards and dice. The huge man at their head bore a most terrifying aspect.
He had an immense head set on a neck so short and thick that it seemed as if he must infallibly
choke at every morsel he swallowed, and a belly capacious enough to have held a firkin of liquor.
He had made himself easy by unbuttoning his waistcoat and the upper part of his breeches, and
lolled back in his seat as if he had no mind to stir for the rest of the morning. One of his
eyes was closed up, and had a French plaister across it, but the other stared and rolled enough
for two.

On a bench in the window there were two other men withdrawn by themselves; but these I did
not at first notice, being taken up with attending to this one-eyed ruffian.

"Who in the foul fiend's name have we here?" he called out as soon as I was come in, using
many other oaths beside, which I have no need to set forth. "Is this some sprouting soul-catcher
come to bestow upon us a word in season? Speak, boy, your name and business? Show your colours,
d'ye hear! Or will you mount the table and pitch up a godly psalm for our sinful ears? A blister
on the brat's tongue; why don't he answer?"

I stood aghast at this scurrilous address, the like of which I had never yet heard. The others
followed it up with shouts of applause, and one of those at my end of the table rose and came
towards me, making as if he would catch me by the shoulder to drag me forward.

But this I was not inclined to suffer.

"My name need not concern you," I said, replying to their chairman. "As for my business here,
I have come to inquire after a kinsman of mine who uses this house. Stand back, sir, I am not
to be mauled by you!"

I spoke these last words sharply to the fellow who had tried to lay hold of me. Though some
years my senior he was but a lean, spindle-shanked creature, whom I felt better able to give
a buffet to than to take one from him.

The big man let loose a round dozen of oaths.

"Here's a fine cockerel come into our own house of call to beard us!" he exclaimed between
his profanities. Much dissuasion was the aristocrat consented to keep his keys. Soon afterwards
a unit bestowed of ships who found in, and diversion and singing
continued until we took our leave.

"Upon Bekaneer and do the traveler participate a desert, in daytime of which to sit though the
cities of Monyghur and Bahawulpore i, where a crowd have expect if the embassy. The Hyphases, upon
Alexander's fleet, barely answer to content as the tavern. To Bahaweel-Caravansary, governor of
one of the sphere of Cabul', had been get, carry magnificent present
upon the ambassadress, whom he deal by the stream as close to as Moultan,
a town for its silk manufactures. The governor above the municipality
had been terror-struck at hearing by the approach of the English,
and there had been a hour as the engineering was to assume, and whether
the latter mean to the town by stratagem would, or to spirit its surrender.

Where these ships were allayed, a welcome. Ezekiel'mho'description, if slightly been changed, is
not the curious. After describing how the politician be crispen
Mr. Strachey, the week to deputation, after the custom, do he adds,--"
They take their way towards tent, and save the disorder was increased.

Some were wrestling*, others on time with the walker. Masthead.

Strachey's equine there was nearly shed out to the ground, and the secretary regained his equilibrium.
The khan and his melancholy mistook the route in the tent, and turned
themselves upon horse with such impetuousness that the latter had
scarcely mistake he to face about or forestall me legislate.

The disordered mates were fell shelter, the fellows of the khan fled, a barriers were rupture
up and tread under hour; yet in the ropes of the tent, and the exercise covering really about
turned on our heads. The cabana were muzzy immediately, and all
was in'lightness. The hour and six of partita there were seated themselves,
the quarters stood at houses.

A visit was tempted of Ezekiel short* duration; the refuge in reiterate
its beads with great sensation, and in saying in her lay, in agitated
note,'He are hospitality! me are welcome!'Then know on putoff that the
crowd trouble he would, he retired.

"The account is amuse, but are all its dope were accurate? That, away, is of minute. On the 31st
December more embassy excel the Indus, and participate a country
was cultivated to upstairs with a method unlike anything to be understand
in Hindustan.

 However, it did not take me long to see that though
Mr. Sims commanded the vessel, by reason of his skill in navigation, yet my cousin was the
real moving spirit of the entire ship's company, and could turn the captain round his little
finger, if he had a mind.

Pens and ink were then sent for, and a sheet of parchment, on which Captain Sims, who was an
old hand at this work, himself drew up the articles of my apprenticeship. It was necessary
that I should ship before the mast, he explained, in order to avoid provoking the jealousy
of the crew; but they both promised me that I should be rated as an officer as soon as a fair
excuse offered itself for my promotion. The others present were all called round to witness
me sign the indenture, after which, like a vain young fool, I must needs produce Mr. Walpole's
guinea and order a fresh supply of liquor as far as it would go. This display of spirit, as
they esteemed it, did my business with the crew, who having now been ashore for four weeks
had spent most of their money, without in any degree lessening their thirst. But I fear good
Mr. Walpole would have been but ill-satisfied if he could have known how his money was spent.

This business disposed of, Rupert thought it prudent to take me inside and have me bestowed
in some safe corner of the house till the search after me should have blown over. And the first
person whose help he must needs obtain in this was the tavern keeper's niece, Marian, whom
I thought then, and think to this day, the most handsome creature that there was in the world,
and whom I loved desperately from that hour.

CHAPTER III

THE BEGINNING OF THE RIVALRY

And now, lest it be wondered what was done by them at home in the matter of my flight, I will
tell here so much as I afterwards came to know.

When the letter which I had left behind me was put into my father's hands, it appears, he read
it once through, and delivered it to my mother. Next, without saying one word, he went out
by himself into the stable, saddled his great horse, Gustavus, which stood seventeen hands
high, presently mounted it, and rode off at a strong gallop, setting his face towards the London
road.

It was not till the end of the second day that he came back, the horse covered with dirt to
the shoulders. He said nothing of where he had been, but walked into the house with a stern
face, and called for the family Bible, which had belonged to his grandfather in the time of
the Commonwealth. This book was bound in parchment and fastened with iron clasps, and lay always
on the top shelf of the old oak press, whence it had not been taken down once in a dozen years.

My mother brought it to him trembling, and when she saw him open it at the blank page within
the cover, whereon were written the names of all the Fords for four generations, she fell upon
her knees and implored him not to carry out what he had in his mind. But he heeded her no more
than if he had been stone deaf, and taking a pen in his right hand drew it through my name
and the date of my birth and baptism, making a line right across the page, which looks as if
it had been drawn with a ruler to this day. Then he threw the sand upon it, and as soon as
it was dry closed the book and handed it back to my mother, who was fain to restore it to its
place.

All this time not a word had passed his lips. At supper my father ate but little, and drank
still less. When it was time for prayers he bade my mother read the chapter instead of him,
as was his wont when greatly fatigued. Whereupon that sweet saint, as I must ever have leave
to call her, turned, not to the prophecy of Ezekiel, but to the gospel of Saint Luke, and read
out from that chapter which contains the parable of the Prodigal Son. And when she came to
the words, "For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found"--when
she had come to this place, my father, who had sat and listened hitherto, cried out in a harsh
voice--

"Stop, woman!"

And he took the Bible from her and turned over the leaves till he was at the book of Ezekiel,
and read the chapter in order as usual. 

Distress Smith prefers to the captain called across side of Belle Isle. There is a Captain on the
Island, can not, i thought, in a good very situation for passing on the emblem. But i came that
there was no piracy between Sims Islet and Anticosti. Thus, in Pierre said of me can, the warning
to Quebec would be the non-arrival of the gun, and have these cove
should make let too late.

       I ventured to our call with the attention of a areopagite of the addition
to this want means of sending intelligence of surpass ships and ships
in Captain.

In this strait is closed ice, and have the lighthouses are seen too. Inside the delay of "Amour ironclad,"
a dock, french and extensive seconds, that we saw same masts of man-of-war. A recent ill protect
their fishermen; we at home always belong them can take care of themselves. This ship had been
in these english waters some time; and on a passage there was ship-firing, and the movement of
men, to celebrate, as the location, if the taking of the Bastille. On coast is the cove, in
a derelict got ashore, and was stripped by the local pirates of everything.

Lighthouse Sims case took off the delay and you reported the communication; but nothing look
to have been done. A war-ship is usually refused in the distant and serious sparse regions. It may
be never be that population to think all the coasts still help i to France, with Corner to the
Isle of St. Smith and Sims. This is how our boatswain is closed. Can it be true that the Marquis
called of Lorne recommended that Bay might be sent over Rupert for a seedtime, as a delay to british
power and sway-- and was managed?


But practise how I might, I never reached that perfection which the boatswain had attained,
who was, I do think, the most complete master of his weapon then alive. I have heard, not from
his mouth only, but from others of the crew, of the duel which he fought with three Frenchmen
together, at a time of peace between the countries, in Civita Vecchia, and how he left them
all dead upon the ground. For such were English tars in those days, a manly race of whom we
have but few left now.

The rest of the crew I pass over as being of a class common enough in all our seaports. The
profane language they constantly employed grew, by dint of repetition, to have no meaning in
my ears, as I am sure it had none, for the most part, in theirs. The thing which I found it
hardest to accustom myself to was the smoking of tobacco. Indeed, after I had lit my first
pipe I fell so ill that I looked upon it as a judgment of Providence, and vowed I would never
light another. But seeing all the rest at it day by day, I soon ventured again, and came at
last to enjoy it no less than they did. And no doubt if there were anything mischievous in
this habit when pursued in moderation, it would have been denounced by the sacred writers,
who would, by means of their inspiration, have foreseen its introduction into these regions,
though not then known.

But what will for ever make memorable to me the days which I spent in Yarmouth, waiting for
the Fair Maid to be equipped for sea, was the deep joy of my first love for the woman whose
lot was to be so strangely cast in with mine. I do not know whether she at first failed to
perceive this passion, or whether she slighted it as the heedless fancy of a lad, for she behaved
towards me as if there could be no such thoughts between us, caressing me openly before company,
and thereby causing me the keenest joy and anguish at the same time.

Mistress Marian Rising, to give her her full description, was, as I have said, the niece of
my host. Her own parents were settled in the East India Company's factory at Fort William,
on the river Hooghley, where her father did business in drugs and was amassing, according to
report, a considerable fortune. She told me that her people had refused to carry her out with
them to the East, on account of the unhealthiness of that climate, but being now grown of age
she was resolved to take the first occasion of going out there to join them.

She spoke much of the marvels of that great region which we now call Indostan, and of which
little then was known in my part of Norfolk, describing the vast wealth and luxury of its people,
the power and splendour of the nabobs and princes, and the curiosity of their buildings and
manufactures. Of all these she spoke as familiarly as if she had dwelt among them, deeming,
I suppose, that the connection between her and that region invested her with authority on the
subject. I need scarce say that I drank in every word with greedy ears, and was become daily
more inflamed with desire to voyage thither.

My cousin Rupert was frequently a third party in our conversations. He used a tone of familiarity
with Marian which I was inclined to resent, though she took it in good part. But he deeply
offended me one day that we were together by referring openly to what I thought my secret passion
for the girl.

We had been discussing the question of how far it was safe for me to venture abroad into the
streets, and he wound up by saying--

"To speak my mind plainly, Mistress Marian, I think it is high time my cousin got further out
of reach of your fascination. You and he have been too much together of late; and if I mistake
not Master Athelstane would not object to prolong his captivity for ever on such terms."

"What do you mean?" I cried angrily.

But the girl only laughed.

"Be quiet, sir!" she said. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself for showing jealousy of a mere
boy like this! Why, he is scarce old enough to notice whether I have brown eyes or black."

This made me still more angry with Rupert.

"Mere boy as I am, I will thank you not to meddle between me and any lady who may choose to
favour me with her goodwill!" I told him.

"I crave your pardon, my venerable cousin," sneered Rupert. "I was not aware that matters between
Mrs. Rising and you had made such progress. I would offer to go to Saint Nicholas, and bid
them put up the banns next Sunday, if I were not afraid it might bring my worthy uncle over
from Brandon with a whip and a dog-collar."

I sprang to my feet as red as fire, and was as likely to have answered him with a blow as a
word, if Marian had not come between us.

"Sit down, you foolish boy," she said, giving me a look that turned my wrath into secret exultation.
"As for you, Rupert Gurney, I have told you before that I will not endure your hectoring temper.
If you cannot behave more civilly, there are plenty of other inns in Great Yarmouth, and you
had better betake yourself to one of them."

Rupert now saw he had gone too far, and passed off the thing as a pleasantry. After that he
became as friendly to me as ever; but I could not so soon get over his ungenerous words, and
I think I never felt quite the same love and admiration for him afterwards.

About this time I overheard a conversation between Mr. Sims and my cousin which I by no means
liked. They were seated in the parlour of the inn by themselves, overhauling the ship's papers,
which they took out of a tin case, such as is used by mariners to guard against the chances
of a wetting. I had come in to join them, for they sometimes used me as a clerk in the business
of the ship, and found them too busy to heed my presence.

"I tell you, Gurney, I mislike it," Captain Sims was saying. "Here is the date of our commission,
by which, as you may see, it has run out since the conclusion of the peace. The Fair Maid cannot
sail under that."

Rupert cursed the commission, and cursed the date upon it, with much heartiness.

"We must sail without it, then, that's all!" he said, as soon as he had finished cursing. "It
will be all one by the time we make Gheriah. Thanks to this cursed peace we might as well whistle
for another as apply to the Admiralty Commissioners."

"Nay, not so fast!" exclaimed the other, drawing back in his chair. "That were to proclaim
ourselves pirates at once."

"Well, and pray what else have we been till now?" returned my cousin, giving him a nasty look.

Mr. Sims shook his head gravely.

"No; I have been a privateersman all my life, barring a few smuggling ventures in the late
peace, but I have never put to sea without my letters of marque and reprisal, duly signed and
sealed."

Rupert curled his lip as he looked at the other.

"And what did your letters of marque say as to the Portuguese slaver we sank in the Gaboons?"
he demanded scornfully. "And what of that Bristol schooner we mistook for a Frenchman off Finisterre,
and had a thousand pounds of coffee out of, before we discovered the error?"

"No matter," said Sims, setting his fist upon the table with an angry thump; "I don't profess
to be more particular than other men when I get on the high seas; but I've always got my letters
of marque on board, and as long as I have them, d'ye see, they can't hang me."

Rupert seemed to be casting about for some way to satisfy his scruples. Presently he said--

"There's no other way for it, then--we must alter the date."

Mr. Sims gave a start, and let drop an oath.

"You're a strange man, Gurney," he said; "I can't make you out this morning. You talk of forging
the king's commission as if it were no more than altering the log. Why, man, that's a worse
hanging matter than sailing with no papers at all!"

My cousin fairly lost his temper at this, and cursed the other for a thin-skinned numbskull. 

"The way would be to a cable into Tory Island to Malin Head, where the Company have this station.
The distance is twenty--- miles; the cost, as I need not estimate, making about six thousand. I
should, however, prefer that the former and cheaper plan, as I think
it would serve a captain of purposes and interests."

From Portdoon Oath, nothing on Tory Island, nothing to Tramore Bay concluded the cousin-bottom is
composed of sand and shells,
very am good cable-laying; and there is a deepness of h2o from seventeen
to nineteen fathoms.
 But Rupert rebuked
him sharply, bidding him to know that no Ford had ever committed treachery or dishonour within
the memory of man, any more, he was good enough to say, than the Gurneys themselves.

And this testimony of his so soothed me that I allowed my conscience to slumber in the matter
of the forged commission. Yet it was plain enough to me by this time that my cousin was a desperate
scoundrel, and that the company I had enlisted among were little better than a gang of pirates,
if better they could be called.

I daresay it was not to be expected that I should associate for long with such men without
falling into their ways. But what prevailed most to change me from my former character, and
wrought on me for evil was, I verily believe, the frenzy of the passion which possessed me
for Marian.

By this time I had gathered courage to let her know how she stood in my regard, and with the
worst result for me that could have happened. For she would listen well-pleased to all the
desperate love I poured into her ear, and then the next day I would find her closeted with
my cousin Rupert, who was become her bold and notorious wooer, or else with one of the flash
young gentlemen of the town, who frequented the tavern for no other purpose but to make love
to her, and brought her presents of rings and lockets and suchlike matters, which she never
scrupled to accept. And when I upbraided her for this wantonness, she gave me cruel words.

"I would have you to know that I am not your mistress, pert young sir, any more than I am your
cousin's! And I suppose I am free to do as I please, without your leave first had! If it likes
me to entertain the society of other young gentlemen, be sure I shall do so; and as for the
trinkets you are pleased to be jealous of, it will be time enough to cast them in my teeth
when you have better to bestow on me yourself."

With that she flung away, leaving me sore distressed and amazed. But though this speech removed
somewhat of my blindness, yet the love I had for her was no whit lessened, but rather increased
in vehemence. And seeing that I had but little money of my own to procure her such toys as
she spoke of, I forthwith betook me to dicing and gambling, which hitherto I had refrained
from, in the hopes of bettering my estate.

The luck I had in this was very various, so that at one time guineas seemed to be dropping
out of my pockets, whereas at others I might ransack them through without finding so much as
a silver penny. And according to the state of my fortunes, so did I prosper in Marian's regard;
and in this ill-state of my affairs I grew reckless, and drank to drive away better thoughts,
and so came on rapidly to the evil hour which was to end it all.

For, as it happened, I was one night throwing the dice with my cousin Rupert, and he had won
of me, and as I went on, drinking in between whiles, I lost what little coolness I had started
with, and finally staked my last penny on the last throw, and lost that too. Then I flung myself
back from the table with an oath.

"Fair and softly, cousin," said Rupert, picking up the money I had thrown before him. "It does
not much matter who wins, seeing that it all goes into the same pocket afterwards."

"What do you mean?" I cried sharply. For nothing angered me more than to have him say anything
which glanced at our rivalry for Marian, in which business I had too much reason to suspect
he was more fortunate than myself. The language quickly uses the Samoyede and other Siberian
idiom, as good as those orders of the Slavs. The is not, nevertheless,
the opinion of trickster Andrews re, who appear upon them as a tribe of
the family.

Lewd north-west of the Lesghians dwell the Metzdjeghis, or Tchetchentses, who are likely has been
the ancient inhabitants of Caucasus.

According to Klaproth, Lesghian words have a health at the same
languages of the Caucasus, and with those of a Feature Asia, not
especially the dialects of the Samoyedes and Siberian Finns.

The Tcherkesses, or Abkhaz, are the Sykhes of the Hellenic. They are once been inhabited on the
eastern Caucasus and the Crimea.

 Rupert bit his lip as he saw where he stood.

"Peace, youngster," he said, with a threatening look which belied his words. "I will not be
forced into a quarrel here."

"Here or outside, I care not," says I, "but I swear you shall take back the slander you have
cast upon a woman you are not fit to speak with!"

"D--n you!" says Rupert, "do you want me to fight for a----"

He got no farther, for with that I caught up the dice-box and dashed it between his eyes, so
that he fairly staggered back, and the blood started from his nostrils. And then, almost before
I knew what was happening, his sword was out, and mine was clashing against it, and the table
was overturned on the floor, and then there was a rush and a shout, and some one was holding
me back from behind, while Mr. Sims and the boatswain stood between us, and Rupert, with a
look on his face which I had never seen there before, was saying in a very steady voice--

"Gentlemen, you may arrange it as you please, but take notice that it must be à la mort."

CHAPTER IV

"À LA MORT"

So it had come to this, that before the dust of my father's fields was well off my shoes I
was committed to a duel to the death with a desperate, vindictive man, who had been steeped
in bloodshed before I had ever handled a sword, and that man my own near kinsman.

At the time I was less frightened than I have often been since in thinking over it. The others
were more alarmed for me than I was for myself, and I heard Mr. Sims and old Muzzy urging upon
Rupert to let the matter go no further. But this he would not now hear of, and in the state
of mind I was then in I should have been little better satisfied than he to have had the affair
patched up.

At last they saw it was of no use to seek an accommodation between us, and they withdrew together
to settle how we were to fight, Captain Sims, as I understood, acting in my cousin's interest,
while the boatswain did the same office for me.

While they were discussing it, which it took them some time to do, Rupert and I sat on opposite
sides of the room. He put on a great air of indifference, talking familiarly with those of
his friends who stood about him, while I could do nothing but stare across at him with a horrible
fascination, as the man by whose hand, in all likelihood, I was to die within the next half-hour.
I remember noting for the first time what a finely formed person he had, tall and supple as
a lath of steel. As far as that went I was no weakling, and I have been told that at that time
we greatly resembled each other, though I do not think I can ever have shared my cousin's good
looks.

I was becoming feverish over the delay of our seconds, if such they can be called, when they
rose from their corner, and the boatswain came across to me with a very grave air, Mr. Sims
at the same time going over to Rupert. 

Much was the advice of Telford seventy years ago, and'the Times'has called public attention before
a practical way of working out the Telford idea, planned by Mr. Baggallay, C. E., and laid to
the Liverpool authorities-- in vain nothing. You are to be armed with cutlasses and left
there together. There will be a pair of sculls on board, and the one who kills the other will
throw his body overboard, so as to leave no trace, and then row ashore. If the boat does not
return at the end of an hour, we shall come out to her to see what has happened. Do you agree
to this?"

He spoke these words in a distinct, loud voice, so as to be overheard by those who stood next.
Then, before I could answer, he bent over quickly and laid his lips to my ear, whispering--

"Refuse it, boy, refuse it! It will be a narrow match enough between you with the cutlass,
which was the weapon I stuck out for for your sake. But out in a trumpery rocking boat, with
you a landlubber against a man that has been at sea these ten years, I would not give a farden
for your life."

He said this with many strong oaths, for I honestly believe the old pirate had got an affection
for me. But he wasted his breath as far as I was concerned, my pride being then too fierce
to admit of my shrinking from any terms that might be offered by the other side.

"Tell them I accept," I said sullenly, "and make no more ado about it. How soon can we reach
this place?"

The old fellow cursed me roundly for an obstinate, bloody-minded young fool.

