The body of the Christians, as you may well suppose, Fausta, is in a state of much agitation.
Though they cannot discern plainly the form of the danger that impends, yet they discern it;
and the very obscurity in which it is involved adds to their fears. It is several days since
I last wrote, yet not a word has come from the palace. Aurelian is seen as usual in all public
places; at the capitol, taking charge of the erection and completion of various public edifices;
or, if at the palace, he rides as hard as ever, and as much, upon his Hippodrome; or, if at
the Pretorian camp, he is exact and severe as ever in maintaining the discipline of the Legions.
He has issued no public order of any kind that bears upon us. Yet not only the Christians,
but the whole city, stand as if in expectation of measures of no little severity, going at
least to the abridgement of many of our liberties, and to the deprivation of many of our privileges.
This is grounded chiefly, doubtless, upon the reported imprisonment of Aurelia; for, though
some have little hesitation in declaring their belief, that she has been made way with, others
believe it not at all; and none can assign a reason for receiving one story rather than another.
How Isaac came to be possessed of his information I do not know, but it bore all the marks
of truth. He would inform me neither how he came by it, nor would he allow it to be communicated.
But it would never be surprising to discover, that of my most private affairs he has a better
knowledge than myself.

Do not, from what I have said, conceive of the Christians as giving any signs of unmanly fear.
They perceive that danger threatens, but they change not their manner of life, not turn from
the daily path of their pursuits. Believing in a providence, they put their trust in it. Their
faith stands them in stead as a sufficient support and refuge. They cannot pretend, any more
than Isaac, to see through the plans and purposes of Heaven. They pretend not to know, nor
to be able to explain to another, why, if what they receive is the truth, and they are true
believers in a true religion, they should be exposed to such sufferings for its sake; and that
which is false, and injurious as false, should triumph. It is enough for them, they say, to
be fully persuaded; to know, and possess, the truth. They can never relinquish it; they will
rather die. But, whether Christianity die with them or not, they cannot tell--that they leave
to God. They do not believe that it will--prophecy, and the present condition of the world,
notwithstanding a present overhanging cloud, give them confidence in the ultimate extension
and power of their faith. At any rate it shall receive no injury at their hands. They have
professed it during twenty years of prosperity, and have boasted of it before the world--they
shall profess it with the same boldness, and the same grateful attachment, now that adversity
approaches. They are fixed--calm--unmoved. Except for a deeper tone of earnestness and feeling
when you converse with them, and a cast of sadness upon the countenance, you would discern
no alteration in their conduct or manner.

I might rather say that, in a very large proportion, there are observable the signs of uncommon
and almost unnatural exhilaration. They even greet the coming of trouble as that which shall
put their faith to the test, shall give a new testimony of the readiness of Christians to suffer,
and, like the former persecution, give it a new impulse forwards. They seek occasions of controversy
and conversation with the Pagans at public places, at their labor, and in the streets. The
preachers assume a bolder, louder tone, and declaim with ten times more vehemence than ever
against the enormities and abominations of the popular religions. Often at the market-places,
and at the corners of the streets, are those to be seen, not authorized preachers perhaps,
but believers and overflowing with zeal, who, at the risk of whatever popular fury and violence,
hold forth the truth in Christ, and denounce the reigning idolatries and superstitions.

At the head of these is Macer; at their head, both as respects the natural vigor of his understanding,
and the perfect honesty and integrity of his mind, and his dauntless courage. Every day, and
all the day, is he to be found in the streets of Rome, sometimes in one quarter, sometimes
in another, gathering an audience of the passengers or idlers, as it may be, and sounding in
their ears the truths of the new religion. That he, and others of the same character, deserve
in all they do the approbation of the Christian body, or receive it, is more than can be said.
They are often, by their violences in the midst of their harangues, by harsh and uncharitable
denunciations, by false and exaggerated statements, the causes of tumult and disorder, and
contribute greatly to increase the general exasperation against us. With them it seems to be
a maxim, that all means are lawful in a good cause. Nay, they seem rather to prefer the ruder
and rougher forms of attack. They seem possessed of the idea that the world is to be converted
in a day, and that if men will not at once relinquish the prejudices or the faith of years,
they are fit but for cursings and burnings. In setting forth the mildest doctrine the world
ever knew, delivered to mankind by the gentlest, the most patient and compassionate being it
ever saw they assume a manner and use a language so entirely at variance with their theme,
that it is no wonder if prejudices are strengthened oftener than they are set loose, incredulity
made more incredulous, and the hardened yet harder of heart. They who hear notice the discrepancy,
and fail not to make the use of it they may. When will men learn that the mind is a fortress
that can never be taken by storm? You may indeed enter it rudely and by violence, and the signs
of submission shall be made: but all the elements of opposition are still there. Reason has
not been convinced; errors and misconceptions have not been removed, by a wise and logical
and humane dealing, and supplanted by truths well proved, and shown to be truths;--and the
victory is one in appearance only. And, what is more, violence, on the part of the reformer
and assailant, begets violence on the other side. The whole inward man, with all his feelings,
prejudices, reason, is instantly put into a posture of defence; not only of defence, for that
were right, but of angry defence, which is wrong. Passion is up, which might otherwise have
slept; and it is passion, never reason, which truth has to fear. The intellect in its pure
form, the advocate of truth would always prefer to meet, for he can never feel sure of a single
step made till this has been gained. But intellect, inflamed by passion, he may well dread,
as what there is but small hope even of approaching, much less of convincing.

Often has Probus remonstrated with this order of men, but in vain. They heed him not, but in
return charge him with coldness and indifference, worldliness, and all other associated faults.
Especially has he labored to preserve Macer from the extremes to which he has run; for he has
seen in him an able advocate of Christian truth, could he but be moderated and restrained.
But Macer, though he has conceived the strongest affection for Probus, will not allow himself
in this matter to be influenced by him. He holds himself answerable to conscience and God alone
for the course he pursues. As for the consequences that may ensue, either to himself or his
family, his mind cannot entertain them. It is for Christ he lives, and for Christ he is ready
to die.

I had long wished to meet him and witness his manner both of acting and of preaching, and yesterday
I was fortunate enough to encounter him. I shall give you, as exactly as I can, what took place;
it will show you better than many letters could do what, in one direction, are our present
position and prospects.

I was in the act of crossing the great avenue, which, on the south, leads to the Forum, when
I was arrested by a disorderly crowd, such as we often see gathered suddenly in the street
of a city about a thief who has been caught, or a person who has been trodden down on the pavement.
It moved quickly in the direction of the tribunal of Varus, and, what was my surprise, to behold
Macer, in the midst, with head aloft, and inflamed countenance, holding in his grasp, and dragging
onwards, one, who would willingly have escaped. The crowd seemed disposed, as I judged by the
vituperations that were directed against Macer, to interfere, but were apparently deterred
by both the gigantic form of Macer and their vicinity to the tribunal, whither he was going.
Waiting till they were at some distance in advance of me, I then followed, determined to judge
for myself of this singular man. I was with them in the common hall before the prefect had
taken his seat. When seated at his tribunal, he inquired the cause of the tumult, and who it
was that wished to appeal to him.

'I am the person,' said Macer; 'and I come to drag to justice this miscreant--'

'And who may you be?'

'I should think Varus might recognize Macer.'

'It is so long since I met thee last at the Emperor's table, that thy features have escaped me.'

At which, as was their duty, the attendant rabble laughed.

'Is there any one present,' continued the prefect, 'who knows this man?'

'Varus need apply to no other than myself,' said Macer. 'I am Macer, the son of that Macer
who was neighbor of the gladiator Pollex,--'

'Hold, I say,' interrupted the prefect; 'a man witnesses not here of himself. Can any one here
say that this man is not crazy or drunk?'

'Varus! prefect Varus--' cried Macer, his eyes flashing lightning, and his voice not less than
thunder; but he was again interrupted.

'Peace, slave! or rods shall teach thee where thou art.' And at the same moment, at a sign
from Varus, he was laid hold of with violence by officials of the place armed with spears and
rods, and held.

'What I wish to know then,' said Varus, turning to the crowd, 'is, whether this is not the
street brawler, one of the impious Gallileans, a man who should long ago have been set in the
stocks to find leisure for better thoughts?'

Several testified, as was desired, that this was he.

'This is all I wish to know,' said the prefect. 'The man is either without wits, or they are
disordered, or else the pestilent faith he teaches has made the nuisance of him he is, as it
does of all who meddle with it. It is scarcely right that he should be abroad. Yet has he committed
no offence that condemns him either to scourging or the prison. Hearken therefore, fellow!
I now dismiss thee without the scourging thou well deservest; but, if thou keep on thy wild
and lawless way, racks and dungeons shall teach thee what there is in Roman justice. Away with
him!'

'Romans! Roman citizens!' cried Macer; 'are these your laws and this your judge?--'

'Away with him, I say!' cried the prefect; and the officers of the palace hurried him out of
the hall.

As he went, a voice from the crowd shouted,

'Roman citizens, Macer, are long since dead. 'Tis a vain appeal.'

'I believe you,' replied Macer; 'tyrant and slave stand now for all who once bore the proud
name of Roman.'

This violence and injustice on the part of Varus must be traced--for though capricious, and
imperious, this is not his character--to the language of Macer in the shop of Publius, and
to his apprehension lest the same references to his origin, which he would willingly have forgotten,
should be made, and perhaps more offensively still, in the presence of the people. Probus,
on the former occasion, lamented deeply that Macer should have been tempted to rehearse in
the way he did some of the circumstances of the prefect's history, as its only end could be
to needlessly irritate the man of power, and raise up a bitterer enemy than we might otherwise
have found in him.

Upon leaving the tribunal, I was curious to watch still further the movements of the Christian.
The crowd about him increased rather than diminished, as he left the building and passed into
the street. At but a little distance from the hall of the prefect, stands the Temple of Peace,
with its broad and lofty flights of steps. When Macer had reached it he paused, and looked
round upon the motley crowd that had gathered about him.

'Go up! go up!' cried several voices. 'We will hear thee.'

'There is no prefect here,' cried another.

Macer needed no urging, but quickly strode up the steps, till he stood between the central
columns of the temple and his audience had disposed themselves below him in every direction,
when he turned and gazed upon the assembled people, who had now--by the addition of such as
passed along, and who had no more urgent business than to attend to that of any others whom
they might chance to meet,--grown to a multitude. After looking upon them for a space, as if
studying their characters, and how he could best adapt his discourse to their occasions, he
suddenly and abruptly broke out--

'You have asked me to come up here; and I am here; glad for once to be in such a place by invitation.
And now I am here, and am about to speak, you will expect me to say something of the Christians.'

'Yes yes.'

'But I shall not--not yet. Perhaps by and by. In the meantime my theme shall be the prefect!
the prefect Varus!'

'A subject full of matter,' cried one near Macer.

'Better send for him,' said another. 'Twere a pity he lost it.'

'Yes,' continued Macer, 'it is a subject full of matter, and I wish myself he were here to
see himself in the mirror I would hold before him; he could not but grow pale with affright.
You have just had a sample of Roman justice! How do you like it, Romans? I had gone there to
seek justice; not for a Christian, but against a Christian. A Christian master had abused his
slave with cruelty, I standing by; and when to my remonstrance--myself feeling the bitter stripes
he laid on--he did but ply his thongs the more, I seized the hardened monster by the neck,
and wrenching from his grasp the lash, I first plied it upon his own back, and then dragged
him to the judgment-seat of Varus,--'

'O fool!'

'You say well--fool that I was, crying for justice! How I was dealt with, some of you have
seen. There, I say, was a sample of Roman justice for you! So in these times does power sport
itself with poverty. It was not so once in Rome. Were Cincinnatus or Regulus at the tribunal
of Varus, they would fare like the soldier Macer. And who, Romans, is this Varus? and why is
he here in the seat of authority? At the tribunal, Varus did not know me. But what if I were
to tell you there was but a thin wall between the rooms where we were born, and that when we
were boys we were ever at the same school!--not such schools as you are thinking of, where
the young go for letters and for Greek, but the school where many of you have been and are
now at, I dare say, the school of Roman vice, which you may find always open all along the
streets, but especially where I and Varus were, in one of the sinks near the Flavian. Pollex,
the gladiator, was father of Varus!--not worse, but just as bad, as savage, as beastly in his
vices, as are all of that butcher tribe. My father--Macer too--I will not say more of him than
that he was keeper of the Vivaria of the amphitheatre, and passed his days in caging and uncaging
the wild beasts of Asia and Africa; in feeding them when there were no games on foot, and starving
them when there were. Varus, the prefect, Romans, and I, were at this school till I joined
the legions under Valerian, and he, by a luckier fortune, as it would be deemed, found favor
in the eyes of Gallienus, to whom, with his fair sister Fannia, he was sold by those demons
Pollex and Cæicina. I say nothing of how it fared with him in that keeping. Fannia has long
since found the grave. Is Varus one who should sit at the head of Rome? He is a man of blood,
of crime, of vice, such as you would not bear to be told of! I say not this as if he were answerable
for his birth and early vice, but that, being such, this is not his place. He could not help
it, nor I, that we were born and nurtured where we were; that the sight of blood and the smell
of it, either of men or beasts, was never out of our eyes and nostrils, during all our boyhood
and youth; that to him, and me, the sweetest pleasure of our young life was, when the games
came on, and the beasts were let loose upon one another, and,--O the hardening of that life!--when,
specially, there were prisoners or captives, on which to glut their raging hunger! Those were
the days and hours marked whitest in our calendar. And, whitest of all, were the days of the
Decian persecution, when the blood of thrice cursed Christians, as I was taught to name them,
flowed like water. Every day then Varus and I had our sport; working up the beasts, by our
torments, to an unnatural height of madness ere they were let loose, and then rushing to the
gratings, as the doors were thrown open, to see the fury with which they would spring upon
their defenceless victims too, and tear them piecemeal. The Romans required such servants--and
we were they. They require them now, and you may find any number of such about the theatres.
But if there must be such there, why should they be taken thence and put upon the judgment-seat?
save, for the reason, that they may have been thoroughly purged, as it were, by fire--which
Varus has not been. What with him was necessary and forced when young, is now chosen and voluntary.
Vice is now his by election. Now, I ask, why has the life of Varus been such? and why, being
such, is he here? Because you are so! Yes, because you are all like him! It is you, Roman citizens,
who rear the theatres, the circuses, and the thousand temples of vice, which crowd the streets
of Rome,--'

'No, no! it is the emperors.'

'But who make the emperors? You Romans of these times, are a race of cowards and slaves, and
it is therefore that tyrants rule over you. Were you freemen, with the souls of freemen in
you, do you think you would bear as you do--and love and glory in the yoke--this rule of such
creatures as Varus, and others whom it were not hard to name? I know what you are--for I have
been one of you. I have not been, nor am I now, hermit, as you may think, being a Christian.
A Christian is a man of the world--a man of action and of suffering--not of rest and sleep.
I have ever been abroad among men, both before I was a Christian and since; and I know what
you are. You are of the same stamp as Varus! nay, start not, nor threaten with your eyes,--I
fear you not. If you are not so, why, I say, is Varus there? You know that I speak the truth.
The people of Rome are corrupt as their rulers! How should it be much otherwise? You are fed
by the largesses of the Emperor, you have your two loaves a day and your pork, and you need
not and so do not work. You have no employment but idleness, and idleness is not so much a
vice itself as the prolific mother of all vices. When I was one of you, it was so; and so it
is now. My father's labor was nothing; he was kept by the state. The Emperor was not more a
man of pleasure than he, nor the princes, than I and Varus. Was that a school of virtue? When
I left the service of the amphitheatre I joined the Legions. In the army I had work, and I
had fighting, but my passions, in the early days of that service, raged like the sea; and during
all the reign of Valerian's son there was no bridle upon them;--for I served under the general
Carinus, and what Carinus was and is, most of you know. O the double horrors of those years!
I was older, and yet worse and worse. God! I marvel that thou didst not interpose and strike
me dead! But thy mercy spared me, and now the lowest, lowest hell shall not be mine.' Tears,
forced by these recollections, flowed down his cheeks, and for a time he was speechless.

'Such, Romans, was I once. What am I now? I am a changed man--through and through. There is
not a thought of my mind, nor a fibre of my body, what they were once. You may possibly think
the change has been for the worse, seeing me thus thrust forth from the tribunal of the prefect
with dishonor, when I was once a soldier and an officer under Aurelian. I would rather a thousand
times be what I am, a soldier of Jesus Christ. And I would that, by anything I could do, you,
any one of you, might be made to think so too; I would that Varus might, for I bear him no
ill will.

'But what am I now? I am so different a man from what I once was, that I can hardly believe
myself to be the same. The life which I once led, I would not lead again--no--not one day nor
hour of it, though you would depose Aurelian to day and crown me Cæsar to-morrow. I would no
more return to that life, than I would consent to lose my nature and take a swine's, and find
elysium where as a man I once did, in sinks and sties. I would not renounce for the wealth
of all the world, and its empire too, that belief in the faith of Christ, the head of the Christians,
which has wrought so within me.

'And what has made me so--would make you so--if you would but hearken to it. And would it not
be a good thing if the flood of vice, which pours all through the streets of Rome, were stayed?
Would it not be a happy thing, if the misery which dwells beneath these vaulted roofs and these
humbler ones equally, the misery which drunkenness and lust, the lust of money, and the love
of place, and every evil passion generates, were all wiped away, and we all lived together
observant of the rights of one another, helping one another; not oppressing; loving, not hating;
showing in our conduct as men, the virtues of little children? Would it not be happier if all
this vast population were bound together by some common ties of kindred; if all held all as
brethren; if the poor man felt himself to be the same as Aurelian himself, because he is a
man like him and weighs just as much as he in the scales of God, and that it is the vice in
the one or the other, and that only that sinks him lower? Would it not be better, if you all
could see in the presiding power of the universe, one great and good Being, who needs not to
be propitiated by costly sacrifices of oxen or bulls, nor by cruel ones of men,--but is always
kindly disposed towards you, and desires nothing so much as to see you living virtuously, and
is never grieved as he is to see you ruining your own peace,--not harming him--by your vices?
for you will bear witness with me that your vices are never a cause of happiness. Would it
not be better if you could behold such a God over you, in the place of those who are called
gods, and whom you worship, as I did once, because I feared to do otherwise, and yet sin on
never the less: who are your patterns not so much in virtue as in all imaginable vice?'

'Away with the wicked!'--'Away with the fellow!' cried several voices; but others predominated,
saying, 'Let him alone!'--'He speaks well! We will hear him!'--'We will defend him! go on, go on!'

'I have little or nothing more to say,' continued Macer. 'I will only ask you whether you must
not judge that to be a very powerful principle of some kind that drew me up out of that foul
pit into which I was fallen, and made me what I am now? Which of you now feels that he has
motive strong enough to work out such a deliverance for him? What help in this way do you receive
from your priests, if perchance you ever apply to them? What book of instructions concerning
the will of the gods have you, to which you can go at any time and all times? Only believe
as I do, Romans, and you will hate sin as I do. You cannot help it. Believe in the God that
I do, and in the revealer of his will, the teacher whom he sent into the world to save us from
our heathen errors and vices, and you will then be more than the Romans you once were. You
are now, and you know it, infinitely less. Then you will be what the old Romans were and more.
You will be as brave as they, and more just. You will be as generous and more gentle. You will
love your own country as well, but you will love others too. You will be more ready to offer
up your lives for your country, for it will be better worth dying for; every citizen will be
a brother; every ruler a brother; it will be like dying for your own little household. If you
would see Rome flourish, she must become more pure. She can stagger along not much longer under
this mountain weight of iniquity that presses her into the dust. She needs a new Hercules to
cleanse her foul chambers. Christ is he; and if you will invite him, he will come and sweep
away these abominations, so that imperial Rome shall smell fragrantly as a garden of spices.'

Loud exclamations of approval here interrupted Macer. The great proportion of those who were
present were now evidently with him, and interested in his communications.

'Tell us,' cried one, as soon as the noise subsided, 'how you became what you are? What is
to be done?'

'Yes,' cried many voices, 'tell us.'

'I will tell you gladly,' answered Macer. 'I first heard the word of truth from the lips of
Probus, a preacher of the Christians, whom you too may hear whenever you will, by seeking him
out on the days when the Christians worship. Probus was in early life a priest of the temple
of Jupiter, and if any man in Rome can place the two religions side by side, and make the differences
plain, it is he. Go to him such of you as can, and you will never repent it. But if you would
all learn the first step toward Christian truth, and all truth, it is this; lay aside your
prejudices, be willing to see, hear, and judge for yourselves. Take not rumor for truth. Do
not believe without evidence both for and against. You would not, without evidence and reason,
charge Aurelian with the death of Aurelia, though ten thousand tongues report it. Charge not
the Christians with worse things then, merely because the wicked and ill-disposed maliciously
invent them and spread them. If you would know the whole truth and doctrine of Christians;
if you would ascend to the fountain-head of all Christian wisdom, take to your homes our sacred
books and read them. Some of you at least can obtain them. Let one purchase, and then twenty
or fifty read. One thing before I cease. Believe not the wicked aspersions of the prefect.
He charges me as a brawler, a disturber of the peace and order of the city. Romans, believe
me, I am a lover of peace, but I am a lover of freedom too. Because I am a lover of peace,
and would promote it, do I labor to teach the doctrines of Christ, which are doctrines of peace
and love, both at home and abroad, in the city and throughout the world; and because I am the
friend of freedom, do I open my mouth at all times and in every place, wherever I can find
those who, like you, are ready to hear the words of salvation. When in Rome I can no longer
speak--no longer speak for the cause of what I deem truth, then will I no longer be a Roman.
Then will I that day renounce my name and my country. Thanks to Aurelian, he has never chained
up the tongue. I have fought and bled under him, and never was there a braver man, or who honored
courage more in others. I do not believe he will ever do so cowardly a thing as to restrain
the freedom of men's speech. Aurelian is some things, but he is not others. He is severe and
cruel, but not mean. Cut Aurelian in two, and throw the worser half away, and t'other is as
royal a man as ever the world saw.

'One thing more, good friends and citizens: If I am sometimes carried away by my passions to
do that which seems a disturbance of the common order, say that it is the soldier Macer that
does it, not his Christian zeal--his human passions, not his new-adopted faith. It is not at
once and perfectly that a man passes from one life to another; puts off one nature and takes
another. Much that belonged to Macer of the amphitheatre, and Macer the soldier, cleaves to
him now. But make not his religion amenable for that. You who would see the law of Christ written,
not only on a book but in the character and life of a living man, go read the Christian Probus.'

As he said these words he began to descend the steps of the temple; but many crowded round
him, assailing him, some with reproaches, and others with inquiries put by those who seemed
anxious to know the truth. The voices of his opponents were the most violent and prevailed,
and made me apprehensive that they would proceed to greater length than speech. But Macer stood
firm, nothing daunted by the uproar. One, who signalized himself by the loudness and fierceness
of his cries, exclaimed, 'that he was nothing else than an atheist like all the rest of the
Christians; they have no gods; they deny the gods of Rome, and they give us nothing in their
stead.'

'We deny the gods of Rome, I know,' replied Macer, 'and who would not, who had come to years
of discretion? who had so much as left his nurse's lap? A fouler brotherhood than they the
lords of Heaven, Rome does not contain. Am I to be called upon to worship a set of wretches
chargeable with all the crimes and vices to be found on earth? It is this accursed idolatry,
O Romans, that has sunk you so low in sin! They are your lewd, and drunken, and savage deities,
who have taught you all your refinement in wickedness; and never, till you renounce them, never
till you repent you of your iniquities--never till you turn and worship the true God will you
rise out of the black Tartarean slough in which you are lying. These two hundred years and
more has God called to you by his Son, and you have turned away your ears; you have hardened
your hearts; the prophets who have come to you in his name have you slain by the sword or hung
upon the accursed tree. Awake out of your slumbers! These are the last days. God will not forbear
forever. The days of vengeance will come; they are now at hand: I can hear the rushing of that
red right arm hot with wrath--'

'Away with him! away with him!' broke from an hundred voices!--'Down with the blasphemer!'--'Who
is he to speak thus of the gods of Rome?'--'Seize the impious Gallilean, and away with him
to the prefect'--These, and a thousand exclamations of the same kind, and more savage, were
heard on every side; and, at the same moment, their denial and counter-exclamations, from as
many more.

'He has spoken the truth!'--'He is a brave fellow!' 'He shall not be touched except we fall
first!'--came from a resolute band who encompassed the preacher, and seemed resolved to make
good their words by defending him against whatever assault might be made. Macer, himself a
host in such an affray, neither spoke nor moved, standing upright and still as a statue; but
any one might see the soldier in his kindling eye, and that a slight cause would bring him
upon the assailants with a fury that would deal out wounds and death. He had told them that
the old Legionary was not quite dead within him, and sometimes usurped the place of the Christian;
this they seemed to remember, and after showering upon him vituperation and abuse in every
form, one after another they withdrew and left him with those who had gathered immediately
around him. These too soon took their leave of him, and Macer, unimpeded and alone, turned
towards his home.

When I related to Probus afterwards what I had heard and witnessed, he said that I was fortunate
in hearing what was so much more sober and calm than that which usually fell from him; that
generally he devoted himself to an exposition of the absurdities of the heathen worship, and
the abominations of the mysteries, and the vices of the priesthood; and he rarely ended without
filling with rage a great proportion of those who heard him. Many a time had he been assaulted;
and hardly had escaped with his life. You will easily perceive, Fausta, how serious an injury
is inflicted upon us by rash and violent declaimers like Macer. There are others like him;
he is by no means alone, though he is far the most conspicuous. Together they help to kindle
the flame of active hostility, and infuse fresh bitterness into the Pagan heart. Should the
Emperor carry into effect the purposes now ascribed to him, these men will be sure victims,
and the first.

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon my return after hearing Macer, I found Livia seated with Julia, to whom she often comes
thus, and then together--I often accompanying--we visit Tibur. She had but just arrived. It
was easy to see that the light-heartedness, which so manifested itself always in the beaming
countenance and the elastic step, was gone; the usual signs of it at least were not visible.
Her whole expression was serious and anxious; and upon her face were the traces of recent grief.
For a long time, after the first salutations and inquiries were through, neither spoke. At
length Livia said,

'I am come now, Julia, to escape from what has become of late little other than a prison. The
Fabrician dungeons are not more gloomy than the gardens of Sallust are now. No more gaiety;
no feasting by day and carousal by night; the gardens never illuminated; no dancing nor music.
It is a new life for me: and then the only creatures to be seen, that hideous Fronto and the
smiling Varus; men very well in their place, but no inmates of palaces.'

'Well' said Julia; 'there is the greater reason why we should see more of each other and of
Zenobia. Aurelian is the same?'

'The same? There is the same form, and the same face, and the same voice; but the form is motionless,
save when at the Hippodrome,--the face black as Styx, and his voice rougher than the raven's.
That agreeable humor and sportiveness, which seemed native to him, though by reason of his
thousand cares not often seen, is now wholly gone. He is observant as ever of all the forms
of courtesy, and I am to him what I have ever been; but a dark cloud has settled over him and
all the house, and I would willingly escape if I could. And worse than all, is this of Aurelia!
Alas, poor girl!'

'And what, Livia, is the truth?' said Julia; 'the city is filled with rumors, but they are
so at variance one with another, no one knows which to believe, or whether none.'

'I hardly know myself,' replied Livia. 'All I know with certainty is, that I have lost my only
companion--or the only one I cared for--and that Aurelian merely says she has been sent to
the prisons at the Fabrician bridge. I cannot tell you of our parting. Aurelia was sure something
terrible was designed against her, from the sharpness and violence of her uncle's language,
and she left me as if she were never to see me again. But I would believe no such thing, and
so I told her, and tried to give to her some of the courage and cheerfulness which I pretended
to have myself: but it was to no purpose. She departed weeping as if her heart were broken.
I love her greatly, notwithstanding her usual air of melancholy and her preference of solitude,
and I have found in her, as you know, my best friend and companion. Yet I confess there is
that in her which I never understood, and do not now understand. I hope she will comply with
the wishes of Aurelian, and that I shall soon see her again. The difficulty is all owing to
this new religion. I wish, Julia, there were no such thing. It seems to me to do nothing but
sow discord and violence.'

'That, dear Livia,' said Julia, 'is not a very wise wish; especially seeing you know, as you
will yourself confess, so little about it.'

'But,' quickly added Livia, 'was it not better as it was at Palmyra? who heard then of these
bitter hostilities? who were there troubled about their worship? One hardly knew there was
such a thing as a Christian. When Paul was at the palace, it was still all the same only, if
anything, a little more agreeable. But here, no one at the gardens speaks of Christians but
with an assassin air that frightens one. There must surely be more evil in them than I ever
dreamed of.'

'The evil, Livia,' answered her sister, 'comes not from the Christians nor Christianity, but
from those who oppose them. There were always Christians in Palmyra, and, as you say, even
in the palace, yet there was always peace and good-will too. If Christianity were in itself
an element of discord and division, why were no such effects seen there? The truth is, Livia,
the division and discord are created, not by the new religion, but by those who resist it,
and will not suffer people to act and think as they please about it. Under Zenobia, all had
liberty to believe as they would. And there was under her the reign of universal peace and
good-will. Here, on the other hand, it has been the practice of the state to interfere, and
say what the citizens shall believe and whom they shall worship, and what and whom they shall
not. How should it be otherwise than that troubles should spring up, under legislation so absurd
and so wicked? Would it not be a certain way to introduce confusion, if the state--or Aurelian--should
prescribe our food and drink? or our dress? And if confusion did arise, and bitter opposition,
you could not justly say it was owing to the existence of certain kinds of food, or of clothes
which people fancied, but to their being interfered with. Let them alone, and they will please
themselves and be at peace.'

'Yes,' said Livia, 'that may be. But the common people are in no way fit judges in such things,
and it seems to me if either party must give way, it were better the people did. The government
has the power and they will use it.'

'In so indifferent a matter as food or dress,' rejoined the sister, 'if a government were so
foolish as to make prohibitory and whimsical laws, it were better to yield than contend. But
in an affair so different from that as one's religion, one could not act in the same way. I
may dress in one kind of stuff as well as another; it is quite a possible thing: but is it
not plainly impossible, if I think one kind of stuff is of an exquisite fineness and color,
for me to believe and say at the same time, that its texture is coarse and its hue dull? The
mind cannot believe according to any other laws than those of its own constitution. Is it not
then the height of wickedness to set out to make people believe and act one way in religion?
The history of the world has shown that, in spite of men's wickedness, there is nothing on
earth they value as they do their religion. They will die rather than change or renounce it.
Men are the same now. To require that any portion of the people shall renounce their religion
is to require them to part with that which they value most--more than life itself--and is it
not in effect pronouncing against them a sentence of destruction? Some indeed will relinquish
it rather than die; and some will play the hypocrite for a season, intending to return to a
profession of it in more peaceful times: but most, and the best, will die before they will
disown their faith.'

'Then if that is so,' said Livia, 'and I confess what you say cannot be denied, I would that
Aurelian could be prevailed upon to recede from a position which he appears to be taking. His
whole nature now seems to have been set on fire by this priest Fronto. Superstition has wholly
seized and possessed him. His belief is that Rome can never be secure and great till the enemies
of the gods, as well as of the state, shall perish; and pushed on by Fronto, so far as can
be gathered from their discourse, is now bent on their injury or destruction. I wish he could
be changed back again to what he was before this notion seized him. Piso, have you seen him?
Have you of late conversed with him?'

'Only, Livia, briefly; and on this topic only at intervals of other talk; for he avoids it,
at least with me. But from what we all know of Aurelian, it is not one's opinion nor another's
that can alter his will when once bent one way.'

'How little did I once deem,' said Livia, 'when I used to wish so for greatness and empire,
that they could be so darkened over. I thought that to be great was necessarily to be happy.
But I was but a child then.'

'How long since was that?' asked Julia, smiling.

'Ah! you would say I am little better than that now.'

'You are young yet, Livia, for much wisdom to have come; and you must not wonder if it come
slowly, for you are unfortunately placed to gain it. An idol on its pedestal can rarely have
but two thoughts--that it is an idol, and that it is to be worshipped. The entrance of all
other wisdom is quite shut out.'

'How pleasant a thing it is, Piso, to have an elder sister as wise as Julia! But come, will
you to Tibur? I must have Faustula, now I have lost Aurelia.'

'O no, Livia,' said Julia; 'take her not away from Zenobia. She can ill spare her.'

'But there is Vabalathus.'

'Yes, but he is now little there. He is moreover preparing for his voyage. Faustula is her all.'

'Ah, then it cannot be! Yes, it were very wrong. But, this being so, I see not then but I must
go to her, or come live with you. Only think of one's trying to escape from the crown of Rome?
I can hardly believe I am Livia; once never to be satisfied with power and greatness--now tired
of them! No, not that exactly--'

'You are tired, only, Livia, of some little attendant troubles; you like not that overhanging
cloud you just spoke of; but for the empire itself, you love that none the less. To believe
that, it is enough to see you.'

'I suppose you are right. Julia is always right, Piso.'

So our talk ran on; sometimes into graver and then into lighter themes--often stopping and
lingering long over you, and Calpurnius, and Gracchus. You wished to know more of Livia and
her thoughts, and I have given her to you in just the mood in which she happened to be.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wife of Macer has just been here, seeking from Julia both assistance and comfort. She implores
us to do what we may to calm and sober her husband.

'As the prospect of danger increases,' she said to Julia, 'he grows but the more impetuous
and ungovernable. He is abroad all the day and every day, preaching all over Rome, and brings
home nothing for the support of the family; and if it were not for the Emperor's bounty, we
should starve.'

'And does that support you?'

'O no, lady! it hardly gives us food enough to subsist upon. Then we have besides to pay for
our lodging and our clothes. But I should mind not at all our labor nor our poverty, did I
not hear from so many that my husband is so wild and violent in his preaching, and when he
disputes with the gentiles, as he will call them. I am sure it is a good cause to suffer in,
if one must suffer; but if our dear Macer would only work half the time, there would be no
occasion to suffer, which we should now were it not for Demetrius the jeweler--who lives hard
by, and who I am sure has been very kind to us--and our good Ælia.'

'You do not then,' I asked, 'blame your religion nor weary of it?'

'O, sir, surely not. It is our greatest comfort. We all look out with expectation of our greatest
pleasure, when Macer returns home, after his day's labors,--and labors they surely are, and
will destroy him, unless he is persuaded to leave them off. For when he is at home the children
all come round him, and he teaches them in his way what religion is. Sometimes it is a long
story he gives them of his life, when he was a little boy and knew nothing about Christ, and
what wicked things he did, and sometimes about his serving as a soldier under the Emperor.
But he never ends without showing them what Christ's religion tells them to think of such ways
of life. And then, sir, before we go to bed he reads to us from the gospels--which he bought
when he was in the army, and was richer than he is now--and prays for us all, for the city,
and the Emperor, and the gentiles. So that we want almost nothing, as I may say, to make us
quite contented and happy.'

'Have you ever been disturbed in your dwelling on Macer's account?'

'O yes, sir, and we are always fearing it. This is our great trouble. Once the house was attacked
by the people of the street, and almost torn down--and we escaped, I and the children, through
a back way into the shop of the good Demetrius. There we were safe; and while we were gone
our little cabin was entered, and everything in it broken in pieces. Macer was not at home,
or I think he would have been killed.

'Did you apply to the prefect?'

'No, sir, I do not believe there would be much use in that: they say he hates the Christians so.'

'But he is bound to preserve order in the city.'

'Yes, sir; but for a great man like him it's easy to see only one way, and to move so slowly
that it does no good. That is what our people say of him. When the Christians are in trouble
he never comes, if he comes at all, till it is too late to do them any service. The best way
for us is, I think, to live quietly, and not needlessly provoke the gentiles, nor believe that
we can make Christians of them all in a day. That is my husband's dream. He thinks that he
must deliver his message to people, whether they will or not, and it almost seems as if the
more hostile they were, the more he made it his duty to preach to them, which certainly was
not the way in which Christ did, as he reads his history to us. It was just the other way.
It almost makes me believe that some demon has entered into him, he is so different from what
he was, and abroad from what he is at home. Do you think that likely, sir? I have been at times
inclined to apply to Felix to see if he could not exorcise him.'

'No, I do not think so certainly; but many may. I believe he errs in his notion of the way
in which to do good; but under some circumstances it is so hard to tell which the best way
is, that we must judge charitably of one another. Some would say that Macer is right; others
that the course of Probus is wisest; and others, that of Felix. We must do as we think right,
and leave the issue to God.'

'But you will come and see us? We dwell near the ruins, and behind the shop of Demetrius. Every
body knows Demetrius.'

I assured her I would go.

I almost wish, Fausta, that Julia was with you. All classes seem alike exposed to danger. But
I suppose it would be in vain to propose such a step to her, especially after what she said
to Isaac. You now, after your storm, live at length in calm: not exactly in sunshine; for you
would say the sun never can seem to shine that falls upon the ruins of Palmyra. But calm and
peace you certainly have, and they are much. I wish Julia could enjoy them with you. For here,
every hour, so it now seems to me, the prospect darkens, and it will be enough for one of us
to remain to encounter the evil, whatever it may be, and defend the faith we have espoused.
This is an office more appropriate to man than to woman; though emergencies may arise, as they
have, when woman herself must forget her tenderness and put on soldiers' panoply; and when
it has come, never has she been found wanting. Her promptness to believe that which is good
and pure, has been equalled by her fortitude and patience in suffering for it.

You will soon see Vabalathus. He will visit you before he enters upon his great office. By
him I shall write to you soon again. Farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

AURELIAN;

ROME IN THE THIRD CENTURY

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER VIII.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

Marcus and Lucilia are inconsolable. Their grief, I fear, will be lasting as it is violent.
They have no resource but to plunge into affairs and drive away memory by some active and engrossing
occupation. Yet they cannot always live abroad; they must at times return to themselves and
join the company of their own thoughts. And then, memory is not to be put off; at such moments
this faculty seems to constitute the mind more than any other. It becomes the mind itself.
The past rises up in spite of ourselves, and overshadows the present. Whether its scenes have
been prosperous or afflictive, but especially if they have been shameful, do they present themselves
with all the vividness of the objects before us and the passing hour, and infinitely increase
our pains. We in vain attempt to escape. We are prisoners in the hands of a giant. To forget
is not in our power. The will is impotent. The effort to forget is often but an effort to remember.
Fast as we fly, so fast the enemy of our peace pursues. Memory is a companion who never leaves
us--or never leaves us long. It is the true Nemesis. Tartarean regions have no worse woes,
nor the Hell of Christians, than memory inflicts upon those who have done evil. My friends
struggle in vain. They have not done evil indeed, but they have suffered it. The sorest calamity
that afflicts mortals has overtaken them; their choicest jewel has been torn from them; and
they can no more drown the memory of their loss than they can take that faculty itself and
tear it from their souls. Comfort cannot come from that quarter. It can come only from being
re-possessed of that which has been lost hereafter, and from enjoying the hope of that felicity
now. See how Marcus writes. After much else, he says,

'I miss you, Piso, and the conversations which we had together. I know not how it is, but your
presence acted as a restraint upon my hot and impatient temper. Since your departure I have
been little less than mad, and so far from being of service to Lucilia, she has been compelled
to moderate her own grief in the hope to assuage mine. I have done nothing but rave, and curse
my evil fortune. And can anything else be looked for? How should a man be otherwise than exasperated
when the very thing he loves best in the wide universe is, without a moment's warning, snatched
away from him? A man falls into a passion if his seal is stolen, or his rings, or his jewels,
if his dwelling burns down, or his slaves run away or die by some pestilence. And why should
he not much more when the providence of the gods, or the same power whatever it may be that
gave as a child, tears it from us again; and just then when we have so grown into it that it
is like hewing us in two? I can believe in nothing but capricious chance. We live by chance,
and so we die. Such events are otherwise inexplicable. For what reason can by the most ingenious
be assigned for giving life for a few years to a being like Gallus, and who then, before he
is more than just past the threshold of life, before a single power of his nature has put itself
forth, but at the moment when he is bound to his parents by ties of love which never afterwards
would be stronger--is struck dead? We can give no account of it. It is irreconcilable with
the hypothesis of an intelligent and good Providence. It has all the features of chance upon
it. A god could not have done it unless he had been the god of Tartarus. Dark Pluto might,
or the avenging Furies, were they supreme. But away with all such dreams! The slaves who were
his proper attendants, have been scourged and crucified. That at first gave me some relief;
but already I repent it. So it is with me; I rush suddenly upon what at the moment I think
right, and then as suddenly think and feel that I have done wrong, and so suffer. I see and
experience nothing but suffering, whichever way I turn. Truly we are riddles. Piso, you cannot
conceive of my loss. It was our only child--and the only one we shall ever know. I wish that
I believed in the gods that I might curse them.'

And much more in the same frantic way. Time will blunt his grief; but it will bring him I fear
no other or better comfort. He hopes for oblivion of his loss; but that can never be. He may
cease to grieve as he grieves now; but he can never cease to remember. I trust to see him again
ere long, and turn his thoughts into a better channel.

       *       *       *       *       *

I did not forget to keep my promise to the wife of Macer. In truth I had long regarded it as
essential to our safety almost, certainly to our success, that this man, and others of the
same character, should be restrained in some way in their course of mistaken zeal; and had
long intended to use what influence to that end I might possess. Probus had promised to accompany
me, and do what in him lay, to rescue religion from this peril at the hands of one of her best
friends. He joined me toward the evening of the same day on which I had seen the wife of Macer,
and we took our way toward his dwelling.

It was already past the hour of twilight when we reached the part of the city where Macer dwells,
and entered the ruins among which his cabin stands. These ruins are those of extensive and
magnificent baths destroyed a long time ago, and to this day remaining as the flames left them.
At the rear of them, far from the street and concealed from it by arches and columns and fragments
of wall, we were directed by the rays of a lamp streaming from a window, to the place we sought.
We wound our way among these fallen or still standing masses of stone, which frequently hid
from us the object of our search, till, as we found ourselves near the spot, we were arrested
by the sound of a single voice uttering itself with vehemence and yet solemnity. We paused,
but could not distinguish the words used; but the same conviction possessed us as to its cause.
It was Macer at prayer. We moved nearer, so that, without disturbing the family, we might still
make ourselves of the number of hearers. His voice, loud and shrill, echoed among the ruins
and conveyed to us, though at some distance, every word that he uttered. But for the noise
of carriages and passengers it would have penetrated even to the streets. The words we caught
were such as these--

--'If they hear thee not, O Lord, nor reverence thy messengers, but deny thee and turn upon
those whom thou sendest the lip of scorn and the eye of pride, and will none of their teachings,
and so do despite to the spirit of thy grace, and crucify the Lord afresh, then do thou, O
Lord, come upon them as once upon the cities of the plain in the times of thine anger. Let
fire from Heaven consume them. Let the earth yawn and swallow them up. Tear up the foundations
of this modern Babylon; level to the earth her proud walls; and let her stand for a reproach,
and a hissing, and a scorn; through all generations; so that men shall say as they pass by,
lo! the fate of them that held to their idols rather than serve the living God; their proud
palaces are now dwellings of dragons, and over her ruins the trees of the forest are now spreading
their branches. But yet, O Lord, may this never be; but may a way of escape be made for them
through thy mercy. And to this end may we thy servants, to whom thou hast given the sword of
the spirit, gird it upon our sides, lift up our voices and spare not, day and night, morning
and evening, in the public place, and at the corners of the streets; in all places, and in
every presence, proclaiming the good news of salvation. Let not cowardice seal our lips. Whether
before gentile or jew, emperor or slave, may we speak as becomes the Lord's anointed. Warm
the hearts of the cold and dead; put fire into them; fire from thine own altar. The world,
O Lord, and its honors and vanities, seduce thine own servants from thee. They are afraid,
they are cold, they are dead, and the enemy lifts himself up and triumphs. For this we would
mourn and lament. Give us, O Lord, the courage and the zeal of thine early apostles and teachers
so that no fear of tortures and death may make us traitors to Christ and thee.'

It was a long time that he went on in this strain, inveighing, with heat and violence, against
all who withdrew their hand from the work, or abated their zeal. When he had ceased, and we
stood waiting to judge whether the service were wholly ended, the voices of the whole family
apparently, were joined together in a hymn of praise--Macer's now more gentle and subdued,
as if to hear himself the tones of the children and of his wife who accompanied him. The burden
of the hymn was also a prayer for a spirit of fidelity and a temper of patience, in the cause
of truth and Christ. It was worship in the highest sense, and none within the dwelling could
have joined more heartily than we did who stood without.

When it was ended, and with it evidently the evening service, we approached, and knocked for
admittance. Macer appeared holding a light above his head, and perceiving who his guests were,
gave us cordial welcome, at the same time showing us into his small apartment and placing stools
for our accommodation. The room in which we were was small and vaulted, and built of stone
in the most solid manner. I saw at once that it was one of the smaller rooms of the ancient
bath, which had escaped entire destruction and now served as a comfortable habitation. A door
on the inner side appeared to connect it with a number of similar apartments. A table in the
centre and a few stools, a shelf on which were arranged the few articles which they possessed
both for cooking and eating their food, constituted the furniture of the room. In the room
next beyond I could see pallets of straw laid upon the floor, which served for beds. Macer,
his wife, and six children, composed the family then present; the two elder sons being yet
absent at their work, in the shop of Demetrius. The mother held at her breast an infant of
a year or more; one of three years sprang again upon his father's lap, as he resumed his seat
after our entrance, whence he had apparently been just dislodged; the rest, sitting in obscure
parts of the room, were at first scarcely visible. The wife of Macer expressed heartily her
pleasure at seeing us, and said even more by her flushed and animated countenance than by her
words. The severe countenance of Macer himself relaxed and gave signs of satisfaction.

'I owe you, Piso,' he said, 'many thanks for mercies shown to my wife and my little ones here,
and I am glad to see you among us. We are far apart enough as the world measures such things,
but in Christ we are one. At such times as these, when the Prince of Darkness rules, we ought
if ever to draw toward each other, that so we may make better our common defence. I greet you
as a brother--I trust to love you as one.'

I told him that nothing should be wanting on my part toward a free and friendly intercourse;
that from all I had heard of him I had conceived a high regard for him, and owed him more thanks
for what he had done in behalf of our religion, than he could me for any services I had rendered
him.

'Me?' said he, and his head fell upon his bosom. 'What have I done for Christ to deserve the
thanks of any? I have preached and I have prayed; I have opposed heresies and errors; I have
wrestled with the enemies and corrupters of our faith within our own body and without; but
the fruit seems nothing. The gentile is still omnipotent--heresy and error still abound.'

'Yes, Macer,' I replied, 'that is certainly so, and may be so for many years to come, but still
we are gaining. He who can remember twenty years can count a great increase. After the testimony
borne by the martyrs of the Decian persecution to their faith, and all the proof they gave
of sincere attachment to the doctrine of Christ, crowds have entered the church, an hundred
for every one whose blood then flowed.'

'And now,' said Macer, his eye kindling with its wild fires, 'the church is dead! The truest
prayer that the Christian can now offer is, that it would please God to try us again as it
were by fire! We slumber, Piso! The Christians are not now the Nazarites they were in the first
age of the church. Divisions have crept in; tares have been sown with the wheat, and have come
up, and are choking the true plants of God. I know not but that the signs of terror which are
scaring the heavens ought rather to be hailed as tokens of love. Better a thousand perish on
the rack or by the axe, than that the church itself faint away and die.'

'It will not do,' said Probus, 'always to depend upon such remedies of our sloth and heresies.
Surely it were better to prosper in some other and happier way. All I think we can say of persecution,
and of the oppositions of our enemies, is this, that if it be in the providence of God that
they cannot be avoided, we have cause to bless him that their issue is good rather than evil;
that they serve as tests by which the genuine is tried and proved; that they give the best
and highest testimony to the world that man can give, of his sincerity; that they serve to
bind together into one compact and invincible phalanx the disciples of our common master, however
in many things they may divide and separate. But, were it not better, if we could attain an
equal good without the suffering?'

'I believe that to be impossible,' said Macer. 'Since Jesus began his ministry, persecution
has been the rod that has been laid upon the church without sparing, and the fruit has been
abundant. Without it, like these foolish children, we might run riot in all iniquity.'

'I do not say that the rod has not been needed,' answered Probus, 'nor that good has not ensued;
but only, that it would be better, wiser, and happier, to reach the same good without the rod;
just as it is better when your children, without chastisement, fulfil your wishes and perform
their tasks. We hope and trust that our children will grow up to such virtue, that they will
no longer need the discipline of suffering to make them better. Ought we not to look and pray
for a period to arrive in the history of the church, when men shall no longer need to be lashed
and driven, but shall of themselves discern what is best and cleave to it?'

'That might indeed be better,' replied the other; 'but the time is not come for it yet. The
church I say is corrupt, and it cries out for another purging. Christians are already lording
it over one another. The bishop of Rome sets himself up, as a lord, over subjects. A Roman
Cæsar walks it not more proudly. What with his robes of state, and his seat of gold, and his
golden rod, and his altar set out with vessels of gold and silver, and his long train of menials
and subordinates, poor simple Macer, who learned of Christ, as he hopes, is at a loss to discern
the follower of the lowly Jesus, but takes Felix, the Christian servant, for some Fronto of
a Heathen temple! Were the power mine, as the will is, never would I stay for Aurelian, but
my own arm should sweep from the places they pollute the worst enemies of the Saviour. Did
Jesus die that Felix might flaunt his peacock's feathers in the face of Rome?'

'We cannot hope, Macer,' answered Probus, 'to grow up to perfection at once. I see and bewail
the errors at which you point as well as you. But if, to remove them, we bring down the heavy
arm of Rome upon our heads--the remedy may prove worse than the disease.'

'No. That could not be! Let those who with open eyes abuse the gifts of God, perish! If this
faith cannot be maintained undefiled by Heathen additions, let it perish!'

'But God dealeth not so with us,' continued Probus; 'he beareth long and patiently. We are
not destroyed because in the first years of our life we do not rise to all virtue, but are
spared to fourscore. Ought we not to manifest a like patience and forbearance? By waiting patiently
we shall see our faults, and one by one correct them. There is still some reason and discernment
left among us. We are not all fools and blind. And the faults which we correct ourselves, by
our own action, and the conviction of our own minds acting freely and voluntarily, will be
more truly corrected, than if we are but frightened away from them for a time by the terrors
of the Roman sword. I think, Macer, and so thinks Piso, that, far from seeking to inflame the
common mind, and so drawing upon us the evils which are now with reason apprehended, we should
rather aim to ward them off.'

'Never!' cried Macer with utmost indignation. 'Shall the soldier of the cross shrink--'

'No, Macer, he need not shrink. Let him stand armed in panoply complete; prompt to serve, willing
to die; but let him not wantonly provoke an enemy who may not only destroy him, that were a
little thing, but, in the fury of the onset, thousands with him, and, perhaps, with them the
very faith for which they die! The Christian is not guiltless who--though it be in the cause
of Christ--rushes upon unnecessary death. You, Macer, are not only a Christian and soldier
of Jesus Christ, but a man, who, having received life from the Creator, have no right wantonly
to throw it away. He who seeks martyrdom is no martyr. Selfish passions have then mingled their
impure current with that of love to God, and the sacrifice is not without spot and blemish.
Jesus did not so; nor his first followers. When the Lord was persecuted in one city, he staid
not there to inflame it more and more; he fled to another. Paul and Peter and Barnabas stood
ever for their rights; they suffered not wrong willingly. When the ark of truth is intrusted
to few hands, they must bear it forward boldly, but with care, else are they at a blow cut
off, and the ark with its precious burden borne away and lost--or miracles alone can rescue
it. But when the time comes that no prudence or care will avail, then they may not refuse the
issue, but must show that life is nothing in comparison of truth and God.'

'Probus,' said Macer, 'I like not your timid counsels. 'Tis not by such that Christ's cause
shall ever advance, or that period ever come when he, the long-looked and waited for, shall
descend, and the millenial reign begin. Life is nothing to me and less than nothing. I hold
it as dirt and dross. And if by throwing it away I can add such a commentary to my preaching
as shall strike a single Pagan heart, I shall not have died in vain; and if the blood that
shall flow from these veins, may serve but as a purge, to carry off the foul humors that now
fester and rage in the body of the church, thrice happy shall I be to see it flow. And for
these--let them be as the women and children of other times, and hold not back when their master
calls. Arria! do thou set before thee St. Blandina, and if the Lord let thee be as her, thou
wilt have cause to bless his name.'

'Never, Macer, would I shrink from any trial to which the Lord in his wisdom might call me--that
you know. But has not Probus uttered a truth, when he says, that we are not innocent, and never
glorious, when we seek death? that he who seeks martyrdom is no martyr? Listen, Macer, to the
wisdom of Probus and the noble Piso. Did you not promise that you would patiently hear them?'

'Woman--I have heard them--their words are naught, stark naught, or worse. Where would have
been the blessed gospel at this hour, had it been committed to such counsels? Even under Nero
would it have died for want of those who were willing to die for it. I am a soldier of the
cross, whose very vocation it is to fight and die. And if I may but die, blessed Jesus, for
thee! then may I hope that thou wilt deal mercifully with thy servant at thy judgment-seat.
I hear thy voice ever sounding in my ear, reproving me for my cowardice. Have patience with
me, and I will give thee all. And if labor, and torture, and death, would but cancel sin!--But
alas! even they may not suffice.'

'Then, dear father,' said one of his daughters who had drawn near and seated herself at his
knee, while the others had gathered round, 'then will we add ourselves to the sacrifice.'

'Would you?' said Macer--in an absent, musing way--as if some other thought were occupying him.

Thinking that his love of his children, evidently a very strong affection in him, might be
made to act as a restraint, I said, 'that I feared he greatly exposed his little family to
unnecessary danger. Already had his dwelling been once assailed, and the people were now ripe
for any violence. This group of little ones can ill encounter a rude and furious mob.'

'They can die, can they not?' said Macer. 'Is that difficult, or impossible? If the Lord need
them, they are his. I can ask no happier lot for them than that by death they may glorify God.
And what is it to die so, more than in another way? Let them die in their beds, and whom do
they benefit? They die then to themselves, and no one is the gainer; let them die by the sword
of Varus, or by the stones of the populace, and then they become themselves stones in the foundation
of that temple of God, of which Jesus is the chief corner-stone, and they are glorious forever.
What say you, Cicer, will you die for Christ?'

The little fellow hid his head in his father's bosom at this sudden appeal, but soon drew it
out and said,

'I would rather die for you, father.'

'Ah!' said Macer, 'how am I punished in my children! Cicer, would you not die for Christ?'

'I would die for him if you wish it.'

'Macer,' said Probus, 'do you not see how God has bound you and this family into one? and he
surely requires you not to separate yourself, their natural protector, from them forever; still
less, to involve them in all the sufferings which, taking the course you do, may come upon
them at any hour.'

'Probus! their death would give me more pleasure than their life, dying for Christ. I love
them now and here, fondly as ever parent loved his children,--but what is now, and here? Nothing.
The suffering of an hour or of a moment joins us together again, where suffering shall be no
more, and death no more. To-morrow! yes, to-morrow! would I that the wrath of these idol-worshippers
might be turned against us. Rome must be roused; she sleeps the sleep of death; and the church
sleeps it too; both need that they who are for the Lord should stand forth, and, not waiting
to be attacked, themselves assail the enemy, who need but to be assailed with the zeal and
courage of men, who were once to be found in the church, to be driven at all points.'

'But, father,' said the daughter who had spoken before, 'other Christians think not so. They
believe for the most part, as I hear, with Probus and Piso, that on no account should we provoke
the gentiles, or give them cause of complaint against us; they think that to do so would greatly
harm us; that our duty is to go on the even tenor of our way, worshipping God after our own
doctrine, and in our own manner, and claiming and exercising all our rights as citizens, but
abstaining from every act that might rouse their anger, or needlessly irritate them--irritated,
necessarily, almost beyond bearing, by the wide and increasing prosperity of our faith, and
the daily falling away of the temple worshippers. Would it be right, dearest father, to do
that which others approved not, and the effect of which might be, not only to draw down evil
upon your and our heads, but upon thousands of others? We cannot separate ourselves from our
brethren; if one suffer all will suffer--'

'Ælia, my daughter, there is a judge within the breast, whom I am bound to obey rather than
any other counsellor, either man or woman. I cannot believe, because another believes, a certain
truth. Neither can I act in a certain way because others hold it their duty to act so. I must
obey the inward voice, and no other. If I abandon this, I am lost--I am on the desert without
sun, moon or stars to guide me. All the powers of the earth could not bribe nor drag me from
that which I hold to be the true order of conduct for me; shown by the finger of God to be such.'

'But, father,' continued the daughter, pursuing her object, 'are we not too lately entered
among the Christians to take upon us a course which they condemn? It is but yesterday that
we were among the enemies of this faith. Are we to-day to assume the part of leaders? Would
not modesty teach us a different lesson?'

'Modesty has nothing to do with truth,' said Macer. 'He who is wholly a Christian to-day, is
all that he can be to-morrow, or next year. I am as old in faith and zeal as Piso, Probus,
or Felix. No one can believe more, or more heartily, by believing longer. Nay, it is they who
are newly saved who are most sensible to the blessing. Custom in religion as in other things
dulls the soul. Were I a Christian much longer before God called me to serve him by suffering
or death, I fear I should be then spiritually dead, and so worse than before I believed. Let
it be to-morrow, O Lord, that I shall glorify thee!'

It was plain that little impression was to be made upon the mind of Macer. But we ceased not
to urge him farther, his wife and elder children uniting with us in importunate entreaty and
expostulation. But all in vain. In his stern and honest enthusiasm he believed all prudence,
cowardice; all calculation, worldliness; all moderation and temperance, treason to the church
and Christ. Yet none of the natural current of the affections seemed to be dried up or poisoned.
No one could be more bound to his wife and children; and, toward us, though in our talk we
spared him not, he ever maintained the same frank and open manner--yielding never an inch of
ground, and uttering himself with an earnestness and fury such as I never saw in another; but,
soon as he had ceased speaking, subsiding into a gentleness that seemed almost that of a woman,
and playfully sporting with the little boy that he held on his knee.

Soon as our conversation was ended, Macer, turning to his wife, exclaimed,

'But what hinders that we should set before our visiters such hospitality as our poor house
affords? Arria, have we not such as may well enough entertain Christians?'

Ælia, at a word from her mother, and accompanied by her sister, immediately busied themselves
in the simple rites of hospitality, and soon covered the table which stood in the centre of
the room with bread, lettuces, figs, and a flask of wine. While they were thus engaged, I could
not but observe the difference in appearance of the two elder sisters, who, with equal alacrity,
were setting out the provisions for our repast. One was clad like the others of the family
in the garments common to the poor. The other--she who had spoken--was arrayed, not richly,
but almost so, or, I should rather say, fancifully, and with studied regard to effect. While
I was wondering at this, and seeking in my own mind for its explanation, I was interrupted
in my thoughts by Macer.

'Thanks to Aurelian, Piso, we are able, though poor, as you see, and dwelling in these almost
subterranean vaults, to live above the fear of absolute want. But especially are we indebted
for many of our comforts, and for such luxury as this flask of Massican, to my partly gentile
daughter, Ælia, whom you behold moving among us, as if by her attire she were not of us--but
Cicer's heart is not truer--and who will, despite her faith and her father's bidding, dance
and sing for the merriment of these idolaters. Never before, I believe, had Christian preacher
a dancing-girl for a daughter.'

A deep blush passed over the features of the daughter as she answered,

'But, father, you know that in my judgment--and whose in this matter is so to be trusted?--I
am in no way injured by my art, and it adds somewhat to the common stock. I see not why I need
be any the less a Christian, because I dance; especially, as with me, it is but one of the
forms of labor. Were it forbidden by our faith, or could it be shown to be to me an evil, I
would cease. But most sure I am it is neither. Let me now appeal to Probus for my justification,
and to Piso.'

'Doubtless,' said Probus, 'those Christians are right who abstain from the theatres, the amphitheatres,
the circuses, and from the places of public amusement where sights and sounds meet ear and
eye such as the pure should never hear or see, and such as none can hear or see and maintain
their purity. The soul is damaged in spite of herself. But for these arts of music and dancing,
practised for the harmless entertainment of those who feast their friends,--where alone I warrant
Ælia is found--who can doubt that she is right? Were not the reception of the religion of Christ
compatible with indulgence in innocent amusement, or the practice of harmless arts such as
these, few, I fear, would receive it. Christianity condemns many things, which, by Pagans,
are held to be allowable, but not everything.'

'Willingly would I abandon my art,' said Ælia,' did I perceive it to injure the soul; or could
I in other ways buy bread for our household. So dearly do I prize this new-found faith, that
for its sake, were it to be retained in no other way, would I relinquish it, and sink into
the deeper poverty that would then be ours, or drudge at some humbler toil.'

'Do it, do it, Ælia,' said Macer; 'and the Lord will love thee all the more. 'Tis the only
spot on thy white and glistering robes. The Lord loves not more than I to see thee wheeling
and waving to and fro, to supply mirth to those, who, mayhap, would crucify thee the next hour,
as others crucified thy master.'

Tears fell from the eyes of the fair girl as she answered,

'Father, it shall be as you wish. Not willingly, but by constraint, have I labored as I have.
God will not forsake us, and will, I cannot doubt, open some new path of labor for me--if indeed
the disorders of the times do not first scatter or destroy us.'

I here said to Macer and his daughter, that there need be no hesitation about abandoning the
employment in question, from any doubt concerning a future occupation; if Ælia would but accompany
her mother, when next she went to visit Julia, I could assure her of obtaining there all she
could desire.

At this the little boy, whom Macer held, clapped his hands and cried out with joy--'Ah! then
will Ælia be always with us and go away no more;' and flying to his sister was caught by her
in her arms.

The joy diffused throughout the little circle at this news was great. All were glad that Ælia
was to dance and sing no more, for all wished her at home, and her profession had kept her
absent almost every day. The table was now spread, and we sat down to the frugal repast, Macer
first offering a prayer to God.

'It is singular,' said he, when we were seated,'that in my Heathen estate, I ever asked the
blessing of the gods before I ate. Nay, and notwithstanding the abominations of my life, was
often within the temples a worshipper. I verily believe there are many Christians who pray
less than the Heathen, and less after they become Christian than before.'

'I can readily believe it,' said Probus. 'False religions multiply outward acts; and for the
reason, that they make religion to consist in them. A true faith, which places religion in
the inward disposition, not in services, will diminish them. More prayers were said, and more
rites performed in the temple of Jupiter, where my father was priest, than the Christian church,
where I serve, ever witnesses. But what then? With the Pagan worshipper religion ended when
the service closed, and he turned from the temple to the world. With the Christian, the highest
service only then commences when he leaves the church. Religion, with him, is virtuous action,
more than it is meditation or prayer. He prays without ceasing, not by uttering without cessation
the language of prayer, but by living holily. Every act of every hour, which is done conscientiously
is a prayer, as well as the words we speak, and is more pleasing to God, for the reason that
practice is better than mere profession--doing better than saying.'

'That is just, Probus,' replied Macer. 'When I prayed as an idolater, it was because I believed
that the gods required such outward acknowledgment, and that some evil or other might befall
me through their vengeance, if I did not. But when I had ended that duty I had ended my religion,
and my vices went on none the less prosperously. Often indeed my prayers were for special favors,--wealth,
or success in some affair--and when, after wearying myself with repeating them a thousand times,
the favors were not bestowed, how have I left the temple in a rage, cursing the gods I had
just been worshipping, and swearing never more to propitiate them by prayer or sacrifice. Sometimes
I repented of such violence, but oftener kept my word and tried some other god. You, Probus,
were, I may believe, of a more even temper?'

'Yes, perhaps so. My father was one of the most patient and gentle of men, and religious after
the manner of our remoter ancestors of the days of the republic. He was my instructor; and
from him I learned truths which were sufficient for my happiness under ordinary circumstances.
I was a devout and constant worshipper of the gods. My every-day life may then have been as
pure as it has been since I have been a Christian; and my prayers as many or more. The instincts
of my nature, which carried up the soul toward some great and infinite being, which I could
not resist, kept me within the bounds of that prudent and virtuous life which I believed would
be most acceptable to them. But when a day of heavy and insupportable calamity came upon me,
and I was made to look after the foundations of what I had been believing, I found there were
none. I was like a ship tossed about by the storms, without rudder or pilot. I then knew not
whether there were gods or not; or if there were any, who, among the multiplicity worshipped
in Rome, the true ones were. In my grief, I railed at the heavens and their rulers, for not
revealing themselves to us in our darkness and weakness; and cursed them for their cruelty.
Soon after I became a Christian. The difference between my state then, and now, is this. I
believed then; but it was merely instinctive. I could give no reason to myself nor to others
for my faith. It was something and yet nothing. Now, I have somewhat to stand upon. I can prove
to myself, and to others, my religion, as well as other things. I have knowledge as well as
blind belief. It is good to believe in something, and in some sort, though one can give no
account of his faith; but it is better to believe in that which we know, as we know other things.
I have now, as a Christian, the same strength of belief in God, providence, and futurity, that
I have in any facts attested by history. Jesus has announced them or confirmed them, and they
are susceptible of proof. I differed from you, Macer, in this; that I cursed not the gods in
my passion, or caprice; I was for years and years their humble, and contented, and patient
worshipper. I rebelled not till I suffered cruel disappointment, and in my faith could find
no consolation or light. One real sorrow, by which the foundations of my earthly peace were
all broken up, revealed to me the nothingness of my so called religion. Into what a new world,
Macer, has our new faith introduced us! I am now happier than ever I was, even with my wife
and children around me.'

'Some of our neighbors,' said Auria, 'wonder what it is that makes us so light of heart, notwithstanding
our poverty and the dangers to which we are so often exposed. I tell them that they, who, like
us, believe in the providence of a God, who is always near us and within us, and in the long
reign with Christ as soon as death is past, have nothing to fear. That which they esteem the
greatest evil of all, is, to us, an absolute gain. Upon this they either silently wonder, or
laugh and deride. However, many too believe.'

'Probus, we are all ready to be offered up,' the enthusiast rejoined. 'God's mercy to me is
beyond all power of mine to describe, in that he has touched and converted the hearts of every
one under my roof. Now if to this mercy he will but add one more, that we may glorify him by
our death as well as in our life, the cup of his servant will be full and running over.'

Probus did not choose again to engage with his convert upon that theme, knowing him to be beyond
the reach of influence and control. We could not but marvel to see to what extent he had infused
his own enthusiasm into his family. His wife indeed and elder daughters would willingly see
him calmer and less violent when abroad, but like him, being by nature of warm temperament,
they are like him Christians warm and zealous beyond almost any whom I have seen. They are
as yet also so recently transferred from their Heathen to their Christian state, that their
sight is still dazzled, and they see not objects in their true shapes and proportions. In their
joy they seem to others, and perhaps often are, greatly extravagant in the expression of their
feelings and opinions.

When our temperate repast was ended, Macer again prayed, and we then separated. Our visit proved
wholly ineffectual as to the purpose we had in view, but by no means so when I consider the
acquaintance which it thus gave me with a family in the very humblest condition, who yet were
holding and equally prizing the same opinions, at which, after so much research and labor,
I had myself arrived. I perceived in this power of Christianity to adapt itself to minds so
different in their slate of previous preparation, and in their ability to examine and sift
a question which was offered to them; in the facility and quickness with which it seized both
upon the understanding and the affections; in the deep convictions which it produced of its
own truth and excellence, and the scorn and horror with which it filled the mind for its former
superstitions--I saw in this an element of strength, and of dominion, such as even I had hardly
conceived, and which assures me that this religion is destined to a universal empire. Not more
certainly do all men need it than they will have it. When in this manner, with everything against
it, in the habits, lives, and prejudices of men--with itself almost against itself in its strictness
and uncompromising morality--it nevertheless forces its way into minds of every variety of
character, and diffuses wherever it goes the same inward happiness;--its success under such
circumstances is at once an argument for its truth, and an assurance that it will pause in
its progress not till it shall have subdued the world to its dominion.

Julia was deeply interested in all that I told her of the family of Macer, and will make them
all her special charge. Ælia will I hope become in some capacity a member of our household.

I ought to tell you that we have often of late been at the Gardens, where we have seen both
Livia and Aurelian. Livia is the same, but the Emperor is changed. A gloomy horror seems to
sit upon him, which both indisposes him to converse as formerly, and others to converse with
him. Especially has he shown himself averse to discussion of any point that concerns the Christians,
at least with me. When I would willingly have drawn him that way, he has shrunk from it with
an expression of distaste, or with more expressive silence, or the dark language of his terrific
frown. For me however he has no terrors, and I have resolved to break through all the barriers
he chooses to set up around him, and learn if I can what his feelings and purposes precisely
are. One conversation may reveal them in such a way, as may make it sufficiently plain what
part he means to act, and what measure of truth there may be in the current rumors; in which,
for my own part, I cannot bring myself to place much reliance. I doubt even concerning the
death of Aurelia, whether, even if it has taken place, it is not to be traced to some cause
other than her religion.

       *       *       *       *       *

A day has passed. I have seen the Emperor, as I was resolved to do, and now I no longer doubt
what his designs are, nor that they are dark as they have been represented; yea, and darker,
even as night is darker than day.

Upon reaching the palace, I was told that the Emperor was exercising at the hippodrome, toward
which I then bent my steps. It lies at some distance from the palace, concealed from it by
intervening groves. Soon as I came in sight of it, I beheld Aurelian upon his favorite horse
running the course as if contending for a prize, plying, the while, the fierce animal he bestrode
with the lash, as if he were some laggard who needed rousing to his work. Swifter than the
wind he flew by me, how many times I know not, without noting apparently that any one was present
beside the attendant slaves; nor did he cease till the horse, spent and exhausted, no longer
obeyed the will of even the Emperor of the world. Many a noble charger has he in this manner
rode till he has fallen dead. So long used has this man been to the terrific game of war, and
the scenes and sights which that reveals, stirring to their depths all the direst passions
of our nature, that now, at home and at peace, life grows stale and flat, and needs the artificial
stimulants which violent and extreme modes of action can alone supply. The death of a horse
on the course, answers now for a legion slain in battle; an unruly, or disobedient, or idle
slave hewn in two, affords the relief which the execution of prisoners has been accustomed
to yield. Weary of inaction, he pants for the day to arrive when, having completed the designs
he has set on foot in the city, he shall again join the army, now accumulating in huge masses
in Thrace, and once more find himself in the East, on the way to new conquests and fresh slaughter.

As he threw himself from his horse, now breathing hard and scarcely supporting himself, the
foam rolling from him like snow, he saluted me in his usual manner.

'A fair and fortunate day to you, Piso! And what may be the news in the city? I have rode fast
and far, but have heard nothing. I come back empty as I went out, save the heat which I have
put into my veins. This horse is he I was seen upon from the walls of Palmyra by your and other
traitor eyes. But for first passing through the better part of my leg and then the saddle,
the arrow that hit me then had been the death of him. But death is not for him, nor he for
death; he and his rider are something alike, and will long be so, if auguries ever speak truth.
And if there be not truth in auguries, Piso, where is it to be found among mortals? These three
mornings have I rode him to see if in this manner he could be destroyed, but thou seest how
it issues; I should destroy myself before him. But what, I say, is the news? How does the lady
Julia? and the Queen?'

Replying first to these last inquiries, I then said that there was little news I believed in
the city. The only thing, perhaps, that could be treated as news, was the general uneasiness
of the Christians.

'Ah! They are uneasy? By the gods, not wholly without reason. Were it not for them I had now
been, not here chafing my horse and myself on a hippodrome, but tearing up instead the hard
sands of the Syrian deserts. They weigh upon me like a nightmare! They are a visible curse
of the gods upon the state--but, being seen, it can be removed. I reckon not you among this
tribe, Piso, when I speak of them. What purpose is imputed?'

'Rumor varies. No distinct purpose is named, but rather a general one of abridging some of
their liberties--suppressing their worship, and silencing their priests.'

'Goes it no further?'

'Not with many; for the people are still willing to believe that Aurelian will inflict no needless
suffering. They see you great in war, severe in the chastisement of the enemies of the state,
and just in the punishment inflicted upon domestic rebels; and they conceive that in regard
to this simple people you will not go beyond the rigor I have just named.'

'Truly they give me credit,' replied Aurelian, 'for what I scarcely deserve. But an Emperor
can never hear the truth. Piso! they will find themselves deceived. One or the other must fall--Helenism
or Christianity! I knew not, till my late return from the East, the ravages made by this modern
superstition, not only throughout Rome, but the world. In this direction I have for many years
been blind. I have had eyes only for the distant enemies of my country, and the glories of
the battle-field. But now, upon resting here a space in the heart of the empire, I find that
heart eaten out and gone; the religion of ancient Rome, which was its very life, decaying,
and almost dead, through the rank growth of this overshadowing poison-tree that has shot up
at its side. It must be cut up by the roots--the branches hewn away--the leaves stripped and
scattered to the winds--nay, the very least fibre that lurks below the surface with life in
it, must be wrenched out and consumed. We must do thus by the Christians and their faith, or
they will do so by us.'

'I am hardly willing,' I replied, 'to believe what I have heard; nor will I believe it. It
were an act, so mad and unwise, as well as so cruel, that I will not believe it though coming
from the lips of Aurelian!'

'It is true, Piso, as the light of yonder sun! But if thou wilt not believe, wait a day or
two and proof enough shall thou have--proof that shall cure thy infidelity in a river of Christian
blood.'

'Still, Aurelian,' I answered. 'I believe not: nor will, till that river shall run down before
my eyes red and thick as the Orontes!'

'How, Piso, is this? I thought you knew me!'

'In part I am sure I do. I know you neither to be a madman nor a fool, both which in one would
you be to attempt what you have now threatened.'

'Young Piso, you are bold!'

'I make no boast of courage,' I replied; 'I know that in familiar speech with Aurelian, I need
not fear him. Surely you would not converse on such a subject with a slave or a flatterer.
A Piso can be neither. I can speak, or I can be silent; but if I speak--'

'Say on, say on, in the name of the gods!'

'What I would say to Aurelian then is this, that slaughter as he may, the Christians cannot
be exterminated; that though he decimated, first Rome and then the empire, there would still
be left a seed that would spring up and bear its proper harvest. Nay, Aurelian, though you
halved the empire, you could not win your game. The Christians are more than you deem them.'

'Be it so,' replied the Emperor; 'nevertheless I will try. But they are not so many as you
rate them at, neither by a direct nor an indirect enumeration.'

'Let that pass, then,' I answered. 'Let them be a half, a quarter, a tenth part of what I believe
them to be, it will be the same; they cannot be exterminated. Soon as the work of death is
done, that of life will begin again, and the growth will be the more rank for the blood spilled
around. Outside of the tenth part, Aurelian, that now openly professes this new religion, there
lies another equal number of those who do not openly profess it, but do so either secretly,
or else view it with favor and with the desire to accept it. Your violence, inflicted upon
the open believers, reaches not them, for they are an invisible multitude; but no sooner has
it fallen and done its work of ruin, than this other multitude slowly reveals itself, and stands
forth heirs and professors of the persecuted faith, and ready, like those who went before them,
to live for it and die for it.'

'What you say may be so,' answered Aurelian; 'I had thought not of it. Nevertheless, I will try.'

'Moreover,' I continued, 'in every time of persecution, there are those--sincere believers,
but timid--who dare not meet the threatened horrors. These deny not their faith, but they shrink
from sight; they for a season disappear; their hearts worship as ever, but their tongues are
silent; and search as they may, your emissaries of blood cannot find them. But soon as the
storm is over-past, then do they come forth again, as insects from the leaves that sheltered
them from the storm, and fill again the forsaken churches.'

'Nevertheless I will try for them.'

'Then will you be, Aurelian, as one that sheds blood, because he will shed it--seeing that
the end at which you aim cannot in such way be reached. Confiscation, imprisonment, scourging,
fires, torture, and death, will all be in vain; and with no more prospect that by such oppression
Christianity can be annihilated, than there would be of rooting out poppies from your fields
when as you struck off the heads or tore up the old roots, the ripe seeds were scattered abroad
over the soil, a thousand for every parent stalk that fell. You will drench yourself in the
blood of the innocent, only that you may do it--while no effect shall follow.'

'Let it be so then; even so. Still I will not forbear. But this I know, Piso, that when a disaffection
has broken out in a legion, and I have caused the half thereof, or its tenth, to be drawn forth
and cut to pieces by the other part, the danger has disappeared. The physic has been bitter,
but it has cured the patient! I am a good surgeon; and well used to letting blood. I know the
wonders it works and shall try it now, not doubting to see some good effects. When poison is
in the veins, let out the blood, and the new that comes in is wholesome. Rome is poisoned!'

'Great Emperor,' I replied, 'you know nothing, allow me to say, whereof you affirm. You know
not the Christians, and how can you deem them poison to the state? A purer brotherhood never
has the world seen. I am but of late one among them, and it is but a few months since I thought
of them as you now do. But I knew nothing of them. Now I know them. And knowledge has placed
them before me in another light. If, Aurelian--'

'I know nothing of them, Piso, it is true; and I wish to know nothing--nothing more, than that
they are Christians! that they deny the good gods! that they aim at the overthrow of the religion
of the state--that religion under whose fostering care Rome has grown up to her giant size--that
they are fire-brands of discord and quarrel in Rome and throughout the world! Greater would
my name be, could I extirpate this accursed tribe than it would be for triumphing over both
the East and West, or though I gained the whole world.'

'Aurelian,' I replied, 'this is not the language I used to hear from your lips. Another spirit
possesses you and it is not hard to tell whence it comes.'

'You would say--from Fronto.'

'I would. There is the rank poison, that has turned the blood in the veins of one, whom justice
and wisdom once ruled, into its own accursed substance.'

'I and Rome, Piso,' said Aurelian, 'owe much to Fronto. I confess that his spirit now possesses
me. He has roused the latent piety into action and life, which I received with my mother's
milk, but which, the gods forgive me! carried away by ambition, had well nigh gone quite out
in my soul. My mother--dost thou know it?--was a priestess of Apollo, and never did god or
goddess so work by unseen influence to gain a mortal's heart, as did she to fill mine with
reverence of the deities of heaven--specially of the great god of light. I was early a wayward
child. When a soldier in the legions I now command, my life was what a soldier's is--a life
of action, hardship, peril, and blood. The deities of Heaven soon became to me as if they were
not. And so it has been for well nigh all the years of my life. But, the gods be thanked, Fronto
has redeemed me! and since I have worn this diadem have I toiled, Rome can testify with what
zeal, to restore to her gods their lost honors--to purge her worship of the foul corruptions
that were bringing it into contempt--and raise it higher than ever in the honor of the people,
by the magnificence of the temples I have built; by the gifts I have lavished upon them; by
the ample riches wherewith I have endowed the priesthood. And more than once, while this work
has been achieving, has the form of my revered parent, beautiful in the dazzling robes of her
office, stood by my bedside--whether in dream, or in vision, or in actual presence, I cannot
tell--and blessed me for my pious enterprise--"The gods be thanked," the lips have said, or
seemed to say, "that thy youth lasts not always but that age has come, and with it second childhood
in thy reverence of the gods, whose worship it was mine to put into thy infant heart. Go on
thy way, my son! Build up the fallen altars, and lay low the aspiring fanes of the wicked.
Finish what thou hast begun, and all time shall pronounce thee greatest of the great." Should
I disobey the warning? The gods forbid! and save me from such impiety. I am now, Piso, doubly
armed for the work I have taken in hand--first by the zeal of the pious Fronto, and second,
by the manifest finger of Heaven pointing the way I should go. And, please the Almighty Ruler!
I will enter upon it, and it shall not be for want of a determined will and of eyes too used
to the shedding of blood to be frightened now though an ocean full were spilled before them,
if this race be not utterly swept from the face of the earth, from the suckling to the silver
head, from the beggar to the prince--and from Rome all around to the four winds, as far as
her almighty arms can reach.'

My heart sunk within me as he spoke, and my knees trembled under me. I knew the power and spirit
of the man, and I now saw that superstition had claimed him for her own; that he would go about
his work of death and ruin, armed with his own cruel and bloody mind, and urged behind by the
fiercer spirit still of Pagan bigotry. It seemed to me, in spite of what I had just said myself,
and thought I believed, as if the death-note of Christianity had now been rung in my ear. The
voice of Aurelian as he spoke had lost its usual sharpness, and fallen into a lower tone full
of meaning, and which said to me that his very inmost soul was pouring itself out, with the
awful words he used. I felt utterly helpless and undone--like an ant in the pathway of a giant--incapable
of resistance or escape. I suppose all this was visible in my countenance. I said nothing;
and Aurelian, after pausing a moment, went on.

'Think me not, Piso, to be using the words of an idle braggart in what I have said. Who has
known Aurelian, when once he has threatened death, to hold back his hand? But I will give thee
earnest of my truth!'

'I require it not, Aurelian. I question not thy truth.'

'I will give it notwithstanding, Piso. What will you think--you will think as you ever have
of me--if I should say that already, and upon one of my own house, infected with this hell-begotten
atheism, has the axe already fallen!'

Hearing the horrible truth from his own lips, it seemed as if I had never heard it before.
I hardly had believed it.

'Tyrant!' I exclaimed, 'it cannot be! What, Aurelia?'

'Yes, Aurelia! Keep thy young blood cool, Piso. Yes, Aurelia! Ere I struck at others, it behoved
me to reprove my own. It was no easy service, as you may guess, but it must be done. And not
only was Aurelia herself pertinaciously wedded to this fatal mischief, but she was subduing
the manly mind of Mucapor too, who, had he been successfully wrought upon, were as good as
dead to me and to Rome--and he is one whom our legions cannot spare. We have Christians more
than enough already in our ranks: a Christian general was not to be borne. This was additional
matter of accusation against Aurelia, and made it right that she should die. But she had her
free choice of life, honor, rank, riches, and, added to all, Mucapor, whose equal Rome does
not hold, if she would but take them. One word spoken and they were all her own; with no small
chance that she should one day be what Livia is. But that one word her obstinate superstition
would not let her speak.'

'No, Aurelian; there is that in the Christian superstition that always forbids the uttering
of that one word. Death to the Christian is but another word for life. Apostacy is the true
death. You have destroyed the body of Aurelia, but her virtuous soul is already with God, and
it is you who have girded upon her brow a garland that shall never fade. Of that much may you
make your boast.'

'Piso, I bear with you, and shall; but there is no other in Rome who might say so much.'

'Nay, nay, Aurelian, there I believe you better than you make yourself. To him who is already
the victim of the axe or the beasts do you never deny the liberty of the tongue,--such as it
then is.'

'Upon Piso, and he the husband of Julia, I can inflict no evil, nor permit it done.'

'I would take shelter, Aurelian, neither behind my own name, my father's, nor my wife's. I
am a Christian--and such fate as may befall the rest, I would share. Yet not willingly, for
life and happiness are dear to me as to you--and they are dear to all these innocent multitudes
whom you do now, in the exercise of despotic power, doom to a sudden and abhorred death. Bethink
yourself, Aurelian, before it be too late--'

'I have bethought myself of it all,' he replied--'and were the suffering ten times more, and
the blood to be poured out a thousand times more, I would draw back not one step. The die has
been cast; it has come up as it is, and so must be the game. I listen to no appeal.'

'Not from me,' I replied; 'but surely you will not deny a hearing to what these people may
say in their own defence. That were neither just nor merciful; nor were it like Aurelian. There
is much which by their proper organs they might say to place before you their faith in the
light of truth. You have heard what you have received concerning it, chiefly from the lips
of Fronto; and can he know what he has never learned? or tell it unperverted by prejudices
black as night?'

'I have already said,' rejoined the Emperor, 'that I would hear them, and I will. But it can
avail them no more than words uttered in the breath of the tempest that is raging up from the
north. Hear them! This day have I already heard them--from one of those madmen of theirs who
plague the streets of Rome. Passing early by the temple of Æsculapius--that one which stands
not an arrow's flight from the column of Trajan--I came upon a dense crowd of all sorts of
persons listening to a gaunt figure of a man who spoke to them. Soon as I came against him,
and paused on my horse for the crowd to make way, the wild beast who was declaiming, shouted
at me at the top of his voice, calling on me to 'hear the word of God which he would speak
to me.' Knowing him by such jargon to be a Christian, I did as he desired, and there stood,
while he, for my especial instruction, laid bare the iniquities and follies of the Roman worship;
sent the priesthood and all who entered their temples to the infernal regions; and prophesied
against Rome--which he termed Babylon--that ere so many centuries were gone, her walls would
lie even with the ground, her temples moulder in ruins, her language become extinct, and her
people confounded with other nations and lost. And all this because, I, whom he now called,
if I remember the names aright, Ahaz and now Nebuchadnezzar, oppressed the children of God
and held them in captivity: while in the same breath he bid me come on with my chains, gibbets,
beasts, crosses, and fires, for they were ready, and would rejoice to bear their testimony
in the cause of Christ. As I turned to resume my way, his words were; 'Go on, thou man of pride
and blood; go on thy way! The gates of hell swing open for thee! Already the arm of the Lord
is bared against thee! the winged lightning struggles in his hand to smite thee! I hear thy
cry for mercy which no one answers--' and more, till I was beyond the reach of his owl's voice.
There was an appeal, Piso, from this people! What think you of it?'

'He whom you heard,' I replied, 'I know, and know him to be honest and true; as loyal a subject
too as Rome holds. He is led away by his hot and hasty temper both to do and say what injures
not only him, but all who are joined with him, and the cause he defends. He offends the Christians
hardly less than others. Judge not all by him. He stands alone. If you would hear one whom
all alike confide in, and who may fitly represent the feelings and principles of the whole
body of Christians, summon Probus. From him may you learn without exaggeration or concealment,
without reproach of others or undue boasting of themselves, what the Christians are in their
doctrines and their lives, as citizens of Rome and loyal subjects of Aurelian, and what, as
citizens of heaven and loyal followers of Jesus Christ.'

The Emperor promised to consider it. He had no other reason to deny such favor, but the tedium
of listening to what could profit neither him nor others.

We then turned toward the palace, where I saw Livia; now as silent and sad as, when in Palmyra,
she was lively and gay. Not that Aurelian abates the least of his worship, but that the gloom
which overshadows him imparts itself to her, and that knowing what has befallen Aurelia, she
cannot but feel it to be a possible thing for the blow to fall elsewhere and nearer. Yet is
there the same outward show as ever. The palace is still thronged, with not Rome only, but
by strangers from all quarters of the empire, anxious to pay their homage at once to the Empress
of Rome, to the most beautiful woman in the world--such is the language--and to a daughter
of the far-famed Zenobia.

The city is now crowded with travelers of all nations, so much so that the inns can scarce
receive them; and hardly ever before was private hospitality so put to all its resources. With
all, and everywhere, in the streets, at the public baths, in the porticos, at the private or
public banquet, the Christians are the one absorbing topic. And, at least, this good comes
with the evil, that thus the character of this religion, as compared with that of Rome and
other faiths, is made known to thousands who might otherwise never have heard of it, or have
felt interest enough in it to examine its claims. It leads to a large demand for, and sale
of, our sacred books. The copyists can hardly supply them so fast as they are wanted. For in
the case of any dispute or conversation, it is common to hear the books themselves referred
to, and then to be called in as witnesses for or against a statement made. And pleasant enough
is it to see how clear the general voice is on our side--especially with the strangers--how
indignant they are, for the most part, that violence, to the extreme of another Decian persecution,
should be so much as dreamed of. Would that the same could be said of our citizens and countrymen!
A large proportion of them indeed embrace the same liberal sentiments, but a greater part,
if not for extreme violence, are yet for oppression and suppression; and I dare not say how
many, for all that Aurelian himself designs. Among the lower orders, especially, a ferocious
and blood-thirsty spirit breaks out in a thousand ways that fills the bosom both with grief
and terror.

The clouds are gathering over us, Fausta, heavy and black with the tempest pent up within.
The thunders are rolling in the distance, and each hour coming nearer and nearer. Whom the
lightnings shall strike--how vain to conjecture! Would to God that Julia were anywhere but
here! For, to you I may say it, I cannot trust Aurelian--yes--Aurelian himself I may; but not
Aurelian the tool of Fronto. Farewell.

LETTER IX.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

When I turned from the palace of Aurelian and again took my way towards the Coelian, I did
it in the belief that before the day should end, edicts against the Christians would be published.
I found, as I conversed with many whom I met in the way, that from other sources the same opinion
had become common. In one manner or another it had come abroad that measures had been resolved
upon by the Emperor, and would soon be put in force. Many indeed do not give the least credit
to the rumors, and believe that they all spring from the violent language of Fronto, which
has been reported as that of Aurelian. You may wonder that there should be such uncertainty
respecting a great design like this. But you must remember that Aurelian has of late shrouded
himself in a studied obscurity. Not a despot, in the despotic lands of Asia, keeps more secret
counsel than he, or leans less upon the opinion or advice of others. All that is done throughout
the vast compass of the empire, springs from him alone--all the affairs of foreign and dependent
kingdoms are arranged and determined by him. As for Italy and the capital, they are mere playthings
in his hand. You ask if the senate does not still exist? I answer, it does; but, as a man exists
whom a palsy has made but half alive; the body is there, but the soul is gone, and even the
body is asleep. The senators, with all becoming gravity, assemble themselves at the capitol,
and what time they sleep not away the tedious hours in their ivory chairs, they debate such
high matters as, 'whether the tax which this year falls heavy upon Capua, by reason of a blast
upon the grapes, shall be lightened or remitted!' or 'whether the petition of the Milanese
for the construction at the public expense of a granary shall be answered favorably!' or 'whether
V. P. Naso shall be granted a new trial after defeat at the highest court!' Not that there
is not virtue in the senate, some dignity, some respect and love for the liberties of Rome--witness
myself--but that the Emperor has engrossed the whole empire to himself, and nothing is left
for that body but to keep alive the few remaining forms of ancient liberty, by assembling as
formerly, and taking care of whatever insignificant affairs are intrusted to them. In a great
movement like this against the Christians, Aurelian does not so much as recognize their existence.
No advice is asked, no coöperation. And the less is he disposed to communicate with them in
the present instance perhaps, from knowing so well that the measure would find no favor in
their eyes; but would, on the contrary, be violently opposed. Everything, accordingly, originates
in the sovereign will of Aurelian, and is carried into effect by his arm wielding the total
power of this boundless empire--being now, what it has been his boast to make it, coëxtensive
with its extremest borders as they were in the time of the Antonines. There is no power to
resist him; nor are there many who dare to utter their real opinions, least of all, a senator,
or a noble. A beggar in the street may do it with better chance of its being respected, if
agreeable to him, and of escaping rebuke or worse, if it be unpalatable. To the people, he
is still, as ever, courteous and indulgent.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is throughout the city a strange silence and gloom, as if in expectancy of some great
calamity; or of some event of dark and uncertain character. The Christians go about their affairs
as usual, not ceasing from any labors, nor withdrawing from the scene of danger; but with firm
step and serious air keep on their way as if conscious of the great part which it is theirs
to act, and resolved that it shall not suffer at their hands. Many with whom I have spoken,
put on even a cheerful air as they have greeted me, and after the usual morning's salutation,
have passed on as if things were in their usual train. Others with pale face and quivering
lip confessed the inward tumult, and that, if they feared naught for themselves, there were
those at home, helpless and exposed, for whom the heart bled, and for whom it could not but
show signs of fear.

I met the elder Demetrius. His manly and thoughtful countenance--though it betrayed nothing
of weakness--was agitated with suppressed emotion. He is a man full of courage, but full of
sensibility too. His affections are warm and tender as those of a girl. He asked me 'what I
could inform him of the truth of the rumors which were now afloat of the most terrific character.'
I saw where his heart was as he spoke, and answered him, as you may believe, with pain and
reluctance. I knew, indeed, that the whole truth would soon break upon him--it was a foolish
weakness--but I could hardly bring myself to tell him what a few hours would probably reveal.
I told him, however, all that I had just learned from Aurelian himself, and which, as he made
no reserve with regard to me, nor enjoined concealment, I did not doubt was fully resolved
upon, and would be speedily put in force. As I spoke, the countenance of the Greek grew pale
beyond its usual hue of paleness. He bent his head, as in perplexed and anxious thought; the
tears were ready to overflow as he raised it, after a moment, and said,

'Piso, I am but recently a Christian. I know nothing of this religion but its beauty and truth.
It is what I have ever longed for, and now that I possess it I value it far more than life.
But,'--he paused a moment--'I have mingled but little with this people; I know scarcely any;
I am ignorant of what they require of those who belong to their number in such emergences.
I am ready to die myself, rather than shrink from a bold acknowledgment of what in my heart
I believe to be the divinest truth; but--my wife and my children!--must they too meet these
dangers? My wife has become what I am; my children are but infants; a Greek vessel sails to-morrow
for Scio, where dwells, in peaceful security, the father of my wife, from whom I received her,
almost to his distraction; her death would be his immolation. Should I offend'--

'Surely not,' I replied. 'If, as I believe will happen, the edicts of the Emperor should be
published to-day, put them on board to-night, and let to-morrow see them floating on the Mediterranean.
We are not all to stand still and hold our throats to the knife of this imperial butcher.'

'God be thanked!' said Demetrius, and grasping my hand with fervor turned quickly and moved
in the direction of his home.

Soon after, seated with Julia and Probus--he had joined me as I parted from Demetrius--I communicated
to her all that I had heard at the palace. It neither surprised nor alarmed her. But she could
not repress her grief at the prospect spread out before us of so much suffering to the innocent.

'How hard is this,' said she, 'to be called to bear such testimony as must now be borne to
truth! These Christian multitudes, so many of whom have but just adopted their new faith and
begun to taste of the pleasures it imparts, all enjoying in such harmony and quietness their
rich blessings--with many their only blessings--how hard for them, all at once, to see the
foundations of their peace broken up, and their very lives clamored for! rulers and people
setting upon them as troops of wild beasts! It demands almost more faith than I can boast,
to sit here without complaint a witness of such wrong. How strange, Probus, that life should
be made so difficult! That not a single possession worth having can be secured without so much
either of labor or endurance! I wonder if this is ever to cease on earth?'

'I can hardly suppose that it will,' said Probus. 'Labor and suffering, in some of their forms,
seem both essential. My arm would be weak as a rush were it never moved; but exercised, and
you see it is nervous and strong; plied like a smith's, and it grows to be hard as iron and
capable of miracles. So it is with any faculty you may select; the harder it is tasked the
more worthy it becomes; and without tasking at all, it is worth nothing. So seems to me it
is with the whole man. In a smooth and even lot our worth never would be known, and we could
respect neither ourselves nor others. Greatness and worth come only of collision and conflict.
Let our path be strewed with roses, and soft southern gales ever blow, and earth send up of
her own accord our ready prepared nutriment, and mankind would be but one huge multitude of
Sybarites, dissolved in sloth and effeminacy. If no difficulty opposed, no labor exacted, body
and mind were dead. Hence it is, we may believe, that man must everywhere labor even for the
food which is necessary to mere existence. Life is made dear to us by an instinct--we shrink
from nothing as we do from the mere thought of non-existence--but still it is death or toil;
that is the alternative. So that labor is thus insured wherever man is found, and it is this
that makes him what he is. Then he is made, moreover, so as to crave not only food but knowledge
as much, and also virtue; but between him and both these objects there are interposed, for
the same reason doubtless, mountains of difficulty, which he must clamber up and over before
he can bask in the pleasant fields that lie beyond, and then ascend the distant mountain-tops,
from which but a single step removes him from the abode of God. Doubt it not, lady, that it
is never in vain and for naught that man labors and suffers; but that the good which redounds
is in proportion to what is undergone, and more than a compensation. If, in these times of
darkness and fear, suffering is more, goodness and faith are more also. There are Christians,
and men, made by such trials, that are never made elsewhere nor otherwise--nor can be; just
as the arm of Hercules could not be but by the labors of Hercules. What says Macer? Why even
this, that God is to be thanked for this danger, for that the church needs it! The brief prosperity
it has enjoyed since the time of Valerian and Macrianus, has corrupted it, and it must be purged
anew, and tried by fire! I think not that; but I think this; that if suffering ever so extreme
is ordained, there will be a virtue begotten in the souls of the sufferers, and abroad through
them, that shall prove it not to have been in vain.'

'I can believe what you say,' said Julia, 'at least I can believe in the virtue ascribed to
labor, and the collision with difficulty. Suffering is passive; may it not be that we may come
to place too much merit in this?'

'It is not to be doubted that we may,' replied Probus. 'The temptation to do so is great. It
is easy to suffer. In comparison with labor and duty--life-long labor and duty--it is a light
service. Yet it carries with it an imposing air, and is too apt to take to itself all the glory
of the Christian's course. Many who have lived as Christians but indifferently have, in the
hour of persecution, and in the heat of that hour, rushed upon death and borne it well, and
before it extremest torture, and gained the crown of martyrdom and the name of saint--a crown
not always without spot--a name not always honorable. He who suffers for Christ must suffer
with simplicity--even as he has lived with simplicity. And when he has lived so, and endured
the martyr's death at last, that is to be accounted but the last of many acts of duty which
are essentially alike--unless it may be that in many a previous conflict over temptation and
the world and sin, there was a harder victory won, and a harder duty done, than when the flames
consumed him, or the beasts tare him limb from limb.'

'Yet, Probus,' continued Julia, 'among the humble and the ignorant, where we cannot suppose
that vanity could operate, where men have received Christianity only because it seemed to them
just the faith they needed, and who then when it has been required that they renounce it, will
not do so, but hold steadfastly to what they regard the truth of God, and for it take with
meekness and patience all manner of torture, and death itself--there is surely here great virtue!
Suffering here has great worth and sets upon the soul the seal of God. Is it not so?'

'Most assuredly it is,' answered Probus. 'O there is no virtue on earth greater than theirs!
When dragged from their quiet homes--unknown, obscure, despised, solitary, with not one pitying
eye to look on upon their sufferings, with none to record their name, none to know it even--they
do, nevertheless, without faltering, keep true to their faith, hugging it to them the closer
the more it is tried to tear them asunder--this, this is virtue the greatest on earth! It is
a testimony borne to the truth of whatever cause is thus supported, that is daily bringing
forth its fruits in the conviction and conversion of multitudes. It is said, that in the Decian
persecution, it was the fortitude and patience under the cruelest sufferings of those humble
Christians whom no one knew, who came none knew whence, and who were dying out of a pure inward
love of the faith they professed, that fell upon the hearts of admiring thousands with more
than the force of miracle, and was the cause of the great and sudden growth of our numbers
which then took place. Still, suffering and dying for a faith is not unimpeachable evidence
of its truth. There have been those who have died and suffered for idolatries the most abhorred.
It is proof, indeed, not at all of truth itself, but only of the deep sincerity of him who
professes it.'

'Yes,' replied Julia, 'I see that it is so. But then it is a presumption in behalf of truth,
strong almost as miracles done for it, when so many--multitudes--in different ages, in the
humblest condition of life, hesitate not to die rather than renounce their faith in a religion
like this of Christianity; which panders to not one of man's passions, appetites or weaknesses,
but is the severest censor of morals the world has ever seen; which requires a virtue and a
purity in its disciples such as no philosopher ever dared to impose upon his scholars; whose
only promise is immortality--and that an immortality never to be separated from the idea of
retribution as making a part of it. They, who will suffer and die for such a religion, do by
that act work as effectively for it, as their master by the signs and wonders which he did.
If Christianity were like many of the forms of Paganism; or if it ministered to the cravings
of our sensual nature, as we can conceive a religion might do; if it made the work of life
light, and the reward certain and glorious; if it relieved its followers of much of the suffering,
and fear, and doubt, that oppress others--it would not be surprising that men should bear much
for its sake; and their doing so, for what appealed so to their selfishness, would be no evidence,
at all to be trusted, of its truth. But as it is, they who die for it afford a presumption
in behalf of it, that appeals to the reason almost or quite with the force of demonstration.
So, I remember well, my reason was impressed by what I used to hear from Paul of the sufferings
of the early Christians.'

While Julia had been saying these things, it had seemed to me as if there was an unusual commotion
in the streets; and as she ended I was about to look for the cause of it, when the hasty steps
of several running through the hall leading from the main entrance of the house prevented me,
and Milo breathless, followed by others of the household, rushed into the apartment where we
sat, he exclaiming with every mark of fear and horror upon his countenance,

'Ah! sir, it is all just as I was told by Curio it would be; the edicts are published on the
capitol. The people are going about the streets now in crowds, talking loud and furiously,
and before night they say the Christians will all be delivered to their pleasure.'

Soon as Milo could pause, I asked him 'if he had read or seen the edicts?'

'No, I have not,' he answered; 'I heard from Curio what they were to be.'

I told Julia and Probus that such I did not believe was their tenor. It did not agree with
usage, nor with what I had gathered from Aurelian of his designs. But that their import was
probably, at present, no more than deprivation of a portion of their freedom and of some of
their privileges. It was the purpose of Aurelian first to convert back again the erring multitudes
to Paganism, for which time must be granted.

But my words had no effect to calm the agitation of our slaves, who, filled with terror at
the reports of Milo, and at the confusion in the streets, had poured into the room, and were
showing in a thousand ways their affection for us, and their concern. Some of this number are
Christians, having been made so by the daily conversations which Julia has had with them, and
the instruction she has given them in the gospels. Most however are still of that religion
in which they were reared, as they are natives of the East, of the North, or of Africa. But
by all, with slight differences, was the same interest manifested in our safety. They were
ready to do anything for our protection; and chiefly urgent were they that we should that very
night escape from Rome--they could remain in security and defend the palace. When they had
thus in their simple way given free expression to their affections, I assured them that no
immediate danger impended, but even if it did, I should not fly from it, but should remain
where I was; that the religion for which I might suffer was worth to those who held it a great
deal more than mere life--we could easily sacrifice life for it, if that should be required.
Some seemed to understand this--others not; but they then retired, silent and calm, because
they saw that we were so.

Soon as they were withdrawn, I proposed to Probus that we should go forth and learn the exact
truth. We accordingly passed to the street, which, as it is one that forms the principal avenue
from this part of the city to the capitol, we found alive with numbers greater than usual,
with their faces turned toward that quarter. We joined them and moved with them in the same
direction. It was a fearful thing, Fausta, even to me, who am rarely disturbed by any event,
to listen to the language which fell on my ear on all sides from the lips of beings who wore
the same form as myself, and with me have a right to the name of man. It was chiefly that of
exultation and joy, that at length the power of the state was about to strike at the root of
this growing evil--that one had taken hold of the work who would not leave it, as others had,
half accomplished, but would finish it, as he had every other to which he had put his hand.

'Now we shall see,' cried one, 'what he whose hand bears the sword of a true soldier can do,
and whether Aurelian, who has slain more foes of Rome abroad than emperor before ever did,
cannot do as well by enemies at home.'

'Never doubt it,' said another. 'Before the ides of the month now just come in, not a Christian
will be seen in the streets of Rome. They will be swept out as clean, as by Varus they now
are of other filth. The Prefect is just the man for the times. Aurelian could not have been
better matched.'

'Lucky this,' said still another as he hurried away, 'is it not? Three vessels arrived yesterday
stowed thick with wild beasts from Africa and Asia. By the gods! there will be no starving
for them now. The only fear will be that gorged so they will lose their spirit.'

'I don't fear that,' said his older companion. 'I remember well the same game twenty-five years
ago. The fact was then that the taste of human blood whetted it for more and more, and, though
glutted, their rage seemed but to become more savage still; so that, though hunger was fed
to the full, and more, they fell upon fresh victims with increased fury--with a sort of madness
as it were. Such food, 'tis said, crazes them.

Others were soon next us from whom I heard,

'Let every soul perish. I care not for that, or rather I do. Let all die I say; but not in
this savage way. Let it be done by a proper accusation, trial, and judgment. Let profession
of atheism be death by a law, and let the law be executed, and the name will soon die. Inevitable
death under a law for any one who assumes the name, would soon do the work of extermination--better
than this universal slaughter which, I hear, is to be the way. Thousands are then overlooked
in the blind popular fury; the work by and by ceases through weariness; it is thought to be
completed--when lo! as the first fury of the storm is spent, they come forth from their hiding-places,
and things are but little better than before.'

'I think with you,' said the younger companion of him who had just spoken; 'and besides, Romans
need not the further instruction in the art of assassination, which such a service would impart.
Already nothing comes so like nature to a Roman as to kill; kill something--if not a beast,
a slave--if there is no slave at hand, a Christian--if no Christian, a citizen. One would think
we sucked in from our mothers not milk but blood--the blood too of our Parent Wolf. If the
state cannot stand secure, as our great men say, but by the destruction of this people, in
the name of the gods, let the executioners do the work, not our sons, brothers, and fathers.
So too, I say, touching the accursed games at the Flavian and elsewhere. What is the effect
but to make of us a nation of man-butchers? as, by the gods, we already are. If the gods send
not something or somebody to mend us, we shall presently fall upon one another and exterminate
ourselves.'

'Who knows but it is this very religion of the Christians that has been sent for that work?'
said a third who had joined the two. 'The Christians are famed for nothing more than for their
gentleness, and their care of one another--so, at least, I hear.'

'Who knows, indeed?' said the other. 'If it be so, pity it were not found out soon. Aurelian
will make short work with them.'

In the midst of such conversation, which on every side caught our ears as we walked silently
along, we came at length to the neighborhood of the capitol; but so great was the throng of
the people, who in Rome, have naught else to do but to rush together upon every piece of news,
that we could not even come within sight of the building, much less of the parchment.

We accordingly waited patiently to learn from some who might emerge from the crowd what the
precise amount of the edicts might be. We stood not long, before one struggling and pushing
about at all adventures, red and puffing with his efforts, extricated himself from the mass,
and adjusting his dress which was half torn from his back, began swearing and cursing the Emperor
and his ministers for a parcel of women and fools.

'What is it?' we asked, gathering about him. 'What have you seen? Did you reach the pillar?'

'Reach it? I did; but my cloak, that cost yesterday ten good aurelians, did not, and here I
stand cloakless--'

'Well, but the edicts.'

'Well, but the edicts! Be not in a hurry, friend--they are worth not so much as my cloak. Blank
parchment were just as good. I wonder old 'sword-in-hand didn't hang up a strip--'twould have
saved the expense of a scrivener. If any of you hear of a cloak found hereabouts, or any considerable
part of one, blue without, lined with yellow, and trimmed with gold, please to note the name
sewed on beneath the left shoulder, and send it according to the direction and your labor shall
not be lost.'

'But the edicts--the edicts.'

'O the edicts! why they are just this; the Christians are told that they must neither assemble
together in their houses of worship to hear their priests, nor turn the streets into places
of worship in their stead; but leave off all their old ways just as fast as they can and worship
the gods. There's an edict for you!'

'Who is this?' said one to Probus.

'I do not know; he seems sadly disappointed at the Emperor's clemency as he deems it.'

But what Probus did not know, another who at the moment came up, did; exclaiming, as he slapped
the disappointed man on the shoulder,

'What, old fellow, you here? always where mischief is brewing. But who ever saw you without
Nero and Sylla? What has happened? and no cloak either?'

'Nero and Sylla are in their den--for my cloak I fear it is in a worse place. But come, give
me your arm, and let us return. I thought a fine business was opening, and so ran up to see.
But it's all a sham.'

'It's only put off,' said his companion, as they walked away; 'your dogs will have enough to
do before the month is half out--if Fronto knows anything.'

'That is one, I see,' said he who had spoken to Probus, 'who breeds hounds for the theatres--I
thought I had seen him before. His ordinary stock is not less than five hundred blood-hounds.
He married the sister of the gladiator Sosia. His name is Hanno.'

Having heard enough, we turned away and sought again the Coelian. You thus see, Fausta, what
Rome is made of, and into what hands we may all come. Do you wonder at my love of Christianity?
at my zeal for its progress? Unless it prosper, unless it take root and spread through this
people, their fate is sealed, to my mind, with the same certainty as if I saw their doom written
upon the midnight sky in letters of fire. Their own wickedness will break them in pieces and
destroy them. It is a weight beneath which no society can stand. It must give way in general
anarchy and ruin. But my trust is that, in spite of Aurelian and of all other power, this faith
will go on its way, and so infuse itself into the mass as never to be dislodged, and work out
its perfect ultimate regeneration.

By this decree of the Emperor then, which was soon published in every part of the capital,
the Christians are prohibited from assembling together for purposes of worship, their churches
are closed, and their preachers silenced.

One day intervenes between this, and the first day of the week, the day on which the Christians
as you may perhaps know assemble for their worship. In the meantime it will be determined what
course shall be pursued.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those days have passed, Fausta, and before I seal my letter I will add to it an account of them.

Immediately upon the publication of the Emperor's decrees, the Christians throughout the city
communicated with each other, and resolved, their places of worship being all closed and guarded,
to assemble secretly, in some spot to be selected, both for worship and to determine what was
to be done, if anything, to shield themselves from the greater evils which threatened. The
place selected was the old ruins where the house of Macer stands. 'There still remains,' so
Macer urged, 'a vast circular apartment partly below and partly above the surface of the ground,
of massy walls, without windows, remote from the streets, and so surrounded by fallen walls
and columns as to be wholly buried from the sight. The entrance to it was through his dwelling,
and the rooms beyond. Resorting thither when it should be dark, and seeking his house singly
and by different avenues among the ruins, there would be little chance of observation and disturbance.'
Macer's counsel was accepted.

On the evening of the first day of the week--a day which since I had returned from the East
to Rome had ever come to me laden with both pleasure and profit--I took my way under cover
of a night without star or moon, and doubly dark by reason of clouds that hung black and low,
to the appointed place of assembly. The cold winds of autumn were driving in fitful blasts
through the streets, striking a chill into the soul as well as the body. They seemed ominous
of that black and bitter storm that was even now beginning to break in sorrow and death upon
the followers of Christ. Before I reached the ruins the rain fell in heavy drops, and the wind
was rising and swelling into a tempest. It seemed to me, in the frame I was then in, better
than a calm. It was moreover a wall of defence against such as might be disposed to track and
betray us.

Entering by the door of Macer's cell, I passed through many dark and narrow apartments, following
the noise of the steps of some who were going before me, till at length I emerged into the
vaulted hall spoken of by Macer. It was lofty and spacious, and already filled with figures
of men and women, whom the dim light of a few lamps, placed upon the fragments of the fallen
architecture, just enabled me to discern and distinguish from the masses of marble and broken
columns which strewed the interior, which, when they afforded a secure footing, were covered
with the assembled worshippers. The footsteps of those who were the last to enter soon died
away upon the ear, and deep silence ensued, unbroken by any sound save that of the sighs and
weeping of such as could not restrain their feelings.

It was interrupted by the voice of one who said,

'That the Christians of Rome were assembled here by agreement to consult together concerning
their affairs, which now, by reason of the sudden hostility of Aurelian, set on by the Pagan
priesthood, had assumed a dark and threatening aspect. It was needful so to consult; that it
might be well ascertained whether no steps could be taken to ward off the impending evil, and
if not, in what manner and to what extent we might be able to protect ourselves. But before
this be done,' he continued, 'let us all first with one heart seek the blessing of God. To-day,
Christians, for the first time within the memory of the younger portion of this assembly, have
we by the wicked power of the state been shut out of those temples where we have been wont
to offer up our seventh day worship. Here, in this deep cavern, there is none to alarm or interrupt.
Let us give our first hour to God. So shall the day not be lost, nor the enemy wholly prevail.'

'That is right,' said another. 'It is what we all wish. Let Probus speak to us and pray for us.'

'Felix! Felix!' cried other voices in different parts of the room.

'Not so, but Probus! Probus!' shouted a far greater number.

'Who does not know,' cried a shrill voice elevated to its utmost pitch, 'that Probus is a follower
of Paul of Samosata?'

'And who does not know,' responded he who had first spoken, 'that Felix follows after Plato
and Plotinus? Pagans both!'

'And what,' said the sharp voice of Macer, 'what if both be true? who dare say that Felix is
not a Christian?--who dare say that Probus is not a Christian? and if they are Christians,
who shall dare to say they may not speak to Christians? Probus was first asked, and let Probus
stand forth.'

The name of Probus was then uttered as it were by the whole assembly.

As he moved toward a more central and elevated spot, the same mean and shrill voice that had
first charged him, again was heard, advising that no hymn nor chant be sung; 'the Roman watch
is now abroad, and despite the raging of the storm their ears may catch the sound and the guard
be upon us.'

'Let them come then!' shouted Macer. 'Let them come! Shall any fear of man or of death frighten
us away from the worship of God? What death more glorious than if this moment those doors gave
way and the legions of Aurelian poured in? Praise God and Christ, Christians, in the highest
note you can raise, and let no cowardice seal your lips nor abate your breath.'

The voice of Probus, now heard in prayer, brought a deep silence upon the assembly, and I would
fain believe, harmony and peace also into the spirits of all who were there. It was a service
deeply moving and greatly comforting. Whatever any who were present might have thought of the
principles of Probus, all must have been penetrated and healed by that devout and benevolent
temper that was so manifest in the sentiments he uttered, and in the very tones of his voice.

No sooner had he ended his prayer than the voice of Macer broke forth, commencing a chant commonly
heard in the churches and with which all were familiar. His voice, louder than that of the
storm and shriller than the blast of a war-trumpet, rang through the vast apartment, and inspiring
all who were there with the same courage that possessed himself, their voices were instinctively
soon joined with his, and the hymn swelled upward with a burst of harmony that seemed as if
it might reach Heaven itself. Rome and its legions were then as if they did not exist. God
only was present to the mind, and the thoughts with which that hymn filled it. Its burden was
like this:

'O God almighty, God of Christ our Lord, arise and defend thy people. The terrors of death
are around us the enemies of truth and thy Son assail us, and we faint and are afraid. Their
hosts are encamped against us; they are ready to devour us. Our hope is in thee: Strengthen
and deliver us. Arise, O God, and visit us with thy salvation.'

These, and words like them, repeated with importunity and dwelt upon, the whole soul pouring
itself out with the notes, while tears ran down the cheeks of those who sang--the sign not
of weakness but of the strength of those affections which bound their hearts to God, to Christ,
and to one another--it seemed as if such words and so uttered could not but draw a blessing
down. As the hymn drew to a close and the sounds died away, deep silence again fell upon the
assembly. The heart had been relieved by the service; the soul had been rapt and borne quite
away; and by a common feeling an interval of rest ensued, which by each seemed to be devoted
to meditation and prayer. This, when it had lasted till the wants of each had been satisfied,
was broken by the voice of Probus.

What he said was wonderfully adapted to infuse fresh courage into every heart, and especially
to cheer and support the desponding and the timid. He held up before them the great examples
of those who, in the earlier ages of the church, had offered themselves as sacrifices upon
the same altar upon which the great head of the Christians had laid down his life. He made
it apparent how it had ever been through suffering of some kind on the part of some, that great
benefits had been conferred upon mankind; that they who would be benefactors of their race
must be willing cheerfully to bear the evil and suffering that in so great part constitutes
that office; and was it not a small thing to suffer, and that in the body only, and but for
a moment, if by such means great and permanent blessings to the souls of men might be secured,
and remotest ages of the world made to rejoice and flourish through the effects of their labors?
Every day of their worship they were accustomed to hear sung or recited the praises of those
who had died for Christ and truth; men of whom the world was not worthy, and who, beautiful
with the crown of martyrdom, were now of that glorious company who, in the presence of God,
were chanting the praises of God and the Lamb. Who was not ready to die, if it were so ordained,
if by such death truth could be transmitted to other ages? What was it to die to-day rather
than to-morrow--for that was all--or this year rather than the next, if one's death could be
made subservient to the great cause of Christ and his gospel? What was it to die by the sword
of a Roman executioner, or even to be torn by wild beasts, if by suffering so the soul became
allied to reformers and benefactors of all ages? And besides, what evil after all was it in
the power of their enemies to inflict? They could do no more than torment and destroy the body.
They could not touch nor harm the soul. By the infliction of death itself they did but hasten
the moment when they should stand clothed in shining garments in the presence of the Father.
'The time has come, Christians,' he then said, 'when, in the providence of God, you are called
upon to be witnesses of the faith which you profess in Christ. After many years of calm, a
storm has arisen, which begins already to be felt in the violence with which it beats upon
our heads. Almost ever since the reign of Decius have we possessed our borders in quietness.
Especially under Gallienus and Claudius, and during these nearly four years of Aurelian, have
we enjoyed our faith and our worship with none to alarm or oppress us. The laws of the empire
have been as a wall of defence between us and this fierce and bloody spirit of Pagan superstition.
They who would have willingly assailed and destroyed us have been forcibly restrained by wise
and merciful enactments. During this season of repose our numbers have increased, we have been
prosperous and happy. Our churches have multiplied, and all the signs of an outward prosperity
have been visible in all parts of this vast empire. Would to God I could say that while numbers
and wealth have been added to the church, it had grown in grace and in the practice of the
virtues of the gospel in the same proportion! But I cannot. The simplicity and purity of the
first ages are no longer to be seen among us. We no longer emulate the early apostles and make
them our patterns. We rather turn to the Pagan and Jewish priesthood, and in all that pertains
to the forms of our worship mould ourselves upon them; and in all that pertains to opinion
and doctrine we turn to the philosophers, and engraft, whatever of their mysteries and subtleties
we can, upon the plain and simple truth of Jesus. We have departed far, very far, from the
gospel standard, both in practice and in faith. We need, Christians, to be brought back. We
have gone astray--we have almost worshipped other gods,--it is needful that we return in season
to our true allegiance. I dare not say, Christians, that the calamity which now impends is
a judgment of God upon our corruptions; we know not what events are of a judicial character,
they have upon them no signature which marks them as such; but this we may say, that it will
he no calamity, but a benefit and a blessing rather, if it have the effect to show us our errors,
and cause us to retrace our steps. Aurelian, enemy though we call him, may prove our benefactor;
he may scourge us, but the sufferings he inflicts may bring healing along with them, being
that very medicine which the sick soul needs. Let us meet then this new and heavy trial as
a part of the providence of God, as a part of that mysterious plan--the lines of which are
in so great part hidden from our eyes--by which he educates his children, and at the same time,
and by the same means, prepares and transmits to future generations the richest blessings.
If we, Christians, suffer for the cause of truth, if our blood is poured out like water, let
us remember that it serves to fertilize that soil out of which divine nutriment shall grow
for generations yet unborn, whom it shall nourish up unto a better life. Let your hearts then
be strong within you; faint not, nor fear; God will be with you and his Spirit comfort you.

'But why do I say these things? Why do I exhort you to courage? For when was it known that
the followers of Christ shrunk from the path of duty, though it were evidently the path of
death? When and in what age have those been wanting who should bear witness to the truth, and
seal it with their blood? There have been those who in time of persecution have fallen away--but
for one apostate there have been a thousand martyrs. We have been, I may rather affirm, too
prodigal of life--too lavish of our blood. There has been, in former ages, not only a willingness,
a readiness to die for Christ, but an eagerness. Christians have not waited to be searched
for and found by the ministers of Roman power; they have thrust themselves forward; they have
gone up of their own accord to the tribunal and proclaimed their faith, and invited the death
at which nature trembles and revolts. But shall we blame this divine ardor? this more than
human contempt of suffering and death? this burning zeal for the great cause of our Master?
Let us rather honor and revere it as a temper truly divine and of more than mortal force. But
let us be just to all. While we honor the courage and self-sacrificing love of so many, let
us not require that all should be such, nor cast suspicion upon those who--loving Christ not
less in their hearts--shrink from the sufferings in which others glory. Ye need not, Christian
men and women, yourselves rush to the tribunal of Varus, ere you can feel that you are Christ's
indeed. It is not needful that to be a Christian you must also be a martyr. Ye need not, ye
ought not, impatiently seek for the rack and the cross. It is enough if, when sought and found
and arraigned, you be found faithful; if then you deny not nor renounce your Lord, but glory
in your name, and with your dying breath shout it forth as that for which you gladly encounter
torture and death. Go not forth then seeking the martyr's crown! Wait till you are called.
God knoweth, and he alone, whom he would have to glorify him by that death which is so much
more to be coveted than life. Leave all in the hand of Providence. You that are not chosen,
fear not that, though later, the gates of Heaven shall not be thrown open for you. Many are
the paths that lead to those gates. Besides, shall all rush upon certain death? Were all martyrs,
where then were the seed of the church? They who live, and by their life, consecrate to holiness
and God, show that they are his, do no less for their Master and his cause than do they who
die for that cause. Nay, 'tis easier to die well than to live well. The cross which we bear
through a long life of faithful service, is a heavier one than that which we bear as we go
up our Calvary. Leave all then, Christian men and women, in the hands of God. Seek not death
nor life. Shun not life nor death. Say each, "Here, Lord, is thy servant, do with him as shall
seem to thee good."

'And now, Christians, how shall we receive the edict of Aurelian? It silences our preachers,
it closes our churches. What now is the duty of the Christians of Rome?'

Soon as this question was proposed by Probus, many voices from various parts of the room gave
in their judgments. At first, the opinions expressed differed on many points: but as the discussion
was prolonged the difference grew less and less, till unanimity seemed to be attained. It was
agreed at length, that it was right to conform to the edict so far as this: 'That they would
not preach openly in the streets nor elsewhere; they would, at first, and scrupulously, conform
to the edict in its letter and spirit--until they had seen what could be done by appeals both
to the Emperor and the senate; but, maintaining at the same time, that if their appeals were
vain, if their churches were not restored to them with liberty to assemble in them as formerly
and for the same purposes--then they would take the freedom that was not granted, and use it
as before, and abide by the issue; no power of man should close their mouths as ambassadors
of God, as followers of Christ and through him reformers of the world; they would speak--they
would preach and pray, though death were the immediate reward.'

In this determination I heartily agreed as both moderate and yet firm; as showing respect for
the powers that are over us, and at the same time asserting our own rights, and declaring our
purpose to stand by them. But so thought not all. For no sooner was the opinion of the assembly
declared than Macer broke forth:

'I have heard,' said he, 'the judgment which has been pronounced. But I like it not--I agree
not to it. Shall the minister of Christ, the ambassador of God, a messenger from Heaven to
earth, hold his peace at the behest of a man, though he be an emperor, or of ten thousand men,
were all emperors? Not though every Christian in Rome subscribed to this judgment, not though
every Christian in the world assented to it, would I. Is Christ to receive laws of Aurelian?
Is the cause of God and truth to be postponed to that of the empire? and posterity to die of
hunger because we refuse to till the earth? We are God's spiritual husbandmen--the heart of
Rome is our field of labor--it is already the eleventh hour--the last days are at hand--and
shall we forbear our toil? shall we withdraw our hand from the plough? shall we cease to proclaim
the glad tidings of salvation because the doors of our churches are closed? Not so, Christians,
by the blessing of God, shall it be with me. While the streets of Rome and her door-stones
will serve me for church and pulpit, and while my tongue is left unwrenched from my mouth,
will I not cease to declare Jesus Christ and him crucified! Think you Aurelian will abate his
wrath or change his purposes of death, for all your humble sueing? that cringing and fawning
will turn aside the messengers of death? Believe it not. Ye know not Aurelian. More would ye
gain with him, did the faith of the peace-loving Jesus allow it, if ye went forth in battle
array and disputed this great question in the streets of Rome sword in hand! More would ye
gain now, if ye sent a word of defiance--denying his right to interpose between God and his
people--between Christ and his church--and daring him to do his worst, than by this tame surrender
of your rights--this almost base denial of your Master. No sooner shall tomorrow's sun have
risen, than on the very steps of the capitol will I preach Christ, and hurl the damnation of
God upon this bloody Emperor and his bloody people.'

'O, Macer, Macer! cease, cease!' cried a woman's voice from the crowd. 'You know not what you
say! Already have your harsh words put new bitterness into Aurelian's heart. Forbear, as you
love Christ and us.'

'Woman--' replied Macer, 'for such your voice declares you to be--I do love both Christ and
you, and it is because I love you that I aim to set aside this faithless judgment of the Roman
Christians. But when I say I love you and the believers in Rome, I mean your souls, not your
bodies. I love not your safety, nor your peace, nor your outward comforts; your houses, nor
your wealth, nor your children, nor your lives, nor anything that is yours which the eye can
see or the hands handle. I love your souls, and, beside them, nothing. And while it is them
I love, and for them am bound in the spirit as a minister of Christ, I may not hold my peace,
nor hide myself, for that there is a lion in the path! As a soldier of the cross I will never
flee. Though at the last day I hear no other word of praise from Him the judge--and no other
shall I hear, for my Pagan sins weigh me down--down--help, Lord! or I perish!--' Macer's voice
here took the tone of deepest agony; he seemed for a time wholly lost, standing still, with
outstretched arms and uplifted eye. After a long pause he suddenly resumed. 'What did I say?--It
was this: though I hear no other word of praise from my judge as I stand at his judgment-seat,
I trust I shall hear this, that I did not flee nor hide myself, that I was no coward, but a
bold and fearless soldier of the cross, ready at any time and at all times to suffer for the
souls of my brethren.'

'Think not, Macer,' said Probus, 'that we shrink at the prospect of danger. But we would be
not only bold and unshrinking, but wise and prudent. There is more than one virtue goes to
make the Christian man. We think it right and wise first to appeal to the Emperor's love of
justice. We think it might redound greatly to our advantage if we could obtain a public hearing
before Aurelian, so that from one of our own side he, with all the nobility of Rome, might
hear the truth in Christ, and then judge whether to believe so was hurtful to the state, or
deserving of torture and death.'

'As well, Probus,' replied Macer, 'might you preach the faith of Christ in the ear of the adder!
to the very stones of the highways! Aurelian turn from a settled purpose! ha! ha! you have
not served, Probus, under him in Gaul and Asia as others have. Never did the arguments of his
legions and his great officers on the other side, serve but to intrench him the more impregnably
in his own. He knows not what the word change means. But were this possible, and of good hope,
it shows not that plain and straight path to which my spirit points, and which therefore I
must travel. Is it right to hearken to man rather than God? That to me is the only question.
Shall Aurelian silence the ambassador of God and Christ? Shall man wrestle and dispute it with
the Almighty? God, or Aurelian, which shall it be? To me, Christians, it would be a crime of
deeper dye than the errors of my Pagan youth, did I chain my tongue, were it but for an hour,
at the command of Aurelian. I have a light within, and it is that I must obey. I reason not--I
weigh not probabilities--I balance not argument against argument--I feel! and that I take to
be the instinct of God--the inspiration of his holy Spirit--and as I feel so am I bound to act.'

It was felt to be useless to reason with this impetuous and self-willed man. He must be left
to work out his own path through the surrounding perils, and bear whatever evil his violent
rashness might draw upon his head. Yet his are those extreme and violent opinions and feelings
which are so apt to carry away the multitude, and it was easy to see that a large proportion
of the assembly went with him. Another occasion was given for their expression.

When it had been determined that the edicts should be observed so far as to refrain from all
public preaching and all assembling together, till the Emperor had been first appealed to,
it then became a question in what manner he should be approached, and by whom, in behalf of
the whole body. And no sooner had Macer ceased, than the same voice which had first brought
those charges against Probus was again heard--the voice as I have since learned of a friend
of Felix, and an exorcist.

'If it be now determined,' said the voice, 'that we appeal to the clemency of the Emperor in
order to avert from our heads the evil that seems to be more than threatened, let it be done
by some one who in his faith may nay represent the great body of Christ's followers. Whether
the Emperor shall feel well inclined toward us or not, will it not greatly depend upon the
manner in which the truth in Christ shall be set forth, and whether by means of the principles
and doctrines that shall be shown to belong to it and constitute it, it shall be judged by
him to be of hurtful or beneficial tendency? Now it is well known to all how variously Christ
is received and interpreted in Rome. As received by some, his gospel is one thing; as received
by others, it is another and quite a different thing. Who can doubt that our prospect of a
favorable hearing with Aurelian will be an encouraging one in the proportion that he shall
perceive our opinions to agree with those which have already been advanced in the schools of
philosophy--especially in that of the divine Plato. This agreement and almost identity has,
ever since the time of Justin, been pointed out and learnedly defended. They who perceive this
agreement, and rest in it as their faith, now constitute the greater part of the Christian
world. Let him then who is to bespeak for us the Emperor's good-will be, as in good sooth he
ought to be, of these opinions. As to the declaration that has been made that one is as much
a Christian as another, whatever the difference of faith may be, I cannot receive it; and he
who made the declaration, I doubt would scarce abide by it, since as I learn he is a worshipper
and follower of that false-hearted interloper Novatian. The puritans least of all are apt to
regard with favor those who hold not with them. Let Felix then, who, if any now living in Rome
may stand forward as a specimen of what Christ's religion is in both its doctrine and its life--let
Felix plead our cause with Aurelian.'

The same difference of feeling and opinion manifested itself as before. Many voices immediately
cried out, 'Yes, yes, Felix, let Felix speak for us.' While others from every part of the room
were heard shouting out, 'Probus, Probus, let Probus be our advocate!'

At length the confusion subsided as a single voice made itself heard above the others and caught
their attention, saying,

'If Felix, O Christians, as has just been affirmed, represents the opinions which are now most
popular in the Christian world, at least here in Rome, Probus represents those which are more
ancient--' He was instantly interrupted.

'How long ago,' cried another, 'lived Paul of Samosata?'

'When died the heretic Sabellius?' added still another.

'Or Praxeas?' said a third, 'or Theodotos? or Artemon?'

'These,' replied the first, soon as he could find room for utterance--'these are indeed not
of the earliest age, but they from whom they learned their faith are of that age, namely, the
apostles and the great master of all.'

'Heresy,' cried out one who had spoken before, 'always dates from the oldest; it never has
less age nor authority than that of Christ.'

'Christians! Christians!' Macer's stentorian voice was now heard towering above the tumult,
'what is it ye would have? What are these distinctions about which ye dispute? What have they
to do with the matter now in hand? How would one doctrine or the other in such matters weigh
with Aurelian more than straws or feathers? But if these are stark naught, and less than naught,
there are other questions pertinent to the time, nay, which the time forces upon us, and about
which we should be well agreed. A new age of persecution has arisen, and the church is about
to be sifted, and the wheat separated from the chaff--the first to be gathered into the garners
of God, the last to be burnt up in fire unquenchable. Now is it to be proved who are Christ's,
and who are not--who will follow him bearing their cross to some new Calvary, and who, saving
their lives, shall yet lose them. Who knows not the evil that, in the time of Decius, yes,
and before and since too, fell upon the church from the so easy reception and restoration of
those who, in an hour of weakness and fear, denied their master and his faith, and bowed the
knee to the gods of Rome? Here is the danger against which we are to guard; from this quarter--not
from any other of vain jargon concerning natures, essences, and modes of being--are we to look
for those fatal inroads to be made upon the purity of the gospel, that cannot but draw along
with them corruption and ruin. Of what stuff will the church then be made, when they who are
its ministers, deacons and bishops, shall be such as, when danger showed itself, relapsed into
idolatry, and, soon as the clouds had drifted by, and the winds blew soft, came forth again
into the calm sunshine, renounced their idolatry, and again professing Christ, were received
to the arms of the church, and even to the communion of the body and blood of our Lord? Christians,
the great Novatian is he to whom we owe what purity the church yet retains, and it is in allegiance
to him--'

'The great Novatian!' exclaimed a priest of the Roman church, 'great only in his infamy! Himself
an apostate once, he sought afterwards, having been received himself back again to the church
upon his repentance, to bury his shame under a show of zeal against such as were guilty of
the same offence. His own weakness or sin, instead of teaching him compassion, served but to
harden his heart. Is this the man to whose principles we are to pledge ourselves? Were his
principles sound in themselves, we could hardly take them from such a source. But they are
false. They are in the face of the spirit and letter of the gospel. What is the character of
the religion of Christ, if it be not mercy? Yet this great Novatian, to those who like Peter
have fallen--Peter whom his master received and forgave--denies all mercy! and for one offence,
however penitence may wring the soul, cuts them off forever like a rotten branch from the body
of Christ! Is this the teacher whose follower should appeal for us to the Roman Emperor?'

'I seek not,' Macer began to say, 'to defend the bishop of Rome--'

'Bishop!' cried the other, 'bishop! who ever heard that Novatian was bishop of Rome? But who
has not heard that that wicked and ambitious man through envy of Cornelius, and resolved to
supplant him, caused himself to be ordained bishop by a few of that order, weak and corrupt
men, whom he bribed to the bad work, but who, corrupt as they were, and bribed as they were,
it was first needful to make drunk before conscience would allow them by such act eternally
to disgrace themselves and the church--'

'Lies and slanders all,' cried Macer and others with him, in the same breath and with their
utmost voice. The greatest confusion prevailed. A thousand contradictory cries were heard.
In the midst of the uproar the name of Macer was proclaimed by many as that of one who would
best assert and defend the Christian cause before Aurelian. But these were soon overborne and
silenced by a greater number, who now again called upon Probus to fill that office.

Probus seemed not sorry that, his name being thus tumultuously called out, he had it again
in his power to speak to the assembly. Making a sign accordingly that he would be heard, he said,

'That he coveted not the honorable office of appealing for them to the Emperor of Rome. It
would confer more happiness a thousand fold, Christians, if I could by any words of mine put
harmony and peace into your hearts, than if I might even convert a Roman emperor. What a scene
of confusion and discord is this, at such an hour, when, if ever, our hearts should be drawn
closer together by this exposure to a common calamity. Why is it that when at home, or moving
abroad in the business of life, your conversation so well becomes your name and faith, drawing
upon you even the commendation of your Pagan foes, you no sooner assemble together, as now,
than division and quarrel ensue, in such measure, as among our Heathen opponents is never seen?
Why is it, Christians, that when you are so ready to die for Christ, you will not live at peace
for him? Honor you not him more by showing that you are of his spirit, that for his name's
sake you are willing to bear patiently whatever reproach may be laid upon you, than you do
even by suffering and dying for him? The questions you have here agitated are not for this
hour and place. What now does it signify whether one be a follower of Paul, of Origen, of Sabellius,
or Novatian, when we are each and all so shortly to be called upon to confess our allegiance
to neither of these--but to a greater, even Jesus, the master and head of us all! And what
has our preference for some of the doctrines of either of these to do with our higher love
of Christ and his truth? By such preference is our superior and supreme regard for Jesus and
his word vitiated or invalidated? Nay, what is it we then do when we embrace the peculiar doctrine
of some great or good man, who has gone before, but embrace that which in a peculiar sense
we regard as the doctrine of Christ? We receive the peculiar doctrine of Paul, or Justin, or
Origen, not because it is theirs, but because we think they have shown it to be eminently the
doctrine of Christ. In binding upon us then the dogmas of any teacher, we ought not to be treated
other than as those who, in doing so, are seeking to do the highest honor, not to such teacher,
but to Christ. I am charged as a disciple of the bishop of Antioch, and the honored Felix as
a disciple of Plato. If I honor Paul of Samosata, Christians, for any of his truth, it is because
I deem him to have discerned clearly the truth as it is in Jesus. My faith is not in him, but
in Jesus. And if Felix honor Plato or Plotinus, it is but because in them he beholds some clearer
unfolding--clearer than elsewhere--of the truth in Christ. Are not we then, and all who do
the same thing, to be esteemed as those who honor Christ? not deny nor forsake him. And as
we all hold in especial reverence some one or another of a former age, through whom as a second
master we receive the doctrines of the gospel, ought we not all to love and honor one another,
seeing that in the same way we all love and honor Christ? Let love, Christians, mutual honor
and love, be the badge of our discipleship, as it was in the first age of the church. Soon,
very soon, will you be called to bear testimony to the cause you have espoused, and perhaps
seal it with your blood. Be not less ready to show your love to those around you by the promptness
with which you lend your sympathy, or counsel, or aid, as this new flood of adversity flows
in upon them. But why do I exhort you? The thousand acts of kindness, of charity, of brotherly
love, which flow outwards from you in a perpetual stream toward Heathen not less than Christian,
and have drawn upon you the admiration even of the Pagan world, is sufficient assurance that
your hearts will not be cold when the necessities of this heavier time shall lay upon you their
claims. It is only in the public assembly, and in the ardor of debate, that love seems cold
and dead. Forget then, now and tomorrow, that you are followers of any other than Christ. Forget
that you call yourselves after one teacher or another, and remember only that you are brethren,
members of one family, of the same household of faith, owning one master, worshipping one and
the same God and Father of us all. And now, Christians, if you would rather that Felix should
defend you before Aurelian, I would also. There is none among us who loves Christ more or better
than he, or would more readily lay down his life for his sake.'

Felix however joined with all the others--for all now, after these few words of Probus, seemed
of one opinion--in desiring that Probus should appear for the Christians before the Emperor;
which he then consented to do. Harmony was once more restored. The differences of opinion,
which separated them, seemed to be forgotten, and they mingled as friends and fellow-laborers
in the great cause of truth. They who had been harshest in the debate--which was at much greater
length, and conducted with much more vehemence than as I have described it--were among the
most forward to meet with urbanity those who were in faith the most distantly removed from
them. A long and friendly interview then took place, in which each communed with each, and
by words of faith or affection helped to supply the strength which all needed for the approaching
conflict. One saw no longer and heard no longer the enthusiastic disputant more bent upon victory
than truth, and heedless of the wounds he gave to the heart, provided he convinced the head
or silenced the tongue, but instead, those who now appeared no other than a company of neighbors
and friends engaged in the promotion of some common object of overwhelming interest.

When in this manner and for a considerable space of time a fit offering had been laid upon
the altar of love, the whole assembly again joined together in acts of prayer, and again lifted
up their voices in song of praise. This duty being performed, we separated and sought the streets.
The storm which had begun in violence, had increased, and it was with difficulty that beset
by darkness, wind, and rain, I succeeded without injury in finding my way to the Coelian.

Julia was waiting for me with anxious impatience.

After relating to her the events of the evening, she said,

'How strange, Lucius, the conduct of such men at such a time! How could Christians, with the
Christian's faith in their hearts, so lose the possession of themselves--and so violate all
that they profess as followers of Jesus! I confess, if this be the manner in which Christianity
is intended to operate upon the character, I am as yet wholly ignorant of it, and desire ever
to remain so. But it is not possible that they are right. Nay, they seem in some sort to have
acknowledged themselves to have been in the wrong by the last acts of the meeting. This brings
to my mind what Paul has often told me of the Christians of the same kind, at which I was then
amazed, but had forgotten. I do not comprehend it. I have read and studied the character and
the teachings of Jesus, and it seems to me I have arrived at some true understanding--for surely
there is little difficulty in doing so--of what he himself was, and of what he wished his followers
to be. Would he have recognized his likeness in those of whom you have now told me?'

'Yet,' I replied, 'there was more of it there in those very persons than at first we might
be inclined to think; and in the great multitude of those who were present, it may have been
all there, and was in most, I cannot doubt. We ought not to judge of this community by the
leaders of the several divisions which compose it. They are by no means just specimens, from
which to infer the character of all. They are but too often restless, ambitious, selfish men;
seeking their own aggrandizement and their party's, rather than the glory of Christ and his
truth. I can conceive of a reception of Christian precept and of the Christian spirit being
but little more perfect and complete, than I have found it among the humbler sort of the Christians
of Rome. Among them there is to be seen nothing of the temper of violence and bigotry that
was visible this evening in the language of so many. They, for the most part, place the religion
of Jesus in holy living, in love of one another, and patient waiting for the kingdom of God.
And their lives are seen to accord with these great principles of action. Even for their leaders,
who are in so many points so different from them, this may be said in explanation and excuse--that
from studying the record more than the common people, they come to consider more narrowly in
what the religion of Jesus consists, and arriving, after much labor, at what they believe in
their hearts to be the precise truth--truth the most vital of any to the power and success
of the gospel--this engrosses all their affections, and prompts all their labor and zeal. In
the dissemination of this do they alone behold the dissemination of Christianity itself--this
being denied or rejected, the gospel itself is. With such notions as fundamental principles
of action, it is easy to see with what sincere and virtuous indignation they would be filled
toward such as should set at nought and oppose that, which they cherish as the very central
glory and peculiarity of Christianity. These things being so, I can pity and forgive a great
deal of what appears to be, and is, so opposite to the true Christian temper, on account of
its origin and cause. Especially as these very persons, who are so impetuous, and truculent
almost, as partizans and advocates, are, as private Christians, examples perhaps of extraordinary
virtue. We certainly know this to be the case with Macer. An apostle was never more conscientious
nor more pure. Yet would he, had he power equal to his will, drive from the church all who
bowed not the knee to his idol Novatian.'

'But how,' asked Julia, 'would that agree with the offence he justly took at those who quarreled
with Probus and Felix on account of their doctrine?'

'There certainly would be in such conduct no agreement nor consistency. It only shows how easy
it is to see a fault in another, to which we are stone-blind in ourselves. In the faith or
errors of Probus and Felix he thought there was nothing that should injure their Christian
name, or unfit them for any office. Yet in the same breath he condemned as almost the worst
enemies of Christ such as refused honor and adherence to the severe and inhuman code of his
master Novatian.'

'But how far removed, Lucius, is all this from the spirit of the religion of Jesus! Allowing
all the force of the apologies you may offer, is it not a singular state for the minds and
tempers of those to have arrived at, who profess before the world to have formed themselves
after the doctrine, and, what is more, after the character of Christ? I cannot understand the
process by which it has been done, nor how it is that, without bringing upon themselves public
shame and reproach, such men can stand forth and proclaim themselves not only Christians, but
Christian leaders and ministers.'

'I can understand it, I confess, quite as little. But I cannot doubt that as Christianity outgrows
its infancy, especially when the great body of those who profess it shall have been formed
by it from their youth, and shall not be composed, as now, of those who have been brought over
from the opposite and uncongenial regions of Paganism, with much of their former character
still adhering to them, Christians will then be what they ought to be who make the life and
character of Jesus their standard. Nothing is learned so slowly by mankind as those lessons
which enforce mutual love and respect, in which the gospels so abound. We must allow not only
years, but hundreds of years, for these lessons to be imprinted upon the general heart of men,
and to be seen in all their character and intercourse. But when a few hundred years shall have
elapsed, and that is a long allowance for this education to be perfected in, I can conceive
that the times of the primitive peace and love shall be more than restored, and that such reproaches
as to-night were heard lavished upon one and another will be deemed as little compatible with
a Christian profession as would be violence and war. All violence and wrong must cease, as
this religion is received, and the ancient superstitions and idolatries die out.'

'What a privilege, to be born and live,' said Julia, 'in those fast approaching years, when
Christianity shall alone be received as the religion of this large empire, when Paganism shall
have become extinct in Rome war and slavery shall cease, and all our people shall be actuated
by the same great principles of faith and virtue that governed both Christ and his apostles!
A few centuries will witness more and better than we now dream of.'

So we pleased ourselves with visions of future peace and happiness, which Christianity was
to convert to reality. To me they are no longer mere visions, but as much realities to be experienced,
as the future towering oak is, when I look upon an acorn planted, or as the future man is,
when I look upon a little child. If Christianity grows at all, it must grow in such direction.
If it do not, it will not be Christianity that grows, but something else that shall have assumed
its name and usurped its place. The extension of Christianity is the extension and multiplication
as it were of that which constituted Christ himself--it is the conversion of men into his image--or
else it is nothing. Then, when this shall be done, what a paradise of peace, and holiness,
and love, will not the earth be! Surely, to be used as an instrument in accomplishing such
result, one may well regard as an honor and privilege, and be ready to bear and suffer much,
if need be, in fulfilling the great office.

I hope I shall not have wearied you by all this exactness. I strictly conform to your injunctions,
so that you can complain only of yourself.

We often wish that the time would allow us to escape to you, that we might witness your labors
and share them in the rebuilding and reëmbelishing of the city. Rome will never be a home to
Julia. Her affections are all in Syria. I can even better conceive of Zenobia becoming a Roman
than Julia. Farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Finding among the papers of Piso no letter giving any account of what took place immediately
after the meeting of the Christians, which, in his last letter, he has so minutely described,
I shall here supply, as I may, the deficiency; and I can do it at least with fidelity, since
I was present at the scenes of which I shall speak.

No one took a more lively interest in the condition and affairs of the Christians than Zenobia;
and it is with sorrow that I find among the records of Piso no mention made of conversations
had at Tibur while these events were transpiring, at which were present himself, and the princess
Julia, the Queen, and, more than once, Aurelian and Livia. While I cannot doubt that such record
was made, I have in vain searched for it among those documents which he intrusted to me.

It was by command of the Queen that on the day following that on which the Christians held
their assembly at the baths, I went to Rome for the very purpose to learn whatever I could,
both at the Gardens and abroad in the city, concerning the condition and probable fate of that
people, she desiring more precise information than could be gathered from any of the usual
sources of intelligence.

It was apparent to me as I entered the city, and penetrated to its more crowded parts, that
somewhat unusual had taken place, or was about to happen. There were more than the common appearances
of excitement among those whom I saw conversing and gesticulating at the corners of streets
or the doors of the public baths. This idle and corrupt population seemed to have less than
on other occasions to employ their hands, and so gave their time and their conversation to
one another, laying no restraint upon the quantity of either. It is an indisputable fact that
Rome exists to this day, for any one who will come into Italy may see it for himself, and he
cannot reject the testimony of his eyes and ears. But how it exists from year to year, or from
day to day, under such institutions, it would puzzle the wisest philosopher, I believe, to
tell. Me, who am no philosopher, it puzzles as often as I reflect upon it. I cannot learn the
causes that hold together in such apparent order and contentment so idle and so corrupt a people.
I have supposed it must be these, but they seem not sufficient: the Prætorian camp without
the walls, and the guard, in league with them, within, and the largesses and games proceeding
from the bounty of the Emperor. These last, though they are the real sources of their corruption
and must end in the very destruction of the city and people, yet, at present, operate to keep
them quiet and in order. So long as these bounties are dispensed, so long, such is our innate
love of idleness and pleasure, will the mass think it foolish to agitate any questions of right
or religion, or any other, by which they might be forfeited. Were these suddenly suspended,
all the power of the Prætorian cohorts, I suppose, could not keep peace in Rome. They were
now I found occupied by the affairs of the Christians, and waiting impatiently for the orders
which should next issue from the imperial will. The edicts published two days before gave them
no employment, nor promised much. They merely laid restraints upon the Christians, but gave
no liberty of assault and injury to the Roman.

'That does not satisfy the people,' said one to me, at the door of a shop, of whom I had made
some inquiry on the subject. 'More was looked for from the Emperor, for it is well known that
he intends the extremest measures, and most are of opinion that, before the day is out, new
edicts will be issued. Why he took the course he did of so uncommon moderation 'tis hard to
say. All the effect of it is to give the Christians opportunity to escape and hide themselves,
so that by the time the severer orders against them are published, it will be impossible to
carry them into execution.'

'Perhaps,' I said, 'it was after all his intention to give them a distant warning, that some
might, if they saw fit to do so, escape.'

'I do not believe that,' he replied; 'it will rather, I am of the opinion, be found to have
proceeded from the advice of Fronto and Varus, to give to the proceedings a greater appearance
of moderation; which shows into the hands of what owls the Emperor has suffered himself to
fall. Nobody ever expected moderation in Aurelian, nor do any but a few as bad as themselves
think these wretches deserve it. The only consequence of the present measures will be to increase
their swelling insolence and pride, thinking that Aurelian threatens but dares not execute.
Before another day, I trust, new edicts will show that the Emperor is himself. The life of
Rome hangs upon the death of these.'

Saying which, with a savage scowl, which showed how gladly he would turn executioner or tormentor
in such service, he turned and crossed the street.

I then sought the palace of Piso. I was received in the library, where I found the lady Julia
and Piso.

They greeted me as they ever did, rather as if I were a brother than but the servant of Zenobia.
But whatever belongs to her, were it but so much as a slave of the lowest office, would they
treat with affection at least, if not with reverence. After answering their inquiries after
the welfare of the Queen and Faustula, I made mine concerning the condition of the city and
the affairs of the Christians, saying, 'that Zenobia was anxious to learn what ground there
was, or whether any, to feel apprehension for the safety of that people?'--Piso said, 'that
now he did not doubt there was great ground for serious apprehension. It was believed by those
who possessed the best means of intelligence, that new edicts of a much severer character would
be issued before another day. But that Zenobia need be under no concern either as to himself
or Julia, since the Emperor in conversation with him as much as assured him that, whatever
might befal others, no harm should come to them.'

He then gave me an account of what the Christians had done in their assembly, agreeing with
what is now to be found in the preceding letter.

I then asked whether he thought that the Christian Macer would keep to the declaration he had
made, that he would to-day, the edicts notwithstanding, preach in the streets of Rome! He replied,
that he did not doubt that he would, and that if I wished to know what some of the Christians
were, and what the present temper of the people was towards them, I should do well to seek
him and hear him.'

'Stand by him, good Nicomachus,' said Julia, 'if at any moment you find that you can be of
service to him. I have often heretofore blamed him, but since this murder of Aurelia, and the
horrors of the dedication, I hold him warranted, and more than that, in any means he may use,
to rouse this guilty people. Perhaps it is only by the use of such remedies as he employs,
that the heart of Rome--hardened by ages of sin--can be made to feel. To the milder treatment
of Probus, and others like him, it seems for the most part utterly insensible and dead. At
least his sincerity, his zeal, and his courage, are worthy of all admiration.'

I assured her that I would befriend him if I could do so with any prospect of advantage, but
it was little that one could do against the fury of a Roman mob. I then asked Piso if he would
not accompany me; but he replied, that he had already heard Macer, and was, besides, necessarily
detained at home by other cares.

As there was no conjecturing in what part of the city this Christian preacher would harangue
the people, and neither the Princess nor Piso could impart any certain information, I gave
little more thought to it, but, as I left the palace on the Coelian, determined to seek the
gardens of Sallust, where, if I should not see Aurelian, I might at least pass the earlier
hours of the day in an agreeable retreat. I took the street that leads from the Coelian to
the Capitol Hill, as affording a pleasanter walk--if longer. On the way there, I observed well
the signs which were given in the manner and conversation of those whom I met, or walked with,
of the events which were near at hand. There is no better index of what a despotic ruler, and
yet at the same time a 'people's' despot, will do, than the present will of the people. It
was most apparent to me that they were impatient for some quick and vigorous action, no matter
how violent, against the Christians. Language the most ferocious met my ear. The moderation
and tardiness of the Emperor--of him who had in every thing else been noted for the rapidity
of his movements--were frequent subjects of complaint.

'It is most strange,' they said, 'that Aurelian should hesitate in this matter, in truth as
if he were afraid to move. Were it not for Fronto, it is thought that nothing would be done
after all. But this we may feel sure of, that if the Emperor once fairly begins the work of
extermination, he is not the man to stop half way. And there is not a friend of the ancient
institutions of religion, but who says that their very existence depends upon--not the partial
obstruction of this sect--but upon its actual and total extermination. Who does not know that
measures of opposition and resistance, which go but part way and then stop, through a certain
unwillingness as it were to proceed to extremes, do but increase the evil they aim to suppress.
Weeds that are but mown, come up afterwards only the more vigorously. Their very roots must
be torn up and then burned.' Such language was heard on all sides, uttered with utmost violence--of
voice and gesture.

I paused, among other curious and busy idlers, at the door of a smith's shop, which, as I passed
slowly by, presented a striking view of a vast and almost boundless interior, blazing with
innumerable fires, where laborers half naked--and seeming as if fire themselves, from the reflection
from their steaming bodies of the red glare of the furnaces--stood in groups, some drawing
forth the bars of heated metal and holding them, while others wielding their cyclopean hammers
made the anvils and the vast interior ring with the blows they gave. All around the outside
of the shop and in separate places within stood the implements and machines of various kinds
which were either made, or were in the process of being put together. Those whom I joined were
just within the principal entrance looking upon a fabric of iron consisting of a complicated
array of wheels and pulleys, to which the workmen were just in the act of adding the last pieces.
The master of the place now approaching and standing with us, while he gave diverse orders
to the men, I said to him,

'What new device may this be? The times labor with new contrivances by which to assist the
laborer in his art, and cause iron to do what the arm has been accustomed to perform. But after
observing this with care I can make nothing of it. It seems not designed to aid any manufacture
of which I have any knowledge.'

The master looked at me with a slighting expression of countenance as much as to say 'you are
a wise one! You must have just emerged from the mountains of Helvetia, or the forests of the
Danube.' But he did not content himself with looks.

'This, sir?' said he. 'This, if you would know it, is a rack--a common instrument of torture--used
in all the prisons of the empire, the use of which is to extract truth from one who is unwilling
to speak except compelled; or, sometimes, when death is thought too slight a punishment, to
give it an edge with, just as salt and pepper are thrown into a fresh wound. Some crimes, you
must know, were too softly dealt with, were a sharp axe the only instrument employed. Cæsar!
just bring some wires of a good thickness, and we will try this. Now shall you see precisely
how it would fare with your own body, were you on this iron frame and Varus standing where
I am. There,--Cæsar having in a few moments brought the wires--the body you perceive is confined
in this manner.--You observe there can be no escape and no motion. Now at the word of the judge,
this crank is turned. Do you see the effect upon the wire? Imagine it your body and you will
have a lively idea of the instrument. Then at another wink or word from Varus, these are turned,
and you see that another part of the body, the legs or arms as it may be, are subjected to
the same force as this wire, which as the fellow keeps turning you see--strains, and straightens,
and strains, till--crack!--there!--that is what we call a rack. A most ingenious contrivance
and of great use. This is going up within the hour to the hall of the Prefect.'

'It seems,' I remarked, 'well contrived indeed for its object. And what,' I asked, 'are these
which stand here? Are they for the same or a similar purpose?'

'Yes--these, sir, are different and yet the same. They are all for purposes of torture, but
they vary infinitely in the ingenuity with which they severally inflict pain and death. That
is esteemed in Rome the most perfect instrument which, while it inflicts the most exquisite
torments, shall at the same time not early, assail that which is a vital part, but, you observe,
prolong life to the utmost. Some, of an old-fashioned structure, with a clumsy and bungling
machinery--here are some sent to me as useless--long before the truth could be extracted, or
much more pain inflicted than would accompany beheading, destroyed the life of the victim.
Those which I build--and I build for the State--are not to be complained of in that way. Varus
is curious enough, I can assure you, in such things. All these that you see here, of whatever
form or make, are for him and the hall of justice. They have been all refitted and repaired--or
else they are new.'

'How is it possible,' I asked, 'so many could be required in one place?'

'Surely,' said the master, 'you must just have dropt down in Rome from Britain, or Scythia,
or the moon! Didst ever hear of a people called Galilean or Christian? Perhaps the name is
new to you.'

'No, I have heard it.'

'Well, these are for them. As you seem new in the city and to our Roman ways, walk a little
farther in and I will show you others, which are for the men and the boys at such time as the
slaughter of this people shall become general. For you must know,--although it is not got widely
abroad yet--that by and by the whole city is to be let loose upon them. That is the private
plan of the Emperor. Every good citizen, it will be expected, will do his share in the work,
till Rome shall be purged. Aurelian does nothing by halves. It is in view of such a state of
things that I have prepared an immense armory--if I may call it so--of every sort of cheap
iron tool--I have the more costly also--to meet the great demand that will be made. Here they
are! commend now my diligence, my patriotism, and my foresight! Some of my craft will not engage
in this work: but it exactly jumps with my humor. Any that you shall choose of these, sir,
you shall have cheap, and they shall be sent to your lodgings.'

I expressed my gratitude, but declined the offer.

After wandering a little longer around the huge workshop, I took my leave of its humane master,
still entreating me to purchase, and, as I entered again the street, turned towards the capitol.
My limbs were sympathising with those wires throughout the rest of the day.

I had forgotten Macer, and almost my object in coming abroad, and was revolving various subjects
in my mind, my body only being conscious of the shocks which now and then I received from persons
meeting or passing me, when I became conscious of a sudden rush along the street in the direction
of the capitol, which was now but a furlong from where I was. I was at once awake. The people
began to run, and I ran with them by instinct. At length it came into my mind to ask why we
were running? One near me replied,

'O, it's only Macer the Christian, who, 'tis said, in spite of the edict, has just made for
the steps of the capitol, followed by a large crowd.'

On the instant I outstripped my companion, and turning quickly the corner, where the street
in which I was crossed the hill, I there beheld an immense multitude gathered around the steps
of the capitol, and the tall form of Macer just ascending them. Resolved to be near him, I
struggled and forced my way into the mass till I found myself so far advanced that I could
both hear and be heard by him, if I should find occasion to speak, and see the expression of
his countenance. It was to me, as he turned round toward the people, the most extraordinary
countenance I ever beheld. It seemed as if once it had been fiercer than the fiercest beast
of the forest, while through that was now to be discerned the deep traces of grief, and an
expression which seemed to say, "I and the world have parted company. I dwell above." His two
lives and his two characters were to be read at once in the strong and deep-sunk lines of a
face that struck the beholder at once with awe, with admiration, and compassion.

The crowd was restless and noisy; heaving to and fro like the fiery mass of a boiling crater.
A thousand exclamations and imprecations filled the air. I thought it doubtful whether the
rage which seemed to fill a great proportion of those around me would so much as permit the
Christian to open his mouth. It seemed rather as if he would at once be dragged from where
he stood to the Prefect's tribunal, or hurled from the steps and sacrificed at once to the
fury of the populace. But, as the cries of his savage enemies multiplied, the voices of another
multitude were lifted up in his behalf, which were so numerous and loud, that they had the
effect of putting a restraint upon the others. It was evident that Macer could not be assailed
without leading to a general combat. All this while Macer stood unmoved, and calm as the columns
of the capitol itself--waiting till the debate should be ended and the question decided--a
question of life or death to him. Upon the column immediately on his right hand hung, emblazoned
with gold, and beautiful with all the art of the chirographer, the edict of Aurelian. It was
upon parchment, within a brazen frame.

Soon as quiet was restored, so that any single voice could be heard, one who was at the foot
of the steps and near the preacher cried out to him,

'Well, old fellow, begin! thy time is short.'

'Young man,' he replied, 'I was once old in sin, for which God forgive me!--now I am old in
the love of Christ, for which God be thanked!--but in years I am but forty. As for time!--I
think only of eternity.'

'Make haste, Macer!' cried another voice from the crowd. 'Varus will soon be here.'

'I believe you,' replied the soldier; 'but I am ready for him. I love life no longer than I
can enjoy free speech. If I may not now and here speak out every thought of my heart, and the
whole truth in Christ, then would I rather die; and whether I die in my own bed, or upon the
iron couch of Varus, matters little. Romans!' turning now and addressing the crowd, 'the Emperor
in his edict tells me not to preach to you. Not to preach Christ in Rome, neither within a
church nor in the streets. Such is this edict. Shall I obey him? When Christ says, 'Go forth
and preach the gospel to every creature,' shall I give ear to a Roman Emperor, who bids me
hold my peace? Not so, not so, Romans. I love God too well, and Christ too well, and you too
well, to heed such bidding. I love Aurelian too, I have served long under him, and he was ever
good to me. He was a good as well as great general, and I loved him. I love him now, but not
so well as these; not so well as you. And if I obeyed this edict, it would show that I loved
him better than you, and better than these, which would be false. If I obeyed this edict I
should never speak to you again of this new religion, as you call it. I should leave you all
to perish in your sins, without any of that knowledge, or faith, or hope in Christ, which would
save you from them, and form you after the image of God, and after death carry you up to dwell
with him and with just men forever and ever. I should then, indeed, show that I hated you,
which I can never do. I love you and Rome I cannot tell how much--as much as a child ever loved
a mother, or children one another. And therefore it is that no power on earth--nor above it,
nor under it--no power, save that of God, shall hinder me from declaring to you the doctrine
which I think you need, nay, without which your souls will perish and dwell for ever and ever,
not with God, but in fires eternal of the lowest hell. For what can your gods do for you? what
are they doing? They lift you not up to themselves--they push you down rather to those fires.
Christ, O Romans, if you will receive him, will save you from them, and from those raging fires
of sorrow and remorse, which here on earth do constitute a hell hot as any that burns below.
It is your sins which kindle those fires, and with which Christ wages war--not with you. It
is your sins with which I wage war here in the streets of Rome, not with you. Only repent of
your sins, Romans, and believe in Christ the son of God, and O how glorious and happy were
then this great and glorious city. I have told you before, and I tell you now, your vices are
undermining the foundations of this great empire. There is no power to cure these but in Jesus
Christ. And when I know this, shall I cease to preach Christ to you because a man, a man like
myself, forbids me? Would you not still prepare for a friend or a child the medicine that would
save his life, though you were charged by another never so imperiously to forbear? The gospel
is the divine medicament that is to heal all your sicknesses, cure all your diseases, remove
all your miseries, cleanse all your pollutions, correct all your errors, confirm within you
all necessary truth. And when it is this healing draught for which your souls cry aloud, for
which they thirst even unto death, shall I the messenger of God, sent in the name of his Son
to bear to your lips the cup, of which if you once drink you will live forever, withhold from
you that cup, or dash it to the ground? Shall I, a mediator between God and man, falter in
my speech, and my tongue hang palsied in my mouth, because Aurelian speaks? What to me, O Romans,
is the edict of a Roman Emperor? Down, down, accursed scrawl! nor insult longer both God and man.'

And saying that, he reached forth his hand, and seizing the parchment wrenched it from its
brazen frame, and rending it to shreds strewed them abroad upon the air.

It was done in the twinkling of an eye. At first, horror-struck at the audacity of the deed,
and while it was doing, the crowd stood still and mute, bereft, as it were, of all power to
move or speak. But soon as the fragments of the parchment came floating along upon the air,
their senses returned, and the most violent outcries, curses, and savage yells rose from the
assembled multitude, and at the same moment a movement was made to rush upon the Christian,
with the evident purpose to sacrifice him on the spot to the offended majesty of the empire.
I supposed that their purpose would be easily and instantly accomplished, and that whatever
I might attempt to do in his defence would be no more than a straw thrown in the face of a
whirlwind. But here a new wonder revealed itself. For no sooner was it evident, from the rage
and tumultuous tossings of the crowd, and their ferocious cries, that the last momenta of Macer
had arrived, than it was apparent that all in the immediate neighborhood of the building, on
whose steps he stood, were either Christians, or Romans, who, like myself, were well disposed
towards that people, and would promptly join them in their defence of Macer. These, and they
amounted to a large and dense mass, at once, as those cries arose, sent forth others as shouts
of defiance, and facing outwards made it known that none could assail Macer but by first assailing
them.

I could not doubt that it was a preconcerted act by which the Christian was thus surrounded
by his friends--not, as I afterward found, with his knowledge, but done at their own suggestion--so
that if difficulty should arise, they, by a show of sufficient power, might rescue him, whom
all esteemed in spite of his errors, and also serve by their presence to deter him from any
further act, or the use of any language, that should give needless offence to either the Prefect
or his friends. Their benevolent design was in part frustrated by the sudden, and, as it seemed,
unpremeditated movement of Macer in tearing down the edict. But they still served as a protection
against the immediate assaults of the excited and enraged mob.

But their services were soon ended, by the interference of a power with which it was in vain
to contend. For when the populace had given over for a moment their design, awed by the formidable
array of numbers about the person of Macer, he again, having never moved from the spot where
he had stood, stretched out his long arm as if he would continue what he had scarcely as yet
begun, and to my surprise the people, notwithstanding what had occurred, seemed not indisposed
to hear him. But just at that moment--just as a deep silence had at length succeeded the late
uproar--the distant sound, in the direction of the Prefect's, of a troop of horse in rapid
movement over the pavements, caught the ears of the people. No one doubted for a moment what
it signified.

'Your hour is come, Macer,' cried a voice from the crowd.

'It can never come too soon,' answered the preacher, 'in the service of God. But remember,
Roman citizens, what I have told you, that it is for you and for Rome, that I incur the wrath
of the wicked Varus, and may so soon at his hands meet the death of a Christian witness.'

As Macer spoke, the Roman guard swept rapidly round a corner, and the multitude giving way
in every direction left him alone upon the spot where he had been standing. Regardless of life
and limb, the horse dashed through the flying crowds, throwing down many and trampling them
under foot, till they reached the Christian, who, undismayed and fearless, maintained his post.
There was little ceremony in their treatment of him. He was seized by a band of the soldiers,
his hands strongly bound behind him, and placed upon a horse--when, wheeling round again, the
troop at full speed vanished down the same avenue by which they had come, bearing their victim,
as we doubted not, to the tribunal of Varus.

Determined to see all I could, and the last if it must be so, of this undaunted spirit, I hastened
at my utmost speed in the wake of the flying troop. Little as I had heard or seen of this strange
man, I had become as deeply concerned in his fate as any could have been who had known him
more intimately, or believed both in him and with him. I know not what it was, unless it were
the signatures of sincerity, of child-like sincerity and truth stamped upon him, that so drew
me toward him, together with that expression of profound sadness, or rather of inward grief,
which, wherever we see it and in whomsoever, excites our curiosity and engages our sympathy.
He was to me a man who deserved a better fate than I feared he would meet. He seemed like one
who, under fortunate circumstances, might have been of the number of those great spirits whose
iron will and gigantic force of character bear down before them all opposition, and yoke nations
to their car. Of fear he evidently had no comprehension whatever. The rustling of the autumn
breeze in his gown alarmed him as much, as did the clang of those horses' hoofs upon the pavements,
though he so well knew it was the precursor of suffering and death.

With all the speed I could use I hurried to the hall of the Prefect. The crowds were pouring
in as I reached it, among whom I also rushed along and up the flights of steps, anxious only
to obtain an entrance and a post of observation, whence I could see and hear what should take
place. I soon entered the room of justice. Varus was not yet in his seat: but before it at
some little distance stood Macer, his hands still bound, and soldiers of the palace on either side.

I waited not long before Varus appeared at the tribunal; and following him, and placed near
him, Fronto, priest of the Temple of the Sun. Now, poor Christian! I thought within myself,
if it go not hard with thee it will not be for want of those who wish thee ill. The very Satan
of thy own faith was never worse than these. Fronto's cruel eyes were fixed upon him just as
a hungry tiger's are upon the unconscious victim upon whom he is about to spring. Varus seemed
as if he sat in his place to witness some holiday sport, drawing his box of perfume between
his fingers, or daintily adjusting the folds of his robe. When a few preliminary formalities
were gone through, Varus said, addressing one of the officials of the place,

'Whom have we here?'

'Noble Prefect, Macer the Christian.'

'And why stands he at my tribunal?' continued Varus.

'For a breach of the late edict of the Emperor, by which the Christians were forbidden to preach
either within their temples or abroad in the streets and squares.'

'Is that all?' asked the Prefect.

'Not only,' it was replied, 'hath he preached abroad in the streets, but he hath cast signal
contempt upon both the Emperor and the empire, in that he hath but now torn down from its brazen
frame the edict which he had first violated, and scattered it in fragments upon the streets.'

'If these things are so, doubtless he hath well earned his death. How is this, Galilean? dost
thou confess these crimes, or shall I call in other witnesses of thy guilt?'

'First,' replied Macer, 'will it please the Prefect to have these bonds removed? For the sake
of old fellowship let them be taken off, that, while my tongue is free to speak, my hands may
be free also. Else am I not a whole man.'

'Unbind them,' said the Prefect; 'let him have his humor. Yet shall we fit on other bracelets
anon that may not sit so easy.'

'Be that as it may,' answered the Christian; 'in the meanwhile I would stand thus. I thank
thee for the grace.'

'Now, Christian, once more if thou art ready. Is it the truth that hath been witnessed?'

'It is the truth,' replied Macer; 'and I thank God that it is so.'

'But knowest thou, Christian, that in saying that, thou hast condemned thyself to instant death?
Was not death the expressed penalty for violation of that law?'

'Truly it was,' answered Macer; 'and what is death to me?'

'I suppose death to be death,' replied Varus.

'Therein thou showest thyself to be in the same darkness as all the rest of this idolatrous
city. Death to the Christian, Prefect, is life! Crush me by thy engines, and in the twinkling
of an eye is my soul dwelling with God, and looking down with compassion upon thy stony heart.'

'Verily, Fronto,' said Varus, 'these Christians are an ingenious people. What a wonderful fancy
is this. But, Christian,' turning to Macer, 'it were a pity surely for thee to die. Thou hast
a family as I learn. Would not thy life be more to them than thy death?'

'Less,' said the Christian, 'a thousand fold! were it not a better vision to them of me crowned
with a victor's wreath and sitting with Christ, than dwelling here in this new Sodom, and drinking
in its pestilential air? The sight of me there would be to them a spring of comfort and a source
of strength which here I can never be.'

'But,' added the Prefect, 'it is but right that thou shouldst for the present, if it may be,
live here and take care of thy family. They will want thee.'

'God,' replied Macer, 'who feeds the birds of the air, and through all their wanderings over
the earth from clime to clime still brings them back to the accustomed home, will watch over
those whom I love, and bring them home. Such, Prefect, are the mercies of Rome toward us who
belong to Christ, that they will not be left long to bewail my loss.'

'Do thy family then hold with thee?' said Varus.

'Blessed be God, they do.'

'That is a pity--' responded the Prefect.

'Say not so, Varus; 'tis a joy and a triumph to me in this hour, and to them, that they are
Christ's.'

'Still,' rejoined the Prefect, 'I would willingly save thee, and make thee live: and there
is one way in which it may be done, and thou mayest return in joy to thy home.'

'Let me then know it,' said Macer.

'Renounce Christ, Macer, and sacrifice; and thy life is thine, and honor too.'

Macer's form seemed to dilate to more than its common size, his countenance seemed bursting
with expression as he said,

'Renounce Christ? save life by renouncing Christ? How little, Varus, dost thou know what a
Christian is! Not though I might sit in thy seat or Aurelian's, or on the throne of a new universe,
would I renounce him. To Christ, Varus, do I owe it that I am not now what I was, when I dwelt
in the caves of the Flavian. To Christ do I owe it that I am not now what I was when in the
ranks of Aurelian. To Christ do I owe it that my soul, once steeped in sin as thy robe in purple
dye, is now by him cleansed and, as I trust, thoroughly purged. To Christ do I owe it that
once worshipping the dumb idols of Roman superstition, I now bow down to the only living God--'
'Away with him to the tormentors!' came from an hundred voices--'to Christ do I owe it, O Prefect,
that my heart is not now as thine, or his who sits beside thee, or as that of these, hungering
and thirsting--never after righteousness--but for the blood of the innocent. Shall I then renounce
Christ? and then worship that ancient adulterer, Jupiter greatest and best?--' The hall here
rang with the ferocious cries of those who shouted--

'Give him over to us!'--'To the rack with him!'--'Tear out the tongue of the blaspheming Galilean!'

'Romans,' cried Varus, rising from his chair, 'let not your zeal for the gods cause you to
violate the sanctity of this room of Justice. Fear not but Varus, who, as you well know, is
a lover of the gods, his country, and the city, will well defend their rights and honors against
whoever shall assail them.'

He then turned to Macer and said,

'I should ill perform my duty to thee, Christian, did I spare any effort to bring thee to a
better mind--ill should I perform it for Rome did I not use all the means by the State entrusted
to me to save her citizens from errors that, once taking root and growing up to their proper
height, would soon overshadow, and by their poisonous neighborhood kill, that faith venerable
through a thousand years, and of all we now inherit from our ancestors of greatest and best,
the fruitful and divine spring.'

'There, Romans, spoke a Roman,' exclaimed Fronto.

As Varus ended--at a sign and a word from him, what seemed the solid wall of the room in which
we were, suddenly flew up upon its screaming pulleys, and revealed another apartment black
as night, save here and there where a dull torch shed just light enough to show its great extent,
and set in horrid array before us, engines of every kind for tormenting criminals, each attended
by its half-naked minister, ready at a moment's warning to bind the victim, and put in motion
the infernal machinery. At this sight a sudden faintness overspread my limbs, and I would willingly
have rushed from the hall--but it was then made impossible. And immediately the voice of the
Prefect was again heard:

'Again, Christian, with Rome's usual mercy, I freely offer to thee thy life, simply on the
condition, easily fulfilled by thee, for it asks but one little word from thy lips, that thou
do, for thy own sake and for the sake of Rome, which thou sayest thou lovest, renounce Christ
and thy faith.'

'I have answered thee once, O Prefect; dost thou think so meanly of me as to suppose that what
but now I affirmed, I will now deny, and only for this show of iron toys and human demons set
to play them? It is not of such stuff Aurelian's men are made, much less the soldiers of the
cross. For the love I bear to Rome and Christ, and even thee, Varus, I choose to die.'

'Be assured, Christian, I will not spare thee.'

'I ask it not, Prefect--do thy worst--and the worst is but death, which is life.'

'Pangs that shall keep thee hours dying,' cried the Prefect--'thy body racked and rent--torn
piecemeal one part from another--this is worse than death. Bethink thee well. Do not believe
that Varus will relent.'

'That were the last thing to find faith with one who knows him as well as Macer does,' replied
the Christian.

A flush of passion passed over the face of Varus. But he proceeded in the same even tone,

'Is thy election made, Macer?'

'It is made.'

'Slaves,' cried the Prefect, 'away with him to the rack, and ply it well.'

'Yes,' repeated Pronto, springing with eager haste from his seat, that he might lose nothing
of what was to be seen or heard, 'away with him to the rack, and ply it well.'

Unmoved and unresisting, his face neither pale nor his limbs trembling, did Macer surrender
himself into the hands of those horrid ministers of a cruel and bloody faith, who then hastily
approached him, and seizing him dragged him toward their worse than hell. Accomplished in their
art, for every day is it put to use, Macer was in a moment thrown down and lashed to the iron
bars; when, each demon having completed the preparation, he stood leaning upon his wheel for
a last sign from the Prefect. It was instantly given, and while the breath even of every being
in the vast hall was suspended, through an intense interest in the scene, the creating of the
engine, as it began to turn, sounded upon the brain like thunder. Not a groan nor a sigh was
heard from the sufferer. The engine turned till it seemed as if any body or substance laid
upon it must have been wrenched asunder. Then it stopt. And the minutes counted to me like
hours or ages ere the word was given, and the wheels unrestrained flew back again to their
places. Macer was then unbound. He at first lay where he was thrown upon the pavement. But
his life was yet strong within his iron frame. He rose at length upon his feet, and was again
led to the presence of his judges. His eye had lost nothing of its wild fire, nor his air any
thing of its lofty independence.

Varus again addressed him.

'Christian, you have felt what there is in Roman justice. Reject not again what Roman mercy
again offers thee--life freely, honor too, and office, if thou wilt return once more to the
bosom of the fond mother who reared thee.'

'Yes,' said Fronto, 'thy mother who reared thee! Die not with the double guilt of apostacy
and ingratitude upon thy soul.'

'Varus,' said Macer, 'art thou a fool, a very fool, to deem that thy word can weigh more with
me than Christ? Make not thyself a laughingstock to me and such Christians as may be here.
The torments of thy importunity are worse to me than those of thy engines.'

'I wish thee well, Macer; 'tis that which makes me thus a fool,'

'So, Varus, does Satan wish his victim well, to whom he offers his luscious baits. But what
is it when the bait is swallowed, and hell is all that has been gained? What should I gain,
but to live with thee, O greater fool?'

'Think, Macer, of thy wife and children.'

At those names, Macer bent his head and folded his hands upon his breast, and tears rolled
down his cheeks. Till then there had been, as it seemed, a blessed forgetfulness of all but
himself and the scene before him. Varus, misinterpreting this his silence, and taking it for
the first sign of repentance, hastily cried out,

'There is the altar, Macer.--Slave! hold to him the sacred libation; he will now pour it out.'

Instantly a slave held out to him a silver ladle filled with wine.

Macer at the same instant struck it with his sinewy arm and sent it whirling to the ceiling.

'Bind him again to the rack,' cried the Prefect, leaping from his seat; 'and let him have it
till the nerves break.'

Macer was again seized and stretched upon the iron bed--this time upon another, of different
construction, and greater power. Again the infernal machine was worked by the naked slaves,
and, as it was wound up, inflicting all that it was capable of doing without absolutely destroying
life, groans and screams of fierce agony broke from the suffering Christian. How long our ears
were assailed by those terrific cries, I cannot say. They presently died away, as I doubted
not, only because Macer himself had expired under the torment. When they had wholly ceased,
the engine was reversed and Macer again unbound. He fell lifeless upon the floor. Varus, who
had sat the while conversing with Fronto, now said,

'Revive him, and return him hither.'

Water was then thrown upon him, and powerful drinks were forced down his throat. They produced
in a little while their intended effect, and Macer gave signs of returning life. He presently
gazed wildly around him, and came gradually to a consciousness of where and what he was. His
limbs refused their office, and he was supported and partly lifted to the presence of Varus.

'Now, Galilean,' cried Varus, 'again, how is it with thee?'

'Better than with thee, I trust in God.'

'Wilt thou now sacrifice?'

'I am myself, O Varus, this moment a sacrifice, well pleasing and acceptable to the God whom
I worship, and the Master whom I serve.'

'Why, Varus,' said Fronto, 'do we bear longer his insults and impieties? Let me strike him
dead.' And he moved his hand as if to grasp a concealed weapon, with which to do it.

'Nay, nay, hold, Fronto! let naught be done in haste or passion, nor in violation of the law,
but all calmly and in order. We act for those who are not present as well as for ourselves.'

A voice from a dark extremity of the room shouted out,

'It is Macer, O Prefect, who acts for us.'

The face of Macer brightened up, as if he had suddenly been encompassed by a legion of friends.
It was the first token he had received, that so much as one heart in the whole assembly was
beating with his. He looked instantly to the quarter whence the voice came, and then, turning
to the Prefect, said,

'Yes, Varus, I am now and here preaching to the people of Rome, though I speak never a word.
'Tis a sermon that will fall deeper into the heart than ten thousand spoken ones.'

The Prefect commanded that he who had spoken should be brought before him. But upon the most
diligent search he could not be found.

'Christian,' said Varus, 'I have other pains in store, to which what thou hast as yet suffered
is but as the scratching of the lion's paw. It were better not to suffer them. They will leave
no life in thee. Curse Christ--'tis but a word--and live.'

Macer bent his piercing eye upon the Prefect, but answered not.

'Curse Christ, and live.'

Macer was still silent.

'Bring in then,' cried the Prefect, 'your pincers, rakes and shells; and we will see what they
may have virtue to bring forth.'

The black messengers of death hastened at the word from their dark recesses, loaded with those
new instruments of torture, and stood around the miserable man.

'Now, Macer,' said Varus once more, 'acknowledge Jupiter Greatest and Best, and thou shalt live.'

Macer turned round to the people, and with his utmost voice cried out,

'There is, O Romans, but One God; and the God of Christ is he--'

No sooner had he uttered those words than Fronto exclaimed,

'Ah! hah! I have found thee then! This is the voice, thrice accursed! that came from the sacred
Temple of the Sun! This, Romans, is the god whose thunder turned you pale.'

'Had it been my voice alone, priest, that was heard that day, I had been accursed indeed. I
was out the humble instrument of him I serve--driven by his spirit. It was the voice of God,
not of man.'

'These,' said Fronto, 'are the Christian devices, by which they would lead blindfold into their
snares you, Romans, and your children. May Christ ever employ in Rome a messenger cunning and
skilful as this prating god, and Hellenism will have naught to fear.'

'And,' cried Macer, 'let your priests be but like Fronto, and the eyes of the blindest driveler
of you all will be unsealed. Ask Fronto into whose bag went the bull's heart, that on the day
of dedication could not be found--

'Thou liest, Nazarene--'

'Ply him with your pincers,' cried Varus,--and the cruel irons were plunged into his flesh.
Yet he shrunk not--nor groaned; but his voice was again heard in the midst of the torture,

'Ask him from whose robe came the old and withered heart, the sight of which so unmanned Aurelian--'

'Dash in his mouth,' shrieked Fronto, 'and stop those lies blacker than hell.'

But Macer went on, while the irons tore him in every part.

'Ask him too for the instructions and the bribes given to the haruspices, and to those who
led the beasts up to the altar. Though I die, Romans, I have left the proof of all this in
good hands. I stood the while where I saw it all.'

'Thou liest, slave,' cried the furious priest; and at the same moment springing forward and
seizing an instrument from the hands of one of the tormentors, he struck it into the shoulder
of Macer, and the lacerated arm fell from the bleeding trunk. A piercing shriek confessed the
inflicted agony.

'Away with him!' cried Varus, 'away with him to the rack, and tear him joint from joint!'

At the word he was borne bleeding away, but not insensible nor speechless. All along as he
went his voice was heard calling upon God and Christ, and exhorting the people to abjure their
idolatries.

He was soon stretched again upon the rack, which now quickly finished its work; and the Christian
Macer, after sufferings which I knew not before that the human frame could so long endure and
live, died a martyr to the faith he had espoused; the last words which were heard throughout
the hall being these;

'Jesus, I die for thee, and my death is sweet!'

When it was announced to the Prefect that Macer was dead, he exclaimed,

'Take the carcass of the Christian dog and throw it upon the square of the Jews: there let
the dogs devour it.'

Saying which, he rose from his seat, and, accompanied by Fronto, left by the same way he had
before entered the hall of judgment.

Soon as he had withdrawn from the apartment, the base rabble that had filled it, and had glutted
their savage souls upon the horrors of that scene, cried out tumultuously for the body of the
Christian, which, when it was gladly delivered to them by those who had already had enough
of it, they thrust hooks into, and rushed out dragging it toward the place ordained for it
by the Prefect. As they came forth into the streets the mob increased to an immense multitude
of those, who seemed possessed of the same spirit. And they had not together proceeded far,
filling the air with their cries and uttering maledictions of every form against the unhappy
Christians, before a new horror was proclaimed by that blood-thirsty crew. For one of them,
suddenly springing up upon the base of one of the public statues, whence he could be heard
by the greater part, cried out,

'To the house of Macer! To the house of Macer!'

'Aye, aye,' shouted another, 'to the house of Macer, in the ruins behind the shop of Demetrius!'

'To the house of Macer!' arose then in one deafening shout from the whole throng; and, filled
with this new frenzy, maddened like wild beasts at the prospect of fresh blood, they abandoned
there, where they had dragged it, the body of Macer, and put new speed into their feet in their
haste to arrive at the place of the expected sport. I knew not then where the ruins were, or
it was possible that I might have got in advance of the mob, and given timely warning to the
devoted family. Neither did I know any to whom to apply to discharge such a duty. While I deplored
this my helplessness and weakness, I suffered myself to be borne along with the rushing crowd.
Their merciless threats, their savage language, better becoming barbarians than a people like
this, living in the very centre of civilization, filled me with an undefinable terror. It seemed
to me that within reach of such a populace, no people were secure of property or life.

'The Christians,' said one, 'have had their day and it has been a long one, too long for Rome.
Let its night now come.'

'Yes,' said another, 'we will all have a hand in bringing it on. Let every Roman do his share,
and they may be easily rooted out.'

'I understand,' said another, 'that it is agreed upon, that whatever the people attempt after
their own manner, as in what we are now about, they are not to be interfered with. We are to
have free pasturage, and feed where, and as we list.'

'Who could suppose,' said the first, 'it should be different? It is well known that formerly,
though there has been no edict to the purpose, the people have not only been permitted, they
have been expected, to do their part of the business without being asked or urged. I dare say
if we can do up this family of--who is it?'

'Macer, the Christian Macer,' interrupted the other;--'we shall receive the thanks of Aurelian,
though they be not spoken, as heartily as Varus. That was a tough old fellow though. They say
he has served many years under the Emperor, and when he left the army was in a fair way to
rise to the highest rank. Curses upon those who made a Christian of him! It is they, not Varus,
who have put him on the rack. But see! are not these the ruins we seek? I hope so, for I have
run far enough.'

'Yes,' replied his companion; 'these are the old baths! Now for it!'

The crowd thereupon abandoning the streets, poured itself like an advancing flood among the
ruins, filling all the spaces and mounting up upon all the still standing fragments of walls
and columns. It was not at all evident where the house of the Christian was. It all seemed
a confusion of ruins and of dead wall.

'Who can show us,' cried out one who took upon himself the office of leader, 'where the dwelling
of Macer is?'

'I can,' responded the slender voice of a little boy; 'for I have often been there before they
became Christians.'

'Show us then, my young urchin; come up hither. Now, lead the way, and we will follow.'

'You need go no further,' replied the boy; 'that is it?'

'That? It is but a stone wall!'

'Still it is the house,' replied the child; 'but the door is of stone as well as the walls.'

At that the crowd began to beat upon the walls, and shout to those who were within to come
forth. They had almost wearied themselves out, and were inclined to believe that the boy had
given them false information, when, upon a sort of level roof above the projecting mass which
served as the dwelling, a female form suddenly appeared, and, advancing to the edge--not far
above, yet beyond, the reach of the mob below--she beckoned to them with her hand, as if she
would speak to them.

The crowd, soon as their eyes caught this new object, ceased from their tumultuous cries and
prepared to hear what she who approached them thus might have to say. Some, indeed, immediately
began to hurl missiles, but they were at once checked by others, who insisted that she should
have liberty to speak. And these wretches would have been more savage still than I believed
them, if the fair girl who stood there pleading to them had not found some favor. Hers was
a bright and sparkling countenance, that at once interested the beholder. Deep blushes spread
over her face and bosom, while she stood waiting the pleasure of the heaving multitude before her.

'Ah! hah!' cried one; 'who is she but the dancing girl Ælia! she is a dainty bit for us. Who
would have thought that she was the daughter of a Christian!'

'I am sorry for her,' cried another; 'she is too pretty to be torn in pieces. We must save her.'

'Say on! say on!' now cried one of the leaders of the crowd as silence succeeded; 'we will
hear you.'

'Whom do you seek?' then asked Ælia, addressing him who had spoken.

'You know well enough, my pretty girl,' replied the other. 'We seek the house and family of
Macer the Christian. Is this it? and are you of his household?'

'This,' she replied, 'is the house of Macer, and I am his daughter. My mother with all her
children are below. And now why do you seek us thus?'

'We seek,' replied the savage, 'not only you but your lives. All you have to do is to unbar
this door and let us in.'

Though Ælia could have supposed that they were come for nothing else, yet the brutal announcement
of the terrible truth drove the color from her cheeks, and caused her limbs to tremble. Yet
did it not abate her courage, nor take its energy from her mind.

'Good citizens and friends,' said she, 'for I am sure I must have some friends among you, why
should you do us such wrong? We are poor and humble people, and have never had the power, if
the will had been ours, to injure you. Leave us in safety, and, if you require it, we will
abandon our dwelling and even our native Rome--for we are all native Romans.'

'That, my young mistress, will not serve our turn. Are you not, as you said, the family of
the Christian Macer?'

'Yes, we are.'

'Well,' answered the other, 'that is the reason we seek you, and mean to have you.'

'But,' replied the girl, 'there must be many among you who would not willingly harm either
Macer or anything that is his. Macer is not only a Christian, Romans, but he is a good warm-hearted
patriot as ever was born within the compass of these walls. Brutus himself never loved freedom
nor hated tyrants more than he.'

'That's little to the purpose now-a-days,' cried one from the crowd.

'There is not a single possession he has,' continued Ælia, 'save only his faith as a Christian,
which he would not surrender for the love he bears to Rome and to everything that is Roman.
Ever since he was strong enough to draw and wield a sword, has he been fighting for you the
battles of our country. If you have seen him, you have seen how cruelly the weapons of the
enemy have hacked him. On every limb are there scars of wounds received in battle; and twice,
once in Gaul and once in Asia, has he been left for dead upon the field. It was once in Syria,
when the battle raged at its highest, and Carinus was suddenly beset by more than he could
cope with, and had else fallen into the enemy's hands a prisoner, or been quickly despatched,
that Macer came up and by his single arm saved his general--'

'A great pity that,' cried many from the crowd.

'Macer,' continued Ælia, 'only thought that Carinus then represented Rome, and that his life,
whatever it was, and however worthless in itself, was needful for Rome, and he threw himself
into the breach even as he would have done for Aurelian or his great captain Probus. Was not
his virtue the greater for that? Was he to feed his own humor, and leave Carinus to perish,
when his country by that might receive detriment? Macer has never thought of himself. Had he
been ambitious as some, he had now been where Mucapor is. But when in the army he always put
by his own interests. The army, its generals and Rome were all in all with him, himself, nothing.
How, citizens, can you wish to do him harm? or anything that is his? And, even as a Christian--for
which you reproach him and now seek him--it is still the same. Believe me when I say, that
it is because of his love of you and Rome that he would make you all as he is. He honestly
thinks that it is the doctrine of Christ, which can alone save Rome from the destruction which
her crimes are drawing down upon her. He has toiled from morning till night, all day and all
night--harder than he ever did upon his marches either in Africa or in Asia--that you might
be made to know what this religion of Christ is; what it means; what it will bestow upon you
if you will receive it; and what it will save you from. And he would not scruple to lose his
life, if by so doing he could give any greater efficacy to the truth in which he believes.
I would he were here now, Romans, to plead his own cause with you. I know you would so esteem
his honesty, and his warm Roman heart, that you would be more ready to serve than to injure him.'

Pity stood in some eyes, but impatience and anger in more.

'Be not so sure of that,' cried he who had spoken before. 'No true Roman can love a Christian.
Christians are the worst enemies of the state. As for Macer, say no more of him; he is already
done for. All you have to do is to set open the door.'

'What say you of Macer?' cried the miserable girl, wringing her hands. 'Has any evil befallen him?'

'What he will never recover from,' retorted the barbarian. 'Varus has just had him on one of
his iron playthings, and his body we have but now left in the street yonder. So hasten.'

'O worse than demons to kill so good a man,' cried Ælia, the tears rolling down her cheeks.
'But if he is dead, come and take us too. We wish not now to live; and ready as he was to die
for Christ, so ready are we also. Cease your blows; and I will open the door.'

But her agency in that office was no longer needed. A huge timber had been brought in the meantime
from the ruins, and, plied by an hundred hands with noisy uproar, the stone door soon gave
way, just as Ælia descended and the murderous crew rushed in.

The work of death was in part quickly done. The sons of Macer, who, on the uproar, had instantly
joined their mother in spite of all the entreaties of Demetrius, were at once despatched, and
dragged forth by ropes attached to their feet. The two youngest, transfixed by spears, were
seen borne aloft as bloody standards of that murderous rout. The mother and the other children,
placed in a group in the midst of the multitude, were made to march on, the savages themselves
being divided as to what should be their fate. Some cried out, 'To the Tiber!'--some, 'Crucify
them beyond the walls!--others, 'Give 'em the pavements!' But the voice of one more ingenious
in cruelty than the rest prevailed.

'To the square by Hanno's with them!'

This proposition filled them with delight.

'To Hanno's! to Hanno's!' resounded on all sides. And away rushed the infuriated mass to their
evil sport.

'And who is Hanno?' I asked of one near me.

'Hanno? know you not Hanno? He is brother of Sosia the gladiator, and breeds dogs for the theatres.
You shall soon see what a brood he will turn out. There is no such breeder in Rome as he.'

Sick at heart as I was, I still pressed on, resolved to know all that Christian heroism could
teach me. We were soon at the square, capable of holding on its borders not only thousands
but tens of thousands, to which number it seemed as if the throng had now accumulated. Hanno's
extensive buildings and grounds were upon one side of the square, to which the people now rushed,
calling out for the great breeder to come forth with his pack.

He was not slow in obeying the summons. He himself appeared, accompanied, as on the day when
Piso saw him on the Capitol Hill, by his two dogs Nero and Sylla. After first stipulating with
the ringleaders for a sufficient remuneration, he proceeded to order the game. He was at first
for separating the victims, but they implored to be permitted to suffer together, and so much
mercy was shown them. They were then set together in the centre of the square, while the multitude
disposed themselves in an immense circle around--the windows of the buildings and the roofs
of all the neighboring dwellings being also thronged with those who both looked on and applauded.
Before the hounds were let loose, Hanno approached this little band, standing there in the
midst and clinging to one another, and asked them,

'If they had anything to say, or any message to deliver, for he would faithfully perform what
they might enjoin.'

The rest weeping, Ælia answered, 'that she wished to say a few words to the people who stood
around.'

'Speak then,' replied Hanno, 'and you shall not be disturbed.'

She then turned toward the people, and said. 'I can wish you, Romans, before I die, no greater
good than that, like me and those who are with me, you may one day become Christians. For you
will then be incapable of inflicting such sufferings and wrongs upon any human being. The religion
of Jesus will not suffer you to do otherwise than love others as you do yourselves; that is
the great Christian rule. Be assured that we now die, as Christians, in full faith in Christ
and in joyful hope of living with him, so soon as these mortal bodies shall have perished;
and that, though a single word of denial would save us, we would not speak it. Ye have cruelly
slaughtered the good Macer; do so now by us, if such is your will, and we shall then be with
him where he is.'

With these words she again turned, and throwing her arms around her mother and younger sisters,
awaited the onset of the furious dogs, whose yellings and strugglings could all the while be
heard. She and they waited but a moment, when the blood-hounds, fiercer than the fiercest beasts
of the forest, flew from their leashes, and, in less time than would be believed, naught but
a heap of bones marked where the Christian family had stood.

The crowds, then fully sated as it seemed with the rare sport of the morning, dispersed, each
having something to say to another of the firmness and patriotism of Varus and Fronto,--and
of the training and behavior of the dogs.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the earliest period of reflection have I detested the Roman character; and all that I
have witnessed with my own eyes has served but to confirm those early impressions. They are
a people wholly destitute of humanity. They are the lineal descendants of robbers, murderers,
and warriors--which last are but murderers under another name--and they show their parentage
in every line of their hard-featured visages, and still more in all the qualities of the soul.
They are stern,--unyielding, unforgiving--cruel. A Roman heart dissected would be found all
stone. Any present purpose of passion, or ambition, or party zeal, will extinguish in the Roman
all that separates him from the brute. Bear witness to the truth of this, ye massacres of Marius
and Sylla! and others, more than can be named, both before and since--when the blood of neighbors,
friends, and fellow-citizens, was poured out as freely as if it had been the filthy stream
that leaks its way through the public sewers! And, in good sooth, was it not as filthy? For
those very ones so slain, had the turn of the wheel--as in very deed has often happened--set
them uppermost, would have done the same deed upon the others. Happy is it for the peace of
the earth and the great cause of humanity, that this faith of Christ, whether it be true or
false, is at length beginning to bear sway, and doing somewhat to soften, what more than twelve
centuries have passed over and left in its original vileness.

When, like the rest of that Roman mob, I had been filled with the sights and sounds of the
morning, I turned and sought the palace of Piso.

Arriving there I found Portia, Julia, and Piso sitting together at the hour of dinner. I sat
with them. Piso had not left the palace, since I had parted from him. They had remained at
peace within, and as ignorant of what had happened in the distant parts of the huge capital,
as we all were of what was then doing in another planet. When, as the meal drew to a close,
I had related to them the occurrences of which I had just been the witness, they could scarce
believe what they heard, though it was but what they and all had every reason to look for,
from the language which Aurelian had used, and the known hostility of the Prefect. Portia,
the mother, was moved more, if it could be so, than even Piso or Julia. When I had ended, she said,

'Think not, Nicomachus, that although, as thou knowest, I am of Aurelian's side in religion,
I defend these inhuman wrongs. To inflict them can make no part of the duty of any worshipper
of the gods, however zealous he may be. I do not believe that the gods are propitiated by any
acts which occasion suffering to their creatures. I have seen no justification under any circumstances
of human sacrifices--much less can I see any of sacrifices like those you have this morning
witnessed. Aurelian, in authorizing or conniving at such horrors, has cut himself loose from
the honor and the affections of all those in Rome whose esteem is worth possessing. He has
given himself up to the priesthood, and to the vulgar rabble over whom it exercises a sway
more strict than an Eastern despot. He is by these acts turning the current of the best Roman
sympathy toward the Christians, and putting off by a long remove the hour when he might hope
to see the ancient religion of the state delivered from its formidable rival.'

'It is the purpose of Aurelian,' I said, 'not so much to persecute and annoy the Christians,
as to exterminate them. He is persuaded that by using the same extreme and summary measures
with the Christians, which he has been accustomed to employ in the army, he can root out this
huge evil from the state, as easily as those lesser ones from the camp;--without reflecting
that it must be impossible to discover all, or any very large proportion of those who profess
Christianity, and that therefore his slaughter of a half or a quarter of the whole number,
will be to no purpose. It will have been but killing so many--there will be no other effect;
unless, indeed, it have the effect to convince new thousands of the power, and worth, and divinity
of that faith, for which men are so willing to die.'

'I mourn,' said Portia, 'that the great head of the state, and the great high priest of our
religion should have taken the part he has. Measures of moderation and true wisdom, though
they might not have obtained for him so great a name for zeal and love of the gods, nor made
so sudden and deep an impression upon the common mind and heart, would have secured with greater
probability the end at which he has aimed.'

'It is hard.' said I, 'to resist nature, especially so when superstition comes in to its aid.
Aurelian, by nature a savage, is doubly one through the influence of his religion and the priesthood.
Moderation and humanity are so contrary to every principle of the man and his faith, that they
are not with more reason to be looked for from him than gentleness in a famished wolf.'

Portia looked as if I had assailed the walls and capitol of Rome.

'I know not, Greek,' she quickly said, 'on what foundation it is you build so heavy a charge
against the time-honored faith of Rome. It has served Rome well these thousand years, and reared
men whose greatness will dwell in the memory of the world while the world lasts.'

'Great men have been reared in Rome,' I replied; 'it can by none be denied. But it has been
by resisting the influences of their religion, not by courting them. They have left themselves
in this to the safer tutelage of nature, as have you, lady; and they have escaped the evils,
which the common superstition would have entailed upon them, had they admitted it to their
bosoms. Who can deny that the religion of Rome, so far as it is a religion for the common people,
is based up on the characters of the gods, as they through history and tradition are held up
to them--especially as they are painted by the poets? Say if there be any other books of authority
on this great theme than the poets? What book of religious instruction and precept have you,
or have you ever had, corresponding to the volume of the Christians, called their gospels?'

'We have none,' said Portia, as I paused compelling a rejoinder. 'It is true, we have but our
historians and our poets, with what we find in the philosophers.'

'And the philosophers,' I replied, 'it will be seen at once can never be in the hands of the
common people. Whence then do they receive their religious ideas, but from tradition, and the
character of the deities of heaven, as they are set forth in the poets? And if this be so,
I need not ask whether it be possible that the religion of Rome should be any other than a
source of corruption to the people. So far as the gods should be their models, they can do
no otherwise than help to sink their imitators lower and lower in all filth and vice. Happily
for Rome and the world, lady, men instinctively revolt at such examples, and copy instead the
pattern which their own souls supply. Had the Romans been all which the imitation of their
gods would have made them, this empire had long ago sunk under the deep pollution. Fronto and
Aurelian--the last at least sincere--aim at a restoration of religion. They would lift it up
to the highest place, and make it the sovereign law of Rome. In this attempt, they are unconsciously
digging away her very foundations; they are leveling her proud walls with the earth. Suppose
Rome were made what Fronto would have her? Every Roman were then another Fronto--or another
Aurelian. Were that a world to live in? or to endure? These, lady, are the enemies of Rome,
Aurelian and Fronto. The only hope for Rome lies, in the reception of some such principles
as these of the Christians. Whether true or false, as a revelation from Heaven, they are in
accordance with the best part of our nature, and, once spread abroad and received, they would
tend by a mighty influence to exalt it more and more. They would descend, as it is of the nature
of absolute truth to do, and lay hold of the humblest and lowest and vilest, and in them erect
their authority, and bring them into the state, in which every man should be, for the reason
that he is a man. Helenism cannot do this.'

'Notwithstanding what I have heard, Nicomachus, I think you must yourself be a Christian. But
whether you are or not, I grant you to understand well what religion should be. And I must
say that it has ever been such to me. I, from what I have read of our moralists and philosophers,
and from what I have reflected, have arrived at principles not very different from such as
you have now hinted at--'

'And are those of Fronto or Varus like yours, lady?'

'I fear not,' said Portia.

'Yours then, let me say, are the religion, which you have first found within your own breast,
a gift from the gods, and then by meditation have confirmed and exalted; theirs, the common
faith of Rome. Could your faith rejoice in or permit the horrors I have this day witnessed
and but now described? Yet of theirs they are the legitimate fruit, the necessary product.'

'Out of the best,' replied Portia, 'I believe, Nicomachus, may often come the worst. There
is naught so perfect and so wise, but human passions will mar and pervert it. I should not
wonder if, in ages to come, this peace-loving faith of the Christians, should it survive so
long, should itself come to preside over scenes as full of misery and guilt as those you have
to-day seen in the streets of Rome.'

'It may be,' I rejoined. 'But it is nevertheless our duty, in the selection of our principles,
to take those which are the purest, the most humane, the most accordant with what is best in
us, and the least liable to perversion and abuse. And whether, if this be just, it be better
that mankind should have presented for their imitation and honor the character and actions
of Jesus Christ, or those of Jupiter "Greatest and Best," may be left for the simplest to determine.'

Portia is so staunch a Roman, that one cannot doubt that as she was born and has lived, so
she will die--a Roman. And truth to say, were all like her, there were little room for quarrel
with the principles that could produce such results. But for one such, there are a thousand
like Varus, Fronto, and Aurelian.

As after this interview, which was prolonged till the shades of evening began to fall, I held
communion with myself on the way to the quiet retreats of Tibur, I could not but entertain
apprehensions for the safety of the friends I had just left. I felt that where such men as
Varus and Fronto were at the head of affairs, wielding, almost as they pleased, the omnipotence
of Aurelian, no family nor individual of whatever name or rank could feel secure of either
fortune or life. I had heard indeed such expressions of regard fall from the Emperor for Piso
and his beautiful wife, that I was sure that if any in Rome might feel safe, it was they. Yet
why should he, who had fallen with fatal violence upon one of his own household, and such a
one as Aurelia, hesitate to strike the family of Piso, if thereby religion or the state were
to be greatly benefited? I could see a better chance for them only in the Emperor's early love
of Julia, which still seemed to exercise over him a singular power.

The Queen, I found, upon naming to her the subject of my thoughts, could entertain none of
my apprehensions. It is so difficult for her nature to admit the faintest purpose of the infliction
of wanton suffering, that she cannot believe it of others. Notwithstanding her experience of
the harsh and cruel spirit of Aurelian, notwithstanding the unnecessary destruction, for any
national or political object, of the multitudes of Palmyra, still she inclines to confide in
him. He has given so many proofs of regret for that wide ruin, he has suffered so much for
it--especially for his murder of Longinus--in the opinion of all Rome, and of the highest and
best in all nations, that she is persuaded he will be more cautious than ever whom he assails,
and where he scatters ruin and death. Still, such is her devotion to Julia and her love of
Piso--so entirely is her very life lodged in that of her daughter, that she resolved to seek
the Emperor without delay, and if possible obtain an assurance of their safety, both from his
own arm and that of popular violence. This I urged upon her with all the freedom I might use;
and not in vain; for the next day, at the gardens of Sallust, she had repeated interviews with
Aurelian--and afterward at her own palace, whither Aurelian came with Livia, and where, while
Livia ranged among the flowers with Faustula, the Emperor and the Queen held earnest discourse--not
only on the subject which chiefly agitated Zenobia, but on the general principles on which
he was proceeding in this attempted annihilation of Christianity. Sure I am, that never in
the Christian body itself was there one who pleaded their cause with a more winning and persuasive
eloquence.

LETTER X.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

I write to you, Fausta, by the hands of Vabalathus, who visits Palmyra on his way to his new
kingdom. I trust you will see him. The adversities of his family and the misfortunes of his
country have had most useful effects upon his character. Though the time has been so short,
he has done much to redeem himself. Always was he, indeed, vastly superior to his brothers;
but now, he is not only that, but very much more. Qualities have unfolded themselves, and affections
and tastes warmed into life, which we none of us, I believe, so much as suspected the existence
of. Zenobia has come to be devotedly attached to him, and to repose the same sort of confidence
in him as formerly in Julia. All this makes her the more reluctant to part with him; but, as
it is for a throne, she acquiesces. He carries away from Rome with him one of its most beautiful
and estimable women--the youngest daughter of the venerable Tacitus--to whom he has just been
married. In her you will see an almost too favorable specimen of Roman women.

Several days have elapsed since I wrote to you, giving an account of the sufferings and death
of the Christian Macer--as I learned them from those who were present--for a breach of the
late edicts, and for sacrilegiously, as the laws term it, tearing down the parchment containing
them from one of the columns of the capitol. During this period other horrors of the same kind
have been enacted in different parts of the city. Macer is not the only one who has already
paid for his faith with his life. All the restraints of the law seem to be withdrawn, not confessedly
but virtually, and the Christians in humble condition--and such for the most part we are--are
no longer safe from violence in the streets of Rome. Although, Fausta, you believe not with
us, you must, scarcely the less for that, pity us in our present straits. Can the mind picture
to itself, in some aspects of the case, a more miserable lot! Were the times, even at the worst,
so full of horror in Palmyra as now here in Rome? There, if the city were given up to pillage,
the citizen had at least the satisfaction of dying in the excitement of a contest, and in the
defence of himself and his children. Here the prospect is--the actual scene is almost arrived
and present--that all the Christians of Rome will be given over to the butchery, first, of
the Prefect's court, and others of the same character, established throughout the city for
the express purpose of trying the Christians--and next, of the mob commissioned with full powers
to search out, find, and slay, all who bear the hated name. The Christians, it is true, die
for a great cause. In that cause they would rather die than live, if to live, they must sacrifice
any of the interests of truth. But still death is not preferred; much less is death, in the
revolting and agonizing form, which, chiefly, these voluntary executioners choose, to be viewed
in any other light than an evil too great almost to be endured.

It would astonish you, I think, and give you conceptions of the power of this religion such
as you have never had as yet, could you with me look into the bosoms of these thousand Christian
families, and behold the calmness and the fortitude with which they await the approaching calamities.
There is now, as they believe, little else before them but death--and death, such as a foretaste
has been given of, in the sufferings of Macer. Yet are they, with wonderfully few exceptions,
here in their houses prepared for whatever may betide, and resolved that they will die for
him unto whom they have lived. This unshrinking courage, this spirit of self-sacrifice, is
the more wonderful, as it is now the received belief that they would not forfeit their Christian
name or hope by withdrawing, before the storm bursts, from the scene of danger.

There have been those in the church, and some there are now, who would have all, who in time
of persecution seek safety in flight, or by any form of compromise, visited with the severest
censures the church can inflict, and forever after refused readmission to the privileges which
they once enjoyed. Paying no regard to the peculiar temperament and character of the individual,
they would compel all to remain fixed at their post, inviting by a needless ostentation of
their name and faith, the search and assault of the enemy. Macer was of this number. Happily
they are now few: and the Christians are left free--free from the constraint of any tyrant
opinion, to act according to the real feeling of the heart. But does this freedom carry them
away from Rome? Does it show them to the world hurrying in crowds by day, or secretly flying
by night, from the threatened woes? No so. All who were here when these troubles first began,
are here now, or with few and inconsiderable exceptions--fewer than I could wish. All who have
resorted to me under these circumstances for counsel or aid have I advised, if flight be a
possible thing to them, that they should retreat with their children to some remote and secluded
spot, and wait till the tempest should have passed by. Especially have I so advised and urged
all whom I have known to be of a sensitive and timid nature, or bound by ties of more than
common interest and necessity to large circles of relatives and dependents. I have aimed to
make them believe, that little gain would accrue to the cause of Christ from the addition of
them and theirs to the mass of sufferers--when that mass is already so large; whereas great
and irreparable loss would follow to the community of their friends, and of the Christians
who should survive. They would do an equal service to Christ and his church by living, and,
on the first appearance of calmer times, reassuming their Christian name and profession; being
then a centre about which there might gather together a new multitude of believers. If still
the enemies of Christ should prevail, and a day of rest never dawn nor arise, they might then,
when hope was dead, come forth and add themselves to the innumerable company of those, born
of Heaven, who hold life and all its joys and comforts as dross, in comparison with the perfect
integrity of the mind. By such statements have I prevailed with many. Probus too has exerted
his power in the same direction, and has enjoyed the happiness of seeing safely embarked for
Greece, or Syria, many whose lives in the coming years will be beyond price to the then just-surviving
church.

Yet do not imagine, Fausta, that we are an immaculate people; that the weaknesses and faults
which seem universal to mankind, are not to be discovered in us that we are all, what by our
acknowledged principles we ought to be. We have our traitors and our renegades, our backsliders,
and our well-dissembling hypocrites--but so few are they, that they give us little disquiet,
and bring slight discredit upon us with the enemy. And beside these, there will now be those,
as in former persecutions, who, as the day of evil approaches, will, through the operation
simply of their fears, renounce their name and faith. Of the former, some have already made
themselves conspicuous--conspicuous now by their cowardly and hasty apostacy, as they were
before by a narrow, contentious, and restless zeal. Among others, the very one, who, on the
evening when the Christians assembled near the baths of Macer, was so forward to assail the
faith of Probus, and who ever before, on other occasions, when a display could by any possibility
be made of devotion to his party, or an ostentatious parade of his love of Christ, was always
thrusting himself upon the notice of our body and clamoring for notoriety, has already abandoned
us and sought safety in apostacy. Others of the same stamp have in like manner deserted us.
They are neither lamented by us nor honored by the other party. It is said of him whom I have
just spoken of, that soon as he had publicly renounced Christ, and sacrificed, hisses and yells
of contempt broke from the surrounding crowds. He, doubtless it occurred to them, who had so
proved himself weak, cowardly, and faithless, to one set of friends, could scarcely be trusted
as brave and sincere by those to whom he then joined himself. There are no virtues esteemed
by the Romans like courage and sincerity. This trait in their character is a noble one, and
is greatly in our favor. For, much as they detest our superstitions, they so honor our fortitude
under suffering, that a deep sympathy springs up almost unconsciously in our behalf. Half of
those who, on the first outbreak of these disorders, would have been found bitterly hostile,
if their hearts could be scanned now or when this storm shall have passed by, would be found
most warmly with us--not in belief indeed, but in a fellow-feeling, which is its best preparation
and almost certain antecedent. Even in such an inhuman rabble as perpetrated the savage murder
of the family of Macer, there were thousands who, then driven on by the fury of passion, will,
as soon as reflection returns, bear testimony in a wholly altered feeling toward us, to the
power with which the miraculous serenity and calm courage of those true martyrs have wrought
within them. No others are now spoken of in Rome, but Macer and his heroic wife and children.

       *       *       *       *       *

Throughout the city it is this morning current that new edicts are to be issued in the course
of the day. Milo, returning from some of his necessary excursions into the more busy and crowded
parts of the city, says that it is confidently believed. I told him that I could scarcely think
it, as I had reason to believe that the Emperor had engaged that they should not be as yet.

'An Emperor surely,' said Milo, 'may change his mind if he lists. He is little better than
the rest of us, if he have not so much power as that. I think, if I were Emperor, that would
be my chief pleasure, to do and say one thing to-day and just the contrary thing to-morrow,
without being obliged to give a reason for it. If there be anything that makes slavery it is
this rendering a reason. In the service of the most noble Gallienus, fifty slaves were subject
to me, and never was I known to render a reason for a single office I put them to. That was
being nearer an Emperor than I fear I shall ever be again.'

'I hope so, Milo,' I said. 'But what reason have you to think,--if you will render a reason,--that
Aurelian has changed his mind?'

'I have given proof,' answered Milo, 'have I not, that if anything is known in Rome, it is
known by Curio?'

'I think you have shown that he knows some things.'

'He was clearly right about the sacrifices,' responded Milo, 'as events afterwards declared.
Just as many suffered as he related to me. What now he told me this morning was this, "that
certain persons would find themselves mistaken--that some knew more than others--that the ox
led to the slaughter knew less than the butcher--that great persons trusted not their secrets
to every one--Emperors had their confidants--and Fronto had his."'

'Was that all?' I patiently asked.

'I thought, noble sir,' he replied, 'that it was--for upon that he only sagaciously shook his
head and was silent. However, as I said nothing, knowing well that some folks would die if
they retained a secret, though they never would part with it for the asking, Curio began again,
soon as he despaired of any question from me, and said "he could tell me what was known but
to three persons in Rome." His wish was that I should ask him who they were, and what it was
that was known but to so few; but I did not, but began a new bargain with a man for his poultry--for,
you must know, we were in the market. He then began himself and said, "Who think you they were?"
But I answered not. "Who," he then whispered in my ear, "but Aurelian, Fronto, and myself!"
Then I gratified him by asking what the secret was, for if it had anything to do with the Christians
I should like to know it. "I will tell it to thee," he said, "but to no other in Rome, and
to thee only on the promise that it goes in at thy ear but not out at thy mouth." I said that
I trusted that I, who had kept, I dared hardly say how many years, and kept them still, the
secrets of Gallienus, should know how to keep and how to reveal anything he had to say. Whereupon,
without any more reserve, he assured me that Fronto had persuaded the Emperor to publish new
and more severe edicts before the sixth hour, telling him as a reason for it, that the Christians
were flying from Rome in vast numbers; that every night--they having first passed the gates
in the day--multitudes were hastening into the country, making for Gaul and Spain, or else
embarking in vessels long prepared for such service on the Tiber; that, unless instantly arrested,
there would be none or few for the edicts to operate upon, and then, when all had become calm
again, and he--Aurelian--were dead, and another less pious upon the throne, they would all
return, and Rome swarm with them as before. Curio said that, when the Emperor heard this, he
broke out into a wild and furious passion. He swore by the great god of light--which is an
oath Curio says he never uses but he keeps--that you, sir, Piso, had deceived him--had cajoled
him; that you had persuaded him to wait and hear what the Christians had to say for themselves
before they were summarily dealt with, which he had consented to do, but which he now saw was
a device to gain time by which all, or the greater part, might escape secretly from the capital.
He then, with Fronto and the secretaries, prepared and drew up new edicts, declaring every
Christian an enemy of the state and of the gods, and requiring them everywhere to be informed
against, and upon conviction of being Christians, to be thrown into prison and await there
the judgment of the Emperor. These things, sir, are what I learned from Curio, which I make
no secret of, for many reasons. I trust you will believe them, for I heard the same story all
along the streets, and mine is better worthy of belief only because of where and whom it comes
from.'

I told Milo that I could not but suppose there was something in it, as I had heard the rumor
from several other sources; that, if Curio spoke the truth, it was worse than I had apprehended.

Putting together what was thus communicated by Milo, and what, as he said, was to be heard
anywhere in the streets, I feared that some dark game might indeed be playing by the priest
against us, by which our lives might be sacrificed even before the day were out.

'Should you not,' said Julia, 'instantly seek Aurelian? If what Milo has said possess any particle
of truth, it is most evident the Emperor has been imposed upon by the lies of Fronto. He has
cunningly used his opportunities: and you, Lucius, except he be instantly undeceived, may be
the first to feel his power.'

While she was speaking, Probus, Felix, and others of the principal Christians of Rome entered
the apartment. Their faces and their manner, and their first words, declared that the same
conviction possessed them as us.

'We are constrained,' said Felix, 'thus with little ceremony, noble Piso, to intrude upon your
privacy But in truth the affair we have come upon admits not of ceremony or delay.'

'Let there be none then, I pray, and let us hear at once what concerns us all.'

'It is spread over the city,' replied the bishop, 'that before the sixth hour edicts are to
be issued that will go to the extreme we have feared--affecting the liberty and life of every
Christian in Rome. We find it hard to believe this, however, as it is in the face of what Aurelian
has most expressly stipulated. It is therefore the wish and prayer of the Christians that you,
being nearer to him than any, should seek an interview with him, and then serve our cause in
such manner and by such arguments as you best can.'

'This is what we desire, Piso,' said they all.

I replied, that I would immediately perform that which they desired, but that I would that
some other of our number should accompany me. Whereupon Felix was urged to join me; and consenting,
we, at the moment, departed for the palace of Aurelian.

On arriving at the gardens, it was only by urgency that I obtained admission to the presence
of the Emperor. But upon declaring that I came upon an errand that nearly concerned himself
and Rome, I was ordered to be brought into his private apartment.

As I entered, Aurelian quickly rose from the table, at which he had been sitting, on the other
side of which sat Fronto. None of the customary urbanity was visible in his deportment; his
countenance was dark and severe, his reception of me cold and stately, his voice more harsh
and bitter than ever. I could willingly have excused the presence of the priest.

'Ambassadors,' said Aurelian inclining toward us, 'I may suppose from the community of Christians.'

'We came at their request,' I replied; 'rumors are abroad through the city, too confidently
reported, and too generally credited to be regarded as wholly groundless, yet which it is impossible
for those who know Aurelian to believe, asserting that to-day edicts are to be issued affecting
both the liberty and the lives of the Christians--'

'I would, Piso, that rumor were never farther from the truth than in this.'

'But,' I rejoined, 'has not Aurelian said that he would proceed against them no further till
he had first heard their defence from their own organs?'

'Is it one party only in human affairs, young Piso,' he sharply replied,'that must conform
to truth and keep inviolate a plighted word? Is deception no vice when it is a Christian who
deceives? I indeed said that I would hear the Christians, though, when I made that promise,
I also said that 'twould profit them nothing; but I then little knew why it was that Piso was
so urgent.'

'Truth,' I replied, 'cannot be received from some quarters, any more than sweet and wholesome
water through poisoned channels. Even, Aurelian, if Fronto designed not to mislead, no statement
passing through his lips--if it concerned the Christians--could do so, without there being
added to it, or lost from it, much that properly belonged to it. I have heard that too, which,
I may suppose, has been poured into the mind of Aurelian, to fill it with a bitterer enmity
still toward the Christians--that the Christians have sought this delay only that they might
use the opportunities thus afforded, to escape from his power--and that, using them, they have
already in the greater part fled from the capital, leaving to the Emperor but a few old women
and children upon whom to wreak his vengeance. How does passion bring its film over the clearest
mind! How does the eye that will not see, shut out the light though it be brighter than that
of day! It had been wiser in Aurelian, as well as more merciful, first to have tried the truth
of what has thus been thrust upon his credulity ere he made it a ground of action. True himself,
he suspects not others; but suspicion were sometimes a higher virtue than frank confidence.
Had Aurelian but looked into the streets of Rome, he could not but have seen the grossness
of the lie that has been palmed upon his too willing ear. Of the seventy thousand Christians
who dwelt in Rome, the same seventy thousand, less by scarce a seventieth part, are now here
within their dwellings waiting the will of Aurelian. Take this on the word of one whom, in
former days at least, you have found worthy of your trust. Take it on the word of the venerable
head of this community who stands here to confirm it either by word or oath--and in Rome it
needs but to know that Felix, the Christian, has spoken, to know that truth has spoken too.'

'The noble Piso,' added Felix 'has spoken what all who know aught of the affairs and condition
of the Christians know to be true. There is among us, great Emperor, too much, rather than
too little, of that courage that meets suffering and death without shrinking. Let your proclamations
this moment be sounded abroad calling upon the Christians to appear for judgment upon their
faith before the tribunals of Rome, and they will come flocking up as do your Pagan multitudes
to the games of the Flavian.'

While we had been speaking, Fronto sat, inattentive as it seemed to what was going on. But
at these last words he was compelled to give ear, and did it as a man does who has heard unwelcome
truths. As Felix ended, the Emperor turned toward him without speaking, and without any look
of doubt or passion, waiting for such explanation as he might have to give.

Fronto, instantly re-assuring himself, rose from his seat with the air of a man who doubts
not the soundness of his cause, and feels sure of the ear of his judge.

'I will not say, great Emperor, that I have not in my ardor made broader the statements which
I have received from others. It is an error quite possible to have been guilty of. My zeal
for the gods is warm and oft-times outruns the calm dictates of reason. But if what has now
been affirmed as true, be true, it is more I believe than they who so report can make good--or
than others can, be they friends or enemies of this tribe. Who shall now go out into this wilderness
of streets, into the midst of this countless multitude of citizens and strangers--men of all
religions and all manners--and pick me out the seventy thousand Christians, and show that all
are close at home? Out of the seventy thousand, is it not palpable that its third or half may
have fled, and yet it shall be in no man's power to make it so appear--to point to the spot
whence they have departed, or to that whither they have gone? But beside this, I must here
and now confess, that it was upon no knowledge of my own gathered by my own eyes and ears that
I based the truth, now charged as error; but upon what came to me through those in whose word
I have ever placed the most sacred trust, the priests of the temple, and, more than all, my
faithful servant--friend I may call him--Curio, into whom drops by some miracle all that is
strange or new in Rome.'

I said in reply, 'that it were not so difficult perhaps as the priest has made it seem, to
learn what part of the Christians were now in Rome, and what part were gone. There are among
us, Aurelian, in every separate church, men who discharge duties corresponding to those which
Fronto performs in the Temple of the Sun. We have our priests, and others subordinate to them,
who fill offices of dignity and trust. Beside these, there are others still, who, for their
wealth or their worth, are known well, not among the Christians only, but the Romans also.
Of these, it were an easy matter to learn, whether or not they are now in Rome. And if these
are here, who, from the posts they fill would be the first victims, it may be fairly supposed
that the humbler sort and less able to depart--and therefore safer--are also here. Here I stand,
and here stands Felix; we are not among the missing! And we boast not of a courage greater
than may be claimed for the greater part of those to whom we belong.'

'Great Emperor,' said Fronto, 'I will say no more than this, that in its whole aspect this
bears the same front, as the black aspersions of the wretch Macer, whose lies, grosser than
Cretan ever forged, poured in a foul and rotten current from his swollen lips; yea, while the
hot irons were tearing out his very heart-strings, did he still belch forth fresh torrents
blacker and fouler as they flowed longer, till death came and took him to other tortures worse
a thousand-fold--the just doom of such as put false for true. That those were the malignant
lies I have said they are, Aurelian can need no other proof, I hope, than that which has been
already given.'

'I am still, Fronto, as when your witnesses were here before me, satisfied with your defence.
When indeed I doubt the truth of Aurelian, I may be found to question that of Fronto. Piso--hold!
We have heard and said too much already. Take me not, as if I doubted, more than Fronto, the
word which you have uttered, or that of the venerable Felix. You have said that which you truly
believe. The honor of a Piso has never been impeached, nor, as I trust, can be. Yet, has there
been error, both here and there, and, I doubt not, is. Let it be thus determined then. If,
upon any, blame shall seem to rest, let it be upon myself. If any shall be charged with doing
to-day what must be undone to-morrow, let the burden be upon my shoulders. I will therefore
recede; the edicts, which, as you have truly heard, were to-day to have been promulged, shall
sleep at least another day. To-morrow, Piso, at the sixth hour, in the palace on the Palatine,
shall Probus--if such be the pleasure of the Christians--plead in their behalf. Then and there
will I hear what this faith is, from him, or from whomsoever they shall appoint. And now no more.'

With these words on the part of Aurelian, our audience closed, and we turned away--grieving
to see that a man like him, otherwise a Titan every way, should have so surrendered himself
into the keeping of another; yet rejoicing that some of that spirit of justice that once wholly
swayed him still remained, and that our appeal to it had not been in vain.

To-morrow then, at the sixth hour, will Probus appear before Aurelian. It is not, Fausta, because
I, or any, suppose that Aurelian himself can be so wrought upon as to change any of his purposes,
that we desire this hearing. He is too far entered into this business--too heartily, and, I
may add, too conscientiously--to be drawn away from it, or diverted from the great object which
he has set up before him. I will not despair, however, that even he may be softened, and abate
somewhat of that raging thirst for our blood, for the blood of us all, that now seems to madden
him. But, however this may be, upon other minds impressions may be made that may be of service
to us either directly or indirectly. We may suppose that the hearing of the Christians will
be public, that many of great weight with Aurelian will be there, who never before heard a
word from a Christian's lips, and who know only that we are held as enemies of the state and
its religion. Especially, I doubt not, will many, most or all, of the Senate be there; and
it is to that body I still look, as, in the last resort, able perhaps to exert a power that
may save us at least from absolute annihilation.

       *       *       *       *       *

To-day has Probus been heard; and while others sleep, I resume my pen to describe to you the
events of it, as they have occurred.

It was in the banqueting hall of the imperial palace on the Palatine, that Probus was directed
to appear, and defend his cause before the Emperor. It is a room of great size, and beautiful
in its proportions and decorations. A row of marble pillars adorns each longer side of the
apartment. Its lofty ceiling presents to the eye in allegory, and in colors that can never
fade, Rome victorious over the world. The great and good of Rome's earlier days stand around,
in marble or brass, upon pedestals, or in niches, sunk into the substance of the walls. And
where the walls are not thus broken, pictures wrought upon them, set before the beholder many
of the scenes in which the patriots of former days achieved or suffered for the cause of their
country. Into this apartment, soon as it was thrown open, poured a crowd both of Christians
and Pagans, of Romans and of strangers from every quarter of the world. There was scarcely
a remote province of the empire that had not there its representative; and from the far East,
discernible at once by their costume, were many present, who seemed interested not less than
others in the great questions to be agitated. Between the two central columns upon the western
side, just beneath the pedestal of a colossal statue of Vespasian, the great military idol
of Aurelian, upon a seat slightly raised above the floor, having on his right hand Livia and
Julia, sat the Emperor. He was surrounded by his favorite generals and the chief members of
the senate, seated, or else standing against the columns or statues which were near him. There
too, at the side of, or immediately before, Aurelian, but placed lower, were Porphyrius, Varus,
Fronto, and half the priesthood of Rome. A little way in front of the Emperor, and nearly in
the centre of the room, stood Probus.

If Aurelian sat in his chair of gold, looking the omnipotent master of all the world, as if
no mere mortal force could drive him from the place he held and filled--Probus, on his part,
though he wanted all that air of pride and self-confidence written upon every line of Aurelian's
face and form, yet seemed like one, who, in the very calmness of an unfaltering trust in a
goodness and power above that of earth, was in perfect possession of himself, and fearless
of all that man might say or do. His face was pale; but his eye was clear. His air was that
of a man mild and gentle, who would not injure willingly the meanest thing endowed with life;
but of a man too of that energy and inward strength of purpose, that he would not on the other
hand suffer an injury to be done to another, if any power lodged within him could prevent it.
It was that of a man to be loved, and yet to be feared; whose compassion you might rely upon;
but whose indignation at wrong and injustice might also be relied upon, whenever the weak or
the oppressed should cry out for help against the strong and the cruel.

No sooner had Aurelian seated himself, and the thronged apartment become still, than he turned
to those who were present and said,

'That the Christians had desired this audience before him and the sacred senate, and he had
therefore granted them their request. And he was now here, to listen to whatever they might
urge in their behalf. But,' said he, 'I tell them now, as I have told them before, that it
can be of no avail. The acts of former Emperors, from Nero to the present hour, have sufficiently
declared what the light is in which a true Roman should view the superstition that would supplant
the ancient worship of the gods. It is enough for me, that such is the acknowledged aim, and
asserted tendency and operation of this Jewish doctrine. No merits of any kind can atone for
the least injury it might inflict upon that venerable order of religious worship which, from
the time of Romulus, has exercised over us its benignant influence, and, doubtless, by the
blessings it has drawn down upon us from the gods, crowned our arms with a glory the world
has never known before--putting under our feet every civilized kingdom from the remotest East
to the farthest West, and striking terror into the rude barbarians of the German forests. Nevertheless,
they shall be heard; and if it is from thee, Christian, that we are to know what thy faith
is, let us now hear whatever it is in thy heart to say. There shall no bridle be put upon thee;
but thou hast freest leave to utter what thou wilt. There is nothing of worst concerning either
Rome or her worship, her rulers or her altars, her priesthood or her gods, but thou mayest
pour it forth in such measure as shall please thee, and no one shall say thee nay. Now say
on; the day and the night are before thee.'

'I shall require, great Emperor,' replied Probus, 'but little of either; yet I thank thee,
and all of our name who are here present thank thee, for the free range which thou hast offered.
I thank thee too, and so do we all, for the liberty of frank and undisturbed speech, which
thou hast assured to me. Yet shall I not use it to malign either the Romans or their faith.
It is not with anger and fierce denunciation, O Emperor, that it becomes the advocate, of what
he believes to be a religion from Heaven, to assail the adherents of a religion like this of
Rome, descended to the present generation through so many ages, and which all who have believed
it in times past, and all who believe it now, do hold to be true and woven into the very life
of the state--the origin of its present greatness, and without which it must fall asunder into
final ruin, the bond that held it together being gone. If the religion of Rome be false, or
really injurious, it is not the generations now living who are answerable for its existence
formerly or now, nor for the principles, truths, or rites, which constitute it. They have received
it, as they have received a thousand customs which are now among them, by inheritance from
the ancestors who bequeathed them, which they received at too early an age to judge concerning
their fitness or unfitness, but to which, for the reason of that early reception, they have
become fondly attached, even as to parents, brothers, and sisters, from whom they have never
been divided. It becomes not the Christian, therefore, to load with reproaches those who are
placed where they are, not by their own will, but by the providence of the Great Ruler. Neither
does it become you of the Roman faith to reproach us for the faith to which we adhere; because
the greater proportion of us also have inherited our religion, as you yours, from parents and
a community who professed it before us, and all regard it as heaven-descended, and so proved
to be divine, that without inexpiable guilt we may not refuse to accept it. It must be in the
face of reason, then, and justice, in the face of what is both wise and merciful, if either
should judge harshly of the other.

'Besides, what do I behold in this wide devotion of the Roman people to the religion of their
ancestors, but a testimony, beautiful for the witness it bears, to the universality of that
principle or feeling, which binds the human heart to some god or gods, in love and worship?
The worship may be wrong, or greatly imperfect, and sometimes injurious; the god or gods may
be so conceived of, as to act with hurtful influences upon human character and life; still
it is religion; it is a sentiment that raises the thoughts of the humble and toilworn from
the earthly and the perishing, to the heavenly and the eternal. And this, though accompanied
by some or many rites shocking to humanity, and revolting to reason, is better than that men
were, in this regard, no higher nor other than brutes; but received their being as they do
theirs, they know not whence, and when they lose it, depart like them, they know not and care
not whither. In the religious character of the Roman people--for religious in the earlier ages
of this empire they eminently were, and they are religious now, though in less degree--I behold
and acknowledge the providence of God, who has so framed us that our minds tend by resistless
force to himself; satisfied at first with low and crude conceptions, but ever aspiring after
those that shall be worthier and worthier.

'And now, O Emperor, for the same reason that we believe God the creator did implant in us
all, of all tribes and tongues, this deep desire to know, worship, and enjoy him, so that no
people have ever been wholly ignorant of him, do we believe that he has, in these latter years,
declared himself to mankind more plainly than he did in the origin of things, or than he does
through our own reason, so that men may, by such better knowledge of himself and of all necessary
truth which he has imparted, be raised to a higher virtue on earth, and made fit for a more
exalted life in heaven. We believe that he has thus declared himself by him whom you have heard
named as the Master and Lord of the Christian, and after whom they are called, Jesus Christ.
Him, God the creator, we believe, sent into the world to teach a better religion than the world
had; and to break down and forever destroy, through the operation of his truth, a thousand
injurious forms of false belief. It is this religion which we would extend, and impart to those
who will open their minds to consider its claims, and their hearts to embrace its truths, when
they have once been seen to be divine. This has been our task and our duty in Rome, to beseech
you not blindly to receive, but strictly to examine, and, if found to be true, then humbly
and gratefully to adopt this new message from above--'

'By the gods, Aurelian,' exclaimed Porphyrius, 'these Christians are kindly disposed! their
benevolence and their philosophy are alike. We are obliged to them--'

'Not now, Porphyrius,' said Aurelian. 'Disturb not the Christian. Say on, Probus.'

'We hope,' continued Probus, nothing daunted by the scornful jeers of the philosopher, 'that
we are sincerely desirous of your welfare, and so pray that in the lapse of years all may,
as some have done, take at our hands the good we proffer them; for, sure we are, that would
all so receive it, Rome would tower upwards with a glory and a beauty that should make her
a thousand-fold more honored and beloved than now, and her roots would strike down, and so
fasten themselves in the very centre of the earth, that well might she then be called the Eternal
City. Yet, O Emperor, though such is our aim and purpose; though we would propagate a religion
from God, and, in doing so, are willing to labor our lives long, and, if need be, die in the
sacred cause, yet are we charged as atheists. The name by which we are known, as much as by
that of Christian, is atheist--'

'Such, I have surely believed you,' said Porphyrius, again breaking in, 'and, at this moment, do.'

'But it is a name, Aurelian, fixed upon us ignorantly or slanderously; ignorantly, I am willing
to believe. We believe in a God, O Emperor; it is to him we live, and to him we die. The charge
of atheism I thus publicly deny, as do all Christians who are here, as would all throughout
the world with one acclaim, were they also here, and would all seal their testimony, if need
were, with their blood. We believe in God; not in many gods, some greater and some lesser,
as with you, and whose forms are known and can be set forth in images and statues--but in one,
one God, the sole monarch of the universe; whom no man, be he never so cunning, can represent
in wood, or brass, or stone; whom, so to represent in any imaginary shape, our faith denounces
as unlawful and impious. Hence it is, O Emperor, because the vulgar, when they enter our churches
or our houses, see there no image of god or goddess, that they imagine we are without a God,
and without his worship. And such conclusion may in them be excused. For, till they are instructed,
it may not be easy for them to conceive of one God, filling Heaven and earth with his presence.
But in others it is hard to see how they think us atheists on the same ground, since nothing
can be plainer than that among you, the intelligent, and the philosophers especially, believe
as we do in a great pervading invisible spirit of the universe. Plato worshipped not nor believed
in these stone or wooden gods; nor in any of the fables of the Greek religion; yet who ever
has charged him with atheism? So was it with the great Longinus. I see before me those who
are now famed for their science in such things, who are the teachers of Rome in them, yet not
one, I may venture to declare, believes other than as Plato and Longinus did in this regard.
It is an error or a calumny that has ever prevailed concerning us; but in former times some
have had the candor, when the error has been removed, to confess publicly that they had been
subject to it. The Emperor Marcus Aurelius, to name no other, when, in the straits into which
he was fallen at Cotinus, he charged his disasters upon the Christian soldiers, and, they praying
prostrate upon the earth for him and his army and empire, he forthwith gained the victory,
which before he had despaired of--did then immediately acknowledge that they had a God, and
that they should no longer be reviled as atheists; since it was plain that men might believe
in a God, and carry about the image of him in their own minds, though they had no visible one.
It is thus we are all believers. We carry about with us, in the sanctuary of our own bosoms,
our image of the great and almighty God whom we serve; and before that, and that only, do we
bow down and worship. Were we indeed atheists, it were not unreasonable that you dealt with
us as you now do, nay and much more severely; for, where belief in a God does not exist, it
is not easy to see how any state can long hold together. The necessary bond is wanting, and,
as a sheaf of wheat when the band is broken, it must fall asunder.

'The first principle of the religion of Christ is this belief in God; in his righteous providence
here on earth, and in a righteous retribution hereafter. How then can the religion of Christ
in this respect be of dangerous influence or tendency? It is well known to all, who are acquainted
in the least with history or philosophy, that in the religion of the Jews, the belief and worship
of one God almost constitutes the religion itself. Every thing else is inferior and subordinate.
In this respect the religion of Jesus is like that of the Jews. It is exceeding jealous of
the honor and worship of this one God--this very same God of the Jews; for Jesus was himself
a Jew, and has revealed to us the same God whom we are required to worship, only with none
of the ceremonies, rites, and sacrifices, which were peculiar to that people. It is this which
has caused us, equally to our and their displeasure, frequently to be confounded together,
and mistaken the one for the other. But the differences between us are, excepting in the great
doctrine I have just named, very great and essential. This doctrine therefore, which is the
chief of all, being so fundamental with us, it is not easy, I say, to see how we can on religious
accounts be dangerous to the state. For many things are comprehended in and follow from this
faith. It is not a barren, unprofitable speculation, but a practical and restraining doctrine
of the greatest moral efficiency. If it be not this to us, to all and every one of us, it is
not what it ought to be and we wrongly understand or else wilfully pervert it.

'We believe that we are everywhere surrounded by the presence of our God: that he is our witness
every moment, and everywhere conscious, as we are ourselves, of our words, acts, and thoughts;
and will bring us all to a strict account at last for whatever he has thus witnessed that has
been contrary to that rigid law of holy living which he has established over us in Christ.
Must not this act upon us most beneficially? We believe that in himself he is perfect purity,
and that he demands of us that we be so in our degree also. We can impute to him none of the
acts, such as the believers in the Greek and Roman religions freely ascribe to their Jove,
and so have not, as others have, in such divine example, a warrant and excuse for the like
enormities. This one God too we also regard as our judge, who will in the end sit upon our
conduct throughout the whole of our lives, and punish or reward according to what we shall
have been, just as the souls of men, according to your belief, receive their sentence at the
bar of Minos and Rhadamanthus. And other similar truths are wrapt up with and make a part of
this great primary one. Wherefore it is most evident, that nothing can be more false and absurd
than to think and speak of us as atheists and for that reason a nuisance in the state.

'But it is not only that we are atheists, but that, through our atheism, we are to be looked
upon as disorderly members of society, disturbers of the peace, disaffected and rebellious
citizens, that we hear on every side. I do not believe that this charge has ever been true
of any, much less of all. Or if any Christian has at any time and for any reason disobeyed
the laws, withheld his taxes when they have been demanded, or neglected any duties which, as
a citizen of Rome, he has owed to the Emperor, or any representative of him, then so far he
has not been a Christian. Christ's kingdom is not of this world--though, because we so often
and so much speak of a kingdom, we have been thought to aim at one on earth--it is above; and
he requires us while here below to be obedient to the laws and the rulers that are set up over
us, so far as we deem them in accordance with the everlasting laws of God and of right; to
pay tribute to whomsoever it is due; here in Rome to Cæsar; and, wherever we are, to be loyal
and quiet citizens of the state. And the reception of his religion tends to make such of us
all. Whoever adopts the faith of the gospel of Jesus will be a virtuous, and holy, and devout
man, and therefore, both in Rome, in Persia, and in India, and everywhere, a good subject.

'We defend not nor abet, great Emperor, the act of that holy but impetuous and passionate man,
who so lately, in defiance of the imperial edict and before either remonstrance or appeal on
our part, preached on the very steps of the capitol, and there committed that violence for
which he hath already answered with his life. We defend him not in that; but neither do we
defend, but utterly condemn and execrate the unrighteous haste, and the more than demoniac
barbarity of his death. God, we rejoice in all our afflictions to believe, is over all, and
the wicked, the cruel, and the unjust, shall not escape.

