 Despite be one
of the richest bankers in Madrid, had refused without fur store, and that this trade, compared with
letters and public purposes that the house had out, soon he represented. Calderon was a different
type of Salabert banker. Had a temperament essentially conservative, timid to a fault for
business, preferring Always small for big gains when it is achieved at risk. Enough intelligence
limited, cautious, hesitant, thorough. Any new company seemed crazy. When fail to see a partner in
some, smiled mischievously and gave himself Rejoice for the great talent he was gifted. If
surrendered gains, shaking his head muttering with relentless pessimism: "The fry will laugh."
Economic, rather greedy, to a degree scandal at home. If she wore to class on a force had been
pleading his wife, made fun of his friends, and especially because he had become convinced that
needed to enjoy a certain prestige outside if it was to compete with the many intelligent bankers
established in court. Times had changed a lot since his father hoarded a significant portion
of the turns in the plaza. But after taking care purchased with such dedication to the preservation of
furniture, such finesse required monitoring the servants, his wife and their children, they really
were all slaves of those expensive devices. For if we in the car, you can not imagine the
fear, countless agitations that cost him. Whenever the driver told him that a horse was unfettered,
was a disappointment. Trunk had a pretty French mares price. The pampered as much or more than
their children. Sacábalas a walk in the evenings, but not leading to the theater for fear of
pneumonia. He preferred that his wife was on foot or by cab, to expose themselves to the loss of
one of them. Needless to say, if one is her sick, what was in our bank. The concern, dejection
on his face was painted. Visitábala often, stroking, and often helped the driver and the vet
to the priests, but consisted of putting enemas. To heal the sick there was no humor in the
house.

He was a husband cominero. For that perhaps he was right. The apathy of his wife was so great that
if he did not take charge of taking the account to cook and manage
the keys cabinets, God knows how would walk home.

Mariana had neither running anything. Its role was the daughter of a family, and accepted it
without regret. Another woman humiliated anyone believe going to need every moment to her
husband for the smallest chores domestic life. She juzgábalo natural, and above all very comfortable
when the sordid economy Calderon did not tighten. The once silently protesting against the exclusive
centralization of administrative powers was his mother, thin lady, sunken eyes, whom we mentioned
in the first chapter. Such protests were not, However, frequent or lasting. In the background
was a perfect agreement between the mother and son. The old widow provincial merchant, who had helped
to carve its capital, was still mistress of order and the economy, rather, was even more stinging
him. For this had not ever been able to live with his son, his excessive spending, and especially
waste, outrageous whims Clementina, irritated, bitter all moments of existence. Calderon's
home, his role was to guard or inspector servitude, which played so marvelously. His son lay
confidence in it. Thanks to this and that Mariana expected to improve in the will, the more
kept considerations relating to it.

Salabert was, at bottom, so greedy as Calderón and almost as shy, but much smarter. His shyness
was offset by a good dose of bravado: his greed for knowledge men deep. He knew well that the
device, the ostentation of wealth, influence significantly even in the minds of the more carefree, contributed
significantly to inspire the confidence to undertake major companies.

Hence the luxury with which he lived, his palace, trains, famous dances from time to time gave Madrid
society. Calderon's character inspired by a profound contempt: while awaking him good humor. Seeing
the smallness of his friend growing up, gazed larger than that actually was and felt great
satisfaction. Judged not only more skilled, beating (Only positive benefits brought him), but
generous and liberal, almost a prodigal.

Penetrated snorting in the dark Street store in San Felipe Neri, leaving as usual stunned, killed,
annihilated dependents, for whom the Duke of Requena not only was the first man in Spain, but
a supernatural being. Producíales his view it impression of fear and excitement, fear and fervent
adoration to the great Japanese Mikado.

And if not prostrate and buried his face in the dust like those, at least he blushed to the ears
and not successful in a few minutes to put pen to the paper or pay attention to what the customer
told them. They looked to signs fear and they began to quietly what everyone knew too well: "The
Duke!" "The Duke!" "The Duke!"

The Duke rose, as usual when by chance was there, without deigning to throw a glance and went straight
to the small apartment where Calderón used to be. Long before reaching he began to say aloud:

-
Wow, Julian! When leaving this cave? This is not a banking house,
is one block away.

No shame that comes to visit. Ugh! But flay here also cattle, or what? There is an unbearable stench.

Calderón
occupied at the end of the store, a corner from the rest by a screen table painted with a
little door spring.

He could hear, then, all the words of his friend before it pushes the screen.

- What is it, man! - Said something piqued by becoming aware of the
invective dependents -; Dukes and we are not all the millions we are
entangled in the feet.

- What a million!

"It takes millions to have an office clean and comfortable? What must confess it hurts you
spend a dime on tidy. I've told you many times, Julian, you are a poor life will be. I'll
be a thousand richest real whenever you a thousand dollars; because
I spend it.

Calderon groaned some protests and continued working. The Duke, still wearing the hat, let himself
fall into the only chair that there was lined with white bandana, or it must have been white.
Now had an indefinable color yellow to amber, green ash and bottle, strong black accents in
places to support the head and hands.

There were also three or four lined sidewalks of the same and in the same state, a pine bookshelf
full of bundles, a small box of values, an ancient writing table in walnut and covered in black
rubber and behind it a rough and greasy chair where he sat the head of the house. That small
apartment was clarified by a window with bars. For pedestrians could not register it had curtains
that, in addition to being the most regular and cheap in gender, offered the curious circumstance
of each too long and the other as short was missing about a quarter to cover the entire glass down.

-
But man, do not let you move in that happy home fur trade, which is not worthy a man of your performance
and your fortune.

- Fortuna ... fortune - Calderón muttered while looking at the paper he was writing -. And I
know that talking about my fortune .... If we were to liquidate,
who knows what would!

Calderon never confessed his money: he enjoyed in lie on the ground. Any reference to annoyed
him extremely rich.

On the contrary, Salabert liked to give in face his millions and represent the Nabob, of course,
to the lowest possible cost.

- In addition - he went with a bad mood - everybody look at what goes in, but no serving what
emerges. The expenses you have are increasing. Do not know what I spent this year, will we see?

-
Not much - said the duke, smiling contemptuously.

- Not much?

Then spend seventy-five thousand dollars, and we're still in November.

-
What? - Said the Duke with deep surprise -.

No way.

- You heard me.

- Go, go, do not put me finger on the eyes, Julian
.... Unless in those seventy five thousand dollars are including the
cost of the house you are making in the Oven Mata.

- Well, naturally.

At Duke he was seized with such a blow to hear this laughter, he almost
drowns.

Cayósele smoking. The face, usually purple, now that was scary. The fit of coughing that came,
accompanying laughter was so intense, that it seemed to subside dam congestion.

- Man, it's funny! Grace has a lot of that! - Said after the flows between laugh and cough
-. I had not happened so far .... From here on out will include in the cost of my house all
purchases of securities and all that builds homes. I will appear spending more than a king.

The so frank and loud laughter of the Duke ran extremely upset and Calderon.

- Do not know what is that laugh .... If you leave the box, on the
expenditure side is .... All However, Antonio else knows the crazy
in your house that the sane on others.

The duke, in some time now, often visits his friend and companion. Began to make the thread to
lure the business of river mines. Approaching the time that the auction was to be effected. Then
needed to have some shareholders consideration. D. Julian was, both representing the capital,
for his character same. Enjoyed in the business world fame cautious of suspicious better. So
that the fact of taking part in any speculation of security clearances, and this was what Salabert
needed. He would not bother, then, very hard and changed the conversation. With great flexibility,
with the refinement it had under its rough bark, he knew put in a good temper praising his
foresight in a failed business where it was left to catch, skinning other tacitly recognizing enemies
and merchants on their superior talent and penetration. When I had it fretted, spoke to him for
the third or fourth time, in vague terms, business mine. Ofrecíalo as an inaccessible ideal
to put him in appetite. If one day off possible to buy the mine, what a great business! She
had never known a lighter in his life. The worse was that the Government was not prepared
to let go. However, f. .., with a little skills and working well, perhaps over time .... Necesitábanse
then some men who had no objection to a good capital investment. If not was in Spain, go abroad
to look ....

Calderón, to hear about a business, such as snails cringed when touched. That of was so fat
now, for the undecided data supplied him with the Duke, who was forced to getting hit in the
shell. So Salabert began to specify a little, stood grim and dark, showed himself wary and restless,
as if he were then to demand the same amount exorbitant.

When he had finished his long speech, a bit incoherent, that seemed
more like a monologue, Duke rose sharply.

- Well, Julianito, I'm
outta here to the Bank.

At the same time took out another cigarette from the flask, and without
offering, because he did not smoke, lit by formula, then let them
go off at once for biting.

D. Julian breathed with satisfaction.

- You always this hectic activity! - Said, smiling and extending his
hand.

- Always follow the money!

When I was about to transpose the door, he remembered that Calderón
could use this visit.

- Hey, Antonio: I have a lot of london there
.... Do you?

I give you cheap.

- I do not need now. How do you yield?

- Forty-seven.

- Do many?

- Eight thousand pounds in all.

- Sorry I did not need them.

It's a good time. Goodbye.

Trasladóse the Bank, attended the meeting, and after nine thousand
dollars effective heel Urreta out with his friend, another famous
bankers of Madrid.

Arriving near of the Puerta del Sol, shook hands in farewell.

-
Where are you going? - Asked Salabert.

- I go from here to Calderon's
house to see if you can give me London.

- It is useless to the ride
- said sharply the first -.

All that was just me taking them.

- Man, sorry. How about how he has?

- Forty-six, ten.

- They are not cheap, but I badly needed and yet the take.

- Do you make you miss it? - Salabert said while throwing his arm over shoulders.

- Really.

- Well I'll be your Providence.

How much do you need?

- Pretty.

Ten thousand pounds at least.

- I can not much, but for eight thousand, you can send this afternoon.

Urreta's face lit up with a grateful smile.

- Man, I can not afford! ... You will be short too ....

- Not as much as you .... But even if .... You know that he loves. Are you the only talented
Gipuzkoa have stumbled so far.

At the same time as you take hugged, gave affectionate pat on the shoulder. Estrecháronse hand again,
and after Urreta burst into phrases of gratitude, to which answer Salabert in that tone campechanote
sharp and both enhances the merit of any service, goodbye.

The Duke immediately took a cab.

- A la calle de San Felipe Neri, number ....

- Okay, Duke - answered
the coachman.

He raised his head to look at him the hero.

- Hello! Do you know me?

And without waiting for the answer he got in and closed the door.

- Julian .... Julian - shouted to his friend before opening the desktop screen -. I come to make a
favor .... How lucky you, damn you! Send me those London home.

- Welcome - cried the banker with triumphant smile -. Do you need?

- If, f. ..., yeah! I've always needed me to do what you should you drop .... Goodbye ....

And without going into the office vacated the screen that had held spring and left. Gave signs the
driver of a hotel in the neighborhood Monastery and leaned at an angle, biting and puffing
his cigar with evident satisfaction. Experimentóla our banker after committing this rascality,
after stripping to his friend a few Calderón pesetas, as the just concluded an act of justice
or charity.

His imagination, always alert for cases where there was money, wandered, as the carriage drove
him to the Hippodrome the various businesses through that was committed, but most notably stopped
mine in the rivers. The combination of Llera seemed to him getting better. However, had its weaknesses.
To reinforce the thinking was applied until the car stopped at the gate of a small hotel cheap
to build, with very ornate plaster and wood that made him resemble the works of confectionery.

Hastened
the doorman to open with compliance. Saved in three steps the tiny garden. Al climb the few stairs
on the ground floor out the door a young maid.

- Hello, Petra: What about your love?

- Sleep yet, Duke.

- Well, are the twelve - she pulled her stopwatch -.

I'm going up anyway.

And passing in front of her, entered the octagonal antesalita. Despojóse the overcoat that got
home and was responsible for hanging. He climbed to the main floor. Entered the bedroom where was a
cabinet room, separated by columns and a brocade curtain. Was furnished with a wealth of dubious
taste. Instead of the label that prints any person, if not entirely vulgar, the decoration
and adornment of their rooms, watched the hand of the furniture maker
to comply commission that has been given, according to the current
pattern.

The wooden doors of the balcony were open.

The light came in through a transparent representing a chocolate-colored landscape. The walls
were padded with yellow damask, gilded chairs were like a center
and a bedside cupboard to put goodies.

Watched in this room, belonging to a woman, the same disorder that usually present rooms for
students or military. Various clothing, petticoats, corsets, stockings, walked scattered chairs.
On the rich velvet carpet had some spit and cigar tips.

In the delicate side table in the center with a liquor bottle almost empty and bowls out of place.
The Duke looked grim at this liquor and gently lifted the curtain of the bedroom. In neat
bed of ebony inlaid with ivory, lay a young white skin, very white,
and black hair, very black.

Rested with abandonment no finesse, in a position of well-fed animal.

Even in the dream is possible to know status and spirituality of
the individual.

Salabert had a moment the curtain suspended.

Then held her carefully, and sitting on had an armchair beside the
bed, began to look intently at the beautiful sleeping.

Because it was indeed beautiful and sublime degree.

His features, notably accurate and sensitive: Greek profile, small
and pretty face, straight nose, a bit thick red lips, the skin, a
wonder of nature, a mixture of alabaster and mother-of roses and milk,
below which ran abundant and rich life.

Hair, black and bright, were loose, staining with scented oil batiste
pillow.

Despite the cold weather, one arm and almost half out of the sheets.

True that in the cabinet burned with vivid, chimney fire. The arm was completely naked and was all
the more beautiful and better turning likely to be in the genre. But the hand that was at the
end of this arm did not correspond its beauty. It was a hand where this idleness had failed to
erase the traces of past work, small hand, but deformed fingers and
aporretados solid, hand elevated commoner suddenly the patricians.

Although the banker did not move, the fixity and eagerness in his eyes fixed upon the young exercised
on it the usual magnetic influence.

After a few minutes changed his position, sighed heavily and opened
his eyes, which were black as ink.

Fijáronse an instant vague expression of amazement at Duke, and closing them again, muttered an
exclamation of road, while sinking his face into the pillow. Then, as if suddenly crossed by
his mind the idea that I had done something bad, turned around, opened his eyes again and He
smiled:

- Hello! Is that you?

At the same time held out his hand. The Duke shook, and rising from his chair gave a loud kiss
on the cheek, saying:

- If you want to let you sleep longer. I have
not been more than a kiss.

But there was one, but a good portion
of it being implemented on both cheeks. The young frowned in disgust
of those caresses, which come from an old should not to be accepted
of him. In addition, it has been said that the lips of the Duke, the
effect of mania biting the snuff, used to be dirty.

Quito, Quito!
- He finally rejected -. I sobes more. I've kneaded enough yesterday
afternoon. I have washed thrice. I took upon me a bottle of white
rose and yet twelve o'clock night I smelled bad.

- The smell of snuff.

No:
I like the smell of snuff. Smell old.

This output brutal aroused
no indignation of the Duke and was to be expected. Laughed and gave
an affectionate pat on the cheek.

- I do not come cheap kisses me.

Nor
is cynical altered replica of the beautiful, that in the same tone
in a bad mood said:

- You bet. And the older you are, you will emerge
more expensive .... Give me a cigarette.

The duke took the clip.

-
Do not bring more than tobacco.

- Do not want that .... There, on
that thing to write, must have. Bring.

The banker took over a small
desk inlaid some cigars and presented. The girl developed one with
the skill of an accomplished smoker and lit the match that Duke was
quick to serve. It tried again bring his lips to the beautiful nasty
face of the smoker, but was repulsed with violence.

- Mira, or you're
standing still or go! - She said with energy -. Sit there.

And he
pointed to the armchair next to the bed.

The banker dropped into
it, looking at the girl with big bulging eyes, expressing fear.

-
You are an increasingly surly cat. You abuse my love, or rather, my
craziness.

He had, indeed, one of the most wanton tempers could be
found. Life had been, in the pretext of women, burning, greedy. Instead
of correcting the years, this hobby was growing up to a nasty habit.
It was noticeable in Madrid. It was known that to meet it, after he
had come to wealth, he had a thousand strange vagaries paid with huge
volumes. He had known and loved by strangers remote countries, them
a Circassian and one black. This passion was really the gate through
which he escaped money like a river. But at the same time was the
only one who did not hurt to spend. The trappings of home caused him
pain, a tingling sharp: he kept for calculation and bravado, but he
weighed in the soul, but apparently something else.

"Then Tha called us all together and said: 'The first of your masters has brought Death into
the Jungle, and the second Shame. Confirming this rumor that never left the house and its failed
to close friends when they went to visit him.

In such circumstances, either by a burst of impetuous temperament or because they lacked among
his close friends who advise him, Clementina was resolved to deal a decisive blow to to resolve the
dispute once and all the problems attached to it. "My father is kidnapped
- he said -.

I go there and throw that woman out of home. "Osorio tried to dissuade her, but to no avail.

One
morning it was move your car to the palace of Requena. Awe from the doorman to open the gate
and meet Miss Clementina, and joy also visible. For, although was not as smooth as the former
florist or so lavish, the sense of justice forced Duke's servants to despise it and respect it.
The proud lady contented to say, without looking at him, "Hey, Rafael,"
and hurried to the stairs.

How's Dad? - Asked the servant found in the hall.

Was so stunned that he could not respond immediately.

- Come on, man! - Repeated impatiently -. What about Dad? Are you in the office or in their Breakfast?

-
Dispense VE ... Mr. Duke is good .... I think that is still in his cabinet ....

At that moment a maid, who since the end of the corridor he saw and
heard their questions, ran all embarrassed to tell the lady.

Clemence also came up with the fast foot ladder the main floor. Before reaching the door of
the cabinet of his father, Amparo was filed before her, pale, staring,
eyes aggressive.

- Where are you going? - His voice slightly hoarse
with emotion.

- Who are you? - Said the woman lifted her head and
looking at her sovereign contempt top to bottom.

- I am the lady
of the house - said the Malaga getting even paler.

- You mean the
kidnapper.

I have no news that there is no lady here.

- Ah! You come to insult me ​​to my own house - said the former florist putting in jars as in
the square.

- No, I come to throw you of it before the police arrive to do so.

- Tute I miss you or me! - Amparo snatched cried with rage, ready to throw on his proud enemy.

- Again I come to you out of this house and the post to usurp - said it calmly threatening, challenging
to the eye.

The Amparo made a motion to throw over it, but stopping suddenly cried
out unrhythmicity voices:

- Pepe, Gregory, Anselm!

Come on, come all. Pepe, Gregory! Throw me this aunt house, which is insulting me!

The cries came some servants, who stopped confused, stunned, staring this strange scene. Also
opened the cabinet door and appeared in her figure Duke's coat and
hat.

Soon he had aged in a surprising way. Had dull eyes, the color down the slopes and flabby cheeks.

-
What is that?

What happens here - asked awkward language. And to see her daughter took a step back and his
whole body shivered.

- This woman, who after asking declare you come to insult me ​​crazy
- shouted Amparo Rabanera shrill angry voice.

- Dad, do not pay attention
- said he was going Clementina.

But the Duke stepped back, and while extending his hands convulsively, he exclaimed:

- Out! Out! Stay away!

- Look, Dad!

- Stay away, ungrateful, wicked! - Repeated the Duke, trembling voice and melodramatic.

- Out of here, without shame. Do you have the courage to happen after what he has done with his
father? - Malaga screamed encouraged by the attitude of old.

Clementina was frozen, pale, looking at her eyes where terror was painted more than anger.
There was a moment when he almost lost consciousness when it all
began to spin around.

But his pride made a supreme effort and remained stuck the ground, motionless as a plaster, and
so white. Then he turned slowly on his heels for fear of falling and took a few steps toward
the stairs, which began to walk down hesitantly. His father, excited by the shouts of Amparo,
walked to the railing and kept repeating, increasingly angry, extending his hand trembling as
a theatrical beard:

- Out! Outside of my house!

Meanwhile, his beloved spewed a string of injuries accompanied by movements of the hips, sarcastic
laughter and interjection of the repertoire as it is old.

When he got to set foot in the garden, Clementina's cheeks began to take fire. He leaned a
moment on a column of lanterns, and then was given a run as crazy to your car. Mounted it in one
leap and fell into a nervous breakdown. The removed in very bad condition and went to her room
between two maids. When Osorio presented no could learn more than loose and incoherent words of
what had happened. Eight or ten days was bedridden. At last she left such a desire for revenge,
which some thought it was crazy.

The lawsuit, with the habit of revenge she breathed on him, kindled a mighty way. Madrid became a public
event. About the duke was the insanity views found of most illustrious doctors, Spanish and
foreign. The one you put an idiot, degenerated and brutalized that he had not where to get it.
Others declared that his intelligence shone ever more clear, it was a marvel of insight and good
sense. But all agreed to require, for their opinions, outrageous fees. The press spoke in favor
of either party. Clementina subsidized newspapers.

The Amparo (because Duke, in fact, was no longer in a state to address the issue) had purchased others.
And from the columns of them said more or less veiled, thousand insolence; were removed to allegorical
stories surfaced in many scandalous stories.

In this war the daughter had the worst part: I could not be as liberal as the mistress. Amparo
Bank distributed the tickets hand over fist. Instead, he helped creditors Clementina her husband,
her friends Pepa Frias, who kept a time to come and go visiting the doctors, judges, journalists,
the Countess of Cotorraso, the Marquise de Alcudia, Calderón his brother, his friends and Jiménez
Patiño Arbós general, and most of all, as who else was required, her lover Escosura. This,
for the high office he held, exercised considerable influence on
the course of litigation.

What excitement! How busy and miserable life! Clementina was not eating, not sleeping, always
at conferences with the lawyer, the prosecutor, always writing letters. Even in their gatherings
or meals could not speak about something else. So that some, indifferent, murmured and were deserting
from home. But others managed to communicate his fire: passionate and his partisans were brought
and had stories and gave advice and burst into shouts of indignation every time heard that
name anywhere in the Amparo.

Although Clementina, in general, was not sympathetic the society of Madrid for his haughty character,
and the order represented the right and moral, his cause was popular. Helped make it the stupidity
of his enemy, which presented everywhere trying to dazzle with his estate, taking his hand that
old imbecile and degraded.

Because the Duke of Requena crumbling before our eyes.

After a period of excitement and violence in that looked like a madman, came the flattening
of the nerves. Slowly approached to complete idiocy. He lost his quickness of mind and to the right
understand the business. Remained in the hands of Llera. This was not bad, but it's Amparo be swallowed
them with authority, because he did nothing but nonsense. There was, however, cunning enough to
hide the madness of his beloved. The days when he looked overexcited or inconsistent in his
words teníale locked. Just when I was more calm and rational ventured out with him in the car
and trying not to speak with anyone.

But in the end such precautions were unnecessary. Salabert ran away from home in different public
occasions and gave signs of his alienation. Once he was found at four of the Carabanchel morning
near. Again entered into a jewelry store, and after adjusting some jewelry subtracted others
believe that did not see him. The jeweler said it perfectly, but did not tell because he knew
nothing. What he did was send the bill of jewelry stolen from the Amparo. This was quick to
pay and came in person to beg him not to disclose the fact.

He soon persuaded the public that, despite the views of doctors found,
Duke's insanity was obvious.

He began to whisper that the court's ruling so declare. Two days before it was published, the
Amparo left the palace after it Requena as a sack. It took many valuables. His estate had risen
to a portion of millions. In anticipation of what might happen had taken the Bank of Spain and
was in foreign securities. A few days later he went to France. Some months later Madrid circulated
the news that she married the Marquis de Dávalos.

The same afternoon of the day fled for protection (because flight can be called) of the house of
Requena, Clementina and her husband came and took possession of it. He found his father in
a sad state, complete idiot. He spoke as if he had seen the day before and had not passed nothing,
I asked with great interest by the Amparo and even sometimes confused with it. The heart of
the daughter, it must be confessed, did not suffer much. That unfortunately does not entirely extinguished
that aroused resentment in his heart the memory of the days amarguísimos
that just happened.

His revenge was not happy because I saw the Amparo rich and happy. I wanted at all costs to criminal
prosecution, while her husband met with fortune colossal fell into his hands, did not care
less or more of such a thing.

The Duke of Requena, the famous banker who was attentive and admired for twenty years Spanish
and foreign merchants, the man who had given so much to say to the public and the press, soon
to be passed in the palace of Osorio a useless and worthless junk.

Not to give than to murmur, or more sure of himself, or perhaps by a vague fear that could be cured,
spouses Osorio was sent to an asylum: tuviéronle saved at home. Salabert had become a child. He
was not worried as anything other than the food. He spoke little. Spend hours rubbing her
nails or a hand with the other, leaving escape from time to time strange cries, inarticulate.
I had about a servant who, when showed disobedient and got mad, he was punished. But who had
more respect, and even real fear is true, was his daughter. Clementina was enough for him and he
looked grim Dry address a rebuke to subdue the madman suddenly. In contrast, there was If any of
his son.

When the servant who looked after him, seeing him calm was to recreate a little with his companions,
the fool I used to wander the palace's rooms looking with attention
to mirrors.

His main hobby was to collect bits of bread and pile was in a corner of his room until there
were rotting. When the pile was too big the servants came to collect them in baskets and thrown
to the garbage truck. Entering his room and miss him raged. Guardian
needed to use any means violent to get back to the peace.

One afternoon, shortly after lunch the gentlemen (the crazy lunch
in her room), were meeting three or four servants in the large dining
room of the palace cleaning the dishes and placing in the windows.

Were in good humor and frolicked with whipped changing cloths had
in hand, running around the table and dropping loud laughter.

The lady I could hear them because I was up. In this crazy appeared at the door with a tray
in hand, the tray I used to carry the crumbs, as a precious commodity
to your room.

He wore a robe and brought greasy and bareheaded. But this head, despite his white hair, was not
honored. Cheeks pale, earthy, lips bruised and fallen, the expressionless look dull, old age
did not reflect that has its beauty, but the hideous decrepitude of the service provided and the signal
of idiocy, always terrifying.

Stood for a moment to see so many people undecided. Finally he decided to enter, was right the
drawers of the dressers and began eagerly to register removing all crusts had and putting them
on his tray. The servants watched him smiling with a quizzical look.

- Look, look - "one -.

When invited us to gazpacho, lipendi uncle?

The old man ignored: continued painstaking in their work.

- Gazpacho, no - said another -.

I'd better invite us to a hundred-peseta note.

- You do not mind conv. A Anselmo, yes - "said the duke stammered and looking very angry.

- Takes! I know why ConVidas Anselmo, because it goes with the package. Worry, that if and why
they invited me.

The others laughed. The youngest of them, a boy of sixteen years, seeing him with a tray filled and ready
to go, went back, and was giving him a slap jump all the crumbs that fell scattered on the floor.
The Duke was terribly angry, and shouting in anger, and pouring looks cornered beast, threw
himself down and put to pick up the crumbs again, while the servants celebrated with gaiety grace
his companion. When he had them all in the tray and ran out the door to escape their jokes,
the same predator went after him and threw it again. The fury of the mad was not limits. Tumultuous,
gnashing his teeth, his eyes shining, he threw himself on the seducer; but the others held
him. The poor man then began to throw insane roar that had nothing humans.

At that moment he heard the voice in the running sore of Clementina.

- What is that? What are you doing Dad?

The servants released the mad and were disappearing from the dining room to run.

XVI

# Love is extinguished. #

The Loves Raymond were imprisoned by a thread. In recent times, Clementina, entirely seized
by the desire for victory and revenge, he hardly heeded. Could be seen often, because the young
did not stop frequenting the house, but their dating was becoming increasingly rare. When he
complained that his abandonment timidly, he apologized to the lady's
jealousy Escosura.

As much as was I could not convince him that their old were torn relations, was watching furtively,
watched his steps, when you least expect would find out the truth.

"You see, the trick would be very ugly, would be right to get angry."

Poor Raymond was so lost that he accepted as good or seemed to accept these reasons. In the
midst of abject living happily forging the illusion that he preferred his idol, I loved him in the
depths of the soul, which only had relations with the minister for the interest litigation. It helped
keep him in it that occasionally Clementina, by plucking perhaps momentarily to their desires and
anger, he wrote a little note saying, "Today at four ", or" Go in the afternoon at the Casa
de Campo ". And in these interviews, Rush sudden whim and joyful remembering the first stages of
love, tender and showed affectionate, he swore eternal fidelity. Oh, God! What infinite happiness
which felt heavenly the young entomologist heard such oaths of those beloved lips!

But all happiness is short in this world. His, brief. The day after that rapture of love, its
owner was cold as marble, dismissive, and even worse, reserved in long talks with Escosura
back corner of the room. Innocently thought that the end of the litigation would change his
luck, Clementina, and the minister need not, would again be entirely his own, without that odious deal
that he was saddened even more that he was ashamed.

Their hopes vanished like smoke. The lawsuit was finished as happier for her, and yet, far
from dismissing her official lover, every day is showing more respectful
to him and in love.

One morning, two months after the dispute failed, received a little note that said: "I'm going
this afternoon at two." He jumped up the heart.

More than two weeks ago that his beloved entresuelito not appear
by the Caballero de Gracia.

At one I was waiting for her. Y discerned in the distance, ran to open it with the same emotion as
if it were a queen and with much more tenderness.

She presented herself acknowledged, affectionate, welcomed their living and passionate caresses.

After
an hour, being the two sat on the small couch where so many conversations
love had gone, she gave him a long look compassionate and said with
a sad smile:

- Guess what, world?

... Today is the last day and we are alone together.

The young man looked at her with amazement, not understanding or not
wanting to understand.

- Yes, ... I can not continue to maintain
these relationships secret with you .... Escosura and been warned
and has rightly offended a lot .... I also think having two lovers
ugly .... That's for Lola Madariaga.

So far I've gone through it because I understand that you loved me and that I love very much .... I also
have always shown true love. You can not complain.

If I wanted a man of heart is to you .... The proof of this is what
they have lasted our relationships .... But nothing is eternal in
the world .... Since our loves are as average time for waste (because
love is exclusive and does not support deals), the best is that they
break completely ... Just as well I'm getting old, World .... You
are a boy.

If I did not give voice apart, sooner or later would give you. This is the life .... Today,
I still find beautiful, are the latest flare-ups.

I need to say goodbye to the we have done many crazy things .... But always remember with pleasure,
I swear .... You reprensentarás in my life, perhaps the happiest
time ... Let us from now on good friends.

Would have an immense pleasure to be helpful in debieses me a favor of importance and I owe
you many moments of joy ...

The boy heard all these outrages motionless, stunned.

A dense covering his pallor was factions.

- But you talk so? - Concluded by asking in a trembling voice.

- Yes, dear, yes, I speak of really - said the lady with the same sad smile and protective.

-
That can not be! ... Can not be - he uttered it with energy, rising from his seat and looking
angry and scared at the same time.

That look was enough to stir the pride of Clementina.

- Go if you can be - at twang said it was ironic that at that time
of cruelty fierce.

Froze. He stood a moment looking at her with an indefinable expression
of anguish and terror was finally dropped at his feet with folded
hands, exclaiming:

- Oh, my God, do not kill me! Do not kill me!

Clementina's
face and voice softened as well.

- Come on, do not be a child, World
.... Arise .... It had to happen .... You will find women worth much
more than me ....

But the young man had hugged her knees tightly
and kissed them with transport frantic and the same foot, his body
shaken by sobs.

- This is horrible! Is horrible! - Repeat -. What
made you so you kill me?

We, World, going .... Top .... Let's formal
- she said softly, caressing hair -. Do not you realize it's ridiculous?

-
What I care about the ridiculous - replied the miserable, sobbing,
her face stuck the silk of her dress -. For you I would look ridiculous
in front of the world.

Clementina made efforts to calm him down,
but no pity. There is no beast more cruel than a jaded woman. It let
off steam for a while, and when I saw more sedate, rose from the couch.

-
I really appreciate that sentiment, World .... I've had to struggle
a lot time with my heart to leave you solved ....

- Lie! - Said he
still kneeling, with his elbows on the couch -. If you had wanted
would not be so cruel, so vile!

The lady remained silent for a moment
looking at him in the back with burning eyes. Finally, overcoming
compassion, said:

- I forgive such rudeness by the state of exaltation
in which you stand. As much as I Injuries will never get to stop always
remember you fondly .... Someday when you and me 've completely forgotten,
yet your picture and the happy times we spent together be engraved
in my heart .... But now it should be formalized - added a change
of tone -. Conclude in a dignified way, Ray .... I'll do the favor
of taking a car, go to your house and bring all that I have addressed
letters to burn. I do not keep any yours. You know that the break
in the receipt.

Raymond did not budge. After waiting a few moments,
Clementina approached him from behind bowed silently and put both
hands on the cheeks, telling her sweet accent:

- Dumber! Osorio had
the bad idea to bring the two girls at school had Chamartin, a ten and over eleven years,
to spend some time with them. The poor things had to leave earlier than he had promised his father,
because Clementine was so busy just could set them attention. This outraged both Osorio, a day
without saying goodbye his mother, got into the car and took himself to school. Of course that night,
when Clementina back, on this occasion there was a violent scene between the spouses. Raimundo
occupations also had with her lover. But he was childish to enjoy perspective of dance, which planned
to attend dressed as a page of the Catholic Kings. Was an idea that provided Clementina. The
model was taken from a famous painting that had in the Senate. She was in love with the portrait
of Ms Margaret of Austria, wife of Philip III, made by Pantoja. It ordered a black velvet
dress just too tight at the waist, with pink interior skirt embroidered with silver. This costume
was very appropriate to enhance the grace of his figure and the majestic beauty of her face.

The Duke also worked for the least delicate of the preparation, erection
of stage to the orchestra, which was placed against the wall dividing
the two major adjoining ballrooms, surrounding plants and shrubs,
in the arrangement of the wardrobe, in laying carpet in the transfer
of furniture, etc. Salabert was a terrible Overseer for their workers,
a real mayoral wit.

Do not let them rest: I required a careful incessant: I never felt good in anything. It was a
day of moving a cabinet ebony carved from the living room was going to be talking to the viewing
room to play. The workers, led by master carpenter, it had suspended, while the duke recommending
continued attention with a string of expletives that let out darkly between the cigarette and her lips
twisting, nauseating.

- F. ... slowly! ... Slowly you, fool, that of long noses! ... Careful with that lamp .... You
down a little. Pepe ... F. ..., do not be ass down more! ... Eh! Eh! top now ....

Upon arrival at the opening of a door, the teacher, seeing that it
was easy to hurt, I cried

- Watch your hands!

- Beware of relief,
F. ...!-- rushed screaming Duke -.

The last thing I care to me are your hands, Babieca!

One of the workers looked up and thrust a indefinable look of hatred
and contempt.

When the furniture was in place, the Duke had the horses and headed to their rooms to remove dust.
 Clementina, between joyous laughter, embraced
him and covered his face with kisses, exclaiming:

- Little Boy, you're delicious!

X

# A bit of civil law. #

It was very hectic morning at the offices of Salabert. They made a payment of consideration. The
Duke had gone in person to the box to the cashier presence and help in the task of have tickets.
Despite his years handling money, never played pay an amount that will rise a little hands tremble.
Now I was nervous, attentive, crispadamente biting smoking and no
spitting.

Her mouth dried. On several occasions drew attention to the employee to believe that spent
two tickets instead of one, but was wrong at all.

The cashier was diestrísimo in his office. When finished, the Duke went to his office, where
he was awaiting M. Fayolle, the famous importer of foreign horses, provider all the aristocracy
of Madrid.

- Bonjour, monsieur - roughly the duke said slapping him on the back -. Does it come you to fit another
nag?

- Oh, Duke, the horses that I have sold are not nag, no. The animals mecores I've never had it
has taken you - he replied with a foreign accent, smiling a slavishly
M. Fayolle.

- Waste of Paris is what you bring me.

But do not think that I cheated.

I know it time, monsieur, I know for some time. Only I can not see that face and as cheerful
as frescota no surrender.

M. Fayolle smiled opening her mouth to his ears, revealing a big yellow teeth.

- The face is the spec of the soul, Duke.

Confiansa can have in me that I will not give anything not exceeding.

Do Pollio has gone wrong?

- Medianejo.

- Come on, you win joking! The other day I saw him on the street of Alcala hooked the phaeton.
Sake of world stopped to watch.

They talked for a while horses that Duke had bought.

This put blemishes at all. Fayolle enthusiastically defended the amateur and merchant. In a
moment of pause said taking out his watch:

- I will not bother you more .... Cuentesita came to collect the last.

The Duke's face darkened.

Between laughing and then said angrily:

- But, man, they are not happy but you never sacándole one money!

At the same time put his hand into his pocket and pulled out his wallet. M. Fayolle always smiled,
saying, I was sorry, because the Duke was a poor and did not like
asking anyone to take alms, etc., etc. A portion of little jokes that
the banker does not seem to listen, attentive to count tickets.

Had seven hundred pesetas and handed, while pressing ringing for an extended dependent on receipt.
Fayolle also attended and said:

- It is wrong, Duke. The pressures of the horse was four thousand. Here there more than three
thousand.

The Duke gave no signs of hearing. With drooping eyelids, puffing his cigar and walking a another
angle of the mouth, remained silent and kept the portfolio again after having tight with a rubber
band.

- There are five hundred pesetas, Duke - Fayolle repeated.

- How?

Are there missing five hundred pesetas? It can not be .... Let's see, tell you again.

The trader told.

- There are three thousand five hundred ....

- You see you! I was not wrong.

- Is that the horse costs four thousand: and we have acoustic.

Duke's face expressed surprise admirably.

- How four thousand? No man, no, the horse costs three thousand.

On that understanding I bought it.

- Sir Duke, you are wrong - Fayolle said getting serious -.

Remember you had remained in the four thousand.

- I remember perfectly. Which has a short memory you .... A watch (addressing the dependent who
came to extend the receipt), one of you come down to the garage and
ask Benigno on what has been adjusted Pollio.

At the same time, seizing the moment in which the employee looked Fayolle, winked expressive.

The driver replied dependent mouth of the horse had been set at three thousand five hundred
pesetas.

So the merchant was angry. I was quite sure that had remained in the four thousand. In that case
it was delivered. Otherwise never have let the horse out block. The Duke left him talk all
they wanted, running only a grunt of course, but without altered little or much. Only when told
to stay Fayolle again with the horse, said with sarcasm:

- Apparently, you found yourself which of the four thousand and want to undo the deal, right?

- Sir Duke, I swear to you by the most sacred thing there is nothing
that .... I'm only sure it is as I say.

The banker will then promptly undertook a loud fit of coughing. You put your eyes burning, crimson
cheeks.

Then he calmly wiped his mouth with a handkerchief and noses, folksy
accent and said:

- Men, do not be stingy.

You is not altered by these miserable pesetas.

But he did not let go. The vendor wanted to take the horse. Neither
could do it.

There a moment of silence.

Fayolle was about to throw everything rolling and shameless, but was repressed whereas nothing would
move, least bring the matter to court. Who would sue for five hundred pesetas and more with
a character like the Duke of Requena? Resigned, then, with flushed cheeks still be fired without
the Duke not to take him very politely to the door, giving loving
pats on the back.

When the hero resumed his seat at the table, under your weary eyelids shone a grin of triumph.
After a few minutes pulled the bell button again:

- Go and see if the duchess is alone in her room or have seen - told servant who came to the point.

While
carrying out the commission remained inactive, with the body thrown back and hands clasped in
an attitude reflective.

- The duchess is visiting with the father Ortega - the servant came to say.

Salabert made a gesture of impatience, and was again lost in his thoughts. Was determined to
hold a conference with his wife about interests. This had never spoken
anything money.

He did not ever believed in the case of giving account of his speculations
and business.

Ms Carmen does not understand anything if you give her.

It was believed absolute master of his fortune without that you pass by the imagination of the
rights she was his wife. But lately a friend opened his eyes.

Speaking of the disease that afflicted the duchess asked naturally,
if he awarded will.

This friend, who was a lawyer, was solved by half of the estate belonged
to Ms. Carmen.

Salabert was deeply worried. Seeing his wife he was afraid dejection. At his death, the relatives
will require half of what he had acquired would be put your nose
in their affairs, even in the most intimate .... A horror!

He consulted his lawyer. The easiest way to dispel those fears and
impotence leave relatives of his wife, was that this hiciese testament
to his favor.

The Duke found it naturalísimo.

In the conference which was to have with her, I propose more diplomatic as he could, so as
not to alarm you about your illness.

He waited, therefore, to review papers entertained until he thought
the time to send again raised whether the father had cleared Ortega.

But when would she entered to tell him that there were a few gentlemen,
including Calderon, who wanted to see him.

The banker frowned.

- Did you say he was home?

- As the Duke does not refuse ever in the morning ....

- F. ...! Damn you! - Murmured horrible expression of disgust. But loudly and then taking campechanotas
and abrupt ways that were peculiar, shouted:

- To pass, to pass
these gentlemen.

Calderon presented, and two other bankers Urreta no less important and well known in Madrid.
The expression of all of them was serious and even sullen. Salabert, without noticing it, began
handing out hugs and pats on the back, making a tremendous noise
with their voices and laughter.

- Good business!

Good deal now hijack four and require a million pesos each .... Oh! Oh! I have crept into the
office four bigger fish that have Madrid ... Four sharks! ... How is that rheumatism, Urreta?
I think you also need a good hull like me .... And you, Manuel, when
you think pop?

... You see your nephew runs a hurry.

The bankers were polite and quiet, trying to cut with a serious attitude that chanzonetas flow.
For no good reason.

About a year ago that had Salabert railroad sold the property to B *** S ***, already in operation
and all his material.

Although not determined in writing, including when convínose come out to auction the railway
from S *** V *** a, however it was linked to the other, physically and economically, Salabert
not submit bid specifications, leaving the business to them. Well, they had just know that
the Duke disregarded his word, he tried to swipe decares: there submitted a corresponding statement
in the auction. The first to speak was Calderón.

- Antonio, you seriously come to fight ....

- No way. "Quarrel with a man as harmless as I am?

...

- Remember very well that when purchasing your train has been agreed,
or rather say, we've vowed not show up at the auction line at V ***
S ***.

- I think I agree ... Admirably!

- Well today we saw with
surprise that a statement is yours ....

- What!

A statement? - Exclaimed in amazement, opening his large eyes bulging -. Who has had such
a hoax?

- No hoax: I myself have you seen his firm - said one of them, the Marquis de Arbiol.

- My signature? No way.

- Amigo Salabert, I tell you that I have seen the signature: "Antonio Salabert, Duke Requena
"- Arbiol replied firmly and very serious.

- No way! Can not be - repeated the Duke getting to walk around the office, dam apparently
violent agitation -. I have supplanted the firm.

The Marquis de Arbiol smiled contemptuously.

- He wore the stamp of his home.

- He wore the label? - Said stopping suddenly -. Then I have replaced the inside my house. Yes,
yes ... Here I have replaced the .... No rogue I know from what gone. I need a hundred eyes ....

And
more and more angry was to press the doorbell button.

- Now you'll see! Now if I see you have won or not .... A watch (addressing the dependent entered),
to be presented immediately Llera and all employees of the office .... Al instantly!

Arbiol glanced at his teammates and shrugged his shoulders with contempt. But the duke, he saw
perfectly the gesture, he would not take care of him, continued growling, snorting, uttering expletives
furiously violent and walking around the room. Until Llera was presented with a group of subjects
he cramped, badly dressed, vulgar physiognomy.

Salabert stood in front of them crossing his arms with energy:

- Let's see, Llera: it is necessary to find out who the rascal who has filed a Statement in my
name, supplanting my signature for railway tender to V *** S ***. Did you know anything about
this?

Llera, after he looked into her face, lowered his head without answering.

-
And you know something?

Huh? Do you know something?

Employees also looked at him intently. Llera then looked down and the Cabora the end without a word.

Salabert
walked his bulging eyes several times by them in theatrical expression of anger, and he exclaimed
at last going to the bankers:

- Did you see clear? No one answers. Between them lies the culprit or culprits! I suspect that
has to be more than one. You lose care, I will give them and I will teach them a lesson .... Yes,
a terrible warning! I will not rest until they send them to prison .... You retire (for employees),
and you can shake the criminals. Soon you will fall upon the weight of justice.

Criminals should be well hardened to judge by the utter indifference with which were those ominous
words spoken with an accent pathetic.

Everyone retired quietly at his apartment and resumed his task, as if the terrible sword of Nemesis
no segarles was coupled to the neck.

The bankers looked at smiling and angry. At last one of them, biting her lip for not laughing,
stretched out his hand with a gesture of contempt:

- Bye, Salabert,
hasta la vista.

The others did the same without saying another word
about it.

The Duke was not fazed.

To dismiss was attentive to the ladder, directing still looks angry
passing employees who received the same offense indifference.

Returning to his office and ignored them all.

Passed between them like an actor going through the racks state after a while on stage.

A few minutes later turned out down to the rooms of his wife. Found her alone, entertaining
read a book of devotions. Ms Carmen, who had always been very devout
in recent times had surrendered completely to religious practice.

The disease is separated each more of worldly ideas, delivering sad
and submissive to the priests.

Never Salabert as obstacle to this devotion, compassionate look at her with indifference, as an
innocent hobby.

But in recent times, some charities grown tired of the Duchess alarmed
a little and was forced to reprimand her paternally.

Used to find his wife submitted, away from all ambition, entirely alien to the success of his speculations,
treated as a girl, but as a faithful dog who occasionally runs his
hand over his head.

Never had hindered that unhappy lady, or their work or their vices. Although his beloved, his
erotic antics in the order were known around the world, Ms Carmen
or ignored or pretended to ignore them.

However, the last Duke's infidelity, the relationship Tell them the
Amparo brought trouble.

Dominant woman delighted in vejarla foul a thousand ways, something I had not done any of their
predecessors. On the tour, when he went with her husband in the car, the Amparo stood at his
side with the former florist brazenly cynical Duke smiles changed
over intelligence.

When the good lady complained gently of this procedure, Salabert
flatly refused, not just their looks and smiles, but every relationship
with that woman.

I did not know by sight. I had never spoken to her. In the theater Real as well. Amparo persisted
in watching all night to the Duke's box.

Then in the bulls, horse racing, sporting a scandalous luxury strongly
calling public attention.

Some well-meaning friends, never missing a lot pitying Ms Carmen learned of the massive expenses
that cost the Duke woman, all extravagance and caprice.

This series of pinpricks suffered in secret, without committing to
anyone but her confessor, had carved lady's health, reducing it to
a state of weakness so that by some miracle was sustained.

Salabert had more to do to repair in such suffering.

Thought that the title of Duchess, and so many accumulated wealth in the palace, Ms Carmen
had to be the happiest woman on earth.

- What does the old lady?

What it does - asking entered in halftone brutal half affectionate
While revealing the profound indifference to his wife inspired him.

Ms Carmen looked up smiling.

- Hello is that you?

Miracle, for here at this time.

- Before he had come to hear from you, if I had said that he was the father Ortega. How you
have slept? Good eh? You bet .... You're not as bad as you think. What That is to surround yourself
with priests as if you were to die?

- Priests are not needed more than when you die?

- Yes, the priests
are necessary to give respectability to the house - said lounged in
an armchair and coarsely spreading legs -.

Without a bit of black cloth, palaces freshly painted like this scream
too .... Only eventually become bothersome: never tire of asking.

They have so many swallows as whales .... I would buy good figurative wins, wax or cardboard,
and would the same effect ....

- Hush, hush, Antonio, do not begin to piffle. Any judge will hear you a heretic, and thank God you're
not.

- What a bargain to be a heretic! What brings value to be heretical and sudden changes ?...--
the subject asked: - How is the Sabbath you have done in the Cuatro Caminos?

He was referring to the nursing home, which was Ms Carmen's chief protector.

- It's going really well. Only the Marquise de Alcudia not want to
continue being treasurer.

Do not know who is to be appointed.

- Of course, that depopulate Saturdays.

- What then? - Innocently asked the lady.

- Because they all leave for Sevilla on broomsticks.

- Bah, bah! Do not make fun of the elderly poor - said laughing -. You and I are also two old
....

- True, true - the banker said smugly getting serious and sad -. We are a couple pitfalls that
one of these days we slipped to another neighborhood without feeling.

He had seen a timely input to the conversation I wanted, was quick
to seize it.

- No, you are strong and robust.

You can still give a lot of trouble in the world .... But I, dear, and I have one foot in the
stirrup.

- They both have, both. In the past sixty days there is no insurance ....

- If those thoughts you used to remember more of God and His holy service work, I am glad that
you had.

- Do you think that not enough work for him, and every year brings
me more than five thousand dollars on masses and novenas?

- Come,
Antonio, do not talk like that!

- My daughter, well think it is there,
but it is also wise to think what happens here .... Look, these days
I was just imagining that if one of us die, which survived him many
entanglements would ....

- Why?

- For the husband and wife are heirs
of each other, and, of course, if we were to die without a will, our
relatives would come to disturb that remain.

- It is easy to remedy.

With it is arranged.

- Precisely what I thought - Duke said panting a lot to show indifference
and poise, she did not feel -. He had thought that rather than test
each one by hand, we did a mutual will.

- What is that?

- A will
in which we mutually instituted heirs.

Ms Carmen looked down at the
book he had in his hand and was silent a moment. The Duke restless,
watched carefully under his drooping eyelids half, biting forward
to the cigar.

- No way - he said after Mrs. seriously.

- What can
not be? Why? - Replied eagerly joining in a little chair.

- Because
I think about leaving for what he has inherited, more or less, your
daughter. So it I have already promised. 

Salabert encounter did
not believe that obstacle. Judged thing done about the mutual will.
It was as shocked as disturbed. But instantly recovering himself,
took a continent serious and worthy to say

- Okay, Carmen. I do not
try to impose my will to yours. You own to leave your property to
whomever you like, even if these goods have been won by me at the
expense of many jobs. Over the years we've been together, issues of
interest have never produced no quarrel between us. I wish to continue
the same thing. The money compared with the affections of the heart,
has no value. The only thing I regret is that another person even
if he is a beloved daughter, I have hurt so much in your love, me
been banished from your heart ....

As he uttered these last words
his voice was altered slightly.

- No, Antonio, not - be quick to
say Ms Carmen -, or your daughter and no one can tear the love belongs
to you .... But consider that you are rich enough without my money,
and that she needs.

- No, do not try to disfigure .... The blow is
given, I feel it in the bottom of my heart - said Salabert in pathetically
touching his left side -. Thirty-five years of life marriage, thirty-five
years sharing sorrows and joys, fears and hopes, not been enough to
conquer the first place in your affection. Everything you say is useless
now. I thought our marriage, life of happiness and love that we have
so many years, was closed by an act which summarized the heir of that
together We won .... The affection of husbands never better demonstrated
than in the last will ....

Salabert's speech took on a tone of moral
uplift that seemed to worry for a moment his wife. However, finally
said softly and firmly at once:

- Although I have not been in my
heart, I want to Clementina like my daughter, the I have always regarded
as such. It seems an injustice to deprive a child of their share of
inheritance.

- But woman! - Eagerly exclaimed the duke - for whom
I want what I have but to my daughter? Let me his heir, and I will
pass it intact and even promise to increase ....

Ms Carmen paused
merely to make a negative head. The Duke up as if seized with a violent
emotion.

- Yes, yes, well I understand. You forgive me some slight
aberrations children of whim foolishness. Seize the opportunity presented
to you for revenge. Okay: meets your revenge, but he knows that I
have not really wanted any woman more than you. At the heart not sent,
Carmen, and if I want to boot heart, my heart would say: "No, you
can I boot it without breaking ...." It's sad, very sad to bring to
life this terrible disappointment .... If you were to die tomorrow
you what God does not consent, many disappointments, many I expect
penalties in addition to the loss of a beloved wife! Perhaps this
poor old man saw pointed out the house where he lived, that has made
her dream to die in the arms of his wife.

The duke's voice at times
altered, his eyes filled with tears. Still continued in this pathetically
for a while. Finally fell as faint in the chair, taking the handkerchief
eyes.

But Ms Carmen, though charitable and sensitive, gave no signs
of being shaken. Previously, steadily, he said:

- Well you know that
none of that is true. I can not avenge, nor would it be strong revenge
all I have to leave your daughter, which only is mine for the love
I have.

The Duke changed his tactics. He looked for a while his wife
with compassion. Finally he said smiling bitterly

- You want a lot
to Clementina, right? ... Well look, the best you can do to give a
great joy is burst the sooner. Osorio is with the poor in smoke. Now
I understand why creditors do not just swallow. What more do they need?" said Mowgli angrily.

"Thou art a man, Little Brother," Akela returned. "It is not for US, the Free Hunters, to tell
thee what thy brethren do, or why." Both
looked the picture in silence a few seconds. Raimundo's eyes trembled two tears. The lady said
at the end:

- How old was your mom?

- Forty-one years.

- I I have thirty-five
- he replied with barely concealed satisfaction.

Raymond turned to her sight.

- You are still young and very beautiful .... But my mother had a fresh complexion despite lead
few years.

His skin was smooth as satin. In the eyes it did not show any fatigue.
Seemed those of a child .... It's natural. Mom's life was gentle and
quiet. Neither his body nor his soul had been spent.

There was observed
indirectly by saying a few swear words to the lady who was present. You
have always been lucky ....

- It is not Fortune who owes his success to the duke.

In his genius, his ability inconceivable is to whom should - said a third herding a stench of incense.

-
No doubt, no doubt - was quick to say the other instead of trying to seize the censer -. The
Duke is the first financial genius to come out in our country. I do not understand how is not
given the Spanish Treasury.

If he does not fix, do not expect salvation us ....

- Well, if I hit a save as successful in the business of rivers, are
the Spanish Aviados - uttered Duke tow moody accent.

- But has the
business gone bad?

- F. ...! for the Government, but for me, I've
made a par actions, I think has not been good.

The Duke has been blamed him as the animal put its administrator, Llera, which he had gone over
his head against all his hunches.

- Men like you should not rely on anyone but his instincts - he said
-.

When it is the business genius ....

And the word genius came at every moment to the lips of the faithful idolatrous calf.

Suddenly appeared at the door of the room followed Clementina Osorio,
Mariana and Calderon.

The four brought the countenance anxious and scared.

His eyes fell at once Salabert to which moved abruptly.

- Dad, listen to a word - he said Clementina.

Salabert highlighted the group and went to meet with others in the
opposite corner.

- That woman is there !...-- it said in an agitated
voice, eyes flashing with anger.

- It's a scandal! - Said Osorio.

-
Some people have already gone, and as they learn, they will all -
he said more calmly Calderón.

- What woman is there? - Duke asked
opening her eyes bulging.

- That woman!

... Amparo that the Malaga - said his daughter looking more contemptuous tone.

- What? - Said the Duke, with deep amazement -.

Have you dared to report that z ---- at the dance? Who has missed? Tomorrow goalkeeper dismissal.

- No, it's the one to fire her right now is ... In seguidita! - Clementina said tripping over by
anger.
- Yes, yes ... now! How so? Daring that shameless to set foot in
this home and such a day! Have you no shame? Have you no shame? What
country are we? But how it happened? The positions of these young people (because they are
in majority) respond admirably to the elegance that shines in all its manifestations of refined
spirit. You have put your neck on the edge of the couch and your feet on a chair, another twist with
the left hand and right mustache fondles a calf below the pants, who remains rested with arms
crossed, who deigns support the soles of her dainty boots in the red velvet chairs.

The Savage Club is rather an arrangement that an English translation (Savage Club). Rather, it
has been translated with a graceful freedom that keeps him alive inside Spanish genius in close
alliance with Britain. In most of the title belongs to the English all the appliance or outside
of society. Members inevitably get the coat by if it is winter nights, the summer smoking if
the servants spend knee-breeches and wig. There an elegant and spacious dining room, arms room,
cabinet de toilette, bathroom and two or three sleeping rooms. Does the club also service cars
and horse owners chair. The Spanish genius is manifested in many internal details. The most in characteristic
is the absence of stamped metal. This gives rise to many strange relationships partners together
and partner with the outside world, which are a complicated and beautiful variety that will not
be found in any other nation on earth. Results, especially a huge development, inconceivable,
that powerful lever with which the nineteenth century led term the most grand and magnificent
of its businesses, the Credit. Realízanse within Wildlife Club of credit as many operations at
the Bank of London. Not only partners provide each other money and play on their words but also
perform same with the club, considered a legal person, and even the janitor at official capacity
and as an individual. Outside the circle, the wild, dragged from their enthusiasm and reverence
for the credit, they do play on almost all its relations with the tailor, the landlord, the
car manufacturer, the importer of horses, jewelry, etc.. no mention here other major operations
in the same class that occasionally performed with a banker or landlord. Thanks, then, to
this invaluable economic element, had become almost unnecessary, between club members, cash,
replacing the former by other means entirely abstract and spiritual, the word spoken or written
word. Lived spent the same as their colleagues and models of London, not pounds or shillings
or ESP or anything.

Clearly, then, the superiority of Spanish over English club in this regard. Also it is about
openness and cordiality with which members treat each other.

Little recently been moved away from the right forms, ceremonies, which characterize severe gentlemen
of Great Britain, giving her treated more local color, bringing it in as possible to our quaint
neighborhood of Lavapies and Wonders. The media, race and time are items which can not be ignored,
so in politics than recreational societies.

The club begins to warm up even after twelve o'clock at night, reaches its peak period at three
in the morning, and from this time begins to decrease.

At five or six remove all holy week in search of rest. During the day usually be little crowded.
Only two or three dozen partners come for the afternoon, before walking to their jets shorts.
Still dull sleep, speak little. They need the excitement of the night to displayed in all its glory
native powers. These seem concentrated in the most noble task of putting the nozzle of a beautiful
caramel color. If the objects of art have been once useful objects, whether art carries with
it the idea of ​​futility as some say, we must admit that members of the Club of the Wild, in nozzle
act as true artists. Hácenlas come from Paris and London, are engraved the initials of their
respective owners and over the crown of count or marquis if the smoker is; guárdanlas in beautiful
boxes, and when it happens to take them out to smoke do so with such care and precautions,
which actually become more annoying than useful objects. There are wild havoc without winning cigarette
smoking on cigarette, just for the pleasure of smoking tip before any of his colleagues. And if not,
at least, no one cares snuff taste. The important thing is to blow the smoke over the sea
foam and you have more color alike. Occasionally they get the fine cambric handkerchief, and
with a delicacy that will honor long time devoted to rub gently while his spirit rests abstracted
all earthly thought. Serious, solemn, harmonious in movement, more partners Distinguished Club
of the Wild suck and blow smoke snuff two to four afternoon. There is in this task somewhat intimate
and contemplative, as in all artistic conception, forcing them to raise and lower eyelids the
pupils to better recreate in the pure vision of the Idea.

In this very high state of mind was our friend Pepe Castro smoked a contained leg of a horse,
when he drew from his ecstatic voice from afar Rafael Alcántara shouted

- "So it is true that you sold the pony, Pepe?

- Few days ago.

-
Is English?

- Is English? - Said looking up at his friend with surprise
and counterclaim -.

No, man, no, the crusade.

- Chico, as not even two months ago that you purchased, did not think
it got rid of it.

- There you'll see - said the beautiful continent
by adopting a mysterious skull.

- Any hidden defects?

- Me, I can
not hide any defects - he said proudly.

And everyone believed, because in this branch of human knowledge had
no rival in Madrid, if not The Duke of Saites, reputed as the first
overseer of Spain.

- Ah, come on, lack of light.

- Nor.

Rafael Alcántara shrugged and began to talk to those near him. He
was a young blond, worn face, small eyes and green, evil and hard.

As a further three four of the day attending the club, entered it,
alternating with all the high aristocracy, without any rights.

Alcantara was a humble family, son of an upholsterer of Main Street.

In no time he had spent the little farm which his father left him
and then lived Game and loan.

In and around Madrid had boasted of it. The condition that kept him open the doors of high society
was his courage and cynicism.

Alcantara was a brave man indeed, had been beaten three or four times
and were ready to do so by the smallest pretext.

He was also a shameless, always spoke disparagingly, even if the
most respectable person, willing to mock the world.

These qualities had indeed acquire great prestige among the young savages. He was treated as an
equal, is He had all the revelry, but no one asked for money.

- My general, you will be like yesterday Tosti, huh? - Ramon Maldonado said addressing Patino.

-
In the romance only, - answered the warrior sensitive after a skilful run long puff of smoke
into his mouthpiece representing a shell mounted on its carriage.

- Do not say that the duo have been wrong.

- Boy, I say!

- Well, sir, then I declare I do not understand a word because I thought
it sublime - said the young man with signs of being bitten.

- This
statement will honor Ramon.

You know you justice - Cobo said Ramirez, who never missed opportunity to bash his friend and rival.

-
Oh yeah, and you alone are the smart! - Said the council strongly -.

Mira, Cobo, here the general because he has reason to speak, are we? ... but you need to shut
up because I spend an ear as a cook.

- But man, why are both Ramoncito sting, as you say something? - Asked
General laughing.

- I do not know - Cobo said giving a hickey on
his cigar while his features contracted with a slight grin -.

If you contradict him angry, and if I repeat what he says the same thing.

- It is understood, boy, is understood! If you already know you're a joker's first force. No
need to work harder in front of these guys .... But it is now, has
given a good pineapple.

- I hold the same as the general.

The duo was very badly sung - he said quietly provocative Cobo.

- So what if you hold one or the other! - And beside himself said
Maldonado -.

If you do not know a note of music!

- Stop! I have more right to talk about music, since they do not like you the piano tinkling.
For I am at least be harmless.

There followed a long dispute between them, living and decomposed by Ramon, quiet and sarcastic
by Cobo, who rejoiced in getting one of their boxes.

Not a little amused also present, becoming a part of the council and others of his competitor more
extending recess.

- Do you know that this evening bat Alvaro Luna?
- Said a weary when they were about the dimes and Councilman diretes
and Cobo.

- I've been told - Pepe Castro responded by closing his
eyes with pleasure, while sucking cigar -.

In the garden of Escalona, ​​right?

- I think so.

- A saber?

- A saber.

- Come on, a more Chirlo - Leon Guzman said from his seat.

- With tip.

- Oh! is another matter.

And the wild present then showed interest in the match.

- Alvaro little strip.

The colonel should take advantage.

It's more of a man, and also with power strip.

- Too - Pepe Castro said taking out his handkerchief after throwing
the tip of rubbing cigar and carefully putting the nozzle.

All eyes turned toward him because he had a reputation for skilful marksman.

- Do you believe?

- Of course. Energy is convenient to a certain limit.

Turning from him, very vulnerable especially when the Sabres have
edge.

If they are cut off, yet the attacks intensifying without rest can
do something.

At least, it is possible to stun the hand.

But when The lead should be beating about the eye.

Alvaro does not throw much, but it is cold, has a close game and
stretches the peak is a beauty.

Not neglect the colonel.

- "The issue has been the sister of Alvaro?

-
Apparently.

- And to him what the hell cares?

- Ps ... there you
will see!

- As there is love, I do not understand ....

- Everything
would be.

- The girl is golden!

This summer in Biarritz, she and the boy put a Fonseca so in the evenings on the terrace of
the casino, it was a matter of taking pictures lit.

- There Cobo, before leaving, also made some pictures in the little gardens solvents.

- Yes, yes, it has committed me that girl! - Cobo said comically desperate tone.

- I did not have much to lose.

From the business you're disgraced Teresa - Alcantara said.

- Always go with the beauty of misfortune - Ramon said with ironic twang.

- You, too, Ramon?

"- Exclaimed with astonishment affected Cobo -. We arrived on time for throw birds to guns.

-
Well, gentlemen, I confess my weakness.

I can not be next to the girl without getting bad - said León Guzmán.

-
Not this girl can not be next to a boy as handsome and as cheerful
as you without getting sick too - Rafael Alcantara said.

- Do I want
to seduce, Rafael?

- Yes, boy, that I leave tomorrow the key to your
room and do not look at all this afternoon there.

I need it.

- Is that I have a beautiful satin bedspread.

- It will take care of the quilt.

- And there is also a devoted servant
who with great love, drawing in the evenings.

- It will give two
dollars to the servant to go to draw the other side.

- And a neighbor
girl who spends her life from her window stalking what is and what
there is in my room.

- Is the forgotten ... I say, it will lower
the blinds .... Hey, Manolito, are you going to spend all youth lying
on the couch without a word?

Manolito Dávalos rested, in fact, in grim and melancholy attitude, not that he was out promoted
to head up the words of his friend. To name the rose heard with surprise and moodiness.

- If you you are in my position, what would have gained little joke, Rafael! - Said exhaling sigh.

It
should be noted that the young Marquis de Davalos, who had never
possessed an intelligence clear, teníala some time now quite upset.

According to the vulgar expression I was a little crazy or touched. His friends knew all this
disorder came from Breaking with Amparo, who had eaten in a short time his fortune and who was
still deeply in love. Tratábanle some protection between mocking and benevolent, but refrain,
if not too clogging and precautions, jokes with his ex-mistress, because ever be molested,
Manolito was the victim of anger attacks very similar to madness. She was just over thirty
years, was bald, her skin and withered lips, eyes off. Tell them their four children picked up the
mother. He lived in an inn with the pension I spent an old aunt who was heir apparent. On the
hope of this heritage some predatory lending money.

- If I were in your case, you know what I would do, Manolo? ... I married my aunt.

The friends laughed, because Aunt Davalos was about eighty years.

- Well, well - he exclaimed with an accent painful. Well you know you have not had to fight with
indecent usurers all morning to conclude by letting something ... that is outrageous pawn - he
said softly.

- To me with English! ... Do not you know, Manolito, every month I have to renew the bell the door of
my house because they spend so much throw them? ... But I'll take more philosophy. Far from upset,
I feel a great satisfaction every time he comes to visit a creditor,
because it is proof that I am a good son, that I fulfill the last
wish of my father.

The savages of the two groups looked at him curiously, smiling.

- How is it, Rafael? - Pepe Castro asked.

- You should know that
my father died, saying: "Duty, son!

On duty! First !"... duty were his last words. I, fulfilling this sacred council, try duty as possible.

Amused
his teammates this feature cynical celebrated with jubilation. Rafael, subtracting modestly
to their applause, came to Davalos, and passing a hand over his shoulder
he said, lowering his voice but not so much that friends could not
hear him:

- Yes, Manolito, no joke.

I'd marry my aunt. What is lost with it? Is a old .... Best! So will die sooner. But once you
get married you go to manage his fortune and have no need to wait the years it pleases you live.
To you what makes you loss better than me is twine. Kid yourself, if we had we would get fatter
than Cobo Ramirez .... Furthermore, as you are rich, the Birlas will Amparo a Salabert, do
not you understand?

The Marquis looked up at his friend's eyes widened, which reflected the doubt if he was serious
or joking. No warning at the imperturbable face of Alcantara sign of mockery, he began to relent. He
spoke of his former mistress with such enthusiasm and devotion that would make anyone laugh. The
project no longer seemed so foolish. Be entertained in thought long and study through all its
stages. Meanwhile Rafael listened with affected attention, encouraging him to continue with signs
and words of affirmation. No one would think that was mocking him, if only because from time
to time, taking advantage of those moments that touched Marquis looked at the tip of his boots
looking for some quite expressive phrase to ponder love, malicious
winking to friends who watched them curiously mocking.

Opened, the partition of the room. Alvaro Luna appeared.

The savages received him with shouts of affection and derision.

-
Bravo, bravo!

Here is the defendant in chapel.

- See what face brings.

- As the brink of the grave!

The newcomer smiled faintly and held a scrutinizing glance around
the room.

Alvaro Luna Count de Soto, was a man of thirty-eight to forty years,
slim, medium height, bright eyes and face hard and choleric.

- Have
you seen Johnny Escalona? - Asked.

- Yes - said a -.

Here has been half an hour ago.

He told me that lie ahead, which quarter to four o'clock come.

- Well, wait - replied quietly moving and sitting next to them.

The joke continued.

- Now, let's see how it is that pulse - Rafael said taking her by
the wrist and pulled a time clock.

The count gave her hand, smiling.

- Jesus, what an atrocity!

One hundred thirty beats per minute! No death row has taken them.

It was not true. The pulse was normal. This was stated by the same friends doing Alcantara a negative
sign. Alvaro was not altered by the lie. Possessed of courage and conviction that he had no
doubt, continued with the same vague smile.

- Well, tomorrow at four o'clock the funeral.

Sorry, because I had to go hunting with Brown - said one.

- And that is not small the race from the funeral home to San Isidro!
- Said another.

- No, man, no - he said a third -, will take you
to North Station to drive Soto, the family vault.

The jokes were not in good taste.

However, the count will not be impatient, perhaps fearing that the
smallest sign of impatience, at that time, hiciese doubt its serenity.

Encouraged with this patient, the young wild each time he pressed more with your leave, repeating variants
with the same idea of ​​burial.

The truth is that were getting heavy, but not managed to scare her cold and faint smile. Respondíales
few times.

When he did was to Briefly complacent. Finally, taking out his watch, said:

- It's three. Remaining three quarters of an hour. Who wants to have a triplet?

Was a pretext to get rid of those flies while confirming his act cold
blood.

Three of the friends went with him to the game room. They soon surround
them others.

The joke continued as in the classroom.

- Look at him, how he shakes
your hand!

- Within an hour the man will no longer exist.

- Listen,
Alvaro, must legarme the Conchillas.

- No objection - that fixing
their letters said.

- I hear you, gentlemen, the Conchillo is mine
by Will .... What is the name that will, Leon?

- Testament nuncupative
- he said, he knew something of law to go in some time lawsuit with
cousins.

- The Conchillo nuncupative will belong to me.

Thanks, Alvaro. I'll have seen mourning and respect your memory as far as possible. Do you have
something to take care?

- Yes, that shake the dust every week or ten days. Failure to release
some tears all week gets sick.

- Current. So be it.

- Ah! and be
with his cane. It has been used to it and can not tolerate it by hand.

-
Perfectly.

Every time there was a greater uproar. The nonchalance
of the count was very good effect. Behind guess those jokes that his
friends loved him and respected his courage. In this appeared a servant,
and he submitted a letter on a silver platter. He took it and opened
it with curiosity. Al cross it again smiled and passed on beside him. These are antics, Emilio. At one time, I say ....

- No, Pepa, no, the proverbial skin of you are in Madrid.

And would give anything to have him Irene like you.

- Is it better than Maria Huerta? - Asked ironic twang, which not guessed, no But much irritation.

Pepa plan had changed: he thought it would be much better to take
the diplomatic channel.

A boy as Emilio, who had been unruly until then, it was easy to lure
him with affection.

He, in the darkness of the car had been red.

- The Mary Huerta is worthless.

- So you like. All men are the same thing about changing the ears and tail. Look, Emilito -
said taking his hand, - I had to reñirte much talk very seriously
say bitter things ... but I can not, I have a heart so stupid that
for all offenses is apologize.

Today you have made a mark evil thing, enough to Irene to separate from you, but to me it seems to
me that is not as great as it sounds, because you are a dazed boy. I'm sure you yourself do
not you explain the seriousness of it ....

Pepa continued his sermon sweet tone and persuasive. Emilio, he expected a dash of insult, was
pleasantly surprised. Escuchólo with submission, and then, with trembling voice, began to apologize.
Truth that had flirted a bit with Mary Huerta, but swore he was not interested in her. It
was a matter of pride.

When he was married to Irene, Mary had told this house Osorio Irene did not understand how a
husband accepted a guy so ugly and pointless. Then swore he would swallow those words was already
achieved. Otherwise what love and what pumpkins! I had never been in love with Mary Huerta and
thought to be.

- I could not believe you were in love, because you've always had good taste .... Because in
short, that woman is nothing but a bundle of rags .... If you saw
the broomstick as it may well take his place .... But you see, Irene
believe it and you have an obligation to avoid these troubles.

If I were in your case I would give them, puppet - added seizing
fondly of the ear -.

I have you would know it tided my skirts.

- I believe - said the young man directing a long look that had nothing
to subsidiary -.

You Irene has more resources.

- Why?

"- She asked another look little maternal.

- Because you are a woman more complicated, it needs more study. By the same token, I would time
for boredom.

- What do you know that, mamarrachillo? You talk about me as if I only knew by heart.

- What else would I!

- Go, Emilio, you're not clown! Look, you're disrespecting me.

The conversation continued in this light-hearted and loving as the
carriage rolled through the streets bleak.

In that dark corner, rocked by the motion of the springs and dazed
by the noise of the wheels to jump on the floor, the whisper became
increasingly intimate, more insinuating, busy all the time by chuckles
and sweet little words.

In both had taken a soft tenderness; Pepa for having found his son
so docile, it to see his mother so loving and compromising, thinking
to find a fury.

Animated with its success, caressed by the sweet confidence suddenly
established between them, did not stop compliments.

Pepa got angry or upset pretended, gave pinching fierce called him a hypocrite, flirtatious,
shameless. He concluded by saying:

- All that you say yours is a farce. If it were true I would be glad, because that would some influence
on you to make a good husband.

Out of the car, face on, more beautiful than ever, said:

- Upload
a moment: I have to give the watch to Irene, that you forgot yesterday.

Emilio's

arm rose and went with her in his cabinet.

Meanwhile, Irene came home in an agitated state in easy to understand
sensitive girl and loved her husband.

Emilio's conduct that night had upset, had put too nervous.

And for a grand finale, the violent scene which provided between her mother and her husband, which
would perhaps his final break with it, filled it terror. So, I just jumped to the ground before
the door, a sudden rush of a live irresistible desire, remounted hastily, saying the driver:

- A Mom's.

He opened the outer door serene: the floor the servant who had been
watching and Master output waiting to go to cost.

- Where's Mom?

-
In the front room with Miss Emily.

Irene went to the room hastily. Not there. He went to the boudoir. Nor, or heard the slightest
noise. He entered the cabinet. Nothing. Then, overcome with terror, doubt, anxiety, threw himself
into the room concealed by curtains of brocade which thought he heard a rumor. At that moment the
curtain rose and her husband appeared agitated and upset, staring with terrified eyes. Irene
gave a scream and collapsed on the pavement.

XII

# Matinée religion. #

A few days later, at eleven o'clock on a Friday of Lent, the finest wild Madrid came from a peaceful sleep
and deep with the firm intention to marry the daughter Calderon. He opened his eyes, walked by the
horse ornaments hanging on the walls of his room, stretched gracefully, she drank a glass of lemon
that was on the table night and prepared to rise. Not claim that the said order to come to his
spirit during sleep, but it is undeniable that it must have operated
in a mysterious work that benefited significantly.

Because at the time of going to bed, thinking only vaguely Castro this fruitful union. He opened
his eyes, his determination to achieve by hand Esperancita every
means in their power was now irrevocable.

Thus welcome wholeheartedly the lucky girl and carefully follow the
noble savage in the task of perfecting the Nature cunning work that
had been carried out to create you.

The servant had already prepared the bath. After taking a look in the mirror to observe the
face the day, this is yours, took a ball of iron and made them some moves. Took a foil and threw back
a few times. Then applied a few dozen punches straight on the pad of a dynamometer. Fact which he
thought came the moment of getting in the water. Inside it was even when he appeared in the
room, unannounced, Manolo Dávalos.

- Pepe, I have to tell you about something very serious - he said
the lunatic Marquis, with unit mystery eyes more lost than ever.

-
Wait a little, let me leave the bathroom.

- Go early, it is urgent.

The marquis rose from his chair he was sitting and began to walk around
the bizarre stay with some trepidation, to which his friends were
accustomed.

I could not keep still five minutes. If any hiciese after half a day of movement he would
fall surrendered before nightfall.

Castro followed his movements with mocking eyes and dismissive.

But these eyes became serious and anxious to see his friend approached to the bedside table and began
to play with a gun that there was precious.

- See what is loaded, Manolo.

- I see, now - he replied, smiling, and turning suddenly:

- What
they say in Madrid, if I kill you now have a shot?

Pepe Castro felt some tingling in the back, which was not produced
only by water, and laughed in a strange way.

- So, today, I could
do with impunity - remained very cheerful the Marquis -.

Because as everyone says I'm crazy ....

- Ha, ha!

The philandering laugh again as the rabbit. It was not cowardly, in contrast, had a reputation
for fastidious and swordsman, but, like most courageous public needed. The prospect of a dark death
at the hands of a madman, did not damn funny. Examples of Seneca, Marat, and other remarkable
men who died violently in the bathroom failed to give any amenity perhaps because they had no
news.

The marquis advanced with cocked revolver, saying:

- What they say in Madrid? Huh? What say?

Castro was besieged cold penetrated as if stuck in ice and not in warm water. But even serenity
had to yell:

- Leave the gun, Manolo! If you do not leave do not return to see in your life to Amparo.

- Why? - Said that lowering the gun with bereavement painted eyes.

-
Because I do not want, for the advise that you do not let in more
at home ....

- Well, man, trouble not thyself .... It was a joke
- said rushing to put the revolver in place.

Castro went to the bathroom immediately.

The first thing he did when he was involved in the cap that dried Turkish, was to take the
gun and keep it low key.

Quiet now, but irritated by the shock that his idiot friend had given him, began to speak gruffly
and negligible, while the mirror lavished on her beautiful figure, with all due respect, all the
care that was owed.

- Let's see, man, out with the secret .... It
will be a stupid thing of which you get used to .... Kid yourself,
Manolo, you're not to go out.

You get a priest - said while rubbing her arms with a fragrant ointment
that he had taken from the battery jars and jars of all sizes before
him.

The Marquis put his hand in his pocket, and pulling out her wallet
and a little note of a woman, said with no little solemnity

- Amparo
just wrote me this letter.

I want you knowing about it.

Pepe did not even turn his eyes to look at the document that his friend
exhibited.

Absorbed in the task of stroking his mustache with a beard brush, said in a tone distracted:

-
And what does the Amparo?

The Marquis looked surprised at the lack of importance given to this beautiful letter.

- Do you want to read it?

- If it is not very long ....

Manolo unfolded with the same care and respect that if an autograph from Santa Teresa Jesus
and read with trembling voice:

"My beloved Manolo: send me the favor of the giver that I need two thousand pesetas urgently. Now
if you do not, do not forget to bring him home this afternoon. Thine heart always:

"UNDER."

- Blow! What voracity of that girl! Do not have enough to Salabert
pocket?

I guess that they are not've sent.

- No.

- You did well.

- It's that did not.

Just to see if you can facilitármelas is what I have come.

Castro turned to him and watched him a few moments between angry and surprised. Returning then view
mirror, he said quietly contemptuous:

- Dear Manolo, are a large melon. I'm sure if now inherits your aunt, handed over the legacy
of the Amparito for the engullese as it has done with your parents.

Manolo was furious to hear this. Vigorously defended his former mistress. There she was, not
who had ruined him, but the rogues of the stewards. Was a girl under excellent conditions for
a housewife, a portent of domestic arrangement: while generous, capable
of accommodating any life for the love, etc., etc.

The manic Marquis
spoke with warmth and eloquence by the eulogy of his beloved.

- Do
you know where all evil? - Said dully, after a long pause -.

In my family deprived me, for no reason, to marry her. What a stupid obstinacy! Insisted that I
was madly in love with that woman. What was to be in love!

... What I wanted was a mother to my children, you know?

Nothing more than that. They would have been happy and me too.

Pepe Castro became speechless.

For the pale cheeks of a few tears rolled Marquis of emotion. He made a gesture of sympathy
and continued grooming mustache. After few moments of silence, said:

- Exemption, boy. I have not those two thousand pesetas, but although you can be sure I had
that would keep me from going to give them to you if used as you say.

The marquis was silent and began to stroll through the spacious bedroom.

- Who do you advise me that the asking? - Said stopping suddenly.

- A Salabert - Castro replied grinning in the mirror.

Manolito hear terribly curled, his eyes flashed ominously, he went frantically waving their fists,
to Pepe, who turned to him and stepped back preparing to reject.

- That you've said is bullshit! It is an outrage that deserves a lunge or a shot! It is cowardly
because you are at home ....

And he began to gnash their teeth and rolling eyes that gave him fear, but did not attack his friend.
Making a supreme effort to hold back, vented his anger against throwing hat the ground, so that it
destroyed. Castro was stunned, made a statue. A thousand times he had joked with him saying things
much stronger, real insolence without ever would have thought angry. And now, a very simple joke,
sat in anger of that strange way. He tried to calm him with some words of apology but Manolito
not listening. Although it withdrew from the first idea to throw on him, began to walk like
a caged animal, muttering threats, waving his arms and gesturing strongly. Relent soon, however.

-
Never thought you, Pepe - concluded by saying in an agitated voice -. I never thought that the greatest
friend I have had to insult me, I had to stick the dagger to the hilt ....

- But, man! ...

- Do not talk, Pepe .... I've killed with one word .... Leave me alone .... God forgive you as I forgive
you .... I am like a rabbit hunter who wounds and runs to his dying
den .... .... I do not delve Let me die in peace.

This simile of rabbit made such an impression after being handed down,
which dropped sobbing in a chair.

At the same time he was seized with a strong fit of coughing, which
dropped mouth by a prodigious amount of rails, but the locomotive
had crossed the throat, try as he did, in any way he could throw.

Castro made him drink a cup of lime juice with orange blossoms.

When the foolish marquis was done, that ending was dressing himself.

Which came to the right street and severely dressed in ceremonial
dress day.

Lunched in Lhardy, gave a tour of The Wilds, and three in the afternoon, more or less, drove
to his aunt the marquise de Alcudia, located in San Mateo Street. This scathing lady was very
jealous of religion as we know. The same of their ancestry, not to say more. Castro was her
second cousin, and though his life had upset skull rather, he had
always treated with great affection seeking to attract the right track.

To the Marchioness, bells printed noble character as the sacrament
of order.

For more vile a man did, it was always a gentleman, as a priest always a priest. In this pious
lady thought Castro who followed him in his business.

His instinct (which was much more admirable than his intelligence) said that if the Marquise
to marry him take charge of the girl probably get Calderon. It was great prestige in her aristocratic
society: higher still among those who were added to it because of money, and Calderon.

Alcudia Palace was a bleak factory built at the beginning of last century. A floor under large
barred windows, one upstairs, and nothing more, but the house was in a perimeter huge and had a large
garden behind pretty sloppy. The site was flat and not very dignified: the rough-hewn stone staircase
and worn out. The late Marquis was thinking in a reform when it took the death. His widow left
the project, not so much Greed, for the horror that inspired all
sorts of reforms even if they were lime and singing.

Inside, the mansion was sumptuous, antique furniture and delicious.
Tapestries valuable dressed the walls, paintings of the best painters
adorned some ancient parts, such as shipping and oratory. This was
a marvel of luxury. Occupied a corner the floor, but its roof was
the principal: therefore as high as the a church. Had large stained-glass
windows and the Gothic cathedrals: I was carpet as a ballroom, there
was a small platform with its organ, the altar was pretty, French
style, and in the middle stood a magnificent Ecce Homo de Morales.
It was, in short, a stay nice and elegant, heated by a large underground
oven.

In the family room the girls were alone with the work of his
hands. The Marquise he was told the office was busy writing letters.
He went there after a moment to joke with premiums.

- Can you, Aunt?

-
Adelante .... Ah! Is it you, Pepe? - Marquise said looking up and
looking over the glasses had been to write.

- If I'm interrupting.
I wanted to celebrate with you a conference - said the gallant smile.

-
Sit for a moment. I am finishing a letter.

He provided a chair, and
while Aunt Eugenia did crack the pen with your hand dry and nervous,
began to coordinate the exordium of the speech that he thought direct.
It gave the few minutes a great stroke strident should correspond
to its heading, and tearing strongly glasses, said:

- I'm yours,
Pepe.

This lowered his eyes to the ground on demand, no doubt, inspiration,
stroked his mustache, coughed slightly and then said with solemn emphasis:

-
Aunt, I do not know if God has touched me in the heart or is that
I'm tired of life I've been, but it is certain that a little while
now remember much of the advice has given me many times that I'm wanting
to formalize, to break these habits undignified that the lack of a
father and, above all, a mother and you have made me buy. Friso and
in the thirty and I think when I remember the name. I meet him, and
also with my quality of Christian .... Because in the midst of my
excesses I have not forgotten that never belong to a Catholic family
in Spain and now our class is responsible to ensure religion, by example
as you do .... The best means to promote this change I feel in my
heart is getting married ....

The gallant young man could not choose
better words to catechize Aunt Eugenia. Ramon had some difficulties. The councilman was and could not "get in noise ", especially
as the Governor's relations with the city came to be a bit strained. For its part. Castro said
curtly that it was all ridiculous. Naturally, what would be ridiculous to make a man as he there? He also
announced that he was sleepy and this was already amply powerful an argument without the first.
Might have the Nati also given up climbing, but he felt obliged to wait to Rafael.

In a very dirty room waiting for the government and Manolito Amparo Dávalos when Nati joined
them. The manic Marquis was so shaky, so haggard and pale as if weighed on him a terrible
misfortune. His confusion and pain is increased when Amparo ordered to leave. Not advisable
to Salabert seeing him there. He pleaded with the greatest extremes enabling it to await the
end of the adventure, but in vain. Unable to get came after the stay, but was to haunt the
vicinity of the building as a faithful dog. A few moments later, the appeal was taken to the
office of one of the officers, that was ruthlessly, without getting off the couch and speaking
in an authoritative tone that produced great irritation. Bile was stirred in the stomach. Soon it was
this is not shameless whelp, but the fear of jail contained. However, despite his patience,
was not much that was. If they fail at that time the Duke of Rafael Requena and would have been
more than likely.

Salabert came puffing as usual. In that breath should, perhaps, a measure of respect that everywhere
inspired. Only a man with a hundred million pesetas of capital could authorize both snort and
spit. The officer was troubled a little in sight. The banker, with his characteristic insight,
took advantage of this dominance.

- What is it, eh? Dispute girls .... Some shots .... Nothing between two dishes .... This is
arranged in two seconds .... You, little girl to bed .... Tomorrow I'll kiss, the give away
a bracelet .... All fixed, all arranged - began to growl with the
ease which is at home.

The officer only had the courage to murmur:

- Mr Duke, would be happy to oblige ... but my duty ....

- So, Where is Pierrot? Go out there "Perico? - Asked the same despotism.

- The Governor has now retired - said the official.

- As the secretary
.... Where's the secretary?

... Let's see, the secretary.

Condujéronle to his office and was closeted with him.

After a few minutes out his cheeks a little bruised.

The secretary sent the door with a thin grin.

The Amparo is approached and asked:

- Are you fixing the issue?

- For now, yes - the ever-present cigar
biting reply.

- Well, I want to go in your car - he said, lowering
his voice.

The banker's face darkened.

- Too know that can not be.

- What can not be? ... Now you'll see .... Dame arm .... Underway.

And clutching his arm forcefully pushed him down the stairs followed
by Nati and Rafael between the astonished eyes of the officer, the
inspector and the three or four employees who were there at such an
hour.

Once in the street, the beautiful tyrant offered his car to Nati and Rafael, and went without
hesitation the Duke, who followed her taciturn but submissive. Nerves are the old florist broke
and that he was alone with her beloved. The most vulgar words in the repertoire of point the drivers
sprang to his lips trembling. He kicked, he swore, gritted his teeth, uttered a thousand stupid
threats. Finally, taking the banker for the lapel of his coat fur, he said struck by the anger:

-
Of course, these two pigs, the employee and the inspector will be to escape unemployed.

- We will see, see - said the Duke, restless and confused.

- It is already seen. Until his dismissal bring me no show at my house, because you do not receive.

IX

#
The Loves Raymond. #

The new Clementine affair unfolded in a manner so childish as pleasing to it. After that unfortunate
turn of head, which had so embarrassed, she saved But for a few days, looking back, but the
greeting was sent to Raymond increasingly expressive and affectionate.

The fad (not to give a better name, because he did not deserve) casting was, however, so rooted
in his imagination, which ended by back again; next day too, to the
other match, always finding the young twins nailed on it.

Finally, one day turned the corner and made a new waved.

"Come on, I'm the shame," he muttered after blushing. And so true was that since then it happened
again without doing the same.

But that situation, but funny and original, it would seem heavy. His temperament spirited not
allowed to ever enjoy peace of mind, drove her to seek to desire beyond, to precipitate the events,
but often, instead of pleasure desired, is wrapped in the rubble of his fantasy castle was
built. In This time, however, had better reasons than usual to want out of it. It was so fake,
who played on the edge of the ridiculous. Alone with herself used to confess.

"The truth is, all things considered, I'm doing the bear that boy.

I look like a lady the island of San Balandrán. "

But though every day is meant to give a cut out this adventure is not over on foot, or crossing
in front of the house Raymond without looking up, or all over, guiding cold greeting, it is certain
that he had no will power to carry out its purpose. Not even to stop sending the usual goodbye
from the corner. One thing worried her greatly. And the young man, seeing clear signs that
she was of repentance, somewhat humiliating evidence of their sympathy for him, not depart from
obedience, do not ever follow or seek opportunity to meet with her on the trip. This, ultimately,
was irritating his pride. It seemed that the gentleman took the role too love otherwise. Thinking
about it, sometimes going to be angry. But to cross again for before he looked so cheerful, so happy,
with such desire for health, the black ghost of pride faded and fell back into his chest in torrents
sympathy and capricious desire to love and be loved by that child.

What would stop all that?

Probably nothing. However, it was possible that go ahead and curds, no doubt. Seeing paralyzed
his desire for reasons he could not clearly define grew and gradually transformed into rough appetite.
One afternoon, disappointment and bitterness had invaded his chest as he was thinking seriously,
walking by Serrano Street, in completely abandon this ridiculous adventure, passing through under
the gazebo after having greeted the young man felt it fall on a handful
of broken flowers.

He looked up and sent him a warm smile of recognition.

That rain refreshed his soul, revived their faint whim.

Then he began to look with eagerness approaching half again Raymond.

He thought about writing asking for forgiveness of your visit and harsh words, but it was too
late for that.

Then imagine that perhaps among his friends particularly among journalists,
had some who knew him and by which he could send a message of care.

Rejected it as dangerous.

He even went through your head make sign to come down and give an explanation of word, but
do not dare. Was too humiliating.

The accident came to his assistance in resolving the matter at his pleasure, when least expected.
One night they met at the Comedy Theatre. Raymond, who spent the year of mourning I used to
go from time to time, was with her sister in the seats. She was in a box under against them.
They greeted each other warmly, and for a long time there was between the young and beautiful lady
a shooting glances and smiles that caught the attention of extremely Aurelia.

- But what is this? Have you spoken to this lady?

- No.

- So what does such a smile? You seem like close friends.

- I do not know - said the young man a little confusing -. Appears very affectionate with me. May
suppose I was offended when he went to home and want atonement.

In the first interval Aurelia received a beautiful bouquet of camellias
brought a florist.

- On behalf of the lady who is in the box number
eleven.

The girl looked up and saw me looking at her smiling Clementina. The two brothers were the thanks
to strong head. Aurelia was very red.

- Do not you think - said his brother - I rise to thank the lady?

It was natural. Raimundo, when the curtain fell for the second time, left alone briefly and ascended
the stage of the lady. A happy smile lit up the face of it to see the young at the door. He was
received as an old friend told to sit at his side drew with he quiet conversation, leaving completely
abandoned his companion forced Pascuala. Fortunately for this not long in coming Bonifacio,
who never took no chair when the family knew Osorio was in a theater box.

- I welcome you keep me not grudge - quietly told him a long look insinuating -. You do well.
That proves that you have heart and talent. Le I confess with all candor that I was wrong
from medium to medium in the assessment of their behavior and himself. It's so true than when
I left home I would gladly become to ask you for forgiveness .... If not in words, eyes and gestures
you should understand I have asked that after many times ....

He still got another three or four passes over, true teacher, who
arranged Raimundo head the poor, that is, left him immobile, confused,
fascinated, as she wanted, in short.

At the same time those skills explained a bit of sympathy alien whose memory was ashamed.

Without giving him time to recover interest he asked his sister, for their lives, their butterflies.
Raimundo answered their questions with more than enough brevity, not cold, but for their lack
of world.

But she was not disconcerted. Still loving increasingly wrapping
in a network of small words and tender looks flattering.

The more embedded and can even be said was excited regained his youthful
admirer, here shown in the hall Pepe Castro on the seats, properly
dressed in tails, the tips of his mustache stickers, fine needles,
loops of hair coquettishly glued to his temples, the air loose manly,
dismissive.

He poured his fascinating look first, Olympic, for the seats, leaving trembling and subjugated
all the marriageable girls that roamed around scattered, then with
serene start as the flight of an eagle, Alzola to stage eleven.

Could not suppress a movement of surprise.

Clementina Who spoke so intimately? I did not know that young. He led his tiny twins. Nothing,
he had ever seen. Clementina, who warned the surprise of her lover, after responding to the
greeting redoubled his kindness Raimundo, turning entirely to him,
bringing her face to speak, making a thousand goodies aimed at drawing
the attention of the noble savage and worry.

I felt a joy evil in it. Castro had come to be indifferent. He directed it for a long time
the Raimundo twins in a flippant and even provocative. Our young man paid some looks innocent
curiosity, because I had the honor of knowing the terror of husbands.

Realizing that his sister would be impatient, even from the stage not lost sight rose from
his chair to leave.

- We'll be friends right? - Said the beautiful lady holding him by the hand -. Many memories
his little sister. I need to produce a feeling of this sudden and strange visit, and the give.
Tell it to one of these days I'll be surprised in the midst of housework .... You interest me
very much, so young brother and sister living alone .... Goodbye, Alcazar: I said.

When the box got a bit dizzy and sat back down next to Aurelia, said this:

- How beautiful is this woman! ... But I still believe it does not look like mom.

Raymond, who did not remember at the time of such like, he felt a slight shudder and stammered:

-
Well, I find a certain air ....

Now it was just air. The boy began to feel remorse. The impression Clementina caused him was not
very respectful devotion before being locked in singular way with her knowledge.

Pepe Castro, so I saw in the seats, and began staring at him with no doubt trying analyzed. Since
that boy blonde did not belong to the high society he frequented, pasósele by the imagination
(because they had imagination and all), which could well be the same tracker who had complained
both formerly Clementine. As Naturally, this suspicion is excited him more sympathetically
at him. Raymond was so attentive to contemplate the box of Madame de Osorio, who did not notice
the provocative insistence Tenorio. This, tired at last, rose to greet his beloved. He sat
beside her, in the same position that a moment before had been Raimundo, who saw him in this
way felt strange uneasiness, a vague sadness did not try to define. However, it noted that
lady was very cheerful and gallant gentleman seriously, and that she could not wait to take
frequent glances to the seats, which put the other sulking increasingly and gloomy.

- Have you noticed how you look at that lady? - Aurelia asked his brother -. It seems as if liked.

-
What nonsense! he said blushing -. What a good boy to me! If the gentleman next to it now ....

Aurelia protested laughing.

No, his brother was better looking than that soldier chrome rosettes
on the cheeks as the dancers.

When he finished the performance, Ray could see, not without some feeling of jealousy, Clementina
waiting in the lobby your Land in the company of the same gentleman. Saluted it With such affection,
that Castro, increasingly restless, again addressed a long and intense look analysis.

On the space of a few days the young entomologist Clementina waited anxiously tarried at the
door of his house and go up to the promise. Their hopes were dashed. The lady was crossing as always with
live pasito often affectionately greeted him first and from the corner back to make the proverbial
good-bye.

Each time you saved the door Rayford's heart shrank, it became a bad mood. "Wow, you've forgotten,
he said to himself: I will say no more with it, as happened not join
us again somewhere.

" Began assisting the chance to attend more often to the theater Comedy, but could not see it. The
Royal Theatre, where surely was, did not dare go for fear that he
thought that lasted even persecution.

Why he had gotten into who was to head up into his house precisely at that hour and not another,
we can not explain. What I do claim is that they were immense astonishment and embarrassment
when one morning Clementina was allowed to enter the house.

Asked the lady of course. Aurelia was in the room and passed word to his brother immediately.
When he appeared, the lady was installed on the sofa talking to disengage from a friend who
had them the day before visited.

- Be it known that this visit is not for you - he said smiling and holding out his gloved hand.

-
I would dare to imagine, madame - "he said timidly squeezing.

- Just in case! I do not believe you fool, but women must always live prevented.

In the ease and joked that it took some warn could be affected. His voice was slightly altered. About
this pale eyes had always complained of emotion that overwhelms the spirit. The visit was short,
but she had time to flatter the girl with a lot of sensitive words, with effusive pledges. He made
her promise to go to see it someday. If society did not like, it was afternoon and babble for a
while soloists. Home and teach him some work. The orphans and the youth of Aurelia impressed. Since
she had said to resemble his mother a bit, as Raymond said it was
believed with some claim to her affection.

- Nothing, when you get
bored here alone, are you coming to my house which is nearby, and
we bored together, it is always easier.

Aurelia poor, confused by this kindness and worldly conversation, did nothing but smile. When he
rose to leave, said:

- It is your responsibility, Alcazar, to remind Aurelia his word. As you can do what you want. The
wise do not dare to insist because it bothers them at least thought
....

Having fully recovered his composure he spoke in a friendly
tone, protector, a little maternal.

Still on the stairs for a moment entertained them with his brash talk and suggestive at once and
he reiterated with grace all its offerings. Raymond would not permit accompany her. He went alone,
leaving a scented trail sucked it with more pleasure than his sister. Aurelia because then
they closed the door remained silent. In the words of praise Rayford was taxed to the lady warmly,
nodded in a laconic tone that put out the fires.

It must be confessed. The first impression of filial adoration inspired young Clementina entomologist
had been fading slowly or, rather, confused with another tilt less holy, but keeping something
from her. Like all men away treatment of women, dedicated exclusively to the study, the view
of sex and recognition of the divine law of love was alive and intense. The day after the visit
of Clementina Aurelia wanted and the pay, saying of course that desire timidly and with words muffled.
But his sister showed him the desirability of waiting for some time
and he resigned. At the end of the visit. Aurelia spent an afternoon
in the boudoir of Madame de Osorio. Raymond, after much hesitation,
he did not dare to go with it.

After three or four days came back
home Clementina youth to invite them to go at night to the Real. It
was a real trouble for them. Rayford had no tails, Aurelia also did
not have a very fitted wardrobe. However, they were. A relative gave
the young his coat: Aurelia was the best rags of the closet. The next
day Raymond was responsible a dress suit in the best tailoring in
Madrid. Not only did this, but also without informing his sister,
went to the Royal Theatre's accounting and took a seat near manure
Osorio of the pit, in the same turn.

The intimacy between them grew
quickly, thanks to the efforts of Raymond. Because his sister, but
also praised the kindness of his new friend, oppose silent and passive
resistance to attend their treatment. For more than made could not
erase from his mind the strange way starting this friendship, nor
could he hide the false bottom in it existed. Knowing Raimundo tried
to dispel their apprehensions desire, sometimes directly, other indirectly.
Aurelia was rather an ugly girl pretty, as we have said, good sense
and honest heart. The adoration he had for Ray, instilled by his late
mother, did not prevent the parties know their character thin, weak,
impressionable with excess and childish. Actually in this respect
it represents the male element and the female he indoors. He cried
very easily, she hardly. He felt strange apprehensions, fainting,
hallucinations sometimes true, she had the nervous system perfectly
balanced. 

Everyone - the doctor said he had heard the question -. The mercurial tremor few attacks down the
mine.

- Why down? - Candidly asked the girl.

- For the hobby - the doctor said smiling -.

I think it is worth much more to breathe the fresh air, that not down there.

- Sure! I would be anything but mine.

Finally resulted in a square or plaza in the center of which worked
some workers raising an artistic marble pedestal.

- The pedestal
for the statue of the Duke - said the director of mines aloud.

- Ah!

What will be placed around the statue, Duke? "- Cried a few around
the hero.

This shrugged with a gesture of contempt.

- Do not know.

It is a charade that has happened to the casino of the miners.

- Oh, no, Mr. Duke! - Said the director, who really was for the initiative, Custom Llera although
influenced in turn by the Duke -. Oh, no! The people of Riosa wants to give a mark of respect and gratitude
to his staunch protector, which in circumstances criticism has not
hesitated to expose a huge capital buying this discredited establishment
and saving it from ruin.

- How beautiful it is to do well! - Lola
Madariaga said in an agitated voice, posing Salabert extremely sweet
eyes with admiration.

Everyone congratulated him, though many of them knew what to expect about that wonderful detachment.
Works considered a moment and continued after his departure towards the establishment mining.

This is situated at the exit of the town itself. Abroad had the appearance of a some chimneys
small manufacturing giving off black smoke.

He gave no idea of ​​its importance colossal.

The entourage came in and walked the fence where work is performed
auxiliary mining, which are also most of the units, carpentry, locksmithing,
cabinet room and the engineers.

What caught their attention was strongly appearance sad, sick, of
the operators.

All were marked with a stamp of decrepitude, that forced Cotorraso
Countess suddenly say:

- Here, apparently, do not work more than
the old.

The director smiled.

- They look old, but they are not, ma'am.

- But if everyone has the wrinkled skin, sunken eyes and dull!

...

- Never mind, none of them reaches forty years. Those who work here are miners no longer be
downloaded. Employees abroad, but with less pay.

- What you need to be a long time to get mine like that? - Asked Ramon.

- A little, little - "murmured the director, and then added: - There where you see them, still
I escaped the slightest slip of the mine .... The outside wage is so small!

- What they make

- A penny .... The maximum a fifty.

Entered on the fence followed by distillation. The Duke went ahead with the English engineers responsible
for proposing the reforms needed to give impetus to the establishment. In this Nearby are
the ovens and large deposits of cinnabar. Visited stores Quicksilver and the place where weighed.
All operators were shaking more or less and give the same signs of decrepitude.

The director suggested I go see the hospital. Some were disgusted, but Lola Madariaga, who never
missed an opportunity to showcase their charitable feelings, broke
up the march and followed most of the ladies and some gentlemen.

Others stayed.

The Duke ignored for a while about his guests, listening carefully
to the engineers, who were writing them what they thought about the
business.

The miners' hospital was outside the fence, near the cemetery, no doubt The sick were used to the idea
of ​​death and also that if they were not powerful to kill the mercury vapor, they assisted
in the task the sweet fumes mortis. It was an old mansion, cracked,
damp and gloomy.

The ladies did not shrink, delicate plants to put in it, shame. The doctor, who had undertaken
to prove, put them in the rooms, and put before him the awful picture of human misery. Most
of the unfortunate patients were dressed and sitting around on the
beds, others in chairs.

Their cadaverous faces, haggard, frightened, his body trembled with
constant shaking, as if they were seized with panic.

In the faces of ladies, rosy and fresh, it drew the fear and anxiety. The doctor smiled at
him strange way he did, looking with her big black eyes, insolent.

- Not a very nice box, right? - He said.

- Poor things! - Cried several -. Are they all mine?

- Yes, ladies, the mercury vapor atmosphere vitiated by the failure of breathable air fatally
engenders not only earthquakes, hydrargirism chronic or acute, that is what you call them the most
attention, but also the chronic pulmonary catarrh, dysentery, tuberculosis, mercurial stomatitis
and another portion of diseases that end with the existence of the worker or leave him useless
for the job a few years down the mine.

- Poor things!

Poor things! - Repeated by reviewing the ladies with their terrified eyes those sad and emaciated
faces that turned toward them without expression or even curiosity.

-
What medium would not address these effects so disastrous? - Clementina
asked to boot.

- The remedy at all, no, but to relieve it enough,
yes - said the young man nailing his penetrating gaze on it -.

If the miners were working only two or three days a week and those few hours when they should
be made to live away from the mining establishment in Villalegre For example, if those jobs were
prohibited to children under sixteen years if change your clothes soon coming out of the mine,
and especially if you eat well, I think that the ravages of mercury decrease significantly. Today,
for eating badly, need to come down to the mine every day and stay
there for a considerable number of hours.

After four or six years useless. You have to take them abroad, then the wages is so small
that neither potatoes with salt water and eat: so that instead of curing worse. The only way to
improve the condition of the miner is to reduce the hours of work and raising the wages .... But
then - he added, lowering his voice a little and smiling face Clementina - Riosa mine would not
be a business for your father.

A Clementina struck him like a slap that smile.

- Not for you either - said trying to smile -. Are not you a doctor of mine?

- Yes, ma'am. My business consists of two thousand five hundred pesetas a year and a tremor
mijita I have achieved in the three years I've been here.

Indeed, the young man's hands had a slight shudder that became visible when stroked his thin
black mustache. The group of guests watched him intently for a moment not without hostility.
Divined in him an enemy. Family security had to bothered to talk to them. Pagola him with another
look of impenetrable expression and went on without any pregnancy:

-
At one time the wages were a little older, the food was, therefore,
more healthier and more abundant.

But since the quicksilver have begun to fall ... I do not know what
causes (Here he lowered his voice and coughed), the salary, of course,
also suffered a considerable decline.

Have reached the minimum. With the win today miners are dying of hunger materially in a day or
a month, but after four or five years, yes.

Most of those here victims succumb, in reality, hunger. Well fed hydrargirism could resist. Moreover,
because wages are so poor, are compelled to devote to their children when only eight or ten years,
these hazardous work (because we all are when walks on mercury). Children, for their lower organic
strength, are the first intoxicated.

Many die, and they get saved, twenty years is old ....

The ladies and the few gentlemen who had come with them, listened attentively and sorrow. They
had never seen a picture so scary. The work, which is itself a punishment here is complicated
by poisoning. And with the softened heart, full of good intentions, proposed ways to ease those
bastards. Some claimed to be based a good hospital, others spoke of a shop-haven where food workers
found cheaper, others aspired to be prohibited from working children, other operators to for an
hour a day work no more.

The doctor shook his head and smiled.

- It's all very well, I think so too .... But to tell you back then
would not be a business.

Some coins distributed among the sick, visited the chapel, also left some money to make a new dress
the baby Jesus.

Finally left that room dark. Breathing the fresh air felt a joy not
trying to hide.

Talking and laughing were to join the rest of the party.

Salabert engineers explained to a new distillation method was introduced,
with which not only greatly raise production, but could be used vacisco,
or the fine ore. It was formed capacitors Cameras bricks, thin walls
on the first piece of travel of the smoke and cameras glass timber
and left it to the fireplace.

The furnace with them could be switched and running constantly. Duke Escuchábales carefully,
took notes, made no objection, trying to catch up on that business, in which his fine nose sniffed
large profits.

Upon arrival the ladies wanted to be polite, suspended the discussion.

-
How will my patients, ladies?

They have not had much luck today - he said.

- Mal, Duke, bad .... The hospital leaves much to be desired ....

And
those ladies were made to regret all the shortcomings that offered
asylum to with black paint colors, to propose reforms to let him comfortable.

The

Duke listened with smiling indifference, some jeering care is provided a cuddly child.

- Well, well, and fix that, but before you let me put the business up, right Regnault?

The engineer nodded, smiling gallantly.

- It is also necessary, Duke, that the workers work less hours - said
the Countess of Cebal.

- And that they increase wages - Lola said
Madariaga.

- And that made houses for them Villalegre - added the
Marquise de Fonfría.

- Oh! Oh! Oh! - Said the Duke, releasing a loud
and savage as those of laughter heroes of the Iliad -.

Why do not we bring Gayarre and recreating Tosti at night? They must be very boring here at
night.

The ladies smiled embarrassed.

- Come on, Duke, do not tease you, that is serious - the Countess said Cebal.

- And so serious, Countess! As has already cost me fifteen million pesetas! Do you seem to you
not serious these millions?

The women watched him with awe, fascinated by the huge flow man driving.

- But those millions do not you think them out a return? - Lola said he presumed to understand
some businesses.

The Duke returned to drop another laugh.

- No, ma'am, no, what revenue!

I leave here for the first pass.

And suddenly getting serious:

- Who the hell has gotten over his head these ideas? Believe you, ladies, what it is missing here
but really need! is morality. You moralize the workers and all these damage you have seen disappear.
Do not drink, do not play, not to waste the wages, and these effects of mercury will not be fatal
for them .... But, of course - said turning to the gentlemen who had come -: how to be resisted
in the mine a body rather than food, whatever it is, is inside a
jar of brandy amyl?

I am convinced that most diseases are drinking here is chronic. You know, gentlemen, that is completely
unknown Riosa saving ... Savings! no which "can not welfare or prosperity
of a country ...."

This phrase had often heard the Duke in the Senate. He repeated with emphasis and conviction.

- But Duke, how do you save with one or two pesetas to pay? - Dare
point the Countess of Cebal.

- Ideally, Countess.

The savings is primarily an idea (that he had heard an economist
friend), the idea of ​​separating some of the enjoyment of today to
avoid tomorrow's pain.

Two pesetas for a worker are the same as two thousand for you.

Can not you separate some the two thousand? Then they can just as
something to separate the two.

Consider that it is fifteen cents, ten ... Even five cents. The issue
is to save something.

The saving something is saved.

- Oh my God - said under his breath a sigh Countess -. What I do not understand is how to live
with two pesetas, the more you save.

The engineers were invited to visit the study room and laboratory.

This offered a great microscope, which was what caught their attention. The doctor was driving
on those most engage with great fondness for histology work.

The director invited him to shew those gentlemen to some of their
preparations.

They saw a lot of diatoms: Ladies caprichosísimas were enthusiastic about their ways. They
also saw the worm that had concluded with the famous bridge in Milan. Never tired of wonder that
a creature so tiny could demolish a factory so immense.

- Just think of the millions of these beings who have had to work in the demolition - said
an engineer.

Quiroga (as they called the doctor) concluded by showing a drop of water. One by one all were
watching the invisible world within it exists.

- I see an animal larger than the others - said the Duke, eagerly applying one of its greatest
eyed the hole of the device.

- You will observe that before him all others flee - the doctor said.

- True.

- This animal is called the rotifer. Shark is the drop of water.

- Wait a bit .... you I think that now hides behind a thing as algae ....

- Algae can be called into effect. Maybe put there to stalk prey.

- Yes, yes! Now it sheds on other smaller bug! ... The bug disappeared, no doubt ate it.

The Duke raised his face beaming with satisfaction, having had occasion to observe curious
that tragedy.

Quiroga his eyes fixed on him bold, and said in his eternal grin:

- It's the story. At the drop of water, and at sea, as elsewhere,
the fish swallows the big guy.

Duke's smile faded.

He glanced sideways to the doctor, who hath not left his fixed and
mysterious, and said abruptly:

- I think, ladies, should you get
bored with science.

It's time for lunch.

The great attraction of the tour, which had started almost all the
people of palaces for transfer to region so harsh and sad, it was
a planned lunch at the bottom mine.

When Clementina announced to the circles in one of her triplets,
there was a veritable explosion of enthusiasm -.

"How very original! ... How strange ... How beautiful!"

The ladies, especially, showed desire so intense, that he seemed
pleased.

In an indication Duke, all were provided with magnificent waterproof boots is high, because the
mine distilled water in many places and formed puddles.

However, the night before, at the approach the event, many, frightened, had withdrawn. The duke
was obliged to give orders was served for lunch at the address and mine. The brave men who remained
download, will not spend eight or ten.

Whole group went to one of the mouths of mine called "Well of San
Gennaro."

Close of this well is a building for inspection and weight, where
the ladies and gentlemen changed shoes and put on their raincoats.

Seeing them dressed that way, a shiver of desire and excitement ran
through the rest of the hikers.

Rush a sudden burst of courage, almost all women said they were willing
to lower with their partners.

It was necessary to send immediately by impermeable Villalegre.

The cage, moved by steam, was ready to receive the illustrious explorers.

Consisted two floors, each of which could hold eight people standing. It had been lined with flannel
and had added some brass rings for support.

Acomodáronse it the director, the Duke and courageous ladies who had not hesitated ever to lose
the first.

God commanded the driver for the decline was slow. The cage shook
up and down a few inches quickly.

Suddenly, suddenly plunged into the hole. The ladies gasped and were
silent and pale.

The walls of the hole were bleak, mixed and distilled water. In every department of a miner holding
cage, his hand Drowsiness trembling as a lamp.

All but the director and the miners and seasoned up down, felt some
anxiety in the stomach.

A vague terror impossible for them to talk and hands were twitching
who clung to the rings.

- First floor - said the head as they passed
a black opening.

Nobody made any comment.

That suspension into the abyss, into the unknown, paralyzed their
language and to his thinking.

- Second floor - again said the director,
quickly crossing the black hole.

And so it was realizing all until
the ninth. They perceived the sound of voices and saw illuminated
aperture.

- Here is where we will lunch. Before the eleventh visit
to see the work.

After passing the tenth, he shouted with all his
might:

- Are they cast the anchors?

There was a distant voice in
the background saying:

- No.

- Drive them out now! - Shouted the
excited director.

- It can not be - answered below.

- What! What!
... These anchors! Browse these anchors!

And with swollen cheeks,
restless, agitated, screaming like a madman while the cage slowly
falling.

A bitter cold penetrated the hearts of all. In the overhead
compartment some ladies throwing piercing shrieks. Shouted down the
well and caught them with his arm strength knights. Some fainted.
It was a moment of indescribable anguish. Believed reached the end
of his life.

And the director did not stop shouting

- These anchors!
These anchors!

And the voices from below were heard less and less
distant:

- No way! No way!

Once thought to be rolling down the pit,
the cage stood quietly. They heard some fresh laughter and her eyes
looked frightened, the flickering light of candles, a group of miners
smiling faces whose expression suddenly changed to reflect the awe
and wonder.

- What is that? What joke is this? - Said the director
of the cage furious jumping and turning them.

The workers are stripped
of his hat respectfully. One of them, smiling embarrassed exclaimed:

-
Excuse me, sir .... We thought we were partners and we wanted to give
them a scare ....

- Did you not know that we were going down now?
- Again said with irritation.

- Mr. Director, we thought that stopped
in the ninth, where preparations have been made these days ....

-
You thought, you believed! ... Well be careful to believe nonsense.

The
Duke recovered the use of the word.

- You know, my children, you
spend some light banter with your mates! ... Bring Them death before
your eyes!

- Death! - Said the miner who had spoken.

- No, Duke
- said the director -. Neither wanted to humiliate
the other. So, this tension ridiculously stretched until it Pepa, grab them by the ears, I said
four fresh and forced them to shake hands. Then, in the reconciliations, were extreme.

- Do you know, Pepa, I would not want to be there at the time of reconciliation? - Said Cobo
again flaunting its brutal malignancy.

- Neither do I, son - answered with a sigh of resignation that made me laugh -. But what does
you!

I'm the mother, which is the last thing you can be in this world,
and I have that penance and many others that you do not know.

- Me
the figures.

- They can not you appear.

- Well, dear, I'd love to
see my children reconciled.

Nothing is more ugly marriage odds - said Mariana blessed his word
slow, dragged, lymphatic woman.

- I too ... but after passing reconciliation
- Pepa said, exchanging glances smiling with Cobo Ramirez Pinedo.

-
Which I gladly I will reconcile with you, Mariana, just as those guys!
- Said in a low voice the general syrupy Patiño, seizing the moment
in Calderón's wife leaned over to poke the fire with an iron-nickel.

At the same time as attempting to retrieve so she will not be disturbed, his fingers touched,
and can even be said, without betraying the truth, general than the soft oppressed the lady
quickly.

- Reconcile! - Said it natural voice -.

For that we need rather be angry and, thank God, we are not.

The old philanderer dared not reply. Rio forcibly, restless glancing Calderón. If you insisted, that
Panfila was able to repeat aloud the bold phrase they had just said.

- Of course - followed Pepa - which I'll get as little as possible in their quarrels. Or I
just for your home. Ugh!

Crispa Me doing the role of mother!

- For me, Pepa, you want it to be my mother - Cobo said, looking into
her eyes greedily.

- Well, I tell my daughter, to thank him.

- No,
if not for his daughter!

... It's because ... I would like you to metiese in my stuff.

- Bah, bah! you let music - half Frias replied angrily.

A hint of a smile to her lips folded proclaimed, however, that the phrase had flattered.

Ramon took out the conversation of the Royal Theatre, the rabbit comes
out and runs all distinguished gatherings of the court.

The opera, for subscribers, not a hobby, but an institution. Not the love of music, however,
that engenders this constant concern, but not having anything better to occupy them. For Ramon
Maldonado, Calderon's wife and many others, human beings are divided into two species: Real theater
subscribers and non subscribers. The first are the ones that really express in a perfect way the
essence of humanity. Gayarre and Tosti were placed again discussion. Those who had arrived recently
gave their views on both merit and on the physical layout of the two singers.

Ramon began to have whispered to Esperanza Peace and last night had been submitted to Tosti in
his dressing room. "A very nice woman, very thin.

He had received an amazing grace and kindness. I had heard much of it, of Ramon, and had yearnings
to know him personally. When he learned he was a councilman, was amazed by the youth who had
come to that position. You see that nonsense! Apparently, in other countries are used to select
only the old ones. Up close it was even better than from afar. A satin skin that looks, a beautiful
teeth, then an arrogant figure, the chest lifted and arms !..."

Ramon was a vanity not only clumsy, it is well known rule that when courting a woman should not boast
too much heat to another, but a bold heading tantico girls.

These looked smiling, shining eyes and mocking malicious fire not observe the young councilman.

-
And tell you Ramon, would not you said it? - Pacita asked.

- Not yet - taking over and said the intention of mocking the question.

-
But they declare.

- Nor.

I'm already in love with another woman. At the same time sent a faint
peek Esperanza.

This became suddenly serious.

- Really? Tell you ... tell you.

- It's a secret

- Well, but we will keep it .... Hope Is not you say nothing?

And the skinny girl looked at her friend maliciously rejoicing in
his ill-humor and the Ramon concern.

- I have no desire to know anything.

-
I hear you, Ramon.

Hope has no desire to hear about their girlfriends.

I well know what, but do not say ....

- How stupid are you, girl! - Said that with real anger.

The youth council was flattered by such warning came from a close friend. Believed, however, I
had to change the conversation in order not to spoil his claim, because
Esperanza looked serious and grim.

- I do not believe it's so hard
you plead to Tosti and she says yes .... And if not ... why do you
have to Pepe Castro, who can attest to what I say.

- Pepe Castro
is not you - Calderón said the girl with marked indifference.

Maldonado fell from the sky region where they rocked. That sentence
said scornfully stabbing came to the soul.

Fully because the superiority of Castro Pepe was one of the few truths which imposed a so invincible spirit.
Could offer objections to Homer, but that of Johnny, no. Safety can not ever reach, much as he imitated,
the sublime degree of elegance, carelessness, contempt and disgust value of all creation, which
characterized his admired friend, humiliated him, made him unhappy. Esperanza had finger in
the wound that sapped his precious life. Could not answer, such was his emotion.

Clementina was sad and restless. Since he had entered the house of
his sister, sought pretext to leave.

But it was. Was forced to resign some time to elapse. Minutes seemed centuries. Had chatted a few
moments with the Marquise de Alcudia, but she had left as he entered his father Ortega. His sister
was abducted by the general Patino he carefully explained how to raise the nightingales in cages.
The two girls Alcudia next to him looked like wax, rigid, stiff, answering in monosyllables
a few questions that went. A deaf irritation was coming over gradually from it. Given his
temperament, not many minutes had passed throw shooting all ruthlessly and take off sharply.
Alas at the name of Pepe Castro raised his head strongly and began to listen with avid attention.
The reluctance of a sudden put Ramoncito pale. However recovered immediately, and, entering
the conversation with a friendly smile, said:

- Go, go, Ramon, lest you bad language .... Poor women in the mouth of you!

- Do not speak ill but that he deserves, Clementina - said it encouraged by the cable that unexpectedly
received.

- In all you speak.

I think your friend Pepe Castro is not that they bite language to break through the ground
an honor.

- Clementine, so far I have not caught behind no lie. Madrid knows it all man good luck with women.

-
I do not know what - he replied with a gesture of disdain the lady.

-
I'm not smart in the beauty of men - said the boy laughing his sentence
- but everyone says that Johnny is cute.

- Ps!

... Will be according to individual taste ... and Pacita excuse me, that is a relative. I am
part of those all and do not say.

- The truth is - Esperanza said sheepishly - that Johnny does not
go through ugly .... Then, it is elegant and distinguished, do not
you?

And he turned to Pacita, while getting slightly red.

Clementina gave him a piercing look of blushing ended.

- What are you talking about? - Asked Cobo Ramirez approaching the circle.

Almost never sat in the gatherings. Le board walk from group to group,
panting like a ox, releasing some bold in each sentence.

The face of Ramon clouded the approach its rival.

This did not fail to notice and gave him a quizzical look.

- Come on, Ramoncillo, say, how you manage to be so lively at the
ladies?

I just Pepa say that you are casting genius.

- No, man, how I miss him if you have it all? - Councilman angrily
uttered.

- Oh, boy, if you randomly as I approach, I go.

A wry smile, bitter and triumphant at the same time, delayed the angular
face of Ramon.

He had caught his enemy into the trap. It should be known that accidentally found out a few days before,
by an academic language, which did not say random, but embarrassed.

-
Dear Cobo - said leaning back in his chair and staring intently mocking
-.

Before to talk among educated people, I think you should learn the
Castilian .... Say ... I think ....

- Why?

"- Asked the other surprise.

- You do not say random, but embarrass, beloved Cobo. I'll participate for your satisfaction and
consequent effects.

Ramon's attitude as he uttered these words was so arrogant, impertinent smile, Cobo, puzzled
for a moment, asked angrily:

- Why is said and not embarrass chance?

- Because!

... Because I Said So ... That !...-- said the other still smiling every with increasing irony
and casting a look of triumph to Esperanza.

Are engaged in a lively dispute, violent, between the two.

Cobo stood his ground arguing briskly that there was no fluster, which nobody had ever heard
and that he was tired of talking to educated people. Councilman Young and perfumed him briefly answered
without leaving the cheeky little smile, sure of his victory. The more furious put Cobo, most
delighted in humiliating him in front of the girl whom they both
sighed.

But the decor changed when irritadísimo Cobo, looking lost, he called
to his aid to Patiño general.

- Let's see, general, you being one
of the great men of the army, do you think is right the Azores?

The general was flattered by that timely dab of honey, Maldonado said,
addressing in a paternal tone:

- No, Ramon, no: you are wrong.

Never embarrass said in Spain.

The council gave a jump in the chair. Suddenly abandoning all irony, casting flames from the
eyes, he shouted that they knew what they were saying, it seemed incredible that educated people,
etc., etc .... I was sure of being right and immediately seek a dictionary.

- The fact is, Ramon - said D. Julian scratching his head - than he had at home makes has long
since disappeared. I do not know who has taken it .... But I think also and the general, said
azara ....

He further blow deeply affected Maldonado, who, pale and trembling, threw his voice troubled
one last cry of anguish.

- Sura comes from goshawk, gentlemen!

- What a hawk or what cauliflower, man! - Cobo said releasing an insolent laugh -. Confesses that
he has put his paw and say you do not do it again.

The wrath, the wrath of the young councilman knew no bounds. Still struggled at times decomposed
with words and gestures.

But how you answer their strong protests with v giggles sarcasm, he concluded by adopting
a dismissive attitude worthy v, muttering words loaded with bile, her lips trembling, his eyes
grim. Occasionally let slip by nose a slight snort of indignation. Cobo was unforgiving took
all occasions who volunteered to guide pullita poisoned indirectly caused rejoicing girls and
made people smile quietly serious. Nobody in the world lived more hunger and thirst for justice
that Ramon at the time.

The arrival of a new character terminated or suspended at least his torment. Announced servant
to the Duke of Requena. The entrance of this occurred in a movement
gathering very clearly indicated its importance.

Calderón met him giving the two hands effusion.

The men got up hurriedly and in their seats to exit to meet them smiling, expressing reverence
in his attitude that inspired them. Ladies also turned their faces toward him with curiosity
and respect, and rose to Pepa Frias hello.

So Ortega left his father and came forward Marquise inclined, submissive, guiding syrupy greeting,
smiling with his eyes to clear through the heavy glass shortsighted spending. For a few moments
there was just the room but "dear Duke," "Sir Duke." "Oh, Duke!"

The object of much attention and compliance was a man short, fat, his face bruised, the slanting
eyes bulging, white hair and mustache graying, hard and bristly as quills of a porcupine. Thick
lips, and crooked and stained by cigarette juice pure paseándolo brought off and bit of an angle
to another in the mouth without ceasing. Could have about sixty years, more rather than less. It
came wrapped in a magnificent fur coat had not wanted to take the entrance be cold. But to put
your feet Calderón the boudoir, he felt badly impressed by the warmth that was there. No just
answer the greetings and smiles contention that he ran, he murmured in a tone brutal, his voice thick
and husky at the same time that characterizes the short-necked men:

- Ugh! This throws bombs! ...

And accompanied by an expletive that begins on f. Valencia At the same time beckoned to shed
the coat. Twenty hands fell upon him to help and this delayed a bit operation.

Representóse Calderon in the party scene of the Israelites in the
desert more has been repeated in the world, the worship of the golden
calf.

The newcomer was none other than that D. Antonio Salabert, Duke of Requena, the famous Salabert
richest among the rich in Spain one of the giants of banking and
the most famous, without doubt, by the number and importance of their
business.

He was born in Valencia.

Nobody knew his family.

Said one who had mercadal been rogue, others began to groom a banker
and collector was then zurupeto letters, others who had been a soldier
of Cabrera in the first civil war, and the origin of his fortune was
in a suitcase full of stolen gold ounces to the traveler.

Some came even unknown in one of the famous bandit gangs that infested to Spain shortly after
the war. But he explained as simple and graphic origin of his fortune, which did not lose a hundred
thousand million pesetas. When angry with employees his home, which happened often, and felt offended
that their swearing insulting, I used to say screaming like a madman:

- Do you know, f. ..., how come I have to have money? ... For getting many kicks in rear. Only
by dint of kicking is done go upstairs. Are we?

One must admit that this data suffers from being a bit vague, but the perfect authenticity which
is coated, gives invaluable. Taken as the basis of research, maybe you can come to define the
character and history the life of the wealthy and corporations banker.

- Hey, little girl - said Clementina and taking it forward until his beard as is done with Children
-. Are you here? I have not seen your car down.

- I walk out, Dad.

- It's a miracle. You may want to take mine.

- No, I have desire to walk. I am these days very heavy.

The Duke of Requena had dispensed with all present and spoke to his daughter with all affability
that was susceptible. The rarely seen. Clementina was his natural daughter, having back in Valencia,
when young, a woman from the lowest social class, as he apparently was. Then he had married
in Madrid, and on track to be rich, with a young middle class, which had no family. This woman,
extremely delicate health since her marriage, had given or, rather, had she proposed that
her husband's daughter came to inhabit the same house.

Clementina was raised, then, here and was beloved of his father's wife as a real daughter. She
also wanted and respected as a mother. After the married used to visit often, but as his father
was always very busy, did not enter rooms, and from his mother (so called) was to the street.
Only on days banquet or reception, or when by chance he encountered at home or on the street
chatted around with it.

After asking for her husband and their children, Duke began to talk, not sit, Calderon and Pepa Frias.
A rude man campechanote in appearance, smiled a few times: when he did so was so slight that
it could still be doubted. I used to call the things by their name and address people not polite,
telling the face things that could go through rudeness, because I knew they were not giving a
dye between rough and warm as they took away the sting. It was not very talkative. Generally
remained silent biting his cigar and looking to partner with slanted eyes, impenetrable. Showed speaking
false and sly innocence that he did not unfriendly. Always looked after the old rogue mercadal
of Valencia, right, mocking, suspicious and cunning.

Pepa Frias told him about business. The widow was tireless in this conversation. I wanted to learn
all, for fear of being deceived profits always eager and trembling with terror comic before Low
perspective of their funds. It was repeated ad nauseam the details. "Would release the Bank's
shares and buy tanks? What did the government do with the redeemable? I had heard rumors. Do
you make the next payment rising? Would not it be better settle upon thirty cents of profit
to wait to make ends meet? "

For her Salabert words were those of the oracle of Delphi. The banker's immense fame the was fascinated.
Unfortunately, the Duke, like all ancient and modern oracles are always expressed that he consulted,
in an ambiguous way. Often responded with grunts nobody knew whether they were of affirmation,
denial or doubt. The phrases occasionally escaped from his mouth between smoking and moist lips
were dark and dirty, cut, unintelligible in many cases. Moreover, everyone knew it was not possible
to trust him, to be enjoyed in confuse your friends and let them fall headlong into a bad deal.
However, Pepa insisted aspiring to boot from a brain light the secret of mine: joke took him
by the lapels of his coat, calling him old, taciturn, fox, displaying a shamelessness that
it had become flirtatious. The banker did not fire. He was responding with humor as he grunts and
lurid phrase that made laugh Calderon although I really wanted to do seeing tremendous cast ruthlessly
spat on the carpet. For the Duke, the hotness of snuff was not used enough and salivated repair
where to do it, unless in his house tended to get off the spittoon. Calderón was restless,
violent, just as if you cast them in the face.

A third Once, unable to restrain himself, he was looking for the
spittoon to put it aside.

Salabert sneer at him and winked at Pepa.

Calderón said he was quiet and talkative and sought to replace the
Duke Pepa giving advice on the funds.

But though man prudent and skilled in business, the widow not appreciated or even wanted to
hear them. At last After all, between him and Salabert huge gap existed:
one was an ordinary businessman, the another genius from the bench.

However, he nodded to the indications inarticulate sounds stock of
the owner of the house.

Pepa did not trust.

Salabert pulled away a little of the group and fell on the arm of
a chair by one gross position for which he alone was right.

Instead of being frowned upon those manners free and rude, contributed
not a little of its prestige and respect in society idolatrous is
taxed. Far from the pan again returned to salivate over the carpet
with some Malicious enjoyment, which despite its good-natured indifferent
mask is reflected by the face. Calderon also turned to cloud and pucker
up to, resolving to jump over certain social ruthlessly, he again
approached the spittoon without much value as before as he did with
his foot. Pepa sat on the other arm and continued to Caroca the Duke.
This began to set more attention on it. Their eyes frequent head wrapped
at the foot, noticing that they stopped in the chest high and provocative.
Pepa was a woman fresh appetizing. After a few minutes she leaned
banker with little finesse, and bringing her face to face, as it seemed
that it touched his lips, he said quietly

- Do you have many Osuna?

-
Some, yes, sir.

- You sell them to escape.

Pepa looked into his
eyes intently and noticed it being stopped. After a few moments it
was she who approached her face as the banker asked quietly:

- What
to buy?

- Redeemable - said the famous millionaire with the same
subject.

Entered at the time a gentleman and a lady, both young,
petite, smiling, and living in his manner.

- Here are my children
- Pepa said. Contempláronse few moments, she maliciously and triumphant expression, him
with gratitude and joy repressed.

- If you always have told me!

If no other like my baby to know how to love! ... Come here let me give thanks, rich mine,
let me adore knees.

And dragged, overwhelmed by the enthusiasm towards the couch, forced
her to sit back and dropped to his knees, fervently kissing her gloved
hands.

- Jesus, what madness! - Exclaimed the lady a bit confusing -.

What a thing to make such ends!

- It's not about money, my baby, it's not about money, it's because you have a way to make
original things, because you have the grace of God, because you are a Barbiana .... Take, take,
retemonísima!

And he hugged his knees and kissed them with warm gestures.

Not satisfied, bowed further and kissed his feet, or rather, the morocco leather of his shoes.

-
How low are you, Pepe! - She exclaimed, laughing.

- No matter what you call me anything you want. I'm yours, yours till death! I love you more God. I love
these little feet so rich and the kiss. See? Let's see, that someone comes tell me that I should.

Clementina
looked at him smiling.

It was not easy to find out if it had in reality or simply amused with that worship, or rather that
dog joy resounding feeling creeps caressed and licked the feet of
his master.

- Not only do I owe you happiness, but also the honor.

Do not know what I have suffered since yesterday cursed by the debt - he said in an agitated voice.

-
Will you return to play, eh?

Will you return to play, lost? - She asked pulling his hair, primororosa
deleting that line that started so nicely.

- No ... particularly
on my word .... I assure you

- Not on your word, not on your money,
great junk .... I'm, I'm - he added a gesture of mime, getting up
and running to look at the time the clock on the mantelpiece -.

Ugh how late! ... Goodbye, little boy.

And he rushed to the door reaching out to her lover without looking.

This could not kiss the tip of the fingers. She ran to open, but it had seized the lock, for
true that angry because his weak resisting pulls.

- Bye, bye, until Saturday - said in a falsetto voice.

- Until last week.

- No, no, until Saturday.

He went downstairs with the same haste with which he had climbed, made another gesture imperceptible
Farewell to the keeper and hit the streets. Continued to walk to the Plaza del Ángel, and stood
there a cab and got into it.

It was after six. An hour ago they were the lights of the shops. Ocultóse his best in a corner
and let his gaze wander distracted without curiosity through the streets going through. His face acquired
the expression haughty, disdainful, which characterized, to which was now added slight hint of
disgust and concern. For its refined elegance, by his arrogant demeanor, and especially that
severe majesty of his face pilgrim, no Clementina hesitate to depute one of the highest and most
noble ladies of the court. However, if it was indeed, as contained in all the aristocratic salons
in all lists distinguished people that the newspapers published the day after any soiree, horse
racing, or any other party, in law be was far from its origin. Could not be more humble. His
father had been in an English, Irish mistress of a cooper who had come to Valencia in search
of work. His name was Rosa Coote. It was splendidly beautiful and would have been something more to
take care of the decoration or dressing himself. Misery, ordinarily lived that home illegal,
had been dirty and ragged. Rogue mercadal of Valencia and the beautiful English is understood
at the back of Cooper, temporary owner thanks for this. Salabert was younger, more handsome: the
vice of drunkenness is not he had dominated as that. Rose followed him to his housetop, abandoning
the first lover. A few months of living together, Salabert, who appeared from time to Cuba as
waiter in a steam, turn left. The English, who had already in her womb the fruit of that temporary
marriage, filmed some time without protection, without resources, through the streets of the
city, until he entered a relationship with a carpenter who picked Grao and reached to make
her his lawful wife. Clementina was raised as an intruder in that new home. His mother was a violent
woman, irascible, with gusts of tenderness, that only kept for their children legitimate. To her,
by all signs, and she hated unjustly avenged the insult of his father. What a terrible childhood
of Clementina! If Madrid knew some details, quick overview if they could offer in the eyes of
some scenes of elegant society that proud and haughty woman that happened, few would envy his
life. What torture what refinement of cruelty! After four or five years and was forced to be
vigilant two other brothers keeper. If this monitoring decaying one point, the punishment came
immediately, but no punishment as you want, hit passengers, lug-eared, no. The punishment was thought
to cruelty, trying to hurt where more hurt and which lasted more pain .... The neighbors had
come more than once to the cries of the wretched creature had rebuked the unnatural mother. It was
not only a thunderous brawl that the fierce Irish broken Valencian, was shipped to your taste against
Wives the neighborhood, and more bitterness then against the cause of that displeasure. At
all times shouted he was going to put it in the foundling. This was against the carpenter,
who boasted be good and compassionate man, who once intervened in the punishment to appease,
but most of the time he left his wife "to teach her daughter", as he said neighbors who reproached
him. His educational ideas clashed with his instincts pious and when they could overcome woe
to the unfortunate girl!

That series of unprecedented cruelty finally ended with a larger one that brought the judicial
intervention. The unnatural mother, not knowing how to torment his daughter, made some burns on
the back with a candle. A neighbor found out the fact incidentally, reported it to other neighbors,
the ensuing scandal was assembled in the neighborhood, gave part of the judge, was instructed
cause, and proved the offense, the English was sentenced to six months
in prison and girls gathered in a charitable institution.

A year later came to Valencia Salabert, if not like a potentate, with some estate. Enteráronle
of what happened. Went to see her daughter to school for poor girls. The out of there and put
it in other payment, by rare chance, where would visit. In the population, however, was praised
his trait of generosity. He knew it asserted in the conversation by offering to eyes of his
acquaintances as a living example of fatherly love and noticeable contrast against the wickedness
of his former mistress. Shortly afterwards he married in Madrid. It was his wife's daughter a
dealer in iron beds and mattresses metal Main Street. She was a young Feit and sickly enough,
but good, caring and fifty thousand francs of dowry. His name Carmen. After three or four years of
marriage, that, looking increasingly delicate health lost hope of having a family. Knowing that
her husband had an illegitimate daughter in a convent Valencia, he suggested, not very often
generously, bring it home and consider it as daughter.

Salabert gladly accepted the proposition. Clementina was looking for, and from then entirely
changed the fate of this unfortunate girl.

He was fourteen years old and already a prodigy of beauty, blissful blend of English style correct
and delicate and rough beauty of a woman in Valencia. Reflexes kept her complexion smooth, pearly
Saxon race. In his dark blue eyes had the same depth and mystery in the black eyes of Valencia. Underdeveloped
even by virtue of its most cruel childhood, sedentary life, then the convent, as climate change
and lifestyle acquired in two or three years, tall and majestic proportions that we see today.
Moral parts left much to be desired. It was his temperament irascible, opinionated, contemptuous
and sullen. If you were born with these vices or were the result of their barbarous tortures,
his sad childhood, it is not easy to solve. In the convent, where no one was mean, was not well liked
by his teachers and classmates for his character suspicious, the lack of affection that is felt
in his heart. The troubles of her companions, not only moved her, but awoke in his lips a cruel
smile, the left stiff. Then I had, from time to time, access of fury that had been feared and
hated. On one occasion, a girl who had said some offensive words threw her hands neck and was
very close to suffocate. It was never possible after you beg pardon,
required by the superior.

He preferred to be detained a month, to humble themselves.

The first months he spent at his father were good test for Ms Carmen. Instead of a girl happy
and grateful for the huge favor that was, was faced front of a shrew, a being nasty without
affection and submission, extravagant and whimsical to a surprising degree, whose loud laughter
flowed not only when a servant fell or the groom got a kick of the horses. But not discouraged.
With unerring instinct of generous hearts, knew that if that land was because love was not until
then only had sown hatred. Sweet affections reside in every human being, as in electricity every
body: but to make them vibrate, requires submission to a strong current of affection for some
time. And this was what made Ms Carmen with his stepdaughter. For six months was wrapped in a warm atmosphere
of affection, in a dense network of extremely delicate attentions, live testimony constant and
affectionate interest. Finally, Clementina, who began by show disdain and then indifferent
to that affection, you spent hours and hours locked in his room and only went to the rooms
of his stepmother when he called, he had no with this ever expanding living in absolute secrecy,
succumbed suddenly, he felt vibrate in your heart that something wonderful that binds to human
creatures as all bodies of the universe. Changed in a strange, violent, and all that came
from his unique temperament. Fell, when least expected, and knelt before Ms Carmen, by devoting
so profound a respect, a love so passionate, that the good lady was shocked and he could scarcely
believe his sincerity. In his soul had operated at the end disclosure of tenderness. Maternal
heat of that kind lady, her heart of ice had melted. The divine essence of love penetrated
where, until then, had only entered the essence of Satan.

It was a miracle. Rather than spend his life in his room, he knew out of her stepmother whom he called
mom, with joy, with a fire, with a pronunciation so determined, as only observed in sincere devotees
to go to the Virgin. Devotion could also be called Clementina felt that the wife of his father.
Amazed that the world was one so sweet, so tender, not tired of looking at it as if it had
just come down from heaven. I wanted to read the thoughts in his eyes, he wanted to anticipate
his slightest wishes, wanted anyone to serve more than she wanted to, finally, like all love, the
exclusive possession the object of his love. A very slight sign of displeasure of Ms Carmen was
enough to confuse and plunged into the most bitter grief. That haughty creature, who had come to
be hateful to all, is humiliated with intense pleasure, his stepmother. It was his humiliation
of the mystic who bows out of a need invincible spirit. When he felt the hand of lady stroking
her face, thinking of God feel the same. He hardly dared to touch his fingers to his lips thin
and transparent.

Only his stepmother had changed so radically. With others, even with the same father, still
showed the same cold contempt, the same stubborn and arrogant character. If ever seemed sweeter
and treatable, it had to be attributable to its will, but the express mandate of Ms Carmen.
As this mandate ceased or forgotten, returned to its original be malicious. The servants hated by
the insufferable pride began to express so realized crown princess status, by either not finding
it any compassion for his offenses. The one he suffered in his service was the English governess
who her father had brought. Was already advanced in years, but had pleasure in dressing and
align as a damsel. This served many times innocent hobby of mocking the girl, who only need could
you tolerate force. Poor woman! All of its technical secrets were handed toilet merciless mockery
to the servants. Their physical imperfections awoke, misshapen by lady's maid, uproar in the kitchen.
In some solemn occasion, a feast day, Clementina hid her teeth, that was on the toilet for cleaning.
Any can imagine the distress that this caused the old miss. Which candidly revenge of her as Miss
Capricho and putting on subjects, English exercises French, some maxims and aphorisms that
will sting, wit: "Pride is leprosy the soul. The girl pride is a leper from whom all must turn
away in horror "--." Who does not respect the elderly will never be respected, "and so on.
Clementina laughed at these outbursts. Insolence ever came to change the sentence to the teacher
on the other of his invention. Where he said: "Nothing is so ugly and worthless as a young arrogant",
put the disciple: "Nothing is so ridiculous and worthy of laughter as an old fox '. Alborotábase
the miss, was part of Ms Carmen, called it his stepdaughter, scolded her gently, and smoothing
sad and heartbroken to see her brow and kissed her affectionately. And to another. The truth is
that Miss Anne was right and the other servants, saying the woman was who spoiled the girl.
Ms Carmen, living in a terrible moral loneliness, was so intrigued and grateful the living
love that at all times he showed his stepdaughter, who had no eyes to see their faults, and if he
had lacked the strength to correct them.

At eighteen years Clementina was one of the most beautiful women and one of the best games
Madrid. The flow of his father had grown like wildfire.

He was considered one of important bankers of the city and no other heir was known or assumed it
was already it had. Began the youth of the aristocracy of blood and money, partners most eminent
of the Savage Club, to celebrate statements urging him to live. If I went to a gathering, a group
of boys had it walled constantly, if the church another large group was waiting in right-departure
training, if the Paseo de la Castellana, handsome knights galloped near his car would provide
an escort. In the theater twenty pairs of twins were constantly fixed upon her. The name of Clementina
Salabert out in all discussions of youth elegant form was seen in all the chronicles of salons,
rang in Madrid as one of the brightest stars aristocratic sky. Had a good portion of affairs
and courtships that did not produce trace some in his heart. And left the couple took inconsiderately,
which gained fame of flirtatious and frivolous. But this does not prevent a girl finds worshipers.
In contrast, self-esteem of the men were encouraged to devote their flattery to this class women,
always with the vain hope of being the nail to fix the vane wheel. Nor was it a serious problem
for rude and malicious murmur rose and ran all over Madrid for the original friendship which brought
a young and famous torero. The innocence and weakness of Ms Carmen had a good part of it. Not
only consented is the bullfighter good lady entered the house and sit at his table, but also
accompany them in public in more than one occasion. With this and give the death of some bulls,
slander, which is on the loose in the capital and the provinces, had sufficient excuse to pick
on fiercely with the envied beauty. But as otherwise could not provide bold and vague suspicions
that conjecture, as indeed there were two positive data that amply counterbalanced, namely,
the exceptional beauty and richness of Young, slander was no decrease in the worshipers, only
served to some disillusioned more easily spit their bile.

Clementina offered in his manner and speech, at this age, and always offered later flamenquismo
certain trend, or the forms unwrapped, to the serenity mocking Special tear cool in Madrid. Such
a trend is more or less exaggerated across Madrid's high society. It is a sign that characterizes
and distinguishes it from that of other countries. There is in this inclination to be seen in
Madrid, in the palace as the Razorfen, something good: it is not
all bad.

For now means a protest against this ongoing lie the refinement and sophistication of social
formulas always brings. It is commendable correction in the manner and measure in words, but
the coldness produced exaggerated tedious that our diplomats overseas observed in classrooms.

Clementina was exaggerating a little their taste for Flemish words and gestures. Taste it had come
not know how, maybe spread the atmosphere, as the ladies its kind not usually alternate with long
cool. Had a housemaid born and raised in Wonderland. This was in his moments of expansion who
provided much of words and idioms. Then his friendship with bullfighter we've mentioned, relationships
that remained after some gentlemen farmers of the genus; the theater
for hours, where are copied, not without grace, the customs of the
populace of Madrid, friendship with Pepa Frias and other aristocratic
manolas were started slowly and fully introduced after flamenquismo.

Was enthusiastic fan of the bulls. Miraculously left to attend a bullfight from his box, adorned
with the familiar and the familiar white blanket red carnations. And discussed the lots, and
glaring censorship and taxed applause, and was taken between staunch and fervent amateur lizards.
The national show, animated, bloody, I was very pleased with his violent nature, untamed. When
I saw other women cover their eyes or make other niceties to the vicissitudes of the run, laughed
sardonically, as if he doubted the sincerity of his terror.

Among the many worshipers and applicants that their hand was, and came and fell from grace alternative
and quickly became one that managed to fix some more attention. His name was Thomas Osorio. He was
a youth of twenty to thirty years old, rich and delicate meager figure face and graceful and
resolute temper. He gained more valuable than others, or by calculation or genuine independence
of character. Upon entering her love was not delivered in full or abdicated his will. In many fights
of any importance had during his long relations, since it lasted less than two years, vigorously
maintained his dignity. Temperament was bilious, arrogant, contemptuous as it relied on his money
and had a wicked charm which gave him prestige among the ladies.

Thanks to these qualities, Clementina never tired of him as soon as the others. After two years,
however, when there were only some days to perform the marriage broke down in a resounding
and even scandalous. All Madrid learned. The comments were endless. Of them was that whoever
had taken the initiative to sever relations was the groom. Such sayings, accurate or not, reached
the ears Clementine and wounded his pride so vividly, it came close to getting sick with anger.

A year passed. Had a minor engagement. Osorio also courting other girls. Both are kept alive, however,
the memory of their love. She's waving a desire stabbing for revenge. While this man walked in
and looked so happy society, felt humiliated. In him, despite his disguise of indifference,
the fire of love burning or at least desire. Clementina had fascinated his senses, had entered
into his flesh; made more efforts could not uproot him. At all times I dreamed of her, saw her before
their eyes increasingly provocative and appealing. As time passed the fire grew more that consumed more
effort and pain and had trouble adopting a haughty and indifferent continent to meet her at
any soiree. Clementina, with the fairly common wisdom women reached
out to guess that her old boyfriend was worshiping in secret and felt
malignant glee.

Since then dressed, adorned not only for him to stun, to fascinate, to make him drink the bitter
cup of jealousy.

From this period dates the noisy fame he acquired as elegant woman. Clementina here was a great
artist. So I knew that dress fabrics, and for their vivid colors; for their wealth, would attract
too much damage seen in the figure. Realizing that the Women dress in uniform should not be a
decoration but a means of highlighting the perfections with which nature had endowed, did not follow
fashion blindly. As is smart little or too much exposure of his beauty, evaded or modified value.
Shunned bright colors, a profusion of ribbons, complicated hair. Saw his body like a statue
and dressed as such.
 

So seeing him with despair written on the face, Clementina left after to speak in that tone.
Moved with pity again began to kiss her tenderly. But he rejected their caresses gently pushed
her away saying:

- Let! Let me! ... So I do more damage.

Two tears in their eyes and were detained there for a long time.

Finally became again, without falling, the mysterious place where
spring.

The car arrived at the Puerta de Alcalá. Clementina did stop in front
of the Calle Serrano.

- Should you get off here. You are near your
home.

Raymond, without a word, opened the door.

- Until Saturday,
the World .... Be there .... You know I hope so.

At the same time
pressed her hand tightly. Green, you, room?

"Too bad!"

Duke said again inside, and out loud:

- Some are, precious few have at home.

And putting his hand into his pocket for his wallet, said bluntly:

-
How many do you need?

- No, you scoundrel! - Said she burst out laughing
-.

Thought I was getting ready to give a saber, eh?

- Sure!

Loving but do not see you when you need money.

- There embusterazo, cunning! Whatever you hear, think that is true. I confess I'm a little
gross and willful, but not always, the son, not always! ... Besides, I feel this evil genie
sour, do not you?

The beautiful odalisque was sitting on the knees of the Duke and gave strong pat with both hands
on their newly shaved cheek a trumpet player. He wore a coat color dark blue with lighter ornaments,
which suited her admirably.

His complexion was increasingly finer, smoother, more pearly.

It was a miracle of nature.

And on that complexion looked her large dark eyes dark, wild, with a mysterious and sensual
fire. Her hair, giving in blue as black, wavy falling on the front
half hidden.

His throat, mixed with milk and roses, cried out the homage of the lips. The duke was thrilled
since she had averted the danger: it melted in touch, the Amparo
accepted submissive to his custom.

- Wait a little.

Today I want to take coffee with me.

- I've taken, my daughter.

- No matter what your gonna get it again.

For many days since we took together. Of course, with that happy dance you will jump your brains!

At
the same time he got up and began to maneuver the equipment to make coffee, they were placed
on the table.

- I mismito I'm going to do to make you smack, so rogue, and I'll take it one polvitos I sold a gypsy
to get soft, you know ... Because I have to ask you something.

Duke's eyes turned to reflect concerns.

But he hastened to conceal a laugh.

- You said it!

What should you ask me, blondie?

- Drinking coffee in the know.

He could not tear before the secret.

Japanese pulled a small table to the chair where he was the Duke.

For himself brought a golden chair. And chatted with animation or rather, chatted her as he
listened enraptured, his head thrown back, approaching from time
time with his trembling hand of man spent the cup to his lips.

-
Hey, Tone - she said when completed, decisively putting elbows on
the table and looking intently: - what do you think of me go to your
prom?

Another that was not Salabert had given a jump on hearing such an
atrocity. He did more to open his eyes suddenly to drop the lids again
staying in the same sleepy attitude.

- I do not dislike.

- "So I
can go?

- You bet you can go! What you will not enter.

- Why? "-
Cried and curled the beautiful.

- Why do not you receive.

Amparo
rose furious.

- Why did not I receive, say, why? - Uttered shaking
his arm and bringing face to his.

- Quiet, small, quiet! Because
my daughter can not stand by your side a pretty woman it. And as were passing day, the
greeting was becoming more expressive. Without speaking a word seems to be established trust between
them.

Clementina did not try to analyze the feeling he felt for the young Alcázar. Was little fond
look inside. I thought vaguely that was a charity showing courteous to him. "Poor fellow - you
said -. I adored his mother! And how happy she had being a child so good and loving! "One evening,
when you took over a month of these greetings, he asked Pepe Castro

-
Hear: has stopped following you and that blond boy of yore?

Clementina felt a strange thrill: got slightly red without knowing
herself why.

- Yes ... ago and at least a month since I've seen.

Why lie? Castro was so far from thinking that between that unknown tracker and his beloved mediate
any relationship, did not notice the blush. Then went to something else with indifference.
But for our lady, shaking and that that singular warmth in cheeks was a revelation vague in his
mind what befell. The first specific evidence of this revelation was that he left the house of
her lover, instead of going thought in it, reflected that too faithfully fulfilled Alcázar not
followed his word. The second was that to stop at a jewelry shop window and see a brilliant must-see
figure butterfly, it was said that some of those he had seen at her blonde friend were much more
beautiful and bright. The third was purchased to enter the house of Fe to buy some novels French.
It occurred to see so many books, her lover Pepe Castro had not read any of them, nor read probably.
Before, it was funny this ignorance was now ridiculous.

Days passed. Mrs. Osorio, weary of the fashionable life, having exhausted all the emotions that features
a lady distinguished for her beauty and wealth, would it please extreme in that innocent greeting
almost every day changed the young man's viewpoint. One evening, having dropped the car in Retirement
walk a few laps, ran with Alcazar and his sister in a street tree. He led a salute very expressive.
Raymond responded with the same affectionate respect as always, but noted that Clementina she
did so with marked coldness. This worried her and put her in a bad mood all day, more than
ever wanted to confess that the cause of your discomfort and it was melancholy. Shortly little,
due to his irritable temperament and capricious, that he had affair died at birth, was occupying
his mind sprouting in him a wish. The individual is Lady appetites were always violent, especially
if were an obstacle, as such, passengers too.

One morning, after saying goodbye to Raymond's hand closing and opening repeatedly with the grace
peculiar to the Spanish ladies, and after walking a short distance, for a almost involuntary
movement turned his head and raised her eyes again to the lookout. Raimundo was watching with
some opera glasses. He got heavily red: his pace overcome with shame. Why should the fact that
nonsense? What would he think of the young Naturalist? At least, to be embodied in love with
him. For despite these ideas swarmed disturbed in his head as he walked quickly to turn the
corner and concealed from the looks of it, was not so irritated against herself as usual. I
was ashamed, that's true, but then he could walk slowly invaded sweet emotion his mind, he felt
a pleasant tingling in the heart as there was already a long time since not feel. "If you go
back to my days fanciulla! he said smiling. And he began to recreate considering their own
emotion happy with that return shocks of the innocent the first age. Going so absorbed in thought,
upon arriving at the Cibeles, instead to take the Calle de Alcala to go home to Castro who was
cited for that hour turned around as if walking through that site. When I said hesitantly stopped.
At last he confessed that he had no great desire to attend the event. "I'm going to see mom - said,
--. Poor days ago not spend some time with me. "And she set forth toward the ride Luchana.
It was an excellent mood. A mechanical piano played by Lucrecia toast nearby and stopped to
listen, she is bored in the hearing of the Real's most famous altos! But music is a voice from
heaven, and only well understood when the sky has already penetrated a bit in our hearts.

On the down Recoletos Pinedo, that memorable character who lived with one foot in the aristocratic
world and another in the middle class clerks to actually belonged. He brought his side to a nice
young man who must be his daughter, but Clementina did not. Pinedo was removed from the society
he frequented, the same carefully concealed that Triboulet. Osorio's wife had always treated
this character with a bit of arrogance, which was not unusual as we know it. But now the pleasant state
of mind the expansive became flat for a few moments. As directing a serious crossed Pinedo
sombrerazo ceremoniously as usual, the lady stopped and approached him with a smile on lips.

-
My friend, you are a practical man, also takes this time of morning breath clean air and take
a sun bath.

Contrary to custom and nature, Pinedo was a little confused, perhaps because he did not present
his daughter grace this colorful lady. Repúsose instantly, however, and responded bowing gallantly:

-
And see if God gives me a few unpleasant trips like the one we've
had.

Clementina smiled benevolently.

- You must not take this flower even indirectly bringing his side
a young so cute.

Is your daughter?

- Yes, ma'am .... Mrs. Osorio - he added, turning to the girl.

This flushed with pleasure at being called beautiful by that lady
who knew both sight and name.

It was a tall, slender, brown face, with tiny features well drawn and sweet and happy little eyes.

-
Well I had heard that you had a very pretty girl, but I see that
the fame has been short.

The girl blushed even more and could barely mutter thanks.

- Come
on, Clementina, do not you think it will .... This lady, Pilar - he
added, turning it - is pleased to tell lies like others to say nice
bitter truths.

- I can see it is very nice - the girl said.

- Pay
no attention.

You're beautiful, is in sight.

- Oh, Lady! ...

- And tell me, father tyrant, why do not you a little more fun? Is it well done you will see in
any theater, dances and meetings and has locked up this beautiful girl? Or do you figure that
we have more happy to see you that she?

The poor Pinedo felt a shiver of pain he tried to hide. Clementina had touched frivolously in
the most sensitive part of your heart.

His salary will already know that not consented but to live modestly.

If I entered a society that was just not his to maintain employment, which was their sole support
and your daughter. This he knew nothing yet life plan.

Pinedo expected to marry a humble and hardworking man and he did not know ever that the world
we could not live and that he despised at the bottom of the soul,
although such time, by force of habit, and could not live comfortably
in another.

- It is still very young .... Have fun time - said with
a forced smile.

- Bah, bah! you say you're a great selfish .... And
how long has it been since have you been in Valpardo house? - said
the lady going to another conversation.

- Well, on Monday.

The countess asked me with much interest you and complains that has
abandoned.

- Poor Anita: It's true!

On the homeowners and their gatherings, Pinedo and Clementina began a conversation lively and
inexhaustible.

Pilar listened attentively at first, but as they knew most from those characters ended by casting
her eye distracted by the surroundings, olds to the few passersby
who happened to pass that hour there.

- Father: - said taking advantage
of a moment's pause -.

Here comes this young friend of yours that keeps his mother and sisters.

Pinedo Clementine and again at the same time they saw the head and
Rafael Alcantara the famous skull we have met in the Savage Club.

-
What has a mother and her sisters! - The lady exclaimed in amazement.

-
Yes, a really good guy, my dad, called Rafael Alcántara.

Looking back, more and more amazed at Pinedo, he nodded quite expressive. Not knowing what that
meant, but figuring that his friend was interested in not be characterized as a Alcántara as
he deserved, Clementina was silent.

The young savage, crossing them made a friendly greeting between
family.

Pinedo hand instantly reached out to say goodbye.

- You know that
today is Saturday - said the lady -.

Go and eat.

- With pleasure. Osorio memories.

- And bring you to this girl so very cute.

- We'll see, we'll see - said the clerks again baffled -. If today we could not, another day
will be.

- Today has to be tyrannical father .... Until then, eh, precious?

And he took the girl's face and gave him a kiss on each cheek, while saying:

- I've been very lucky to meet you. Needed in my living room and nice cute girls.

And more and more cheerful, without knowing why, he said goodbye and
went on saying: "What devil Pinedo interest will become a saint that
lost Alcántara?

"The walk light red cheeks, her eyes bright as the days of his youth,
came to the gate the large garden surrounding the palace of his father.

The goalkeeper was quick to open and sound hood. He entered the ducal mansion, contrary to custom,
sent a faint smile to two liveried servants, who waited at the top
of the stairs.

Quietly went ahead of them and went straight to the rooms of her
stepmother and who has traveled that road many years.

The Duchess was, at that time, in conference with the medical director of a nursing home poor,
which she had founded a short time ago together with other ladies. When lifted curtain and
see his stepdaughter, smiled sweetly.

- Is that you, Clementine? Come in, my dear, it happens.

This His heart was heavy when he saw his face pale and withered her mother. Abalanzóse and
kissed her warmly.

- Are you OK, Mom? How do you spend the night?

- Perfectly .... I have a face right?

- No! - Was quick to say the lady.

- Yes, yes. I've seen in the mirror.

I feel good .... Only weakness haunts me .... And I'm quite the appetite,
I can not overcome it .... Let's see, Iradier - said facing it again
with the doctor who was standing in front of it - so that you responsible
for monitoring the maids and nurses to save never stop due considerations
to the old ladies is not it?

The young doctor was a nice, intelligent physiognomy.

- Lady Duchess - answered firmly -.

I I will do my part for which the inmates have no reason to complain. However, I must repeat that,
despite our efforts, You may continue to receive some.

You can not understand to what extent are impertinent and malicious
certain women.

For no reason, just for the pleasure of hurting him same to me than
my colleagues, sometimes we are filled with insolence.

The more aware we show them, most are haughty. I taste the broth and chocolate every day and
I have found so far what this woman has told. The hours are always fixed. Never I've seen any
delay in food.

Try to find and convince you that whoever has reason to complain, are the poor servants who rudely treated
the inmates ....

The doctor had been praising as he uttered these words with an accent of sincerity. The Duchess
smiled sweetly.

- I believe, I believe, Iradier .... The older we tend to be very intrusive ....

- Oh, ma'am, that's according! ...

- Generally we are .... But this impertinence, and is itself a disease
and should excite compassion in those who do not suffer from it.

You do not need recommendations, because has a very charitable heart.

Those who do not have it so good besought you, my name, poor things gently with inmates.

- It will, madam, will - said the doctor, healed by the singular sweetness of the founder -. On Thursday,
the wait for you right?

- I do not know if it will fatigue.

- Yes, yes, I guarantee it.

Realizing that it was already over, the boy cut the conference warmly shaking and respect that shone
through her eyes, the hand of the Duchess, and bowing ceremoniously Clementina.

Then it came out, this one, who had been watching with suppressed excitement the broken face
his stepmother, moved by the kindness that breathed all his words
rose from seat and went to kneel before her.

Took possession of its stark white hands and kissed with warm affection transport. This woman
is so arrogant with everybody, I felt a special pleasure, like that
of the mystics, in kowtow to her stepmother.

The voice This stirred a weak magic spell sparks of kindness and tenderness that burned in
your heart and lent them for a moment the appearance of fire.

Ms Carmen gently removed hat, put him in a chair next door and bent to kiss her lovingly on the
forehead.

- Just four days ago have not come to me, rascal.

- Yesterday I could not, Mom. I spent most of the day arranging my bills, making numbers. Oh,
how horrible numbers!

- And why are you doing? Is not there your husband?

- Well, precisely for fear of my husband's doing. Do not you know that has become a miserable,
a miser, just as his brother?

Ms Carmen knew that businesses were not going very well Osorio, who had recently experienced heavy losses
on the stock, but did not dare say anything to her daughter.

- Poor child! Taking care of these things when you're born to shine only as a star of the salons!

-
It does not take more than that to be quite nasty, hateful! If things could done twice!

Suddenly, the expression of tenderness had disappeared from his eyes,
replacing another grim and fierce.

A deep wrinkle forehead furrowed his statue. And with a hoarse voice began to exhibit complaints,
grievances discover that her husband was daily. Nobody in the world more than his stepmother,
would such confidences, which she did not cause any tears.

Ms Carmen was the one who poured one by one from his tired eyes.

- Child of my soul! I would have given my life to see you happy! How blind we have been, the same
as your father than I, give you the man!

- My father! Other than this! A man who has not ever known to have at home a saint who had to worship
on their knees! The truth is that when I think ....

- Hush, hush: is your father - the Duchess said covering her mouth with his hand -. I'm happy. If
your father has some flaws, I have more still, so that there is no merit in forgiveness, if he forgives
me instead of mine .... Do not talk about your father, talk about yourself .... No know what these
troubles hurt me money, which you are not used. I, if I could, the remedied at once .... But
you know that managing a budget. Which unboxed I have to give account to Antonio, and it is not
easily fooled. A handful of gold, Yes, I can put aside for you, but my savings will not remove
you from Pilanco.

However, I trust that your troubles will not last long ....

Stood by the kind lady, he stood staring into space, sadly, and then, embracing his stepdaughter,
who was still on his knees and put her lips to his ear, he whispered:

- Look, my dear, I shall soon die and I leave everything I have. Half the your father's fortune
is mine, as I said the lawyer for the home.

Clementina felt a vibration in the soul that a psychologist would
be very difficult to define. It was a mixture of grief, amazement,
and perhaps also a little bit of joy. The pain predominated however,
and hugged her mother and kissed her tenderly again and again.

-
What are you saying there? ... Dying! No, I do not want you to die.
You me need to make much more money. Without you I would have been
a very wicked woman .... Temo the day you miss me it is. The only
time I feel a little tenderness in the heart are what happened to
her. It seems, Mom, like you I convey something of that virtue so
great that it is ....

- Enough, enough, flattering - said Ms Carmen
again putting his hand over her mouth -. You will worst you for who
you are. Your heart is good. What makes you look bad once is the pride
the orgullito! Is not it?

- Yes, Mom, yes it's true .... You do not
know what is the pride and the torments that provides who feels as
alive as me. To be constantly thinking that hurt us. See enemies everywhere.
Feeling a look like the blade of a dagger in the heart. Play a word
and give a million rounds in the head to be dizzy and sick. Living
with Heart ulcerated restless soul .... Oh, how many times I envied
the virtuous and humble as you! How happy would I be if not carrying
the sad and suspicious character, this pride that consumes me! ...
And who knows - after a pause he added - who knows would have been
more fortunate in another area! Maybe if it were a poor and I had
married a young modest, hardworking, intelligent, would better my
chances. Forced to help my husband take care of the estate, to think
about the details of the house and the women who work and struggle,
had not got to where I might .... I needed a loving husband, sweet,
a talented man who knew address .... Today, Mom, as I am accustomed
to luxury and the life of society, I would retire to like it, I would
move to a corner happy, back in the field, far from Madrid. I would
take more than a little love and have it you by my side to inspire
good feelings.

The spirit of Clementina, impressed by the childishness
of Serrano Street, for adventure that innocent schoolgirl, was inclined
to the idyllic feelings. Good Ms Carmen heard her and encouraged her
with affectionate smile. The secrets of the beautiful lady lasted
a long time. He remembered his days as a child, when her stepmother
had the declarations of love had been done at the ball last night
and he read the little notes it submitted its worshipers. That return
to her happy past. Tempted Pepe was the talk of Castro and Raymond
and expose the childish emotions which agitated his soul that morning,
but a feeling of respect held her back. The Duchess was so excessively
condescending that played at the limits of stupidity. Why try Esperancita
persuade that you die for it? Do you think that is good for something? Procura convince her otherwise
and see how much better the result.

- What to do? - Asked anxiously.

- Do not get so tired you manifest, man. Do not be such a melon. Do not go home much. Do not
look with eyes half-slaughter sheep.

Bring the opposite when you say something stupid: insinúala that there are women like you more.
Take a bit of tone, and you'll see how the making better-looking case ....

- I can not, I can not, Pepe! - Ramon said running his hand across his forehead at the height
of Grief -. At first he was still master of myself, I could talk with ease and flirting with
others .... Today it is impossible! So stunning I have before me, I atortolo, I say more than
nonsense. If I find it particularly bad mood. Each answer leaves me yours ice cream. You can not
imagine why so dismissive tone that girl knows how to draw when he wants. If I try to talk to
the other, simply that I put Hope's smiling face to let her immediately.

I have come to spend a month without addressing just the word, but finally I could not resist
any longer and went to surrender.

I prefer their conversation, but abuse me, to all other ....

They were silent as if you walk under the weight of a terrible tragedy. Pepe Castro meditated.

-
You're lost, Ramon - he finally pulling the tip of the cigarette
and rubbing the nipple with the tissue before storing -.

You're completely lost. All that you tell me no common sense.

Conduct yourself if you knew you had not reached such a state.

Women they are always treated with the tip of the boot, then go admirably ....

After pouring these brief and profound words, stepped in front of a window.

- Man, look at so beautiful necklace. If you come well to Perl bought it.

Ramon looked at the collar without seeing it, entirely absorbed in his saddest thoughts.

- Well, yes, Ramoncillo - continued the distinguished wild throwing an arm around the shoulder - you
are lost .... However, I am committed to ensuring that you would hope so you to do what I said
.... Tested my method.

- Rehearse what you want. I want to exit at any cost in this situation - said Councilman moved.

-
Well, look, so you will not go home soon Calderon but eight or ten
days .... We will together or we will be there.

You should not be alone: ​​In a moment of weakness would miss to lose all the work. Speak little
hope and much to the girls there are. Procura extol blondes, to high, the white, in short, women
with type opposed to it and be sure to get excited enough. Bring the contrary, but no hurry much.
You are very stubborn and should not play too much. A soft and contemptuous tone takes best effect.
It is best to look at me from time to time. I will make a sign with dissimulation: so you will
always treading on firm ....

Yet, before reaching the door of the house of Calderon Castro had time to enlarge other valuable data
with this gallant didascalon sample of his talent.

Only an intelligence wonderfully perspicuous and utilized together with long experience, just a refined
spirit could penetrate so deeply into the secret conflict that resistance to devote Hope Ramoncito
his heart, he had created. At the same time was the only one who could provide a solution satisfactory.
The young councilman came to her beloved home in a state of relative tranquility. As for his
intimate purposes, we can only say he was determined to put on a great aspect of dignity and
resistance to openly oppose invasive tendencies Calderón of the girl.

Thought it appropriate to start putting your hands in your pockets and folded lips with a smirk
ironic and protective. Thus came into the room where the family was gathered wealthy banker, swinging
his head as if he could not because of her countless of thoughts
that kept indoors, the elegant manners of rude manners there more
than a step, as the sublime to the ridiculous.

So we dare not ensure that Ramon, the first stage of his conversation with Esperanza, it's
always kept this side of elegance. There are some grounds for thinking that it was not so.
What, saving our awareness of true historians can say is that pretty soon Esperancita time to
notice, after warning that it did not cause the deep impression which was expected.

In the sewing cabinet where introduced, they were embroidering Ms Hope, Mariana and Esperanza.
Or talking with accuracy, which were embroidered Dona Esperanza and Esperanza: Mariana remained
seated in a chair, staring into space in perfect stillness. Pepe Castro and Ramon were close
friends of the family and were received without ceremony and welcome. After a few handshakes elusive,
with the sole exception of Maldonado to Esperanza, which was not done intentionally because it was
distracted to give decent start to the large number of slights of any kind that torment their
thought adored acomodáronse in separate chairs.

Mariana alongside Pepe, Ramon with Ms Hope. Before doing so, the youth council has already had
a moment of weakness.

Seeing something Esperancita away from his mother and grandmother
thought it was propitious occasion to have conversation with her secret,
and hesitated in taking his seat there.

Castro A look expressive of him back in agreed.

- Buenos eyes seeing you, Pepe - Esperanza said, fixing his own, laughing
and nothing ugly in the famous wild.

- Precious are those who are
seeing now - Ramon said quickly.

Castro, before answering, he looked back severely.

The councilman, stunned, said to amenguar a bit his clumsiness:

- Because this is a family of pretty eyes.

- Thanks, Ramon. And you begin to be false as all politicians - said Mariana.

- Always righteous, Mariana! - Said that, red with pleasure, hearing
himself called a public man.

- How many days has it been since I've
been here - Castro asked the girl.

- The least fifteen .... You see,
has been the last time on Monday .... Pacita was here .... Today is
Saturday .... Thirteen just days.

Never had such a mind the days when Maldonado visiting the house.

Castro welcomed This indifferent interest test.

- I did so many days .... How time flies! said deeply.

- Sure! You are flies away from us.

The young man smiled kindly and asked permission to light a cigarette. Then he said:

- No, still happens to me more quickly beside you.

- More than at
Aunt Clementina? - Asked the girl in an innocent tone that cast doubt
of his intention.

Castro became serious and stared. His relations with the daughter
had Salabert hitherto kept quite secret.

Which were discovered at the home of his sister husband was disturbed.

Esperanza was like a cherry under the gaze of the young.

- Same -
concluded by saying coldly -.

All are good friends.

- Are you going home today from my sister? - Mariana said without
realizing what was happening.

- Ramon and I'll go: Is not today Saturday?

And you?

- I have no desire to receive. A few days ago I feel a little discomfort in the throat.

- Do not say you're sick, Mom. Say that you like better go to bed early - said Esperancita
with bad humor.

The mother looked at her with big eyes, dull.

- I have a sore throat, girl.

- What a coincidence! - Said it in ironic twang -. I have not heard it until now.

- If you feel like going - said Mariana finishing guess - you take your dad.

- You know that Dad, not leaving you, not come out.

Esperanza's tone revealed spite. Through the eyes of Ramon spent a flash of joy legitimate and
a look of triumph to his friend Pepe. She showed like going from
he knew that he would attend as well.

The conversation began shooting on public areas, stopping with a predilection
in most common of all in court, or on Real theater artists.

It spoke of the beauty of Tosti.

Ramon, touched by the victory he had gained, he wanted to deny it;
cursed tall women, and especially the blondes.

He did not like more than the rates skinned, round-faced, of medium
height and dark-eyed (well, that of Esperanza; needed was not named).

Your friend Pepe, alarmed by the relief that looked at first with all the plans that they had
agreed siege, he made a lot of hidden winks until he got to bring
it on track.

But he did so badly, that is, began to contradict in a way so pitiful
that the ladies did notice right away.

Were stunned and made a mess, which could not go out without a coat
that very time he threw his friend and teacher.

To repair a bit of awkwardness began to tell what had happened the
previous day at City Hall, with such details, which soon Mariana yawning
like a blessed it was, and Ms Hope became involved in embroidery and
showed signs of thinking about things very different.

Esperancita ended up making a sign to Castro to approach.

This was due moving to a seat near her.

- Hey, Joe - the girl said softly, shaking -. Recently I've seen you get me seriously. I do not
know whether I said something that might annoy.

If so, forgive me.

- Do not know what you allude. I do not bother anything can you tell me a girl so pretty and as nice
as you - said the young man with his beautiful smile Sultan.

- I'm glad it was only apprehension .... Thank you very much for the flowers, if you feel them,
which I doubt .... I hurt in my soul cause you an upset ....

Saying
these last words, she blushed to the ears.

- Well I have news that
you are fond of giving.

- Oh, no!

- So says my friend Ramon.

Esperanza's face darkened when he heard this name.

A severe wrinkle across her forehead virginal.

- I do not know why he says.

- Is not no remorse you conscience?

- Not a bit.

- Oh, what a heart so emperdenido!

- Why? If you have provided any penalty will be that he must have provoked it.

- That's what I said I .... But in the end, I think the patient is already on the way to recovery
and that there will be more available to their darts .... I see a
lot more fun to be around a few days for this part.

Castro worked sincerely and in good faith by his friend.

- I am very glad that was the case - said the girl with perfect naturalness.

Castro made an impassioned defense of his friend recommended it to all practical effect of benevolence
Hope. But when you pour it into the ear of some exaggerated words of praise, the tone dismissive of
the pronounced and not smirk fell from his lips, refute enough. While this was not the daughter
of Calderón any, received with the same hostility.

- Come on, Pepe, you feel like rag!

- That yes, Esperanza, yes! Ramon has a great future and it would be difficult to time you see a minister.

The council, meanwhile, explained with the fluidity that characterized him, and Ms Mariana Hope,
how he had discovered a fraud of consideration on the rights of consumption. Three hundred
and fifty hams had been introduced a few days ago, with the consent of matute some employees
of the municipality. Ramon thought to bring these employees to the bar very short term. Mariana
begged him not be too severe with them would be such Once parents. But he could not soften.
Undoubtedly, the principles of justice City were most adamant that their neck muscles, judging
by the countless of times he turned his head toward the spot where Pepe Esperancita and chatted.
Was not jealous. He had full confidence in the loyalty of his friend. But he liked her adored
him listen when he pronounced the sentence: "the bar", "I think opinion in the wrong direction"
"Municipal law requires appraisals, etc.., So that the angel of love is out penetrating the high
destinies that luck had it reserved so joining a man strong and as
administrative.

All those speeches aloud, they were just a continuous invitation to tender once entered "in the
realm of formality."

Steps were heard in this next room, and a cough that those present knew admirably. Ms Hope,
to hear, delivered in haste, rather, showed the work that had hand in the lap of her daughter. When
Calderon came, Mariana embroidered with affected application while his mother stood hand over
hand, as if he long time that would be in that position.

Ramon and Castro barely set at the maneuver. The reason for it was that Calderon did not forgive
his wife, apathy, laziness, judging these vices as true calamities often considered unlucky
for a woman to have joined so lazy. Not that it mattered little work, much at home, but his
temperament worker indefatigable revealed in the presence of another so diametrically opposite.
Slack, the Mariana abandonment clenched his nerves, gave rise to bitter quarrels and answers frequent.
She lightly defended. He alleged that his parents had raised for laborer, because it had sufficient
means to live as a lady. D. This Julian is furious even more, shouting that everyone has the
duty to work, at least do something. The complete idleness is incomprehensible. The woman
is obliged to care for is not wasted household finances because it does not help foster that,
and so on., etc. In short, the cause of domestic trouble was this hopeless laziness of Madame. Ms
Hope was very different from her daughter. Temperament active, vigilant, or more so greedy that
his son, no could never be a quarter of an hour without something in hand. In the internal affairs
the house was not very marked intervention. Calderón was pleased to order it and handle it everything
itself. And that means a contradiction that we must draw attention to that fully understand
his character. He complained bitterly that his wife did not serve to bring the housekeeping, because
he was forced to take care of him, and yet, knowing his mother served very well for that matter,
would not give it. This makes one suspect that but Mariana was a prodigy of activity and order, would
not agree not to leave the affairs of the outside indoors.

His character and sordid suspicious did you always prefer work to rest. I wish I had a hundred
eyes for them all on the objects of their membership.

Doña Esperanza also deplored the character of his daughter went very
according to the meanness of his son, helping not a little in home
monitoring.

But though often blame it for their apathy, as he had finally emerged from her womb, hurt
Calderon Doing so strongly felt the marital quarrels. So I always avoided them if I could be
at the expense of a sacrifice, covering the faults of Mariana, making
herself voluntarily guilty of them.

This was the reason for having given so quickly that it was pad embroidering.

D.

Julian came in with a book in hand, it was not the Journal or the Mayor, or the copier letters,
but the serial smoothly correspondence, I used to cut with great care and then stitched. Oddly,
D. Julian was fond of novels, but read nothing that correspondence, the pious gave his daughter
in school. Of its own accord had not ever entered a bookstore to
buy some. Not only was fond read them, but what is even more rare,
is softened significantly with them. Because he kept on his chest
a large pool of sensitivity. It was a weakness of his body, as well
as the asthma and rheumatism. The misfortunes of others, poverty,
extreme pity him. If could be remedied in any other way that was not
with money, make sure that disappear immediately. Traits of generosity
made him mourn with enthusiasm, but was judged, and with good reason,
unable to carry them out. Still made a supreme effort for violating
nature. In fact, it was no less rich beggars who had in Madrid. Had
a fixed amount to the poor and I kept track in his books as if they
were creditors. Having exhausted the monthly amount, we believe that
if he saw starving in the street to a creep, not socorrería a penny,
not a lack of sensitivity but by deep roots in his heart that had
the numbers. The idea of ​​discarding something endorsed by other
means of disposal that was not the sale was for him almost incomprehensible.
His charity had merit so much higher than others.

When he entered
the sewing manifested in the face signs of being shaken. After saying
goodbye to the strangers, uttered by sitting in a chair:

- I just
read this novel, a beautiful chapter ... Beautiful! ... I could not
resist venírselo temptation to read them ....

Stopped because no
one dared to propose to Ramon Castro and, although he wished. Was
very fond of reading aloud, through what medium did. Mariana was pleased
hear a lot in reading. So, on this side, the marriage was fine.

-
Read it, man .... I think Pepe and Ramon not mind - it said.

Castro
made a slight sign of acquiescence, Ramon was quick to express with
gestures extremes that would be a great pleasure ... he was very fond
of beautiful chapters etc. Few thanks! Coming from the father of his
beloved, would be able to listen carefully reading the table of logarithms.
 His attention, his words of affection were sometimes exaggerated: he wanted
erased with them thinking that clearly read in the eyes of the former. Other times, imagining that
could serve to doubt their sincerity, they stop and take a hit indifferent and cold. Anyway
there was between those two current concerns made them suffer, by different ways, the times when
they were together.

Ms Carmen finally fell into bed, never to rise. Clementina went there all day. The terrible time
approached. At last one morning, between two and three, called with alarm Osorio's hotel two servants
of the duke. The lady was dying. His daughter asked insistently. This hastily got up from bed,
and all the escape of their horses flew to the palace Requena. Osorio was with her. Upon entering
the room with the patient encountered Duke, who will face looked
sullen.

- You arrive on time!

You arrive on time! - Growled softly. And he walked away without another word.

Clementina thought he noticed in these words malicious intent and bit his lip in anger. The
sad scene offered his view, just approached the bed of Ms Carmen managed to briefly shut down their
hatred. The unfortunate lady was showing on his face signs death, deathly pallor, the taper of
the nose, eyes glazed over and around of them a dark circle, purple. At his side and stood the
priest who urged to repent. (What?) At the foot of the bed, Marcela, her former maid, cried hiding
the face with his handkerchief. Two other servants watched from far away with frightened faces,
rather than sore, that pitiful picture. There in a corner the doctor wrote a prescription.

On
seeing his daughter, the duchess turned her eyes toward her and extended
expression of anxiety a hand to call.

Come, my dear - "His voice was quite clear. And after taking his hand went between both of his yellow,
emaciated, terrible exclaimed looking at her steadily in the eye

- I die, my dear, I'm dying!

Is not it true that you feel it? ... Why at least not you glad?

- Oh, Mama!

- Say that you are happy - eagerly insisted without removing his gaze from the eyes of the young.

-
Mom, for God's sake - he said it stunned and terrified at the same
time.

- Say that you're happy! - Repeated with even more power lifting
at the expense of great efforts head, staring hard.

- No, mother
of the soul, no! If I could preserve his life at the expense of mine,
I swear to you that I would.

The large opaque eyes of the dying softened. He put her head on pillow, and after a short silence
and a muffled voice said hesitantly

- It would be ungrateful ... yes, very ungrateful .... Your poor mom loved you so much! ... Give
me a kiss .... Do not cry .... I feel let the world .... What hurt me is that you, my daughter
heart ... you .... What a horrible thought! I have suffered much!

The priest brought at the time asking her to leave the worldly thoughts.

The sick listened humbly, devoutly repeated the prayers that she read aloud. The doctor and the
Duke came to put a shock, but noting that began rattle, the doctor
made a gesture and grabbed his arm to duke it out outside the stay.

Ms Carmen cast a haggard eyes, glassy, ​​and all of them and stopping
them in Clementina beckoned again one approaching.

- Farewell, child
- said without looking at her, his eyes fixed on the ceiling -.

You do well to rejoice of my death ....

- You say, Mom! - Said that with a cry of horror.

- It's good .... I am glad that my death serve you something .... If I could give you in life
that I belong ... have given you everything .... It's sad right?

... Have to die to make you happy .... I would have enjoyed seeing you both happy! ... Farewell,
my dear, goodbye ... ever remember your poor mom ....

- Mother of my soul - shouted the lady fell down and bursting into tears -. I do not want I die,
no! ... I've been very bad ... but I've always wanted ... and I respected
....

- Do not be silly - said the dying woman in an effort to smile
and stroked her head with skeleton hand -.

It does not hurt to gloat .... Who cares? ... Die happy knowing that you will owe me some happiness
.... I recommend the old ladies of asylum .... Protect them, my daughter ... Marcela is already good,
too .... Bye bye all .... Forgive me the evil I have done ....

Rattle
grew, sounded more strident and more grim by the minute.

Clementina's sobs and cut at intervals Marcela notes that snoring fatal. Duke, trembling, altered,
drag it left the end of the room.

Ms Carmen did not speak again. His eyes closed, mouth slightly open,
the body alone.

From time to time up a little eyelids and looked affectionately at his stepdaughter kneeling. The
priest read a nasal voice, plaintive, the prayers of his book.

Thus died the Duchesse de Requena. Leave her, let her go!

Some days later, Clementina and her husband, despite the professed unquenchable hatred, held long
and frequent conferences. The great question of inheritance temporarily united. Clementina morning
and afternoon visiting his father. Osorio also often went to the palace Requena. Either the
old thousand attentions lavished, pitied her solitude, her spoiled. There was some familiarity
affectionate behavior that fits very well with some children that
will protect the venerable old age of a parent.

The Duke was left watching worship with that sly look more tenderly. When they returned back to leave,
followed him with eyes, lowered his eyelids slowly, stirring between his lips and the American
fig sketching in his face was a grin that lasted even a few seconds after of out of sight.

Things
continued in the state before. Despite the will of the Duchess was strict, Salabert did not deign
to speak a word of interest. Continue to have their chief flow delivered to business with absolute
confidence. His daughter and her husband lost it to see this attitude. Began to live rough,
to communicate to every moment with violence impressions, to form plans to bring an explanation.
Clementina Osorio claimed that you speak. This thought was she who had kindly ask for an explanation
before from making a complaint.

After several days of hesitation, finally decided the wife to address a few words to his father,
though with some hesitation and pregnancy, he knew the character
of this and better yet your own.

- Let's see, dad - he said, finding
him alone in the office, with affected gaiety -.

When I talk about money?

- What money? ... Why? - Duke responded with surprise, looking at her face so innocent that
made you want to slap him.

- Why should it be? to find out what concerns me. Am I not the only universal Mom's heir? - replied
without leaving the jovial tone, but with some alteration in voice
well perceptible.

- Ah, yes - said the Duke, making a hand gesture
of indifference -.

We will discuss later ... Much later!

Clementina turned pale. Anger made her jump to her blood.

His lips trembled and was about to say nonsense.

- It would be nice, however, we understood we ...-- murmured faintly.

- Nothing, nothing, not talk now. When you have time and mood and I will deal with those things.

He
spoke with such confidence and indifference not without contempt,
that his daughter had to choose between give free rein to the tongue,
to break with his father in a violent way, or leave.

Decidióse, after a moment's hesitation about this. He turned on his heels, and without a word goodbye
left the room and got into the car, in a state of excitement that shook whole body.

When he got home he ran to lock herself in her room and gave out the fury that seized. He cried,
kicked and tore his clothes, broke a piece of junk. Osorio also mounted angry and said he would
do and events. All this was not, however, rather than a letter that, with enough respect, his father
invited him to manifest the state of their finances, to kick off early trading inventory.
Salabert did not answer this letter. We wrote another. Neither. They stopped to visit. Clementina
did not want go "not to make a scandal." Osorio was not considered sufficient moral force,
since the state of their marital relationships, with power to claim the wealth of his wife. In this predicament
talked to some friends of the Duke of respect, and sent them as medians. They fulfilled their task:
they spoke with the old, and after several interviews resolved to bring about a friendly meeting
so that the case go to court. Efectuóse this, after some resistance by Clementina, in the palace of
father. It was attended, besides stakeholders Ortega's father, Count Cotorraso, Calderon and Jimenez
Arbós. The latter (which had ceased to be a minister and was in opposition) opened the meeting
broaching a speech "conciliatory tone" excited to Concord for not giving the public the spectacle
of a dispute between father and daughter money issues, show that, given his high position in
the world, could not to be repugnant. Followed him in using the word Father Ortega, who with persuasive
accent and unctuous that characterized him, after giving them, like the Duke to their children
a good crazy praise soap to put soft, appealed to his Christian feelings, they This was a bad
example that would, I painted the sweetness of love and sacrifice mutual and concluded by promising
them eternal glory.

Clementina said the first she had no other wish than to continue to hold with his father the same
relations of affection and respect that until then, and that to achieve was willing to do whatever
was possible. The hard, dry tone that gave these words and the scowl that accompanied them did not provide
clear evidence of his sincerity.

However, the duke said so moved.

- Arbós! Father! You, my children! Everyone knows my character perfectly .... For me, outside
the family there is no happiness possible .... After the terrible blow that out of suffering,
the only thing I have left in the world is my daughter .... Here I have concentrated all my love,
my hope and my pride .... I worked for her, I fought tirelessly, have met I own the capital ....
I can say I've never felt the need for money rather than my woman (God rest his soul) and my
daughter ..., by viewing them happy being surrounded by and luxury .... I always have enough to
live four quarters, as you know. Today I am old, more so .... What do I and millions? Soon I will
be forced to take the train to another neighborhood, eh, Julian? And thou likewise. Consequently,
to whom may come up that I will fight as a matter of pennies to the daughter of my heart ... Here
there has been more than a mistake. I needed time to clarify my issues .... That's all .... But if
you have thought otherwise, my dear, I can only tell you this .... What's in this house is yours
and always has been.

Take it whenever you want .... Take, daughter, take it .... I simply nothing ....

As he uttered these last words visibly moved, his eyes wanted arrasársele tears. All samples were
also of emotion and burst into phrases conciliation. Ortega's father Clementina gently pushed
into the arms of his father, and although she was less agitated, he finally stopped hugging him,
that was a good time tight.

When released it took the handkerchief to her eyes and sank into a chair, beaten by the weight
of so much emotion.

After this no one dared to remember touching scene of interest. The meeting broke up tightening
all hands cordially and warmly welcoming the success of flattery
his efforts.

But Clementina Osorio and his car ran into serious, frowning, and
no talked all the way a word.

Only when I got home the wife whispered accent angrily

- We'll see
how to play!

Osorio shrugged and replied:

- I give it by sight.

Neither is wrong.

The Duke and gave them a penny again or talk to any of the inheritance.

He was very affectionate with them: They did eat many days at home, complaining of loneliness,
until he spoke sometimes businesses that were pending, but nothing to settle their share share.

Clementina became irritated as abruptly left to go home. Mediate again cards. They could not
get more than answers ambiguous, vague hopes. Finally decided to sue, and began a lawsuit that
shook with joy to the curia.

Clementina stopped for all happiness. Thereafter he lived in a state of perpetual irritation, following
with eager interest the incidents of the case, draining the attorney, attorneys, seeking to
counter the powerful influence of the duke.

This led the matter with much more calm, I tangled with skill desperate, taking advantage of the violence
she showed to make it appear in the eyes of society as ambitious and unnatural. This did not
prevent that its intimate let go once in a while one of his derisive phrases and cynical,
that it reached the ears of popping fury. The fighting was doing increasingly fierce. On the
other hand, creditors Osorio, disappointed in their hopes, began to turn against him and threatened
to leave him ruined. It is easy to represent the agitation, violence, unrest that would prevail
in the hotel in the Rue de Don Ramón de la Cruz.

This discomfort, and may even be said unfortunately, involved the then lucky Raimundo. The spirit
and the body of Clementina, disturbed by the tumult of other passions, could not resting in
the sweetness of love. The moments that you gave it became increasingly short and restless. Talks
became extinct happy, boisterous, which once maintained.

The beautiful lady and did not like to tease her young lover. He could not remember even those joyous,
childish scenes in which they delighted, now making it to queen court
receives their ministers and kisses playing cards or in a thousand
other trifles that he set to adolescence.

Now just could talk about anything but their lawsuit. Her nerves were so excited that with the
slightest word was fired and mounted in furious anger.

Furthermore, given the vehement interest in his father's success,
growing their Escosura flirtation with newly appointed minister.

This was, as it should be assumed that most was unfortunate the young entomologist.

One day, he was more affectionate than usual, sitting at his feet holding him and stroking hair with
her beautiful, delicate fingers loaded with rings, said in his sweet accent:
- You continue with your jealousy of Escosura. Eh, World? ... As
you do really bad .... I do not like small or great man ....

- Yes,
that I've said many times ... but ....

- No buts about it, wayward
child - said happily tugging at the ear -. Nor have I loved, I can
not love anyone but you. All men seem to me ugly, stupid and presumptuous
by your side .... But (here comes my but!) Unfortunately you're not
a minister, but deserve more than anyone I know .... You know that
my fortune is now in the hands of justice, that of overnight I can
get without a peseta. Speaking of the family was deeply and eloquent.
For the father Ortega was the family that was respect and love for tradition, respect and love
for our ancestors. "The family is a tradition, tradition glories, name, honors, virtues and
memories, and all that means one thing, love, esteem and respect for elders, that is, at most
generous and conservative is in the family. "On this occasion the speaker thundered against the
revolution, against the wind blowing from hell to destroy everything old and glorify it again,
against that contempt barbaric customs, laws, institutions, of the glories of our ancestors.
"The revolution is written on its flag: the greatest contempt. Why not, if the ancient beliefs,
ancient customs, the old institutions, the ancient aristocracies, despite what in them, as
in all things human, may lie on least, represent the work of our ancestors, intelligence, the
glory, the soul, the lives and hearts of our fathers? And if so, how revolutionary science cast
on all things old disdain their stupid, there was also launched on their rude ancestors contempt?
"A principle of family breakdown is the attack which is governed by the revolutionary school
property. This aggression is not only a direct attack against society, but an even more direct
attack against family. "The property, inheritance and heritage, what are they but the cult of the
ancestors and love to the children? The property is the present, past and future of the family;
is the place where it grows and expands over time, is the soil that ensured grandparents will,
as now under the soles of the seed that rises blessing. "

About an hour was the wise Piarist settled on solid bases the existence of Christian family.
These bases were nothing more than religion, property and tradition.

He spoke with authority, in a simple and persuasive tone, with dapper and proper word. The
attentive audience listened to him, submissive, convinced it was the Holy Spirit by the mouth
the venerable priest ordered them to be very careful with the tradition, religion, and especially
with the property. This sublime thought I was building so that the count of Cotorraso and some
other large landowners who were there, they were united eternally the Supreme Being by the
sacred bond of landed property and promised to fight for she heroically in the Senate oppose any
law that directly or indirectly would prejudice his integrity.

After the Piarist is repressed complied with smiles and shouts of enthusiasm. All spoke in
falsetto respecting the sacred enclosure.

Miss leathery that had asked before what would become of her if the father missing Ortega ran to
take the hand and kissed it repeatedly with outburst that changed a few looks of mockery bystanders.
The father withdrew abruptly with visible disgust. And rose again the gallery several ladies
and gentlemen, and executed, in every sense of the word, some Gounod's religious melodies.

At
last they left the chapel all those pious souls and went to the salon.

The Marquise de Alcudia, whose will could not ever be at rest, prepared
to meet what he had promised his nephew.

 Lola had sent him a sarcastic smile that you just exasperated. He went at the door.

- I am sorry to have bothered you - you said coldly when they were away.

Raimundo looked surprised.

When no one heard them used to tutearle.

- Annoyance?

None.

- Yes, because apparently, you were very comfortable next to this lady ....

And not being able longer to restrain his impulses, he said dully:

- Come with me.

It took the dining room where tables were already waiting for the
guests.

There in the hollow a balcony, vented his anger. Filled him with insults and hath broken relationships
definitively. He came to shake her violently by the arm. Alcazar was so stunned, so terrified,
who failed to respond. This saved him. Seeing her face painted broken where pain and surprise,
Clementina could not fail to understand that anger was cheating. In no Raimundo had been no intention
of flirting. A little calm, acknowledged the apology that gave the order.

- If just to talk to you is what I get close to it.

- Ah! Why talk about me?

... Look, from now on do not talk about me. Simply I want.

The servants who went there, looked on the corner of my eye and winked
malicious.

When leaving Pepa Frias encountered. The buxom widow was very well dressed, had heard endless
compliments. Foreign princess wore the time of Charles III, silver lama recamos with gold
and blue velvet cloak. A square neckline could be seen all too clearly Pepa what must consider
more interesting in person, judging by the predilection that it showed.

- Girl, I have a hungry wolf - came in saying -. When you have just
opened the buffet? Ah!

"So you are going through the corners? Prudence, Clementina, prudence! ... Daughter, I can not
wait more, give me something to eat, or I fall.

Clementina was laughing at a corner and made him serve some dishes.

Alcázar became the rooms very happy, but even by the violent trembling emotion that his mistress
had actually experience. Never seen her so angry.

Her friendship with Pepa was riveted from the scene we have described
earlier.

The widow was convinced that the salvation of his fortune was based on this love and tried to
promote it. Thanks to him, was rescued and gradually, a large part
of it.

The rest did not hurried. Da knew.

Carmen had a Will in favor of his stepdaughter, and even though the
lady had improved somewhat, was certain death in a short time.

Doctors it had discovered a tumor.

They dared not operate because of its extreme weakness.

A lot Clementina made her grace the ease, even better, the cynicism of Pepa. Both admirably understood.
Both were chulapas, two manolas born too late and in condition little wealthy to their social nature.
Of course, it was much more Pepa legitimate Clementine who did not carry the mass of blood: veniale
hobby.

- Look, Clemen, you're decrying - I said it, while voraciously devoured
a piece of turkey in aspic -.

Leave that boy is not worth a small dog .... To whim has already been enough.

- What do you know what it's worth? - Clementina replied laughing.

- On the traces, the daughter .... Dulce seems to be made in the Alliance. It takes more than
a year in relations you, and still gets red as a turkey when you order.

- Well, that's precisely what I like.

Pepa shrugged indifferently.

- Really?

For me it would be a calamity, my dear.

- And Arbós, how he behaves?

- This is an utter fool, you know -
said with his mouth full - but at least has facade.

In saying that he is a great man is thrown headlong into the water
for you .... You do not know .... I placed in the Ministry more than
two dozen relatives .... Then glad to have some political influence
and that the deputies to be pampered.

Yesterday, in fact, I had a visit Mauritius Chamber, who wants at all costs be undersecretary.
It seems sure that be, will give his daughter Urreta.

- I hate politics .... Do you know that Irene is really cute with his suit jacket? ...

- Ps! vistosilla ....

- No, no, really cute. Where walks her husband, that I have not seen more than to get in?

- Does your husband? Valiente rascal is her husband! - Exclaimed angrily raising his head -. Oh
what trouble, dear, what big trouble as I have on me - he said with his mouth full.

- Maria Huerta? - Clementina asked in a confidential tone.

- Same - muttered the widow, staring at the turkey. Then Curling soon: - It is a rogue you know? a
scoundrel, who can not even keep the decorum of their women. Most of the days waiting at the
exit of San Pascual and the accompanying foot to his house.

In the theater does not take away the twins off. A mess! Although a bad husband, who has dignity.
And my daughter Panfila, crazy, lost him. You have seen what asshole! Does nothing but mourn and
ask jealousy .... What more do you want to see it that monigotillo humiliated! ... If I were
in your case I will tell him! ... I put him on a contraption seguidita in his head that would
not fit through that door.

The exaltation of his spirit kept him from swallowing nicely.

- God bless you, daughter - he concluded by saying rising -.

See if this heart is still for a while.

Pepa wanted to suffer from a broken heart that he was only calmed by eating.

A few minutes after leaving two friends in the dining room, Clementina gave the necessary orders and
the buffet was opened solemnly. Real people first entered accompanied by his servants and
masters of the house. Remaining Salabert had his dinner. The large dining room ceiling coffered
ceiling like a blaze of gold. The flowers of vivid colors, exotic fruits, the silverware, glassware,
under the powerful gas lamps flickered like heaven star, producing a strong glare. The servants
with coat and white wig, waiting motionless against the wall, stiff and solemn. In the two heads
of huge burning room oak logs in fireplaces paths carved oak reredos, whose ornaments almost
reached the ceiling. All the dishes that were on the table had come from Paris accompanied
a retinue of servants and scullions. It exempted the fish, which
came from the Cantabrian and a pudding evening arrived in London.

They were mostly stiffs. However, there hot consommé you asked.

Real people were very few moments in the dining room.

So I rushed out in it the wave of the crowd with hard little ceremony. The halls were silent
on power of the servants, that with regularity and precision of soldiers changed the spark plugs
next extinct by new ones, while the dining room resounded with the ringing of the dishes and cups,
the talk and laughter of the guests.

Cobo Ramirez left for a while leaving Esperancita held by its rival, to sit in a corner table
in front of a wheel and eat a few pieces of boeuf d'Hambourg and ham. Of course, Ramon took
advantage of this relief to highlight the contrast between his frugality poetic and prosaic
Cobo gluttony, until he stood feet Esperancita crossly telling her
friend Paz, who was on the other side:

- Well, I like men who eat
a lot.

- Me too - said Pacita -.

At least indicates that they are sick stomach.

- I do not I have not - was quick to say the councilman, suffocated
and annoyed by the attitude hostile to the two girlfriends had been
placed.

Peace was content to smile contemptuously.

The general Patiño, tired of sending deadly projectiles Calderón's wife without the square give
cognizance even had lifted the siege to lay siege to the Marquise
Ujo that the grenades had capitulated first opening its doors to the
enemy.

However, general, and strategically accomplished, never lost sight of Mariana, waiting for any
incident favorable to fall back on it. Was said in the newspapers
that was to be appointed Minister of War.

This charge, of course, would give it more prestige and authority to enter the alarm anywhere.
The Marquise of Ujo Turkish wore suited her so well that, by Alcantara, wanted to let go a shot.
Her languor was so that night, barely had the strength to articulate the words. At every step the
illustrious general was seen in the need to help in such daunting
task.

While gnawing with their teeth rickety some pasta otherwise they would not admit his stomach,
also a little damaged, lecturing, rather, exhaled a series of exclamations about certain novel
recently published in France.

- What a scene! ... Ah!

But what thing so beautiful ... When she says: "Enter the fourth
if you want: you can stain my body but my soul ...."

Oh, and when going to the place of grief and get the bullet that was addressed to her husband!
... How very cute!

...

Pepe Castro snails (pardon the metaphor) around Lola Madariaga.

This he had evil laugh what happened a while ago, when Clementina suddenly appeared where she
was with Alcazar. He spoke as if he had pulled the gallant to her friend, protector accent and
disdain that would have made a leap to the proud daughter of Salabert
if by chance the I had heard.

- Poor Clemen!

It's getting old, right? Which figure has yet!

Is clear that tightening force, and sooner or later it's going to hurt, but anyway .... The face
does not correspond to the figure, do not you think?

Especially now that he is tarnishing the skin of a horrific way.

It has always been the face very hard.

And while his eyes looked clear and smooth Castro with such sweetness,
you really was for indigestion.

He had always been told (and it was true) that his face was very
sweet.

To further enhance this quality put stupid face.

Castro nodded to all, both flatter and by the ill will that had to Clementina. Lola was not
interested, but following his break with it was a bit comforted celebration: although this
had no small part a desire not to appear defeated the eyes of the
world.

- And you think you really love that kid looks like a schoolgirl
Sacred Heart?

- Go figure!

Clementina boasts much original. This latest adventure proves it
.... Look what he is casting glances tender baby from afar.

Raimundo, standing there in the end of one of the tables, not take his eyes off his beloved, who was
back and forth from one place to another by preventing the desires
of those who most wanted guests please.

From time to time sent him a faint smile carrying intelligence the young to the seventh heaven.

Pepa
Frias, if not eat because I was gorged, pinched in fruits and sweets, taking behind his chair
to Calderón, Pinedo, Fuentes and three or four gentlemen thugs throw enjoyed in the language.
Not the bit, in fact, the fresh widow. He defended himself admirably of stopping and answering all
the shots with skill.

- Where does it say you have gout, Pepa?

- On foot, Pinedo, feet ... where you have the talent.

- Even if you insult me, I wish I could remove that drop ... Having even a you drop!

- Few thanks! It would be a drop of aromatic essence - Minister of State said a sweet sick.

- What do you know, man, if you have not gotten the nose rather than the chorus of both sexes?

The
counselor blushed. Everyone laughed at the reference.

- But how cruel you are, Pepa! - Sources said still laughing -. Those
who are not here We know nothing ... (I say, gentlemen, I speak for
myself), odor, color or flavor you; but we do not disenfranchise you
figure out something that is tasty and tender.

- Tender? ... Are
you in an unfortunate error.

- I say I see ...-- said bringing his
face to the lush bosom of the widow ...-- Y by the way: what brings
you on that pin? Is it a family portrait?

The pin was a monkey.

-
No. Fuentes - replied angrily - is a mirror.

The whole group came
a spontaneous laughter he brought the heads of those who were near.

Fuentes
was shortened for a moment, but as a man of genius who was known to
recover.

- I will be mono, Pepa, but you're really cute.

- Bravo,
Fuentes, bravo! - Said Calderon, who, as a man exclusively due and
have, caused astonishment any appropriate sentence.

The shooting
continued even after leaving the majority of people in the halls.
The group was reinforced with some Pollastre. This was the reason
I get up Pepa abruptly after saying,

- I'm going. For my sake you
are to scandalize these beings tender and naive.

Chickens protested
uproar.

Populated shortly after the dance halls again retired real
people. Was to dismiss the same ceremony, that is, the serried ranks
at the door of the hall, the Royal March by the orchestra and the
dismissal of the owners until the staircase.

Clementina breathed
freely. A slow pace, enjoying the pleasure of having completed a task
hard, went through the halls directing his laughing eyes everywhere,
leaving flow her lips nice little words to the friends with whom stumbled.
That splendid dancing, maybe the most magnificent that had ever taken
a particular in Spain, his work was almost exclusively. His father
had supplied the money, but her activity, taste, artifice. Listening
the congratulations to all the step murmured, lulled into a heady
satisfaction esteem. Happiness reminded her of love, its indispensable
complement. Acometióle a keen desire to change with Raimundo, alone,
some tender words of affection, some fleeting caresses. And buscóle
with eyes in the crowd.

Raymond had wandered all night through the
halls almost always alone. He had expected the dance with childish
desire, promising pleasures live and ignored. I had never attended
one of these brilliant celebrations of aristocratic society. The reality
did not correspond to their hope, as always happens. All that vain
ostentation, luxury scandal unfolded before their view, instead of
stroking his pride wounded him cruelly. Never felt so alien in world
that had long frequented. Your thoughts, directed towards the melancholy,
representáronle his poor home, where his fault very soon going to
miss it necessary, modesty of his holy mother, who did not hesitate
to perform the simplest tasks of the house and his innocent sister,
that she had learned to be economical and hardworking. This
lady, much younger than Clementina, was nonetheless his close friend, confidant of its secrets.
Ate three or four times a week with her, and rare was the day I did not leave walk together. I could
not call it beautiful, but her face was so animated, his eyes shone with such grace and folded
her mouth with such malice smile revealing a teeth and tiny white mouse, who had always had
many admirers. Maiden was a downright coquetuela: retortero brought the men, enjoying in monopolize
all lavishing the same smiles landslides, scorching looks identical to the son of a duke that
a clerk of eight thousand reais, the venerable old bald nose arremolachada that the young man
of twenty gallant and handsome, the rich and the poor, the noble and the commoner. His flirtation,
like in this love of Jesus Christ to mankind, matched all castes, all states, joined in holy men of
the fire community to take part admirable their dark eyes, a very cute dimples that made her cheeks
to laugh and other multitude of gifts and fruits with which the providence of God had endowed.
After getting married, still showed the same affectionate kindness to mankind, but in a way
more thereafter, that is, a man after another or, at most, two by two. Her husband was a Mexican
Indian rich with features of the physiognomy.

Shortly after they entered the room Fuentes, a dapper man, ugly, stunted,
quite marked by smallpox.

No one knew what lived: suponíansele some rents. Frequented all classrooms in some semblance
of the court and sat at the table better supplied. Their titles for it was the man going through lively
and sparkling conversation, witty and enjoyable. Over twenty years ago had been cheering Fuentes
meals and evening parties in the capital them play the leading role comedian. Some of his jokes had
come to be proverbial; repetíanse not only in classrooms but in the tables of the cafes, and
even came to the provinces. Contrary to what usually happens in this class of men was not cursing.
His jokes did not tend to hurt people, but to brighten up the contest and force you to admire
easy, the living and subtle wit. Everything else was authorized to seize the absurdities of some absent
friend and training on them a funny phrase, but never or almost never at the expense of honor.
These qualities had made him the idol of the gatherings. None was considered complete if Fuentes
was at least a walk around it.

- Oh, Sources! Oh, Fuentes! - They shouted when he saw him appear.

And a lot of hands reached out to greet him. Pressing the first that came to colliding with
it went from then to the lady of the house, cracked voice that helped much to the comic effect,
saying:

- Excuse me, Clementina, if I'm a little late. Coming here took me by the account Perales, Perales
you know!, I have nothing to say. Then when I let go their hands, one on the corner of the
Ministry of War, fell into the hands of Count Sotolargo, and that
you know that is heavy with a fifty cent surcharge.

- Why? - Was
quick to ask Lola Madariaga.

- Because it is stuttering, ma'am.

The guests laughed, some out loud, others more discreetly. The phrase came prepared: known to the
league, but they still produced the desired effect, partly because in effect had been amused,
partly because everyone believed in the duty to be cheerful Fuentes as he opened his mouth.

A moment later a servant in livery opened wide the doors of the hall, saying aloud:

- The lady is served.

Osorio was quick to offer his arm to the Baroness of Rag and broke
up the march to the dining room followed by all the guests.

Closing the convoy was driving Baron Clementina.

The servants waited in ranks with his napkin on his arm, led by the maître. Osorio was appointed
to his post each guest. Soon they accommodate everyone. The board offered an elegant, harmonious.
The light falling from two lamps with reflectors, was highlight the bright colors of the flowers
and fruits, the white tablecloth, the brightness of glass and porcelain. However, this light,
too harsh, hurts the beauty of ladies, disfigured as a camera. To tune and produce a light smooth
and normal, Clementina was placing two candlesticks with candles to the ends of many the table. All the
ladies were more or less low-cut: some, like Pepa Frias, loudly.

The gentlemen in tails and white tie.

The conversation was at first particular: each spoke with his neighbor. The Baroness Rag, a
Belgian brown hair and eyes, rather thick, asked Osorio the names of the objects on the table.
Short time ago I was in Spain and eagerly wanted to know Castilian.

Clemence and the Baron spoke in French. Pepa Frias, who was among Arbós Pepe Castro and Jimenez,
told the first in a low

- What do you think of the snout of the
husband of Lola?

Gaucho is it that is not entirely bad?

Castro smiled with superiority that characterized him.

- Yes, must
have roped a lot of cows in the pampa.

- Until finally he lassoed
a cow to him.

- But it was in the pampa.

- I know: in the little
gardens: you do not tell me anything.

The general Patiño, true to their nature and military tradition, was deployed in guerrilla
to attack the Marquise de Ujo, beside him.

- Marquise, pearls will feel wonderfully. A soft, slightly tanned skin as yours, that reveals all
the sap and all the noon heat, requires trim East par excellence.

-
You so flattering as ever, general.

I wear pearls because it is the best I have. Its had about as beautiful as Clementina emeralds,
pearls leave in their cases - said the lady, showing teeth smile which shone quite dilapidated in some
Dentist gold points.

- Would you do wrong. Beautiful women are obliged to wear what they do best. God wants his masterpieces
are revealed in all its glory. Feel Emeralds While the lymph, but you're like the grapes of Jerez,
golden brown outside and saved heart a dizzying and intoxicating liquor.

- If you say you like a raisin!

- Oh, no, marquise! Oh, no! ...

And the general refused to fire the species and used all his eloquence to derail as if I were
faced with a hostile army.

Meanwhile the servants were beginning to turn the table presenting
the dishes.

Others with the bottle in his hand, whispering in the ears of the
guests: Sauterne, Sherry, Margaux, in cavernous tone similar to that
used by Carthusian monks to remind each other to death.

- I do not
drink more champagne frappe until the end - Pepa Frias said that behind
him.

- How much heat, Pepa, how hot! - Said Castro.

- Do not know
you well - "the widow with malicious intonation.

- Unfortunately.

-
Or fortunately.

Are you tired of Clementina?

Fuentes was not well with that whisper.

It hurt him to waste his wit in conversation particular, for a single person. He grabbed the first
opportunity by the hair to lift the voice and attract the attention of diners.

- Yesterday I have seen you in the morning in the Carrera de San Jerónimo, Fuentes - he said
Cotorraso Countess was three or four places beyond.

- According to what you call tomorrow, countess.

- It was about eleven
or so.

- So, permit me to doubt it, because until two am always in
bed.

- Oh, till two! - Cried several.

- That it is an exaggeration,
Fuentes - said the Marquise de Alcudia.

- But it is an exaggeration
aristocratic Marquise.

Who gets up first in Madrid? The sweepers, porters, the skewer.

A little later you find to opening the store clerks, some old woman
who goes to hear Mass, lackeys who go walking horses, etc. Then start
to get their empleaditos trading house and the clerks State offices
that carry the full weight of them, dressmakers, etc.., etc. A eleven
and you will find most distinguished people, army officers, students,
employees three thousand pesetas, brokers, etc. A noon start out the
big guns, negotiated leaders, bankers, some owners, but only after
two afternoon you can see on the street ministers, CEOs, to titles
Castilla, great writers ....

The guests listened spellbound this
ingenious defense of laziness and believed in For laugh and say to
each other in a low

- The Power!

Oh! This source has the grace of God!

And some, for the pleasure of hearing him nothing else, it had the opposite.

- But man, there's nothing nicer than getting up in the morning to breathe fresh air and bathe in sunlight?

-
I prefer to bathe in warm water with a bottle of Kananga.

- Can I deny you that the sun is beautiful?

- It's beautiful, but a little cursilón. I'm not saying there at the beginning of the world was
not a amazing thing, worth seeing, but you will understand that it
is now outdated.

Is there anything more ridiculous in an age so positivistic as this be called Phoebus and hair
spend Gold? In addition, the sun has no intrinsic merit.

It is there because God burning has set.

But the light of gas, electricity represent the effort of a man of
genius is the triumph of intelligence, recalls our power over matter,
sovereignty spirit throughout the universe .... Then - he added, lowering
his voice a little - at the sun can see without costing money, and
I've always hated the shows free.

The guests did not stop laughing.

Fuentes, encouraged by the laughter, overflowed in paradoxes in one-liners
and subtle, visibly falling into affectation.

What happened to him the big players too much applauded. I did not know contained in time and
came at last the ground of insanity. From here to there is more bland than a step, and gave Fuentes
frequently.

The Count of Cotorraso persisted in defending the star of the day to drive his wit detractor. The
sun was the one who encouraged Nature, who warmed up the body numb, etc.

- That the sun produces animation, deny - replied Sources -, Madrid
is much more lively at night than during the day, and I prefer warm
coke, that does not cause sunstroke .... Let's see, count, mind you,
what merit can be a thing that force must see always the first thing
you groom?

As someone said, laughing, that Fuentes had "good shadow," he replied sharply:

- Do you see it, count?

So to say that a man has grace is said to have good shadow. No one would think that you have
good sun.

And because of the shadows of the manzanillo discussed. The Marquise of Ujo asked the Mexican, Lola's husband,
if his country had manchineel. Ballesteros, who was his name, replied that no, but he had seen
many in Brazil.

The Marquise was reported with deep curiosity the particularities
of the tree, but was extremely upset when told Mexican not kill the
shadow and only the fruit off a corrosive water.

- So you sleeping
under it does not die?

- Madam, I have not slept you know, but I
have several friends Debah almorsado one and we has pasao ná.

- So
how Selika commits suicide in the African sleeping in the shade of
that tree?

- This is a hoax, a invensión of the poet you know?

It will be a beautiful thing, but no nothing is right.

The Marquise, disappointed by that fact realistic, would not leave his poetic belief, argued maybe the
manchineel in India were different from those of Brazil.

Hablóse productions of Mexico.

- Is it true that you have eight hundred thousand cows, Ballesteros?
- Asked Clementina.

- Oh, madam, that's a exagerasión!

At best it will my herd is tresientas thousand.

- If they were mine - said Fuentes - build a pool larger than the
Retiro, would fill milk and sail for it.

- We do not utilisamo milk,
sir, not butter either.

Wash your meat any of convertimo in tasaho you know? and esportamo. But usually only get me
from the hides you know?

The horn also sell me for making the object pole.

- That you burn! You burn! - Pepe Castro said softly.

But while not hear Arbós Jiménez, who was on the other side of Pepa Frias, and not undertaken a
fit of laughter that tried with all his might suffocate.

- Anda,
Barbiana, alárgame that bottle of mustard - Pepa Frias said Clementina
addressing to cover also the laughter that he had undertaken.

- Bajbiana,
bajbiana .... What is that bajbiana? - Asked the Baroness de Osorio
in Rag desire to quickly learn Spanish.

This was quick to explain as he could.

Pepa talked from time to time by the low to Arbós Jiménez. They used to be some rapid phrases
intelligence that proved they were and at the same time the desire
to be prudent.

The conversation with Pepe Castro, who had left, was more animated.

- Why do not advise you to eat more meat Arbós? - Asked the dandy in his ear.

- Why?

- For what you usually eat meat, for nutrients and to withstand forces that the hardships that
our duties imposed on us.

- Ya! - Said the widow with an ironic intonation -.

Look for himself and let others fix accounts as God implies.

- You see I try to nurture.

- Yes, but also go a little brain, because when you least expect you
fall Street fool.

- Have you ever offended you? - Asked, laughing
as if this stylish the craziest thing the world.

- No, man, no, is
that I think so.

Clementine can not understand how to suffer like narcissus.

- Chis, hush! Prudence, Pepa, prudence! - Said Castro with fright, looking up to his mistress.

- Do you know that very well concealed? Have not seen you guide a single glance so far.

Castro, who for days was a little disgruntled by the coldness of its
owner, forced a smile then his brow furrowing.

Pepa does not go unnoticed by this gesture.

- Look what a face so clouded currently has Osorio. It inspires horror!

And the whole blame is you, rogue.

- Yo! Not so. Should be matters of twine that you get so yellow. Me said he is broke or close
to ruin.

Pepa shuddered visibly.

- What do you say? "Where have you know that?

- As I have said already several.

The widow turned sharply Jiménez Arbós not hide his excitement and
asked him altered low voice:

- Have you heard that Osorio is ruined?

-
Yes, I've heard.

Osorio has been playing down some time ago and strive to raise funds - said statesman gesture
by lifting the head with peacock petulant.

The tone in which he uttered these words warned satisfaction. For a minister, play down is
always a crime worthy of punishment.

- I do not know what will be involved in this settlement, but if much is lost, because the consolidated
whole has risen.

And if he persists in not immediately settle, so month may be two
integers great hike.

All the good humor of Pepa had suddenly disappeared. He lowered his head and dropped his fork no
mood to finish the piece of ham that had set.

The minister, noting their silence and sadness, he asked

- Do you happen to funds in his possession?

- By chance, no ... For my stupidity! In his hand most of my fortune.

- O devil, devil!

- I'm running realgar in the body I have eaten. I think I'm going to get bad - said the widow getting
really pale.

Arbós made efforts to reassure her. Might not be all true. In the ruins as improvised fortunes
always much overdone. Also, if there was a sacred commitment for Osorio, should be hers, a
lady who entrusted their money out of pure friendship.

While speaking in falsetto, their faces serious and manner determined
drew attention General Patiño, which, with admirable penetration,
said the Marquise de Ujo:

- Look for Pepa and Arbós.

There are summer cloud between them. How beautiful is the love to
in their fleeting storm!

Meanwhile, the counts of Cotorraso, Lola Madariaga, Clementina barons and spoke Rag of arsenic
as a medicine to fatten and make the skin smooth and shiny. Lola Madariaga was the first time I heard
and was full of joy, and immediately announced that it would to test
the miraculous virtue of the poison.

- My God, Lolita! - Said Fuentes
-.

If you, as it is now causing such havoc in male hearts, what will happen when you take four or
five months with a regimen of Arsenic! Mr. Ballesteros, you do not consent to take it: it is
too cruel to treat.

- Come on, buddy Fuentes - the pretty brunette said with a glance
insinuating Castro, why he had made up his mind to Clementina torn
out - I want you to kid?

- Tomaj hair!

... Tomaj What is your hair? - Rag asked the baroness to Osorio.

At this Baroness was undressing with the imagination Bonifacio, watching
from afar without blinking.

For days she had bought from other obscene photographs of a woman
naked swinging in a hammock.

It seemed to him that the Baroness was much like that Women, and
tried to figure out, through a careful external examination, if the
inside would keep the same image.

Finally finished the meal without spending not, of course, a good
time to talk to the theater Real, Gayarre and Tosti.

They had not digested well if they are missing. Coffee, as was Osorio custom house, was served
in the same room. Then the ladies with some men left the room.

Others were smoking, but they soon go to meet others. There was an unbearable heat.

Pepe Castro took the confusion of departure for asking Clementina:

- Why did not you go this morning?

Clementina stood still, looked at him with a smile protective.

-
"This morning?

... I do not know.

- Why did not you know? - Said his August brow furrowing the actual waiter.

- I do not know I do not know - and took a step away, still smiling with a slight tinge of mockery.

-
The future go?

- We'll see - said walking away.

Castro felt that smile like a punch in the chest. She bit her lower lip and murmured: - flirted, eh?
You pay me, beautiful!

In the lounge there and some people, including Ramon Maldonado and daughter Pepa Frias with her husband.
In another adjoining sitting room were prepared up to six tables
seating area.

Some sat course to play. Others wait for co-habit. Soon, in effect, both of halls populated.
D. reached Julián Calderón Mariana and Esperanza, Cobo León Ramírez Guzmán and three or four Pollastre,
General Pallarés the Marquis of Veneros and several other people,
including bankers dominated and businessmen.

One of the last to arrive was the Duke of Requena, who was receiving the same noisy and flattering that
everywhere. Came panting, smoking, spitting, with insolent security
his vast fortune had been acquired.

He spoke little, he laughed less, aired their views rudely and left
the circle of ladies worship around him. Her cheeks are bruised than
ever, bloodshot eyes, black lips. I was so ugly that Fuentes told
Pinedo Arbós Jiménez and pointing:

- There you have the devil getting
his witches in the coven on Saturdays.

He was invited to play sitting
as usual, but he refused. Had seen two bankers who wanted to fish
for her business Riosa mine. In addition to the court suited him Jiménez
Arbós few moments. He had already gotten mine come out in the auction
with all accessories forestry and belongings. In the Gazette had inserted
the advertisement. The company to buy was already formed. But there
was disagreement between the partners. Some wanted to purchase for
cash (Among them was Salabert) and others wanted to take ten times
that the Government attached. The difference in pricing from one to
another form, was enormous.

The Duke went to Biggs, the representative
of an English house that came with some very significant in the company
and headed the party hire purchase. She threw her familiarly arm on
the shoulder and led him into the hollow of a balcony, saying roughly:

-
"So you determined to ruin us?

And he began to discuss the matter
with a frankness that surprised the English. This responded to Duke
exits with arguments brutal polite and gentle, always smiling benevolently.
The Duke emphasized his toughness, which basically was very diplomatic.

-
I have no desire to throw my money. I have a hard time acquiring them,
you know? Where is Leo?

- Leon, here it is - he uttered a loud voice behind.

      Leon himself and walked to the middle
      of the room and began to parody, with expression and mimicry of strolling
players, a well-known zarzuela:

I am the one count of Agreda called
in battle that proved his worth countless.

- Hey, baby - Relief said
tugging at the skirts of his coat - I have have to adjust an account.

-
You too - he exclaimed with horror hit -.

Heavens! Where I will get that I submit accounts?

And got carried away, feigning shock at the corner for his beloved,
who asked quietly

- Say, babieca, why have not told me it was under
Part?

Do not you know that we policy a few days ago?

- Bah! Bah! - Cried loudly and away -.

As you may have a few glasses of sherry in the body, they will hear the kisses that you perceive,
from the street.

"Socorro was shortened biting her lip. He feared that Amparo had noticed anything. Y Indeed,
the mistress of Salabert had cast a suspicious glare which spoke, and frowned: "Go, go! A
good portion went to recaditos! As picasen a little was able to grab
by the hair to that Panfila and beat against the wall!

"

The Relief was a blonde lymphatic pearly complexion and light eyes, a little romance and a
lot susceptible. They said a commander's daughter and grabbed the right to despise their fellow born
from within the populace.

It was more educated than them because I read all the brochures that
came to hand: he took care not to say bad words, not phrases not often
used Flemish.

I had some older than the Amparo and Nati.

- At the table, the table - said Alcántara -. These German operas excite me hungry as a wolf.

Everyone
got up from his seat and approached the table while he rang the bell
Castro to alert the waiter.

The Count of Agreda stopped them with a gesture.

- Gentlemen, here are two princesses who have fought for diplomatic
issues that we do not incumbent.

Do you think that will give a kiss before we sit down?

- To give it: to give it - cried the three men and Nati, looking at the Relief and Protection.

This
was faced angry with Leon.

- Ja, ja! ... Girl, do not start now to release because it's going to hurt us dinner.

The Relief was made irrelevant by inspecting the table.

- That kiss - again said the choir.

- Listen, precious, do we have brought to laugh at us or give us for
dinner? - Said Amparo increasingly irritated.

Castro tried to calm her.

- There is no reason to be angry, Amparo. Leon, as I and everyone else, we would like that we sit down
to dinner we were good friends.

If there is some resentment must be remembered, especially if, as
hypothesized, it was not for anything serious.

- That kiss! - Cried
harder diners.

There was no choice. , And Alcantara Castro seized the Amparo, Ramon
and the count of Relief and were approaching almost by force, but
not both protests, especially Amparo, who defended vigorously.

After ended by laughing.
- But this is stupid! What fly has stung you?

And he came to decision
to Socorro, gave him a resounding kiss on the cheek.

- Besémonos,
daughter, otherwise I fear that these guys nice to give them a nervous
breakdown.

Relief paid the kiss with another more timid, reserved
and cautious manifest.

- Well, now let me warm up a bit, I'm numb
- said sitting beside the fireplace so close that, miraculously, it
burned.

It is roasted in front and behind, in such a way that, when
Raphael was to take the seat, burned.

- What an atrocity! Look, guys,
how he left the chair Amparo.

All laid hands on her and admired.

-
How will the woman's body! Let's see - said Castro toward her.

-
Hey, boy, stop! I'm not look at me and touches me .... Well, if you
blow the back - added generously. Thanks to this force was able to meet its huge capital.
By reaching this distinguished assembly view, I note with joy that all that it consists were
also fitted with a good part of this force or total native by heredity. Therefore, I congratulate
you with all my heart. The essential thing in this world we inhabit is suitable for birth control.
To avoid being crushed is necessary to crush. And I congratulate I repeat, to be among the chosen
of the gods, those whose providence has marked with the seal of happiness ....

- Hey, girl - Pepa Frias said bringing his mouth to ear Clementina - this seems a toast Mephistopheles.

Clementina
smiled faintly.

 

This hall was sending him to a punishment that Amparo had invented lately. When Duke the impatient
or bored, echábale of the room and had sometimes for hours in the lobby or the hallway waiting like
a dog. Now do not take so long to open the again. He was smiling and serene and hugged him
affectionately.

- Hey, Tone, would rather, disguised as Mary Stuart?

- Would admirably. I think you should take care followed the suit.

Amparo smiled maliciously

- It is responsible and it's done. Mira.

He opened the wardrobe quarter showed a mannequin dressed as Queen of Scots.

Finally came the day of the dance. The newspapers announced last sounding strongly the bass drum and
cymbals. The Duke of Requena had spent on the preparations more than one million pesetas, according
to the magazine told its readers. It also said oh unprecedented case! the flowers had been almost
all of Paris. And it was true. The Duke, born in Valencia, the most beautiful garden in Europe,
for his dancing did get the flowers of France. A capital of some thousands of dollars in flowers.
Camellias rolled on the ground serving carpet in the lobby and corridors. Hundreds of plants,
nearly all exotic, adorned it, the lobby and two ballrooms. Legions of servants with short pants
and colorful jackets waited strategically stationed at all points necessary. A couple cavalry
guards stood beside the garden gate in maintaining order cars, helped by some law enforcement
officials.

The wardrobe, built again was a luxurious stay where everything was prevented for great coats,
sereneros dance or outputs, as it is now named, would not suffer the least damage. The large
stairway was lit with electric light, the lobby and dining room with gas: the rooms dance with
candles. In the chat room and the game had some lamps with huge oil
and artistic displays. In addition to these fire burned clear and
bright the chimneys.

Clementina was receiving guests in the first
room near the lobby. Replacing its stepmother because it, because
of its weakness, could not stay long standing. The Duchess was in
the chat room surrounded by some friends, where he received to which
went to greet her. When walking on foot represented truly the wise one teacher who is leaving
drip the stream of his science, the other a fiery newcomer eager to learn and penetrate it covers
his eyes.

- Where are we going? - Casually asked Castro to reach all four streets.

- Man, we had not stayed married for Calderon's house? - Said shyly
and slightly disgruntled Ramon.

- Ah! yes, I forgot.

Councilman Young Greasy silence, admiring in his heart that singular
power to forget all that had his friend.

And followed by the Carrera de San Jerónimo hguardoa Puerta del Sol

- How are you with Esperanza? - Deigned to ask Castro, releasing a
puff of smoke and stopping to look at a showcase.

Ramon suddenly turned serious, almost, almost pale, and began to babble stumbled:

- So, boy .... As soon as the top and bottom .... Some days I find it very nice ... ie, friendly, no,
but less talkative. Others with a nose three yards: leaves when I enter, just answer the greeting,
as if he had offended .... I understand that some have had reason to be angry. Real soil in
the box go to Gamboa, and I think he has it in his head .... I like Rosaura For you see what
nonsense! Rosa! ... But at least one month does not go up to greet ... and the same, the same kid,
same! ... The other day I could catch one in the cabinet a few moments, and I have hastily
said he wanted to know what stayed. Because you see, not a thing to be doing Bear forever .... I
listened patiently .... I warn you that I was completely taken and hardly knew what she was
saying. When I finished he said he had no reason to be angry and ran into the room. After that
who had not understood that was the case fixed? Let's see, either in my case do not think we
were going to enter the field formality? ... Nothing, after two days I go there, try to talk separately
as Groom and gives me a snort that froze me .... And so I am.

I do not know if I want or if you leave loving me, and I have peace of mind to pursue my chores
and do nothing but think in that damn girl.

- I think - said Castro while carefully consider the window against
which were - that this girl I had taken the action.

Ramon looked surprised and respectful at the same time.

- How the
action - he ventured to ask.

- Yes, the action.

What is important in any fight, is to take the action to the contrary. If when he thinks you attack
you attack with determination, it is almost certain to arrive. If hesitate are lost.

As he uttered the last words he left to contemplate the window and
continued his majestic march the sidewalk.

Ramon did the same.

Had misunderstood the application that could have this simile started to fencing where appropriate,
but refrained from asking for explanations.

- So you think ...?

- I think you're too in love with this girl and
she knows it.

- But let's see, Joe, what reasons may have to reject
me? - Began to say sulphide Ramon and as if speaking to himself -.
What do you expect this girl? ... His father have money, but will
give away several brothers. Mariana is young, and when least thought
has begun to take over the world children. Besides, you know how Julian.
 If someone was inclined to Italy, where such another, often appearing this kind
of figures that look like English ladies cooked by the sun of Naples. In some Rafael boxes
are some that can give an idea of ​​our lady.

The predominant expression of his face at that moment was that of a proud disdain. This perhaps
contributed sunlight, which forced him to knit his brow smooth and delicate. There to confess,
at that sweet face had not. Below lines are correct and secure sensed a haughty spirit, without
tenderness. Those blue eyes were not the serene and limpid that complement adorable faces certain
virgin who can admire some time in our country and more often in northern Europe. Were made, no doubt,
to express a throng of vivid and violent passions. Maybe once touched his turn to burning
love and passionate, but never to humble and dumb who is resigned to die unknown. On his head a
pointed hat, red, with small, clear veil, red as well, which reached only the lips of this
veil reflexes contributed to give the face the strange hue that impressed those who crossed his
side. Rich wore fur, silk suit color of the hat, the other covered the skirt of tulle or Granada,
which was then the latest fashions.

Led, as we have said, the sleeve up to eye level, they perched on the ground as he has nothing
to do or go with what happens around them. Therefore, until you reach Calle Jorge Juan, did
not notice the presence of a young man from the sidewalk counter and walking hand in hand with
it looked even more admiration than curiosity. Al get here, without knowing why, raised his
head and his eyes met those of her admirer. A clearly perceptible movement of disgust followed such
a meeting. The front of the lady more severely wrinkled and stressed the haughty look in his
eyes. Pressed a little passage: and on arriving at the Conde de Aranda Street stopped and looked
back, to undoubtedly to see if he was a tram. The boy did not dare to do the same thing kept
going, not without directing live and greedy glances, which the gentle lady did not bother
to reciprocate. The car finally arrived, he sat on it revealing, in so doing, an exquisite boots
on with biotin morocco, and was to sit in the far corner. As if one looks safe and free from prying
eyes, his eyes were calmer slowly and nonchalantly rested the few people in the carriage had,
but did not disappear completely in the shadow of concern spread over his face, or the gesture
of disdain that her beauty was breathtaking.

The young fan had not waived out of sight. He continued, certainly, down the street de Recoletos
down, but when it saw the tram crossing grabbed him and climbed nicely without being noticed.
And making sure that the lady did not notice its presence, hiding behind another person who
was standing on the platform, began furtively to contemplate a enthusiasm that would make
anyone smile. Because it was larger the age difference was between them. Our boy looked about
eighteen years. His beardless face, fresh and like a pink lady, the blond hair, blue eyes,
soft and sad. Although American dress and fungus, revealed by her dress like a gentleman. Went
rigorous mourning, which considerably enhances the whiteness of her skin. For the magnetic influence
own eyes and that everyone could see, our lady did not take long to return theirs to the place
where the young passionate admiration vibrating beams. Turned to cloud his face again noted on
his lips a moment of impatience, as if the poor child injury with their worship. And even then clearly
began to show signs of be upset in the car, shaking his handsome head and pray to one side,
now another, with visible desire to get out. But not until arriving in San Jose, against whose
church was stopped by and down, past his pursuer with a look of fierce disdain capable of annihilation.

O
was very reckless or very little shame when it must have jumped into the street toward her
and began to follow by the Caballero de Gracia, walking down the
sidewalk opposite to better enjoy the figure that both fascinated him.

The lady was running slowly by looking back to those men crossed to his side. It was his pass
that of a goddess that down for a moment worthy of the throne of clouds to recreate and fascinate
fatal that look is imbibed and gave strong tripping.

- My mother Amparo, woman! - Cried aloud to his fellow cadet holding as if about to faint from
fright.

The beautiful faintest could not repress a smile, whose light could
better see the pilgrim beauty of it was endowed.

In open carriage down two gentlemen who sent it reverent greeting, to which she responded with an
imperceptible nod. Al reach the corner, on the same network of San Luis, stopped hesitantly, looked
everywhere and perceiving the blond young man again turned his back with obvious contempt and
began to fall more quickly by Montera Street, where his presence caused among pedestrians the
same emotion. Three or four times stopped in front of the windows but were warned more than curiosity
stood nervous state in which the tenacious pursuit The young man had set. Near the Puerta del Sol, no
doubt to outrun, resolvióse to enter Marabini in jewelry. Carelessly sat on a chair, lifted the
veil slightly hat and began to examine the jewelry distracting the clerk newcomers the store
was displaying. It was the worst he could do to escape the eyes of Teens love. For this, in comfort,
safe, is the barreled by glass window with an insistence that more and more enraged.

The truth is that this little shop beautifully decorated, where shining everywhere metals and
precious stones, was decent room for the beautiful, the best case suited to such a delicate
jewel. So he must have thought the young blond, judging by ecstasy
passionate eyes and marble immobility of the figure.

At last, the lady can not overcome this irritation produced it, alzose abruptly from his chair
and leave with Dependent dry phrase, special considerations kept him, left the trade and came
to the Puerta del Sol in a hurry. Here he paused, then took a few steps into a cab, as if to
enter it, but suddenly changed course, and steadily moved toward the main street, and not
always escorted away by the young. Al reach half of it soon entered into a sumptuous house looks,
not without throwing before fast and furious glance at his pursuer, who received and rarely
with complete serenity.

The porter, who was standing in the doorway gravely stroking his long whiskers, despojóse strongly
of the cap, he bowed and ran to open the glass door that led to the stairs, then pressing the button
of an electric bell. Uploader carpeted stairs slowly, and reach the
main door was open and servant in livery waiting at its foot.

The house belonged to Hon. D. Julian Calderon, head of the banking house of Calderon and Brothers
which occupied the entire principal of it, using different step of the other floors, I had rented.
This was the son of another Calderón Calderón well known in the trade
Madrid, wholesale dealer tanned hides, which they had made a good
fortune and that in the last years of his life had been enhanced,
focusing, at the same trade, the rotation and discount of bills.

He died, his son, Julian continued his work without detracting a point, driving his having married
his two sisters, one a physician, the other with an owner of La Mancha. At the time I was married
many years ago with the daughter of a merchant in Zaragoza, called D. Thomas Osorio, father
of the famous Madrid banker of the same name, who had his palace hotel with honors in the neighborhood
Salamanca, Calle Ramon de la Cruz. The beautiful lady who has just come into the house is This banker's
wife and sister-thus, Madame de Calderón.

The servant went ahead without waiting until it's announced, rose strongly as who is entitled
to it, went through three or four large rooms luxuriously appointed and she lifted the curtain
rich embroidered satin stripe, entered into an additional room reduced where several people
were gathered. In the chair next to the fireplace the lady was ensconced in the house, woman
of about forty, thick, regular features, black eyes, big and beautiful,
but light, white complexion, her hair a light brown too thin.

Beside her, in a small armchair, was another lady, who was contrast with her dark, slender,
slight, of extraordinary mobility, both in his little eyes piercing that any figure. It was
the Marquise de Alcudia, the first nobility of Spain. The three young people were sitting on
chairs in the row, were his daughters, very similar to it in the physical, but not imitated in
mobility, rigid and silent, eyes downcast, with modesty and restraint so affected, soon to be missed
to see the severe regime to the subject was alive and his mother nervous. With one occasionally
spoke aloud low the daughter of Mr. Calderon, a girl of fourteen or fifteen years, round-faced, eyes
small nose arremolachada and some seams on the neck, heralds of a temper scrofulous. This girl spent
even braided hair with a bow at the tip of the braid, the same as the last of Alcudia, with
whom he held timid and intermittent conversation. This, and his sisters, had two separate head
and whimsical hats, while Esperanza (which thus formed the master's daughter) walking round
with her head uncovered. The matinee blue dress, too short for his age. Messrs. Calderon only
had this daughter and a toddler. Faced with the woman, reclining in a chair alike Patiño was
General Earl of Morillejo. Found between the fifties and sixties, but retains in his eyes the
fire of youth, his gray hair is carefully combed the long whiskers to Victor Emmanuel, the knob
pointed, aquiline nose give it a nice and perky. It is the perfect type of senior aristocrat.
Beside him on another chair, Calderon was a man of about fifty, stout, round face and pink,
adorned by short gray whiskers, round eyes, lazy and dull. Near him an old lady who was the mother
of Calderon's wife, although much different from her in the face and Figure: slim to the point of having
no more than the skin on the bones, dark, sunken eyes and insightful, revealing in every feature
of his physiognomy intelligence and determination. Speaking Pinedo with it is the tenant of
the third quarter. Although no gray mustache, is easily guess that is stained, his face is that of
a man walking near the sixties: good-natured face, bulging eyes that move briskly, such as
those with a temperament observer. Dress with style and extraordinary neatness evident throughout
his person.

Seeing the door to our beautiful lady, the gathering was moved. All stand seat except Ms. Calderon,
whose face was drawn stopped a faint smile of pleasure.

- Ah, Clementine! What a miracle to see you here, woman!

The lady came forward smiling, and as he kissed the ladies and shook hands with the gentlemen, responded
to the loving rebuke of his sister.

- Go! Apply the band, daughter, you do not look at my house rather than semesters.

- I have children, my dear.

- Look what you apologize! I also I have.

- In Chamartín.

- Well, having children does not deprive you of going to Real and
the promenade.

Clementina sat between his sister and the Marquise de Alcudia.

Other reoccupied their seats.

- Oh, my child - said they respond to the last sentence .-- If I only knew how catarrazo caught
the other night at the theater!

Ramon Maldonado's fool is the one that has been fault.

With so much greeting and ceremony, not just close the door of the
box.

That Cast air penetrated my bones.

- Has been fortunate that air
- said with a smile Patiño gallant General.

They smiled less interested, he looked wide-eyed surprise.

- What
fortune?

It was necessary for the general to give him the courtesy scarf, only then paid for it with
a smile.

- Is not it true that it has been very well Gayarre? - Said Clementina.

-
Wonderful! as always - his sister said.

- I find lacking in ways
- said the general.

- Oh, no, general!

... Allow me ....

And he insisted a discussion about whether the famous tenor had or
had not performance art, if was or was not elegant in dress.

The ladies did their part. Gentlemen you were effects.

The tenor went to the soprano.

- It's all a beautiful woman - said the general security and the conviction
of an accent intelligent.

- Oh! - Calderón said.

- Well, I find
the Tosti pretty ordinary, does not it seem to you, Clementine?

This confirmed the species.

- Do not say that, Marquise, where a
woman is tall and thick does not indicate that it is ordinary if you
have pride in the size and distinction in the ways - was quick to
say the general, while throwing a peek at Ms. Calderon.

- Neither
do I argue that, generally, do not take you the wrong end of the sheets
- said the Marchioness with extraordinary vividness, then attacking
verve and a bit different and good grace irritated detail of the treble.

Generalizóse

the dispute, and the opposite happened in the previous. The knights were kind to the singer while
the ladies you were hostile. Pinedo summed up, saying grave and solemn in tone, which was noticeable,
however, the sarcasm:

- In women, good manners are essential in humans.

Clementina and the general exchanged a smile and a meaningful glance. The Marquise looked the dapper
gentleman with hardness and then turned quickly to his daughters,
who were with downcast eyes, the same rigid attitude and always silent.

Pinedo remained grave and indifferent, as if he had said the most natural thing in the world.

-
For me, friend Pinedo, I believe men should also have good ways -
said the lady Panfila Calderón.

In saying that there was a faint breath, like suppressed laughter
with work.

It was the last girl the Marquise de Alcudia, whom his mother looked
at pulverizing.

The appearance of the girl returned instantly to its original shy and modest expression.

- An opinion ...-- Pinedo said, bowing respectfully.

This Pinedo, who occupied one third of the rooms in the same house owned by Calderon played a
very important job in the public. Swings policy failed to wrest from him. I had friends in
all parties, but had been never determined by anyone. It was the life of the man of the world
entered the aristocratic houses of the court, was familiar to most of the characters in the
banking and politics was a former member of the Savage Club, where the plate every night joke young
aristocrats who met there, who treated him all too confident that rarely degenerated into rudeness.
He was affable, intelligent, fluent and skilled in treatment of men, tolerant of all sorts of
vanity for the same contempt he felt to them. However, in the guise of polite and inoffensive
man, kept in the background of his soul a satirical background helped him to get back nicely, with
some incisive phrase and timely, the excesses of his friends the premature Club. These he
professed a mixture of affection, contempt and fear. No one knew their origin, although it was
for sure who was born in humble birth. Some made him the son of a butcher of Seville and others
will Rogue declared the beach in Malaga in their youth. What was known as positive was that many
years ago had appeared in Madrid and Andalusia title parasite, which, having dissipated his fortune,
skipped the brains. In the company of this, our Pinedo acquired a large number of useful relations,
came to know and treat all people making viso, among which was popular. He had good touch
of dodge when he stumbled an inflated and arrogant man, leaving step. Not excite the jealousy of anyone
and this is sure way not to be hated. At the same time his wit, his sly character, he sought
always keep within certain limits, often awoke in the gatherings
of joy; enough to give them some meaning, that would not otherwise
have enjoyed.

No other family had a daughter of eighteen years called Pilar. His wife, whom nobody knew, had
died many years ago. His salary was forty thousand pieces, and he lived father and daughter financially,
in the third that Calderon left for twenty dollars a month. Pinedo expenditures were over represented.
As a society superior frequented which, given its position, it should have had to be smartly
dressed and to assist theaters. Realizing the absolute need to continue cultivating their relationships,
which were the pillars on which his employment was based, imposed such extravagance without hesitation,
saving it elsewhere in the household budget. He lived thus in permanent state of balance. Employment
allowed to frequent the society of arrogant, while they helped him unconsciously to keep their
jobs. No minister would dare to stop at a Loss man she was going to stumble at all gatherings and
balls of the court. Pinedo was then the honor to speak some time with real people, some of
your phrases ran through the classrooms and perhaps more celebrated than it deserved, as well
as in the classroom often have little wit, throwing quite well with rifle and pistol and was
intelligent and library had a hearty respect the culinary arts. The highest figures were feeling
flattered when they heard that Pinedo praised his cook.

- When you've been in school, Pacita? - Quietly asked Hope to less
than the Marquise de Alcudia.

- Then on Friday, do not you know that
Mom takes us every Friday to confess?

And you?

- I do at least three weeks since I've been.

Mom and I confess every month.

- What content with that Ortega's father?

- I do not say anything
.... I do not know if my mom ....

- Do not say, no: you know very
well where you put your foot.

Have you seen the Mariani?

- Yes, a few days ago, in the Retiro.

- Do not you know that Mary
has taken a boyfriend?

- Do not tell me anything.

- Yes, cavalry
... Arcos brigadier's son .... A more gawky guy! Finally, the operation time was exerting its sedative. Fifteen days was good,
though under the weight of a large folding his relatives fought in vain and friends to ease.

Propusiéronle uncles stay and live with them since he was too young to be in front of a house,
and above all to save and allow your sister. The time had twenty-three, and she just over eighteen.
Neither accepted the arrangement. Wanted live alone and together.
 

Just at that moment they approached a group of fluttering Pollastre about the millions of Calderon
warmly congratulating the girl. Among them was Cobo Ramirez. All dances were quick to ask, pointing
to the neat little book of Hope the initial of his illustrious name. Ramon Maldonado, who was a few
yards away, did not approach the group, true to the slogan of lavishing not, to become desirable,
that for over a year he had given his friend and mentor Peter Castro. Until then low or not
he had used that tactic. Esperancita remained insensitive to their regulars and rendered gifts.
But he attributed it to a deficiency of the method, but his lack of courage to follow strictly
without fainting or contemplations. As the girl put the eye candy, he ran a kind word, goodbye,
strategic plan! Now casting glances absentmindedly answering grim group of Cotorraso Earl,
who had for some time he showed a predilection terrifying taking him by the lapel wherever he was
to explain his new method of distillation of oil. With its luxurious coat and white wig Knight
of the last century, the young councilman had not won in dignity. He looked like a footman.

There
was great excitement, suddenly, in the classrooms. Came the real people. The crowd are crowded
near the door. The Duke, Duchess, Clementina and fell Osorio the
steps of the garden to receive them.

The orchestra played the Royal March. The rulers became slowly, smiling, for among the serried
ranks of the guests, stopping when see someone you know to give him a kind word.
 The latter was arrogantly refused to believe that his glory was seductive with prejudicial,
but no matter: it is exactly like everything else here says.

Does this mean that Castro Pepe was ruined when present. In spite of this, still living with the same
comfort and equipment than before. Her work and cost him around. Borrowings by mortgaging
his brother trasconejada some farm sales and auctions, notes some usurers thrown on the inheritance
of a sick old uncle recognizing three times the amount received, jewelry that his sister gave him
unable to give her money exorbitant bills with the importer of cars and horses, with the tailor,
with the perfumer with Lhardy, with the custodian of the club, with everybody. It seemed impossible
that a man could live peacefully in such a state of traps and entanglements. However, our gallant
young man lived with the same admirable spirit and the same serenity of gladness of heart,
and others like him many of his friends and fellow members as we shall see, although not as ruined
as Perky.

- I prepared a surprise - said Clementina concluding in
his hat and grooming hair in the mirror.

The beautiful gummy sniffed the air like a dog that receives winds
and went to the lady.

- If it's nice, let's see.

- And if it is
unpleasant as well, groserazo.

Everything that comes from me should tell you the atmosphere.

-
Agreed, agreed.

Let's see - barely conceals his desire said.

- Well, get me one sleeve.

Castro was quick to obey the command.

Clementina, where it had sat in his hands with affected calm on the
couch and waving in the air then exclaimed:

- You'll never guess
what is in this sleeve?

- His eyes shone with joy and pride at the
same time.

The sparkled Castro longing. Her cheeks were stained and altered voice answered between doubting
and affirming:

- Fifteen thousand pesetas.

Joyful and triumphant expression of the lady's face was changed instantly into another cholera
and defiance.

- Remove!, Off there, pig! "- Exclaimed angrily giving a blow in the
face with the luxurious cuff -.

Do not think only of money .... You have no hint of delicacy.

- I thought! ...

There was also a change of decoration in the face of Castro. He became more sad that night.

-
In the twine, yes, and just tell you .... No, sir, here is not anything like that. Only there
is a tie Alfileritos me silly me!

I bought the pass, staying Marabini, as proof that I have you ever
thought.

- And I thank you in the soul, pigeon - said the young man
making a supreme effort on itself to overcome the sudden gloom and
resulting him a forced smile and bitter -. Why did you shoot that?
... Give me that .... Well known to have very bad idea made me.

Clementina
refused to release the memory. The young man humbly insisted. 

The young man took the match and handed it on, with the same silence. He returned head and
continued staring at the horizon, fire hit the mound Clementina card and saw burn slowly. It
took some time to burn: required arrange with their gloved hands the pile for the fire is not
quenched. From time to when looked at from concerned and compassionate to her lover, who stood
motionless and attentive as a sailor who provides the look of the sea.

When there were more than the black ashes, Clementina, who was crouched, rose. He stood a moment
undecided, not daring to disturb the profound diversion from Raymond. Finally, her beautiful face
through a burst of tenderness, after a quick look at all sides approached him, put his arm around
her and said with gentle emphasis:

- And now we are alone for the last time anyone sees us, do we not
say goodbye in a way more effusive?

- How you want us to say goodbye?
- He said looking at her and making a supreme effort to smile.

-
So! - Said the lady sharply.

And while she threw her arms around his neck and covered his face
strong and passionate kisses.

Rayford shook. He left for a few moments like kissing a dead body. Finally, doblándosele legs, said in
a tone ripper:

- Oh, Clementine, you're killing me!

And fell down senseless. The shock of it was great. There was nobody to help. There was not
even water. Young raised his head, placed it on his lap, gave air his hat and made him a little
squirt with a perfume smell that brought them. After a few minutes opened Eyes: not soon stand.
I was ashamed of his weakness.

Clementina showed with him loving and compassionate. When he saw
that he was already calm and ready to go, grabbed his arm and said:

-
Come on. 

He also sat next to the beloved of his heroic heart, and spoke for a few hours, with sweet repose,
of British ponies and large battles that the time is fought within the municipal corporation
in which he took part as active. Until, that conversation lulled by gentle, insinuating, the naive
girl was sleeping sweetly with his head on the pillow.

Ramon Maldonado watched. Watched and meditated on their luck happy. Divine dawn, climbing the
heights of the distant mountains, crossing the plains with swift flight, with its pink rose fingers
the curtains of the carriage and spreading a thin and unobtrusive clarity, without which he would
stopped thinking of her happiness.

Esperanza opened his eyes and gave him a tender smile of love, which vibrated until last strings
of his poetic soul.

The lark sang at that moment.

Then, Ramon, the god was increasingly separating more than men. Drunk with love and happiness
too, sang in her ear, her voice shaking, a portion of incoherent sentences, daughters of divine
madness. The girl closed her eyes better hear harmonious music that ....

When he had exhausted the superlatives in the dictionary to paint his love, the sublime Councillor
wanted to finish his work of seduction to the beautiful rolling out all the great things that
could provide, as Satan did with Jesus. "He was an only child, her parents were one hundred
and ten thousand real income: in the next elections for deputies
to be submitted candidate Cortes by Navalperal, where he had family
and finances, and would leave the government with little to help him:
as the Conservative Party was in need of young people claim, he believed
that in the short term could be secretary, and who knows? perhaps
later, in a combination, could obtain even overseas portfolio ...."

The girl always listened with closed eyes.

Ramon increasingly inflamed, at the end this brilliant list leaned
his beloved and asked softly and moved:

- Do you love me, sweetheart,
I want?

The girl did not answer.

- Do you love me?

Do you want? - He inquired.

Esperanza, without opening his eyes, finally responded dryly:

- No.

XIV

# A to be. #

Some weeks later, Ms Carmen disease is extremely aggravated. Could no longer doctors doubt that
the end was very close. The prostration was absolute. He had no in the face than skin and
big sad eyes and volunteers who were set on strange intensity as they approach it, what if I tried
to read on the faces of the terrible secret of his death. For this reason stuck their heads thousand
sordid passions in the soul should have it the most troubled. Salabert thought with disgust
of the inheritance that reversed her daughter. Made new efforts to overturn his wife's will,
but to no avail. For the first time in her life Ms Carmen showed signs of great strength of character.
Although unable for revenge was such a hard time in her desire to end the existence of an act
of justice.

A life of complete submission, without offering the slightest obstacle to the will of her
husband, their economic plans or his illicit passions, well deserved when death claim their freedom
to satisfy the impulses of the heart. Osorio watched quietly, hidden anxiety, the progress
of the disease, the outcome drag Once I get to the end of their troubles. Ms Carmen would shed
his fleshly envelope and that of their creditors. The same Clementina, favorite object of the angelic
tenderness lady, could not enjoy the prospect of so many millions and would fall into their hands.
Tried to suppress their desires, impatience off, but despite a devil tempting him made his heart jump
for joy every time the thought came to her brain.

Infernal cunning, Salabert was possible to introduce distrust in the mind of his wife. Sometimes
a sly way, sometimes cynical and brutal, poured into his soul the
poison of suspicion. Clementina Osorio and water waiting for their
death as May. What comforts would be where should pay all their traps!
And to another: to live, to enjoy the money the unhappy lady! This
remained silent, outraged at the evil insinuations of her husband.
But in his soul sad and weakened by the disease, the tip of that steely
arrow writhed causing sharp pains that sought to hide. Whenever Clementina
came to visit, and ultimately made him twice a day, her stepmother's
eyes were fixed upon her with dumb question, trying to read on their
own the ideas that passed through the brain. This eager attention
embarrassed Osorio's wife, made him feel a disturbance that though
slight, sometimes leaving no visible. 

II

# More characters.

#

A high priest, his face pale and round, still young, with blue eyes and myopic eyes vague, appeared
at the door. All rose. The Marquise de Alcudia proceeded rapidly and to kiss her hand. Behind
her followed suit her daughters, Mariana and the other ladies of
the party.

- Good evening, father -.

Good eyes see you, father -. Sit here, father .-- No, not there, Father, I come near the fire.

The
male was shaking hands with affectionate respect.

The priest's voice, asking or respond in the greetings was soft, almost falsetto, as if in the next
room had a patient, his smile was sad, protective, insinuating.
 Part of the latter was what occupied the offices,
which were not very significant. A Salabert was sufficient for the conduct of their business with
a dozen skilled employees. The luxury displayed in the house was amazing: the furniture worth more
than a few million. Clashed with greed, everyone attributed to its owner. This and other similar
contradictions will be resolved as we go penetrating in character, one of the most curious and
most worthy of setting the reader's attention. The kitchens were in basements, which were spacious
and well arranged. The dining room, which occupied the rear the ground floor, was to add an
exceptionally large greenhouse where they grew large number of shrubs and exotic flowers and where
the water was flowing profusely estanquecillos and very pleasing to see waterfalls, all imitating, if possible,
to nature. The blocks were in separate building at the end of the garden, as well as some servants'
room, not everyone.

The Duke, lounging on the only chair that was in the office Llera, while it kept standing in
front of him spinning in the hand of a big scissors cut paper, walked three or four times from one
angle to another of her mouth and wet black cigar unanswered the
last words of his secretary.

At last he grunted more than he said

- Hum! The minister is becoming more stubborn.

- Who cares! Do not you know the secret of giving him? ... Liverpool telegraph you and fifteen days
before the bottle of quicksilver down from sixty to forty dollars.

The Duke of Requena had formed on the initiative and advice Llera, for four years, quicksilver
company or union in order to capture all the mercury they release it on the market. As a result,
this product had risen dramatically. The company was to a huge deposit in Liverpool. Llera plan
was released in a given time producing a huge low frightened the government. This, held at the
same time payment of the loan of one hundred million pesetas that the Government had made ten
years ago to a foreign company, would push him think about selling
mine rivers.

If on the other hand helped the company will sacrifice a few million, subsidizing newspapers
and characters could be assured success. This plan, consisting of
Llera and matured by the Duke, came unfolding regularly and was coming
to an end.

- There shall see - said the wealthy banker and was some
thoughtful moments -. When go to auction - said after - it will be
necessary to form another company. Their honeymoon was as sticky as short. The clash between those two characters,
the same stubbornness and ferocity, was unavoidable. Came early and came with a small number
of despondency that obliterated in an instant Heart the fleeting glimpses of young love that
had inspired her husband. It lasted longer passion. The knowledge that each other had made
them cautious, avoiding a crash formidable that was to be fatal. But came to an end.
 

Reassembled on the train. They continued walking through endless plains, yellowish but none of them happen
straighten the magnificent landscape British twins. And reach rivers just before dark.
