Since I am to speak to you of some of the important lessons of my life, it may be in order
to give you some account of my ancestry.  It is something to one’s credit to have had an ancestry
that one need not be ashamed of. One of the poets said, while talking to a select party of
aristocracy:

    Depend upon it, my snobbish friend,
    Your family line you can’t ascend
    Without good reason to apprehend
    You’ll find it waxed at the farther end
    With some plebeian vocation;
    Or, what is worse, your family line
    May end in a loop of stronger twine
    That plagued some worthy relation.

But I am proud to say, ladies and gentlemen, that no loop of stronger twine that he referred
to ever plagued any relation of mine.  No member of our family or ancestry was ever punished
for any crime or infringement of the law.  My father was a direct descendant from the Lees
on one side and the Youngers on the other.  The Lees came from Scotland tracing their line
back to Bruce.  The Youngers were from the city of Strasburg on the Rhine, descending from
the ruling family of Strasburg when that was a free city.  Richard Fristoe, mother’s father,
was one of three judges appointed by the governor of Missouri to organize Jackson county, and
was then elected one of the first members of the legislature.  Jackson county was so named
in honor of his old general, Andrew Jackson, with whom he served at the battle of New Orleans.

My father and mother were married at Independence, the county seat of Jackson county, and there
they spent many happy years, and there my own happy childhood days were spent.  There were
fourteen children of us; I was the seventh.  There were seven younger than myself.  How often
in the dark days of the journey over the sea of life have I called up the happy surroundings
of my early days when I had a noble father and dear mother to appeal to in faith for counsel.
There had never been a death in the family up to 1860, except among our plantation negroes.
Mine was a happy childhood.

I do not desire to pose as an instructor for other people, yet one man’s experience may be
of value to another, and it may not be presumptuous for me to tell some of the results of experience,
a teacher whose lessons are severe, but, at least, worthy of consideration.  I might say, perhaps,
with Shakespeare, “I have bought golden opinions from all sorts of people.”

The subject of my discourse tonight is the index of what is to follow.

I believe that no living man can speak upon his theme with more familiarity.  I have lived
the gentleman, the soldier, the out-law, and the convict, living the best twenty-five years
of my life in a felon’s cell.  I have no desire to pose as a martyr, for men who sin must suffer,
but I will punctuate my remarks with bold statements, for the eagle should not be afraid of
the storm.  It is said that there are but three ways by which we arrive at knowledge in this
world; by instruction, by observation, and by experience.  We must learn our lessons in life
by some one or all of these methods.  Those of us who do not, or will not, learn by instruction
or by observation are necessarily limited to the fruits of experience.  The boy who is told
by his mother that fire burns and who has seen his brother badly burned, surely does not need
to have the fact still more clearly impressed upon his mind by experience.  Yet in the majority
of cases, it takes experience to satisfy him.  By a kind of necessity which I cannot at this
point stop to explain, I have had to learn some very impressive lessons of my life by the stern
teacher, experience.  Some people express a desire to live life over again, under the impression
that they could make a better success of it on a second trip; such people are scarcely logical—however
sincere they may be in a wish of this kind.  They seem to forget that by the unfailing law
of cause and effect, were they to go back on the trail to the point from which they started
and try it over again, under the same circumstances they would land about where they are now.
The same causes would produce the same effect.

I confess that I have no inexpressible yearnings to try my life over again, even if it were
possible to do so.  I have followed the trail of my life for something over fifty years.  It
has led me into varied and strange experiences.

The last twenty-six years, by a train of circumstances I was not able to control, brought me
to the present place and hour.  Perhaps it may be proper for me to say, with St. Peter, on
the mount of transfiguration, it is good to be here.

The man who chooses the career of outlawry is either a natural fool or an innocent madman.
The term outlaw has a varied meaning.  A man may be an outlaw, and yet a patriot.  There is
the outlaw with a heart of velvet and a hand of steel; there is the outlaw who never molested
the sacred sanctity of any man’s home; there is the outlaw who never dethroned a woman’s honor,
or assailed her heritage; and there is the outlaw who has never robbed the honest poor.  Have
you heard of the outlaw who, in the far-off Western land, where the sun dips to the horizon
in infinite beauty, was the adopted son of the Kootenai Indians?  It was one of the saddest
scenes in all the annals of human tragedy.  It was during one of those fierce conflicts which
characterized earlier frontier days.

The white outlaw had influenced the red man to send a message of peace to the whites, and for
this important mission the little son of the Kootenai chief was selected.  The young fawn mounted
his horse, but before the passport of peace was delivered the brave little courier was shot
to pieces by a cavalcade of armed men who slew him before questioning his mission.  The little
boy was being stripped of the adornments peculiar to Indians when the outlaw rode upon the scene.

“Take your hands off him, or by the God, I’ll cut them off,” he shouted. “You have killed a
lone child—the messenger of peace—peace which I risked my life to secure for the white men
who outlawed me.”

Taking the dead body tenderly in his arms, he rode back to face the fury of a wronged people.
He understood the penalty but went to offer himself as a ransom, and was shot to death.  This,
however, is not the class of outlaws I would discuss, for very often force of circumstances
makes outlaws of men, but I would speak of the criminal outlaw whom I would spare not nor excuse.

My friends, civilization may be a thin veneer, and the world today may be slimy with hypocrisy,
but no man is justified in killing lions to feed dogs.

Outlawry is often a fit companion for treason and anarchy, for which the lowest seats of hell
should be reserved.  The outlaw, like the commercial freebooter, is often a deformity on the
face of nature that darkens the light of God’s day.

I need not explain my career as an outlaw, a career that has been gorgeously colored with fiction.
To me the word outlaw is a living coal of fire.  The past is a tragedy—a tragedy wherein danger
lurks in every trail.  I may be pardoned for hurrying over a few wild, relentless years that
led up to a career of outlawry—a memory that cuts like the sword blades of a squadron of cavalry.
The outlaw is like a big black bird, from which every passerby feels licensed to pluck a handful
of feathers.

My young friend, if you are endowed with physical strength, valor, and a steady hand, let me
warn you to use them well, for the God who gave them is the final victor.

Think of a man born of splendid parents, good surroundings, the best of advantages, a fair
intellectuality, with the possibility of being president of the United States, and with courage
of a field general. Think of him lying stagnant in a prison cell.  This does not apply alone
to the highway outlaw, but to those outlaws who are sometimes called by the softer name “financier.”
Not long ago I heard a man speak of a certain banker, and I was reminded that prisons do not
contain all the bad men.  He said: “Every dog that dies has some friend to shed a tear, but
when that man dies there will be universal rejoicing.”

I am not exactly a lead man, but it may surprise you to know that I have been shot between
twenty and thirty times and am now carrying over a dozen bullets which have never been extracted.
How proud I should have been had I been scarred battling for the honor and glory of my country.
Those wounds I received while wearing the gray, I’ve ever been proud of, and my regret is that
I did not receive the rest of them during the war with Spain, for the freedom of Cuba and the
honor and glory of this great and glorious republic.  But, alas, they were not, and it is a
memory embalmed that nails a man to the cross.

I was in prison when the war with Cuba was inaugurated, a war that will never pass from memory
while hearts beat responsive to the glory of battle in the cause of humanity.  How men turned
from the path of peace, and seizing the sword, followed the flag!  As the blue ranks of American
soldiery scaled the heights of heroism, and the smoke rose from the hot altars of the battle
gods and freedom’s wrongs avenged, so the memory of Cuba’s independence will go down in history,
glorious as our own revolution—’76 and ’98—twin jewels set in the crown of sister centuries.
Spain and the world have learned that beneath the folds of our nation’s flag there lurks a
power as irresistible as the wrath of God.

Sleep on, side by side in the dim vaults of eternity, Manila Bay and Bunker Hill, Lexington
and Santiago, Ticonderoga and San Juan, glorious rounds in Columbia’s ladder of fame, growing
colossal as the ages roll. Yes, I was in prison than, and let me tell you, dear friends, I
do not hesitate to say that God permits few men to suffer as I did, when I awoke to the full
realization that I was wearing the stripes instead of a uniform of my country.

Remember, friends, I do not uphold war for commercial pillage.  War is a terrible thing, and
leads men sometimes out of the common avenues of life. Without reference to myself, men of
this land, let me tell you emphatically, dispassionately, and absolutely that war makes savages
of men, and dethrones them from reason.  It is too often sugarcoated with the word “patriotism”
to make it bearable and men call it “National honor.”

Come with me to the prison, where for a quarter of a century I have occupied a lonely cell.
When the door swings in on you there, the world does not hear your muffled wail.  There is
little to inspire mirth in prison. For a man who has lived close to the heart of nature, in
the forest, in the saddle, to imprison him is like caging a wild bird.  And yet imprisonment
has brought out the excellencies of many men.  I have learned many things in the lonely hours
there.  I have learned that hope is a divinity; I have learned that a surplus of determination
conquers every weakness; I have learned that you cannot mate a white dove to a blackbird; I
have learned that vengeance is for God and not for man; I have learned that there are some
things better than a picture on a church window; I have learned that the American people, and
especially the good people of Minnesota, do not strip a fallen foe; I have learned that whoever
says “there is no God” is a fool; I have learned that politics is often mere traffic, and statesmanship
trickery; I have learned that the honor of the republic is put upon the plains and battled
for; I have learned that the English language is too often used to deceive the commonwealth
of labor; I have learned that the man who prides himself on getting on the wrong side of every
public issue is as pernicious an enemy to the country as the man who openly fires upon the
flag; and I have seen mute sufferings of men in prison which no human pen can portray.

And I have seen men die there.  During my twenty-five years of imprisonment, I have spent a
large portion of the time in the hospital, nursing the sick and soothing the dying.  Oh! the
sadness, the despair, the volcano of human woe that lurks in such an hour.  One, a soldier
from the North, I met in battle when I wore the gray.  In ’63 I had led him to safety beyond
the Confederate lines in Missouri, and in ’97 he died in my arms in the Minnesota prison, a
few moments before a full pardon had arrived from the president.

The details of this remarkable coincidence were pathetic in the extreme, equalled only by the
death of my young brother Bob.

And yet, my dear friends, prisons and prison discipline, which sometimes destroy the reason,
and perpetuate a stigma upon those who survive them,—these, I say, are the safeguards of the
nation.

A man has plenty of time to think in prison, and I might add that it is an ideal place for
a man to study law, religion, and Shakespeare, not forgetting the president’s messages.  However,
I would advise you not to try to get into prison just to find an ideal place for these particular
studies.  I find, after careful study, that law is simply an interpretation of the Ten Commandments,
nothing more, nothing less.  All law is founded upon Scripture, and Scripture, in form of religion
or law, rules the universe.

The infidel who ridicules religion is forced to respect the law, which in reality is religion
itself.

It is not sufficient alone to make good and just laws, but our people must be educated, or
should be, from the cradle up, to respect the law.  This is one great lesson to be impressed
upon the American people.  Let the world know that we are a law-loving nation, for our law
is our life.

Experience has taught me that there is no true liberty apart from law. Law is a boundary line,
a wall of protection, circumscribing the field in which liberty may have her freest exercise.
Beyond the boundary line, freedom must surrender her rights, and change her name to “penalty
for transgression.”  The law is no enemy, but the friend of liberty.  The world and the planets
move by law.  Disregarding the law by which they move, they would become wanderers in the bleak
darkness forever.

The human mind in its normal condition moves and works by law.  When self-will, blinded by
passion or lust, enters her realm, and breaks her protecting laws, mind then loses her sweet
liberty of action, and becomes a transgressor.  Chaos usurps the throne of liberty, and mind
becomes at enmity with law.  How many, many times the words of the poet have sung to my soul
during the past twenty-six years:

    Eternal spirit of the chainless mind,
    Brightest in dungeon’s liberty thou art,
    For there thy habitation is the heart,
    The heart, which love of thee alone can bind.

Your locomotive with her following load of life and treasure is safe while she keeps the rails,
but, suppose that with an insane desire for a larger liberty, she left the rails and struck
out for herself a new pathway, ruin, chaos and death would strew her course.  And again let
me impress the fact upon you.  Law is one of humanity’s valiant friends.  It is the safeguard
of the highest personal and national liberties.  The French revolution furnishes a standing
illustration of society without law.

There are times when I think the American people are not patriotic enough. Some think patriotism
is necessary only in time of war, but I say to you it is more necessary in time of peace.

