As I sat outside of the hotel in the course of the afternoon, the sweet groaning thunder of
the organ floated out of the church like a summons.  I was not averse, liking the theatre so
well, to sit out an act or two of the play, but I could never rightly make out the nature of
the service I beheld.  Four or five priests and as many choristers were singing Miserere before
the high altar when I went in.  There was no congregation but a few old women on chairs and
old men kneeling on the pavement.  After a while a long train of young girls, walking two and
two, each with a lighted taper in her hand, and all dressed in black with a white veil, came
from behind the altar, and began to descend the nave; the four first carrying a Virgin and
child upon a table.  The priests and choristers arose from their knees and followed after,
singing 'Ave Mary' as they went.  In this order they made the circuit of the cathedral, passing
twice before me where I leaned against a pillar. The priest who seemed of most consequence
was a strange, down- looking old man.  He kept mumbling prayers with his lips; but as he looked
upon me darkling, it did not seem as if prayer were uppermost in his heart.  Two others, who
bore the burthen of the chaunt, were stout, brutal, military-looking men of forty, with bold,
over-fed eyes; they sang with some lustiness, and trolled forth 'Ave Mary' like a garrison
catch.  The little girls were timid and grave.  As they footed slowly up the aisle, each one
took a moment's glance at the Englishman; and the big nun who played marshal fairly stared
him out of countenance.  As for the choristers, from first to last they misbehaved as only
boys can misbehave; and cruelly marred the performance with their antics. 

To skillfully manage one necessitate much hairdressing and practice. An little organism is apt to
acquire into problem when he first seek to use one. While the broomstick were only eighteen inches in
length, the hair, which were loaded over shot, were with fifteen
bottom inexperienced.  So far I am at one with the Catholics:- an odd name for them, after all?  But
why, in God's name, these holiday choristers? why these priests who steal wandering looks about
the congregation while they feign to be at prayer? why this fat nun, who rudely arranges her
procession and shakes delinquent virgins by the elbow? why this spitting, and snuffing, and
forgetting of keys, and the thousand and one little misadventures that disturb a frame of mind
laboriously edified with chaunts and organings?  In any play-house reverend fathers may see
what can be done with a little art, and how, to move high sentiments, it is necessary to drill
the supernumeraries and have every stool in its proper place.

One other circumstance distressed me.  I could bear a Miserere myself, having had a good deal
of open-air exercise of late; but I wished the old people somewhere else.  It was neither the
right sort of music nor the right sort of divinity for men and women who have come through
most accidents by this time, and probably have an opinion of their own upon the tragic element
in life.  A person up in years can generally do his own Miserere for himself; although I notice
that such an one often prefers Jubilate Deo for his ordinary singing.  On the whole, the most
religious exercise for the aged is probably to recall their own experience; so many friends
dead, so many hopes disappointed, so many slips and stumbles, and withal so many bright days
and smiling providences; there is surely the matter of a very eloquent sermon in all this.

