"The instant that I made this inquiry, the captain gave me a keen, scrutinizing glance, and
then replied quickly,--'You are the brother Richard, I presume, of whose fate Miss Colman has
been so long uncertain?'

"I was taken too much by surprise to deny this fact, and Captain Hall continued,--'I had the
pleasure of becoming intimate in Dr. Colman's family, and my wife is devotedly attached to
your sweet sister. Through her I heard of your absence from home, and the grief it had given
to all who loved you. My belonging to the navy seemed to give me an interest in Miss Louisa's
eyes, and shortly before I sailed, she implored me to make inquiry of every ship which came
in my way, to discover, if possible, whether you were still among the living.'

"'I saw her in New York,' I remarked very coldly, as the scene in Broadway recurred to my mind;
'and though it was only for a moment, I perceived that she was in excellent spirits.'

"'Miss Louisa Colman can never be long unhappy,' he replied, sternly, 'while she leans on Heaven
and employs her whole time in doing good to others. Misery is their lot alone, who, to gratify
their own selfish whims, will trample on the happiness even of their dearest friends.'

"I felt the reproof contained in these words, but was too proud to show any emotion, even when
Captain Hall gave me a description of the scene at home, after my first departure became known.
In her grief, Louisa never forgot what was due to her father, and the cheerfulness which she
managed to maintain, notwithstanding her affliction, was all that supported his broken spirit.
Captain Hall then informed me that the old man's health was failing, and his last letters from
America had spoken of his increased weakness.

"This information was a dreadful blow, but it did not make me a better man. I tried to drown
sorrow in intoxication, and almost obliterated the remembrance of home, excepting when, in
the silence of night, it would come over me with irresistible power.

"When, after the lapse of three years, I once more approached my native land, I was much more
unworthy of being recognized by my friends than in returning from my previous voyage. Still
I proceeded directly to Charlottesville, and stopped at the old mansion, which I had not seen
for six long years. Alas! it was tenanted by strangers. A new tombstone was in the village
grave-yard, and on one side of it the name of my father, and the other bore my own. I asked
the sexton, who was just opening the church for an evening lecture, when Richard Colman died.
He replied very readily,--'O, about a year since. The old gentleman heard of the loss of the
vessel in which he sailed, and dropped away himself very suddenly.'

"I dared not inquire after Louisa, for I felt that she must look upon me as the destroyer of
our father. I hastened to Boston, and had determined on leaving the country for ever, when,
by accident, I had tidings of my sweet sister.

"After the melancholy information I obtained at Charlottesville, I had become a temperance
man, and took up my abode at the Sailor's Home. While there, a poor man, who had been ill for
months, and finally was obliged to have his leg amputated, spoke often of the goodness of a
young lady who had been often to see him, and whom he considered almost an angel. My curiosity
was excited, and I inquired of the excellent landlady the name of his friend, and was answered
by a warm tribute of praise to my own sister. I found that she was living in the family of
an aunt, and was devoted to benevolent objects of all kinds, but chiefly interested in schemes
for improving the temporal and spiritual condition of seamen. O, my poor Louisa! I knew, at
that moment, that love for her miserable brother's memory had dictated these exertions.

"Yet even then I did not seek to see her. 'I will leave her in peace,' I said to myself, 'for
she thinks I am dead, and it would be better for her if I really were.' Still, now that she
was alone, I could not bear to go so far from her again, and therefore made up my mind to enter
the fishing-service, that I might not long be absent from the city.

"You may remember the day that Captain Peck brought the Bibles on board, which had been left
for distribution by a lady of Boston. That lady was my sister, and I trust that the bread which
she thus cast upon the waters may indeed be returned to her before many days. I have read that
Bible daily, first, because it was her gift, and then because I found that it could give me
more peace than I had ever known before in my whole life. I shall go to my sister as soon as
we return, and I feel that she will not cast me away. I have so impaired my constitution, that
only a few years may remain to me; but whatever time I am spared shall be spent in repaying
as far as possible her unwearied affection.

"I have written this story with great reluctance, but my heart was almost breaking from so
long repressing its emotions. You are still boys. Try, then, while it is in your power, to
make those who love you happy, instead of laying up years of remorse and misery by selfish
indulgence of your own wishes, at the expense of their comfort and peace. Read now the book
which I have so lately learned to prize, and you will not have to look back upon the grave
of a father whom you never honored, and the counsels of a mother so long despised."

Poor Dick! Although he was so unkind, do you not feel very sorry for him, Bennie? I long so
to hear of his meeting with his sister, that I am really impatient to return. David did not
say much after reading this story, but I know he thinks a great deal about it. Yesterday he
said to me,--"Did you ever know, Pidgie, that girls were so tender-hearted? I think I must
often have hurt my little sister's feelings. She is a good little thing, and, though not quite
so pretty as that picture of Louisa Colman, yet a very fair-looking girl in her way."

I suppose this long letter will not go till I have a chance of writing another, all about myself;
but if it does, you ca imagine that I am spending my time pretty much as I have described before;
and believe me still your affectionate cousin,

PIDGIE.

LETTER VIII.

DAVID'S GLIMPSE OF NOBILITY.

FROM PIDGIE TO BENNIE.

Schooner Go-Ahead, August 16th, 1846.

You will see by the date, dear Bennie, that more than two weeks have passed since I last wrote
to you. In the mean time your poor cousin Pidgie has been lying on his straw-bed, sick with
a fever. It has been rather gloomy, to be sure; but now that I am better I can think of nothing
but the kindness of the sailors. It must be the salt water which keeps their hearts so good
and warm, for when any one is in real trouble they are as tender as little children. There
were two or three of them, whom I had not even thought worth mentioning, that spent every moment,
when they were not busy, in trying to amuse me. One had been to China, and you don't know how
many curious things he had seen there. He tells me that there is a Chinese museum in Boston,
and when I go back there I shall visit it, and I will try and remember every thing worthy of
notice to tell you on my return. How many pleasant evenings we shall spend together, in the
old school-room at Bellisle, with all the girls sitting by the long window, or near us out
on the porch!

I love the sea, and yet I long to take a stroll down the lawn before your door on the sweet
green grass. It is a blessed thing that travelling of any kind has so much to interest, or
else how would any one ever be able to make up his mind to leave home?

Since I have heard poor Dick's story I don't much wish to go to a public school; but Clarendon
says that's a silly prejudice, for it was the same disposition which made him unhappy at home,
that prevented the school from being of service to him. Yet I am afraid that I have not principle
enough to go among so many boys and do what is right. It is harder to be laughed at by those
of our own age than by older people. I have learned this lately, for I find that I don't feel
half as much ashamed when brother makes fun of what he calls my Methodistical habits, as I
do of David's ridicule. He has a way of putting aside all the reasons I give him for doing
right, as if they were so utterly unworthy of a boy's consideration, that I hardly dare to
try and argue with him.

A few nights since, one of the old sailors took out a pack of greasy cards, and, calling to
one of his companions, said that he would teach David and I to play a two-handed game, which
we should find very amusing. David was all eagerness to learn; but I told him that I had rather
not touch them.

"Nonsense, man!" said David; "I thought that you had too much sense to be afraid of little
pieces of pasteboard, with red and black spots on them. They are not going to poison you."

"But I have promised my mother that I would never play cards," I replied; "and, besides, it
would give me no pleasure, for I have heard of so much evil from the use of them that I cannot
see them without pain."

The old sailor, who had only wished to please me, was very angry at what I said, and began
swearing dreadfully. David tried to pacify him, and proposed that they should take a game together,
and he'd be bound that I would want to play before they had done with it.

"Would you wish," I asked, "that I should be tempted to break a promise to a widowed mother,
who never in my life denied me any thing that was reasonable?"

"No!" said David, after a moment's thought; "give me your hand! You are perfectly right, and
I honor you for it."

Before he had time to say any more, Brown Tom came in to look for a gun, which had been brought
on board; for the water was covered with ducks, and he was anxious to have a shot at them.
I should like to try my hand in the same way; for when fish and birds are used for food, my
conscience don't hurt me about killing them. That's the reason that I like mackerel-fishing,
though I have no fondness for mackerels themselves, for they are cannibals. We use a piece
of one for bait for the rest, and don't have lines more than three or four yards long. This
is a very different thing from catching cod, where they pull them up through many fathoms of
water. Clary says that next year he means to go out to the Banks for cod, if he can get some
of his friends to make up a party for the purpose. You never saw any one so changed as he is.

Last week there came up a storm, when we were near the land, and they hauled into port. Clarendon
walked off on shore in his fishing-clothes, without appearing in the least ashamed of them,
and went to make a call on a gentleman in the place, whom he had seen in Virginia a year or
two since. I wish I had been well enough to have gone with him, for he saw a great many things
which were new to him, and he says that British America is as different from the United States
as if it were not a part of the same continent. None of the crew minded walking about on shore
in the rain, and while they were gone I was alone, excepting Dick, and he was on deck writing
a letter to his sister, to send across the country and prepare her for his return; for you
know she thinks that he is dead.

When David came back, though, I had fun enough; for he gave me the most amusing description
of every thing he had seen.

