The demands of this poor public are not reasonable, but they are quite simple. It dreads disease
and desires to be protected against it. But it is poor and wants to be protected cheaply. Scientific
measures are too hard to understand, too costly, too clearly tending towards a rise in the
rates and more public interference with the insanitary, because insufficiently financed, private
house. What the public wants, therefore, is a cheap magic charm to prevent, and a cheap pill
or potion to cure, all disease. It forces all such charms on the doctors.

THE VACCINATION CRAZE

Thus it was really the public and not the medical profession that took up vaccination with
irresistible faith, sweeping the invention out of Jenner's hand and establishing it in a form
which he himself repudiated. Jenner was not a man of science; but he was not a fool; and when
he found that people who had suffered from cowpox either by contagion in the milking shed or
by vaccination, were not, as he had supposed, immune from smallpox, he ascribed the cases of
immunity which had formerly misled him to a disease of the horse, which, perhaps because we
do not drink its milk and eat its flesh, is kept at a greater distance in our imagination than
our foster mother the cow. At all events, the public, which had been boundlessly credulous
about the cow, would not have the horse on any terms; and to this day the law which prescribes
Jennerian vaccination is carried out with an anti-Jennerian inoculation because the public
would have it so in spite of Jenner. All the grossest lies and superstitions which have disgraced
the vaccination craze were taught to the doctors by the public. It was not the doctors who
first began to declare that all our old men remember the time when almost every face they saw
in the street was horribly pitted with smallpox, and that all this disfigurement has vanished
since the introduction of vaccination. Jenner himself alluded to this imaginary phenomenon
before the introduction of vaccination, and attributed it to the older practice of smallpox
inoculation, by which Voltaire, Catherine II. and Lady Mary Wortley Montagu so confidently
expected to see the disease made harmless. It was not Jenner who set people declaring that
smallpox, if not abolished by vaccination, had at least been made much milder: on the contrary,
he recorded a pre-vaccination epidemic in which none of the persons attacked went to bed or
considered themselves as seriously ill. Neither Jenner, nor any other doctor ever, as far as
I know, inculcated the popular notion that everybody got smallpox as a matter of course before
vaccination was invented. That doctors get infected with these delusions, and are in their
unprofessional capacity as members of the public subject to them like other men, is true; but
if we had to decide whether vaccination was first forced on the public by the doctors or on
the doctors by the public, we should have to decide against the public.

STATISTICAL ILLUSIONS

Public ignorance of the laws of evidence and of statistics can hardly be exaggerated. There
may be a doctor here and there who in dealing with the statistics of disease has taken at least
the first step towards sanity by grasping the fact that as an attack of even the commonest
disease is an exceptional event, apparently over-whelming statistical evidence in favor of
any prophylactic can be produced by persuading the public that everybody caught the disease
formerly. Thus if a disease is one which normally attacks fifteen per cent of the population,
and if the effect of a prophylactic is actually to increase the proportion to twenty per cent,
the publication of this figure of twenty per cent will convince the public that the prophylactic
has reduced the percentage by eighty per cent instead of increasing it by five, because the
public, left to itself and to the old gentlemen who are always ready to remember, on every
possible subject, that things used to be much worse than they are now (such old gentlemen greatly
outnumber the laudatores tempori acti), will assume that the former percentage was about 100.
The vogue of the Pasteur treatment of hydrophobia, for instance, was due to the assumption
by the public that every person bitten by a rabid dog necessarily got hydrophobia. I myself
heard hydrophobia discussed in my youth by doctors in Dublin before a Pasteur Institute existed,
the subject having been brought forward there by the scepticism of an eminent surgeon as to
whether hydrophobia is really a specific disease or only ordinary tetanus induced (as tetanus
was then supposed to be induced) by a lacerated wound. There were no statistics available as
to the proportion of dog bites that ended in hydrophobia; but nobody ever guessed that the
cases could be more than two or three per cent of the bites. On me, therefore, the results
published by the Pasteur Institute produced no such effect as they did on the ordinary man
who thinks that the bite of a mad dog means certain hydrophobia. It seemed to me that the proportion
of deaths among the cases treated at the Institute was rather higher, if anything, than might
have been expected had there been no Institute in existence. But to the public every Pasteur
patient who did not die was miraculously saved from an agonizing death by the beneficent white
magic of that most trusty of all wizards, the man of science.

Even trained statisticians often fail to appreciate the extent to which statistics are vitiated
by the unrecorded assumptions of their interpreters. Their attention is too much occupied with
the cruder tricks of those who make a corrupt use of statistics for advertizing purposes. There
is, for example, the percentage dodge. In some hamlet, barely large enough to have a name,
two people are attacked during a smallpox epidemic. One dies: the other recovers. One has vaccination
marks: the other has none. Immediately either the vaccinists or the antivaccinists publish
the triumphant news that at such and such a place not a single vaccinated person died of smallpox
whilst 100 per cent of the unvaccinated perished miserably; or, as the case may be, that 100
per cent of the unvaccinated recovered whilst the vaccinated succumbed to the last man. Or,
to take another common instance, comparisons which are really comparisons between two social
classes with different standards of nutrition and education are palmed off as comparisons between
the results of a certain medical treatment and its neglect. Thus it is easy to prove that the
wearing of tall hats and the carrying of umbrellas enlarges the chest, prolongs life, and confers
comparative immunity from disease; for the statistics show that the classes which use these
articles are bigger, healthier, and live longer than the class which never dreams of possessing
such things. It does not take much perspicacity to see that what really makes this difference
is not the tall hat and the umbrella, but the wealth and nourishment of which they are evidence,
and that a gold watch or membership of a club in Pall Mall might be proved in the same way
to have the like sovereign virtues. A university degree, a daily bath, the owning of thirty
pairs of trousers, a knowledge of Wagner's music, a pew in church, anything, in short, that
implies more means and better nurture than the mass of laborers enjoy, can be statistically
palmed off as a magic-spell conferring all sorts of privileges.

In the case of a prophylactic enforced by law, this illusion is intensified grotesquely, because
only vagrants can evade it. Now vagrants have little power of resisting any disease: their
death rate and their case-mortality rate is always high relatively to that of respectable folk.
Nothing is easier, therefore, than to prove that compliance with any public regulation produces
the most gratifying results. It would be equally easy even if the regulation actually raised
the death-rate, provided it did not raise it sufficiently to make the average householder,
who cannot evade regulations, die as early as the average vagrant who can.

THE SURPRISES OF ATTENTION AND NEGLECT

There is another statistical illusion which is independent of class differences. A common complaint
of houseowners is that the Public Health Authorities frequently compel them to instal costly
sanitary appliances which are condemned a few years later as dangerous to health, and forbidden
under penalties. Yet these discarded mistakes are always made in the first instance on the
strength of a demonstration that their introduction has reduced the death-rate. The explanation
is simple. Suppose a law were made that every child in the nation should be compelled to drink
a pint of brandy per month, but that the brandy must be administered only when the child was
in good health, with its digestion and so forth working normally, and its teeth either naturally
or artificially sound. Probably the result would be an immediate and startling reduction in
child mortality, leading to further legislation increasing the quantity of brandy to a gallon.
Not until the brandy craze had been carried to a point at which the direct harm done by it
would outweigh the incidental good, would an anti-brandy party be listened to. That incidental
good would be the substitution of attention to the general health of children for the neglect
which is now the rule so long as the child is not actually too sick to run about and play as
usual. Even if this attention were confined to the children's teeth, there would be an improvement
which it would take a good deal of brandy to cancel.

This imaginary case explains the actual case of the sanitary appliances which our local sanitary
authorities prescribe today and condemn tomorrow. No sanitary contrivance which the mind of
even the very worst plumber can devize could be as disastrous as that total neglect for long
periods which gets avenged by pestilences that sweep through whole continents, like the black
death and the cholera. If it were proposed at this time of day to discharge all the sewage
of London crude and untreated into the Thames, instead of carrying it, after elaborate treatment,
far out into the North Sea, there would be a shriek of horror from all our experts. Yet if
Cromwell had done that instead of doing nothing, there would probably have been no Great Plague
of London. When the Local Health Authority forces every householder to have his sanitary arrangements
thought about and attended to by somebody whose special business it is to attend to such things,
then it matters not how erroneous or even directly mischievous may be the specific measures
taken: the net result at first is sure to be an improvement. Not until attention has been effectually
substituted for neglect as the general rule, will the statistics begin to show the merits of
the particular methods of attention adopted. And as we are far from having arrived at this
stage, being as to health legislation only at the beginning of things, we have practically
no evidence yet as to the value of methods. Simple and obvious as this is, nobody seems as
yet to discount the effect of substituting attention for neglect in drawing conclusions from
health statistics. Everything is put to the credit of the particular method employed, although
it may quite possibly be raising the death rate by five per thousand whilst the attention incidental
to it is reducing the death rate fifteen per thousand. The net gain of ten per thousand is
credited to the method, and made the excuse for enforcing more of it.

STEALING CREDIT FROM CIVILIZATION

There is yet another way in which specifics which have no merits at all, either direct or incidental,
may be brought into high repute by statistics. For a century past civilization has been cleaning
away the conditions which favor bacterial fevers. Typhus, once rife, has vanished: plague and
cholera have been stopped at our frontiers by a sanitary blockade. We still have epidemics
of smallpox and typhoid; and diphtheria and scarlet fever are endemic in the slums. Measles,
which in my childhood was not regarded as a dangerous disease, has now become so mortal that
notices are posted publicly urging parents to take it seriously. But even in these cases the
contrast between the death and recovery rates in the rich districts and in the poor ones has
led to the general conviction among experts that bacterial diseases are preventable; and they
already are to a large extent prevented. The dangers of infection and the way to avoid it are
better understood than they used to be. It is barely twenty years since people exposed themselves
recklessly to the infection of consumption and pneumonia in the belief that these diseases
were not "catching." Nowadays the troubles of consumptive patients are greatly increased by
the growing disposition to treat them as lepers. No doubt there is a good deal of ignorant
exaggeration and cowardly refusal to face a human and necessary share of the risk. That has
always been the case. We now know that the medieval horror of leprosy was out of all proportion
to the danger of infection, and was accompanied by apparent blindness to the infectiousness
of smallpox, which has since been worked up by our disease terrorists into the position formerly
held by leprosy. But the scare of infection, though it sets even doctors talking as if the
only really scientific thing to do with a fever patient is to throw him into the nearest ditch
and pump carbolic acid on him from a safe distance until he is ready to be cremated on the
spot, has led to much greater care and cleanliness. And the net result has been a series of
victories over disease.

Now let us suppose that in the early nineteenth century somebody had come forward with a theory
that typhus fever always begins in the top joint of the little finger; and that if this joint
be amputated immediately after birth, typhus fever will disappear. Had such a suggestion been
adopted, the theory would have been triumphantly confirmed; for as a matter of fact, typhus
fever has disappeared. On the other hand cancer and madness have increased (statistically)
to an appalling extent. The opponents of the little finger theory would therefore be pretty
sure to allege that the amputations were spreading cancer and lunacy. The vaccination controversy
is full of such contentions. So is the controversy as to the docking of horses' tails and the
cropping of dogs' ears. So is the less widely known controversy as to circumcision and the
declaring certain kinds of flesh unclean by the Jews. To advertize any remedy or operation,
you have only to pick out all the most reassuring advances made by civilization, and boldly
present the two in the relation of cause and effect: the public will swallow the fallacy without
a wry face. It has no idea of the need for what is called a control experiment. In Shakespear's
time and for long after it, mummy was a favorite medicament. You took a pinch of the dust of
a dead Egyptian in a pint of the hottest water you could bear to drink; and it did you a great
deal of good. This, you thought, proved what a sovereign healer mummy was. But if you had tried
the control experiment of taking the hot water without the mummy, you might have found the
effect exactly the same, and that any hot drink would have done as well.

BIOMETRIKA

