"That you may see it from my point of view, sir, allow me to remind you of a few facts. That
sewing-girl was generously devoted to me; she had given me unquestionable proofs of her attachment.
Her mind was equal to her noble heart; but she had an invincible dislike to you. All on a sudden
she disappears mysteriously from my house, and you do your best to cast upon her odious suspicions.
M. de Montbron has a paternal affection for me; but, as I must confess, little sympathy for
you; and you have always tried to produce a coldness between us. Finally, Prince Djalma has
a deep affection for me, and you employ the most perfidious treachery to kill that sentiment
within him. For what end do you act thus? I do not know; but certainly with some hostile design."

"It appears to me, madame," said Rodin, severely, "that you have forgotten services performed."

"I do not deny, sir, that you took me from the house of Dr. Baleinier; but, a few days sooner
or later, I must infallibly have been released by M. de Montbron."

"You are right, my dear child," said the count; "it may be that your enemies wished to claim
the merit of what must necessarily have happened through the exertions of your friends."

"You are drowning, and I save you--it is all a mistake to feel grateful," said Rodin, bitterly;
"some one else would no doubt have saved you a little later."

"The comparison is wanting in exactness," said Adrienne, with a smile; "a lunatic asylum is
not a river, and though, from what I see, I think you quite capable of diving, you have had
no occasion to swim on this occasion. You merely opened a door for me, which would have opened
of itself a little later."

"Very good, my dear child!" said the count, laughing heartily at Adrienne's reply.

"I know, sir, that your care did not extend to me only. The daughters of Marshal Simon were
brought back by you; but we may imagine that the claim of the Duke de Ligny to the possession
of his daughters would not have been in vain. You returned to an old soldier his imperial cross,
which he held to be a sacred relic; it is a very touching incident. Finally, you unmasked the
Abbe d'Aigrigny and Dr. Baleinier: but I had already made up my mind to unmask then. However,
all this proves that you are a very clever man--"

"Oh, madame!" said Rodin, humbly.

"Full of resources and invention--"

"Oh, madame!"

"It is not my fault if, in our long interview at Dr. Baleinier's, you betrayed that superiority
of mind which struck me so forcibly, and which seems to embarrass you so much at present. What
would you have, sir?--great minds like yours find it difficult to maintain their incognito.
Yet, as by different ways--oh! very different," added the young lady, maliciously, "we are
tending to the same end (still keeping in view our conversation at Dr. Baleinier's), I wish,
for the sake of our future communion, as you call it, to give you a piece of advice, and speak
frankly to you."

Rodin had listened to Mdlle. de Cardoville with apparent impassibility, holding his hat under
his arm, and twirling his thumbs, whilst his hands were crossed upon his waistcoat. The only
external mark of the intense agitation into which he was thrown by the calm words of Adrienne,
was that the livid eyelids of the Jesuit, which had been hypocritically closed, became gradually
red, as the blood flowed into them. Nevertheless, he answered Mdlle. de Cardoville in a firm
voice, and with a low bow: "Good advice and frankness are always excellent things."

"You see, sir," resumed Adrienne, with some excitement, "happy love bestows such penetration,
such energy, such courage, as enables one to laugh at perils, to detect stratagems, and to
defy hatred. Believe me, the divine light which surrounds two loving hearts will be sufficient
to disperse all darkness, and reveal every snare. You see, in India--excuse my weakness, but
I like to talk of India," added the young girl, with a smile of indescribable grace and meaning--"in
India, when travellers sleep at night, they kindle great fires round their ajoupa (excuse this
touch of local coloring), and far as extends the luminous circle, it puts to flight by its
mere brilliancy, all the impure and venomous reptiles that shun the day and live only in darkness."

"The meaning of this comparison has quite escaped me," said Rodin, continuing to twirl his
thumbs, and half raising his eyelids, which were getting redder and redder.

"I will speak more plainly," said Adrienne, with a smile. "Suppose, sir, that the last is a
service which you have rendered me and the prince--for you only proceed by way of services--that,
I acknowledge, is novel and ingenious."

"Bravo, my dear child!" said the count, joyfully. "The execution will be complete."

"Oh! this is meant for an execution?" said Rodin, still impassible.

"No, sir," answered Adrienne, with a smile; "it is a simple conversation between a poor young
girl and an old philosopher, the friend of humanity. Suppose, then, that these frequent services
that you have rendered to me and mine have suddenly opened my eyes; or, rather," added the
young girl, in a serious tone, "suppose that heaven, who gives to the mother the instinct to
defend her child, has given me, along with happiness, the instinct to preserve my happiness,
and that a vague presentiment, by throwing light on a thousand circumstances until now obscure,
has suddenly revealed to me that, instead of being the friend, you are perhaps, the most dangerous
enemy of myself and family."

"So we pass from the execution to suppositions," said Rodin, still immovable.

"And from suppositions, sir, if you must have it, to certainty," resumed Adrienne, with dignified
firmness; "yes, now I believe that I was for awhile your dupe, and I tell you, without hate,
without anger, but with regret--that it is painful to see a man of your sense and intelligence
stoop to such machinations, and, after having recourse to so many diabolical manoeuvres, finish
at last by being ridiculous; for, believe me, there is nothing more ridiculous for a man like
you, than to be vanquished by a young girl, who has no weapon, no defence, no instructor, but
her love. In a word, sir, I look upon you from to-day as an implacable and dangerous enemy;
for I half perceive your aim, without guessing by what means you will seek to accomplish it,
No doubt your future means will be worthy of the past. Well! in spite of all this, I do not
fear you. From tomorrow, my family will be informed of everything, and an active, intelligent,
resolute union will keep us all upon our guard, for it doubtless concerns this enormous inheritance,
of which they wish to deprive us. Now, what connection can there be between the wrongs I reproach
you with and the pecuniary end proposed? I do not at all know--but you have told me yourself
that our enemies are so dangerously skillful, and their craft so far-reaching, that we must
expect all, be prepared for all. I will remember the lesson. I have promised you frankness,
sir, and now I suppose you have it."

"It would be an imprudent frankness if I were your enemy," said Rodin, still impassible; "but
you also promised me some advice, my dear young lady."

"My advice will be short; do not attempt to continue the struggle, because, you see, there
is something stronger than you and yours--it is a woman's resolve, defending her happiness."

Adrienne pronounced these last words with so sovereign a confidence; her beautiful countenance
shone, as is it were, with such intrepid joy, that Rodin, notwithstanding his phlegmatic audacity,
was for a moment frightened. Yet he did not appear in the least disconcerted; and, after a
moment's silence, he resumed, with an air of almost contemptuous compassion: "My dear young
lady, we may perhaps never meet again; it is probable. Only remember one thing, which I now
repeat to you: I never justify myself. The future will provide for that. Notwithstanding which,
my dear young lady, I am your humble servant;" and he made her a low bow.

"Count, I beg to salute you most respectfully," he added, bowing still more humbly to M. de
Montbron; and he went out.

Hardly had Rodin left the room than Adrienne ran to her desk, and writing a few hasty lines,
sealed the note, and said to M. de Montbron: "I shall not see the prince before to-morrow--as
much from superstition of the heart as because it is necessary for my plans that this interview
should be attended with some little solemnity. You shall know all; but I write to him on the
instant, for, with an enemy like M. Rodin, one must be prepared for all."

"You are right, my dear child; quick! the letter." Adrienne gave it to him.

"I tell him enough," said she, "to calm his grief; and not enough to deprive me of the delicious
happiness of the surprise I reserve for to morrow."

"All this has as much sense as heart in it: I will hasten to the prince's abode, to deliver
your letter. I shall not see him, for I could not answer for myself. But come! our proposed
drive, our evening's amusement, are still to hold good."

"Certainly. I have more need than ever to divert my thoughts till to morrow. I feel, too, that
the fresh air will do me good, for this interview with M. Rodin has warmed me a little."

"The old wretch! but we will talk further of him. I will hasten to the prince's and return
with Madame de Morinval, to fetch you to the Champs Elysees."

The Count de Montbron withdrew precipitately, as joyful at his departure as he had been sad
on his arrival.

CHAPTER XI.

THE CHAMPS-ELYSEES

It was about two hours after the interview of Rodin with Mdlle. de Cardoville. Numerous loungers,
attracted to the Champs-Elysees by the serenity of a fine spring day (it was towards the end
of the month of March) stopped to admire a very handsome equipage. A bright-blue open carriage,
with white-and-blue wheels, drawn by four superb horses, of cream color, with black manes,
and harness glittering with silver ornaments, mounted by two boy postilions of equal size,
with black velvet caps, light-blue cassimere jackets with white collars, buckskin breeches,
and top-boots; two tall, powdered footmen, also in light-blue livery, with white collars and
facings, being seated in the rumble behind.

No equipage could have been turned out in better style. The horses, full of blood, spirit,
and vigor, were skillfully managed by the postilions, and stepped with singular regularity,
gracefully keeping time in their movements, champing their bits covered with foam, and ever
and anon shaking their cockades of blue and white silk, with long floating ends, and a bright
rose blooming in the midst.

