The best clue to a natural interpretation of the strange features of the surface of Mars is
that suggested by the American astronomer Mr. W.H. Pickering in Popular Astronomy (1904). Briefly
it is, that both the 'canals' of Mars and the rifts as well as the luminous streaks on the
moon are cracks in the volcanic crust, caused by internal stresses due to the action of the
heated interior. These cracks he considers to be symmetrically arranged with regard to small
'craterlets' (Mr. Lowell's 'oases') because they have originated from them, just as the white
streaks on the moon radiate from the larger craters as centres. He further supposes that water
and carbon-dioxide issue from the interior into these fissures, and, in conjunction with sunlight,
promote the growth of vegetation. Owing to the very rare atmosphere, the vapours, he thinks,
would not ascend but would roll down the outsides of the craterlets and along the borders of
the canals, thus irrigating the immediate vicinity and serving to promote the growth of some
form of vegetation which renders the canals and oases visible.[13]

[Footnote 13: Nature, vol. 70, p. 536.]

This opinion is especially important because, next to Mr. Lowell, Mr. Pickering is perhaps
the astronomer who has given most attention to Mars during the last fifteen years. He was for
some time at Flagstaff with Mr. Lowell, and it was he who discovered the oases or craterlets,
and who originated the idea that we did not see the 'canals' themselves but only the vegetable
growth on their borders. He also observed Mars in the Southern Hemisphere at Arequipa; and
he has since made an elaborate study of the moon by means of a specially constructed telescope
of 135 feet focal length, which produced a direct image on photographic plates nearly 16 inches
in diameter.[14]

[Footnote 14: Nature, vol. 70, May 5, p.xi, supplement.]

It is clear therefore that Mr. Lowell's views as to the artificial nature of the 'canals' of
Mars are not accepted by an astronomer of equal knowledge and still wider experience. Yet Professor
Pickering's alternative view is more a suggestion than an explanation, because there is no
attempt to account for the enormous length and perfect straightness of the lines on Mars, so
different from anything that is found either on our earth or on the moon. There must evidently
be some great peculiarity of structure or of conditions on Mars to account for these features,
and I shall now attempt to point out what this peculiarity is and how it may have arisen.

The Meteoritic Hypothesis.

During the last quarter of a century a considerable change has come over the opinions of astronomers
as regards the probable origin of the Solar System. The large amount of knowledge of the stellar
universe, and especially of nebulae, of comets and of meteor-streams which we now possess,
together with many other phenomena, such as the constitution of Saturn's rings, the great number
and extent of the minor planets, and generally of the vast amount of matter in the form of
meteor-rings and meteoric dust in and around our system, have all pointed to a different origin
for the planets and their satellites than that formulated by Laplace as the Nebular hypothesis.

It is now seen more clearly than at any earlier period, that most of the planets possess special
characteristics which distinguish them from one another, and that such an origin as Laplace
suggested--the slow cooling and contraction of one vast sun-mist or nebula, besides presenting
inherent difficulties--many think them impossibilities--in itself does not afford an adequate
explanation of these peculiarities. Hence has arisen what is termed the Meteoritic theory,
which has been ably advocated for many years by Sir Norman Lockyer, and with some unimportant
modifications is now becoming widely accepted. Briefly, this theory is, that the planets have
been formed by the slow aggregation of solid particles around centres of greatest condensation;
but as many of my readers may be altogether unacquainted with it, I will here give a very clear
statement of what it is, from Professor J.W. Gregory's presidential address to the Geological
Section of the British Association of the present year. He began by saying that these modern
views were of far more practical use to men of science than that of Laplace, and that they
give us a history of the world consistent with the actual records of geology. He then continues:

"According to Sir Norman Lockyer's Meteoritic Hypothesis, nebulae, comets, and many so-called
stars consist of swarms of meteorites which, though normally cold and dark, are heated by repeated
collisions, and so become luminous. They may even be volatilised into glowing meteoric vapour;
but in time this heat is dissipated, and the force of gravity condenses a meteoritic swarm
into a single globe. 'Some of the swarms are,' says Lockyer, 'truly members of the solar system,'
and some of these travel round the sun in nearly circular orbits, like planets. They may be
regarded as infinitesimal planets, and so Chamberlain calls them 'planetismals.'

"The planetismal theory is a development of the meteoritic theory, and presents it in an especially
attractive guise. It regards meteorites as very sparsely distributed through space, and gravity
as powerless to collect them into dense groups. So it assigns the parentage of the solar system
to a spiral nebula composed of planetismals, and the planets as formed from knots in the nebula,
where many planetismals had been concentrated near the intersections of their orbits. These
groups of meteorites, already as dense as a swarm of bees, were then packed closer by the influence
of gravity, and the contracting mass was heated by the pressure, even above the normal melting-point
of the material, which was kept rigid by the weight of the overlying layers."

Now, adopting this theory as the last word of science upon the subject of the origin of planets,
we see that it affords immense scope for diversity in results depending on the total amount
of matter available within the range of attraction of an incipient planetary mass, and the
rates at which this matter becomes available. By a special combination of these two quantities
(which have almost certainly been different for each planet) I think we may be able to throw
some light upon the structure and physical features of Mars.

The Probable Mode of Origin of Mars.

This planet, lying between two of much greater mass, has evidently had less material from which
to be formed by aggregation; and if we assume--as in the absence of evidence to the contrary
we have a right to do--that its beginnings were not much later (or earlier) than those of the
earth, then its smaller size shows that it has in all probability aggregated very much more
slowly. But the internal heat acquired by a planet while forming in this manner will depend
upon the rate at which it aggregates and the velocity with which the planetismals' fall into
it, and this velocity will increase with its mass and consequent force of gravity. In the early
stages of a planet's growth it will probably remain cold, the small amount of heat produced
by each impact being lost by radiation before the next one occurs; and with a small and slowly
aggregating planet this condition will prevail till it approaches its full size. Then only
will its gravitative force be sufficient to cause incoming matter to fall upon it with so powerful
an impact as to produce intense heat. Further, the compressive force of a small planet will
be a less effective heat-producing agency than in the case of a larger one.

The earth we know has acquired a large amount of internal heat, probably sufficient to liquefy
its whole interior; but Mars has only one-ninth part the mass of the earth, and it is quite
possible, and even probable, that its comparatively small attractive force would never have
liquefied or even permanently heated the more central portions of its mass. This being admitted,
I suggest the following course of events as quite possible, and not even improbable, in the
case of this planet. During the whole of its early growth, and till it acquired nearly its
present diameter, its rate of aggregation was so slow that the planetismals falling upon it,
though they might have been heated and even partially liquefied by the impact, were never in
such quantity as to produce any considerable heating effect on the whole mass, and each local
rise of temperature was soon lost by radiation. The planet thus grew as a solid and cold mass,
compacted together by the impact of the incoming matter as well as by its slowly increasing
gravitative force. But when it had attained to within perhaps 100, perhaps 50 miles, or less,
of its present diameter, a great change occurred in the opportunity for further growth. Some
large and dense swarm of meteorites, perhaps containing a number of bodies of the size of the
asteroids, came within the range of the sun's attraction and were drawn by it into an orbit
which crossed that of Mars at such a small angle that the planet was able at each revolution
to capture a considerable number of them. The result might then be that, as in the case of
the earth, the continuous inpour of the fresh matter first heated, and later on liquefied the
greater part of it as well perhaps as a thin layer of the planet's original surface; so that
when in due course the whole of the meteor-swarm had been captured, Mars had acquired its present
mass, but would consist of an intensely heated, and either liquid or plastic thin outer shell
resting upon a cold and solid interior.

The size and position of the two recently discovered satellites of Mars, which are believed
to be not more than ten miles in diameter, the more remote revolving around its primary very
little slower than the planet rotates, while the nearer one, which is considerably less distant
from the planet's surface than its own antipodes and revolves around it more than three times
during the Martian day, may perhaps be looked upon as the remnants of the great meteor-swarm
which completed the Martian development, and which are perhaps themselves destined at some
distant period to fall into the planet. Should future astronomers witness the phenomenon the
effect produced upon its surface would be full of instruction.

As the result of such an origin as that suggested, Mars would possess a structure which, in
the essential feature of heat-distribution, would be the very opposite of that which is believed
to characterise the earth, yet it might have been produced by a very slight modification of
the same process. This peculiar heat-distribution, together with a much smaller mass and gravitative
force, would lead to a very different development of the surface and an altogether diverse
geological history from ours, which has throughout been profoundly influenced by its heated
interior, its vast supply of water, and the continuous physical and chemical reactions between
the interior and the crust.

These reactions have, in our case, been of substantially the same nature, and very nearly of
the same degree of intensity throughout the whole vast eons of geological time, and they have
resulted in a wonderfully complex succession of rock-formations--volcanic, plutonic, and sedimentary--more
or less intermingled throughout the whole series, here remaining horizontal as when first deposited,
there upheaved or depressed, fractured or crushed, inclined or contorted; denuded by rain and
rivers with the assistance of heat and cold, of frost and ice, in an unceasing series of changes,
so that however varied the surface may be, with hill and dale, plains and uplands, mountain
ranges and deep intervening valleys, these are as nothing to the diversities of interior structure,
as exhibited in the sides of every alpine valley or precipitous escarpment, and made known
to us by the work of the miner and the well-borer in every part of the world.

Structural Straight Lines on the Earth.

The great characteristic of the earth, both on its surface and in its interior, is thus seen
to be extreme diversity both of form and structure, and this is further intensified by the
varied texture, constitution, hardness, and density of the various rocks and debris of which
it is composed. It is therefore not surprising that, with such a complex outer crust, we should
nowhere find examples of those geometrical forms and almost world-wide straight lines that
give such a remarkable, and as Mr. Lowell maintains, 'non-natural' character to the surface
of Mars, but which, as it seems to me, of themselves afford prima facie evidence of a corresponding
simplicity and uniformity in its internal structure.

Yet we are not ourselves by any means devoid of 'straight lines' structurally produced, in
spite of every obstacle of diversity of form and texture, of softness and hardness, of lamination
or crystallisation, which are adverse to such developments. Examples of these are the numerous
'faults' which occur in the harder rocks, and which often extend for great distances in almost
perfect straight lines. In our own country we have the Tyneside and Craven faults in the North
of England, which are 30 miles long and often 20 yards wide; but even more striking is the
great Cleveland Dyke--a wall of volcanic rock dipping slightly towards the south, but sometimes
being almost vertical, and stretching across the country, over hill and dale, in an almost
perfect straight line from a point on the coast ten miles north of Scarborough, in a west-by-north
direction, passing about two miles south of Stockton and terminating about six miles north-by-east
of Barnard Castle, a distance of very nearly 60 miles. The great fault between the Highlands
and Lowlands of Scotland extends across the country from Stonehaven to near Helensburgh, a
distance of 120 miles; and there are very many more of less importance.

Much more extensive are some of the great continental dislocations, often forming valleys of
considerable width and length. The Upper Rhine flows in one of these great valleys of subsidence
for about 180 miles, from Mulhausen to Frankfort, in a generally straight line, though modified
by denudation. Vaster still is the valley of the Jordan through the Sea of Galilee to the Dead
Sea, continued by the Wady Arabah to the Gulf of Akaba, believed to form one vast geological
depression or fracture extending in a straight line for 400 miles.

Thousands of such faults, dykes, or depressions exist in every part of the world, all believed
to be due to the gradual shrinking of the heated interior to which the solid crust has to accommodate
itself, and they are especially interesting and instructive for our present purpose as showing
the tendency of such fractures of solid rock-material to extend to great lengths in straight
lines, notwithstanding the extreme irregularity both in the surface contour as well as in the
internal structures of the varied deposits and formations through which they pass.

Probable Origin of the Surface-features of Mars.

Returning now to Mars, let us consider the probable course of events from the point at which
we left it. The heat produced by impact and condensation would be likely to release gases which
had been in combination with some of the solid matter, or perhaps been itself in a solid state
due to intense cold, and these, escaping outwards to the surface, would produce on a small
scale a certain amount of upheaval and volcanic disturbance; and as an outer crust rapidly
formed, a number of vents might remain as craters or craterlets in a moderate state of activity.
Owing to the comparatively small force of gravity, the outer crust would become scoriaceous
and more or less permeated by the gases, which would continue to escape through it, and this
would facilitate the cooling of the whole of the heated outer crust, and allow it to become
rather densely compacted. When the greater portion of the gases had thus escaped to the outer
surface and assisted to form a scanty atmosphere, such as now exists, there would be no more
internal disturbance and the cooling of the heated outer coating would steadily progress, resulting
at last in a slightly heated, and later in a cold layer of moderate thickness and great general
uniformity. Owing to the absence of rain and rivers, denudation such as we experience would
be unknown, though the superficial scoriaceous crust might be partially broken up by expansion
and contraction, and suffer a certain amount of atmospheric erosion.

The final result of this mode of aggregation would be, that the planet would consist of an
outer layer of moderate thickness as compared with the central mass, which outer layer would
have cooled from a highly heated state to a temperature considerably below the freezing-point,
and this would have been all the time contracting upon a previously cold, and therefore non-contracting
nucleus. The result would be that very early in the process great superficial tensions would
be produced, which could only be relieved by cracks or fissures, which would initiate at points
of weakness--probably at the craterlets already referred to--from which they would radiate
in several directions. Each crack thus formed near the surface would, as cooling progressed,
develop in length and depth; and owing to the general uniformity of the material, and possibly
some amount of crystalline structure due to slow and continuous cooling down to a very low
temperature, the cracks would tend to run on in straight lines and to extend vertically downwards,
which two circumstances would necessarily result in their forming portions of 'great circles'
on the planet's surface--the two great facts which Mr. Lowell appeals to as being especially
'non-natural.'

Symmetry of Basaltic Columns.

We have however one quite natural fact on our earth which serves to illustrate one of these
two features, the direction of the downward fissure. This is, the comparatively common phenomenon
of basaltic columns and 'Giant's Causeways.' The wonderful regularity of these, and especially
the not unfrequent upright pillars in serried ranks, as in the palisades of the Hudson river,
must have always impressed observers with their appearance of artificiality. Yet they are undoubtedly
the result of the very slow cooling and contraction of melted rocks under compression by strata
below and above them, so that, when once solidified, the mass was held in position and the
tension produced by contraction could only be relieved by numerous very small cracks at short
distances from each other in every direction, resulting in five, six, or seven-sided polygons,
with sides only a few inches long. This contraction began of course at the coolest surface,
generally the upper one; and observation of these columns in various positions has established
the rule that their direction lengthways is always at right angles to the cooling surface,
and thus, whenever this surface was horizontal, the columns became almost exactly vertical.

How this applies to Mars.

