THE PROBLEM OF THE OHIO MOUNDS.

By Cyrus Thomas.

CONTENTS

Introduction

CHAPTER I.

  Historical evidence

CHAPTER II.

  Similarity of the arts and customs of the mound-builders to
  those of Indians

  Architecture

  Tribal divisions

  Similarity in burial customs

  Removal of the flesh before burial

  Burial beneath or in dwellings

  Burial in a sitting or squatting posture

  The use of fire in burial ceremonies

  Similarity of the stone implements and ornaments of various
  tribes

  Mound and Indian pottery

CHAPTER III.

  Stone graves and what they teach

CHAPTER IV.

  The Cherokees as mound-builders

CHAPTER V.

  The Cherokees and the Tallegwi

INTRODUCTION.

No other ancient works of the United States have become so widely known or have excited so
much interest as those of Ohio. This is due in part to their remarkable character but in a
much greater degree to the "Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley," by Messrs. Squier
and Davis, in which these monuments are described and figured.

The constantly recurring question, "Who constructed these works?" has brought before the public
a number of widely different theories, though the one which has been most generally accepted
is that they originated with a people long since extinct or driven from the country, who had
attained a culture status much in advance of that reached by the aborigines inhabiting the
country at the time of its discovery by Europeans.

The opinion advanced in this paper, in support of which evidence will be presented, is that
the ancient works of the State are due to Indians of several different tribes, and that some
at least of the typical works, were built by the ancestors of the modern Cherokees. The discussion
will be limited chiefly to the latter proposition, as the limits of the paper will not permit
a full presentation of all the data which might be brought forward in support of the theory,
and the line of argument will be substantially as follows:

FIRST. A brief statement of the reasons for believing that the Indians were the authors of
all the ancient monuments of the Mississippi Valley and Gulf States; consequently the Ohio
mounds must have been built by Indians.

SECOND. Evidence that the Cherokees were mound builders after reaching their historic seats
in East Tennessee and western North Carolina. This and the preceding positions are strengthened
by the introduction of evidence showing that the Shawnees were the authors of a certain type
of stone graves, and of mounds and other works connected therewith.

THIRD. A tracing of the Cherokees, by the mound testimony and by tradition, back to Ohio.

FOURTH. Reasons for believing that the Cherokees were the Tallegwi of tradition and the authors
of some of the typical works of Ohio.

CHAPTER I.

THE HISTORICAL EVIDENCE.

Space will not permit any review here of the various theories in regard to the builders, or
of the objections made to the theory that they were Indians, or of the historical evidence
adducible in support of this theory. Simple declaration on these points must suffice.

The historical evidence is clear and undisputed that when the region in which the mounds appear
was discovered by Europeans it was inhabited by Indians only. Of their previous history nothing
is known except what is furnished by vague and uncertain traditions or inferred from the study
of their languages and customs. On the other hand there is no historical or other evidence
that any other race or people than the Indians ever occupied this region, or any part of it,
previous to its discovery by Europeans at the close of the fifteenth century.

