The Fifth Machine, was the Pump of Ctesibius; it was composed of two Bodies of Pumps, in which
the Suckets having drawn the VVater when they were pulled up, they both pressed it violently
into a Pipe which was fastned at the bottom of the Body of the Pump when they went down. For
the VVater by the Impulsion of the Sucket, was forced to enter into these Pipes, because it
could not go out by the Openings by which it entred, because of the Suckets which stopped them,
these two Pipes were joyned together in a Tambour, which had likewise its Suckets, which hindred
the VVater from descending into the Bodies of the Pumps, after it had been pressed into the
Tambour, or Vase, which had another Pipe, through which the VVater was forced as high as they
pleased, by Impulsion of the Suckets.

[Sidenote: Lib. 10. Chap. 10.]

All these Machines were either moved by Strength of Men, or by VVater-Mills, according to the
convenience of the place.

ART. V.

  Of Water-Mills for Grinding of Corn.

[Sidenote: Lib. 10. Chap. 10.]

Water-Mills were moved by the help of a great VVheel which had many VVings, which were forced
by the Current. The Axle-tree of this great VVheel, traversed another VVheel which had Cogs,
which made the Lanterne or Trundle-head go, which was placed Horizontally, which was traversed
by a Beam of Iron, which entred through above, into an Iron in form of a VVedge, which helped
to fasten the Beam in the Mill-stone, above which was the Mill-Hopper, in form of a Funnel.

ART. VI.

 Of other Hydraulick Machines.

There were many other Machines which moved by the help of the VVater, as Hour-Glasses, Organs,
Machines for Measuring the VVays, and knowing the swiftness or slowness of Sailing.

The Hour-Glasses marked the Hours by the help of VVater, which passing slowly, a little hole
made at the bottom of a Vessel, and falling into another, in elevating it self insensibly in
the Vessel which it filled, raised a piece of Cork, which hanging at one of the ends of a Chain
wrapped about an Axle-tree, and which had at the other end a little Bag full of Sand, and a
little lighter than the Cork: for this Chain turning, the Axle-tree likewise turned a Pin or
Hand, which marked the Hours upon a Dial.

[Sidenote: Lib. 10. Chap. 12.]

The Organs played by help of two Suckets, which were pulled up or let down in the Bodies of
the Pump. The Suckets pushed the Air with violence into a Funnel reversed in a Copper Coffer
half full of VVater, and pressed the Water, and constrained it to ascend round about within
the Coffer, which made that its weight in making it re-enter into the Funnel, pushed the Air
into the Pipes, and made them Play, producing the same Effects that the Bellows did.

[Sidenote: Lib. 10. Chap. 14.]

They measured the way that the Ships make by the help of a little Mill, which was fastned to
the Ship, and which turned by the resistance that its VVings found in the VVater when the Ship
went forward and the Axle-tree of this Mill had a little Rong or Tooth, which every round pushed
forwards one of the Teeth of the great VVheel, which turned another, and that another which
turned a Pin or Handle, which marked the number of turnings, that the Mill made, by which means
it was easie to take an account of the Perches, and Leagues that the Ship sailed.

They made use of the same Machine on the Land, fixing to the Nave of the VVheel of a Coach,
a Tooth which made many VVheels be turned as in the above-mentioned Machine, at the last of
which, was fastned a Pin or Handle, which marked the number of Perches and Leagues. This Machine
had likewise a sort of a Counting VVheel, which at every Mile that the Coach went, let a Pibble
fall into a Vessel of Brass, to give notice that they had gone a Mile.

ART. VII.

  Of Machines of War.

[Sidenote: Lib. 10. Chap. 15.]

The Machines of VVar of the Ancients were of three Sorts, for they were made either to Lance,
Arrows, such as were the Scorpions or Javelins, such as were the Catapulta's, or Stones, such
as were Ballista's or fiery Darts, such as were the Pyroboli, or they were made to beat down
the VValls, such as were the battering Rams, and the Terebra, or to come covered to the VValls,
and so safely Mount the Ramparts, such as were the Tortoises or Testudo's, and the Towers of VVood.

[Sidenote: Lib. 10. Chap. 18.]

The Scorpions were a sort of great Crossbows, which were made use of to defend the VValls,
and which likewise the Assailants made use of in the wooden Towers, to annoy those that defended
the VValls.

The Catapulta, lanced Javelins or Javelots, from 12 to 15 Foot in length, they were made of
two Trees, set one against another, like the Masts of a Ship, which were bended in drawing
them with a Hand-Mill. These Trees being on a suddain unbent, furiously struck together, and
forced violently the Javelin. They were bent the one after the other by the same Cord, which
was made of Guts, to the end, that the Master who managed the Engine, might be assured, that
the two Trees or Beams were equally bent. He knew it by sounding the Cord when both the Beams
were bent, and when the End above was drawn even to the Capital of the Machine, where they
were stayed by a Pin of Iron, which was driven out by a quick stroke of a Hammer when they
unbent it. There was a Cylinder which traversed an excentrical piece, by the help of which
they heightned, or let down the End of one of the Beams below, according as the Master of the
Machine judged it necessary, for the augmenting or diminishing their bent, which was known
by the sound of the Cord, which was alike in both, when they were equally bent. See Table XI.

The Ballista's were bended and strung as the Catapulta's, but instead of Javelins, they cast
great Stones.

[Sidenote: Lib. 10. Chap. 22.]

The Pyroboli were Machines, which lanced or cast Darts, to vvhich vvas fixed combustible Matter,
vvhich vvas kindled vvhen they darted it against Machines of VVar or Shipping.

The Ram vvas to beat dovvn Walls and make breaches. It vvas a great Beam headed with Iron;
it vvas hung by the middle, and pushed by the Soldiery vvith great violence against the Walls.

The Terebra vvas something like the Ram, being a strong Beam pointed vvith Iron, but it vvas
sharp pointed, and it made vvay for the Ram, splitting the Stones.

[Sidenote: Lib. 10. Chap. 20.]

The Testudo or Tortoise, vvere great large and low Towers of Wood, which were rowled upon six
or eight Wheels, they were covered with raw Hides to defend them from fire. Their use was to
cover them that approached the Walls to undermine them, or beat them with the battering Ram.

The Towers of Wood were made to raise the Assailants as high as the Walls, to chace the Besieged
away with Arrows and Scorpions, and to lay Bridges from the Towers to the Wall; they were sometimes
Thirty Fathoms high, having Twenty Stages. They were covered, as the Tortoises with raw Hides;
they had each of them a Hundred Men, which were employed as well to move them, as to annoy
the Besieged.

FINIS.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The Figures inserted here are those only which are chiefly necessary to the understanding of
Vitruvius, that is to say, those which serve for the comprehending the Rules that Architecture
gives for Buildings, now in use. The Figures of other things, of which Vitruvius treats, are
omitted, it being enough to give One only, to serve as an Example of each kind, viz. one for
all Temples, one for all Theatres, and one for all Machines.

THE EXPLICATION Of the FIRST TABLE.

This Table contains the seven several sorts of Masonry; A is the first, which was called Reticulatum,
because it was like the Mashes of Nets; BB is the second, it's called Insertum, that is to
say, bound Masonry, because the Stones are one bound within another, every one being bound
with four, two below, and two above: CC is the third sort, which was particular to the Greeks;
it may be called double binding, for it's not only of Stones of the same course, but of two
courses III. D is the fourth, called Isodomum, because the Beds or Lays are equal in height.
E is the fifth, called Pseudisodomum, because they are of an equal heighth. FF, GG, H is the
sixth, called Emplecton, because it was filled up any way in the middle. FF are the Stones
which make the Courses. K is the seventh, which may be called Compound, because its Courses
are of hewn Stone, and the middle filled up with Rubbish; and these Courses are fasten'd together
with Cramp-irons.

This Table refers to pag. 47.

THE EXPLICATION Of the SECOND TABLE.

This Table contains the five sorts of Edifices: AA is the Pycnostyle; that is to say, where
the Pillars are very close, the Intercolumniation being but of one Diameter, and a half of
the Column: BB is the Systyle, viz. where the Pillars have two Diameters of Intercolumniation:
CC is the Diastyle, viz. where the Pillars are at that distance, that they have for the Intercolumniation
three Diameters: DD is the Areostyle, where the Pillars are far asunder. There is no certain
Proportion; we have given in this Figure four Diameters of Intercolumniation, it may have more:
The fifth sort called Eustyle, is in the third Table.

This Table refers to pag. 80.

THE EXPLICATION Of the THIRD TABLE.

This Table contains the Plan and Elevation of the fifth sort of Edifices, called Eustyle, viz.
where the Pillars are distant one from another by more convenient Proportion: Its Intercolumniations
have all two Diameters and a quarter, except the Intercolumniations in the middle of the Face
before and behind, which have three Diameters.

This plan shews the different parts of the ancient Temples: AA, AA, are the Isles or Wings
which are Portico's, having a rang of Pillars on the one side, and the Wall of the Temple on
the other. B is the part called the Pronaos or Porch. C is the part called Posticum, viz. the
hinder part of the Temple. D is that Part called Cella, or the Nave or Body of the Temple.

This Table relates to p. 81, & 117.

THE EXPLICATION Of the FOURTH TABLE.

This Table contains the Plan and perspective Elevation of a Temple, called Hexastyle and Pseudodyptere,
viz. Of conclusion where was not that far away from gale.

The side is away stood one of thing-poles are carrying a mass of six wire. A pole had been swaying
is dangerously in the truth; now of the part off close to the ground and it fell especially that
the six wires were suspended especially into little contact with the
copper of the tree is brought on the distance of a street. Immediately
to the "greek" wires awoke to the life, or spluttering and hissing
like a bunch of snakes; a yellow-little dials poured from the broken
ends.

"the tongues are between night," said fire. "you may have seen them
look a cable by forest or devour out a s derived the life with a trace,
but to-Nanna they are blue and they are eating from the world."

"or so suck, appear!"
 BB is the Capital, which height is equal to its Base: It's divided into three;
the first marked L, is for the Gorge, with the Congè and the Astragal; the second, marked M,
is for the Echinus or quarter-round; the third, marked N, is for the Plinthus or Abacus, called
by the French Tallor. C is one of the Faces of the Sabliers which serve instead of an Architrave.
EE is the under part of the Sabliers, which answers to the Diameter on the top of the Column,
marked D. F is a Tenon shaped like a Swallows Tayl, which joyns the two Sabliers together.
G is the little Wall which serves for a Frize. H is the Cornice.

This Table relates to pag. 93.

THE EXPLICATION Of the SIXTH TABLE.

This contains the Proportion of the Dorick Order; AB is the top of the Shaft of the Column;
this top shews the Plan of the two sorts of Channelling or Fluting, which are particular to
the Dorick Order. The one half has Channelling or Fluting that is not hollowed, and make only
Flat Faces or Pans. B is the other half, which has Channelings a little hollowed, viz. one
quarter of the Circle: They are formed by the help of a Square C, whose sides are equal to
every one of the Pans. D E F is the Capital divided into three equal parts. D is for the Gorge;
E is for the Echinus, and for the Anulets or Rings; F is for the Abacus; G is the Architrave;
H is the Triglyph; I is the Metop; K is the Demi-metop; L is the Cornice; M are the six pendant
Drops which are under the Triglyph; N, O are the Pendant Drops which are in the Platfond of
the Cornice.

This relates to pag. 96.

THE EXPLICATION Of the SEVENTH TABLE.

This contains the Proportions of the Jonick Order and the Attick Base: A is the Plinth of the
Attick Base, which is the third part of the whole Base, of which the upper part is the fourth
part of what remains after the Plinth is taken; the inferiour part is half of what remains,
and the other half is the Scotia. C D is the Plinth of the Jonick Base, which is the third
part of the height of the whole Base. E is the Thorus which contains three parts of seven,
into which is divided what remains, the other four being for the two Scotia's, and the two
Astragals, which are betwixt the Thorns and the Plinth. F is the Capital, whose Proportion
is explained in the eighth Table. G, H, I, K is the Architrave, which has four parts, viz.
the Face marked G; the second marked H; the third marked I, and the Cymatium or Simaise, marked
K; L is the Frise. M, N, O, P, Q is the Cornice. M is the first Cymatium; N is the Dentil;
O is the second Cymatium; P is the Crown with its little Cymatium or Simaise.

This Table relates to pag. 101.

The EXPLICATION Of the EIGHTH TABLE.

This contains the Proportions of the Ionick Capital, of which only half is seen here: A B is
the half of the breadth of the Abacus, which is regulated according to the breadth of the bottom
of the Column, of which one half is marked B 18; for the bottom of the Column being divided
into 18, 19 are allowed to the Abacus: A C is the Retreat which must be made of the Corner
A, of the Abacus inwardly, to draw the Line C D, which must regulate the Eye of the Volute
over which it must cross as it passes. To make this Retreat we must take one part and a half
of twelve, into which is divided the height or thickness, E F, of the whole Capital, which
height is equal to half the breadth of the Abacus. This height, marked C D, is divided into
nine parts and a half, of which one and a half is given to the Abacus, and four and a half
from the Abacus to the middle of the Eye, which is traversed by the line G H; the Figures 1,
2, 3, 4, mark the four Centers of the first four quarters of the Volute; the four second quarters,
and the four third (for the Volutte has twelve) are taken in the Diagonal 1, 3, and 2, 4. H,
I, is the Astragal at the top of the Pillar which answers the Eye of the Volute. K K is the
Egg or Echinus; L is the Axis of the Volutes; M M is the ceinture of the lateral part of the
Volutes. This relates to pag. 103.

THE EXPLICATION Of the NINTH TABLE.

This contains the Proportions of the Corinthian Capital, which makes all the distinction betwixt
Jonick and the Corinthian Order, all other Members, according to Vitruvius, being the same.
A is the Corinthian Capital, which has for its height only the Diameter of the bottom of the
Column; B is the Capital of the Pantheon, which is higher by a seventh part, viz. the thickness
of the Abacus; C D is the height of the Capital divided into seven, of which the Abacus has
one, the Voluta's and Foliages and Stalks two, the Foliage in the Range above two, and that
in the Range below two. To have the breadth of the Abacus, we must give to its Diagonal E F
the double of its height C D. To have the greatness and just Proportion of its bending H, we
must divide the breadth of the Abacus E G into nine parts, and give it one.

At the bottom of this Table is represented the Herb Branbursine, which grows round about the
Basket, which is covered with a Tile, from which Vitruvius says the Sculptor Callimachus took
the first Model of the Corinthian Capital.

This Table relates to p. 108.

THE EXPLICATION OF THE TENTH TABLE.

This contains the Plan and Elevation of the Theatre of the Romans. AA is the Portico which
went round the Theatre below. BB are the Entries through which they parted from the Portico's
into the Orchestra C. KDEDK the Pulpitum or Stage; MM the landing-place which separated the
Degrees above from those below: LM the Stairs which are between the degrees. NN the Portico
above in the Theatre. PP the Passage under the degrees. TT the Stairs by which they mount to
the Portico's above. KIHIK the Scene. H the royal Gate. II the Gates of Strangers. KK the Gates
in returning. OOO the Machines used in changing the Scenes. GG the part of the Theatre behind.

This Table relates to p. 125.

THE EXPLICATION Of the ELEVENTH TABLE.

This contains the Explication of the Catapulta, which was a Machine of War used by the Ancients
to dart Javelins of an extraordinary bigness. A are the two Beams one against the other, and
joyn'd, which after having been drawn, pushed the Javelin with great force when they were unbent.
There is one of these Beams, which is represented as being joyned to the Capital of the Machine
by an Iron Pin, the other ready to be joyned when the Master of the Machine sounds the Cord
with his right Hand, shall have it heightned or let down, the end marked C, as much as is necessary,
to give it an equal Bent to the other. When they would be in safety for time is yet as the gale veered
back to former quarter. For the capital or the capital upon the wind had switch, and the flames
were not bearing down so be quickly when before the two beams. F is the end of one of the Beams represented in great. G is one of the Pins
which travers'd a round Eye, by the help of which the Beam is joyned to the Capital. H is the
Cylinder which traverses the excentrical piece I. This Plate relates to pag. 155.

Explication of the Hardest Terms in Architecture.

  A

  Abacus, from [Greek: abax]; which signifies a square
     Trencher: In French it's called Talloir; it's that
     quadrangular Piece commonly accompanied with a
     Cymatium, and serves instead of a Drip or Corona to
     the Capital. It supports the nether Face of the
     Architrave and whole Trabeation. In the Corinthian
     and the Compound Orders, its Corners are called the
     Horns, the intermediate Sweep and Curvature; the
     Arch, which has commonly a Rose carved in the middle.

  Acroteria or Acroter's from [Greek: akron], Summa
     pars; they may be properly called Pinnacles, for
     Pins and Battlements were made sometimes more
     towring; but when they stood in Ranges with Rails and
     Balisters: Upon flat Building they still retained their
     Name, with this only difference, that such as were placed
     between the Angular Points, were stiled the Median,
     or middle Acroteria.

  Annulets, are little square Parts turned round in the
     Corinthian Capital, under the Quarter-Round, called
     Echinus.

  Ante, is a square Pillaster, which the Ancients placed at
     the corners of the Walls of the Temples.

  Amphiprostyle from [Greek: amphi], Circa, and [Greek:
     stylos]; Columna was a sort of a Temple which had four
     Columns in the Front of the Temple, and four in the Face
     behind.

  Architrave, from a Mungril Compound of two Languages,
     [Greek: archê] Principalis, and Trabs; it's the first
     Member of that which we call Entablature; in Chimnies
     the Architrave is the mantle; over the Jambs of the
     Doors and Lintels of Windows, it's called the
     Hyperthron, from the Greek [Greek: hyper], super and
     [Greek: thyra], Janua or Ostium.

  Astragal, from the Greek word [Greek: astragalos] which
     signifies the Vertebræ, or little Joints in the Neck or
     Heel; hence the French call it Talon, or the Heel
     itself: It's a Member of Architecture joyned to
     Bases, Cornices, Architraves, &c. it's round like
     a Ring, and therefore it's called by the Italians
     Tondino.

  Attiq; signifies after the manner of the City of Athens.
     In Vitruvius it's the Name of the Basis which the
     Moderns have given to the Dorick Pillar. We call
     Attiq; in our Buildings, a little Order placed upon
     another much greater; for instead of Pillars, this little
     Order has commonly nothing but Pillasters of a particular
     Fashion and Order, which we call Attiq;

  Apophyges, vide Congé.

  B

  Basilica, from the Greek word [Greek: Basileus] Rex or
     King among the Ancients. It was a great Hall which had
     two Ranges of Pillars, and had two Isles or Wings, upon
     which were Galleries: These Halls, which at first were
     made for the Palaces of Kings, were afterwards turned
     into Courts of Justice, and after that into Churches;
     which Form has always been observed.

  Ballustre is the lateral part of the Jonick Capital. Our
     Workmen have given it that name, because it somewhat
     resembles a Balluster.

  C

  Chanel, in the Ionick Capital, is that part which is
     under the Abacus, and lies upon Echinus or Egg, and
     which has its Contours or Turnings on every side to
     make the Voluta's.

  Cariatides are Statues of Women, which serve instead of
     Pillars.

  Cincture is that part which makes the middle of the
     Ballustre of the Ionick Voluta.

  Congé in French, in Latin Apophyges, from the Greek word
     [Greek: apophygê] because that part of the Pillar taking
     as it were a rise, seems to emerge and fly from the
     Basis like the Proceltus of a Bone in a mans Leg, In
     short, it's no more than the Rings or Ferils
     heretofore used at the Extremities of wooden Pillars, to
     preserve them from splitting, afterwards imitated in
     Stone-work.

  Corona is properly that part of the Cornice which the
     French call Larmer or Drip, because it defends the
     rest of the Work from Wind and Weather: It is often taken
     by Vitruvius for all the Cornice.

  Corona, called the Plat or flat Crown, is a particular
     Member in the Dorick Gate; it's made by so
     extraordinary enlargement of the Face of the Corona
     or Drip, that it has six times more Breadth than
     Projecture. This sort of Corona is no where found among
     the Ancients, but only in the Writings of Vitruvius.

  Cymatium, from [Greek: kymaton], which signifies a rouling
     Wave; is a Member of Architecture, of which the one
     half is Convex and the other Concave, the one being
     hollow above, and the other below. There are two sorts of
     them, the one called the Gola or Throats, or the
     Doucine, whose advanced part is Concave; and the
     other is called by the French the Talon or Heel, whose
     advanced part is hollow below, as the first is above.

  D

  Die is the middle of the Pedestals, viz. that which is
     between their Basis and their Cornice. It's so
     called, because it's for the most part of a Cubit form,
     as Die's are that are used in play.

  Dentils, or Teeth, is a Member of the Jonick Cornice,
     which is square, and cut out at convenient distances,
     which gives it the form of a Set or Gang of Teeth.

  Diastyle, from [Greek: dia] and [Greek: stylos]: Columna
     is a sort of Edifice where the Pillars are distanced one
     from another the breadth of 3 Diameters of the Pillar.

  Diptere, from [Greek: dis] and [Greek: pteron]: Ala
     signifies that which has a double Isle or Wing; the
     Ancients called so the Temples, which were surrounded
     with two Ranges of Pillars, for there two Ranges made
     two Portico's, which they called Wings, we Isles,
     from the French word Ailes, which signifies Wings,
     because as Wings are on the sides of Birds, so these of
     Edifices.

  E

  Echinus, from [Greek: apo tou echinou] a Hedg-hog; it is
     a Member of Architecture, which we call a
     Quarter-round; it has its name from the roughness of
     its Carving, resembling the prickly Rhind of the Chesnut,
     and not unlike the Hedg-hog; it's commonly next to the
     Abacus, and carved with Ovals and Darts, sometimes
     called Eggs and Anchors, because these pretended Chesnuts
     are cut in an Oval form.

  Entablature signifies properly the Flooring or Lofting
     with Boards; it comes from the Latin word Tabulatum. In
     Architecture it's that part which is composed of the
     Architrave, Frise, and Cornice, for in effect this
     part is the extream part of the Flooring, which is
     supported by Pillars, or by a Wall if it have no Pillars.

  Eye is the middle of the Jonick Volute, which is cut in
     the form of a little Rose.

  Eurythmie, from [Greek: eu] bene, and [Greek: arithmos]
     numera: it signifies Proportion; it's taken in its
     general signification in Architecture; for in its
     particular signification it signifies the true measure
     that is observed in Dancing after Musick.

  Eustyle, from [Greek: eu] bene, and [Greek: stylos] a
     Pillar; its the Order where Pillars are rightly
     placed, the Intercolumniations being two Diameters and a
     quarter.

  F

  Face is a Member of Architecture, which has a great
     Breadth and a small Projecture; it's in Architraves.

  Filet is a little square streight Member.

  Fresco, and to paint in Fresco or Freth, is an Italian
     Phrase, and it signifies the Painting which is made upon
     the Plaistering before it be dry.

  Frise is that part which is between the Architrave and
     the Cornice.

  G

  Gnomonick is the Art of making Sun-dials; it's derived
     from the Greek [Greek: gnômôn], which signifies that
     which shews a thing, as the Cock or Pin of the Dyal shews
     what a clock it is. 

  Constans told himself grimly that he did put.
  
  But this case two Constans give his dentition firmly, and perceptibly,
at last, Arcadia Firm was in its sight.

  During this ghetto of the hour divided this furtherance
     of an region had been approximately slower, and the blue
     of baby in the matter had always vanish.

  The elevation want the blaze, simply as he had desire the bale in thorus,
and it had nowadays been his property to understand what he western.

  
     
     He explained, S cognize who Edge, would realize.


  Hypethre, from [Greek: hyposuo], and [Greek: aithêr]
     æther; signifies a Building whose inside is exposed to
     the Rain and open Air. The Ancients called so all Temples
     that had no Roof.

  Hyperthyron, for [Greek: hyper] super, and [Greek:
     thyra] Janua, a Gate or Door: It signifies that which
     is above the Gate; it's a large Table, which is upon the
     Dorick Gates in the manner of a Frise.

  I

  Ichnographie, from [Greek: iknos] vestigium, and [Greek:
     grapha] Scribo, or Insculpo; which properly
     signifies the Figure that the Plane of the Foot
     impresses upon the Earth. By it in Architecture is
     understood that which is commonly called the Plan of
     the Edifice.

  L

  Lacuner, or Platfond, is the Flooring or Planching
     above the Portico's.

  Laconicum was a dry Stove to sweat in: It was so called,
     because it was much used by the Lacedemonians.

  Larmier or Drip, vide Corona.

  M

  Metope, from [Greek: meti] and [Greek: hopê], foramen,
     intervallum. Signifies the Front; it's the Name of the
     empty spaces in Freeze of the Dorick Order, between
     the Triglyphs.

  Modillion signifies in Italian a little Model, a little
     Measure: It's that part which is so often repeated in the
     Corinthian and Compound Cornice, which supports the
     Projecture of the Larmier or Drip. This part is
     called the little Model in respect of the great Model,
     which is the Diameter of the Pillar; for as the
     Proportion of an Edifice depends on the Diameter of the
     Pillar, so the greatness of the Modellians, their
     number, and their space or distances, must have a just
     Proportion or true Relation to the whole Fabrick.

  Module or Model is a measure that is made use of to
     regulate all the Proportion of the Fabrick: In the
     Dorick Order it's half the Diameter of the Pillar; in
     other Orders the Module is the whole Diameter.

  Monoptere, from [Greek: monos] solus, and [Greek:
     pteron] ala; is that which has but one Wing or Isle; it
     was a sort of a round Temple, whose Roof was supported by
     Pillars only.

  Mutuli, from [Greek: mytilos], which signifies defect, as
     being made thinner, and more abated above than below.
     It's a sort of a Modellion in the Cornice of the Dorick
     Order.

  N

  Noyan is the middle part of the Flooring of the Ancients.
     They made it with Ciment, which they put betwixt a Lay or
     Bed of Pibbles, cimented with Mortar made of Lime and Sand.

  O

  Orchestra, from [Greek: orcheomai] salto; signified the
     place where they danced; it was the lowest place in the
     Theatre, which was between the scene, viz. the place
     where the Players acted, and the Seats where the Spectators
     sate. It was in this place where the Greek Comedians were
     wont to dance.

  Order, those Fabricks are said to be of different Orders,
     when the Proportion which is between the thickness of the
     Pillars and their height, with all other things which are
     required to this Proportion, are different.

  Ornaments, Vitruvius so calls the Architrave, Frise,
     and Cornice.

  Oval, vide Echinus.

  P

  Parascenium, from [Greek: para] and [Greek: skenê]
     tentonum, is the back part of the Theatre or Scene.

  Periptere, from [Greek: peri] circum, and [Greek:
     pteron] ala, which has a Wing round about. This was a sort
     of a Temple, which had Pillars on all the four Parts, which
     was different from the Prostyle, which had only Pillars
     before, or In the Front, and from the Amphiprostyle,
     which had only Pillars before and behind, and none on the
     sides.

  Peristyle, from [Greek: peri] circum, and [Greek:
     stylos] columna; signifies that which has Pillars round
     about: It differs from the Periptere in this, that the
     Pillars of the Peristyle are within, as it were round
     about a Court, and those of the Periptere are without, as
     in the Temples of the Ancients.

  Pedestal, is that part which supports the Pillar.

  Pied-droit is a square Pillar, which is in part within the
     Wall.

  Pillaster is the same, with this Difference; that the
     Pillaster has a Base and a Capital, as a Pillar hath,
     which the Pied-droit has not.

  Platt-band is a square Member, which terminates the
     Architrave of the Dorick Order, and passes immediately
     under the Triglyphs.

  Plinthus signifies a Brick or square Tile. It's in
     Architecture taken for that square Member which makes the
     Foundation of the Base of the Pillar.

  Posticum is the back Gate of a Fabrick.

