The careful general who has completed his disposition without one discoverable flaw, who has
foreseen all emergencies, and anticipated every possible combination, may await the action
with a certain moral confidence of success.  But he would be a man of no human fibre, were
he not to feel some disquiet in his inmost soul when he gets upon horseback with his enemy
in sight, and listens for the boom of the first gun.  Not very different, except for the absence
of a like confidence in the completeness of their dispositions, were the emotions of the masters
who manned the platform of Borth Station, when the gray afternoon of Tuesday, April 4th, drew
sombrely towards its close.  The station was crowded with spectators from Aberystwith and Borth
itself, curious to watch the entry of the boys.  Expectation was stimulated by the arrival
of a train, which set all the crowd on tip-toe, and then swept through the station--a mere
goods train.  Half an hour's longer waiting, and the right train drew up, and discharged Uppingham
School on the remote Welsh platform.  It struck a spark of home feeling in the midst of the
lonely landscape, and the chill of strange surroundings, to see well-known faces at the windows,
and to meet the grasp of familiar hands.  But there was no time for sentiment that stirring
evening.  The station was cleared with all speed of boys and spectators, the former turning
in to tea at those endless tables, the latter strolling away to carry home their first impressions
of their invaders.  Then one group of masters and servants set to work to sort the luggage
which cumbered the platform, while others received it at the hotel door, and distributed it
to the various billets.  Light was scant, hands were not too numerous, and the work was not
done without some confusion.  But it was done; and the tired workers went to their beds, thankful
for what was finished, and full of good hopes for the work which was yet to be begun.

And the boys--how did they feel?  As they stepped out from the railway carriage into those
bare, vasty corridors and curtainless dormitories, did some little sense of desolateness in
the new prospect temper its excitement?  Did some homesickness arise in the exile as he pondered
on the retirement and comfort of the "house" at Uppingham, and his individual ownership of
the separate cubicle, and the study which was "his castle?"  He was a unit now, not of a household,
but of a camp. Small blame to him if life seemed to have lost its landmarks, and things round
him to be "all nohow," as he sat down in some bare hall upon a schoolfellow's book-box (wondering
whether he should ever see his own), to while away with a story-book the listless interval
before bed-time, under the niggard light of a smoking lamp, or a candle flickering in the draught.
What exactly he felt or thought, however, we do not pretend to know.  We only know that there
was not one of them but felt proud to be out campaigning with his school, and would have counted
"ten years of peaceful life" not more than worth his share in that honourable venture.

There was no work for them next morning (their masters were busy enough providing for the physical
needs of the colony), and they were free to explore their new country, to ramble up the headlands
or along the margin of the marsh.  The arrivals of last night were but the first instalment
of the school, about half the number.  The same train brought in a new freight this evening,
and the scene on the platform was similar, but more tranquil.  By a special train after midnight
came in a few more from the most distant homes, and the muster was complete.  The number, two
hundred and ninety, fell but slightly below the full complement of the school. Putting out
of account the names of those who would in any case have left the school that Easter, no more
than three, we believe, failed to follow us down to Borth.  So unanimous an adhesion of the
school to its leaders no one had been sanguine enough to reckon on.  It increased no doubt
at the moment the difficulties of making provision, but withal it made the task better worth
the effort.

Next morning the school was called together, and the Headmaster addressed them, feeling, perhaps,
somewhat like a general publishing a manifesto to his troops before a campaign.  It was a great
experiment, he said, in which they were sharing; let them do their best to make the result
a happy one for themselves, and for the people among whom they had come. They were "making
history," for this experience was a wholly new one, which might not impossibly prove helpful
some day to others in like circumstances.

It is pleasant to record that the appeal was not wasted.

At the dinner-hour to-day, the full numbers being now on the spot, the resources of the commissariat
were put to the test.  Some anxiety was relieved when the supply proved sufficient; it would
have been small cause for reproach if the caterers had failed in their estimate on the first
experiment.  But of the commissariat we shall say more presently.

The secondary necessities of life, fire and light, were not forthcoming with quite the same
promptness.  There was a twilight period in many houses before lamps were furnished in sufficient
abundance.  The place of fuel was supplied by the genial weather of the first week; and perhaps
few were aware of what we were doing without.  Next week the east winds and the coal arrived
together.

The hotel laundry found the task it had undertaken beyond its strength. No wonder.  Three hundred
sets of articles de linge reach a figure of which our hosts had hardly grasped the significance.
We are sometimes told that Gaels and Cymry cannot count.  At any rate, when the bales of linen
came pouring in upon them, heaping every table and piling all the floor, and still flowing
in faster than room could be found, the laundresses, brave workers though they were, felt that
the game was lost:

   They stand in pause where they should first begin,
   And all neglect.

One poor nymph was discovered by a compassionate visitor dissolved in tears over her wash-tub.
Such misery could not be permitted; and we transferred half the task at once to the laundries
of Aberystwith.

On the afternoon of this day took place the distribution of "studies." That is to say, some
sixty or eighty boys (a number more than doubled afterwards), in order to relieve the pressure
on our sitting-rooms, were billeted upon some of the village people, who let their rooms for
the purpose.  From two to six boys were assigned to each room according to its capacity.  We
shall speak again of these studies.  Here we will only pause to thank our good landladies for
the intrepidity with which they threw their doors open to the invasion, the more so as they
mostly claimed to belong to the category of "poor widows"--a qualification upon which they
were disposed to set a price in arranging their charges.  Their daring proved no indiscretion.
The writer, who has the honour of knowing them all, was the depositary of many and emphatic
testimonies on their part to the cordial relations between them and "the children."  This endearing
term was exchanged for another by one good old lady, who appealed to him against the "very
wicked boys," whom she charged with having "foolished" her.  The complication traced to ignorance
of one another's speech (the boys spoke no Welsh, and she would have done more wisely to speak
no English), and a modus vivendi was easily restored. Poor soul! she took a pathetic farewell
of them when their sojourn ended: "They must forgive her for having a quick temper; she had
had much trouble; her husband and four sons had gone down at sea."

On Friday came a piece of cheering news.  Some sympathisers were intending to appeal to parents
of boys in the school for subscriptions to a fund, which should help to defray the expense
incurred by the masters in moving and resettling the school.  The appeal met with a liberal
response in many quarters; a large sum was raised, though from a number of subscribers smaller
than the promoters of the fund expected.  Men, who were feeling the double pressure at once
of keen and novel cares, and of an outlay already large, which no one could see to the end
of, will not forget that well-timed succour.  Not least will it be remembered as a "material
guarantee" that the subscribers believed the cause they aided to be worth a costly effort to save.

The week closed with an old scene on a new stage--a football match on Sir Pryse's field at
Bow Street.  It was the last of the house-matches, which had been interrupted at Uppingham
to be played out here.  The sight of the school swarming into the railway carriages, which
carried us to the four-mile-distant ground, and then the mimic war of the red and white jerseys
contrasting the gray Gogerddan woodlands which overhang the meadow, and the shouts of the English
boys blending with the excited but unintelligible cries of the Welsh rustic children, who were
rapt spectators of the game, brought home to us the piquant contrast between our unchanged
school habits and the novelty of their framework.

The weather of this first week was dry and genial; and it had no pleasanter moments than those
spent on the beach at sunset, whither the school flocked down after tea for half an hour's
leisure in the after- glow.  There is plenty of amusement for them on this broad reach of sand
and shingle.  Some are groping for shells or for pebbles, which the lapidary will transform
for a trifle into dazzling jewels; others are playing ducks and drakes on the waves, or entertaining
themselves like Prospero's elves,

   That on the sands, with printless feet,
   Do chase the ebbing Neptune, and do fly him
   When he comes back again.

More pensive spirits saunter up and down the grassy terrace which overlooks the beach, and
watch the shifting line of dark figures seen against the white wall of the breaker, or note
the fugitive tints on the dimpling surface of the water, or the wet margin of the tide.  A
group of villagers is clustered round the water-fountain a few yards away; the children chatter
about us as they fill their pitchers; and the old women, creeping homewards, cast a glance
under their bonnets at the boys, and exchange muttered comments with their gossips.  Soon the
cliffs of the southern headland grow duskier and more remote; the sea fades to a cold uniform
gray; the colours of the brown twilight marsh and the violet hills are lost in one another;
and so, with a refreshing breath of idyllic peacefulness, the stirring week came to an end.
"Its evening closed on a quiet scene of school routine, as if doubt and risk, turmoil and confusion
and fear, weary head and weary hand, had not been known in the place.  The wrestling-match
against time was over, and happy dreams came down on Uppingham by the Sea."

CHAPTER V.--THE NEW COUNTRY.

The primitive man, after he has satisfied the claims of appetite, stitched his skin-mantle,
and thatched a hut, may begin to spare time for reflection on the quality and flavour of the
prey he has eaten, or the picturesqueness of his cabin.  Till then his estimate of things is
quantitative.  He asks not of what sort his food is, but whether there is enough of it, and
regards less the cut of his coat than its thickness.

The analogy of our circumstances must be our excuse for postponing so long a description of
our new settlement, its physical surroundings, and the complexion of our domestic and social
life.  Not in truth that we had returned to barbarism: but who could dilate on the beauty of
mountain scenery, in sight of which he was perhaps to starve; who would criticise the pattern
of his dinner-service, or be fastidious in carpets and wall- paper, before he could reckon
upon dinner, or call shelter his own?

But a week is over, and we have all settled into our berths.  The boys have found that there
will be dinner every day; the masters that no one will have to pitch his tent on a sand-dune,
or spread a straw litter in a bathing-machine.  The level of comfort was, of course, not uniform.
How should it be?  Probably there is a choice of corners in a workhouse or casual-ward.  Some
of our party tasted the painful pleasures of the poor in the scant accommodation and naked
simplicity of cottage lodgings.  It was long after our arrival that we discovered a valued
friend still sitting on the corner of his packing-case, and brewing his coffee on a washhand-stand.
The fire smoked all day; but this vice in the apartment was neutralised by a broken window.
Yet he should be quite happy, he said, if he could get a glazier and a sweep (like smoke and
draught, one would not do without the other), a bolster, an occasional clean towel, and a little
warm water in the morning.

Those who had brought a family with them into camp were more seriously troubled with the cares
of providing quarters, and pondered regretfully on the peace and roominess of home.  Still
as we are leaving no one houseless or dinnerless, we may turn aside to describe at more leisure
the place we lived in and the manner of our life.

The stage on which our little history was enacted is a maritime plain of irregular semicircular
shape, with a sea-front of five miles, and a depth inland of from two to three miles.  This
plain, a dead level stretch of peat, of which part is coming under cultivation, while part
is still marsh, is surrounded by a ring of hills, which rise in successive well- defined ranges
of increasing height, till they culminate in the summits of Cader Idris on one side and Plinlimmon
on the other.

The River Dovey, which cleaves the circle of mountains, flows in a broad estuary along the
base of the northward hills, under which, at the mouths of the estuary, lies the little port
of Aberdovey.  At the other end of the arc formed by the coastline, close under the slopes
of the promontory which closes the plain at its north-west corner, stands the village of Borth,
three-quarters of a mile of straggling dwellings, which vary in scale and character from the
primitive mud-cabin of the squatter to the stately hotel which formed the headquarters of the
school.  The little town is irregular even to quaintness, without being picturesque.  Its houses
are not grouped according to size and character, but dropped as it were anyhow, in chance collocations,
tall and low, thatched and slated together.  Two or three gigantesque meeting-houses, featureless
and sombre, domineer over the roofs around them.  One or two others of a less puritan design,
and not out of character with the church on a knoll a furlong off, compensate their severer
rivals.  The shape of the village is determined by the narrow ridge of terra firma, the mere
heaping of the tides, between the quaking marsh and the encroaching sea.  The nidus of the
present settlement is the tiny hamlet of Old Borth, perched on a spur of the promontory, and
well out of reach of flood tides.  We are not sure that the mother may not outlive her colony,
unless substantial measures are taken to guard against another 30th of January.  Near Old Borth,
through a gap in the hills, comes the River Lery, a trout-stream known to our anglers, thanks
again to Sir Pryse who owns it.  It races bubbling round the furze-clad knoll, whose Welsh
name is translated Otter's Island, on which stands the church, and then is silenced in a blank
straight-cut channel, which conveys it through the marsh into the estuary at Ynyslas.  Up the
gorge of the Lery runs the railway, which carried us so often past the massive church and steep
pine-grown graveyard of Langfihangel-geneur-glyn, and across the broad meadows of Bow Street,
to the civilisation of Aberystwith.  For Aberystwith was our Capua, and used to draw large
parties on many a blank afternoon for marketing or amusement.

Then there was the beach, four miles of it, from the rocks of Borth Head, where the waves could
be watched breaking on the seaweed-covered reef, and sending up columns of white spray against
the black face of the cliffs, away to the yellow sand dunes near the Dovey's mouth, and the
reaches of wet sands where we noted on summer days "the landscape winking through the heat,"
almost with the effect of a mirage.  These sands, firm and sound under foot, were a famous
walking-ground at all times; but they changed their character very much with the seasons; at
one time retreating and laying bare a beach of shingle under the pebble ridge; at another,
swinging back to cover them up again.  In the former state of the shore a suggestive phenomenon
might be observed.  At low-water mark there appeared certain dark shapeless lumps, which might
be taken for rocks at a distance, but were in fact the roots and stumps of a submerged pine-forest.
Remains of the same forest are found in the marsh.  Wood can be cut from the buried trunks,
looking as fresh in fibre as if the tree still grew.  Here is the verification of the legend
(or is it, perhaps, the suggestion of it?) which records the fate of the Lost Lowland Hundred.
Once on a time (the Cymric bards answer for it), a flourishing tract of country stretched at
the foot of the hills which are now washed by the tides of Cardigan Bay.  The fishermen of
Borth, as they creep past the headlands in their fishing-smacks, have seen deep down in the
clear waters, the firmly-cemented stones of a causeway, which must once have traversed the
plain, and the line of which may be not indistinctly descried stretching far out to seaward
from the mouth of a little combe.  It is true that geologists whom we have consulted ridicule
the fancy of masonry offering such resistance to the tides, and explain it away as a pebble-ridge
built up by the action of currents.  And perhaps we might mention in this connection, that
one of our party, on the first view, was half persuaded he had seen a sea-serpent.  Well, this
prosperous country, defended against the sea by embankments, was during the heroic age of Wales
laid under water by the opening of the sluices in a drunken frolic.  A fragment of it, the
marsh between the pebble-ridge of Borth and the hills, would seem to have been recovered; but
it enjoys a precarious safety, and even within our experience the sea gave a meaning threat
of claiming his own again.  But that is a story which must be told in its own place.

Such then were the geographical details of the spot in which we had settled, and they made
up a landscape, which, if it can be more than rivalled in other parts of the Principality,
has yet a characteristic and impressive beauty.  The following extract may serve, for lack
of a better rendering, to describe how the scene looked to the eyes of someone who watched
it on a June afternoon from the grassy slopes of Borth Head:

   My eyes run on with the tide which drifts inland up the estuary, and,
   farther than vision can really follow, track the march of its glancing
   ripples, as they swim on past shoal and sand-dune and morass up to the
   dewy gates of the Spring, in among green-clad river meadows and crisp
   close-skirted woodlands which the salt breath of sea-winds restrains
   from a richer luxuriance, on past springing knolls plumed with dark
   firs, and dimpling valleys mellow with the contrasted gold of the
   oak's young leafage.  Above these, hills moulded on a grander scale
   heave up their broad shoulders to the sunlight, which is reflected in
   pale but tender hues of blue or violet or rose from their bare rock
   masses, or the slopes hardly less bare, which are swept by great
   winds, and browsed yet closer by climbing mountain sheep.  At this and
   the other point the bosses of the hills are lighted with the sparkle
   of gorse-thickets, or dusky with heather not yet kindled into bloom.
   Lower down there are belts of woodland, fencing off the pastures which
   strew the lowest terraces of the mountains from the barren wastes
   above them, and these pastures are brightly flecked with patches of
   white-walled homesteads down to the brown edge of the marsh.  And so,
   ridge after ridge, the hills enclose the scene in a half-circle, of
   which this breezy headland, our "specular mount," is an extreme horn.
   But what the eye reposes on at last is the broad floor of marsh-land
   between mountain and sea.  A broad smooth floor, which would be vacant
   and dull enough had not Nature taken thought to drape its formlessness
   the more lovingly and richly.  She has unrolled on it a carpet of
   various and solemn-tinted stuffs, where pale breadths of rusted bents
   sometimes mellow into strips of verdurous pasture, sometimes deepen
   into belts of embrowned peat-beds, sometimes take a yellower
   barrenness in parched flats, still briny and unreclaimed, and shaggy
   with bristling reeds.  It is a wilderness, but not unrelieved with
   here and there an oasis, where, like islands left high and dry in a
   deserted ocean bed, one and another rocky knoll lift up above the
   waste flats around them some acres of sweet grass, or a broad field of
   flowering mustard, shining with a splendour as of cloth of gold, and
   fringed with a loop or two of silver braid by the river winding at the
   base.  There is animate life, too, sprinkled not stintedly over its
   surface, not only of visitant sea-fowl from the shore, or solitude-
   loving creatures native to the place--plover and duck and long-winged
   herons, but also of cattle and horses grazing on the cultivated edges
   of the marsh, which make us look for the homes of their human masters
   at no great distance.  Why there they are, lying overlooked at our
   feet all the while, a straggle of lowly white-roofed dwellings
   clinging to the long pebble ridge like barnacles on a rock, breathing
   a thin smoke from their scattered chimneys, whence the blessed smell
   of peat-fires is wafted through the dry air to our nostrils.  But one
   great house I notice with a crowd about its door-steps, and a flag
   waving over them a device I have somewhere seen before, where the
   kitchen chimney smokes with a most hospitable volume; guests must be
   plenty there.  Yes; and if further signs of life be needed, you may
   listen to the puff of a farmer's steam-engine planted in the swamp,
   and see the glitter of the steel ropes, with which it draws its
   ploughshares, resistless as fate, through the oozy fallows.  Well, if
   it is come to this, the farmers and their engines will soon civilise
   away the beauty of this romantic wild.  But shall we complain?  If
   they have begun to drain these intractable marshes, then there is a
   chance for other places, where the interest on the cost of drainage
   will be less problematical than here.

CHAPTER VI.--MAKESHIFTS.

   [Greek text].

From our chapter on the geographical features of our settlement we pass on to describe how
the settlers were housed and organised.

If a school be an institution for teaching purposes, its school-room and class-rooms should
be the most essential portion of its plant.  Without discussing the adequacy of the definition,
we will begin with these.  We were not ill provided; with an exception or two, the rooms appropriated
for class-rooms answered the purpose well.  Some of them were spacious; the rest were large
enough for the wants of the classes, limited to an average of twenty.  Nor would a Government
Inspector have justly measured this adequacy by the "cubic capacity," if he failed to take
into account the exhilarating five minutes' breathing time upon the beach, at eleven o'clock.
There was a rare pleasure in those moments of escape from Greek verbs to the sparkle of the
tide and the scent of the sea breeze.

What Germans call the "real" subjects, were also provided for.  The modern languages were taught
mostly in the class-rooms of the classical masters.  Music took up her quarters in several
scattered dwellings. Wales is the home of song, and our musicians were very welcome to make
the cottage walls resound to violin or key-board.  We remember well the affectionate reverence
with which one aged custodian spoke of the "pianass" she was proud to house; she cherished
them as if they had been tame elephants.  Several concerts were given during our stay--but
in the Assembly Rooms of Aberystwith; our wooden school-room was found, on the first experiment,
unfit for the purpose, from the want of resonance.  The makeshift gymnasium and carpentery,
in the stables and coach-house, have been mentioned before.  If among "real studies" we may
include the cricket, this was, as we saw, well cared for; while the instructor in swimming
had nothing to complain of, with four miles of good beach, and the Irish Channel before him.

If the accommodation during school hours was adequate, it was less easy to find elbow-room
for the boys at other times.  It was well enough from May to August under the ample roof of
blue summer weather; but in the rainy season (and at Borth, as elsewhere, that winter was a
wet one) we should have been sorely cramped but for relief afforded by the "studies" noticed
in a previous chapter.  It is time we should describe them. Studies they were not, in the sense
in which the word is understood at Uppingham, where a school law declares that "a boy's study
is his castle," and confers upon him what Aristotle calls the "unspeakable" delight of the
"sense of private property."  At Borth this could not be. In very rare cases was a room the
one and indivisible belonging of a single owner; often as many as six shared the table and
fireplace.  Some of these tenements had at least the less solid merit of looking picturesque.
Peeping into a Welsh interior, with its stone kitchen-floor, polished wainscoting, and oak
furniture, its walls hung with German prints of imaginative battle-pieces and Nonconforming
worthies, and its kitchen-dresser with ranks of ancestral crockery, vivid in light and colour,
which catches the eyes first of all things through the open door, "This," one was tempted to
cry, "were the study for me! Here would I sit in the shelter of the wooden screen which keeps
away draughts and noisy company, and turn the pages of my Livy for the tale of Cincinnatus,
and deeds of rustic heroes; or hear old Horace descant on the gracious simplicity of life among
the Sabines."

The boys thought quite otherwise.  The kitchen was generally the last room to be chosen.  Perhaps
the idyllic attractions did not balance the drawback of living in the thoroughfare of the house.
Nor could one fail to sympathise with those who preferred the garret, a poor thing but their
own, in which two studious souls could hob-nob, or even the austere whitewash, narrow skylight,
and niggard dimensions of some monastic cell, which held just the one student, his table, and
his books.  The editor of the School Magazine, writing a month after our arrival, finds it
"a queer new feeling to do the old work in a strange place, to miss the accustomed pictures
on the walls, the accustomed column of books rising on either hand--even the familiar table-cloth
and carpet, and to sit instead inside the framework of a six-foot bed, with roof and walls
forming the queerest possible combinations of lines and angles, and hung with three different
patterns of paper."  To woo the muses in a garret is the common fate of genius; but most of
the "students" (for so their landladies, misled by a name, called the occupants of a study)
were better off than this literary gentleman.  When fires came to be lighted in the winter,
there was a cheerful domesticity in the sight of the red coals, which is unknown to the solitude
of Uppingham studies, with their hot-water pipe that warms but not exhilarates.  In particular,
one cheery well-furnished parlour, where a blazing hearth threw its light over the well-worn
bindings of a select library brought with us from the Sixth-Form-room, and on the well- contented
faces of its two custodians, burns as a bright spot in our memory of those winter days.

Thus we managed things even better than if we had listened to another ingenious writer, with
whose proposal we will close this topic.  It was this: "Let two hundred bathing-machines be
brought together from Llandudno and other watering-places within reach, and ranged along the
beach.  Let one machine be assigned to each boy, and let them be filled up with book-shelves,
table, chairs, &c.  Thus the whole difficulty will be solved in a moment.  And the plan has
this further advantage, that when the time comes for returning to Uppingham, the bathing-machines
would be simply formed in line, and driven across the country to Rutlandshire, and all further
trouble in the way of furniture-vans and families-removing be cut away at one stroke."

CHAPTER VII.--THE COMMISSARIAT.

   To feed were best at home.

   MACBETH.

   [Greek verse]

   ILIAD IX.

   PRINCE HENRY.  Doth it not show vilely in me to desire small beer?

   POINS.  Why, a prince should not be so loosely studied as to
   remember so weak a composition.

   PRINCE HENRY.  Belike then my appetite was not princely got; for,
   by my troth, I do now remember the poor creature, small beer.
   But, indeed, these humble considerations make me out of love with
   my greatness.

   2 HENRY IV.

"Who ought to take the command, in the event of anything happening to your lordship?" asked
Wellington's officers on an occasion in the Peninsular War.  "Beresford," the great strategist
answered, after reflection.  And then, in answer to their surprised looks: "If it were a question
of handling troops, some of you fellows might do as well, perhaps better than he; but what
we now want is someone to feed our men." {46}

This story, and the countenance of the epic and royal personages of our mottoes, is our excuse
for passing on to treat of the ignoble topic of knives and forks, and to describe how three
times a day our colony was fed.  It is a topic which could not be left outside a narrative
which seeks to "show how fields were won."

