"You will see that one page is left blank; I couldn't fill it up till I knew whether you would
accept the dedication."

"I?" She looked up. She was no doubt surprised; but he thought he could read something in her
look that was deeper and sweeter than surprise.

"If you could, it would give me great pleasure. It's the only acknowledgement I can make for
all your kindness."

"Please, please don't talk of my kindness."

"I won't. If it were any other book, it might be merely a question of acknowledgement, but
this book belongs to you."

"Are you quite sure--" She was about to question his right to offer it, which was as good as
questioning his honour, as good as assuming that--She paused, horrified as she realized what
it was that she had almost assumed. Kitty had often told her that she erred through excess
of subtlety. It wouldn't have mattered with anybody less subtle than Keith Rickman; but he
would see it all. He did.

"Quite sure that I oughtn't to offer it to anybody else? I am quite sure. It was written four
years ago, before--before I knew anybody else. It has nothing to do with anybody else, it couldn't
have been dedicated to anybody else. If you don't accept it--"

"But I do." Her eagerness was the natural recoil from her hesitation. She was so anxious to
atone for that shocking blunder she had made.

"I say, how you do take things on trust."

"Some things."

"But you mustn't. You can't accept the dedication of a book you haven't read. Do you know,
now I come to think of it, you've always taken me on trust? Do you remember when first I came
to you--it's more than five years ago--you took me on trust then?" (Their talk had a way of
running to this refrain of 'Do you remember?') "Do you remember how you said,' I must risk it'?"

"Yes, I remember how I insisted on keeping you, and how very unwilling you were to be kept."

"Do you mind telling me what made you want to keep me? You didn't know me in the least, you know."

"I wanted to keep you because you didn't want to stay. I knew then that I could trust you.
But I confess that most people might not have seen it in that way."

"Well, I can't let you take these sonnets on trust. For this time, your principle doesn't apply,
you see. You can't say you're accepting this dedication because I don't want to give it to
you." Though he laughed he rose and backed towards the door, suddenly anxious to be gone.

"Isn't it enough that I want to accept it?"

He shook his head, still backing, and at the door he paused to speak. "You've accepted nothing--as
yet."

"Of course," she said to herself, "it would have been wiser to have read them first. But I
can trust him."

But as she was about to read them a knock, a familiar knock at the door interrupted her. "Kitty!"

She laid the manuscript hastily aside, well out of Kitty's roving sight. She had noticed how
his hands had trembled as he brought it; she did not notice that her own shook a little in
thus putting it away from her.

Kitty Palliser, up in town for a week, had come less on her own account than as an impetuous
ambassador from the now frantic Edith. She too was prepared to move heaven and earth, if only
she could snatch her Lucy from Tavistock Place. But her anxiety was not wholly on Lucia's account,
as presently appeared.

"How can you stand it for a minute?" said she.

"I'm standing it very well indeed."

"But what on earth do you find to do all day long, when," said Kitty severely, "you're not
talking to young Rickman?"

"All day long I go out, or lie down and read, or talk to Sophie."

"And in the evenings?"

"In the evenings sometimes I make an old man happy by playing."

"And I expect you're making a young man unhappy by playing, too--a very dangerous game."

"Kitty, that young man is perfectly happy. He's going to be married."

"All the worse. Then you'll make a young woman unhappy as well. This little game would be dangerous
enough with a man of your own set. It isn't fair to play it with him, Lucy, when you know the
rules and he doesn't."

"I assure you, Kitty, he knows them as well as you or I do; better."

"I doubt it." Kitty's eyes roamed round the room (they had not lost their alert and hungry
look) and they took in the situation at a glance. That move in the game would never have been
made if he had known the rules. How could she let him make it?

"Really, Lucy, for a nice woman you do the queerest things."

"And, really, Kitty, for a clever woman, you say the stupidest. You're getting like Edith."

"I am not like Edith. I only say stupid things. She thinks them. What's more, in thinking them
she only thinks of herself and her precious family. I'm thinking of you, dear, and"--Kitty's
voice grew soft--"and of him. You ought to think of him a little too."

"I do think of him. I've been thinking of him all the time."

"I know you have. But don't let him suffer because of the insanely beautiful way you have of
thinking."

There was a pause, in which it was evident to Kitty that Lucia was thinking deeply, and beautifully
too.

"Have I made him suffer? I'm afraid I did once. He was valuable, and I damaged him."

"Yes; and ever since you've been trying to put him together again; in your own way, not his.
That's fatal."

Lucia shook her head and followed her own train of thought. "Kitty, to be perfectly honest,
I think--I'm not sure, but I think--from something he said to-day that you were right about
him once. I mean about his beginning to care too much. I'm afraid it was so, at Harmouth, towards
the end. But it isn't so any more. He tried to tell me just now. He did it beautifully; as
if he knew that that would make me happier. At least I think that's what he meant. He didn't
say much, but I'm sure he was thinking about his marriage."

"Heaven help his wife then--if he got as far as that. I suppose you take a beautiful view of
her, too? Drop it, for goodness' sake, drop it."

"Not I. It would mean dropping him. It's all right, Kitty. You don't know the ways of poets."

"Perhaps not. But I know the ways of men."

Though Kitty had not accomplished her mission she so far prevailed that she carried her Lucy
off to dinner.

It was somewhere towards midnight, when all the house was quiet, that Lucia first looked into
Keith Rickman's sonnets. She had been led to expect something in the nature of a personal revelation,
and the first sonnet struck the key-note, gave her the clue.

    I asked the minist'ring priests who never tire
      In love's high service, who behold their bliss
      Through golden gloom of Love's dread mysteries,
    What heaven there be for earth's foregone desire?

    And they kept silence. But the gentle choir
      Who sing Love's praises answered me, "There is
      No voice to speak of these deep sanctities,
    For Love hath sealed his servants' lips with fire."

    Yet in his faithfulness put thou thy faith,
      Though he hath bound thee in the house of pain,
        And given thy body to the scourging years,
        And brought thee for thy thirst the drink of tears,
    That sorrowing thou shouldst serve him unto death;
      For when Love reigneth, all his saints shall reign.

She kindled and flamed, her whole being one inspired and burning sympathy. She knew what it
was all about. She was on the track of a Poet's Progress in quest of the beloved Perfection,
Beauty and Truth in one. Of those nine and twenty sonnets she looked for a score that should
make immortal the moments of triumph and of vision, the moments of rapture and fulfilment of
the heart's desire. Her glance fell now on two lines that clearly pointed to the goal of those
who travel on the divine way--

    --Elysian calm and passion with no stain
        Of mortal tears, no touch of mortal pain--

She hoped he had reached it. And more than that she hoped. She was ignorant of what his life
had been before he knew her; but the Song of Confession had made her realize that besides this
way where the poet went invincibly there was another where the man desired to go, where, as
they were so ready to tell her, he had not always gone. But that was before she knew him. She
hoped (taking her beautiful view) that in this gift of his he had meant to give to her who
understood him some hint or sign that he had come near it also, the way of Righteousness. She
looked to find many sonnets dealing with these secret matters of the soul. Therefore she approached
them fearlessly, since she knew what they were all about. And since, in that curious humility
of the man that went so oddly with the poet's pride, he had so exaggerated his obligation,
taking, as he said, the will for the deed and making of her desire to serve him a service actually
done; since his imagination had played round her for a moment as it played round all things,
transforming, magnifying, glorifying, she might perhaps find one sonnet of dedication to her
who had understood him.

But when she had read them all, she saw, and could not help seeing, that the whole nine and
twenty were one continuous dedication--and to her. If she had found what she looked for, she
found also that a revelation had been made to her of things even more sacred, more personal;
a revelation that was in its way unique. He had hidden nothing, kept back nothing, not one
moment of that three-weeks' passion (for so she dated it). It was all laid before her as it
had been; all its immortal splendour, and all its mortal suffering and its shame. Not a line
(if she could have stayed to think of that), not a word that could offend her taste or hurt
her pride. The thing was perfect. She understood why it had been shown to her. She understood
that he wanted to tell her that he had loved her. She understood that he never would have told
her if it had not been all over. It was because it was all over that he had brought her this,
to show her how great a thing she had done for him, she who thought she had done nothing. As
she locked the sonnets away in a safe place for the night, in her heart there was a great pride
and a still greater thankfulness and joy. Joy because it was all over, pride because it had
once been, and thankfulness because it had been given her to know.

And in his room behind the wall that separated them the poet walked up and down, tortured by
suspense; and said to himself over and over again, "I wonder how she'll take it."

CHAPTER LX

That was on a Thursday. It had been arranged earlier in the week that Flossie and he were to
dine with Lucia on Friday evening. On Saturday and Sunday the Beaver would be let loose, and
would claim him for her own. He could not hope to see Lucia alone before Monday evening; his
suspense, then, would have to endure for the better part of four days. He had nothing to hope
for from Friday evening. Lucia's manner was too perfect to afford any clue as to how she had
taken it. If she were offended she would hardly let him see it before Flossie and Miss Roots.
If she accepted, there again the occasion forbade her to give any sign to one of her guests
that should exclude the other two. Still, it was just possible that he might gather something
from her silence.

But as it happened, he had not even that to go upon. Never had Lucia been less silent than
on Friday night. Not that she talked more than usual, but that all her looks, all her gestures
spoke. They spoke of her pleasure in the happiness of her friend; of tenderness to the little
woman whom he loved (so little and he so great); of love that embraced them both, the great
and the little, a large, understanding love that was light and warmth in one. For Lucia believed
firmly that she understood. She had always desired him to be happy, to be reconciled to the
beautiful and glorious world; she had tried to bring about that reconciliation; and she conceived
herself to have failed. And now because the thing had been done so beautifully, so perfectly
(if a little unexpectedly), by somebody else, because she was relieved of all anxiety and responsibility,
Lucia was rejoicing with all her heart.

He had not been five minutes in the room before he saw it all. Lucia believed that it was all
over, and was letting herself go, carried away by the spectacle of a supreme and triumphal
happiness. She triumphed too. Her eyes when they looked at him seemed to be saying, "Didn't
I tell you so?"

He saw why they had been asked to dinner. The spirit of the bridal hour was upon her, and she
had made a little feast to celebrate it. Like everything she did, it was simple and beautiful
and exquisite of its kind. And yet it was not with that immaculate white linen cloth, spread
on Keith's writing-table, strewn with slender green foliage and set out with delicate food
and fruit and wine, nor with those white flowers, nor with those six shaded candles, that she
had worked the joyous tender charm. These things, in her hands and in his eyes, became sacramental,
symbolic of Lucia's soul with its pure thoughts and beautiful beliefs, its inspired and burning
charities.

And the hero of this feast of happiness sat at her right hand, facing his little bride-elect,
a miserable man consumed with anguish and remorse. He had never had so painful a sense of the
pathos of his Beaver. For if anybody was happy it was she. Flossie was aware that it was her
hour, and that high honour was being paid to her. Moreover, he could see for the moment that
the worm had ceased to gnaw, and that she had become the almost affectionate thrall of the
lady whose motto was Invictus. She had been forced (poor little girl) to anticipate her trousseau
in order to attire herself fitly for the occasion, and was looking remarkably pretty in her
way. She sat very upright, and all her demeanour was irreproachably modest, quiet and demure.
Nothing could have been more correct than her smile, frequent, but so diminutive that it just
lifted her upper lip and no more. No insight, no foreboding troubled her. Her face, soft and
golden white in the candlelight, expressed a shy and delicate content. For Flossie was a little
materialist through and through. Her smooth and over feminine body seemed to have grown smoother
and more feminine still under the touch of pleasure; all that was hard and immobile in her
melting in the sense of well-being.

It was not merely that Flossie was on her good behaviour. His imagination (in league with his
conscience) suggested that the poor child, divinely protected by the righteousness of her cause,
was inspired to confound his judgement of her, to give no vantage ground to his disloyalty,
to throw him defenceless on his own remorse. Or was it Lucia who inspired her? Lucia, whose
loving spirit could create the thing it loved, whose sweetness was of so fine and piercing
a quality that what it touched it penetrated. He could not tell, but he thanked Heaven that
at least for this hour which was hers the little thing was happy. He, for his part, by unprecedented
acts of subterfuge and hypocrisy, endeavoured to conceal his agony.

Miss Roots alone divined it. Beyond looking festive in a black silk gown and a kind of white
satin waistcoat, that clever lady took a strained and awkward part in the rejoicing. He was
inclined to think that the waistcoat committed her to severity, until he became aware that
she was watching him with a furtive sympathy in the clever eyes that saw through his pitiful
play. How was it that Lucia, she who once understood him, could not divine him too?

From this estranging mood he was roused by the innocent laughter of the Beaver. He was aware
of certain thin and melancholy sounds that floated up from some room below. They struggled
with the noises of the street, overcame, and rose strident and triumphant to invade the feast.
They seemed to him in perfect keeping with the misery and insanity of the hour.

It was Mr. Partridge playing on his flute.

Miss Roots looked at Lucia. "That's you, Lucy. You've been talking to him about that flute.
I suppose you told him you would love to hear him play it?"

"No, Sophie, I didn't tell him that." But Lucy looked a little guilty. The flute rose as if
in passionate protest against her denial. It seemed to say "You did! You know you did!"

"I only said it was a pity he'd given it up, and I meant it. But oh!" and Lucy put her hands
up to her ears, "I don't mean it any more."

"That comes," said Rickman, "of taking things on trust."

She smiled and shook her head. It was her first approach to a sign of reassurance.

"That's the sort of thing she's always doing. It doesn't matter for you, Lucy. You won't have
to stay on and hear him."

"I don't know. I think I shall stay on. You see, Mr. Rickman, I can't part with this pretty room."

"Do you like it?"

"I like it very much indeed. You're all coming to dine with me here again some day."

"And you must come and dine with us, Miss Harden, when we've got settled." It was Flossie who
spoke.

"I shall be delighted."

He looked up, surprised. He could not have believed the Beaver could have done it so prettily.
He had not even realized that it could be done at all. It never occurred to him that his marriage
could bring him nearer to Lucia Harden. He looked kindly at the Beaver and blessed her for
that thought. And then a thought bolder than the Beaver's came to him. "I hope," he said, "you'll
do more than that. You must come and stay with us in the summer. You shall sit out in a deck-chair
in the garden all day. That's the way to get strong."

Then he remembered that she could do that just as well in someone else's garden up at Hampstead,
and he looked shy and anxious as he added, "Will you come?"

"Of course I'll come," said she.

He saw her going through the house at Ealing and sitting in the little green garden with the
lilac bushes about her all in flower. And at the thought of her coming he was profoundly moved.
His eyes moistened, and under the table his knees shook violently with the agitation of his
nerves. Miss Roots gave one queer little glance at him and another at Flossie, and the moment
passed.

And Lucia had not divined it. No, not for a moment, not even in the moment of leave-taking.
She was still holding Flossie's hand in hers when her eyes met his, kind eyes that were still
saying almost triumphantly, "I told you so."

As she dropped Flossie's hand for his, she answered the question that he had not dared to ask.
"I've read them," she said, and there was no diminution in her glad look.

"When may I see you?"

"To-morrow, can you? Any time after four?"

CHAPTER LXI

He came into Lucia's presence with a sense of doing something voluntary and yet inevitable,
something sanctioned and foreappointed; a sense of carrying on a thing already begun, of returning,
through a door that had never been shut, to the life wherein alone he knew himself. And yet
this life, measured by days and hours and counting their times of meeting only, ran hardly
to six weeks.

Since times and places were of no account, he might have been coming, as he came five years
ago, to hear her judgement on his neo-classic drama. Strange and great things had happened
to his genius since that day. Between Helen in Leuce and the Nine and Twenty Sonnets there
lay the newly discovered, heavenly countries of the soul.

"Well," he said, glancing at the poems, as he seated himself. "What do you think of them? Am
I forgiven? Do you consent?"

"So many questions? They're all answered, aren't they, if I say I consent?"

"And do you?" There was acute anxiety in his voice and eyes. It struck her as painful that
the man, whom she was beginning to look on as possibly the greatest poet of his age, should
think it necessary to plead to her for such a little thing.

"I do indeed."

"Without reservations?"

"What reservations should there be? Of course I could only be glad--and proud--that you should
do me so much honour. If I can't say very much about it, don't think I don't feel it. I feel
it more than I can say."

"Do you really mean it? I was afraid that it might offend you; or that you'd think I oughtn't
to have written the things; or at any rate that I'd no business to show them to you. And as
for the dedication, I couldn't tell how you'd feel about that."

And she, having before her eyes the greatness of his genius, was troubled by the humility and
hesitation of his approach. It recalled to her the ways of his pathetic youth, his youth that
obscurity made wild and shy and unassured.

"I can't tell either," she replied, "I don't know whether I ought to feel proud or humble about
it; but I think I feel both. Your wanting to dedicate anything to me would have been enough
to make me very proud. Even if it had been a little thing--but this thing is great. In some
ways it seems to me the greatest thing you've done yet. I did think just at first that I ought
perhaps to refuse because of that. And then I saw that, really, that was what made it easy
for me to accept. It's so great that the dedication doesn't count."

"But it does count. It's the only thing that counts to me. You can't take it like that and
separate it from the rest. Those sonnets would still be dedicated to you even if you refused
to let me write your name before them. I want you to see that they are the dedication."

Lucia shook her head. She had seen it. She could see nothing else when she read them. How was
it that the poet's bodily presence made her inclined to ignore the reference to herself; to
take these poems dedicated to her as an event, not in her life or his, but in the history of
literature?

"No," she said, "you must not look at them that way. If they were, it might be a reason for
refusing. I know most people would think they'd less right to accept what wasn't really dedicated
to them. But, you see, it's just because it isn't really dedicated to me that I can accept it."

"But it is--"

"No, not to me. You wouldn't be so great a poet if it were. I don't see myself here; but I
see you, and your idea of me. It's--it's dedicated to that dream of yours. Didn't I tell you
your dream was divorced from reality?"

"You told me it would be reconciled to it."

"And it is, isn't it? And the reality is worth all the dreams that ever were?"

He could have told her that so it appeared to those who are bound in the house of bondage;
but that in Leuce, the country of deliverance, the dream and the reality are indivisible, being
both divine. He could have told her that he had known as much five years ago; even before he
knew her.

"After all," he said, "that's admitting that they are divided. And that, if you remember, was
what I said, not what you said."

Lucia evaded the issue in a fashion truly feminine. "It doesn't matter a bit what either of
us said then, so long as you know now."

"There's one thing I don't know. I don't know how you really take it; or whether you will really
understand. Just now I thought you did, But after all it seems you don't. You think I'm only
trying to pay you a stupid literary compliment. You think when I wrote those things I didn't
mean them; my imagination was simply taking a rather more eccentric flight than usual. Isn't
that so?"

"I'm certainly allowing for your imagination. I can't forget that you are a poet. You won't
let me forget it. I can't separate your genius from the rest of you."

"And I can't separate the rest of me from it. That makes the difference, you see." He was angry
as he said that. He had wondered whether she would deal as tenderly with his passion as she
had dealt with his dream; and she had dealt just as tenderly. But it was because she identified
the passion with the dream. He had not been prepared for that view of it; and somehow it annoyed
him. But for that, he would never have spoken as he now did. "When I wondered how you would
take it I thought it might possibly strike you as something rather too real, almost offensively
so. Do you know, I'd rather you'd taken it that way than that you should talk about my dreams.
My dreams." (It was shocking, the violent emphasis of disgust the poet, the dreamer, flung
into that one word.) "As if I'd dreamed that I knew you. As if I'd dreamed that I cared for
you. Would you rather think I dreamed it? You can if you like. Or would you rather think it
was the most real thing that ever happened to me? So real that after it happened--because it
happened--I left off being the sort of man and the sort of poet I was, and became another sort.
So real and so strong that it saved me from one or two other things, uncommonly strong and
real, that had got a pretty tight hold of me, too. Would you rather think that you'd really
done this for me, or that I'd dreamed it all?"

She looked at his face, the unforgotten, unforgetable face, which when she first knew it had
kindled and darkened so swiftly and inexplicably. She knew it now. She held the key of all
its mysteries. It was the face that had turned to her five years ago with just that look; in
the mouth and lifted chin that imperious impetuous determination to make her see; in the eyes
that pathetic trust in her seeing. The same face; and yet it would have told her, if he had
not, that he was another man. No, not another man; but of all the ways that were then open
to him to take he had chosen the noblest. And so, of all the expressions that in its youth
had played on that singularly expressive face, it was the finest only that had become dominant.
That face had never lied to her. Why should he not plead for the sincerity of his passion,
since it was all over now? Was it possible that there was some secret insincerity in her? How
was it that she had made him think that she desired to ignore, to repudiate her part in him?
That she preferred a meaningless compliment to the confession which was the highest honour
that could be paid to any woman? Was it because the honour was so great that she was afraid
to take it?

"Of course I would rather think it was really so."

"Then you must believe that I really cared for you; and that it is only because I cared that
it is really so."

"I do believe it. But I can't take it all to myself. Another person might have cared just as
much, and it might have done him harm--I would never have forgiven myself if I had done you
harm--I want you to see that it wasn't anything in me; it was something in you that made the
difference."

He smiled sadly. "You know it does sound as if you wanted to keep out of it."

"Does it? If I had really been in it, do you think that I wouldn't be glad and thankful? I
am, even for the little that I have done. Even though I know another woman might have done
as much, or more, I'm glad I was the one. But, you see, I didn't know I was in it at all. I
didn't know the sort of help you wanted. Perhaps, if I had known, I couldn't have helped you.
But my knowing or not knowing doesn't matter one bit. If I did help you--that way--I helped
some one else too. At least I should like to think I did. I should like to think that one reason
why you care for your wife so much is because you cared a little for me. There is that way
of looking at it." Then, lest she should seem to be seeking some extraneous justification of
a fact that in her heart she abhorred, she added, "Every way I look at it I'm glad. I'm glad
that you cared. I'm glad because it's been, and glad because it's over. For if it hadn't been
over--"

"What were you going to say?"

"I was going to say that if it hadn't been over you couldn't have given me these. I didn't
say it; because it would have sounded as if that were all I cared about. As if I wouldn't have
been almost as glad if you'd never written a line of them. Only in that case I should never
have known."

"No. You would never have known."

"I think I should have been glad, even if the poems had been--not very good poems."

"You wouldn't have known in that case either. I wouldn't have shown them to you if they had
not been good. As it is, when I wrote them I never meant to show them to you."

"Oh, but I think--"

"Of course you do. But I wasn't going to print them before you'd seen them. Do you know what
I'd meant to do with them--what in fact I did do with them? I left them to you in my will with
directions that they weren't to be published without your consent. It seems a rather unusual
bequest, but you know I had a conceited hope that some time they might be valuable. I don't
know whether they would have sold for three thousand pounds--I admit it was a draft on posterity
that posterity might have dishonoured--but I thought they might possibly go a little way towards
paying my debt."

"Your debt? I don't understand." But the trembling of her mouth belied its words.

"Don't you? Don't you remember?"

"No, I don't. I never have remembered."

"Probably not. But you can hardly suppose that I've forgotten it."

"What has it to do with you, or me--or this?"

"Not much, perhaps; but still something, you'll admit."

"I admit nothing. I can't bear your ever having thought of it. I wish you hadn't told me. It
spoils everything."

"Does it? Such a little thing? Surely a friend might be allowed to leave you a small legacy
when he was decently dead? And it wasn't his fault, was it, if it paid a debt as well?"

The tears rose in her eyes to answer him.

"But you see I didn't leave it. I didn't wait for that. I was afraid that my being dead would
put you in a more embarrassing position than if I'd been alive. You might have hated those
poems and yet you might have shrunk from suppressing them for fear of wounding the immortal
vanity of a blessed spirit. Or you might have taken that horrid literary view I implored you
not to take. You might have hesitated to inflict so great a loss on the literature of your
country." He tried to speak lightly, as if it were merely a whimsical and extravagant notion
that he should be reckoned among the poets. And yet in his heart he knew that it must be so.
"But now the things can't be published unless you will accept them as they were originally
meant. There's nothing gross about the transaction; nothing that need offend either you or me."

"I can't--I can't--"

"Well," he said gently, fearing the appearance of grossness in pressing the question, "we can
settle that afterwards, can't we? Meanwhile at all events the publication rests with you."

"The publication has nothing whatever to do with me--The dedication, perhaps."

"You've accepted that. Still, you might object to your name appearing before the public with mine."

Lucia looked bewildered. She thought she had followed him in all his subtleties; but she had
had difficulty in realizing that he was actually proposing to suppress his poems in deference
to her scruples, if she had any. Some shadowy notion of his meaning was penetrating her now.

"My name," she said, "will mean nothing to the public."

"Then you consent?"

"Of course. It's absurd to talk about my consent. Besides, why should I mind now--when it is
all over?"

He was silent for a moment. When he spoke again, it was by an effort, as if he unwillingly
obeyed some superior constraint. "If it hadn't been all over would you have minded then? Would
you have refused your consent?"

"To your publishing your own poems? How could I?"

"To the dedication, I mean. If it hadn't been all over, would you have given your consent to that?"

His anxiety had deepened to an agony which seemed to have made his face grow sharp and thin
almost as she looked at him. She judged that this question was vital, and that the truth was
required of her.

"No, not to that. You see, it's only because it's all over that I've consented now."

"I see; that's the condition? You would never have consented but for that."

"Why should we talk about that now?"

"I wanted to know the truth."

"Why should you? It's a truth that has nothing to do with things as they are, only with things
as they might have been. Isn't it enough to be glad that they weren't, that it is all over,
and that this is the end of it?"

Even as she said the words it struck her that there was something ominous in this reiteration.

"But it isn't all over. This isn't the end of it."

His voice was so low that she could hardly have heard it but for the intense vibration of the
tones. There was a pause in which they seemed still to be throbbing, but with no meaning behind
the passionate pulse of sound.

"I didn't mean to tell you. I know you'd rather think it wasn't so. And I would have let you
think it if it hadn't been for what you told me--what I made you tell me."

"I don't understand. What did I tell you?"

"You told me the truth." He spoke with a sudden savage energy. "How could I go on lying after
that?"

She looked at him with that almost imperceptible twitching of her soft mouth which he knew
to be a sign of suffering; and in her eyes there was pain and a vague terror.

"I might have gone on lying to the end, if nothing had depended on it. But if you tell me that
you only give your consent to a thing on one condition, and I know that I can't possibly fulfil
the condition, what am I to do? Say nothing about it, and do what you would loathe me for doing
if you knew?"

Till now she had left the manuscript lying in her lap, where unconsciously her hands covered
it with a gentle protecting touch. But as he spoke she took it up and put it away from her
with an irresistible impulse of rejection. He knew that he was answered.

"If I had," he said, "in one sense I should have done you no wrong. All this would be nothing
to the world which would read these poems. But when I knew that it made all the difference
to you--"

She turned, as he had seen her turn once and only Once before, in reproach that was almost anger.

"To me? Do you suppose I'm thinking of myself?"

"Perhaps not. That doesn't prevent my thinking of you. But I was thinking of myself, too. Supposing
I had done this thing that you would have loathed; even though you had never known it, I should
have felt that I had betrayed your trust, that I had taken something from you that I had no
right to take, something that you would never have given me if you had known. What was I to do?"

She did not answer him. Once before, he remembered, when his honour was in difficulties, she
had refused to help it out, left it to struggle to the light; which was what it did now.

"It would have been better to have said nothing and done nothing."

He expected her to close instantly with that view of his behaviour which honour had presented
as the final one, but this she did not do.

"If you had said nothing you might have done what you liked."

"I see. It's my saying it that makes the difference?"

"That is not what I meant. I meant that you were free to publish what you have written. You
are not free to say these things to me."

"For the life of me I don't know why I said them. It means perdition for my poems and for me.
I knew that was all I had to gain by telling you the truth."

"But it isn't the truth. You know it isn't. You don't even think it is."

"And if it were, would it be so terrible to you to hear it?"

She did not answer. She only looked at him, as if by looking she could read the truth. For
his face had never lied.

He persisted. "If it were true, what would you think of me?"

"I should think it most dishonourable of you to say so. But it isn't true."

He smiled. "Therefore it can't be dishonourable of me to say so."

"No, not that. You are not dishonourable; therefore it can't be true. Let us forget that you
ever said it."

"But I can't forget that it's true any more than I can make it untrue. You think me dishonourable,
because you think I've changed. But I haven't changed. It always was so, ever since I knew
you; and that's more than five years ago now. I am dishonourable; but that's not where the
dishonour comes in. The dishonourable thing would have been to have left off caring for you.
But I never did leave off. There never was a minute when it wasn't true, nor a minute when
I didn't think it. If I was sure of nothing else I was always sure of that. Where the dishonour
came in was in caring for another woman, in another way."

"The dishonour would come in if you'd left off caring for her. And you haven't done that. It
would come in a little now, I think, if you said that you didn't care. But you don't say it;
you don't even think it. Shall I tell you the truth? You've let your genius get too strong
a hold over you. You've let it get hold, too, of this feeling that you had for me. And now,
though you know perfectly well--as well as I do--that it's all over, your genius is trying
to persuade you that the feeling is still there when it isn't."

"That is not so, but you can say it is, if it makes you any happier."

"It does make me happier to think that it's your genius, not you, that says these things. For
I can forgive your genius; but I couldn't have forgiven you."

At that moment he felt a savage jealousy of his genius, because she loved it. "And yet, you
said a little while ago you couldn't separate the two."

"You have obliged me to separate them, to find an excuse for you. This ought not to have happened;
but it could not have happened to a man who was not a poet."

All the time she was miserably aware that she was trying to defend herself with subtleties
against the impact of a terrible reality. And because that reality must weigh more heavily
on him than her, she was trying to defend him too, against himself, to force on him, against
himself, her own subtilizing, justifying view.

But his subtlety was a match for hers. "Your cousin once did me the honour to say I was one-seventh
part a poet, and upon my honour I prefer his estimate to yours."

"What is mine?"

"That I'm nothing but a poet. That there wasn't enough of me left over to make a man."

"That is not my estimate, and you know it. I think you so much a man that your heart will keep
you right, even though your genius has led you very far astray."

"Is that all you know about it?"

"Well, I'm not sure that it is your genius, this time. I rather think it's your sense of honour.
I believe you think that because you once cared for me you've got to go on caring, lest I should
accuse you of being faithless to your dream." ("Surely," she said to herself, "I've made it
easy for him now?")

But the word was too much for him. "For Goodness' sake don't talk to me any more about my dream.
You may think any mortal thing you like about me, so long as you don't do that."

She smiled faintly, as if with an effort at forbearance. "Very well then, I won't talk about
your dream. I'll say you were afraid lest I should think you had been faithless to me. It would
never have occurred to you if you hadn't seen me again. It will not occur to you after I am
gone. It will be all over by to-morrow."

"Why to-morrow?" He spoke stupidly. Fear had made him stupid. "Why to-morrow?"

"Because I am going to-morrow."

Then he knew that it was indeed all over. The door which had been open to him was about to
close; and once closed it would never be open to him again.

"What must you think of me--"

"I think you have done very wrong, and that our talking about it only makes it worse. And so--I'm
sorry--but I must ask you to leave me."

But he did not leave her. "And I must ask you to forgive me," he said gently.

"I? I have nothing to forgive. You haven't done anything to me. But I should never forgive
you if I thought this foolishness could make one moment's difference to--to Flossie."

"It never has made any difference to her," he replied coldly, "or to my feeling for her. I
never felt towards any woman as I feel towards you. It isn't the same thing at all. Heaven
knows I thought I cared enough for her to marry her. But it seems I didn't. That's why I say
it makes no difference to her. Nothing is altered by it. As far as Flossie is concerned, whether
I marry her or not I shall have behaved abominably. I don't know which is the more dishonourable."

"Don't you?"

"No. I only know which I'm going to do."

She turned her head away. And that turning away was intolerable. It was the closing of the door.

"Is it so very terrible to you?" he said gently.

He could not see the tears in her eyes, but he heard them in her voice, and he knew that he
had wounded her, Hot in her pride, but in her tenderness and honour--Lucia's honour.

"To me? I'm not thinking of myself--not of myself at all. How could I think of myself? I'm
thinking of her." She turned to him and let her tears gather in her eyes unheeded. "Don't you
see what you've done?"

Oh, yes; he saw very well what he had done. He had taken the friendship she had given to him
to last his life and destroyed it in a moment, with his own hands. All for the sake of a subtlety,
a fantastic scruple, a question asked, a thing said under some obscure compulsion. He had been
moved by he knew not what insane urgency of honour. And whatever else he saw he did not see
how he could have done otherwise. The only alternative was to say nothing, to do nothing. Supposing
he had suppressed both his passion and the poems that immortalized it, what would she have
thought of him then? Would she not have thought that he had either dedicated to her a thing
that he was afterwards ashamed of, or that he had meant nothing by the dedication?

"Don't you see what you have done?" she said. "You've made me wish I had never come here and
that I'd never seen you again. It was only the other night--the dear little girl--she came
up here and sat with me, and we had a talk. We talked about you. She told me how she came to
know you, and how good you'd been to her and how long it was before either of you knew. She
told me things about herself. She is very shy--very reserved--but she let me see how much she
cares--and how much you care. Think what you must be to her. She has no father and no mother,
she has nobody but you. She told me that. And then--she took me up to her room and showed me
all her pretty things. She was so happy--and how can I look at her again? She would hate me
if she knew; and I couldn't blame her, poor child. She could never understand that it was not
my fault."

But as she said it her conscience rose in contradiction and told her that it was her fault.
Her fault in the very beginning for drawing him into an intimacy that his youth and inexperience
made dangerous. Her fault for sacrificing, yes, sacrificing him to that impulse to give pleasure
which had only meant giving pleasure to herself at his expense. Her fault for endlessly refining
on the facts of life, till she lost all feeling of its simpler and more obvious issues. Kitty
had been right when she told her that she treated men as if they were disembodied spirits.
She had trusted too much to her own subtlety. That was how all her blunders, had been made.
If she had been cold as well as subtle--but Lucia was capable of passionate indiscreet things
to be followed by torments of her pride. Her pride had only made matters worse. It was her
pride, in the beginning, that had blinded her. She had trusted to the social gulf to keep her
safe, apart. Afterwards, she knew that she had not trusted so much to the social gulf. She
had not been quite so proud; neither, since Kitty had opened her eyes, had she been so blind;
but she had been ten times more foolish. Her mind had refused to dwell upon Kitty's dreadful
suggestions, because they were dreadful. Unconscious of her sex, she had remained unconscious
of her power; she had trusted (unconsciously) to the power of another woman for protection.
Flossie had, so to speak, detached and absorbed the passionate part of Keith Rickman; by which
process the rest of him was left subtler and more pure. She had thought she could really deal
with him now as a disembodied spirit. And so under the shelter of his engagement she had, after
her own manner, let herself go.

These thoughts swept through her brain like one thought, as she contemplated the misery she
had made. They came with the surging of the blood in her cheeks, so swiftly that she had no
time to see that they hardly exhausted the aspects of her case. And it was not her own case
that she was thinking of.

She turned to him pleading. "Don't you see that I could never forgive myself if I thought that
I had hurt her? You are not going to make me so unhappy?"

"Do you mean, am I going to marry her?"

She said nothing; for she was conscious now, conscious and ashamed of using a power that she
had no right to have; ashamed, too, of being forced to acknowledge the truth of the thing she
had so passionately denied.

"You needn't be afraid," he said. "Of course I am going to marry her."

He turned away from her as he had turned away five years ago, with the same hopeless sense
of dishonour and defeat. She called him back, as she had called him back five years ago, and
for the same purpose, of delivering a final stab. Only that this time she knew it was a stab;
and her own heart felt the pain as she delivered it.

But the terrible thing had to be done. She had got to return the manuscript, the gift that
should never have been given. She gathered the loosened sheets tenderly, like things that she
was grieved to part from. He admitted that she was handling her sword with all gentleness so
as to avoid as far as possible any suggestion of a thrust.

"You must take them back," she said. "I can't keep them--or--or have anything to do with them
after what you told me. I should feel as if I'd taken what belonged to some one else."

As he took the sheets from her and pocketed them, she felt that again he was pocketing an insult
as well as a stab.

But the victim was no longer an inexperienced youth. So he smiled valorously, as beseemed his
manhood. "And yet," he murmured, "you say it isn't true."

She did not contradict him this time. And as he turned he heard behind him the closing of the door.

BOOK IV

THE MAN HIMSELF

CHAPTER LXII

After all, the wedding did not take place on the twenty-fifth; for on the twentieth Keith was
summoned to Ilford by a letter from his stepmother. Mrs. Rickman said she thought he ought
to know (as if Keith were seeking to avoid the knowledge!) that his father had had a slight
paralytic seizure. He had recovered, but it had left him very unsettled and depressed. He kept
on for ever worrying to see Keith. Mrs. Rickman hoped (not without a touch of asperity) that
Keith would lose no time in coming, as his father seemed so uneasy in his mind.

Very uneasy in his mind was Isaac, as upstairs in the big front bedroom, (which from its excess
of glass and mahogany bore a curious resemblance to the front shop,) he lay, a strangely shrunken
figure in the great bed. His face, once so reticent and regular, was drawn on one side, twisted
into an oblique expression of abandonment and agony.

Keith was not prepared for the change; and he broke down completely as the poor right hand
(which Isaac would use) opened and closed in a vain effort to clasp his. But Isaac was intolerant
of sympathy, and at once rebuked all reference to his illness. Above the wreck of his austere
face, his eyes, blood-shot as they were and hooded under their slack lids, defied you to notice
any change in him.

"I sent for you," he said, "because I wanted to talk over a little business." His utterance
was thick and uncertain; the act of speech showed the swollen tongue struggling in the distorted
mouth.

"Oh, don't bother about business now, father," said Keith, trying hard to steady his voice.

His father gave an irritable glance, as if he were repelling an accusation of mortality, conveyed
in the word "now."

"And why not now as well as any other time?"

Keith blew his nose hard and turned away.

"What's the matter with you? Do you suppose I'm ill?"

"Oh no, of course not."

"No. I'm just lying here to rest and get up my strength again; God willing. But in case anything
should happen to me, Keith, I want you to be clear as to how you stand."

"Oh, that's all right," said Keith cheerfully.

"It's not all right. It's not as I meant it to be. Between you and me, my big house hasn't
come to much. I think if you'd stayed in it--well--we won't say any more about that. But Paternoster
Row--now--that's sound. Mrs. Rickman always 'ad a fancy for the City 'ouse, and she's put money
into it. You'll have your share that was settled on you when I married your poor mother. You
stick to the City 'ouse, Keith, and it'll bring you in something some day. And the Name'll
still go on." It was pathetic, his persistent clinging to the immortality of his name. Pathetic,
too, his inability to see it otherwise than as blazoned for ever and ever over a shop-front.
His son's fame (if he ever achieved it) was a mere subsidiary glory. "But Pilkington'll get
the Strand 'ouse. Whatever I do I can't save it. I don't mind owning now, the Strand 'ouse
was a mistake."

"A very great mistake."

"And Pilkington'll get the 'Arden library."

"You don't know. You may get rid of him--before that time."

Isaac seemed to be torn by his thoughts the more because they found no expression in his face
that was bound, mouth, eye, and eyelid in its own agony. Before what time? Before the day of
his death, or the day of redemption? "The mortgage," he said, "'as still three years to run.
But I can't raise the money."

Keith was silent. He hardly liked to ask, though he would have given a great deal to know,
the amount of the sum his father could not raise. A possibility, a splendid, undreamed of possibility,
had risen up before him; but he turned away from it; it was infamous to entertain it, for it
depended on his father's death. And yet for the life of him he could not help wondering whether
the share which would ultimately come to him would by any chance cover that mortgage. To be
any good it would have to come before the three years were up, though--He put the splendid
horrible thought aside. He could not contemplate it. The wish was certainly not the father
of that thought. But supposing the thought became the father of a wish?

"That reminds me," said Isaac, "that there was something else I 'ad to say to you."

He did not say it all at once. At the very thought of it his swollen tongue moved impotently
without words. At last he got it out.

"I've been thinking it over--that affair of the library. And I've been led to see that what
I did was wrong. Wrong, I mean, in the sight of God."

There was a sense he could not get rid of, in which it might still be considered superlatively
right.

"And wot you did--"

"Oh, never mind what I did. That's all right."

"You did the righteous and the Christian thing."

"Did I? I'm sure I don't know why I did it."

"Ah--if you'd done it for the love of God, there's no doubt it'd 'ave been more pleasing to 'im."

"Well, you know I didn't do it for the love--of God."

"You did it for the love of woman? I was right then, after all."

Isaac felt inexpressibly consoled by Keith's cheerful disclaimer of all credit. His manner
did away with the solemnity of the occasion; but it certainly smoothed for him the painful
path of confession.

"Well, yes. If it hadn't been for Miss Harden I don't suppose I should have done it at all."

He said it very simply; but not all the magnificent consolations of religion could have given
Isaac greater peace. It was a little more even, the balance of righteousness between him and
Keith. He had never sinned, as Keith had done, after the flesh. Of the deeds done in the body
he would have but a very small account to render at the last.

"And you see, you haven't got anything for it out of her."

There was a certain satisfaction in his tone. He saw a mark of the divine displeasure in Keith's
failure to marry the woman he desired.

"And if I could only raise that money--"

He meant it--he meant it. The balance, held in God's hands, hung steady now.

"How much is it?" asked Keith; for he thought, "Perhaps he's only holding on to that share
for my sake; and if he knew that I would give it up now, he might really--"

"Four thousand nine with th' interest," said Isaac.

"Do you think, Keith, it would have sold for five?"

"Well, yes, I think it very possibly might."

"Ah!" Isaac turned his face from his son. The sigh expressed a profound, an infinite repentance.

CHAPTER LXIII

On the twenty-fifth Isaac Rickman lay dead in his villa at Ilford. Two days after Keith's visit
he had been seized by a second and more terrible paralytic stroke; and from it he did not recover.
The wedding was now indefinitely postponed till such time as Keith could have succeeded in
winding up his father's affairs.

They proved rather less involved than he had expected. Isaac had escaped dying insolvent. Though
a heavy mortgage delivered Rickman's in the Strand into Pilkington's possession, the City house
was not only sound, as Isaac had said, but in a fairly flourishing condition. Some blind but
wholly salutary instinct had made him hold on to that humbler and obscurer shop where first
his fortunes had been made; and with its immense patronage among the Nonconformist population
Rickman's in the City held a high and honourable position in the trade. The bulk of the profits
had to go to the bookseller's widow as chief owner of the capital; still, the slender partnership
settled on his son, if preserved intact and carefully manipulated, would yield in time a very
comfortable addition to Keith's income. If Isaac had lived, his affairs (as far as he was concerned)
would have been easily settled. But for his son and heir they proved most seriously complicated.

For Keith was heir, not only to his father's estate, but to that very considerable debt of
honour which Isaac had left unpaid. It seemed as if the Harden library, the symbol of a superb
intellectual vanity, was doomed to be in eternal necessity of redemption. Until yesterday it
had not occurred to Keith that it could be his destiny to redeem it. Yesterday he had refused
to let his mind dally with that possibility; to-day it had become the most fitting subject
of his contemplation.

The thing was more easily conceived than done. His literary income amounted, all told, to about
three hundred and fifty a year, but its sources were not absolutely secure. Metropolis or The
Planet might conceivably at any moment cease to be. And there was his marriage. It was put
off; but only for a matter of weeks. He had only a hundred and fifty pounds in ready money;
the rest had been swallowed up by the little house at Ealing. It was impossible to redeem the
Harden library unless he parted with his patrimony; which was, after all, his only safe and
imperishable source of income. Still, he had not the smallest hesitation on this head. Neither
he nor Flossie had taken it into their calculations when they agreed to marry, and he was not
going to consider it now.

The first step proved simple. Mrs. Rickman had no objection to buying him out. On the contrary,
she was thankful to get rid of a most reckless and uncomfortable partner. But in the present
state of the trade it was impossible to estimate his share at more than four thousand. That
covered the principal; but Isaac had paid no interest for more than two years; and that interest
Keith would have to pay. Though the four thousand was secure, and Pilkington had given him
three years to raise the seven hundred and fifty in, it was not so easily done on an income
of three hundred and fifty. Not easy in three years; and impossible in any number of years
if he married. Possible only, yes, just possible, if his marriage were postponed until such
time as he could have collected the money. Some brilliant stroke of luck might unexpectedly
reduce the term; but three years must be allowed. Metropolis and The Planet were surely good
for another three years. The other alternative, that of repudiating the obligation, never entered
his head for an instant. He could not have touched a shilling of his father's money till this
debt was cleared.

There could be no doubt as to what honour demanded of him. But how would Flossie take it? The
worst of it was that he was bound (in honour again) to give her the option of breaking off
their engagement, if she didn't care to wait. And after all that had passed between them it
might not be so easy to persuade her that he was not glad of the excuse; for he himself was
so lacking in conviction. Still she was very intelligent; and she would see that it wasn't
his fault if their marriage had to be put off. The situation was inevitable and impersonal,
and as such it was bound to be hard on somebody. He admitted that it was particularly hard
on Flossie. It would have been harder still if Flossie had been out of work; but Flossie, with
characteristic prudence, had held on to her post till the very eve of her wedding-day, and
had contrived to return to it when she foresaw the necessity for delay. Otherwise he would
have had to insist on providing for her until she was independent again; which would have complicated
matters really most horribly. It was quite horrible enough to have to explain all this to Flossie.
The last time he had explained things (for he had explained them) to Flossie the result had
not been exactly happy. But then the things themselves had been very different, and he had
had to admit with the utmost contrition that a woman could hardly have had more reasonable
grounds for resentment. That was all over and done with now. In that explanation they had explained
everything away. They had left no single thread of illusion hanging round the life they were
to live together. They accepted themselves and each other as they were. And in the absence
of any brighter prospect for either of them there was high wisdom in that acceptance.

If then there was a lack of rapture in his relations with Flossie, there would henceforth at
any rate be calm. Her temperament was, he judged, essentially placid, not to say apathetic.
There was a soft smoothness about the plump little lady that would be a security against friction.
She was not great at understanding; but, taking it all together, she was now in an infinitely
better position for understanding him than she had been two weeks ago. Besides, it was after
all a simple question of figures; and Flossie's attitude to figures was, unlike his own, singularly
uninfluenced by passion. She would take the sensible, practical view.

The sensible practical view was precisely what Flossie did take. But her capabilities of passion
he had again misjudged.

He chose his moment with discretion, when time and place and Flossie's mood were most propitious.
The time was Sunday evening, the place was the Regent's Park, Flossie's mood was gentle and
demure. She had been very nice to him since his father's death, and had shown him many careful
small attentions which, with his abiding sense of his own shortcomings towards her, he had
found extremely touching. She seemed to him somehow a different woman, not perhaps so pretty
as she had been, but nicer. He may have been the dupe of an illusory effect of toilette, for
Flossie was in black. She had discussed the propriety of mourning with Miss Bishop, and wore
it to-day for the first time with a pretty air of solemnity mingled with satisfaction in her
own delicate intimation that she was one with her lover in his grief. She had not yet discovered
that black was unbecoming to her, which would have been fatal to the mood.

The flowers were gay in the Broad Walk, Flossie tried to be gay too; and called on him to admire
their beauty. They sat down together on a seat in the embrasure of a bed of chrysanthemums.
Flossie was interested in everything, in the chrysanthemums, in the weather and in the passers-by--most
particularly interested, he noticed, in the family groups. Her black eyes, that glanced so
restlessly at the men and so jealously at the women, sank softly on the children, happy and
appeased. Poor Flossie. He had long ago divined her heart. He did his best to please her; he
sat down when she told him to sit down, stared when she told him to stare, and relapsed into
his now habitual attitude of dejection. A little girl toddled past him in play; stopped at
his knees and touched them with her hand and rubbed her small body against them, chuckling
with delight.

"The dear little mite," said Flossie; "she's taken quite a fancy to you, Keith." Her face was
soft and shy under her black veil, and when she looked at him she blushed. He turned his head
away. He could not meet that look in Flossie's eyes when he thought of what he had to say to
her. He was going to put the joy of life a little farther from her; to delay her woman's tender
ineradicable hope.

This was not the moment or the place to do it in. They rose and walked on, turning into the
open Park. And there, sitting under a solitary tree by the path that goes towards St. John's
Wood, he broke it to her gently.

"Flossie," he said, "I've something to tell you that you mayn't like to hear."

She made no sign of agitation beyond scraping a worn place in the grass with the tips of her
little shoes. "Well," she said, with an admirable attempt at patience, "what is it now?"

"You mean you think it's been about enough already?"

"If it's really anything unpleasant, for goodness' sake let's have it out and get it over."

"Right, Flossie. I'm awfully sorry, but I'm afraid we shan't be able to marry for another two
years, perhaps three."

"And why not?" Her black eyes darted a vindictive look at him under her soft veil.

"My father's death has made a difference to me."

Her lips tightened, and she drew a sharp but inaudible breath through her nostrils. He had
been wrong in supposing that she had not looked for any improvement in his finances after his
father's death. On the contrary, knowing of their reconciliation and deceived by the imposing
appearance of Rickman's in the Strand, she had counted on a very substantial increase of income.

"Do you mean to say, Keith, he hasn't left you anything?"

He laughed softly--an unpleasant way he had in situations where most people would consider
it only decent to keep grave.

"He has left me something. A bad debt."

"What have you got to do with his bad debts? Nobody can come down on you to pay them." She
paused. A horrible thought had struck her. "Can they? You don't mean to say they can?"

He shook his head and struggled with his monstrous mirth.

"Keith! What 'ave you done? You surely haven't been backing any bills?"

He laughed outright this time, for the sheer misery of the thing.

"No, oh dear me, no. Not in your sense at least."

"There isn't any other sense. Either you did or you didn't; and I think you might tell me which."

"It's not quite so simple, dear. I didn't back his bills, d'you see, but I backed him.'

"Can they make you responsible? Have they got it down in black and white?"

"Nobody can make me responsible, except myself. It's what they call a debt of honour, Flossie.
Those debts are not always down in black and white."

"Why can't you speak plain? I really can't think what you mean by that."

"Can't you? I'll endeavour to explain. A debt of honour, Beaver dear, is a debt that's got
to be paid whoever else goes unpaid."

"A fine lot of honour about that," said she.

Was it possible to make the Beaver understand? He, gave her a slight outline of the situation;
and he really could not complain of any fault in the Beaver's intelligence. For, by dint of
a masterly cross examination, she possessed herself of all the details, even of those which
he most desired to keep from her. After their last great explanation there had been more than
a tacit agreement between them that the name of Lucia Harden was never to come up again in
any future discussion; and that name he would not give. She, however, readily inferred it from
his silence.

"You needn't tell me the lady's name," said she.

"I certainly needn't. The name has nothing whatever to do with it.'"

"Oh, hasn't it? You'll not make me believe that you'd 'ave taken it up this way for any one
but her."

"Whether I would or wouldn't doesn't affect the point of honour."

"I don't see where it comes in there."

"If you don't I can't make you see it."

"I said I didn't see where it comes in--there. I know what's honourable as well as you, though
I daresay my notions wouldn't agree with yours."

"Upon my soul, I shouldn't wonder if they didn't!"

"Look here, Keith. Did you ever make Miss Harden any promise to pay her that money when your
father died?"

"Of course I didn't--How could I? Do you suppose she'd have let me do anything of the sort?"

"I don't know what she wouldn't have let you do. Anyhow you didn't make her any promise. Think
of the promises and promises you've made to me."

"I do think of them. Have I broken one of them?"

"I don't say you have yet; but you want to."

"I don't wa--I won't break them, I'll keep every one of the blessed lot, if you'll only give
me time."

"Give you time? I know what that means. It means that I'm to go back and earn my living. I
can slave till I drop for all you care--while you go and throw away all that money on another
woman. And I'm to give you time to do it in!"

"I won't ask you to wait for me. I'm perfectly willing to release you from your engagement
if you like. It seems only fair to you."

"You care a lot, don't you, about what's fair to me? I believe you'd take the bread out of
my mouth to give it to her."

"I would, Flossie, if it was her bread. That money doesn't belong to you or me; it belongs
to Miss Harden."

"It seems to me," said Flossie, "that everything belongs to her. I'm sure you've as good as
told me so."

"I've certainly given you some right to think so. But that has nothing to do with it; and we
agreed that we were going to let it alone, didn't we?"

"It wasn't me that brought it up again, it was you; and it's got everything to do with it.
You wouldn't have behaved like this, and you wouldn't be sitting there talking about what's
honourable, if it hadn't been for Miss Harden."

"That may very well be. But it doesn't mean what you think it does. It means that before I
knew Miss Harden I didn't know or care very much about what's honourable. She taught me to
care. I wasn't fit to speak to a decent woman before I knew her. She made me decent."

"Did she sit up half the night with you to do it?".

He made a gesture of miserable impatience.

"You needn't tell me. I can see her."

"You can't. She did it by simply being what she is. If I ever manage to do anything right it
will be because of her, as you say. But it doesn't follow that it'll be for her. There's a
great difference."

"I don't see it."

"You must try to see it. There's one thing I haven't told you about that confounded money.
It was I who let her in for losing it. Isn't that enough to make me keen?"

"You always were keen where she was concerned."

"Look here, Flossie, I thought you were going to give up this sort of thing?"

"So I was when I thought you were going to give her up. It doesn't look like it."

"My dear child, how can I give up what I never had or could have?"

"Well then--are you going to give up your idea?"

"No, I am not. But you can either give me up or wait for me, as I said. But if you marry me,
you must marry me and my idea too. You don't like my idea; but that's no reason why you shouldn't
like me."

"You're not taking much pains to make me like you."

"I'm taking all the pains I know. But your liking or not liking me won't alter me a little
bit. You'll have to take me as I am."

As she looked up at him she realized at last the indomitable nature of the man she had to deal
with. And yet he was not unalterable, even on his own showing. She knew some one who had altered
him out of all knowledge.

"Come," said she, "don't say you never change."

"I don't say it. You'll have to allow for that possibility, too."

"It seems to me I have to allow for a good many things."

"You have indeed."

"Well, are we going to sit here all night?"

"I'm ready."

They walked back in silence over the straight path that seemed as if it would never end. Flossie
stopped half-way in it, stung by an idea.

"There's something you haven't thought of. What are you going to do with the house? And with
all that furniture?"

"Let them to somebody. That's all right, Beaver. The house and the furniture can't run away."

"No, but they'll never be the same again."

Nothing would ever be the same again; that was clear. The flowers were still gay in the Broad
Walk, and the children, though a little sleepier, were still adorable; but Flossie did not
turn to look at them as she passed. Would she ever look at them, at anything, with pleasure
again? He had made life very difficult, very cruel to this poor child, whom after all he had
promised to protect and care for.

"I say, Beaver dear, it is hard luck on you."

The look and the tone would have softened most women, at least for the time being; but the
Beaver remained implacable.

"I'll try to make it easier for you. I'll work like mad. I'll do anything to shorten the time."

"Shorten the time? You don't know how many years you're asking me to wait."

"I'm not asking you to wait. I'm asking you to choose."

"Do you want me to do it now?"

"No, certainly not." She was not indeed in a mood favourable to choice; and he would not influence
her decision. It was mean to urge her to an arduous constancy; meaner still to precipitate
her refusal. "You must think. You can, you know, when you give your mind to it."

She appeared to be giving her mind to it for the rest of the way home; and her silence left
him also free to think it over. After all, what had he done? He had not asked her to wait,
but what if he had? Many men have to ask as much of the woman who loves them. Some men have
asked even more of the woman whom they love. That was the secret. He could have asked it with
a clear conscience if he had but loved her.

CHAPTER LXIV

Flossie was in no hurry about making up her mind. If Keith had asked her to give him time,
it was only fair that he should give her time too, and since his mind was made up in any case,
time could be no object to him. So days and weeks had passed on and she had conveyed to him
no hint of her decision.

On that Sunday evening, in the seclusion of her bedroom, Flossie said to herself that she had
made one great mistake. Prudence and foresight were all very well in their way, but this time
she had blundered through excess of caution. In sticking to the post that made her independent
she had broken her strongest line of defence. If only she had had the courage to relinquish
it at the crucial moment, she would have stood a very much better chance in her contest with
Keith. She could then have appealed to his pity as she had done with such signal success two
years ago, when the result of the appeal had been to bring him violently to the point. She
was wise enough to know that in contending with a chivalrous man a woman's strongest defence
is her defencelessness. Though she was unable to believe that pure abstract honour was or could
be the sole and supreme motive of Keith's behaviour, she felt that if she could have said to
him, "I've thrown up a good situation to marry you," his chivalry would not have held out against
that argument.

But Flossie never made mistakes. She was too consummate a diplomatist. Therefore, though appearances
were against her, it was only reasonable to suppose that she had not really done so now, and
that her original inspiration had been right. It was foresight so subtle, so advanced, that
it outstripped the ordinary processes of calculation, and appeared afterwards as the mysterious
leading of a profounder power, of the under-soul that presses the innocent intellect into the
services of its own elemental instincts. The people who yield most obediently to this compulsion
are said to have good luck.

Flossie's good luck, however, was not yet apparent either to herself or to her fellow-boarders
at Tavistock Place. Not that she had enlarged on her trouble to any of them. The whole thing
had been too profoundly humiliating for that. To say nothing of being engaged to a man who
had shown so very little impatience to marry her, to have taken and furnished a house and be
unable to live in it, to have received congratulations and wedding presents which had all proved
premature, to know, and feel that everybody else knew, that her bedroom was at this moment
lumbered up with a trousseau which, whether she wore it or put it by two years, would make
her equally ridiculous, was really a very trying position for any young lady, and to Flossie,
whose nature was most delicately sensitive to such considerations, it was torture. But, after
all, these things were material and external; and the worst of Flossie's suffering was in her
soul. Before the appearance of Miss Harden, the last two years had passed for Flossie in gorgeous
triumphal procession through the boarding-house. She had been the invincible heroine of Mrs.
Downey's for two years, she had dragged its young hero at her chariot wheels for two years,
she had filled the heart of Ada Bishop with envy and the hearts of Mr. Soper and Mr. Spinks
with jealousy and anguish for two years; and now she had all these people pitying her and looking
down on her because she had been so queerly treated; and this was even more intolerable to
poor Flossie. She knew perfectly well what every one of them was saying. She knew that Ada
Bishop had thanked Goodness she wasn't in her shoes; that Miss Bramble spoke of her persistently
as "that poor young thing"; that Mrs. Downey didn't know which she pitied most, her or poor
Mr. Rickman. He was poor Mr. Rickman, if you please, because he was considered to have entangled
himself so inextricably with her. She knew that Miss Roots maintained that it was all her (Flossie's)
own fault for holding Keith to his engagement; that Mr. Partridge had wondered why girls were
in such a hurry to get married; and that Mr. Soper said she'd made a great mistake in ever
taking up with a young fellow you could depend on with so little certainty. And the burden
of it all was that Flossie had made a fool of herself and been made a fool of. So she was very
bitter in her little heart against the man who was the cause of it all; and if she did not
instantly throw Keith Rickman over, that was because Flossie was not really such a fool as
for the moment she had been made to look.

But there was one person of the boarding-house whose opinion was as yet unknown to Flossie
or to anybody else; it was doubtful indeed if it was known altogether to himself; for Mr. Spinks
conceived that honour bound him to a superb reticence on the subject. He had followed with
breathless anxiety every turn in the love affairs of Flossie and his friend. He could not deny
that a base and secret exultation had possessed him on the amazing advent of Miss Harden; for
love had made him preternaturally keen, and he was visited with mysterious intimations of the
truth. He did not encourage these visitings. He had tried hard to persuade himself that he
was glad for Flossie's sake when Miss Harden went away; when, whatever there had been between
Rickets and the lady, it had come to nothing; when the wedding day remained fixed, immovably
fixed. But he had not been glad at all. On the contrary he had suffered horribly, and had felt
the subsequent delay as a cruel prolongation of his agony. In the irony of destiny, shortly
before the fatal twenty-fifth, Mr. Spinks had been made partner in his uncle's business, and
was now enjoying an income superior to Rickman's not only in amount but in security. If anything
could have added to his dejection it was that. His one consolation hitherto had been that after
all, if Rickman did marry Flossie, as he was not in a position to marry her, it came to the
same thing in the long run. Now he saw himself cut off from that source of comfort by a solid
four hundred a year with prospects of a rise. He could forego the obviously impossible; but
in that rosy dawn of incarnation his dream appeared more than ever desirable. Whenever Mr.
Spinks's imagination encountered the idea of marriage it had tried to look another way. Marriage
remote and unattainable left Mr. Spinks's imagination in comparative peace; but brought within
the bounds of possibility its appeal was simply maddening. And now, bringing it nearer still,
so near that it was impossible to look another way, there came these disturbing suggestions
of a misunderstanding between Rickman and his Beaver. The boarding-house knew nothing but that
the wedding was put off because Rickman was in difficulties and could not afford to marry at
the moment. Spinks would have accepted this explanation as sufficient if it had not been for
the peculiar behaviour of Rickman, and the very mysterious and agitating change in Flossie's
manner. Old Rickets had returned to his awful solitude. He absented himself entirely from the
dinner-table. When you met him on the stairs he was incommunicative and gloomy; and whatever
you asked him to do he was too busy to do it. His sole attention to poor Flossie was to take
her for an occasional airing in the Park on Sunday afternoons. Spinks had come across them
there walking sadly side by side. Flossie for propriety's sake would be making a little conversation
as he went by; but Rickman had always the shut mouth and steady eyes of invincible determination.

What was it that Razors was so determined about? To marry Flossie? Or not to marry her? That
was the question which agitated poor Spinks from morning till night, or rather from night till
morning. The worst of it was that the very nature of his woes compelled him as an honourable
person to keep them to himself.

But there was no secret which could be long concealed from the eyes of that clever lady, Miss
Roots; and she had contrived in the most delicate manner to convey to the unfortunate youth
that he had her sympathy. Spinks, bound by his honour, had used no words in divulging his agony;
but their unspoken confidences had gone so far that Miss Roots at last permitted herself to
say that it might be as well to find out whether "it was on or off."

"But," said the miserable Spinks, "would that be fair to Rickman?"

"I think so," said the lady, with a smile that would have been sweet had it been rather less
astute. "Mind you, I'm not in their secrets; but I believe you really needn't be afraid of that."

"Yes. But how in Heaven's name am I to find out? I can't ask him, and I can't ask her."

"Why can't you ask them?"

Spinks was unable to say why; but his delicacy shrank from either course as in some subtle
way unfair. Besides he distrusted Miss Roots's counsel, for she had not been nice to Flossie.

"Oh Lord," said Spinks, "what an orful mess I'm in!" He said it to himself; for he had resolved
to talk no longer to Miss Roots.

He could have borne it better had not the terrible preoccupation of Rickman thrown Flossie
on his hands. In common decency he had to talk to her at the dinner-table. But it was chivalry
(surely) that drew him to her in the drawing-room afterwards. She had to be protected (poor
Flossie) from the shrewdness of Miss Roots, the impertinence of Mr. Soper, and the painful
sympathy of the other boarders. With the very best and noblest intentions in the world, Mr.
Spinks descended nightly into that atmosphere of gloom, and there let loose his imperishable
hilarity.

He was quite safe, he knew, as long as their relations could be kept upon a purely hilarious
footing; but Flossie's manner intimated (what it had never intimated before) that she now realized
and preferred the serious side of him; and there was no way by which the humorous Spinks was
more profoundly flattered than in being taken seriously. Some nights they had the drawing-room
to themselves but for the harmless presence of Mr. Partridge dozing in his chair; and then,
to see Flossie struggling to keep a polite little smile hovering on a mouth too tiny to support
it; to see her give up the effort and suddenly become grave; to see her turn away to hide her
gravity with all the precautions another woman takes to conceal her merriment; to see her sitting
there, absolutely unmoved by the diverting behaviour of Mr. Partridge in his slumber, was profoundly
agitating to Mr. Spinks.

"I'm sure," said Flossie one night (it was nearly three weeks after the scene with Rickman
in the Park), "I'm sure I don't know why we're laughing so much. There's nothing to laugh at
that I can see."

Spinks could have have replied in Byron's fashion that if he laughed 'twas that he might not
weep, but he restrained himself; and all he said was, "I like to see you larf."

"Well, you can't say you've ever seen me cry."

"No, I haven't. I shouldn't like to see that, Flossie. And I shouldn't like to be the one that
made you."

"Wouldn't you?" Flossie put her pocket handkerchief to her little nose, and under the corner
of it there peeped the tail-end of a lurking smile.

"No," said Spinks simply, "I wouldn't." He was thinking of Miss Roots. The theory of Rickman's
bad behaviour had never entered his head. "What's more, I don't think any nice person would do it."

"Don't you?"

"No. Not any really nice person."

"It's generally," said Flossie, sweetly meditative, "the nicest person you know who can make
you cry most. Not that I'm crying."

"No. But I can see that somebody's been annoying you, and I think I can guess pretty well who
it is, too. Nothing would please me more than to 'ave five minutes' private conversation with
that person." He was thinking of Miss Harden now.

"You mustn't dream of it. It wouldn't do, you know; it really wouldn't. Look here, promise
me you'll never say a word."

"Well it's safe enough to promise. There aren't many opportunities of meeting."

"No, that's the worst of it, there aren't now. Still, you might meet him any minute on the
stairs, or anywhere. And if you go saying things you'll only make him angry."

"Oh it's a him, is it?" (Now he was thinking of Soper.) "I know. Don't say Soper's been making
himself unpleasant."

"He's always unpleasant."

"Is he? By 'Eaven, if I catch him!"

"Do be quiet. It isn't Mr. Soper."

"Isn't it?"

"No. How could it be? You don't call Mr. Soper nice, do you?"

Spinks was really quiet for a moment. "I say, Flossie, have you and Rickets been 'aving a bit
of a tiff?"

"What do you want to know that for? It's nothing to you."

"Well, it isn't just my curiosity. It's because I might be able to help you, Floss, if you
didn't mind telling me what it was. I'm not a clever fellow, but there's no one in this house
understands old Razors as well as I do."

"Then you must be pretty sharp, for I can't understand him at all. Has he been saying anything
to you?"

"Oh no, he wouldn't say anything. You don't talk about these things, you know."

"I thought he might--to you."

"Me? I'm the very last person he'd dream of talking to."

"I thought you were such friends."

"So we are. But you see he never talks about you to me, Flossie."

"Why ever not?"

"That's why. Because we're friends. Because he wouldn't think it fair--"

"Fair to who?"

"To me, of course."

"Why shouldn't it be fair to you?" Her eyes, close-lidded, were fixed upon the floor. As long
as she looked at him Spinks held himself well in hand; but the sudden withdrawing of those
dangerous weapons threw him off his guard.

"Because he knows I--Oh hang it all, that's what I swore I wouldn't say."

"You haven't said it."

"No, but I've made you see it."

His handsome face stiffened with horror at his stupidity. To let fall the slightest hint of
his feeling was, he felt, the last disloyalty to Rickman. He had a vague idea that he ought
instantly to go. But instead of going he sat there, silent, fixing on his own enormity a mental
stare so concentrated that it would have drawn Flossie's attention to it, if she had not seen
it all the time.

"If there's anything to see," said she, "there's no reason why I shouldn't see it."

"P'raps not. There's every reason, though, why I should have held my silly tongue."

"Why, what difference does it make?"

"It doesn't make any difference to you, of course, and it can't make any difference--really--to
him; but it's a downright dishonourable thing to do, and that makes a jolly lot of difference
to me. You see, I haven't any business to go and feel like this."

"Oh well, you can't help your feelings, can you?" she said softly. "Anybody may have feelings--"

"Yes, but a decent chap, you know, wouldn't let on that he had any--at least, not when the
girl he--he--you know what I mean, it's what I mustn't say--when she and the other fellow weren't
hitting it off very well together."

"Oh, you think it might make a difference then?"

"No, I don't--not reelly. It's only the feeling I have about it, don't you see. It seems somehow
so orf'ly mean. Razors wouldn't have done it if it had been me, you know."

"But it couldn't have been you."

"Of course it couldn't," said the miserable Spinks with a weak spurt of anger; "that was only
my way of putting it."

"What are you driving at? What ever did you think I said?"

"Never mind what you said. You're making me talk about it, and I said I wouldn't."

"When did you say that?"

"Ages ago--when Rickets first told me you--and he--"

"Oh that? That was so long ago that it doesn't matter much now."

"Oh, doesn't it though, it matters a jolly sight more. You said" (there was bitterness in his
tone), "you said it couldn't have been me. As if I didn't know that."

"I didn't mean it couldn't have been you, not in that way. I only meant that you'd have--well,
you'd have behaved very differently, if it had been you; and so I believe you would."

"You don't know how I'd 'ave behaved."

"I've a pretty good idea, though." She looked straight at him this time, and he grew strangely
brave.

"Look here, Flossie," he said solemnly, "you know--as I've just let it out--that I'm most orf'ly
gone on you. I don't suppose there's anything I wouldn't do for you except--well, I really
don't know what you're driving at, but if it's anything to do with Razors, I'd rather not hear
about it, if you don't mind. It isn't fair, really. You see, it's putting me in such a 'orribly
delicate position."

"I don't think you're very kind, Sidney. You don't think of me, or what sort of a position
you put me in. I'm sure I wouldn't have said a word, only you asked me to tell you all about
it; you needn't say you didn't."

"That was when I thought, p'raps, I could help you to patch it up. But if I can't, it's another
matter."

"Patch it up? Do you think I'd let you try? I don't believe in patching things up, once they're--broken
off."

"I say Flossie, it hasn't come to that?"

"It couldn't come to anything else, the way it was going."

"Oh Lord"--Spinks buried a crimson face in his hands. If only he hadn't felt such a horrible
exultation!

"I thought you knew. Isn't that what we've been talking about all the time?"

"I didn't understand. I only thought--he didn't tell me, mind you--I thought it was just put
off because he couldn't afford to marry quite so soon."

"Don't you think three hundred a year is enough to marry on?"

"Well, I shouldn't care to marry on that myself; not if it wasn't regular. He's quite right,
Flossie. You see, a man hasn't got only his wife to think of."

"No--I suppose he must think of himself a little too."

"Oh well, no; if he's a decent chap, he thinks of his children."

Flossie's face was crimson, too, while her thoughts flew to that unfurnished room in the brown
house at Ealing. She was losing sight of Keith Rickman; for behind Keith Rickman there was
Sidney Spinks; and behind Sidney Spinks there was the indomitable Dream. She did not look at
Spinks, therefore, but gazed steadily at the top of Mr. Partridge's head. With one word Spinks
had destroyed the effect he had calculated on from his honourable reticence. Perhaps it was
because Flossie's thoughts had flown so far that her voice seemed to come from somewhere a
long way off, too.

"What would you think enough to marry on, then?"

"Well, I shouldn't care to do it much under four hundred myself," he said guardedly.

"And I suppose if you hadn't it you'd expect a girl to wait for you any time until you'd made it?"

"Well of course I should, if we were engaged already. But I shouldn't ask any girl to marry
me unless I could afford to keep her--"

"You wouldn't ask, but--"

"No, and I wouldn't let on that I cared for her either. I wouldn't let on under four hundred--certain."

"Oh," said Flossie very quietly. And Spinks was crushed under a sense of fresh disloyalty to
Rickman. His defence of Rickman had been made to turn into a pleading for himself. "But Razors
is different; he'll be making twice that in no time, you'll see. I shouldn't be afraid to ask
any one if I was him."

Vainly the honourable youth sought to hide his splendour; Flossie had drawn from him all she
needed now to know.

"Look, here, Floss, you say it's broken off. Would you mind telling me was it you--or was it
he who did it?" His tone expressed acute anxiety on this point, for in poor Spinks's code of
honour it made all the difference. But he felt that his question was clearly answered, for
the silence of Razors argued sufficiently that it was he.

"Well," said Flossie with a touch of maidenly dignity, "whichever it was, it wasn't likely
to be Keith."

Spinks's face would have fallen, but for its immense surprise. In this case Rickman ought,
yes, he certainly ought to have told him. It wasn't behaving quite straight, he considered,
to keep it from the man who had the best right in the world to know, a fellow who had always
acted straight with him. But perhaps, poor chap, he was only waiting a little on the chance
of the Beaver changing her mind.

"Don't you think, Flossie, that if he tried hard he could bring it on again?"

"No, he couldn't. Never. Not if he tried from now till next year. Not if he went on his bended
knees to me."

Spinks reflected that Rickman's knees didn't take kindly to bending. "Haven't you been a little,
just a little hard on him? He's such a sensitive little chap. If I was a woman I don't think
I could let him go like that. You might let him have another try."

Poor Spinks was so earnest, so sincere, so unaffectedly determined not to take advantage of
the situation, that it dawned on Flossie that dignity must now yield a little to diplomacy.
She was not making the best possible case for herself by representing the rupture as one-sided.
"To tell you the truth, Sidney, he doesn't want to try. We've agreed about it. We've both of
us found we'd made a great mistake--".

"I wish I could be as sure of that."

"Why, what difference could it make to you?" said Flossie, turning on him the large eyes of
innocence, eyes so dark, so deep, that her thoughts were lost in them.

"It would make all the difference in the world, if I knew you weren't making a lot bigger mistake
now." He rose, "I think, if you don't mind, I'll 'ave a few words with Rickets, after all.
I think I'll go up and see him now."

There was no change in the expression of her eyes, but her eyelids quivered. "No, Sidney, don't.
For Goodness' sake don't go and say anything."

"I'm not going to say anything. I only want to know--"

"I've told you everything--everything I can."

"Yes; but it's what you can't tell me that I want to know."

"Well, but do wait a bit. Don't you speak to him before I see him. Because I don't want him
to think I've given him away."

"I'll take good care he doesn't think that, Flossie. But I'm going to get this off my mind
to-night."

"Well then, you must just take him a message from me. Say, I've thought it over and that I've
told you everything. Don't forget. I've told you everything, say. Mind you tell him that before
you begin about anything else. Then he'll understand."

"All right. I'll tell him."

Her eyes followed him dubiously as he stumbled over Mr. Partridge's legs in his excited crossing
of the room. She was by no means sure of her ambassador's discretion. His heart would make
no blunder; but could she trust his head?

Up to this point Flossie had played her game with admirable skill. She had, without showing
one card of her own, caused Spinks to reveal his entire hand. It was not until she had drawn
from him the assurance of his imperishable devotion, together with the exact amount of his
equally imperishable income, that she had committed herself to a really decisive move. She
was perfectly well aware of its delicacy and danger. Not for worlds would she have had Spinks
guess that Rickman was still waiting for her decision. And yet, if Spinks referred rashly and
without any preparation to the breaking off of the engagement, Rickman's natural reply would
be that this was the first he had heard of it. Therefore did she so manoeuvre and contrive
as to make Rickman suppose that Spinks was the accredited bearer of her ultimatum, while Spinks
himself remained unaware that he was conveying the first intimation of it. It was an exceedingly
risky thing to do. But Flossie, playing for high stakes, had calculated her risk to a nicety.
She must make up her mind to lose something. As the game now stood the moral approbation of
Spinks was more valuable to her than the moral approbation of Rickman; and in venturing this
final move she had reckoned that the moral approbation of Rickman was all she had to lose.
Unless, of course, he chose to give her away.

But Rickman could be trusted not to give her away.

When Spinks presented himself in Rickman's study he obtained admission in spite of the lateness
of the hour. The youth's solemn agitation was not to be gainsaid. He first of all delivered
himself of Flossie's message, faithfully, word for word.

"Oh, so she's told you everything, has she? And what did she tell you?"

"Why, that it was all over between you, broken off, you know."

"And you've come to me to know if it's true, is that it?"

"Well no, why should I? Of course it's true if she says so."

Rickman reflected for a moment; the situation, he perceived, was delicate in the extreme, delicate
beyond his power to deal with it. But the god did not forsake his own, and inspiration came to him.

"You're right there, Spinky. Of course it's true if she says so."

"She seemed to think you wouldn't mind her telling me. She said you'd understand."

"Oh yes, I think I understand. Did she tell you she had broken it off?" (He was really anxious
to know how she had put it.)

"Yes, but she was most awfully nice about it. I made out--I mean she gave me the impression--that
she did it, well, partly because she thought you wanted it off. But that's just what I want
to be sure about. Do you want it off, or don't you?"

"Is that what she wants to know?"

"No. It's what I want to know. What's more, Rickets, I think I've got a fair right to know
it, too."

"What do you want me to say? That I don't want to marry Miss Walker or that I do?"

Spinks's face flushed with the rosy dawn of an idea. It was possible that Rickets didn't want
to marry her, that he was in need of protection, of deliverance. There was a great deed that
he, Spinks, could do for Rickets. His eyes grew solemn as they beheld his destiny.

"Look here," said he, "I want you to tell me nothing but the bally truth. It's the least you
can do under the circumstances. I don't want it for her, well--yes I do--but I want it for
myself, too."

"All right, Spinky, you shall have the best truth I can give you at such uncommonly short notice.
I can't say I don't want to marry Miss Walker, because that wouldn't be very polite to the
lady. But I can say I think she's shown most admirable judgement, and that I'm perfectly satisfied
with her decision. I wouldn't have her go back, on it for worlds. Will that satisfy you?"

"It would if I thought you really meant it."

"I do mean it, God forgive me. But that isn't her fault, poor little girl. The whole thing
was the most infernal muddle and mistake."

"Ah--that was what she called it--a mistake." Spinks seemed to be clinging to and cherishing
this word of charm.

"I'm glad for her sake that she found it out in time. I'm not the sort of man a girl like Flossie
ought to marry. I ought never to have asked her."

"Upon my soul, Rickets, I believe you're right there. That's not saying anything against you,
or against her either."

"No. Certainly not against her. She's all right, Spinky--"

"I know, I know."

Still Spinks hesitated, restraining his ardent embrace of the truth presented to him, held
back by some scruple of shy unbelieving modesty.

"Then you think, you really do think, that there isn't any reason why I shouldn't cut in?"

"No, Heaven bless you; no reason in the world, as far as I'm concerned. For God's sake cut
in and win; the sooner the better. Now, this minute, if you feel like it."

But still he lingered, for the worst was yet to come. He lingered, nursing a colossal scruple.
Poor Spinks's honour was dear to him because it was less the gift of nature than the supreme
imitative effort of his adoring heart. He loved honour because Rickman loved it; just as he
had loved Flossie for the same reason. These were the only ways in which he could imitate him;
and like all imitators he exaggerated the master's manner.

"I say, I don't know what you'll think of me. I said I'd never let on to Flossie that I cared;
and I didn't mean to, I didn't on my word. I don't know how it happened; but to-night we got
talking--to tell you the truth I thought I was doing my best to get her to make it up with you--"

"Thanks; that was kind," said Rickman in a queer voice which put Spinks off a bit.

"I was really, Razors. I do believe I'd have died rather than let her know how I felt about
her; but before I could say knife--"

"She got it out of you?"

"No, she didn't do anything of the sort. It was all me. Like a damn fool I let it out--some'ow."

Nothing could have been more demoralizing than the spectacle of Spinks's face as he delivered
himself of his immense confession; so fantastically did it endeavour to chasten rapture with
remorse. Rickman controlled himself the better to enjoy it; for Spinks, taken seriously, yielded
an inexhaustible vein of purest comedy. "Oh, Spinky," he said with grave reproach, "how could you?"

"Well, I know it was a beastly dishonourable thing to do; but you see I was really most awkwardly
situated."

"I daresay you were." It was all very well to laugh; but in spite of his amusement he sympathized
with Spinky's delicacy. He also had found himself in awkward situations more than once.

"Still," continued Spinks with extreme dejection, "I can't think how I came to let it out."

That, and the dejection, was too much for Rickman's gravity.

"If you want the truth, Spinky, the pity was you ever kept it in."

And his laughter, held in, piled up, monstrous, insane, ungovernable, broke forth, dispersing
the last scruple that clouded the beatitude of Spinks.

CHAPTER LXV

Often, after half a night spent in a vain striving to shape some immense idea into the form
of beauty, be had turned the thing neck and crop out of his mind and gone to sleep on it. Whenever
he did this he was sure to wake up and find it there waiting for him, full-formed and perfect
as he had dreamed it and desired. It had happened so often that he had grown to trust this
profounder inspiration of his sleep.

Hitherto it was only the problems of his heart that had been thus divinely dealt with; he had
been left to struggle hopelessly with the problems of his life; and of these Flossie was the
most insoluble. And now that he had given up thinking of her, had abandoned her to her own
mysterious workings, it too had been solved and in the same simple, inevitable way. His contempt
for Flossie's methods could not blind him to the beneficence of the result.

He wrote to her that night to the effect that he gladly and entirely acquiesced in her decision;
but that he should have thought that he and not Mr. Spinks had been entitled to the first intimation
of it. He had no doubt, however, that she had done the best and wisest thing. He forbore to
add "for both of us." His chivalry still persisted in regarding Flossie as a deeply injured
person. He had wronged her from the beginning. Had he not laid on her, first the burden of
his passion, and yet again the double burden of his genius and his honour? A heavier load,
that, and wholly unfitted for the poor little back that would have had to bear it. It never
occurred to him that he had been in any way the victim of Flossie's powerful instincts. It
was Maddox who said that Mr. Spinks had made himself immortal by his marriage; that he should
be put on the Civil List for his services to literature.

Of Rickman's place in literature there could be no question for the next two or three years.
He foresaw that the all-important thing was his place on The Planet, his place on Metropolis,
his place (if he could find one) on any other paper. He had looked to journalism for the means
to support a wife, and journalism alone could maintain him in his struggle with Pilkington.
Whether Maddox was right or wrong in his opinion of the disastrous influence of Flossie, there
could be no doubt that for the present Rickman's genius had no more formidable rival than his
honour. If it is perdition to a great tragic dramatist when passion impels him to marry on
three hundred a year, it can hardly be desirable that conscience should constrain him to raise
seven hundred and fifty pounds in three years. Fate seemed bent in forcing him to live his
tragedies rather than write them; but Rickman, free of Flossie, faced the desperate prospect
with the old reckless spirit of his youth.

For the first year the prospect did not look so very desperate. He had found cheap rooms unfurnished
in Torrington Square where the houses are smaller and less sumptuous than Mrs. Downey's. He
had succeeded in letting the little house in Ealing, where the abominable furniture that had
nearly cost so dear justified its existence by adding a small sum to his income. He had benefited
indirectly by Rankin's greatness; for Rankin seldom contributed anything to The Planet now
beyond his lively column once a week; and Rickman was frequently called on to fill his place.
The Planet was good for at least a solid hundred a year; Metropolis (once it began to pay)
for a solid two hundred and fifty or more; other papers for small and varying sums. When he
totted it all up together he found that he was affluent. He could reckon on a round four hundred
all told. In Torrington Square, by the practice of a little ingenious economy, he could easily
live on a hundred and twenty-five; so that by the end of the first year he should have saved
the considerable sum of two hundred and seventy-five pounds. At that rate, in three years--no,
in two years and a--well, in rather more than two and a half years the thing would be done.
By a little extra exertion he might be able to reduce it to two years; to one, perhaps, by
a magnificent stroke of luck. Such luck, for instance, as a stage success, a run of a hundred
nights for the tragedy whose First Act he was writing now.

That, of course, it would be madness to count on; but he had some hopes from the sudden and
extraordinary transformation of The Museion.

Sudden enough, to the uninitiated, seeing that in September, ninety-seven, the organ of philosophic
criticism to all appearances died, and that in October it burst into life again under a new
cover and a new title, Jewdwine himself sounding the trump of resurrection. The Museion's old
contributors knew it no more; or failed to recognise it in Metropolis. On the tinted cover
there was no trace of the familiar symbolic head-piece, so suggestive of an Ionic frieze, but
the new title in the broadest, boldest, blackest of type proclaimed its almost wanton repudiation
of the old tradition.

Jewdwine's first "concession to modernity," was a long leading review of the "Art of Herbert
Rankin." Herbert Rankin was so much amused with it that it kept him quiet for at least three
weeks in his playground of The Planet. After such a handsome appreciation as that, he had to
wait a decent interval before "going for Jewdwine." When he remarked to Rickman that it would
have been more to the purpose if Jewdwine had devoted his six columns to the Art of S.K.R.,
Rickman blushed and turned his head away, as if Rankin had been guilty of some gross indelicacy.
He was still virginally sensitive where Jewdwine was concerned.

But, in a sense not intended by Rankin, Jewdwine was very much occupied, not to say perturbed
by the art of S.K.R. Not exactly to the exclusion of every other interest; for Rickman, looking
in on the great editor one afternoon, found him almost enthusiastic over his "last discovery."
A new poet, according to Jewdwine, had arisen in the person of an eminent Cabinet Minister,
who in ninety-seven was beguiling the tedium of office with a very pretty playing on the pastoral
pipe. Mr. Fulcher's In Arcadia lay on the editorial table, bound in white vellum, with the
figure of the great God Pan symbolizing Mr. Fulcher, on the cover. Jewdwine's attitude to Mr.
Fulcher was for Jewdwine humble, not to say reverent. He intimated to Rickman that in Fulcher
he had found what he had wanted.

Jewdwine in the early days of Metropolis wore the hungry look of a man who, having swallowed
all his formulas, finds himself unnourished. "The soul," Jewdwine used to say (perverting Emerson)
"is appeased by a formula"; and it was clear that his soul would never be appeased until it
had found a new one. Those who now conversed intimately with Jewdwine were entertained no longer
with the Absolute, but they heard a great deal about the "Return to Nature." Mr. Fulcher's
pipings, therefore, were entirely in harmony with Jewdwine's change of mood.

But Rickman, who had once protested so vigorously against the Absolute, would not hear of the
Return to Nature, either. That cry was only a symptom of the inevitable sickness of the academic
spirit, surfeited with its own philosophy. He shook his head mournfully over Mr. Fulcher. What
looked to Jewdwine like simplicity seemed to him only a more intolerably sophisticated pose
than any other.

"I prefer Mr. Fulcher in Downing Street to Mr. Fulcher in Arcadia. Mr. Fulcher," he said, "can
no more return to Nature than he can enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born."

He walked up and down the little office excitedly, while he drew for Jewdwine's benefit an
unattractive picture of the poet as babe, drinking from the breasts of the bounteous mother.
"You can't go for ever hanging on your mother's breasts; it isn't decent and it isn't manly.
Return to Nature! It's only too easy to return, and stay. You'll do no good at all if you've
never been there; but if you mean to grow up you must break loose and get away. The great mother
is inclined to bug some of her children rather too tight, I fancy; and by Heaven! it's pretty
tough work for some of them wriggling out of her arms."

He came to a sudden standstill, and turned on Jewdwine the sudden leaping light of the blue
eyes that seemed to see through Jewdwine and beyond him. No formula could ever frame and hold
for him that vision of his calling which had come to him four years ago on Harcombe Hill. He
had conceived and sung of Nature, not as the indomitable parent by turns tyrannous and kind,
but as the virgin mystery, the shy and tender bride that waits in golden abysmal secrecy for
the embrace of spirit, herself athirst for the passionate immortal hour. He foresaw the supreme
and indestructible union. He saw one eternal nature and a thousand forms of art, differing
according to the virile soul. And what he saw he endeavoured to describe to Jewdwine. "That
means, mind you, that your poet is a grown-up man and not a slobbering infant."

"Exactly. And Nature will be the mother of his art, as I said."

"As you didn't say--The mother only. There isn't any immaculate conception of truth. Don't
you believe it for a moment."

Jewdwine retired into himself a moment to meditate on that telling word. He wondered what lay
beyond it.

"And Art," continued Rickman, "is truth, just because it isn't Nature."

"If you mean," said Jewdwine, seeking a formula, "that modern art is essentially subjective,
I agree with you."

"I mean that really virile and original art--the art, I believe of the future--must spring
from the supreme surrender of Nature to the human soul."

"And do you honestly believe that the art of the future will be one bit more 'virile' than
the art of the present day?"

"On the whole I do."

"Well, I don't. I see nothing that makes for it. No art can hold out for ever against commercialism.
The nineteenth century has been commercial enough in all conscience, bestially, brutally commercial;
but its commercialism and brutality will be nothing to the commercialism and brutality of the
twentieth. If these things are deadly to art now, they'll be ten times more deadly then. The
mortality, among poets, my dear Rickman, will be something terrific."

"Not a bit of it. The next century, if I'm not mistaken, will see a pretty big flare up of
a revolution; and the soul will come out on top. Robespierre and Martin Luther won't be in
it, Jewdwine, with the poets of that school."

"I'm glad you feel able to take that view of it. I don't seem to see the poets of the twentieth
century myself."

"I see them all right," said Rickman, simply. "They won't be the poets of Nature, like the
nineteenth century chaps; they'll be the poets of human nature--dramatic poets, to a man. Of
course, it'll take a revolution to produce that sort."

"A revolution? A cataclysm, you mean."

"No. If you come to think of it, it's only the natural way a healthy poet grows. Look at Shakespeare.
I believe, you know, that most poets would grow into dramatic poets if they lived long enough.
Only sometimes they don't live; and sometimes they don't grow. Lyric poets are cases of arrested
development, that's all."

Jewdwine listened with considerable amusement as his subordinate propounded to him this novel
view. He wondered what literary enormity Rickman might be contemplating now. That he had something
at the back of his mind was pretty evident. Jewdwine meant to lie low till, from that obscure
region, Rickman, as was his wont, should have brought out his monster for inspection.

He produced it the next instant, blushingly, tenderly, yet with no diminution of his sublime
belief.

"You see--you'll think it sheer lunacy, but--I've a sort of idea that if I'm to go on at all,
myself, it must be on those lines. Modern poetic drama--It's that or nothing, you know."

Jewdwine's face said very plainly that he had no doubt whatever of the alternative. It also
expressed a curious and indefinable relief.

"Modern poetic drama? So that's your modest ambition, is it?"

Rickman owned that indeed it was.

"My dear fellow, modern poetic drama is a contradiction in all its terms. There are only three
schools of poetry possible--the classic, the romantic and the natural. Art only exists by one
of three principles, normal beauty, spiritual spontaneity, and vital mystery or charm. And
none of these three is to be found in modern life." These were the laws he had laid down in
the Prolegomena to Æsthetics, which Rickman, in the insolence of his genius, had defied. Somehow
the life seemed to have departed from those stately propositions, but Jewdwine clung to them
in a desperate effort to preserve his critical integrity. He was soothed by the sound of his
own voice repeating them. He caught as it were an echo of the majestic harmonies that once
floated through his lecture-room at Lazarus. "Besides," he went on, "where will you find your
drama to begin with?"

"In modern men and women."

"But modern men and women are essentially undramatic, and unpoetic."

"Still, I must take them, because, you see, there's nothing else to take. There never was or
will be. The men and women of Shakespeare's time were modern to him, you know. If they seem
poetic to us, that's because a poet made them so; and he made them so because he saw that--essentially--they
were so."

Jewdwine pushed out his lips in the manner of one unwillingly dubious.

"My dear Rickman, you have got to learn your limitations; or if not your limitations, the limitations
made for you by the ridiculous and unlovely conditions of modern life."

"I have learnt them. After all, what am I to do? I am modern--modern as my hat," said Rickman,
turning it in his hands. "I admit that my hat isn't even a fugitive form of the eternal and
absolute beauty. It is, I'm afraid, horribly like everybody else's hat. In moments of profound
insight I feel that I am horribly like everybody else. If it wasn't for that I should have
no hope of achieving my modest ambition."

"I'm not saying anything against your modesty or your ambition. I'm not defying you to write
a modern blank verse play; but I defy anybody to act one."

"I know," said Rickman, "it's sad of course, but to the frivolous mind of a critic there always
will be something ridiculous in the notion of blank verse spouted on the stage by a person
in a frock-coat and a top-hat. But do you think you'd see that frock-coat and top-hat if once
the great tragic passions got inside them?"

"Where are the great tragic passions?"

"They exist and are poetic."

"As survivals only. They are poetic but not modern. We have the passions of the divorce-court
and the Stock Exchange. They are modern, if you like, but not strikingly poetic."

"Well--even a stock-broker--if you insist on stockbrokers--"

"I don't. Take the people--take the women I know, the women you know. Is there--honestly, is
there any poetry in them?"

"There is--heaps. Oceans of poetry--There always has been and will be. It's the poets, the
great poets that don't turn up to time."

"Well; I don't care how great a poet you may be. Modern poetic drama is the path of perdition
for you. I wish," he added with an unmistakable air of turning to a subject of real interest.
"I wish I knew what to do with Fulcher."

"I don't know. I only know Mr. Fulcher's art hasn't much to do with nature. I'm afraid it's
the illegitimate offspring of Mr. Fulcher and some young shepherdess of Covent Garden."

"He seems to have proved himself pretty much at home in Arcadia."

"Don't you believe him. He's only at home in Downing Street. You'd better leave him there."

But Jewdwine did not leave him there. He exalted Mr. Fulcher to the seventh heaven in four
and a half columns of Metropolis. With his journalistic scent for the alluring and the vivid
phrase, he took everything notable that Rickman had said and adapted it to Mr. Fulcher. In
Arcadia supplying a really golden opportunity for a critical essay on "Truth to Nature," wherein
Mr. Fulcher learnt, to his immense bewilderment, that there is no immaculate conception of
that truth; but that to Mr. Fulcher, as poet, belonged the exultation of paternity. Jewdwine
quoted Coleridge to the effect that Mr. Fulcher only received what he was pleased to give,
and that in Mr. Fulcher's life alone did Nature live. And when Rankin, falling on that article,
asked Maddox what it meant, Maddox replied that it meant nothing except that Mr. Fulcher was
a Cabinet Minister.

But within three months of the day on which Jewdwine had pronounced the modern poetic drama
to be dead, Rickman had written the First Act of his tragedy which proved it (as far as a First
Act can prove anything) to be very much alive.

Jewdwine received the announcement of this achievement with every appearance of pleasure. He
was indeed genuinely relieved to think that Rickman was thus harmlessly employed. The incessant
successful production of Saturnalia would have been prejudicial to the interests of The Museion;
a series of triumphant Helens in Leuce would have turned Rickman aside for ever from the columns
of Metropolis; but Jewdwine told himself that he had nothing to fear from the rivalries of
the modern Tragic Muse. Rickman the journalist would live; for Rickman the poet had set out
on the path of perdition.

Nobody could say that it was Jewdwine who had encouraged him to take it.

CHAPTER LXVI

In January, ninety-eight, Metropolis began to pay, and Rickman's hopes were justified. He was
now a solid man, a man of income. For eighteen months he kept strictly within the limits he
had allowed himself. His nature inclined him to a riotous and absurd expenditure, and for eighteen
months he wrestled with and did violence to his nature. Each sum he saved stood for some triumph
of ingenious abnegation, some miracle of self-restraint. And for eighteen months Dicky Pilkington,
beholding the spectacle of his heroism, laid ten to one against his ultimate success. The thing,
Dicky said, was impossible; he could never keep it up. But Rickman once abandoned to a persistent
and passionate economy, there was no more holding him in on that path than on any other. By
the middle of the following year, out of an income of four hundred he had saved that sum.

He said to himself that the worst was over now. He had paid off more than half of his debt,
and the remainder had still another fourteen months to run. Only fourteen months' passionate
economy and the Harden library would be redeemed. As he saw himself within measurable distance
of his end, he was seized by an anxiety, an excitement that he had not been aware of at the
start. The sight of the goal perturbed him; it suggested the failure that up to that moment
he had not allowed himself to contemplate. Like an athlete he gathered himself together for
the final spurt; and ninety-nine was a brilliant year for The Planet made glorious by the poems,
articles and paragraphs showered on it by S.K.R. Maddox shook his head over some of them; but
he took them all and boasted, as he well might, that The Planet published more Rickman--the
real Rickman--in six months than Metropolis would do in as many years. He distinguished between
Rickman's genius and his talent; provided he got his best work, anybody else was welcome to
his second-best. By anybody else he meant Jewdwine.

Yet it was a nobler feeling than professional rivalry that made him abhor the poet's connection
with Metropolis; for Maddox was if anything more jealous for Rickman's reputation than for
his own. From the very beginning he had never ceased to wonder at his unaccountable affection
for Horace Jewdwine; the infatuation, for it amounted to infatuation, would have been comprehensible
enough in any other man, but it was unaccountable in Rickman, who was wholly destitute of reverence
for the sources of his income. Jewdwine of The Museion had been in Maddox's opinion a harmless
philosophic crank; he had done nothing, absolutely nothing for Rickman's genius; but Jewdwine
of Metropolis was dangerous, for he encouraged Rickman's talent; and Rickman's talent would,
he was afraid, be ultimately destructive to the higher power.

So Maddox prayed to heaven for promotion, that he might make Rickman independent of Jewdwine
and his journal. There were many things that he had in his mind to do for him in the day of
advancement. His eyes raked the horizon, sighting promotion from afar. And in the last two
years, promotion had come very near to Maddox. There were quarters, influential quarters, where
he Was spoken of as a singularly original young man; and he had the knack of getting hold of
singularly original young men; young men of originality too singular perhaps to make the paper
pay. Still, though the orbit of The Planet was hardly so vast as Maddox had anticipated, as
to its brilliance there could be no two opinions. In the year ninety-eight, the year that saw
Rickman first struggling in the financier's toils, Maddox had delivered his paper from the
power of Pilkington. Promotion played with Maddox; it hovered round him, touching him tentatively
with the tips of its wings; he lured it by every innocent art within his power, but hitherto
it had always settled on some less wild and wanton head.

At last it came, it kept on coming, from a quarter where, as he had every right to look for
it, he had of course never dreamed of looking. Rankin's publishers, grown rich on the proceeds
of Rankin's pen, were dissatisfied with their reader (the poor man had not discovered Rankin);
on Rankin's advice they offered his post to Maddox (who had), and that at double his salary.
They grew richer, and at a further hint from Rankin they made Maddox a director. In the same
mad year they started a new monthly, and (Rankin again) appointed Maddox as their editor.

His opportunity had come. On the very night of this third appointment Maddox called on Rickman
and proposed on behalf of Rankin and Stables to hand over to him the editorship of The Planet.
For Stables, he said, was too dog lazy, and Rankin too grossly prosperous to have anything
to do with it. He didn't think any of them would ever make a fortune out of it; but its editor's
income would be at any rate secure. He omitted to mention that it would be practically secured
out of his, Maddox's, own pocket.

"You may reckon," said he, "on three hundred and fifty." He named the sum modestly, humbly
almost; not that he thought Rickman would be sorry to have that little addition to his income,
but because he was always diffident in offering anything to Rickman, "when you thought of what
he was"; and he found something startling, not to say upsetting, in the joy that leapt up in
his young eyes. You never could tell how Ricky-ticky would take a thing; but if he had known
he was going to take it that way he would have written him a note. He wondered whether Ricky-ticky
was in a tight corner, head over ears in debt or love. Did the young lunatic want to marry
after that near shave he had two years ago? You wouldn't exactly refuse three hundred and fifty;
but a beggar must be brought pretty low to be crumpled up in that way by the mere mention of
the sum.

Maddox was not aware that no other combination of figures could have excited precisely those
emotions; three hundred and fifty being the exact sum that Rickman needed for the accomplishment
of his purpose. It brought his dream nearer to him by a year. A year? Why, it did more. He
had only to ask and Maddox would advance the money. His dream was now, this moment, within
his grasp.

And all he could say was, "I say, you know, this is awfully good of you."

"Good of you, Rickets, to take the thing off my hands. I can't very well run a monthly and
a weekly with all my other jobs thrown in."

"The question is whether I can manage two weeklies and the other things."

"No, you can't. You're not built that way. But if you take The Planet, you can afford to chuck
Metropolis. Tell you the truth, that's one reason why I want you to take it."

Some of the joy died out of Rickman's face.

"The other reason is, of course, that I can't think of a better man."

"It's awfully good of you to think of me at all. But why do you want me to chuck Metropolis?"

"Never mind why. I don't say The Planet is the best imaginable place for you, nor are you the
best imaginable man for The Planet; but I really can't think of a better."

"No, but why--"

"(Confound him, why can't he leave it alone? I shall lose my temper in another minute," said
Maddox to himself.) "The question is, would you like it? Because, if you wouldn't, don't imagine
you've got to take it to oblige me."

"Of course I'd like it. There isn't anything I'd like so well."

"It's settled then."

It might have been, but Rickman turned on him again with his ungovernable "Why?"

"If you'd like it, Ricky, there's nothing more to be said. I know it isn't exactly a sumptuous
berth for you, but it's a bit better salary."

"I'm not thinking of the salary. Oh, yes, I am, though; God forgive me, I'm thinking of nothing
else."

"Salary apart," said Maddox, with the least touch of resentment, "it's a better thing for you
to edit The Planet than to sub-edit Metropolis."

"Of course it is. Still, I should like to know why you want me to throw Jewdwine over."

"Hang Jewdwine. I said Metropolis."

"I'm glad you admit the distinction."

"I don't admit it."

"Why do you want me to throw the thing over, then? Do you mean that I can't work for you and
Jewdwine at the same time?"

"I never said anything about Jewdwine at all. But--if you will have it--I can't say I consider
the connection desirable for the editor of The Planet."

"I think I'm the best judge of that."

"I said--for the editor of The Planet."

"For the editor of The Planet then, why not?"

"Ours is a poor but honest paper," said Maddox with his devilish twinkle.

"I don't see how I can very well be the editor of The Planet so long as it insists on shying
a dead cat every week at the editor of Metropolis."

"We have never mentioned the editor of Metropolis. Still--if you can induce Rankin to give
up his little jest--the cat is certainly very dead by this time."

"He'll have to give it up if you make me editor."

"You'd better tell him so."

"I shall."

"All right, Rickets; only wait till you are editor. Then you can put as much side on as you like."

"Good heavens, did you ever see me put on side?"

"Well, I've seen you strike an attitude occasionally."

"All my attitudes put together hardly amount to side."

"They do, if they assume that they're going to affect the attitude of our paper."

"I didn't know it had one."

"It has a very decided attitude with regard to the ethics of reviewing; and whatever else you
make it give up, it's not going to give up that. The Planet, Ricky, doesn't put on side. Side
would be fatal to any freedom in the handling of dead cats. I wouldn't go so far as to say
that it makes its moral being its prime care; but there are some abuses which it lives to expose,
though the exposure doesn't help it much to live."

"Oh, I say, Maddy! That's what keeps you going. My poems would have sunk you long ago, if it
hadn't been for your thrilling personalities."

"Personalities or no personalities, what I mean to rub into you is that The Planet is impartial;
it's the only impartial review in this country. It has always reserved to itself an absolutely
untrammelled hand in the shying of dead cats; and because a man happens to be a friend of the
editor, it's no guarantee whatever that he won't have one slung at him the minute he deserves
it. His only security is to perpetrate some crime so atrocious that we can't publish his name
for fear of letting ourselves in for an action for libel. Your attitude to Mr. Jewdwine is
naturally personal. Ours is not. I should have thought you'd have been the first to see that."

"I don't see what you've got against him, to begin with. I wish you'd tell me plainly what it is."

"If you will have it, it's simply this--he isn't honest."

"What the devil do you mean?"

"I mean what you mean when you say a woman isn't honest. As you've so often remarked, there's
such a thing as intellectual chastity. Some people have it, and some have not. You have it,
my dear Rickets, in perfection, not to say excess; but most of us manage to lose it more or
less as we go on. It's a deuced hard thing, I can tell you, for any editor to keep; and Jewdwine,
I'm afraid, has latterly been induced to part with it to a considerable, a very considerable
extent. It's a thousand pities; for Jewdwine had the makings in him of a really fine critic.
He might have been a classic if he'd died soon enough."

"He is a classic--he's the only man whose opinion's really worth having at this moment."

"Whom are we talking about? Jewdwine? Or the editor of Metropolis?"

"I'm talking about Jewdwine. I happen to know him, if you don't."

"And I'm talking about the other fellow whom you don't happen to know a little bit. Nobody
cares a tuppenny damn about his opinion, except the fools who read it and the knaves who buy it."

"And who do you imagine those people are?"

"Most of them are publishers, I believe. But a good few are authors, I regret to say."

"Authors have cheek enough for most things; but I should like to see one suggesting to Jewdwine
that he should sell him his opinion."

"My dear fellow, anybody may suggest it. That's what he's there for, since he turned his opinion
on to the streets. Whether you get a pretty opinion or not depends on the length of your purse."

"Why don't you call it bribery at once?"

"Because bribery's too harsh a term to apply to an editor, mon semblable, mon frère; but in
a woman, or a parliamentary candidate, it might possibly be called corruption."

"Thanks. Well, you've made me a very generous offer, Maddox, so generous that I'm glad you've
explained yourself before I took it. For after that, you know, it would have been rather awkward
for me to have to tell you you're a liar!"

"You consider me a liar, do you?" said Maddox in a mild dispassionate voice.

"Certainly I do, when you say these thing about Jewdwine."

"How about Rankin? He says them."

"Then Rankin's a liar, too!"

"And Stables?"

"And Stables--if he says them."

"My dear Rickman, everybody says them; only they don't say them to you. We can't all be liars."

"There's a difference, I admit. Anybody who says them is a liar; and anybody who says them
to me is a d----d liar! That's the difference."

Whereupon Maddox intimated (as honour indeed compelled him) that Rickman was the sort of young
fool for which there is no salvation. And by the time Rickman had replied with suitable hyperbole;
and Maddox, because of the great love he bore to Rickman, had observed that if Rickman chose
to cut his confused throat he might do so without its being a matter of permanent regret to
Maddox; and Rickman, because of the great love he bore to Maddox, had suggested his immediate
departure for perdition, it was pretty clearly understood that Rickman himself preferred to
perish, everlastingly perish, rather than be connected even remotely with Maddox and his paper.
And on that understanding they separated.

And when the door was closed between them, Rickman realised that his folly was even as Maddox
had described it. In one night, and at a crisis of his finances, he had severed himself from
a fairly permanent source of income; flung up the most desirable chance that had presented
itself hitherto in his career; and quarrelled disgracefully and disagreeably with his best
friend. He supposed the split was bound to come; but if he could only have staved it off for
another year, till he had collected that seven hundred and fifty! There could be no doubt that
that was what he ought to have done. He ought to have been prudent for Lucia's sake. And on
the top of it all came the terrible reflection--Was it really worth it? Did he really believe
in Jewdwine? Or had he sacrificed himself for an idea?

CHAPTER LXVII

Rickman could never be made to speak of the quarrel with Maddox. He merely mentioned to Jewdwine
in the most casual manner that he had left The Planet. As for his grounds for that abrupt departure
Jewdwine was entirely in the dark. It was Lucia that enlightened him.

For all things, even the deep things of journalism, sooner or later come to light. Rickman,
before the quarrel, had given Miss Roots an introduction to the young men of The Planet, and
its editor had taken kindly to Miss Roots. Maddox, it is true, did his best to keep the matter
quiet, until in a moment of expansion he allowed that shrewd lady to lure him into confidences.
Maddox tried to take it and present it philosophically. "It was bound to happen," he said.
"Our Ricky-ticky is a bad hand at serving two masters," but as to which was God and which Mammon
in this connection he modestly reserved his opinion. Jewdwine's name was carefully avoided,
but Miss Roots was left in no doubt as to the subject of dispute.

She and Maddox were one in their inextinguishable enthusiasm for their Rickman, for Rickman
had the gift, the rarest of all gifts, of uniting the hearts that loved him. If Jewdwine had
showed anything like a proper appreciation of the poet, Maddox would have spared him now. So
the two looked at each other, with eyes that plumbed all the depths of the unspoken and unspeakable,
eyes that sent out a twinkling flash of admiration as they agreed that it was "just like Rickman."
That phrase was for ever on the lips of his admirers, a testimony to the fact that Rickman
was invariably true to himself.

He was being true to himself now in being true to Jewdwine, and it was in that form that the
tale went round. "I can't tell you all the ins and outs of it," wrote Miss Roots to Lucia,
"but he is paying for his loyalty to Mr. Jewdwine;" and Lucia, with equal pride in her cousin
and her friend, repeated it to Kitty Palliser, who repeated it to somebody else with the comment,
"I'm not surprised to hear it"; and somebody else repeated it in a good many quarters without
any comment at all. For everybody but Lucia understood that it spoke for itself.

And nobody understood it better than Jewdwine when his cousin said, "You will be nice to him,
Horace, won't you? He is suffering for his loyalty to you." Lucia herself had adopted a theory
which she now set forth (reluctantly, by reason of the horrible light it threw on human nature).
Mr. Maddox (whoever he might be) was of course jealous of Horace. It was a shocking theory,
but it was the only one which made these complications clear to her.

But Jewdwine had no need of theories or explanations. He understood. He knew that a certain
prejudice, not to say suspicion, attached to him. Ideas, not very favourable to his character
as a journalist, were in the air. And as his mind (in this respect constitutionally susceptible)
had seldom been able to resist ideas in the air there were moments when his own judgment wavered.
He was beginning to suspect himself.

He was not sure, and if he had been he would not have acted on that certainty; for he had never
possessed the courage of his opinions. But it had come to this, that Jewdwine, the pure, the
incorruptible, was actually uncertain whether he had or had not taken a bribe. As he lay awake
in bed at four o'clock in the morning his conscience would suggest to him that he had done
this thing; but at noon, in the office of Metropolis, his robust common sense, then like the
sun, in the ascendant, boldly protested that he had done nothing of the sort. He had merely
made certain not very unusual concessions to the interests of his journal. In doing so he had
of course set aside his artistic conscience, an artistic conscience being a private luxury
incompatible with the workings of a large corporate concern. He was bound to disregard it in
loyalty to his employers and his public. They expected certain things of him and not others.
It was different in the unexciting days of the old Museion; it would be different now if he
could afford to run a paper of his own dedicated to the service of the Absolute. But Jewdwine
was no longer the servant of the Absolute. He was the servant and the mouthpiece of a policy
that in his heart he abhorred; irretrievably committed to a programme that was concerned with
no absolute beyond the absolute necessity of increasing the circulation of Metropolis. Such
a journal only existed on the assumption that its working expenses were covered by the advertisements
of certain publishing houses. But if this necessity committed him to a more courteous attitude
than he might otherwise have adopted towards the works issued by those houses, that was not
saying that he was in their pay. He was, of course, in the pay of his own publishers, but so
was every man who drew a salary under the same conditions; and if those gentlemen, finding
their editor an even more competent person than they had at first perceived, were in the habit
of increasing his salary in proportion to his competence, that was only the very correct and
natural expression of their good opinion.

Whatever he had thought of himself at four o'clock in the morning, by four o'clock in the afternoon
Jewdwine took an extremely lenient, not to say favourable view. Unfortunately he had not the
courage of that opinion either. Therefore he was profoundly touched by this final instance
of Rickman's devotion, and all that it argued of reckless and inspired belief. In the six months
that followed he saw more of Rickman than he had seen in as many years. Whenever he had a slack
evening he would ask him to dinner, and let him sit talking on far into the night. He was afraid
of being left alone with that uncomfortable doubt, that torturing suspicion. Rickman brought
with him an atmosphere charged with stimulating conviction, and in his presence Jewdwine breathed
freely and unafraid. He felt himself no longer the ambiguous Jewdwine that he was, but the
noble incorruptible Jewdwine that he had been. Up there in the privacy of his study Jewdwine
let himself go; to that listener he was free to speak as a critic noble and incorruptible.
But there were moments, painful for both men, when he would pause, gripped by his doubt, in
the full swing of some high deliverance; when he looked at Rickman with a pathetic anxious
gaze, as if uncertain whether he were not presuming too far on a character that he held only
at the mercy of his friend's belief.

Though as yet he was not fully aware of the extent to which he relied on that belief, there
could hardly have been a stronger tie than that which now bound him to his subordinate. He
would have shrunk from loosing it lest he should cut himself off from some pure source of immortality,
lest he should break the last link between his soul and the sustaining and divine reality.
It was as if through Rickman he remained attached to the beauty which he still loved and to
the truth which he still darkly discerned.

In any case he could not have suffered him to go unrewarded. He owed that to himself, to the
queer personal decency which he still managed to preserve after all his flounderings in the
slough of journalism. It was intolerable to his pride that Rickman should be in any pecuniary
embarrassment through his uncompromising devotion. He hardly knew whether he was the more pleased
because Rickman had stuck to him or because he had thrown his other friends over. He had never
quite forgiven him that divided fealty. He cared nothing for an allegiance that he had had
to share with Maddox and his gang. But now that Rickman was once more exclusively, indisputably
his, he was in honour bound to cherish and protect him. (Jewdwine was frequently visited by
these wakenings of the feudal instinct that slept secretly in his blood.) If he could not make
up to Rickman for the loss of the proposed editorship, he saw to it that he was kept well supplied
with lucrative work on his own paper. As an even stronger proof of his esteem he allowed him
for the first time a certain authority, and an unfettered hand.

For six months Rickman luxuriated in power and increase of leisure and of pay. If the pay was
insufficient to cover all his losses the leisure was invaluable; it enabled him to get on with
his tragedy.

Now if Rickman had been prudent he would have finished his tragedy then and there and got it
published in all haste. For there is no doubt that if any work of his had been given to the
world any time within those six months, Jewdwine would have declared the faith that was in
him. Whatever the merits of the work he would have celebrated its appearance by a sounding
Feast of Trumpets in Metropolis. He would have done anything to strengthen the tie that attached
him to the sources of his spiritual content. But Rickman was not prudent. He let the golden
hours slip by while he sat polishing up his blank verse as if he had all eternity before him.

Meanwhile he did all he could for Jewdwine. Jewdwine indeed could not have done a better thing
for himself than in giving Rickman that free hand. In six months there was a marked improvement
in the tone of Metropolis and the reputation of its editor, and, but for the unexpected which
is always happening, Jewdwine might in the long run have emerged without a stain.

Nothing in fact could have been more utterly unforeseen, and yet, in reviewing all the steps
which led to the ultimate catastrophe, Rickman said to himself that nothing would have been
more consistent and inevitable. It came about first of all through a freak, a wanton freak
of Fate in the form of a beardless poet, a discovery, not of Jewdwine's nor of Rickman's but
of Miss Roots'. That Miss Roots could make a discovery clearly indicated the finger of fate.
Miss Roots promptly asked Rickman to dinner and presented to him the discovery, beardless,
breathless also and hectic, wearing an unclean shirt and a suit of frayed shoddy.

He came away from that dinner, that embarrassing, palpitating encounter, with a slender sheaf
of verses in his pocket. It did not take him long to read them, nor to see (the unforeseen
again!) that the verses would live longer than their maker. They were beardless, breathless,
and hectic like the boy, but nobody could have been keener than Rickman to recognize the immortal
adolescence, the swift panting of the pursuing god, the burning of the inextinguishable flame.
He wrote a letter to him, several letters, out of the fulness of his heart. Then Maddox, to
whom he had not spoken since the day of their falling out, came up to him at the Junior Journalists,
shook his hand as if nothing had happened, and thanked him for his appreciation of young Paterson.
He said that it had put new life into the boy. They made it up over young Paterson. And that
was another step towards the inevitable conclusion.

The next step was that somebody who was paying for the boy's doctor's bills paid also for the
publication of his poems. They arrived (this of course was only to be expected) at the office
of Metropolis (the slender sheaf grown slenderer by some omissions which Rickman had advised).
But it was Fate that contrived that they should arrive in the same week with a volume (by no
means slender), a volume of Poems issued by the publishers of Metropolis and written by a friend
(and an influential friend) of the editor. Therein were the last sweet pipings of the pastoral
Fulcher. No other hand but Jewdwine's, as Jewdwine sorrowfully owned, could have done anything
for this work, and he meant to have devoted a flattering article to it in the next number.
But in the arrangements of the unforeseen it was further provided that Jewdwine should be disabled,
at what he playfully called the "critical moment," by an attack of influenza. The two volumes,
the slender and the stout, were forwarded to Rickman in the same parcel, and Jewdwine in a
note discreetly worded threw himself and the poems of his influential friend on Rickman's mercy.
Would Rickman deal with the big book? He would see for himself that it was a big book. He gave
him as usual a perfectly free hand as to space, but he thought it might be well to mention
that the book was to have had a two-page article all to itself. He drew Rickman's attention
to the fact that it was published by So and So, and hoped that he might for once at least rely
on his discretion. Perhaps as he was reviewing the work of a "brother bard" it would be better
to keep the article anonymous.

There was nothing coarse about Jewdwine's methods. Through all his career he remained refined
and fastidious, and his natural instincts forbade him to give a stronger hint. Unfortunately,
in this instance, refinement had led him into a certain ambiguity of phrase!

On this ambiguity Rickman leapt, with a grin of diabolical delight. He may have had some dim
idea that it would be his shelter in the day of rebuke; but all he could clearly think of as
he held the boy's frail palpitating volume in his hand, was that he had but that moment in
which to praise him. This was his unique and perfect opportunity, the only sort of opportunity
that he was not likely to let slip.

Quem Deus vult perdere prius dementat; and it really looked as if madness had come upon Rickman
in the loneliness and intoxication of his power. With those two volumes of poetry before him,
a small one by a rank outsider, unknown, unkempt and unprotected; a boy from whom no more was
to be expected, seeing that he was about to depart out of the world where editors are powerful;
and one, a large, considerable volume by a person eminent already in that world and with many
years of poetry and influence before him, he gave (reckless of all proportion) the two-page
article to the slender volume and the paragraph to the stout. That was what he did--he, the
sub-editor.

Of the paragraph the less said the better. As for the article it was such a song of jubilation
as one poet sings over the genius of another; and nothing that he had ever done for Metropolis
delighted him so much as the making of it. He sent the proofs to Jewdwine as usual with a note.
"Here they are. I think I've been discreet. I've done what I could for Mr. Fulcher, but, as
you'll see, I've dealt nobly with young Paterson, as he deserves." As he heard nothing from
Jewdwine, he could only suppose that the chief was satisfied, and he could not help reflecting
with some complacency that no doubt old Maddox would be satisfied too.

The next thing that happened was that he was cut by Maddox at the Junior Journalists. (It was
on a Saturday, and Metropolis, the number, had appeared the night before). Cut unmistakably,
with a thrust from the blue eyes and an expressive turning of the enormous shoulders. A number
once issued from his hands Rickman never looked at it again if he could help it, and he never
troubled to look at it now. He simply regarded Maddox's behaviour as unaccountable. In the
hope of lighting on some explanation he called at Tavistock Place one Sunday afternoon, at
a time when he was pretty sure of finding Miss Roots alone. He wanted to know, he said, what
was the matter with Maddy. Apparently Miss Roots had something the matter with her too, for
her only answer was to hand him stiffly a copy of Metropolis with the pages scored in blue
pencil at his own article. He took it with a radiant and confiding smile, a smile that assumed
such a thoroughly delightful understanding between him and Miss Roots that the little lady,
who had evidently counted on a very different effect, was put to some intellectual confusion.
She noticed that as he read the smile vanished and gave place, first to an expression of absolute
bewilderment, and then to a furious flush, whether of shame or indignation she could not tell,
but it looked (again to her confusion) uncommonly like both.

"I see," he said quietly, and laid the paper aside.

What he had seen was that, save for a few ingenious transpositions, the two reviews stood very
much as he had written them. The only striking alteration was that Mr. Fulcher had got the
article and young Paterson the paragraph.

"Oh, you see, do you?" said Miss Roots bitterly. "That's more than I do."

"I see there's been some astonishing mistake." For one moment he exonerated Jewdwine and embraced
the wild hypothesis of a printer's error. He took back the accursed journal; as he held it
his hand trembled uncontrollably. He glanced over the notices again. No. It was not after this
fashion that the printers of the Metropolis were wont to err. He recognized the familiar hand
of the censor, though it had never before accomplished such an incredible piece of editing as this.

And yet it was in strict accordance with the old tradition. The staff of Metropolis knew that
before a line of theirs was printed it had to pass under their editor's reforming hand; that
was the understood condition on which they wrote for him at all; it was the method by which
Jewdwine maintained the unity of his empire. But in the case of Rickman he either forbore to
exercise his privilege, or exercised it in such a manner as preserved the individuality of
the poet's style. Like some imperial conqueror Jewdwine had absorbed the literary spirit of
the man he conquered, and Metropolis bore the stamp of Rickman for all time. So now the style
of the articles remained intact; they might have passed equally for the work of Rickman or
of Jewdwine.

"I suppose," he said helplessly, "it is a little short."

"Short? You weren't bound to make it long; but there was no occasion to be so contemptuous."

"Contemptuous? Good God!"

"That's what it amounts to when you're so insufferably polite."

Oh yes he recognized it, the diabolical urbanity that had seemed the very choicest method of
dealing with Mr. Fulcher.

"Politeness was not exactly all you led us to expect from you."

He passed his hand wearily over his forehead and his eyes. Miss Roots had a moment of compunction.
She thought of all that he had done for her. He had delivered her from her labours in the Museum;
he had introduced her to the young men of The Planet, and had made Maddox send her many books
to review; he had lifted her from the obscurity that threatened to engulf her. And he had done
more for her than this. He had given her back her youth and intellect; he had made her life
a joy instead of a terror to her. But Miss Roots was just. The agony on his face would have
melted her heart, but for another agony that she saw.

"If the poor boy knew that you had written that paragraph--"

"He needn't know unless some kind friend goes and tells him. It isn't signed."

"No. I don't wonder that you were ashamed to put your name to it."

He rose to go. She looked up at him with a queer little look, half penetrating and half pleading,
and held out her hand.

"Well," she said, "what am I to say if he asks me if you wrote it? Can you deny it?"

"No," he said curtly, "I can't deny it."

"And you can't explain it?"

"No, and I can't explain it. Surely," he said with a horrible attempt at laughter, "it speaks
for itself."

"It does indeed, Keith."

And Maddox, to whom Miss Roots related the substance of that interview, echoed her sentiment.

"It does indeed."

Of all that brilliant band of young men lured by journalism to ruin they looked on their Rickman
as the most splendid, the most tragic.

CHAPTER LXVIII

Up till now it had never occurred to Rickman that his connection with Metropolis could directly
damage him, still less that Jewdwine could personally inflict a blow. But the injury now done
to him was monstrous and intolerable; Jewdwine had hurt him in a peculiarly delicate and shrinking
place. Because his nature was not originally magnificent in virtue of another sort, it was
before all things necessary that he should perserve his intellectual chastity. That quality
went deeper than the intellect; it was one with a sense of honour so fine that a touch, impalpable
to ordinary men, was felt by it as a laceration and a stain. He walked up to Hampstead that
Sunday evening, taking the hill at a round swinging pace. Not all the ardour and enthusiasm
of his youth had ever carried him there with such an impetus as did his burning indignation
against Jewdwine. And as he went the spirit of youth, the spirit of young Paterson, went beside
him and breathed upon the flame.

And yet he was the same man who only an hour ago had been defending Jewdwine's honour at the
expense of his own; without a thought that in so defending it he was doing anything in the
least quixotic or remarkable. He had done nothing. He had simply refrained at a critical moment
from giving him away. Maddox was Jewdwine's enemy; and to have given Jewdwine away at that
moment would have meant delivering him over to Maddox to destroy.

No; when he thought of it he could hardly say he had defended his friend's honour at the expense
of his own; for Jewdwine's honour was Lucia's, and Lucia's was not Jewdwine's but his, indistinguishably,
inseparably his.

But though he was not going to give Jewdwine up to Maddox, he was going to give him up. It
might come to the same thing. He could imagine that, to anybody who chose to put two and two
together, an open rupture would give him away as completely as if he had accused him in so
many words. That, of course he could not help. There was a point beyond which his honour refused
to identify itself with Jewdwine's. He had never felt a moment's hesitation upon that point.
For in his heart he condemned his friend far more severely than Maddox could have condemned
anybody. He had a greater capacity for disgust than Maddox. He would draw up, writhing at trifles
over which Maddox would merely shrug his shoulders and pass on. In this instance Maddox, whose
Celtic soul grew wanton at the prospect of a fight, would have fallen upon Jewdwine with an
infernal joy, but he would have been the first to deprecate Rickman's decision as absurd. As
for Rankin of Stables, instead of flying into a passion they would, in similar circumstances,
have sat still and smiled.

If it had not been for young Paterson, Rickman would have smiled too, even if he had been unable
to sit still; for his vision of Fulcher pocketing the carefully selected praise intended for
Paterson was purely and supremely comic; so delightful in fact, that he could have embraced
Jewdwine for providing it. But Paterson, who had looked to him as to the giver of life or death,
Paterson on his death-bed taking Fulcher's paragraph to himself and wondering whether it were
indeed Rickman who had done this thing, the thought of Paterson was too painful to be borne.
Honour or no honour, it would be impossible for him to work for Jewdwine after that.

He had got to make that clear to Jewdwine; and anything more unpleasant than the coming interview
he could not well conceive.

Unpleasantness you would have said, was far from Jewdwine's mind that Sunday evening. He himself
suggested nothing of the sort. He was in his study, sitting in an armchair with a shawl over
his knees, smoking a cigarette and looking more pathetically refined than ever after his influenza,
when Rickman burst in upon his peace. He was so frankly glad to see him that his greeting alone
was enough to disarm prejudice. It seemed likely that he would carry off the honours of the
discussion by remaining severely polite while Rickman grew more and more perturbed and heated.
Rickman, however, gained at the outset by making straight for his point. As Jewdwine gave him
no opening he had to make one and make it as early as possible, before the great man's amenities
had time to lure him from the track.

"I wish," said he abruptly, "you'd tell me what was wrong with those reviews of mine, that
you found it necessary to alter them?"

"The reviews? Oh, the reviews were all right--excellent material--they only wanted a little
editing."

"Do you mind telling me what you mean by editing?"

"That is the last point an editor is competent to explain."

"All the same I'd like to hear what you've got to say. I think you'll admit that you owe me
some explanation."

"My dear fellow--sit down, won't you?--I admit nothing of the sort."

Jewdwine no longer stood on his dignity, he lay back on it, lounged on it, stretched all his
graceful length upon it, infinitely at ease. Time had mellowed his manners and made them incomparably
gentle and humane.

"You seem to think I took a liberty with your articles. I didn't. I merely exercised an ancient
editorial right. I couldn't possibly have let them be printed as they stood. Conceive my feelings
if I'd had to sit next to Mr. Fulcher at dinner that evening. It might easily have happened.
It's all very well for you, Rickman; you're young and irresponsible, and you haven't got to
sit next to Mr. Fulcher at dinner; but you'll own that it would have been rather an awkward
situation for me?"

"I can forgive you Fulcher, but I can't forgive you Paterson."

"And I could have forgiven you Paterson, but I couldn't forgive you Fulcher. Do you see?"

He allowed a few moments for reflection, and continued.

"Of course, I understand your feelings. In fact I sympathize profoundly. As a rule I never
dream of touching anything with your signature; I've far too great a reverence for style."

"Style be d----d. For all I care you may cut up my style till you can't tell it from Fulcher's.
I object to your transposing my meaning to suit your own. Honestly, Jewdwine, I'd rather write
like Fulcher than write as you've made me appear to have written."

"My dear Rickman, that's where you make the mistake. You don't appear at all." He smiled with
urbane tolerance of the error. "The editor, as you know, is solely responsible for unsigned
reviews."

So far Jewdwine had come off well. He had always a tremendous advantage in his hereditary manners;
however right you had been to start with, his imperturbable refinement put you grossly in the
wrong. And at this point Rickman gave himself away.

"What's the good of that?" said he, "if young Paterson believes I wrote them?"

"Young Paterson isn't entitled to any belief in the matter."

"But--he knew."

There was a shade of genuine annoyance on Jewdwine's face.

"Oh of course, if you've told him that you were the author. That's rather awkward for you,
but it's hardly my fault. I'm sorry, Rickman, but you really are a little indiscreet."

"I wish I could explain your behaviour in the same way."

"Come, since you're so keen on explanations, how do you propose to explain your own? I gave
you certain instructions, and what right had you to go beyond them, not to say against them?"

"What earthly right had you to make me say the exact opposite of what I did say? But I didn't
go against your instructions. Here they are."

He produced them. "You'll see that you gave me a perfectly free hand as to space."

Jewdwine looked keenly at him. "You knew perfectly well what I meant. And you took advantage
of--of a trifling ambiguity in my phrasing, to do--as you would say--the exact opposite. That
was hardly what I expected of you."

As he spoke Jewdwine drew his shawl up about his waist, thus delicately drawing attention to
his enfeebled state. The gesture seemed to convict Rickman of taking advantage not only of
his phrase but of his influenza, behaviour superlatively base.

"I can give you a perfectly clear statement of the case. You carefully suppressed my friend
and you boomed your own for all you were worth. Naturally, I reversed your judgment. Of course,
if you had told me you wanted to do a little log-rolling on your own account, I should have
been only too delighted--but I always understood that you disapproved of the practice."

"So I do. Paterson isn't a friend of mine."

"He's your friend's friend then. I think Mr. Maddox might have been left to look after his
own man."

Rickman rose hastily, as if he were no longer able to sit still and bear it.

"Jewdwine," he said, and his voice had the vibration which the master had once found so irresistible.
"Have you read young Paterson's poems?"

"Yes. I've read them."

"And what is your honest--your private opinion of them?"

"I'm not a fool, Rickman. My private opinion of them is the same as yours."

"What an admission!"

"But," said Jewdwine suavely, "that's not the sort of opinion my public--the public that pays
for Metropolis--pays to have."

"You mean it's the sort of opinion I'm paid to give."

"Well, broadly speaking--of course there are exceptions, and Paterson in other circumstances
might have been one of them--that's very much what I do mean."

"Then--I'm awfully sorry, Jewdwine--but if that's so I can't go on working for Metropolis.
I must give it up. In fact, that's really what I came to say."

Jewdwine too had risen with an air of relief, being anxious to end an interview which was becoming
more uncomfortable than he cared for. He had stood, gazing under drooping eyelids at his disciple's
feet. Nobody would have been more surprised than Jewdwine if you had suggested to him that
he could have any feeling about looking anybody in the face. But at that last incredible, impossible
speech of his he raised his eyes and fixed them on Rickman's for a moment.

In that moment many things were revealed to him.

He turned and stood with his back to Rickman, staring through the open window. All that he
saw there, the quiet walled garden, the rows of elms on the terrace beside it, the dim green
of the Heath, and the steep unscaleable grey blue barrier of the sky, had taken on an unfamiliar
aspect, as it were a tragic simplicity and vastness. For these things, once so restfully indifferent,
had in a moment become the background of his spiritual agony, a scene where his soul appeared
to him, standing out suddenly shelterless, naked and alone. No--if it had only been alone;
but that was the peculiar horror of it. He could have borne it but for the presence of the
other man who had called forth the appalling vision, and remained a spectator of it.

There was at least this much comfort for him in his pangs--he knew that a man of coarser fibre
would neither have felt nor understood them. But it was impossible for Jewdwine to do an ignoble
thing and not to suffer; it was the innermost delicacy of his soul that made it writhe under
the destiny he had thrust upon it.

And in the same instant he recognized and acknowledged the greatness of the man with whom he
had to do; acknowledged, not grudgingly, not in spite of himself, but because of himself, because
of that finer soul within his soul which spoke the truth in secret, being born to recognize
great things and admire them. He wondered now how he could ever have mistaken Rickman. He perceived
the origin and significance of his attitude of disparagement, of doubt. It dated from a certain
hot July afternoon eight years ago when he lay under a beech-tree in the garden of Court House
and Lucia had insisted on talking about the poet, displaying an enthusiasm too ardent to be
borne. He had meant well by Rickman, but Lucia's ardour had somehow put him off. Maddox's had
had the same effect, though for a totally different reason, and so it had gone on. He had said
to himself that if other people were going to take Rickman that way he could no longer feel
the same peculiar interest.

He turned back again.

"Do you really mean it?" said he.

"I'm afraid I do."

"You mean that you intend to give up reviewing for Metropolis?"

"I mean that after this I can't have anything more to do with it."

He means, thought Jewdwine, that he won't have anything more to do with me.

And Rickman saw that he was understood. He wondered how Jewdwine would take it.

He took it nobly. "Well," he said, "I'm sorry. But if you must go, you must. To tell the truth,
my dear fellow, at this rate, you know, I couldn't afford to keep you. I wish I could. You
are not the only thing I can't afford." He said it with a certain emotion not very successfully
concealed beneath his smile. Rickman was about to go; but he detained him.

"Wait one minute. Do you mind telling me whether you've any regular sources of income besides
Metropolis?"

"Well, not at the moment."

"And supposing--none arise?"

"I must risk it."

"You seem to have a positive mania for taking risks." Yes, that was Rickman all over, he found
a brilliant joy in the excitement; he was in love with danger.

"Oh well, sometimes, you know, you've got to take them."

Happy Rickman! The things that were so difficult and complicated to Jewdwine were so simple,
so incontestable to him. "Some people, Rickman, would say you were a fool." He sighed, and
the sigh was a tribute his envy paid to Rickman's foolishness. "I won't offer an opinion; the
event will prove."

"It won't prove anything. Events never do. They merely happen."

"Well, if they happen wrong, and I can help you, you've only got to come to me."

Never in all his life had Jewdwine so nearly achieved the grace of humility as in this offer
of his help. He would have given anything if Rickman could have accepted it, but refusal was
a foregone conclusion. And yet he offered it.

"Thanks--thanks awfully." It was Rickman who appeared nervous and ashamed. His mouth twitched;
he held out his hand abruptly; he was desperately anxious to say good-night and get it over.
It seemed to him that he had been six years taking leave of Jewdwine; each year had seen the
departure of some quality he had known him by. He wanted to have done with it now for ever.

But Jewdwine would not see his hand. He turned away; paced the floor; swung back on a hesitating
heel and approached him, smiling.

"You're not going to disappear altogether, are you? You'll turn up again, and let me know how
you're getting on?"

To Rickman there was something tragic and retrospective in Jewdwine's smile. It had no joy
in it, but an appeal, rather, to the memory of what he had been. He found it irresistible.

"Thanks. I shall get on all right; but I'll turn up again sometime."

Jewdwine's smile parted with its pathos, its appeal. It conveyed a promise, an assurance that
whatever else had perished in him his friendship was not dead.

For there were ways, apart from the ways of journalism, in which Jewdwine could be noble still.
And still, as he watched Rickman's departing back, the back that he seemed doomed to know so
well, he said to himself--

"He's magnificent, but I can't afford him."

CHAPTER LXIX

In all this his history had only repeated itself. When six years ago he had turned his back
on Rickman's he had made it inevitable that he should turn his back on Jewdwine now. On each
occasion his behaviour had provoked the same melancholy admission, from Jewdwine--"He is magnificent,
but I can't afford him"; from Isaac Rickman--"I can't afford to pay your price, my boy." The
incredible thing was that Jewdwine should have been brought to say it. Jewdwine was changed;
but Rickman was the same Rickman who had swung the shop door behind him, unmoved by the separation
from his salary.

But after all he could only keep half of that rash vow he had made to himself on the way to
Hampstead. He must give up the Editor of Metropolis; but he could not give up Horace Jewdwine.
It was not the first time he had been compelled to admit the distinction which Maddox for decency's
sake had insisted on. When it came to the point, as now, he found himself insisting on it with
even greater emphasis than Maddox. He knew that in his soul Jewdwine still loved and worshipped
what was admirable, that in his soul he would have given anything to recall his injustice to
young Paterson. But young Paterson was too great to have need either of Jewdwine or of him.
Young Paterson had his genius to console him. His profounder pity was for the man who had inflicted
such awful injuries on himself; the great man who had made himself mean; the spiritual person
who had yielded to a material tyranny; the incorruptible person who had sold his soul, who
only realized the value of his soul now that he had sold it.

And yet he knew that there could be nothing more sundering than such meanness, such corruptibility
as Jewdwine's. Their friendship could never be the same. There was a certain relief in that.
There could never be any hypocrisy, any illusion in their relations now. And nobody knew that
better than Jewdwine. Well, the very fact that Jewdwine had still desired and chosen that sad-hearted,
clear-eyed communion argued a certain greatness in him.

Therefore he resolved to spare him. It would cost him the friendship of better men than he;
but that could not be helped. They must continue to think that he had sold or at any rate lent
himself at interest to Jewdwine. Honour debarred him from all explanation and defence, an honour
so private and personal that it must remain unsuspected by the world. In the beginning he had
made himself almost unpleasantly conspicuous by the purity of his literary morals; his innocence
had been a hair-lifting spectacle even to honest journalists. And now the fame he would have
among them was the fame of a literary prostitute, without a prostitute's wages.

On the contrary he would have to pay heavily for the spiritual luxury of that break with the
editor of Metropolis. When he reached his comfortable room on the third floor in Torrington
Square, he sat down by his writing-table, not to write but to think. It was war-time, fatal
to letters. Such terrors arose before him as must arise before a young man severed by his own
rash act from the sources of his income. What a moment he had chosen for the deed, too! When
money was of all things the thing he most passionately desired; when to his fancy the sum of
a hundred and seventy-five pounds was the form that most nearly, most divinely presented the
adored perfection; when, too, that enchanting figure was almost in his grasp. A few brief spasms
of economy, and ten months of Metropolis would have seen him through.

And yet there was no bitterness in the dismay with which he contemplated his present forlorn
and impecunious state. It was inevitable that he should sever himself from the sources of his
income when they were found to be impure. Much more inevitable than that he should have cut
off that untainted supply which six months ago would have flowed to him through Maddox. Common
prudence had not restrained him from quarrelling with Maddox over a point of honour that was
shadowy compared with this. It was hardly likely that it should have restrained him now. There
were few things that he would not do for Lucia Harden, but not even for her sake could he have
done otherwise than he had done. It was the least that honour could require of him, the very least.

His attitude to honour had in a manner changed. Eight years ago it had seemed to him the fantastic
child of a preference for common honesty, coupled with a preposterous passion for Lucia Harden.
He had indulged it as a man indulges the creature of fantasy and caprice, and had felt that
he was thrusting a personal infatuation into a moral region where such extravagances are unknown.
It belonged rather to the realm of imagination, being essentially a poet's honour, a winged
and lyric creature, a creature altogether too radiant and delicate to do battle with the gross
material world, a thing as mysterious and indomitable as his genius; a very embarrassing companion
for a young journalist in his first start in life. And now he had grown so used to it that
it seemed to him no longer mysterious and fantastic; obedience to it was as simple as the following
of a natural impulse, a thing in no way conspicuous and superb. It was the men who knew nothing
of such leadership who seemed to him separated from the order of the world. But to the friends
who watched him Rickman's honour had been always an amazing spectacle. Like another genius
it had taken possession of him and led him through what Jewdwine had called the slough of journalism,
so that he went with fine fastidious feet, choosing the clean places in that difficult way.
Like another genius it had lured him, laughing and reckless, along paths perilous and impossible
to other men. How glad he had been to follow that bright-eyed impetuous leader.

And this was where it had led him to, the radiant and delicate comrade of his youth. As he
sat propping his chin up with his hands the face that confronted destiny had grown haggard
in an hour.

He pulled himself together, and deliberately reviewed the situation. He had at that moment
three and eightpence in his pocket, and lying about somewhere in the table-drawer there was
part of last week's salary and a cheque for nine pounds, the price of a recent article. He
could count on five pounds at Michaelmas, the quarterly rent of the furniture in the little
house at Ealing. Added to these certain sums there was that unknown incalculable amount that
he might yet receive for unsolicited contributions. He had made seventy-five pounds in this
way last year. The casual earnings of ninety-nine were no security for nineteen hundred; still,
invincible hopefulness fixed the probabilities at that figure.

But it was now January, and Dicky Pilkington's bill would be due in November. By successive
triumphs of ingenious economy he had reduced that once appalling seven hundred and fifty to
a hundred and seventy-five. He couldn't actually count on more than twenty-six pounds three
and eightpence with which to meet the liability. And he had also to live for ten months before
he met it. Even invincible Hope was nervous facing those formidable figures. It did indeed
suggest the presence of a shadowy army in the rear, whole columns of figures marching invincibly
to his aid. They were the sums that might, that ought to be obtained by a dramatic poet in
the hour of his success. But Rickman had not been born over a bookseller's shop for nothing;
and an austere hereditary voice reminded him that he couldn't really count on a penny from
his tragedy. He couldn't even afford to write it. The thing was, economically speaking, a crime.
It would of course be finished, as it had been begun, in defiance of economy, as of all other
human pieties and laws, but it would be unreasonable to expect that any financial blessing
could rest on it.

He had only got ten months to raise the money in. It would probably take him that time to find
regular work, if he found it. There was not an editor in London to whom the initials S.K.R.
conveyed the unique significance they did to Jewdwine, to Maddox and to Rankin. He now thought
with regret of the introductions he had refused in the insolence of his youth. To Hanson for
instance. Hanson was a good sort, and he might have come in very handy now. A few other names
passed before him, men whom it would be useless for him to approach. There was old Mackinnon,
though, who was a good sort, too. He had long ago forgotten that ancient jest which compared
his head with the dome of the Museum. He had been the most frequent entertainer of adventitious
prose. Mackinnon might be good for something. He had half a mind to look him up. The thought
of Mackinnon made him feel almost cheerful again.

Before he went to bed he put ten pounds into a tobacco-jar on an inaccessible shelf, keeping
one pound three and eightpence for the expenses of the coming week. The next morning he looked
Mackinnon up.

Now Mackinnon's head was so far unlike the dome of the Museum that it was by no means impervious
to light; and where Mackinnon's interests were concerned it was positively limpid in its transparency.
So that Mackinnon was not slow to perceive the advantages of an alliance with impecunious brilliance.
The brilliance he was already familiar with, the impecuniosity he inferred from the more than
usual offhandedness of Rickman's manner. The war had hit Mackinnon also; the affairs of the
Literary Observer were not so flourishing as Mackinnon could have wished, and he was meditating
some reductions in his staff. He reflected that young men in Rickman's mood and Rickman's circumstances
were sometimes willing to do the work of two journalists for a lower salary than he had been
paying to one. And when he further learnt that Rickman had left Metropolis, he felt that besides
these solid advantages a subtler satisfaction would be his. Jewdwine, corruptible or incorruptible,
had not endeared himself to other editors, and even the sober Mackinnon was unable to resist
the temptation of annexing the great man's great man. But the dome-like head, impenetrable
in this, betrayed none of the thoughts that were going on inside it, and in the bargaining
that followed it was concealed from Rickman that his connection with Metropolis had in any
way increased his market value. He made the best terms he could; and the end of the interview
found him retained on Mackinnon's staff as leader, writer and dramatic critic at a salary of
two pounds ten a week. Mackinnon had offered two pounds, Rickman had held out for three, and
they split the difference. As the poet left the room Mackinnon turned to his desk with a smile
of satisfaction that seemed to illuminate the dome. He had effected a considerable saving by
that little transaction.

And for the poet it did not prove so bad a bargain after all. He had now a more ample leisure;
and for the first time in his journalistic career he knew what it was to be left mercifully,
beneficently alone. He had cut himself off from all his friends; and though at times his heart
suffered, his genius profited by the isolation. It was not until he had escaped from Jewdwine
that he realized what that special deliverance meant for him. He could not well have encountered
a more subtle and dangerous influence than that of the author of the Prolegomena to Æsthetics.
Jewdwine had been hostile to his genius from the beginning, though he had cared for it, too,
in his imperious way. He would have tamed the young, ungovernably ardent thing and wedded it
to his own beautiful and passionless idea; an achievement which would have reflected some glory
on Jewdwine as the matchmaker. But he had left off caring when he found that he had less to
gain from Rickman's genius than from his talent, and had turned his attention to the protection
and encouragement of the more profitable power. As that talent ran riot in the columns of Metropolis
Rickman himself was unaware how relentlessly it drew on the vitality that sustained his genius.
It was Jewdwine's excuse that the vitality seemed inexhaustible.

Jewdwine, as he had once said, dreaded the divine fire. He would ultimately have subdued the
flame by a persistent demand for brilliance of another kind. Even Maddox (who adored his Rickman)
had not seen that his Rickman, his young divinity, must change and grow. He admired his immortal
adolescence; he would have him young and lyrical for ever. He had discovered everything in
him but the dramatic poet he was yet to be. Thus, through the very fervour of his superstition,
Maddox had proved hostile, too. But in Mackinnon Rickman found no malign disturbing influence,
no influence of any kind at all. No thought of capturing his genius or exploiting his talent
had ever entered into the dome-like head. Mackinnon, his mortal nature appeased by his victory
over Jewdwine and further gratified by the consciousness of having secured a good man cheap,
made no exorbitant claims on his contributor. Let Rickman write what he would, Mackinnon knew
he had got his money's worth.

Rickman squared himself nobly for the next round with fortune. And Dicky, in his attitude of
enthusiastic but not uninterested spectator, cheered him on, secretly exultant. Dicky was now
serenely sure of his odds. It was war-time; and Rickman could not hold out long after such
an injury to his income.

But Rickman, unconquered, made matters even by reducing his expenditure. It was winter, and
the severity of the weather would have ruined him in coal alone had he not abandoned the superstition
of a fire. With an oil-stove there was always some slight danger of asphyxia, but Rickman loved
the piquancy of danger. By many such ingenious substitutions he effected so prodigious a saving
that three-fifths or more of his salary went into the tobacco-jar and thence into Dicky Pilkington's
pocket. He rejoiced to see it go, so completely had he subdued the lust of spending, so ardently
embraced the life of poverty; if it were poverty to live on a pound a week. Was it not rather
wanton, iniquitous extravagance to have allowed himself three times that amount? But for that
his position at this moment would have been such that three months on the Literary Observer
would have cleared him. As he stood, the remainder of his debt loomed monstrous under the shadow
of next November.

And it was this moment (when he should have been turning his talent into ready-money by unremitting
journalism), that he chose for finishing his tragedy. If he could be said to have chosen it;
for it was rather the Tragic Muse that had claimed him for her own. She knew her hour, the
first young hour of his deliverance, when he had ceased from hungering and thirsting after
life, and from the violence and stress of living, and was no more tormented by scruple and
by passion; when the flaming orgy of his individuality no longer confused the pageant of the
world. He had been judging by himself when he propounded the startling theory that lyric poets
must grow into dramatic poets if they grow at all. It was now, when his youth no longer sang
aloud in him, that he heard the living voices of the men and women whom he made. Their flesh
and blood no longer struggled violently for birth, no longer tortured the delicate tissue of
the dream. His dreams themselves were brought forth incarnate, he being no longer at variance
with himself as in the days of neo-classic drama.

And so now, when he contemplated his poverty, he saw in it the dream-crowned head and austere
countenance of an archangel destiny. In the absence of all visible and material comfort the
invisible powers assumed their magnificent dominion. He gave his evenings to Mackinnon and
his mornings, his fresh divine mornings, to the Tragic Muse, thus setting a blessed purifying
interval of sleep between his talent and his genius. But through it all, while he slept and
while he worked, and while he scribbled with a tenth part of his brain, mechanically filling
in his columns of the Literary Observer, he felt that his genius, conscious of its hour, possessed
him utterly. Not even for Lucia's sake could he resist the god who was so tyrannous and strong.
In his heart he called on her to forgive him for writing unsaleable tragedies when he ought
to have been making money for her. His heart kept on accusing him. "You would write tragedies
if she were starving," it said. And the god, indignant at the interruption, answered it, "You
wouldn't, you fool, you know you wouldn't. And she isn't starving. It's you who'll starve,
if anybody does; so fire away." And he fired away; for hope, still invincible, told him that
he could afford to do it, that he had in a drawer fifty pounds' worth of unpublished articles,
works of the baser power, and that, war or no war, he could surely sell them. He could sell
his furniture also; and if the worst came to the worst, he could sell his books (his own books,
not Lucia's). Meanwhile he must get on with his tragedy. He could easily finish it in six weeks,
and expiate the crime by months of journalism.

He did finish it in six weeks; and when the Spring came he began another; for the hand of the
god was heavy upon him. This he knew was madness, though a madness divine and irresistible.
In view of its continuance he called upon Mackinnon and inquired whether at any time, if the
occasion should arise, he could count upon an advance of salary. Mackinnon, solid, impenetrable,
but benignant, replied that very possibly it might be so. This Rickman interpreted as a distinct
encouragement to dally with the Tragic Muse. It was followed by a request from Mackinnon that
Rickman on his part should oblige him with a few columns in advance. This he did. He was now,
though he was blissfully unaware of it, the last man on the paper. In six months from the time
of his joining its staff the Literary Observer ceased from observing, and Mackinnon retired
suddenly into private life.

Dicky, who had watched with joy the decline of the Literary Observer, chuckled openly at its
fall. He was sorry for old Razors, though. It was hard luck on him. Old Razors, in Dicky's
opinion, was about done for now.

It might have seemed so to Rickman but that the experience had sobered him. He rose from the
embraces of the Tragic Muse. Yet dizzy with the august rapture, he resisted and defied the
god. He thrust his tragedy from him into the hindmost obscurity of his table-drawer. Then he
betook himself, in a mood more imperative than solicitous, to Hanson. Hanson who had labelled
him Decadent, and lumped him with Letheby. It was no matter now. Whatever Hanson thought of
his genius, there could be but one opinion of his talent.

Hanson was genial and complimentary. He, like Mackinnon, knew his business too well to let
Savage Keith Rickman slip through his fingers. Like Mackinnon he was pleased with the idea
of securing a deserter from the insufferable Jewdwine. But the Courier was full up with war
news and entirely contented with its staff. Hanson was only good for occasional contributions.

Rickman again overhauled his complicated accounts. By what seemed to him a series of miracles
he had saved seventy-five pounds somehow during those six months with Mackinnon; but how he
was going to raise a hundred in four months he did not know. That was what he meant to try
for, though. It was July; and he loved more than ever the green peace of Torrington Square,
and the room associated with the first austere delights of poverty and the presence of the
Tragic Muse. But he could forego even peace for four months. After much search in the secret
places of Bloomsbury, he found an empty attic in Howland Street. The house was clean, decent,
and quiet for a wonder. Thither he removed himself and his belongings. He had parted with all
but the absolutely essential, among which he reckoned all Lucia's books and a few of his own.
He had stripped himself for this last round with Fortune. He would come out of it all right
if he wrote nothing but articles, lived on ten shillings a week and sold the articles; which,
meant that in the weeks when no articles were sold he must live on less. It meant, too, that
he must make his own bed, sweep his own room, and cook his own meals when they were cooked
at all; that to have clean linen he must pay the price of many meals, as he counted meals.

The attic was not a nice place in July and August. Though the house was quiet, there flowed
through it, in an incessant, suffocating, sickly stream, the untamed smells and noises of the
street. For the sake of peace he took to working through the night and going to bed in the
day-time; an eccentricity which caused him to be regarded with some suspicion by his neighbours.
In spite of their apparent decency he had judged it expedient to keep his door locked, a lack
of confidence that wounded them. The lodger in the garret next to his went so far as to signify
by laughter her opinion of his unfriendly secrecy. Her own door was never shut except when
he shut it. This interference with her liberty she once violently resented, delivering herself
of a jet of oratory that bore with far-fetched fancy on his parentage and profession. For her
threshold was her vantage ground. Upon it she stood and waited, listening for the footsteps
of her luck.

It was a marvel to him how under these conditions he could turn out the amount of work he did.
For some nights were as noisy as the day. There was no sort of repose about his next-door neighbour.
At times she coughed all night, at times she sang. Or again, by sounds of sobbing he gathered
that the poor wretch was not prospering in her trade. Still, there were long and blessed intervals
of peace when she roamed farther afield; intervals which might or might not be prolonged by
alcoholic stupor after her return. It may have been owing to these influences that he began
to notice a decided deterioration in his prose. Hanson had returned his last article. He had
worked poor Hanson's geniality for all it was worth, and he felt that in common prudence he
must withdraw from the Courier for a season. Meanwhile his best prose, the articles he had
by him, remained unpublished. In war-time there was no market for such wares.

It was now October, and he had paid off but fifteen pounds of the hundred he still owed. The
lease of the little house at Ealing was out at Michaelmas; he had the five pounds provided
every quarter by the furniture. He sold his furniture and the last of his books, but when Dicky's
bill fell due in November he was still fifty pounds to the bad. The fact that he had already
paid three thousand and thirty-five would not prevent the sale and dispersal of part, and perhaps
the most valuable part, of the Harden Library. In that event he would get the money, not the
books, and it was the books, all the books, he wanted. He had persuaded himself that the actual
redemption of the whole was the only legitimate means by which he could now approach Lucia
Harden. The mere repayment of the money was a coarser and more difficult method. And now at
the last moment the end, all but achieved, was as far from him as ever, supposing Dicky should
refuse to renew his bill.

But Dicky did not refuse. He gave him another two months. No longer term could be conceded;
but, yes, he would give him another two months. "Just for the almighty fun of the thing. If
there's one thing I like to see," said Dicky, "it's pluck." Dicky was more than ever sure of
his game. He argued rightly that Rickman would never have sold his books if he could have sold
his articles or borrowed from a friend; that, as he had nothing else to sell or offer as security,
his end was certain. But it was so glorious to see the little fellow fighting his luck. Dicky
was willing to prolong the excitement for another two months.

For two months he fought it furiously.

He spent many hours of many days in trying to find work; a difficult thing when a man has cut
himself loose from all his friends. Strangers were not likely to consider his superior claims
when the kind of work for which he was now applying could be done by anybody as well or better.
He counted himself uncommonly happy if he got a stray book to review or a job at the Museum,
or if Vaughan held out the promise of giving him some translation by-and-by.

The conditions under which he worked were now appalling. It was hard to say whether the attic
was more terrible in summer, or in the winter that forced him to the intimate and abominable
companionship of his oil-stove. Nor was that all. A new horror was added to his existence.
He was aware that he had become an object of peculiar interest to the woman in the next room,
that she waited for him and stealthily watched his going out and his coming in. As he passed
on the landing two eyes, dull or feverish, marked him through the chink of the door that never
closed. By some hideous instinct of her kind she divined the days when he was in luck. By another
instinct she divined also his nature. His mystic apathy held her brute soul in awe; and she
no longer revenged herself by furious and vindictive song. So he stayed on, for he owed rent,
and removals were expensive.

He found also that there were limits to the advantages of too eccentric an asceticism in diet.
No doubt the strange meals he prepared for himself on his oil-stove had proved stimulating
by their very strangeness; but when the first shock and surprise of them had worn off he no
longer obtained that agreeable result. Perhaps there was something cloying in so much milk
and cocoa; he fancied he gained by diluting these rich foods with water. It certainly seemed
to him that his veins were lighter and carried a swifter and more delicate current to his brain,
that his thoughts now flowed with a remarkable fineness and lucidity. And then all of a sudden
the charm stopped working. What food he ate ceased to nourish him. He grew drowsy by day, and
had bad dreams at night. He had not yet reached the reconciling stage of nausea, but was forever
tormented by a strong and healthy craving for a square meal. There was a poor devil on the
floor below him whose state in comparison with his own was affluence. That man had a square
meal every Sunday. Even she, the lady of the ever-open door, was better off than he; there
was always, or nearly always, a market for her wares.

His sufferings would have been unendurable if any will but his own had imposed them on him
in the beginning. Not that he could continue to regard his poverty as a destiny in any way
angelic. It was because hitherto he had not known the real thing, because he had seen it from
very far away, that it had worn for him that divine benignant aspect. Now it was very near
him; a sordid insufferable companion that dogged his elbow in the street, that sat with him
by his fireless hearth, that lay beside him all night, a loathsome bedfellow, telling him a
shameful, hopeless tale, and driving the blessed sleep away from him. There were times when
he envied his neighbour her nirvana of gin and water; times when the gross steam of the stew
prepared for the man below awoke in him acute, intolerable emotion; times when the spiritual
will that dominated him, so far from being purified by abstinence, seemed merged in the will
of the body made conspicuous and clamorous by hunger.

There were ways in which he might have satisfied it. He could have obtained a square meal any
day from Mrs. Downey or the Spinkses; but now that the value of a square meal had increased
so monstrously in imagination, his delicacy shrank from approaching his friends with conscious
designs upon their hospitality. Spinks was always asking him to dine at his house in Camden
Town; but he had refused because he would have had abominable suspicions of his own motives
in accepting. Trust Flossie to find him out too. And latterly he had hidden himself from the
eye of Spinks. There were moments now when he might have been tempted to borrow fifty pounds
from Spinks and end it; but he could not bring himself to borrow from Flossie's husband. The
last time he had dined with them he thought she had looked at him as if she were afraid he
was going to borrow money. He knew it so well, that gleam of the black eyes, half subtle and
half savage. For Flossie had realized her dream, and her little hand clung passionately to
the purse that provided for Muriel Maud. He couldn't borrow from Spinky. From Jewdwine? Never.
From Hanson? Hardly. From Vaughan? Possibly. Vaughan was considering the expediency of publishing
his tragedy, and might be induced to advance him a little on account. Such possibilities visited
him in the watches of the night, but dawn revealed their obvious futility. And yet he knew
all the time he had only to go to Maddox for the money, and he would get it. To Maddox or to
Rankin, Rankin whose books stood open on every bookstall, whose face in its beautiful photogravure
portrait smiled so impenetrably, guarding the secret of success. But he could not go to them
without giving them the explanation he was determined not to give. He knew what they thought
of him; therefore he would not go to them. If they had known him better they would have come
to him.

He was reminded of them now by seeing in The Planet an obituary notice of young Paterson. Paterson
had been dying slowly all the year, and December finished him. Though Rickman had been expecting
the news for months, the death accomplished affected him profoundly. And at the thought of
the young poet whom he had seemed to have so greatly wronged, at the touch of grief and pity
and divine regret, his own genius, defied and resisted, descended on him again out of heaven.
It was as if the spirit of young Paterson, appeased and reconciled, had bequeathed to him its
own immortal adolescence. He finished the poem in four nights, sitting in his great coat, with
his legs wrapped in his blankets, and for the last two nights drinking gin and water to keep
the blood beating in his head. In the morning he felt as if it were filled with some light
and crackling and infinitely brittle substance, the ashes of a brain that had kindled, flamed,
and burned itself away. It was the last onslaught of the god, the last mad flaring of the divine
fire.

For now he could write no longer. His whole being revolted against the labour of capturing
ideas, of setting words in their right order. The least effort produced some horrible sensation.
Now it was of a plunging heart that suddenly reversed engines while his brain shivered with
the shock; now of a little white wave that swamped his brain with one pulse of oblivion; now
it was a sudden giving way of the floor of consciousness, through which his thoughts dropped
downwards headlong into the abyss. He had great agony and distress in following their flight.
At night as he lay in bed, watching the feeble, automatic procession of ideas, he noticed that
they arrived in an order that was not the order of sanity, that if he took note of the language
they clothed themselves in, he found he was listening as it were to the gabble of idiocy or
aphasia. At such moments he trembled for his reason.

At first these horrors would vanish in the brief brilliance that followed the act of eating;
but before long, in the next stage of exhaustion, food induced nothing but a drunken drowsiness.
He had once said as an excuse for refusing wine that he could get drunk on anything else as
well. In these days he got dead drunk on oatmeal porridge, while he produced a perishing ecstasy
on bread and milk. But of genuine intoxication the pennyworth of gin and water that sustained
the immortal Elegy was his last excess.

He sent the poem to Hanson. Hanson made no sign. But about the middle of January Rankin of
all people broke the silence that had bound them for a year and a half. Rankin did not know
his address, even Hanson had forgotten it. The letter had been forwarded by one of Hanson's clerks.

     "My dear Rickman," it said, "where are you? And what are you
     doing? I dined with Hanson the other night, and he showed me your
     Elegy. It's too long for The Courier, and he's sending it back
     to you with a string of compliments. If you have no other
     designs, can you let us have it for The Planet? For Paterson's
     sake it ought to appear at once. My dear fellow, I should like to
     tell you what I think of it, but I will only state my profound
     conviction that you have given poor Paterson the fame he should
     have had and couldn't get, anymore than we could get it for him;
     and I, as his friend, thank you for this magnificent tribute to
     his genius. Will you do me the honour of dining with me on Sunday
     if you have nothing better to do? There are many things I should
     like to talk over with you, and my wife is anxious to make your
     acquaintance.

     "Sincerely yours,

     "Herbert Rankin.

     "PS.--Maddox is out of town at present, but you'll meet him if
     you come on Sunday. By the way, I saw your friend Jewdwine the
     other day. He explained at my request a certain matter which I
     own with great regret should never have required explanation."

So Jewdwine had explained. And why had not Rankin asked for the explanation sooner? Why had
he had to ask for it at all? Still, it was decent of him to admit that he ought not to have
required it.

He supposed that he must accept Rankin's invitation to dine. Except for his hunger, which made
the prospect of dining so unique and great a thing, he had no reason for refusing. Rankin had
reckoned on a scruple, and removed the ground of it. He knew that there was no approaching
Rickman as long as there remained the shadow of an assumption that the explanation should have
come from him.

The invitation had arrived just in time, before Rickman had sent the last saleable remnants
of his wardrobe to the place where his dress-suit had gone before. He would have to apologize
to Mrs. Rankin for its absence, but his serge suit was still presentable, for he had preserved
it with much care, and there was one clean unfrayed shirt in his drawer.

But when Sunday came, the first febrile excitement of anticipation was succeeded by the apathy
of an immense fatigue, and at the back of it all a loathsome sense of the positive indecency
of his going. It was hunger that was driving him, the importunate hunger of many months, apparent
in his lean face and shrunken figure. And after all could any dinner be worth the pain of dressing
for it? When at the last moment he discovered a loose button on his trousers, he felt that
there was no motive, no power on earth that could urge him to the task of securing it. And
when it broke from its thread and fell, and hid itself under the skirting board in a sort of
malignant frenzy, he took its behaviour as a sign that he would do well to forego that dinner
at Rankin's. He had hardly acquiesced in this decision when reason reasserted itself and told
him that everything depended on that dinner and that the dinner depended on the button; therefore
that in all God's universe there was nothing so important, so essential to him as that button.
He went down on his knees and dislodged the button with a penknife, after an agonizing search.
He sat feebly on the edge of his bed, and with many sad, weak blasphemies bowed himself to
a miserable, ignominious struggle. All malign and adverse fortunes seemed to be concentrated
in the rolling, slippery, ungovernable thing.

The final victory was his, such a victory as amounted to a resurgence of the spiritual will.

CHAPTER LXX

All things seemed to work together to create an evening of misunderstanding rather than of
reconciliation. To begin with he arrived at the Rankins' half an hour after the time appointed.
Rankin lived in Sussex Square, which seemed to him an interminably long way off. The adventure
with the trouser button, and a certain dizziness which precluded all swift and decided movement,
would have been enough to make him late, even if he had not miscalculated the distance between
Hyde Park and Bloomsbury.

He had also miscalculated the distance between Rankin the junior journalist and Rankin the
celebrity. Rankin had achieved celebrity in a way he had not meant. There was a time when even
Jewdwine was outdone by the young men of The Planet in honest contempt for the taste and judgement
of the many; when it had been Rankin's task to pursue with indefatigable pleasantry the figures
of popular renown. And now he was popular himself. The British public had given to him its
fatal love.

At first he looked on himself as a man irretrievably disgraced. However proudly he might bear
himself in the company of strangers, he approached his colleagues with the air of a man made
absurd by unsolicited attentions, persecuted and compromised to the last degree. The bosses
of his ruddy face displayed all the quiverings and tortures and suffusions of a smiling shame.
He was, however, compensated for the loss of personal dignity by a very substantial income.
Not that at first he would admit the compensation. "Ricky," he would say in the voice of a
man bowed and broken on the wheel of life, "you needn't envy me my thousands. They are the
measure of my abasement." Yet he continued to abase himself. Nothing was more amazing than
his versatility. The public could hardly keep up with the flight of Rankin's incarnations.
Drawing-room comedy, pathetic pastoral, fantastic adventure, slum idyll and medieval romance,
it was all one to Rankin. An infallible instinct told him which genre should be chosen at any
given moment; a secret tocsin sounded far-off the hour of his success. And still the spirit
of Rankin held itself aloof; and underneath his many disguises he remained a junior journalist.
But latterly (since his marriage with a rich City merchant's daughter) an insidious seriousness
had overtaken him; he began first to tolerate, then to respect, then to revere the sources
of his affluence. The old ironic spirit was there to chastise him whenever he caught himself
doing it; but that spirit made discord with the elegant respectability which was now the atmosphere
of his home.

Rankin's drawing-room (where he was now waiting for Rickman) was furnished with the utmost
correctness in the purest Chippendale, upholstered in silver and grey and lemon and rose brocade;
it had grey curtains, rose-lined, with a design of true lovers' knots in silver; straight draperies
of delicate immaculate white muslin veiled the window-panes; for the feet an interminable stretch
of grey velvet carpet whose pattern lay on it like a soft shadow. Globes of electric light
drooped clustering under voluminously fluted shades. Rankin himself looked grossly out of keeping
with the scene. It was (and they both knew it) simply the correct setting for his wife, who
dominated it, a young splendour of rose-pink and rose-white and jewelled laces and gold.

Rickman, after many weeks' imprisonment between four dirty yellow ochre walls, was bewildered
with the space, the colours, the perfumes, the illumination. He was suffering from a curious
and, it seemed to him, insane illusion, the illusion of distance, the magnifying of the spaces
he had got to traverse, and as he entered Mrs. Rankin's drawing-room the way from the threshold
to the hearthrug stretched before him as interminably as the way from Howland Street to Sussex
Square. But of any other distance he was blissfully unaware. Beside his vision of Lucia Harden
Mrs. Herbert Rankin was an entirely insignificant person.

Now Rankin was a little afraid of the elegant lady his wife. He had had to apologise to her
many times for the curious people he brought to the house, and he was anxious that Rickman
should make a good impression. He was also hungry, as hungry as a man can be who has three
square meals every day of his life. Therefore he was annoyed with Rickman for being late.

But his annoyance vanished at the first sight of him. His handshake was significant of atonement
and immutable affection. He introduced him almost fearlessly to his wife. He had been at some
pains to impress upon her that she was about to entertain a much greater man than her husband,
and that it would be very charming of her if she behaved accordingly. At this she pouted prettily,
as became a bride, and he pointed out that as Keith Rickman was a poet his greatness was incommensurable
with that of her husband, it left him undisturbed upon his eminence as the supreme master of
prose. So that Mrs. Rankin smiled dimly and deferentially as an elegant hostess must smile
upon a poet who has kept her waiting. There were two other ladies there (Rankin's mother and
sister from the provinces); their greeting conveyed a rustling and excited consciousness of
the guest's distinction.

As Rankin's family retreated, Maddox heaved himself forward and grasped Rickman's hand without
a word.

Rickman had no very clear idea of what happened in the brief pause before dinner. His first
sensation was one of confused beatitude and warmth, of being received into an enfolding atmosphere
of friendliness. He was sure it was friendliness that made Maddox pluck him by the arm and
draw him down beside him on the sofa; and he was too tired to wonder why Maddy should think
it necessary to whisper into his collar, "Steady, you'll be all right if you sit still, old
man." The strange voices of the women confused him further, and standing made him giddy: he
was glad to sit still in his corner obliterated by Maddy's colossal shoulders. It was friendliness,
he knew, that made Rankin dispense with ceremony and pilot him through those never-ending spaces
to the dining-room. And it must have been an exaggeration of the same feeling that made him
(regardless of his wife's uplifted eyebrows) insist on placing the guest of the evening between
Maddox and himself. It was later on, about the time when the wine went round, that Rickman
became aware of a change, of a subtle undefined hostility in the air. He wondered whether the
Rankins were annoyed with him because of his inability to take a brilliant part in the conversation
or to finish any one thing that he took upon his plate. But for the life of him he couldn't
help it. He was too tired to talk, and he had reached that stage of hunger when the desire
to eat no longer brought with it the power of eating, when the masterpieces of Rankin's chef
excited only terror and repugnance. He ate sparingly as starving men must eat, and he drank
more sparingly than he ate; for he feared the probable effect of unwonted stimulants. So that
his glass appeared ever to be full.

The hostility was more Mrs. Herbert Rankin's attitude than that of her husband, but he noticed
a melancholy change in Rankin. His geniality had vanished, or lingered only in the curl of
his moustache. He was less amusing than of old. His conversation was no longer that of the
light-hearted junior journalist flinging himself recklessly into the tide of talk; but whatever
topic was started he turned it to himself. He was exceedingly indignant on the subject of the
war, which he regarded more as a personal grievance than as a national calamity. No doubt it
was his eminence that constituted him the centre of so vast a range.

"The worst of it is," said he, "whichever side beats it's destruction to royalties. I lost
a clean thousand on Spion Kop and I can tell you I didn't recover much on Mafeking, though
I worked Tommy Atkins for all he was worth. This year my sales have dropped from fifty to thirty
thousand. I can't stand many more of these reverses."

He paused, dubious, between two entrées.

"If it's had that effect on me," said the great man, "Heaven only knows what it's done to other
people. How about you, Rickman?"

"Oh, I'm all right, thanks." The war had ruined him, but his ruin was not the point of view
from which he had yet seriously regarded it. He was frankly disgusted with his old friend's tone.

"If it goes on much longer, I shall be obliged," said Rankin solemnly, "to go out to the seat
of war."

Rickman felt a momentary glow. He was exhilarated by the idea of Rankin at the seat of war.
He said he could see Rankin sitting on it.

Rankin laughed, for he was not wholly dead to the humour of his own celebrity; but there was
a faint silken rustle at the head of the table, subtle and hostile, like the stirring of a
snake. Mrs. Herbert Rankin bent her fine flat brows towards the poet, with a look ominous and
intent. The look was lost upon Rickman and he wondered why Maddox pressed his foot.

"Have you written anything on the war, Mr. Rickman?" she asked.

"No; I haven't written anything on the war."

She looked at him almost contemptuously as at a fool who had neglected an opportunity.

"What do you generally write on, then?"

Rickman looked up with a piteous smile. He was beginning to feel very miserable and weary,
and he longed to get up and go. It seemed to him that there was no end to that dinner; no end
to the pitiless ingenuity of Rankin's chef. And he always had hated being stared at.

"I don't--generally--write--on anything," he said.

"Your last poem is an exception to your rule, then?"

"It is. I wrote most of that on gin and water," said Rickman desperately.

Rankin had tugged all the geniality out of his moustache, and his face was full of anxiety
and gloom. Maddox tried hard not to snigger. He was not fond of Mrs. Herbert Rankin.

And Rankin's chef continued to send forth his swift and fair creations.

Rickman felt his forehead grow cold and damp. He leaned back and wiped it with his handkerchief.
A glance passed between Maddox and Rankin. But old Mrs. Rankin looked at him and the motherhood
stirred in her heart.

"Won't you change places with me? I expect you're feeling that fire too much at your back."

Maddox plucked his sleeve. "Better stay where you are," he whispered.

Rickman rose instantly to his feet. The horrible conviction was growing on him that he was
going to faint, to faint or to be ignominiously ill. That came sometimes of starving, by some
irony of Nature.

"Don't Maddy--I think perhaps--"

Surely he was going to faint.

Maddox jumped up and held him as he staggered from the room.

Rankin looked at his wife and his wife looked at Rankin. "He may be a very great poet," said
she, "but I hope you'll never ask him to dine here again."

"Never. I can promise you," said Rankin.

The mother had a kinder voice. "I think the poor fellow was feeling ill from that fire."

"Well he might, too," said Rankin with all the bitterness that became the husband of elegant
respectability.

"Go and make him lie down and be sure and keep his head lower than his feet," said Rankin's mother.

"I shouldn't be surprised if Ricky's head were considerably lower than his feet already," said
Rankin. And when he said it the bosses of his face grew genial again as the old coarse junior
journalistic humour possessed itself of the situation. And he went out sniggering and cursing
by turns under his moustache.

Rankin's mother was right. Rickman was feeling very ill indeed. Without knowing how he got
there he found himself lying on a bed in Rankin's dressing-room. Maddox and Rankin were with
him. Maddox had taken off his boots and loosened his collar for him, and was now standing over
him contemplating the effect.

"That's all very well," said Maddox, "but how the dickens am I to get him home? Especially
as we don't know his address."

"Ask him."

"I'm afraid our Ricky-ticky's hardly in a state to give very reliable information."

"Sixty-five Howland Street," said Rickman faintly, and the two smiled.

"It was Torrington Square, but I forget the number."

"Sixty-five Howland Street," repeated Rickman with an effort to be distinct.

Maddox shook his head. Rickman had sunk low enough, but it was incredible to them that he should
have sunk as low as Howland Street. His insistence on that address they regarded as a pleasantry
peculiar to his state. "It's perfectly hopeless," said Maddox. "I don't see anything for it,
Rankin, but to let him stay where he is."

At that Rickman roused himself from his stupor. "If you'd only stop jawing and give me some
brandy, I could go."

"Oh my Aunt!" said Rankin, dallying with his despair.

"It isn't half a bad idea. Try it."

They tried it. Maddox raised the poet's head and Rankin poured the brandy into him. Rankin's
hand was gentle, but there was a sternness about Maddox and his ministrations. And as the brandy
brought the blood back to his brain, Rickman sat up on Rankin's bed, murmuring apologies that
would have drawn pity from the nether mill-stone. But there was no sign of the tenderness that
had warmed him when he came. He could see that they were anxious to get him out of the house.
Since they had been so keen on reconciliation whence this change to hostility and disapproval?
Oh, of course, he remembered; he had been ill (outrageously ill) in Rankin's dressing-room.
Perhaps it wasn't very nice of him; still he didn't do it for his own amusement, and Rankin
might have been as ill as he liked in his dressing-room, if he had had one. Even admitting
that the nature of his calamity was such as to place him beyond the pale of human sympathy,
he thought that Rankin might have borne himself with a somewhat better grace. And why Maddox
should have taken that preposterous tone--

Maddox explained himself as they left Sussex Square.

Rickman did not at first take in the explanation. He was thinking how he could best circumvent
Maddox's obvious intention of hailing a hansom and putting him into it. He didn't want to confess
that he hadn't a shilling in his pocket. Coppers anybody may be short of, and presently he
meant to borrow twopence for a bus. Later on he would have to ask for a loan of fifty pounds;
for you can borrow pounds and you can borrow pennies, but not shillings. Not at any rate if
you are starving.

"If I were you, Ricky," Maddox was saying. "I should go straight to bed when you get home.
You'll be all right in the morning."

"I'm all right now. I can't think what bowled me over."

"Ricky, the prevarication is unworthy of you. Without humbug, I think you might keep off it
a bit before you dine with people. It doesn't matter about us, you know, but it's hardly the
sort of thing Mrs. Rankin's been accustomed to."

"Mrs. Rankin?"

"Well yes, I said Mrs. Rankin; but it's not about her I care--it's about you. Of course you'll
tell me to mind my own business, but I wish--I wish to goodness you'd give it up--altogether.
You did once, why not again? Believe me the game isn't worth the candle." And he said to himself,
noting the sharp lines of his friend's haggard figure, "It's killing him."

"I see," said Rickman slowly. In an instant he saw it all; the monstrous and abominable suspicion
that had rested upon him all the evening. It explained everything. He saw, too, how every movement
of his own had lent itself to the intolerable inference. It was so complete, so satisfactory,
so comprehensive, that he could not wonder that they had found no escape from it. He could
find none himself. There was no way by which he could establish the fact of his sobriety; for
it is the very nature of such accusations to feed upon defence. Denial, whether humorous or
indignant, would but condemn him more. The very plausibility of the imputation acted on him
as a despotic suggestion. He began to feel that he must have been drunk at Rankin's; that he
was drunk now while he was talking to Maddox. And to have told the truth, to have said, "Maddy,
I'm starving. I haven't had a square meal for four months," would have sounded too like a beggar's
whine. Whatever he let out later on, it would be mean to spring all that on Maddox now, covering
him with confusion and remorse.

He laughed softly, aware that his very laugh would be used as evidence against him. "I see.
So you all thought I'd been drinking?"

"Well--if you'll forgive my saying so--"

"Oh, I forgive you. It was a very natural supposition."

"I think you'll have to apologise to the Rankins."

"I think the Rankins'll have to apologise to me."

With every foolish word he was more hopelessly immersed.

He insisted on parting with Maddox at the Marble Arch. After all, he had not borrowed that
fifty pounds nor yet that twopence. Luckily Rankin's brandy enabled him to walk back with less
difficulty than he came. It had also warmed him, so that he did not find out all at once that
he had left his overcoat at Rankin's. He could not go back for it. He could never present himself
at that house again.

It was a frosty night with a bitter wind rising in the east and blowing up Oxford Street. His
attic under the icicled tiles was dark and narrow as the grave. And on the other side of the
thin wall a Hunger, more infernal and malignant than his own, waited stealthily for its prey.

CHAPTER LXXI

It was five o'clock, and Dicky Pilkington was at his ease stretched before the fire in a low
chair in the drawing-room of the flat he now habitually shared with Poppy Grace. It was beatitude
to lie there with his legs nicely toasting, to have his tea (which he did not drink) poured
out for him by the most popular little variety actress in London, and to know that she had
found in him her master. This evening, his intellect in play under many genial influences,
Dicky was once more raising the pæan of Finance. Under some piquant provocation, too; for Poppy
had just informed him, that she "didn't fancy his business."

"Now, look here," said Dicky, "you call yourself an artist. Well--this business of mine isn't
a business, it's an art. Think of the delicacy we 'ave to use. To know to a hairsbreadth how
far you can go with a man, to know when to give him his head with the snaffle and when to draw
him in with the curb. It's a feelin' your way all along. Why, I knew a fellow, a broker--an
uncommonly clever chap he was, too--ruined just for want of a little tact. He was too precipitate,
began hauling his man up just when he ought to have let him go. He'd no imagination, that fellow.
(Don't you go eating too much cake, Popsie, or you'll make your little nose red.) I don't know
any other profession gives you such a grip of life and such a feelin' of power. You've got
some young devil plungin' about, kickin' up his heels all over the shop, say. He thinks he's
got the whole place to break his neck in; and you know the exact minute by your watch that
you can bring him in grovellin' on your office floor. It's the iron 'and in the velvet glove,"
said Dicky.

"I know what you're driving at, and I call it a beastly shame."

"No, it isn't. I shouldn't wonder if old Rickets paid up all right, after all."

"And if he doesn't?"

"If he doesn't--Well--"

"I say, though, think wot a lot he's paid you. Can't you let him go?"

Dicky shook his head and smiled softly as at some interior vision.

"You'll ruin him for a dirty fifty pounds?"

"I won't ruin him. And it isn't for the money, it's for the game. I like," said Dicky, "to
see a man play in first-class style. But I don't blame him if he hasn't got style so long as
he's got pluck. In fact, I don't know that of the two I wouldn't rather have pluck. I've seen
a good many men play this game, but I've never seen any one who came up to old Razors for pluck
and style. It's a treat to see him. Do you suppose I'm going to cut in now and spoil it all
by giving him points? That would take all the gilt off the gingerbread. And do you suppose
he'd let me? Not he; he's spreading the gilt on thick, and he'd see me d----d first."

Dicky smoked, with half-closed eyes fixed on the fire, in speechless admiration. He felt that
he was encouraging the display of high heroism by watching it. He singled out a beautiful writhing
flame, spat at it, and continued: "No, I'll take good care that Rickets doesn't starve. But
I'm going to stand by and see him finish fair. If you like, Popsie, you can back him to win.
I don't care if he doe' win. It would be worth it for what I've got out of him."

By what he had got out of him Dicky meant, not three thousand seven hundred and odd pounds,
but a spectacle beyond all comparison exciting and sublime. For that he was prepared to abandon
any further advantage that might be wrung from the Harden library by a successful manipulation
of the sales.

Poppy did not back Rickman to win; but she determined to call on him at his rooms, and leave
a little note with a cheque and a request that he would pay Dicky and have done with him. "You'd
better owe it to me than to him, old chappy"; thus she wrote in the kindness and impropriety
of her heart. But Rickman never got that little note.

CHAPTER LXXII

Of all the consequences of that terrible dinner at Rankin's there was none that Rickman resented
more than the loss of his overcoat. As he lay between his blankets he still felt all the lashings
of the east wind around his shivering body. He was awake all that night, and the morning found
him feverish with terror of the illness that might overtake him before he attained his end.
He stayed in bed all day to prevent it, and because of his weakness, and for warmth.

But the next day there came a mild and merciful thaw, a tenderness of Heaven that was felt
even under the tiles in Howland Street. And the morning of that day brought a thing that in
all his dreams he had not yet dreamed of, a letter from Lucia.

He read it kneeling on the floor of his garret, supporting himself by the edge of the table.
It was only a few lines in praise of the Elegy (which had appeared in The Planet the week before)
and a postscript that told him she would be staying at Court House with Miss Palliser till
the summer.

He knelt there a long time with his head bowed upon his arms. His brains failed him when he
tried to write an answer, and he put the letter into his breast-pocket, where it lay like a
loving hand against his heart. And yet there was not a word of love in it.

The old indomitable hope rose in his heart again and he forced himself to eat and drink, that
he might have strength for the things he had to do. That night he did not sleep, but lay wrapt
in his beatific passion. His longing was so intense that it created a vision of the thing it
longed for. It seemed to him that he heard Lucia's soft footfall about his bed, that she came
and sat beside his pillow, that she bowed her head upon his breast, and that her long hair
drifted over him. For the beating of his own heart gave him the sense of a presence beside
him all night long, as he lay with his right arm flung across his own starved body, guarding
her letter, the letter that had not a word of love in it.

In the morning he discovered that another letter had lain on his table under Lucia's. It was
from Dicky Pilkington, reminding him that it wanted but seven days to the thirtieth. Dicky
said nothing about any willingness to renew the bill. What did it matter? Dicky would renew
it, Dicky must renew it; he felt that there was force in him to compel Dicky to renew it. He
went out and bought a paper with the price of a meal of milk (he couldn't pawn his good clothes;
their assistance was too valuable in interviews with possible employers). He found the advertisement
of an Exeter bookseller in want of a foreman and expert cataloguer at a salary of ninety pounds.
He answered it by return. In the list of his credentials he mentioned that he had catalogued
the Harden library (a feat, as he knew, sufficient to constitute him a celebrity in the eyes
of the Exeter man). He added that if the bookseller felt inclined to consider his application
he would be obliged by a wire, as he had several other situations in view.

The bookseller wired engaging him for six months. The same day came a cheque for ten pounds
from The Planet, the honorarium for the Elegy. He sent the ten pounds to Dicky at once (by
way of showing what he could do) with a curt note informing him of his appointment and requesting
a renewal for three months, by which time his salary would cover the remainder still owing.

Feeling that no further intellectual efforts were now required of him he went out to feed on
the fresh air. As he crossed the landing an odour of hot pottage came to meet him. Through
the ever-open door he caught a glimpse of a woman's form throned, as it were, above clouds
of curling steam. A voice went out, hoarse with a supreme emotion.

"Come in, you there, and 'ave a snack, wontcher?" it said.

"No, thank you," he answered.

"Garn then. I'll snack yer for a ----y fool!"

And from the peaceableness of the reply he gathered that this time the lady was not soliciting
patronage but conferring it.

He was no longer hungry, no longer weighed upon by his exhausted body. A great restlessness
had seized it, a desire to walk, to walk on and on without stopping. The young day had lured
him into the Regent's Park. So gentle was the weather that, but for bare branches and blanched
sky, it might have been a day in Spring. As he walked he experienced sensations of indescribable
delicacy and lightness, he saw ahead of him pellucid golden vistas of metaphysical splendour,
he skimmed over fields of elastic air with the ease and ecstasy of a blessed spirit.

When he came in he found that the experience prolonged itself through the early night, even
when he lay motionless on his bed staring at the wall. And as he stared it seemed to him that
there passed upon the wall clouds upon clouds of exquisite and evanescent colour, and that
strange forms appeared and moved upon the clouds. He saw a shoal of fishes (they were fishes,
radiant, iridescent, gorgeous fishes, with the tails of peacocks); they swam round and round
the room just under the cornice, an ever-revolving, ever-floating frieze. He was immensely
interested in these decorative hallucinations. His brain seemed to be lifted up, to be iridescent
also, to swim round and round with the swimming fishes.

He woke late in the morning with a violent sore throat and pain in all his body. He was too
giddy to sit up and help himself, but he knocked weakly on the thin wall. His neighbour roused
herself at the faint summons and appeared. She stood at the foot of the bed with her hands
on her hips and contemplated him for a moment. He tried to speak, but his tongue seemed to
be stuck burning to the roof of his mouth. He pointed to his throat.

"Yes, I dessay," said she. "I said you'd get somefing and you've got it." So saying she disappeared
into her own apartment.

As he saw her go despair shook him. He thought that he was abandoned. But presently she returned,
bringing a cup of hot tea with a dash of gin in it from her own breakfast.

"I'd a seen to you afore ef you'd let me," she said. "You tyke it from me, young man, wot you
wants is a good hot lining to your belly. I'd 'ave given it to you ef you'd a let me. I'm a
lydy as tykes her dinner reg'ler, I am. No, you don't--" This, as he turned away his head in
protest. She however secured it firmly with one filthy hand, while with the other she held
the reeking cup to his lips. She had put it to her own first to test the heat and quality of
the brew. Yet he was grateful. He had some difficulty in swallowing; and from time to time
she wiped his mouth with her villainous apron; and he was grateful still, having passed beyond
disgust.

She perceived the gratitude. "Garn," said she, "wot's a cup er tea? I'd a seen to yer afore
ef you'd a let me."

She continued her ministrations; she brought coal in her own scuttle and after immense pains
she lighted a fire in the wretched grate. Then she smoothed his bed-clothes till they were
covered with her smutty trail. She would have gone for a doctor then and there, but difficulty
arose. For doctors meant hospitals, and the man below threatened to sell his lodger's "sticks"
if rent were not forthcoming. She cast her eyes about in search of pawnable articles. They
fell upon his clothes. She took up his shirt and examined it carefully, appraising the sleeve
links and the studs. But when she touched the coat, the coat that had Lucia's letter in the
breast-pocket, Rickman turned in his bed and made agonizing signs, struggling with the voice
that perished in his burning throat.

"Wot's the good," said she, "of a suit when yer can't wear it? As I telled you wot you wa--No,
the's no sorter use your making fyces at me. And you keep your ----y legs in, or I'll--" The
propositions that followed were murmured in a hoarse but crooning tone such as a mother might
have used to soothe a fractious child. She went away, carrying the clothes with her, and turned
out the pockets in her den.

On her return she sent the man below to fetch the doctor. But the man below fell in with boon
companions on the way, and no doctor came. All that night the woman watched by Rickman's bedside,
heedless of her luck. She kept life in him by feeding him with warm milk and gin, a teaspoonful
at a time. Rickman, aware of footsteps in the room, fancied himself back again in Rankin's
dressing-room. The whole scene of that evening floated before him all night long. He had a
sense of presences hostile and offended, of being irretrievably disgraced. In the recurring
nightmare he saw Lucia Harden instead of Mrs. Rankin. So persistently did he see her that when
he woke he could not shake off the impression that she had been actually, if unaccountably,
present, a spectator of his uttermost disgrace. He could never look her in the face again.
No, for he was disgraced; absolutely, irredeemably, atrociously disgraced. Beyond all possibility
of explanation and defence; though he sometimes caught himself explaining and pleading against
those offended phantoms of his brain. Why should he suffer so? Just because of his inability
to deal with Rankin's never-ending dinner, or to pay a debt of millions, many millions of figures
that climbed up the wall. He was not sure which of these two obligations was laid upon him.

He became by turns delirious and drowsy, and the woman fetched a doctor early the next day.
He found enteric and blood-poisoning also, of which Rickman's illness at the Rankins' must
have been the first warning symptoms.

"He'll have to go to the hospital; but you'd better send word to his friends."

"'E ain't got no friends. And I dunno 'oo 'e is."

The doctor said to himself, "Gone under," and looked round him for a clue. He examined a postcard
from Spinks and a parcel (containing an overcoat) from Rankin, with the novelist's name and
address inside the wrapper. The poet's name was familiar to the doctor, who read Metropolis.
He first of all made arrangements for removing his patient to the hospital. Then in his uncertainty
he telegraphed to Jewdwine, to Rankin and to Spinks.

The news of Rickman's illness was thus spread rapidly among his friends. It brought Spinks
that afternoon, and Flossie, the poor Beaver, dragged to Howland Street by her husband to see
what her woman's hands could do. They entered upon a scene of indescribable confusion and clangour.
Poppy Grace, arrived on her errand (for which she had attired herself in a red dress and ermine
tippet), had mounted guard over the unconscious poet.

"Ricky," cried Poppy, bending over him, "won't you speak to me? It's Poppy, dear. Don't you
know me?"

"No, 'e don't know yer, so you needn't arsk 'im."

Poppy placed her minute figure defiantly between Rickman and her rival of the open door. She
had exhausted her emotions in those wild cries, and was prepared to enjoy the moment which
produced in her the hallucination of self-conscious virtue.

The woman, voluble and fierce, began to describe Miss Grace's character in powerful but somewhat
exaggerated language, appealing to the new-comers to vindicate her accuracy. Poppy seated herself
on the bed and held a pocket-handkerchief to her virtuous nose. It was the dumb and dignified
rebuke of Propriety in an ermine tippet, to Vice made manifest in the infamy of rags. The Beaver
retreated in terror on to the landing, where she stood clutching the little basket of jellies
and things which she had brought, as if she feared that it might be torn from her in the violence
of the scene. Spinks, convulsed with anguish by the sight of his friend lying there unconscious,
could only offer an inarticulate expostulation. It was the signal for the woman to burst into
passionate self-defence.

"I ain't took nothing 'cept wot the boss 'e myde me. 'Go fer a doctor?' ses 'e. 'No you don't.
I don't 'ave no ----y doctor messing round 'ere an' cartin' 'im orf to the 'orspital afore
'e's paid 'is rent.' Ses 'e 'I'm--"

The entrance of Maddox and Rankin checked the hideous flow. They were followed by the porters
of the hospital and the nurse in charge. Her presence commanded instantaneous calm.

"There are far too many people in this room," said she. Her expelling glance fell first on
Poppy, throned on the bed, then on the convulsive Spinks. She turned more gently to Rankin,
in whose mouth she saw remonstrance, and to Maddox, in whose eyes she read despair. "It will
really be better for him to take him to the hospital."

"No," cried Spinks, darting in again from the landing, "take him to my house, 45, Dalmeny Av--"
but the Beaver plucked him by the sleeve; for she thought of Muriel Maud.

"No, no, take him to mine, 87, Sussex Square," said Rankin, and he insisted. But in the end
he suffered himself to be overruled; for he thought darkly of his wife.

"I'd give half my popularity if I could save him," he said to Maddox.

"Half your popularity won't save him, nor yet the whole of it," said Maddox savagely. In that
moment they hated themselves and each other for the wrong they had done him. Their hearts smote
them as they thought of the brutalities of Sunday night.

The woman still held her ground in the centre of the room where she stood scowling at the nurse
as she busied herself about the bed.

"I'd a seen to 'im ef 'e'd a let me," she reiterated.

Maddox dealt with her. He flicked a sovereign on to the table. "Look here," said he, "suppose
you take that and go out quietly."

There was a momentary glitter in her eyes, but her fingers hesitated.

"I didn' fink 'e 'ad no frien's wen I come in." It was her way of intimating that what she
had done she had not done for money.

"All right, take it."

She drew out a filthy grey flannel bag from the bosom of her gown and slipped the gold into
it. And still she hesitated. She could not understand why so large a sum was offered for such
slight services as she had rendered. It must have been for--Another thought stirred in her
brute brain.

They were raising Rickman in his bed before taking him away. His shoulders were supported on
the nurse's arm, his head dropped on her breast. The posture revealed all the weakness of his
slender body. The woman turned. And as she looked at the helpless figure she was visited by
a dim sense of something strange and beautiful and pure, something (his helplessness perhaps)
that was outraged by her presence, and called for vindication.

"'E never 'ad no truck with me," she said. It struck Maddox that the denial had a sublimity
and pathos of its own. She dropped the bag into her lean bosom and went out.

And the porters wrapped him in his blankets, and laid him on a stretcher, and carried him out;
past Maddox and Rankin who turned their heads away; past Flossie who shrank a little from the
blankets, but cried softly to see him go; and past the woman standing on her threshold. And
in that manner he passed Horace Jewdwine coming up the stair too late. And all that Jewdwine
could do was to stand back and let him pass.

It was Jewdwine's fear that made him uncover, as in the presence of the dead.

CHAPTER LXXIII

When Rankin, Maddox and Jewdwine stood alone in the garret whence they had seen Rickman carried
away from them, remorse drove all hope of his recovery from their hearts. They learnt some
of the truth about him from the woman in the next room, a keen observer of human nature. Jewdwine
and Rankin, when they too had paid her for her services, were glad to escape from the intolerable
scene. Maddox stayed behind, collecting what he could only think of as Rickman's literary remains.

He found in the table drawer three unpublished articles, a few poems, and the First Act of
the second and unfinished tragedy, saved by its obscure position at the back of the drawer.
The woman owned to having lit the fire with the rest. Maddox cursed and groaned as he thought
of that destruction. He knew that many poems which followed Saturnalia had remained unpublished.
Had they too been taken to light the fire? He turned the garret upside down in search of the
missing manuscripts. At last in a cupboard, he came upon a leather bag. It was locked and he
could find no key, but he wrenched it open with the poker. It contained many manuscripts; among
them the Nine and Twenty Sonnets, and the testament concerning them. He read the Sonnets, but
not the other document which was in a sealed envelope. He found also a bundle of Dicky Pilkington's
receipts and his last letter threatening foreclosure. And when he had packed up the books (Lucia's
books) and redeemed Rickman's clothes from the pawn-shop, he took all these things away with
him for safety.

There was little he could do for Rickman, but he promised himself the pleasure of settling
Dicky's claim. But even that satisfaction was denied him. For Dicky had just renewed his bill
for a nominal three months. Nominal only. Dicky had in view a magnificent renunciation, and
he flatly refused to treat with Maddox or anybody else. He was completely satisfied with this
conclusion; it meant that Rickman, for all his style and pluck, had lost the game and that
he, Pilkington, had done the handsome thing, as he could do it when the fancy took him. For
Dicky's heart had been touched by the tale that Poppy told him, and it melted altogether when
he went and saw for himself poor Ricky lying in his cot in the North-Western Hospital. He had
a great deal of nice feeling about him after all, had Dicky.

Terrible days followed Rickman's removal to the hospital; days when his friends seemed justified
in their sad conviction; days when the doctors gave up hope; days when he would relapse after
some brief recovery; days when he kept them all in agonizing suspense.

But Rickman did not die. As they said, it was not in him to take that exquisitely mean revenge.
It was not in him to truckle to the tradition that ordains that unfortunate young poets shall
starve in garrets and die in hospitals. He had always been an upsetter of conventions, and
a law unto himself. So there came a day, about the middle of March, when he astonished them
all by appearing among them suddenly in Maddox's rooms, less haggard than he had been that
night when he sat starving at Rankin's dinner-table.

And as he came back to them, to Jewdwine, to Maddox and to Rankin, they each could say no more
to him than they had said five years ago. "What a fool you were, Rickman. Why didn't you come
to me?" But when the others had left, Maddox put his hands on Rickman's shoulders and they
looked each other in the face.

"I say, Ricky, what did you do it for?"

But that was more than Rickman could explain, even to Maddox.

They had all contended which should receive him when he came out of hospital; but it was settled
that for the present he should remain with Maddox in his rooms. There Dicky, absolutely prepared
to do the handsome thing, called upon him at an early date. Dicky had promised himself some
exquisite sensations in the moment of magnanimity; but the moment never came. Rickman remained
firm in his determination that every shilling of the debt should be paid and paid by him; it
was more than covered by the money Maddox advanced for his literary remains. Dicky had to own
that the plucky little fellow had won his game, but he added, "You couldn't have done it, Razors,
if I hadn't given you points."

The great thing was that he had done it, and that the Harden library was his, was Lucia's.
It only remained to tell her, and to hand it over to her. He had long ago provided for this
difficult affair. He wrote, as he had planned to write, with a judicious hardness, brevity
and restraint. He told her that he desired to see her on some business connected with the Harden
library, in which he was endeavouring to carry out as far as possible his father's last wishes.
He asked to be allowed to call on her some afternoon in the following week. He thanked her
for her letter without further reference, and he remained--"sincerely"? No, "faithfully" hers.

He told Maddox that he thought of going down to Devonshire to recruit.

CHAPTER LXXIV

Lucia was suffering from the disagreeable strain of a divided mind. To begin with she was not
altogether pleased with Mr. Rickman. He had taken no notice of the friendly little letter she
had written about the Elegy, her evident intention being to give him pleasure. She had written
it on impulse, carried away by her ardent admiration. That was another of those passionate
indiscreet things, which were followed by torments of her pride. And the torments had followed.
His two months' silence had reproved her ardour, had intimated to her that he was in no mood
to enter in at the door which she had closed to him three years ago. She took it that he had
regarded her poor little olive branch as an audacity. And now that he had written there was
not a word about the subject of her letter. He had only written because business compelled
him, and his tone was not only cold, but positively austere.

But, she reflected, business after all did not compel him to come down and see her. Having
reached this point she became aware that her heart was beating most uncomfortably at the bare
idea of seeing him. For the first time this anticipation inspired her with anxiety and fear.
Until their last meeting in Tavistock Place there had been in all their intercourse something
intangible and rare, something that, though on her part it had lacked the warmth of love, she
had acknowledged to be finer than any friendship. That beautiful intangible quality had perished
in the stress of their final meeting. And even if it came to life again it could never be the
same, or so she thought. She had perceived how much its permanence had depended on external
barriers, on the social gulf, and on the dividing presence of another woman. She could not
separate him from his genius; and his genius had long ago overleapt the social gulf. And now,
without poor Flossie, without the safeguard of his engagement, she felt herself insecure and
shelterless. More than ever since he had overleapt that barrier too.

But though Lucia had found out all these things, she had not yet found out why it was that
she had been so glad to hear that Keith Rickman was going to be married, nor why she had been
so passionately eager to keep him to his engagement. In any case she could not have borne to
be the cause of unhappiness to another woman; and that motive was so natural that it served
for all.

As things had turned out, if he had married, that, she had understood, would have been such
a closing of the door as would have shut him out for ever. And now that he was knocking at
the door again, now that there was no reason why, once opened, it should not remain open, she
began to be afraid of what might enter in with him. She made up her mind that she would not
let him in. So she sat down and wrote a cold little note to say that she was afraid she would
not be able to see him next week. Could he not explain the business in writing? She took that
letter to the post herself. And as each step brought her nearer to the inevitable act, the
conviction grew on her that this conduct of hers was cowardly, and unworthy both of him and
of herself. A refusal to see him was a confession of fear, and fear assumed the existence of
the very thing his letter had ignored. It was absurd too, if he had come to see that his feeling
for her was (as she persisted in believing it to be) a piece of poetic folly, an illusion of
the literary imagination. She turned back and tore up that cold little note, and wrote another
that said she would be very glad to see him any day next week, except Friday. There was no
reason why she should have excepted Friday; but it sounded more business-like somehow.

She did not take Kitty into her confidence, and in this she failed to perceive the significance
of her own secrecy. She told herself that there was no need to ask Kitty's advice, because
she knew perfectly well already what Kitty's advice would be.

He came on Tuesday. Monday was too early for his self-respect, Wednesday too late for his impatience.
He had looked to find everything altered in and about Court House; and he saw, almost with
surprise, the same April flowers growing in the green garden, and the same beech-tree dreaming
on the lawn. He recognized the black rifts in its trunk and the shining sweep of its branches
overhead. The door was opened by Robert, and Robert remembered him. There was a shade more
gravity in the affectionate welcome, but then Robert was nine years older. He was shown into
the drawing-room, and it, too, was much as he had left it nine years ago.

Kitty Palliser was there; she rose to meet him with her irrepressible friendliness, undiminished
by nine years. There was nothing cold and business-like about Kitty.

"Will you tell Miss Harden?" said she to the detached, retreating Robert. Then she held out
her hand. "I am very glad to see you." But a wave of compassion rather than of gladness swept
over her face as she looked at him. She made him sit down, and gave him tea. There was a marked
gentleness in all her movements, unlike the hilarious lady she used to be.

The minutes went by and Lucia did not appear. He could not attend to what Kitty was saying.
His eyes were fixed on the door that looked as if it were never going to open. Kitty seemed
to bear tenderly with his abstraction. Once he glanced round the room, recognizing familiar
objects. He had expected, after Dicky's descent on Court House, to find nothing recognizable
in it. Kitty was telling him how an uncle of hers had lent them the house for a year, how he
had bought it furnished, and how, but for the dismantled library and portrait gallery, it was
pretty much as it had been in Miss Harden's time. So unchanged was it and its atmosphere that
Rickman felt himself in the presence of a destiny no less unchanging and familiar. He had come
on business as he had done nine years ago; and he felt that the events of that time must in
some way repeat themselves, that when he was alone with Lucia he would say to her such things
as he had said before, that there would be differences, misunderstandings, as before, and that
his second coming would end in misery and separation like the first. It seemed to him that
Kitty, kind Kitty, had the same perception and foreboding. Thus he interpreted her very evident
compassion. She meant to console him.

"Robert remembers you," said she.

"That's very clever of Robert," said he.

"No, it's only his faithfulness. What a funny thing faithfulness is. Robert won't allow any
one but Miss Harden to be mistress here. My people are interlopers, abominations of desolation.
He can barely be civil to their friends. But to hers--he is as you see him. It's a good thing
for me I'm her friend, or he wouldn't let me sit here and pour out tea for you."

He thought over the speech. It admitted an encouraging interpretation. But Miss Palliser may
have been more consoling than she had meant.

She rattled on in the kindness of her heart. He was grateful for her presence; it calmed his
agitation and prepared him to meet Lucia with composure when she came. But Lucia did not come;
and he began to have a horrible fear that at the last moment she would fail him. He refused
the second cup that Kitty pressed on him, and she looked at him compassionately again. He was
so used to his appearance that he had forgotten how it might strike other people. He was conscious
only of Kitty's efforts to fill up agreeably these moments of suspense.

At last it ended. Lucia was in the doorway. At the sight of her his body shook and the strength
in his limbs seemed to dissolve and flow downwards to the floor. His eyes never left her as
she came to him with her rhythmic unembarrassed motion. She greeted him as if they had met
the other day; but as she took his hand she looked down at it, startled by its slenderness.
He was glad that she seated herself on his right, for he felt that the violence of his heart
must be audible through his emaciated ribs.

Kitty made some trivial remark, and Lucia turned to her as if her whole soul hung upon Kitty's
words. Her absorption gave him time to recover himself. (It did not occur to him that that
was what she had turned away for.) Her turning enabled him to look at her. He noticed that
she seemed in better health than when he had seen her last, and that in sign of it her beauty
was stronger, more vivid and more defined.

They said little to each other. But when Kitty had left them they drew in their chairs to the
hearth with something of the glad consent of those for whom the long-desired moment has arrived.
He felt that old sense of annihilated time, of return to a state that had never really lapsed;
and it struck him that she, too, had that feeling. It was she who spoke first.

"Before you begin your business, tell me about yourself."

"There isn't anything to tell."

She looked as if she rather doubted the truth of that statement.

"If you don't mind, I'd rather begin about the business and get it over."

"Why, is it--is it at all unpleasant?"

He smiled. "Not in the least, not in the very least. It's about the library."

"I thought we'd agreed that that was all over and done with long ago?"

"Well, you see, it hasn't anything to do with us. My father--"

"Don't let us go back to that."

"I'm sorry, but we must--a little. You know my father and I had a difference of opinion?"

"I know--I know."

"Well, in the end he owned that I was right. That was when he was dying."

He wished she would not look at him; for he could not look at her. He was endeavouring to make
his tale appear in the last degree natural and convincing. Up till now he had told nothing
but the truth, but as he was about to enter on the path of perjury he became embarrassed by
the intentness of her gaze.

"You were with him?" she asked.

"Yes." He paused a moment to command a superior kind of calm. That pause wrecked him, for it
gave her also time for thought. "He wanted either to pay you the money that you should have
had, or to hand over the library; and I thought--"

"But the library was sold?"

He explained the matter of the mortgage, carefully, but with an amount of technical detail
meant to impose and mystify.

"Then how," she asked, "was the library redeemed?"

He repudiated an expression so charged with moral and emotional significance. He desired to
lead her gently away from a line of thought that if pursued would give her intelligence the
clue. "You can't call it redeemed. Nobody redeemed it. The debt, of course, had to be paid
out of my father's estate."

"In which case the library became yours?"

He smiled involuntarily, for she had him there, and she knew it.

"It became nothing of the sort, and if it had I could hardly go against my father's wishes
by holding on to it."

"Can't you see that it's equally impossible for me to take it?"

"Why? Try and think of it as a simple matter of business."

He spoke like a tired man, straining after a polite endurance of her feminine persistence and
refining fantasy. "It hasn't anything to do with you or me."

Thus did he turn against her the argument with which she had crushed him in another such dispute
nine years ago.

"I am more business-like than you are. I remember perfectly well that your father paid more
than a thousand pounds for those books in the beginning."

"That needn't trouble you. It has been virtually deducted. I'm sorry to say a few very valuable
books were sold before the mortgage and could not be recovered."

He had given himself away by that word "recovered." Her eyes searched him through and through
to find his falsehood, as they had searched him once before to find his truth. "It is very,
very good of you," she said.

"Of me? Am I bothering you? Don't think of me except as my father's executor."

"Did you know that he wanted you to do this, or did you only think it? Was it really his express
wish?"

He looked her in the face and lied boldly and freely. "It was. Absolutely."

And as she met that look, so luminously, so superlatively sincere, she knew that he had lied.
"All the same," said she, "I can't take it. Don't think it unfriendly of me. It isn't. In fact,
don't you see it's just because we have been--we are--friends that I must refuse it? I can't
take advantage of that"--she was going to say "feeling," but thought better of it.

"And don't you see by refusing you are compelling me to be dishonourable? If you were really
my friend you would think more of my honour than of your own scruples. Or is that asking too
much?" He felt that he had scored in this game of keen intelligences.

"No. But it would be wrong of me to let your honour be influenced by our friendship."

"Don't think of our friendship, then. It's all pure business, as brutally impersonal as you like."

"If I could only see it that way."

"I should have thought it was quite transparently and innocently clear." He had scored again.
For now he had taxed her with stupidity. "If I could persuade you that it came from my father,
you wouldn't mind. You mind because you think it comes from me. Isn't that so?"

She was silent, and he knew.

"How can I persuade you? I can only repeat that I've absolutely nothing to do with it." There
was but little friendliness about him now. His whole manner was full of weariness and irritation.
"Why should you imagine that I had?"

"Because it would have been so very like you."

"Then I must be lying abominably. Is that so very like me?"

"I have heard you do it before--once--twice--magnificently."

"When?"

"About this time nine years ago."

He remembered. The wonder was that she should have remembered too.

"I daresay. But what possible motive could I have for lying now?"

He had scored heavily this time. Far too heavily. There was a flame in Lucia's face which did
not come from the glow of the fire, a flame that ran over her neck and forehead to the fine
tips of her ears. For she thought, supposing all the time he had been telling her the simple
truth? Why should she have raised that question? Why should she have taken for granted that
any personal interest should have led him to do this thing? And in wondering she was ashamed.
He saw her confusion, and attributed it to another cause.

"I'm only asking you to keep the two things distinct, as I do--as I must do," he said gently.

"I'll think about it, and let you know to-morrow."

"But I'm going to-night."

"Oh no, I can't let you do that. You must stay over the night. Your room is ready for you."

He protested; she insisted; and in the end she had her way, as he meant to have his way to-morrow.

He stayed, and all that evening they were very kind to him. Kitty talked gaily throughout dinner;
and afterwards Lucia played to him while he rested, propped up with great cushions (she had
insisted on the cushions) in her chair. Kitty, his hostess, drew back, and seemed to leave
these things to Lucia as her right. He knew it was Lucia, and not Kitty, who ran up to his
room to see that all was comfortable and that his fire burnt well. In everything she said and
did there was a peculiar gentleness and care. It was on the same lines as Kitty's compassion,
only more poignant and intense. It was, he thought, as if she knew that it was for the last
time, that of all these pleasant things to-morrow would see the end. Was it kind of her to
let him know what her tenderness could be when to-morrow must end it all? For he had no notion
of the fear evoked by his appearance, the fear that was in both their hearts. He did not know
why they looked at him with those kind glances, nor why Lucia told him that Robert was close
at hand if he should want anything in the night. He slept in the room that had once been Lucia's,
the room above the library, looking to the western hills. He did not know that they had given
it him because it was a good room to be ill and to get well in.

Lucia and Kitty sat up late that night over the fire, and they talked of him.

Kitty began it. "Do you remember," said she, "the things we used to say about him?"

"Oh don't, Kitty; I do."

"You needn't mind; it was only I who said them."

"Yes, you said them; but I thought them."

Then she told Kitty what had brought him there and the story that he had told her. "And, Kitty,
all the time I knew he lied."

"Probably. You must take it, Lucy, all the same."

"How can I take it, when I know it comes out of his own poor little waistcoat pocket?"

"You would, if you cared enough about him."

"No. It's just because I care that I can't."

"You do care, then?"

"Yes, of course I do."

"But not in the same way as he cares, Lucy."

Kitty's words sounded like a statement rather than a question, so they passed unanswered.

"It's all right, Kitty. It's all over, at last. He doesn't care a bit now, not a bit."

"Oh doesn't he! How can you be so idiotic? All over? I assure you it's only just begun."

Lucia turned her head away.

"Lucy--what are you going to do with him?"

Lucia smiled sadly. That was the question she had asked Horace ten years ago, making him responsible.
And now the responsibility had been laid on her. "Kitty--did you notice how thin he is? He
looks as if he'd just come through some awful illness. But I can't ask him about it."

"Rather not. You don't know whether he's had it, or whether he's going to have it."

"I wonder if you'd mind asking him to stay a week or two? It might help him to get strong."

"I doubt it."

"I don't. I think it's just what he wants. Oh, Kitty, could you--would you, if I wanted it, too?"

"You needn't ask. But what earthly good can it do?"

"If he got strong here it would be so nice to think we sent him away well. And if he's going
to be ill I could look after him--"

Her use of "we" and "I" did not pass unnoticed by the observant Kitty.

"And then?"

Lucia's face, which had been overcast with care, was now radiant. "Then I should have done
something for him besides making him miserable. Will you ask him, Kitty?"

"You're a fool, Lucy, and I'm another. But I'll ask him. To-morrow, though; not to-day."

She waited to see what to-morrow would bring forth, for she was certain it would bring forth
something.

It brought forth glorious weather after the east wind, a warm languid day, half spring, half
summer. Lucia and Kitty seemed bent on putting all idea of business out of their guest's head.
In the morning they drove about the country. In the afternoon they all sat out in the south
square under the windows of the morning-room, while Lucia talked to him about his tragedies.
Kitty still held her invitation in reserve.

At last she left them to themselves. It was Lucia who first returned to the subject of dispute.
She had some sewing in her lap which gave her the advantage of being able to talk in a calm,
detached manner and without looking up. He sat near her, watching with delight the quiet movements
of her hands.

"I've been thinking over what you said yesterday," said she. "I can't do what you want; but
I can suggest a compromise. You seem determined on restitution. Have you forgotten that you
once offered it me in another form?"

"You refused it in that form--then."

"I wouldn't refuse it now. If you could be content with that."

"Do you remember why you refused it?"

She did not answer, but a faint flush told him that she had not forgotten.

"The same objection--the same reason for objecting--holds good now."

"Not quite. I should not be wronging any one else."

"You mean the Beaver, who dotes upon immortal verse?"

She smiled a little sadly. "Yes; there's no Beaver in the question now."

"You shall have the sonnets in any case. I brought them for you in place of the Aurea Legenda,
and the Neapolitan Horace and--"

She lay back in her chair and closed her eyes, as if she could shut out sound with sight. "Please--please.
If you go on talking about it we shall both be very tired. Don't you feel as if you'd like
some tea?" She was bringing out all her feminine reserves to conquer him. But he was not going
to be conquered this time. He could afford to wait; for he also had reserves.

"I'm so sorry," he said humbly. "I won't bore you any more till after tea."

And Lucia knew it was an armistice only and not peace.

At tea-time Kitty perceived that the moment was not yet propitious for her invitation. She
was not even sure that it would ever come. Nor would it; for Rickman knew that his only chance
lay in their imminent parting, in the last hour that must be his.

He was counting on it when the steady, resistless flow of a stream of callers cut short his
calculations. It flowed between him and Lucia. They could only exchange amused or helpless
glances across it now and then. At last he found a moment and approached her.

"I wanted to give you those things before I go."

"Very well. We'll go into the house in one minute."

He waited. She made a sign that said, "Come," and he followed her. She avoided the morning-room
that looked on the courtyard with its throng of callers; hesitated, and opened the door into
the library. He ran upstairs to fetch the manuscript, and joined her there. But for the empty
bookshelves this room, too, was as he had left it.

Lucia was sitting in a window seat. He came to her and gave the poems into her open hands,
and she thanked him.

"Nonsense. It's good of you to take them. But that doesn't release you from your obligations."

She laid the manuscript on the window-seat, protected by her hand. He sat there facing her,
and for a moment neither spoke.

"I haven't very much time," he said at last. "I've got to catch the seven-forty."

"You haven't. We don't want you to go like this. Now you're here you must stay a fortnight
at the very least."

He hung his head. He did not want her to see how immense was the temptation. He murmured some
half-audible, agitated thanks, but his refusal was made quite plain. He could not give up the
advantage he had counted on. "I'm afraid I must bore you again a little now. I've only got
an hour."

"Don't spoil it, then. See how beautiful it is."

She rose and threw open the lattice, and they stood together for a moment looking out. It was
about an hour before sunset, an April sunset, the golden consummation of the wedding of heaven
and earth. He felt a delicate vibration in the air, the last tender resonance of the nuptial
song. This April was not the April of the streets where the great wooing of the world goes
on with violence and clangour; for the city is earth turned to stone and yields herself struggling
and unwilling to the invasion of the sky. Here all the beautiful deep-bosomed land lay still,
breathless in her escape from the wind to the sun. Up the western valley the earth gave all
her greenness naked to the light; but the hills were dim with the divine approaches of her
mystical union, washed by the undivided streams of blue and purple air that flowed to the thin
spiritual verge, where earth is caught up and withdrawn behind heaven's inmost veil.

The hour was beautiful as she had said. Its beauty had clothed itself with immortality in light;
yet there was in it such mortal tenderness as drew his heart after it and melted his will in
longing. He turned from the window and looked at her with all his trouble in his eyes.

Lucia saw that her words had saddened him, and she sat still, devising some comfort for him
in her heart.

"I don't think," he said at last, "you quite know what you are doing. I'm going to tell you
something that I didn't mean to tell you. When I said I'd had nothing to do with all this,
it wasn't altogether true."

"So I supposed," she murmured.

"There was a--a certain amount of trouble and difficulty about it--"

"And what did that mean?"

"It only meant that I had to work rather hard to put it right. I liked it, so you needn't think
anything of that. But if you persist in your refusal all my hard work goes for nothing." He
was so powerless against her tender obstinacy that he had determined to appeal to her tenderness
alone. "There were about three years of it, the best three years out of my life; and you are
going to fling them away and make them useless. All for a little wretched scruple. This is
the only argument that will appeal to you; or I wouldn't have mentioned it."

"The best years out of your life--why were they the best?"

"Because they were the first in which I was free."

She thought of the time nine years ago when she had taken from him three days, the only days
when he was free, and how she had tried to make restitution and had failed. "And whatever else
I refuse," she said, "I've taken them? I can't get out of that?"

"No. If you want to be very cruel you can say I'd no business to lay you under the obligation,
but you can't get out of it."

She looked away. Did she want to be very cruel? Did she want to get out of it? Might it not
rather be happiness to be in it, immersed in it? Lost in it, with all her scruples and all
her pride?

His voice broke and trembled into passion. "And what is it that I'm asking you to take? Something
that isn't mine and is yours; something that it would be dishonourable of me to keep. But if
it was mine, it would be a little thing compared with what I wanted to give you and you wouldn't
have."

Her hands in her distress had fallen to their old unconscious trick of stroking and caressing
the thing they held, the one thing that he had given her, that she had not refused. His eyes
followed her movements. She looked up and saw the jealous hunger in them.

She saw too, through his loose thin suit, that the lines of his body were sharper than ever.
His face was more than ever serious and clean cut; his eyes were more than ever sunk under
the shadow of his brows, darkening their blue. He was refined almost to emaciation. And she
saw other things. As he sat there, with one leg crooked over the other, his wrists stretched
out, his hands clasped, nursing his knee, she noticed that his cuffs, though clean, were frayed;
that his coat was worn in places; that his boots were patched and broken at the sole. He changed
his attitude suddenly when he became aware of her gaze. She did not know why she had not noticed
these details before, nor why she noticed them now. Perhaps she would not have seen them but
for that attempt to hide them which revealed their significance. She said to herself, "He is
poor; and yet he has done this." And the love that had been so long hidden, sheltered and protected
by her pity, came forth, and knew itself as love. And she forgot his greatness and remembered
only those pitiful human things in which he had need of her. So she surrendered.

"I will take everything--on one condition. That you will give me--what you said just now I
wouldn't have." The eyes that she lifted to his were full of tears.

For one moment he did not understand. Very slowly he realized that the thing he had dreamed
and despaired of, that he dared not ask for, was being divinely offered to him as a free gift.
There was no moment, not even in that night of his madness, in this room nine years ago, nor
in that other night in Howland Street, when he had desired it as he desired it now.

Her tears hung curved on the curved lashes of her eyes, and spilt themselves, and fell one
by one on to the pages of the manuscript. He heard them fall.

Before he let himself be carried away by the sweep of her impulse and his own passion he saw
that not honour but common decency forbade him to take advantage of a moment's inspired tenderness.
He had already made a slight appeal ad misericordiam; but that was for her sake not his own.
He realized most completely his impossible position. He had no income, and he had damaged his
health so seriously that it might be long enough before he could make one; and these facts
he could not possibly mention. She suspected him of poverty; but the smallest hint of his real
state would have roused her infallible instinct of divination. He had felt, as her eyes rested
on his emaciated body, that they could see the course of its sufferings, its starvation. He
meant that she should never know what things had happened to him in Howland Street. His chivalry
revolted against the brutality of capturing her tender heart by such a lacerating haul on its
compassion.

All this swept through him between the falling of her ears. Last of all came the thought of
what he was giving up. Was it possible that she cared for him?

It could not be. The illusion lasted only for an instant. Yet while it lasted the insane longing
seized him to take her at her word and risk the consequences. For she would find out afterwards
that she had never loved him; and she would disguise her feeling and he would see through her
disguise. He would know. There could never be any disguise, any illusion between her and him.
But at least he could take her in his arms and hold her now, while her tears fell; she would
be his for this moment that was now.

He searched her face to see if indeed there had been any illusion. Through the tears that veiled
her eyes he could not see whether it were love or pity that still shone in them; but because
of the tears he thought it must be pity.

She went on. "You said I had taken the best years of your life--I would like to give you all
mine, instead, such as it is--if you'll take it."

She said it quietly, so quietly that he thought that she had spoken so only because she did
not love him.

"How can I take it--now, in this way?"

(Her tears stopped falling suddenly.)

"I admit that I made a gross appeal to your pity."

"My pity?"

"Yes, your pity." His words were curt and hard because of the terrible restraint he had to
put upon himself. "I did it because it was the best argument. Otherwise it would have been
abominable of me to have said those things."

"I wasn't thinking of anything you said, only of what you've done."

"I haven't done much. But tell me the truth. Whether would you rather I had done it for your
sake or for mere honour's sake?"

"I would rather you had done it for honour's sake." She said it out bravely, though she knew
that it was the profounder confession of her feeling. He, however, was unable to take it that way.

"I thought so," he said. "Well, that is why I did it."

"I see. I wanted to know the truth; and now I know it."

"You don't know half of it--" His passion leapt to his tongue under the torture, but he held
it down. He paused, knowing that this moment in which he stood was one of those moments which
have the spirit and the power of eternity, and that it was his to save or to destroy it. So
admirable indeed was his control that it had taken their own significance from his words, and
she read into them another meaning. Her face was white with terror because of the thing she
had said; but she still looked at him without flinching. She hardly realized that he was going,
that he was trying to say good-bye.

"I will take the books--if you can keep them for me a little while."

Some perfect instinct told her that this was the only way of atonement for her error. He thanked
her as if they had been speaking of a trifling thing.

She rose, holding the manuscript loosely in her clasped hands, and he half thought that she
was going to give it back to him. He took it from her and threw it on the window-seat, and
held her hands together for an instant in his own. He looked down at them, longing to stoop
and kiss them, but forebore, because of his great love for her, and let them go. He went out
quickly. He had sufficient self-command to find Kitty and thank her and take his leave.

As the door closed on him Lucia heard herself calling him back, with what intention she hardly
knew, unless it were to return his poems. "Keith," she said softly--"Keith." But even to her
own senses it was less a name than a sound that began in a sob and ended in a sigh.

Kitty found her standing in the window-place where he had left her. "Has anything happened?"
she asked.

"I asked him to marry me, Kitty, and he wouldn't. That was all."

"Are you sure you did, dear? From the look of him I should have said it was the other way about."

CHAPTER LXXV

"I don't know what to think of it, Kitty. What do you think?"

"I think you've been playing with fire, dear. With the divine fire. It's the most dangerous
of all, and you've got your little fingers burnt."

"Like Horace. He once said the burnt critic dreads the divine fire. I'm not a critic."

"That you most certainly are not."

"Still I used to understand him; and now I can't. I can't make it out at all."

"There's only one thing," said Kitty, musing till an inspiration came. "You haven't seen him
for more than three years, and you can't tell what may have happened in between. He may have
got entangled with another woman."

Kitty would not have hazarded this conjecture if she had not believed it plausible. But she
dwelt on it with a beneficent intention. No other theory, she opined, would so effectually
turn and rout the invading idea of Keith Rickman.

