His Majesty spent three days at Rheims in order to give his troops time to rest and recuperate
before continuing this arduous campaign.  They were in sore need of this; for even old soldiers
would have had great difficulty in enduring such continued forced marches, which often ended
only in a bloody battle; nevertheless, the greater part of the brave men who obeyed with such
unwearied ardor the Emperor's orders, and who never refused to endure any fatigue or any danger,
were conscripts who had been levied in haste, and fought against the most warlike and best
disciplined troops in Europo.  The greater part had not had even sufficient time to learn the
drill, and took their first lessons in the presence of the enemy, brave young fellows who sacrificed
themselves without a murmur, and to whom the Emperor once only did injustice,--in the circumstance
which I have formerly related, and in which M. Larrey played such a heroic part.  It is a well-known
fact that the wonderful campaign of 1814 was made almost entirely with conscripts newly levied.

During the halt of three days which we made at Rheims, the Emperor saw with intense joy, which
he openly manifested, the arrival of an army corps of six thousand men, whom the brave Dutch
General Janssens brought to his aid.  This re-enforcement of experienced troops could not have
come more opportunely.  While our soldiers were taking breath before recommencing a desperate
struggle, his Majesty was giving himself up to the most varied labors with his accustomed ardor.
In the midst of the cares and dangers of war the Emperor neglected none of the affairs of the
Empire, but worked for several hours each day with the Duke of Bassano, received couriers from
Paris, dictated his replies, and fatigued his secretaries almost as much as his generals and
soldiers.  As for himself, he was indefatiable as of yore.

CHAPTER XXV.

Affairs had reached a point where the great question of triumph or defeat could not long remain
undecided.  According to one of the habitual expressions of the Emperor, the pear was ripe;
but who was to gather it? The Emperor while at Rheims appeared to have no doubt that the result
would be in his favor.  By one of those bold combinations which astonish the world, and change
in a single battle the face of affairs, although the enemy had approached the capital, his
Majesty being unable to prevent it, he nevertheless resolved to attack them in the rear, compel
them to wheel about, and place themselves in opposition to the army which he commanded in person,
and thus save Paris from their invasion.  With the intention of executing this bold combination
the Emperor left Rheims. Meanwhile, being anxious concerning his wife and son, the Emperor,
before attempting this great enterprise, wrote in the greatest secrecy to his brother, Prince
Joseph, lieutenantgeneral of the Empire, to have them conveyed to a place of safety in case
the danger became imminent.  I knew nothing of this order the day it was sent, as the Emperor
kept it a secret from every one; but when I learned afterwards that it was from Rheims that
this command had been addressed to Prince Joseph, I thought that I could without fear of being
mistaken fix the date at March 15th. That evening, in fact, his Majesty had talked to me as
he retired of the Empress and the King of Rome; and as usual, whenever he had during the day
been deeply impressed with any idea, it always recurred to him in the evening; and for that
reason I conclude that this was the day on which his mind had been occupied with putting in
a place of shelter from the dangers of the war the two objects of his most devoted affection.

From Rheims we directed our course to Epernay, the garrison and inhabitants of which had just
repulsed the enemy, who the evening before had attempted to capture it.  There the Emperor
learned of the arrival at Troyes of the Emperor Alexander and the King of Prussia.  His Majesty,
in order to testify to the inhabitants of Epernay his satisfaction with their admirable conduct,
rewarded them in the person of their mayor by giving him the cross of the Legion of Honor.
This was M. Moet, whose reputation has become almost as European as that of Champagne wine.

During this campaign, without being too lavish of the cross of honor, his Majesty presented
it on several occasions to those of the inhabitants who were foremost in resisting the enemy.
Thus, for example, I remember that before leaving Rheims he gave one to a simple farmer of
the village of Selles whose name I have forgotten.  This brave man, on learning that a detachment
of Prussians was approaching his commune, put himself at the head of the National Guard, whom
he encouraged both by word and example; and the result of his enterprise was forty-five prisoners,
among them three officers, whom he brought into the town.

How many deeds similar to this occurred which it is impossible to remember!  However all that
may be, the Emperor on leaving Epernay marched towards Fere-Champenoise, I will not say in
all haste, for that is a term which might be used concerning all his Majesty's movements, who
sprang with the rapidity of an eagle on the point where his presence seemed most necessary.
Nevertheless, the enemy's army, which had crossed the Seine at Pont and Nogent, having learned
of the re-occupation of Rheims by the Emperor, and understanding the movement he wished to
make on their rear, began their retreat on the 17th, and retook successively the bridges which
he had constructed at Pont, Nogent, and Arcis-sur-Aube. On the 18th occurred the battle of
Fere-Champenoise, which his Majesty fought to clear the road intervening between him and Arcis-sur-Aube,
where were the Emperor Alexander and the King of Prussia, who, on learning of this new success
of the Emperor, quickly fell back to Troyes. The pronounced intention of his Majesty was then
to go as far as Bar-sur- Aube.  We had already passed the Aube at Plancy, and the Seine at
Mery, but it was necessary to return to Plancy.  This was on the 19th, the same day on which
the Count d'Artois arrived at Nancy, and on which the rupture of the Congress of Chatillon
occurred, which I mentioned in the preceding chapter, following the order in which my souvenirs
recurred to my mind.

The 20th March was, as I have said, an eventful date in the Emperor's life, and was to become
still more so one year later.  The 20th March, 1814, the King of Rome completed his third year,
while the Emperor was exposing himself, if it were possible, even more than was his usual custom.
At the battle of Arcis-sur-Aube, which took place on that day, his Majesty saw that at last
he would have new enemies to encounter.  The Austrians themselves entered the line of battle;
and an immense army, under the command of the Prince von Schwarzenberg, spread itself out before
him, when he supposed he had only an advance guard to resist.  The coincidence may not perhaps
appear unimportant that the Austrian army did not begin to fight seriously or attack the Emperor
in person until the day after the rupture of the Congress of Chatillon.  Was this the result
of chance, or did the Emperor of Austria indeed prefer to remain in the second line, and spare
the person of his son-in-law, so long as peace appeared possible to him?  This is a question
which it is not my province to answer.

The battle of Arcis-sur-Aube was terrible, and ended only with the close of day.  The Emperor
still occupied the city in spite of the combined efforts of an army of one hundred and thirty
thousand fresh troops, who attacked thirty thousand worn out by fatigue.  The battle still
continued during the night, while the fire of the faubourgs lighted our defenses and the works
of the besieging-party.  It was at last found impossible to hold our position longer, and only
one bridge remained by which the army could effect its retreat.  The Emperor had another constructed;
and the retreat commenced, but in good order, in spite of the numerous masses which closely
threatened us.  This unfortunate affair was the most disastrous his Majesty had experienced
during the whole campaign, since the roads leading to the capital had been left uncovered;
and the prodigies of his genius and valor were unavailing against such overwhelming numbers.
An instance which furnishes an excellent proof of the presence of mind which the Emperor preserved
in the most critical positions was, that before evacuating Arcis he committed to the Sisters
of Charity a sum sufficient for the first needs of the wounded.

On the evening of the 21st we arrived at Sommepuis, where the Emperor passed the night.  There
I heard him for the first time pronounce the name of the Bourbons.  His Majesty was extremely
agitated, and spoke in such broken tones that I understood only these words, which he repeated
many times: "Recall them myself--recall the Bourbons!  What would the enemy say?  No, no? 
it is impossible!  Never!"  These words which escaped the Emperor in one of those attacks of
preoccupation to which he was subject whenever his soul was deeply moved astonished me inexpressibly;
for the idea had never once entered my mind that there could be any other government in France
than that of his Majesty. Besides, it may be easily understood that in the position I then
occupied I had scarcely heard the Bourbons mentioned, except to the Empress Josephine in the
early days of the Consulate, while I was still in her service.

The various divisions of the French army and the masses of the enemy were then so closely pressed
against each other, that the enemy occupied each point the moment we were compelled to abandon
it; thus, on the 22d the allies seized Epernay, and, in order to punish this faithful town
for the heroic defense it had previously made, orders were given that it should be pillaged.
Pillage?  The Emperor called it the crime of war; and I heard him often express in most vehement
terms the horror with which it inspired him, which was so extreme that at no time did he authorize
it during his long series of triumphs.  Pillage!  And yet every proclamation of our devastators
declared boldly that they made war only on the Emperor; they had the audacity to repeat this
statement, and some were foolish enough to believe them.  On this point I saw too plainly what
actually occurred to have ever believed in the ideal magnanimity which has since been so much
vaunted.

On the 23d we were at Saint-Dizier, where the Emperor returned to his first plan of attacking
the enemy's rear.  The next day, just as his Majesty mounted his horse to go to Doulevent,
a general officer of the Austrians was brought to him, whose arrival caused a great sensation
at headquarters, as it delayed the Emperor's departure for a few moments. I soon learned that
it was Baron de Weissemberg, ambassador from Austria to London, who was returning from England.
The Emperor ordered that he should follow him to Doulevent, where his Majesty gave him a verbal
message to the Emperor of Austria, while Colonel Galbois was charged with a letter which the
Emperor had the Duke of Vicenza write.  But after a movement by the French army towards Chaumont,
by the road of Langres, the Emperor of Austria, finding himself separated from the Emperor
Alexander, was forced to fall back as far as Dijon.  I remember that on his arrival at Doulevent
his Majesty received secret information from his faithful director-general of the post, M.
de Lavalette.  This information, the purport of which I did not know, appeared to produce the
deepest impression on the Emperor; but he soon resumed before the eyes of those around his
accustomed serenity, though for some time past I had seen that this was only assumed.  I have
learned since that M. de Lavalette informed the Emperor that there was not a moment to lose
if he would save the capital.  Such an opinion from such a man could only be an expression
of the real truth, and it was this conviction which contributed to increase the Emperor's anxiety.
Until then the news from Paris had been favorable; and much had been said of the zeal and devotion
of the National Guard, which nothing could dismay.  At the various theaters patriotic pieces
had been played, and notably the 'Oriflamme' at the Opera, a very trivial circumstance apparently,
but which nevertheless acted very powerfully on the minds of enthusiasts, and for this reason
was not to be disdained.  Indeed, the small amount of news that we had received represented
Paris as entirely devoted to his Majesty, and ready to defend itself against any attacks. 
And in fact, this news was not untrue; and the handsome conduct of the National Guard under
the orders, of Marshal Moncey, the enthusiasm of the different schools, and the bravery of
the pupils of the polytechnic schools, soon furnished proof of this.  But events were stronger
than men.  Meanwhile, time passed on, and we were approaching the fatal conclusion; each day,
each moment, saw those immense masses collecting from the extremities of Europe, inclosing
Paris, and pressing it with a thousand arms, and during these last days it might well be said
that the battle raged incessantly.  On the 26th the Emperor, led by the noise of a fierce cannonade,
again repaired to Saint- Dizier, where his rear-guard was attacked by very superior forces,
and compelled to evacuate the town; but General Milhaud and General Sebastiani repulsed the
enemy on the Marne at the ford of Valcourt; the presence of the Emperor produced its accustomed
effect, and we re-entered Saint-Dizier, while the enemy fled in the greatest disorder over
the road to Vitry-le-Francais and that of Bar-sur-Ornain.  The Emperor moved towards the latter
town, thinking that he now had the Prince of Schwarzenberg in his power; but just as he arrived
there learned that it was not the Austrian general-in-chief whom he had fought, but only one
of his lieutenants, Count Witzingerode.  Schwarzenberg had deceived him; on the 23d he had
made a junction with General Blucher, and these two generals at the head of the coalition had
rushed with their masses of soldiers upon the capital.

However disastrous might be the news brought to headquarters, the Emperor wished to verify
its truth in person, and on his return from Saint-Dizier made a detour to Vitry, in order to
assure himself of the march of the allies on Paris; and all his doubts were dissipated by what
he saw. Could Paris hold out long enough for him to crush the enemy against its walls?  Thereafter
this was his sole and engrossing thought.  He immediately placed himself at the head of his
army, and we marched on Paris by the road to Troyes.  At Doulencourt he received a courier
from King Joseph, who announced to him the march of the allies on Paris.  That very moment
he sent General Dejean in haste to his brother to inform him of his speedy arrival.  If he
could defend himself for two days, only two days, the allied armies would enter Paris, only
to find there a tomb. In what a state of anxiety the Emperor then was!  He set out with his
headquarters squadrons.  I accompanied him, and left him for the first time at Troyes, on the
morning of the 30th, as will be seen in the following chapter.

CHAPTER XXVI.

