Even as I write, however, I find in a leading review the following definition of liberty: Civil
liberty is "the result of the restraint exercised by the sovereign people on the more powerful
individuals and classes of the community, preventing them from availing themselves of the excess
of their power to the detriment of the other classes." This definition lays the foundation
for the result which it is apparently desired to reach, that "a government by the people can
in no case become a paternal government, since its law-makers are its mandatories and servants
carrying out its will, and not its fathers or its masters." Here we have the most mischievous
fallacy under the general topic which I am discussing distinctly formulated. In the definition
of liberty it will be noticed that liberty is construed as the act of the sovereign people
against somebody who must, of course, be differentiated from the sovereign people. Whenever
"people" is used in this sense for anything less than the total population, man, woman, child,
and baby, and whenever the great dogmas which contain the word "people" are construed under
the limited definition of "people," there is always fallacy.

History is only a tiresome repetition of one story. Persons and classes have sought to win
possession of the power of the State in order to live luxuriously out of the earnings of others.
Autocracies, aristocracies, theocracies, and all other organizations for holding political
power, have exhibited only the same line of action. It is the extreme of political error to
say that if political power is only taken away from generals, nobles, priests, millionaires,
and scholars, and given to artisans and peasants, these latter may be trusted to do only right
and justice, and never to abuse the power; that they will repress all excess in others, and
commit none themselves. They will commit abuse, if they can and dare, just as others have done.
The reason for the excesses of the old governing classes lies in the vices and passions of
human nature--cupidity, lust, vindictiveness, ambition, and vanity. These vices are confined
to no nation, class, or age. They appear in the church, the academy, the workshop, and the
hovel, as well as in the army or the palace. They have appeared in autocracies, aristocracies,
theocracies, democracies, and ochlocracies, all alike. The only thing which has ever restrained
these vices of human nature in those who had political power is law sustained by impersonal
institutions. If political power be given to the masses who have not hitherto had it, nothing
will stop them from abusing it but laws and institutions. To say that a popular government
cannot be paternal is to give it a charter that it can do no wrong. The trouble is that a democratic
government is in greater danger than any other of becoming paternal, for it is sure of itself,
and ready to undertake anything, and its power is excessive and pitiless against dissentients.

What history shows is, that rights are safe only when guaranteed against all arbitrary power,
and all class and personal interest. Around an autocrat there has grown up an oligarchy of
priests and soldiers. In time a class of nobles has been developed, who have broken into the
oligarchy and made an aristocracy. Later the demos, rising into an independent development,
has assumed power and made a democracy. Then the mob of a capital city has overwhelmed the
democracy in an ochlocracy. Then the "idol of the people," or the military "savior of society,"
or both in one, has made himself autocrat, and the same old vicious round has recommenced.
Where in all this is liberty? There has been no liberty at all, save where a state has known
how to break out, once for all, from this delusive round; to set barriers to selfishness, cupidity,
envy, and lust, in all classes, from highest to lowest, by laws and institutions; and to create
great organs of civil life which can eliminate, as far as possible, arbitrary and personal
elements from the adjustment of interests and the definition of rights. Liberty is an affair
of laws and institutions which bring rights and duties into equilibrium. It is not at all an
affair of selecting the proper class to rule.

The notion of a free state is entirely modern. It has been developed with the development of
the middle class, and with the growth of a commercial and industrial civilization. Horror at
human slavery is not a century old as a common sentiment in a civilized state. The idea of
the "free man," as we understand it, is the product of a revolt against mediaeval and feudal
ideas; and our notion of equality, when it is true and practical, can be explained only by
that revolt. It was in England that the modern idea found birth. It has been strengthened by
the industrial and commercial development of that country. It has been inherited by all the
English-speaking nations, who have made liberty real because they have inherited it, not as
a notion, but as a body of institutions. It has been borrowed and imitated by the military
and police state of the European continent so fast as they have felt the influence of the expanding
industrial civilization; but they have realized it only imperfectly, because they have no body
of local institutions or traditions, and it remains for them as yet too much a matter of "declarations"
and pronunciamentos.

The notion of civil liberty which we have inherited is that of a status created for the individual
by laws and institutions, the effect of which is that each man is guaranteed the use of all
his own powers exclusively for his own welfare. It is not at all a matter of elections, or
universal suffrage, or democracy. All institutions are to be tested by the degree to which
they guarantee liberty. It is not to be admitted for a moment that liberty is a means to social
ends, and that it may be impaired for major considerations. Any one who so argues has lost
the bearing and relation of all the facts and factors in a free state. A human being has a
life to live, a career to run. He is a centre of powers to work, and of capacities to suffer.
What his powers may be--whether they can carry him far or not; what his chances may be, whether
wide or restricted; what his fortune may be, whether to suffer much or little--are questions
of his personal destiny which he must work out and endure as he can; but for all that concerns
the bearing of the society and its institutions upon that man, and upon the sum of happiness
to which he can attain during his life on earth, the product of all history and all philosophy
up to this time is summed up in the doctrine, that he should be left free to do the most for
himself that he can, and should be guaranteed the exclusive enjoyment of all that he does.
If the society--that is to say, in plain terms, if his fellow-men, either individually, by
groups, or in a mass--impinge upon him otherwise than to surround him with neutral conditions
of security, they must do so under the strictest responsibility to justify themselves. Jealousy
and prejudice against all such interferences are high political virtues in a free man. It is
not at all the function of the State to make men happy. They must make themselves happy in
their own way, and at their own risk. The functions of the State lie entirely in the conditions
or chances under which the pursuit of happiness is carried on, so far as those conditions or
chances can be affected by civil organization. Hence, liberty for labor and security for earnings
are the ends for which civil institutions exist, not means which may be employed for ulterior ends.

Now, the cardinal doctrine of any sound political system is, that rights and duties should
be in equilibrium. A monarchical or aristocratic system is not immoral, if the rights and duties
of persons and classes are in equilibrium, although the rights and duties of different persons
and classes are unequal. An immoral political system is created whenever there are privileged
classes--that is, classes who have arrogated to themselves rights while throwing the duties
upon others. In a democracy all have equal political rights. That is the fundamental political
principle. A democracy, then, becomes immoral, if all have not equal political duties. This
is unquestionably the doctrine which needs to be reiterated and inculcated beyond all others,
if the democracy is to be made sound and permanent. Our orators and writers never speak of
it, and do not seem often to know anything about it; but the real danger of democracy is, that
the classes which have the power under it will assume all the rights and reject all the duties--that
is, that they will use the political power to plunder those-who-have. Democracy, in order to
be true to itself, and to develop into a sound working system, must oppose the same cold resistance
to any claims for favor on the ground of poverty, as on the ground of birth and rank. It can
no more admit to public discussion, as within the range of possible action, any schemes for
coddling and helping wage-receivers than it could entertain schemes for restricting political
power to wage-payers. It must put down schemes for making "the rich" pay for whatever "the
poor" want, just as it tramples on the old theories that only the rich are fit to regulate
society. One needs but to watch our periodical literature to see the danger that democracy
will be construed as a system of favoring a new privileged class of the many and the poor.

