If they are anxious to know truth, they will understand this book and determine to act with
us for the redemption of nations from the monarchial Powers. In this case they are requested
to write to me under the directions which are given in the proper place of this book, and assure
me in their writing, that they accept the proposition, and are determined to co-operate with
us for the introduction of the promised New Era of Harmony and Peace, in which Publishers and
Editors will have nobler occupations than they have at present in the servitude laboring hard
for the support of the Beast and its ten Horns. This was to be mentioned in this connection
in regard to Hon. Horace Greeley and the New-York Tribune. But the parties of the so-called
Republicans and Abolitionists will receive in an other treatise of this book extraordinary
lessons, that they might at length commence to co-operate with us for the introduction of the
Millennial glory. Many of them have abused and misrepresented me in my mission. Therefore I
do not marvel that they have abused and misrepresented also President Buchanan not only during
the campaign, but also during his administration. We have made urgent appeals to him, to make
use of our message against the enemies of this Republic; but he has neglected to do so, or
perhaps my documents did not reach himself, or the neglect must be attributed rather to his
enemies than to him. They would not hear me, and probably they would not have heard him. Matters
have to come so far as they are made manifest in this book. After the Crusade of professed
Monarchists in Europe became as manifest, as there is the Crusade of Abolitionists and false
Republicans against him manifest in America, we expect that President Buchanan will comprehend
at length our mission, and endeavor to arrive upon our ground to become the great Apostle of
the New Era. If he comprehends this book and makes use of our weapons of the spirit, he will
be a partaker of the great promise, and he will convert millions of his enemies of all parties
and sects into his true friends, and those who will not be converted, will be destroyed. Moses
and other Prophets of the Old Testament, Christ and his Apostles and Prophets through the course
of centuries of the Christian Era as well as of this time, have testified our mission, and
signs are continuously repeated, announcing the final victory of the cause entrusted to our
mission, as those who will study this book thoroughly, will be convinced of this unexpected
assertion. But here for the close of this treatise we remark for the peculiar use to President
Buchanan and others who are invited to become our fellow laborers in the true Republican or
true Christian against the Monarchial or Antichristian cause, that in the second and third
chapters of the REVELATION the seven churches are typical symbols of the seven states of the
church, and that to one or the other of these states each church of the christian name can
be reduced, from the time the Revelation has been published, to the time in which Christ comes
or is made manifest by our mission, in which that is performed and disclosed, which is needed
for his peaceable reign on earth.

