Attraction' and 'repulsion' seem to be the sources of
    will--that momentous element of the soul which determines the
    character of the individual" (p. 45).

    "The positive ponderable matter, the element with the feeling of
    like or desire, is continually striving to complete the process of
    condensation, and thus collecting an enormous amount of potential
    energy; the negative imponderable matter, on the other hand, offers
    a perpetual and equal resistance to the further increase of its
    strain and of the feeling of dislike connected therewith, and thus
    gathers the utmost amount of actual energy.

    "I think that this pyknotic theory of substance will prove more
    acceptable to every biologist who is convinced of the unity of
    nature than the kinetic theory which prevails in physics to-day"
    (p. 78).

In other words, he appeals to a presumed sentiment of biologists against the knowledge of the
physicist in his own sphere--a strange attitude for a man of science. After this it is less
surprising to find him ignoring the elementary axiom that "action and reaction are equal and
opposite," i.e. that internal forces can have no motive power on a body as a whole, and making
the grotesque assertion that matter is moved, not by external forces, but by internal likes
and desires:--

    "I must lay down the following theses, which are involved in Vogt's
    pyknotic theory, as indispensable for a truly monistic view of
    substance, and one that covers the whole field of organic and
    inorganic nature:--

    "1. (p. 78).

My desire is to criticise politely, and hence I refrain from characterising this sentence as
a physicist should.

    "Every shade of inclination, from complete indifference to the
    fiercest passion, is exemplified in the chemical relation of the
    various elements towards each other" (p. 79). (p. 80).

    "I gave the outlines of cellular psychology in 1866 in my paper
    on 'Cell-souls and Soul-cells'" (p. 63).

Thus, then, in order to explain life and mind and consciousness by means of matter, all that
is done is to assume that matter possesses these unexplained attributes.

What the full meaning of that may be, and whether there be any philosophic justification for
any such idea, is a matter on which I will not now express an opinion; but, at any rate, as
it stands, it is not science, and its formulation gives no sort of conception of what life
and will and consciousness really are.

Even if it were true, it contains nothing whatever in the nature of explanation: it recognises
the inexplicable, and relegates it to the atoms, where it seems to hope that further quest
may cease. Instead of tackling the difficulty where it actually occurs; instead of associating
life, will, and consciousness with the organisms in which they are actually in experience found,
these ideas are foisted into the atoms of matter; and then the properties which have been conferred
on the atoms are denied in all essential reality to the fully developed organisms which those
atoms help to compose!

I show later on (Chapters V. and X.) that there is no necessary justification for assuming
that a phenomenon exhibited by an aggregate of particles must be possessed by the ingredients
of which it is composed; on the contrary, wholly new properties may make their appearance simply
by aggregation; though I admit that such a proposition is by no means obvious, and that it
may be a legitimate subject for controversy. But into that question our author does not enter;
and even when he has conferred on the atoms these astounding properties, he abstains from what
would seem a natural development: for his doctrine is that our power is actually less than
that of the atoms,--that instead of utilising the attractions and repulsions, or "likes and
dislikes," of our constituent particles, and directing them by the aggregate of conscious will-power
to some preconceived end, we ourselves, on the contrary, are dominated and controlled by them;
so that freedom of the will is an illusion.

Freedom being thus disposed of, Immortality presents no difficulty; a soul is the operation
of a group of cells, and so the existence of man clearly begins and ends with that of his terrestrial
body:--

    "The most important moment in the life of every man, as in that of
    all other complex animals, is the moment in which he begins his
    individual existence [coalescence of sperm cell and ovum] ... the
    existence of the personality, the independent individual,
    commences. This ontogenetic fact is supremely important, for the
    most far-reaching conclusions may be drawn from it. In the first
    place, we have a clear perception that man, like all the other
    complex animals, inherits all his personal characteristics, bodily
    and mental, from his parents; and further, we come to the momentous
    conclusion that the new personality which arises thus can lay no
    claim to 'immortality'" (p. 22).

Others beside Haeckel have held this kind of view at one time or another; but, unlike him,
most of them have recanted and seen the error of their ways. He is, indeed, aware that several
of his great German contemporaries have been through this phase of thought and come out on
the other side, notably the physiologist-philosopher Wundt, and he refers to them fairly and
instructively thus:--

    "What seems to me of special importance and value in Wundt's work
    is that he 'extends the law of the persistence of force for the
    first time to the psychic world.'

    "Thirty years afterwards, in a second edition, Wundt emancipated
    himself from the fundamental errors of the first, and says that he
    'learned many years ago to consider the work a sin of his youth';
    it 'weighed on him as a kind of crime, from which he longed to free
    himself as soon as possible.' In the first, psychology is treated
    as a physical science, on the same laws as the whole of
    physiology, of which it is only a part; thirty years afterwards he
    finds psychology to be a spiritual science, with principles and
    objects entirely different from those of physical science.

    "I myself," says Haeckel, "naturally consider the 'youthful sin' of
    the young physiologist Wundt to be a correct knowledge of nature,
    and energetically defend it against the antagonistic view of the
    old philosopher Wundt. This entire change of philosophical
    principles, which we find in Wundt, as we found it in Kant,
    Virchow, du Bois-Reymond, Carl Ernst Baer, and others, is very
    interesting" (p. 36).

So it is: very interesting!

Professor Haeckel is so imbued with biological science that he loses his sense of proportion;
and his enthusiasm for the work of Darwin leads him to attribute to it an exaggerated scope,
and enables him to eliminate the third of the Kantian trilogy:--

    "Darwin's theory of the natural origin of species at once gave us
    the solution of the mystic 'problem of creation,' the great
    'question of all questions'--the problem of the true character and
    origin of man himself" (p. 28) [cf. p. 19 above].

It is a great deal more than that patient observer and deep thinker Charles Darwin ever claimed,
nor have his wiser disciples claimed it for him. It is familiar that he explained how variations
once arisen would be clinched, if favourable in the struggle, by the action of heredity and
survival; but the source or origin of the variations themselves he did not explain.

Do they arise by guidance or by chance? Is natural selection akin to the verified and practical
processes of artificial selection? or is it wholly alien to them and influenced by chance alone?
The latter view can hardly be considered a complete explanation, though it is verbally the
one adopted by Professor Haeckel, and it is of interest to see what he means by chance:--

    "Since impartial study of the evolution of the world teaches us
    that there is no definite aim and no special purpose to be traced
    in it, there seems to be no alternative but to leave everything to
    'blind chance.'

    "One group of philosophers affirms, in accordance with its
    teleological conception, that the whole cosmos is an orderly
    system, in which every phenomenon has its aim and purpose; there is
    no such thing as chance. The other group, holding a mechanical
    theory, expresses itself thus: The development of the universe is a
    monistic mechanical process, in which we discover no aim or purpose
    whatever; what we call design in the organic world is a special
    result of biological agencies; neither in the evolution of the
    heavenly bodies nor in that of the crust of our earth do we find
    any trace of a controlling purpose--all is the result of chance.
    Each party is right--according to its definition of chance. The
    general law of causality, taken in conjunction with the law of
    substance, teaches us that every phenomenon has a mechanical cause;
    in this sense there is no such thing as chance. Yet it is not only
    lawful, but necessary, to retain the term for the purpose of
    expressing the simultaneous occurrence of two phenomena, which are
    not causally related to each other, but of which each has its own
    mechanical cause, independent of that of the other.

    "Everybody knows that chance, in this monistic sense, plays an
    important part in the life of man and in the universe at large.
    That, however, does not prevent us from recognising in each
    'chance' event, as we do in the evolution of the entire cosmos, the
    universal sovereignty of nature's supreme law, the law of
    substance" (p. 97).

Illegitimate Negations.

With regard to the possibility of Revelation, or information derived from super-human sources,
naturally he ridicules the idea; but in connection with the mode of origin and development
of life on this planet he makes the following sensible and noteworthy admission:--

    "It is very probable that these processes have gone on likewise on
    other planets, and that other planets have produced other types of
    the higher plants and animals, which are unknown on our earth;
    perhaps from some higher animal stem, which is superior to the
    vertebrate in formation, higher beings have arisen who far
    transcend us earthly men in intelligence."

Exactly; it is quite probable. It is, in fact, improbable that man is the highest type of existence.
But if Professor Haeckel is ready to grant that probability or even possibility, why does he
so strenuously exclude the idea of revelation, i.e., the acquiring of imparted information
from higher sources? Savages can certainly have "revelation" from civilised men. Why, then,
should it be inconceivable that human beings should receive information from beings in the
universe higher than themselves? It may or may not be the case that they do; but there is no
scientific ground for dogmatism on the subject, nor any reason for asserting the inconceivability
of such a thing.

Professor Haeckel would no doubt reply to some of the above criticism that he is not only a
man of science, but also a philosopher, that he is looking ahead, beyond ascertained fact,
and that it is his philosophic views which are in question rather than his scientific statements.
To some extent it is both, as has been seen; but if even the above be widely known--if it be
generally understood that the most controversial portions of his work are mainly speculative
and hypothetical, it can be left to its proper purpose of doing good rather than harm. It can
only do harm by misleading, it can do considerable good by criticising and stimulating and
informing; and it is an interesting fact that a man so well acquainted with biology as Professor
Haeckel is should have been so strongly impressed with the truth of some aspect of the philosophic
system known as Monism. Many men of science have likewise been impressed with the probability,
or possibility, of some such ultimate unification.

The problem to be solved--and an old-world problem indeed it is--is the range, and especially
the nature, of the connection between mind and matter; or, let us say, between the material
universe on the one hand, and the vital, the mental, the conscious and spiritual universe or
universes, on the other.

It would be extremely surprising if any attempt yet made had already been thoroughly successful,
though the attack on the idealistic side appears to many of us physicists to be by far the
most hopeful line of advance. An excessively wide knowledge of existence would seem to be demanded
for the success of any such most ambitious attempt; but, though none of us may hope to achieve
it, many may strive to make some contribution towards the great end; and those who think they
have such a contribution to make, or such a revelation entrusted to them, are bound to express
it to the best of their ability, and leave it to their contemporaries and successors to assimilate
such portions of it as are true, and to develop it further. From this point of view Professor
Haeckel is no doubt amply justified in his writings; but, unfortunately, it appears to me that
although he has been borne forward on the advancing wave of monistic philosophy, he has, in
its specification, attempted such precision of materialistic detail, and subjected it to so
narrow and limited a view of the totality of experience, that the progress of thought has left
him, as well as his great English exemplar, Herbert Spencer, somewhat high and dry, belated
and stranded by the tide of opinion which has now begun to flow in another direction. He is,
as it were, a surviving voice from the middle of the nineteenth century; he represents, in
clear and eloquent fashion, opinions which then were prevalent among many leaders of thought--opinions
which they themselves in many cases, and their successors still more, lived to outgrow; so
that by this time Professor Haeckel's voice is as the voice of one crying in the wilderness,
not as the pioneer or vanguard of an advancing army, but as the despairing shout of a standard-bearer,
still bold and unflinching, but abandoned by the retreating ranks of his comrades as they march
to new orders in a fresh and more idealistic direction.

CHAPTER IV

MEMORANDA FOR WOULD-BE MATERIALISTS

The objection which it has been found necessary to express concerning Materialism as a complete
system is based not on its assertions, but on its negations. In so far as it makes positive
assertions, embodying the results of scientific discovery and even of scientific speculation
based thereupon, there is no fault to find with it; but when, on the strength of that, it sets
up to be a philosophy of the universe--all inclusive, therefore, and shutting out a number
of truths otherwise perceived, or which appeal to other faculties, or which are equally true
and are not really contradictory of legitimately materialistic statements--then it is that
its insufficiency and narrowness have to be displayed.

It will be probably instructive, and it may be sufficient, if I show that two great leaders
in scientific thought (one the greatest of all men of science who have yet lived), though well
aware of much that could be said positively on the materialistic side, and very willing to
admit or even to extend the province of science or exact knowledge to the uttermost, yet were
very far from being philosophic Materialists or from imagining that other modes of regarding
the universe were thereby excluded.

Great leaders of thought, in fact, are not accustomed to take a narrow view of existence, or
to suppose that one mode of regarding it, or one set of formulæ expressing it, can possibly
be sufficient and complete. Even a sheet of paper has two sides: a terrestrial globe presents
different aspects from different points of view; a crystal has a variety of facets; and the
totality of existence is not likely to be more simple than any of these--is not likely to be
readily expressible in any form of words, or to be thoroughly conceivable by any human mind.

It may be well to remember that Sir Isaac Newton was a Theist of the most pronounced and thorough
conviction, although he had a great deal to do with the reduction of the major Cosmos to mechanics,
i.e. with its explanation by the elaborated machinery of simple forces; and he conceived it
possible that, in the progress of science, this process of reduction to mechanics would continue
till it embraced nearly all phenomena. (See extract below.) That, indeed, has been the effort
of science ever since, and therein lies the legitimate basis for materialistic statements,
though not for a materialistic philosophy.

Here is a full-blown anticipation of an intelligible exposition of the Universe in terms of
matter and force: the substantial basis of what smaller men call materialism and develop into
what they consider to be a materialistic philosophy. But there is no necessity for anything
of the kind; a systematic expression of facts in terms of one of their aspects does not exclude
expression in terms of other and totally different aspects also. Denial of all sides but one,
is a poor kind of unification. Denial of this sort is the weakness and delusion of the people
who call themselves 'Christian Scientists': they have hold of one side of truth--and that should
be granted them,--but they hold it in so narrow and insecure a fashion that, in self-defence,
they think it safest strenuously to deny the existence of all other sides. In this futile enterprise
they are imitating the attitude of the philosophic Materialists, on the other side of the controversy.

And then, again, Professor Huxley himself, who is commonly spoken of by half-informed people
as if he were a philosophic materialist, was really nothing of the kind; for although, like
Newton, fully imbued with the mechanical doctrine, and, of course, far better informed concerning
the biological departments of Nature and the discoveries which have in the last century been
made, and though he rightly regarded it as his mission to make the scientific point of view
clear to his benighted contemporaries, and was full of enthusiasm for the facts on which materialists
take their stand, he saw clearly that these alone were insufficient for a philosophy. The following
extracts from the 'Hume' volume will show, first, that he entirely repudiated materialism as
a satisfactory or complete scheme of things; and, secondly, that he profoundly disagreed with
the position which now appears to be occupied by Professor Haeckel. (p. 282).

And on p. 286 he speaks concerning "substance"--that substance which constitutes the foundation
of Haeckel's philosophy--almost as if he were purposely confuting that rather fly-blown production:--

    "Thus, if any man think he has reason to believe that the
    'substance' of matter, to the existence of which no limit can be
    set either in time or space, is the infinite and eternal substratum
    of all actual and possible existences, which is the doctrine of
    philosophical materialism, as I understand it, I have no objection
    to his holding that doctrine; and I fail to comprehend how it can
    have the slightest influence upon any ethical or religious views he
    may please to hold....

    "Moreover, the ultimate forms of existence which we distinguish in
    our little speck of the universe are, possibly, only two out of
    infinite varieties of existence, not only analogous to matter and
    analogous to mind, but of kinds which we are not competent so much
    as to conceive--in the midst of which, indeed, we might be set
    down, with no more notion of what was about us, than the worm in a
    flower-pot, on a London balcony, has of the life of the great city.

    "That which I do very strongly object to is the habit, which a
    great many non-philosophical materialists unfortunately fall into,
    of forgetting all these very obvious considerations. They talk as
    if the proof that the 'substance of matter' was the 'substance' of
    all things cleared up all the mysteries of existence. In point of
    fact, it leaves them exactly where they were.... Your religious and
    ethical difficulties are just as great as mine. The speculative
    game is drawn--let us get to practical work" (p. 286).

And again on pp. 251 and 279:--

    "It is worth any amount of trouble to ... know by one's own
    knowledge the great truth ... that the honest and rigorous
    following up of the argument which leads us to 'materialism'
    inevitably carries us beyond it" (p. 251).
    (p. 279).

Let the jubilant but uninstructed and comparatively ignorant amateur materialist therefore
beware, and bethink himself twice or even thrice before he conceives that he understands the
universe and is competent to pour scorn upon the intuitions and perceptions of great men in
what may be to him alien regions of thought and experience.

Let him explain, if he can, what he means by his own identity, or the identity of any thinking
or living being, which at different times consists of a totally different set of material particles.
Something there clearly is which confers personal identity and constitutes an individual: it
is a property characteristic of every form of life, even the humblest; but it is not yet explained
or understood, and it is no answer to assert gratuitously that there is some fundamental "substance"
or material basis on which that identity depends, any more than it is an explanation to say
that it depends upon a "soul." These are all forms of words. (p. 194). (p. viii.).

The harvesting of truth is a safe enough enterprise, but the devouring of error is a more dangerous
pastime, since flames are liable to spread beyond our control; and though, in a world overgrown
with weeds and refuse, the cleansing influence of fire is a necessity, it would be cruel to
apply the same agency again at a later stage, when a fresh young crop is springing up in the
cleared ground.

CHAPTER V

RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY

The aphorism sometimes encountered, that "whatever properties appertain to a whole must essentially
belong to the parts of which it is composed," is a fallacy. A property can be possessed by
an aggregation of atoms which no atom possesses in the slightest degree. Those who think otherwise
are unacquainted with mathematical laws other than simple proportion or some continuous or
additive functions; they are not aware of discontinuities; they are not experienced in critical
values, above which certain conditions obtain, while below them there is suddenly nothing.
To refute them an instance must suffice:--

A meteoric stone may seem to differ from a planet only in size, but the difference in size
involves also many other differences, notably the fact that the larger body can attract and
hold to itself an atmosphere--a circumstance of the utmost importance to the existence of life
on its surface. In order, however, that a planet may by gravitative attraction control the
roving atoms of gas, and confine their excursions to within a certain range of itself, it must
have a very considerable mass.

The earth is big enough to do it; the moon is not. By simply piling atoms or stones together
into a mighty mass there comes a critical point at which an atmosphere becomes possible; and
directly an atmosphere exists, all manner of phenomena may spring into existence, which without
it were quite impossible.

So, also, it may be said that a sun differs from a dark planet only in size; for it is just
the fact of great size which enables its gravitative-shrinkage and earthquake-subsidence to
generate an immense quantity of heat and to maintain the mass for æons at an excessively high
temperature, thereby fitting it to become the centre of light and life to a number of worlds.
The blaze of the sun is a property which is the outcome of its great mass. A small permanent
sun is an impossibility.

If, however, we reverse the aphorism and say that whatever is in a part must be in the whole,
we are on much safer ground. I do not say that it cannot be pressed into illegitimate extremes,
but in one and that the simplest sense it is little better than a platitude.

There is a tendency to call the argument or statement that whatever faculty man possesses the
Deity must have also; by the name Anthropomorphism; but it seems to me a misnomer, and to convey
quite wrong ideas. The argument represented by "He that formed the eye, shall he not see? he
that planted the ear, shall he not hear?" need not assume for a moment that God has sense organs
akin to those of man, or that He appreciates ethereal and aerial vibrations in the same sort
of way. It is not an assertion of similarity between God and man, but merely a realisation
that what belongs to a part must be contained in the whole. It is not even necessarily pantheistic:
it would hold equally well on a Theistic interpretation. Regarded pantheistically it is obvious
and requires no stating: regarded Theistically, it is a perception that faculties and powers
which have come into existence, and are actually at work in the universe, cannot have arisen
without the knowledge and sympathy and full understanding of the Sustainer and Comprehender
of it all. Nor can functions be expected in the creature which transcend the power of the Creator.

All our faculties, sensations, and emotions must therefore be understood, and in a sense possessed,
in some transcendental and to us unimaginable form, by the Deity.

I know that it is possible to deny His existence, just as it is possible to deny the existence
of an external world or to maintain that reality is limited to our sensations. If the Deity
has a sense of humour, as undoubtedly He has, He must be amused at the remarkable philosophising
faculty recently developed by the creature which on this planet has become most vigorously
selfconscious and is in the early stages of progress towards higher things--a philosophising
faculty so acute as to lead him to mistrust and throw away information conveyed to him by the
very instruments which have enabled him to become what he is; so that having become keenly
alive to the truth that all we are directly aware of is the fruit of our own sensations and
consciousness, he proceeds to the grotesque supposition that these sensations and consciousness
may be all that really exists, and that the information which for ages our senses have conveyed
to us concerning external things may be illusory, not only in form and detail and appearance,
but in substantial fact.

He must be pleased, also, with the enterprise of those eager philosophers who are so strenuously
impressed with the truth of some ultimate monistic unification, as to be unwilling to concede
the multifariousness of existence--who decline to speak of mind and matter, or of body and
spirit, or of God and the world, as in any sense separate entities--who stigmatise as dualistic
anything which does not manifestly and consciously strain after an ultimate monistic view--and
who then, as a climax, on the strength of a few years' superficial experience on a planet,
by the aid of the sense organs which they themselves perceive to be illusory whenever the actual
reality of things is in contemplation, proceed to develop the theory that the whole has come
into being without direct intelligence and apart from spiritual guidance, that it is managed
so well (or so ill) that it is really not managed at all, that no Deity exists, and that it
is absurd to postulate the existence of a comprehensive and all-inclusive guiding Mind.

To be able to perceive comprehensively and state fully not only what is, but also what is not,
is a wonderful achievement. I do not think that such a power has yet been acquired by any of
the sons of men; nor will the semi-educated readers of this country be wise if they pin their
faith and build their hopes on the utterances of any man, however eminent, who makes this superhuman
claim.

Now, in all charity, it must be admitted that in some passages Professor Haeckel puts himself
under the ban implied by the above paragraph, inasmuch as he conducts a sort of free and easy
attack on religion, especially on what he conceives to be the fundamental doctrines of Christianity.
But, after all, it can be perceived that his attack, so far as it is really an attack on religion,
is evidently inspired by his mistrust and dislike, and to some extent fear, of Ecclesiasticism,
especially of the Ultramontane movement in Germany, against which he says Prince Bismarck began
a struggle in 1872. It is this kind of semi-political religion that he is really attacking,
more than the pure essence of Christianity itself. He regards it as a bigoted system hostile
to knowledge--which, if true, would amply justify an attack--and he says on page 118:--

    "The great struggle between modern science and orthodox
    Christianity has become more threatening; it has grown more
    dangerous for science in proportion as Christianity has found
    support in an increasing mental and political reaction."

This may seem an exaggerated fear; but the following extract from a Pastoral address by the
Bishop of Newport, which accidentally I saw reported in The Tablet, shows that the danger is
not wholly imaginary, if unwise opinions are pressed to their logical practical issue:--

    "If the formulas of modern science contradict the science of
    Catholic dogma, it is the former that must be altered, not the
    latter."[2]

      [2] In case it is unfair to wrench a sentence like this from its
      context, I quote the larger portion of that instructive report in
      this note:--

          Extract from "The Tablet," Aug. 27th, 1904--An Address
          by the Bishop of Newport.

          "If the Abbé Loisy has followers within the Church, as we are
          informed he has, it cannot be doubted that the danger for
          Catholics is by no means imaginary. For Loisy teaches that
          the dogmatic definitions of the Church [on the Incarnation],
          although the best that could be given at the time and under
          the circumstances, are only a most inadequate expression of
          the real truth, which they represent merely relatively and
          imperfectly. These definitions, he says, should now be stated
          afresh, because the traditional formula no longer corresponds
          to the way in which the mystery is regarded by contemporary
          thought. In his view, our present knowledge of the universe
          should suggest to the Church a new examination of the dogma
          of Creation; our knowledge of history should make her revise
          her ideas of revelation; and our progress in psychology and
          moral philosophy should suggest to her to re-state her
          theology of the Incarnation. Every one can see that there is
          a grain of truth in this kind of talk. But it is, on the
          whole, a pestilent and dangerous heresy. If modern
          metaphysics are incompatible with the metaphysical terms and
          expressions adopted by councils and explained by the Catholic
          schools, then modern metaphysics must be rejected as
          erroneous. The Church does not change her Christian
          philosophy to suit the world's speculations; she teaches the
          world, by her theological definitions, what true and sound
          philosophy is. Whilst every effort should be made by Catholic
          apologists to smooth the way for a genuine understanding of
          the Church's dogmatic terminology, two things must never be
          lost sight of, first, that this terminology expresses real
          objective truth (however inadequate the expression may be to
          the full meaning, as God sees it, of any given mystery); and,
          secondly, that such truth is expressed in terms of sound
          philosophy which will not be given up, and which may be
          called the Christian philosophy."

Professor Haeckel continues his criticism of Official Christianity in the following vein:--

    "The so-called 'Peace between Church and State' is never more than
    a suspension of hostilities. The modern Papacy, true to the
    despotic principles it has followed for the last 1600 years, is
    determined to wield sole dominion over the credulous souls of men;
    it must demand the absolute submission of the cultured State,
    which, as such, defends the rights of reason and science. True and
    enduring peace there cannot be until one of the combatants lies
    powerless on the ground. Either the Church wins, and then farewell
    to all 'free science and free teaching'--then are our universities
    no better than gaols, and our colleges become cloistral schools; or
    else the modern rational State proves victorious--then, in the
    twentieth century, human culture, freedom, and prosperity will
    continue their progressive development until they far surpass even
    the height of the nineteenth century.

    "In order to compass these high aims, it is of the first importance
    that modern science not only shatter the false structures of
    superstition and sweep their ruins from the path, but that it also
    erect a new abode for human emotion on the ground it has cleared--a
    'palace of reason,' in which, under the influence of our new
    monistic views, we do reverence to the real trinity of the
    nineteenth century--the trinity of 'the true, the good, and the
    beautiful'" (p. 119).

These are the bases of religion, adopted from Goethe, which in Haeckel's view should entirely
replace what he calls the Trinity of Kant, viz., God, Freedom, and Immortality--three ideas
which he regards as mere superstition or as so enveloped in superstition as to be worthless.

Occasionally, however, he attacks not solely ecclesiastical Christianity--in which enterprise
he is entirely within his rights,--but he goes further and abuses some of its more primitive
forms, and to some extent its practical fruits also. For instance:--

    "Primitive Christianity preached the worthlessness of earthly life,
    regarding it merely as a preparation for an eternal life beyond.
    Hence it immediately followed that all we find in the life of a man
    here below, all that is beautiful in art and science, in public and
    in private life, is of no real value. The true Christian must avert
    his eyes from them; he must think only of a worthy preparation for
    the life beyond. Contempt of nature, aversion from all its
    inexhaustible charms, rejection of every kind of fine art, are
    Christian duties; and they are carried out to perfection when a man
    separates himself from his fellows, chastises his body, and spends
    all his time in prayers in the cloister or the hermit's cell.... A
    Christian art is a contradiction in terms" (p. 120).

I think it may without offence be said that if he means by "Primitive Christianity" the teachings
of Christ, he is mistaken, and has something to learn as to what those teachings really were.
If he means the times of persecution under the Roman empire, he could hardly expect much concentration
on artistic pursuits or much enjoyment of terrestrial existence when it was liable to be violently
extinguished at any moment: sufficient that the early Church survived its struggle for existence.
But if he is referring to mediæval Christianity, of any other than a debased kind,--common
knowledge concerning mediæval art and architecture sufficiently rebuts the indictment. So much
so, that one may almost wonder if by chance he happened to be thinking of "Mohammedanism" rather
than of Christianity.

But he continues, in a more practical and observant vein:--

    "Christianity has no place for that well-known love of animals,
    that sympathy with the nearly-related and friendly mammals (dogs,
    horses, cattle, etc.) which is urged in the ethical teaching of
    many of the older religions, especially Buddhism. (Unfortunately,
    Descartes gave some support to the error in teaching that man only
    has a sensitive soul, not the animal.) Whoever has spent much time
    in the south of Europe must have often witnessed those frightful
    sufferings of animals which fill us friends of animals with the
    deepest sympathy and indignation. And when one expostulates with
    these brutal 'Christians' on their cruelty, the only answer is,
    with a laugh: 'But the beasts are not Christians'" (p. 126).

This, if true, and I have heard it from other sources, does constitute rather a serious indictment
against the form of practical Christianity understood by the ignorant classes among the Latin
races.

To return, however, to the concluding paragraph of the extract quoted above (on page 81) from
his page 119:--

No one can have any objection to raise against the dignity and worthiness of the three great
attributes which excite Professor Haeckel's, as they excited Goethe's, worship and admiration,
viz., the three "goddesses," as he calls them: Truth, Goodness, and Beauty; but there is no
necessary competition or antagonism between these and the other three great conceptions which
aroused the veneration of Kant: God, Freedom, and Immortality; nor does the upholding of the
one triad mean the overthrow of the other: they may be all co-eternal together and co-equal.
Nor are either of these triplets inconsistent with some reasonable view of what may be meant
by the Christian Trinity. The total possibility of existence is so vast that no simple formula,
nor indeed any form of words, however complex, is likely to be able to sum it up and express
its essence to the exclusion of all other modes of expression. It is a pity, therefore, that
Professor Haeckel should think it necessary to decry one set of ideas in order to support another
set. There is room for all in this large universe--room for everything, except downright lies
and falseness.

Concerning Truth there is no need to speak: it cannot but be the breath of the nostrils of
every genuine scientific man; but his ideas of truth should be large enough to take into account
possibilities far beyond anything of which he is at present sure, and he should be careful
to be undogmatic and docile in regions of which at present he has not the key.

The meaning of Goodness, the whole domain of ethics, and the higher possibilities of sainthood
of which the human spirit has shown itself capable, are at present outside his domain; and
if a man of science seeks to dogmatise concerning the emotions and the will, and asserts that
he can reduce them to atomic forces and motions, because he has learnt to recognise the undoubted
truth that atomic forces and motions must accompany them and constitute the machinery of their
manifestation here and now,--he is exhibiting the smallness of his conceptions and gibbeting
himself as a laughing-stock to future generations.

The atmosphere and full meaning of Beauty also he can only dimly grasp. If he seeks to explain
it in terms of sexual selection, or any other small conception which he has recently been able
to form in connection with vital procedure on this planet, he is explaining nothing: he is
merely showing how the perception of beauty may operate in certain cases; but the inner nature
of beauty and the faculty by which it is perceived are utterly beyond him. He cannot but feel
that the unconscious and unobtrusive beauty of field and hedgerow must have originated in obedience
to some primal instinct or in fulfilment of some immanent desire, some lofty need quite other
than anything he recognises as human.

And if a poet witnessing the colours of a sunset, for instance, or the profusion of beauty
with which snow mountains seem to fling themselves to the heavens in districts unpeopled and
in epochs long before human consciousness awoke upon the earth: if such a seer feels the revelation
weigh upon his spirit with an almost sickening pressure, and is constrained to ascribe this
wealth and prodigality of beauty to the joy of the Eternal Being in His own existence, to an
anticipation as it were of the developments which lie before the universe in which He is at
work, and which He is slowly tending towards an unimaginable perfection--it behooves the man
of science to put his hand upon his mouth, lest in his efforts to be true, in the absence of
knowledge, he find himself uttering, in his ignorance, words of lamentable folly or blasphemy.

Man and Nature.

Consider our own position--it is surely worth considering. We are
a part of this planet; on one side certainly and distinctly a part
 of this material world, a part which has become self-conscious. At
first we were a part which had become alive; a tremendous step
that--introducing a number of powers and privileges which previously
had been impossible, but that step introduced no responsibility; we
were no longer, indeed, urged by mere pressure from behind, we were
guided by our instincts and appetites, but we still obeyed the
strongest external motive, almost like electro-magnetic automata. Now,
however, we have become conscious, able to look before and after, to
learn consciously from the past, to strive strenuously towards the
future; we have acquired a knowledge of good and evil, we can choose
the one and reject the other, and are thus burdened with a sense of
responsibility for our acts. We still obey the strongest motive
doubtless, but there is something in ourselves which makes it a motive
and regulates its strength. We can drift like other animals, and
often do; but we can also obey our own volition.

I would not deny the rudiments of self-consciousness, and some of what it implies, to certain
domestic animals, notably the dog; but domestication itself is a result of humanity, and undoubtedly
the attributes we are discussing are chiefly and almost solely human, they can hardly be detected
in wild nature. No other animal can have a full perception of its own individuality and personality
as separate from the rest of existence. Such ideas do not occur in the early periods of even
human infancy: they are a later growth. Self-consciousness must have become prominent at a
certain stage in the evolutionary process.

How it all arose is a legitimate problem for genetic psychology, but to the plain man it is
a puzzle; our ancestors invented legends to account for it--legends of apples and serpents
and the like; but the fact is there, however it be accounted for. The truth embedded in that
old Genesis legend is deep; it is the legend of man's awakening from a merely animal life to
consciousness of good and evil, no longer obeying his primal instincts in a state of thoughtlessness
and innocency--a state in which deliberate vice was impossible and therefore higher and purposed
goodness also impossible,--it was the introduction of a new sense into the world, the sense
of conscience, the power of deliberate choice; the power also of conscious guidance, the management
of things and people external to himself, for preconceived ends. Man was beginning to cease
to be merely a passenger on the planet, controlled by outside forces; it is as if the reins
were then for the first time being placed in his hands, as if he was allowed to begin to steer,
to govern his own fate and destiny, and to take over some considerable part of the management
of the world.

The process of handing over the reins to us is still going on. The education of the human race
is a long process, and we are not yet fit to be fully trusted with the steering gear; but the
words of the old serpent were true enough: once open our eyes to the perception and discrimination
of good and evil, once become conscious of freedom of choice, and sooner or later we must inevitably
acquire some of the power and responsibility of gods. A fall it might seem, just as a vicious
man sometimes seems degraded below the beasts, but in promise and potency a rise it really was.

The oneness between ourselves and Nature is not a thing to be deplored; it is a thing to rejoice
at, when properly conceived. It awakens a kind of religious enthusiasm even in Haeckel, who
clearly perceives but a limited aspect of it; yet the perception is vivid enough to cause him,
this so-called Atheist, to close his Confession of Faith with words such as these:--

    "Now, at last, it is given to the mightily advancing human mind to
    have its eyes opened; it is given to it to show that a true
    knowledge of nature affords full satisfaction and inexhaustible
    nourishment not only for its searching understanding, but also for
    its yearning spirit.

    "Knowledge of the true, training for the good, pursuit of the
    beautiful: these are the three great departments of our monism; by
    the harmonious and consistent cultivation of these we effect at
    last the truly beatific union of religion and science, so painfully
    longed after by so many to-day. The True, the Beautiful, and the
    Good, these are the three august Divine Ones before which we bow
    the knee in adoration....

    "In the hope that free research and free teaching may always
    continue, I conclude my monistic Confession of Faith with the
    words: 'May God, the Spirit of the Good, the Beautiful, and the
    True, be with us.'"

This is clearly the utterance of a man to whose type I unconsciously referred in an article
written two years ago (Hibbert Journal, January 1903), from which I now make the following
appropriate extract:--

Looking at the loom of nature, the feeling not of despair, but of what has been called atheism,
one ingredient of atheism, has arisen: atheism never fully realised, and wrongly so called--recently
it has been called severe Theism, indeed; for it is joyful sometimes, interested and placid
always, exultant at the strange splendour of the spectacle which its intellect has laid bare
to contemplation, satisfied with the perfection of the mechanism, content to be a part of the
self-generated organism, and endeavouring to think that the feelings of duty, of earnest effort,
and of faithful service, which conspicuously persist in spite of all discouragement, are on
this view intelligible as well as instinctive, and sure that nothing less than unrepining unfaltering
unswerving acquiescence is worthy of our dignity as man.

The above 'Confession of Faith,' then, is very well; for the man himself very well indeed,
but it is not enough for the race. Other parts of Haeckel's writings show that it is not enough,
and that his conception of what he means by Godhead is narrow and limited to an extent at which
instinct, reason, and experience alike rebel. No one can be satisfied with conceptions below
the highest which to him are possible: I doubt if it is given to man to think out a clear and
consistent system higher and nobler than the real truth. Our highest thoughts are likely to
be nearest to reality: they must be stages in the direction of truth, else they could not have
come to us and been recognised as highest. So, also, with our longings and aspirations towards
ultimate perfection, those desires which we recognise as our noblest and best: surely they
must have some correspondence with the facts of existence, else had they been unattainable
by us. Reality is not to be surpassed, except locally and temporarily, by the ideals of knowledge
and goodness invented by a fraction of itself; and if we could grasp the entire scheme of things,
so far from wishing to

            "shatter it to bits and then
    Remould it nearer to the heart's desire,"

we should hail it as better and more satisfying than any of our random imaginings. The universe
is in no way limited to our conceptions: it has a reality apart from them; nevertheless, they
themselves constitute a part of it, and can only take a clear and consistent character in so
far as they correspond with something true and real. Whatever we can clearly and consistently
conceive, that is ipso facto in a sense already existent in the universe as a whole; and that,
or something better, we shall find to be a dim foreshadowing of a higher reality.

                     *      *      *      *      *

EXPLANATORY NOTE ON CONSTRUCTIVE THOUGHT AND OPTIMISM.

(Partly reprinted from "Mind.")

It may be worth while to explain how it is that, to a physicist unsmitten with any taint of
solipsism, a well-elaborated scheme which is consistent with already known facts necessarily
seems to correspond, or have close affinity, with the truth. It is the result of experience
of a mathematical theorem concerning unique distributions. For instance, it can be shown that
in an electric field, however complicated, any distribution of potential which satisfies boundary
conditions, and one or two other essential criteria, must be the actual distribution; for it
has been rigorously proved that there cannot be two or more distributions which satisfy those
conditions, hence if one is arrived at theoretically, or intuitively, or by any means, it must
be the correct one; and no further proof is required.

So, also, in connection with analogies and working models: although they must necessarily be
imperfect, so long as they are only analogies, yet the making or imagining of models (not necessarily
or usually a material model, but a conceptual model) is a recognised way of arriving at an
understanding of recondite and ultra-sensual processes, occurring say in the ether or elsewhere.
As an addition to evidence derived from such experiments as have been found possible, and as
a supplement to the experience out of which, as out of a nucleus, every conception must grow,
the mind is set to design and invent a self-coherent scheme which shall imitate as far as possible
the results exhibited by nature. By then using this as a working hypothesis, and pressing it
into extremes, it can be gradually amended until it shows no sign of discordance or failure
anywhere, and even serves as a guide to new and previously unsuspected phenomena. When that
stage is reached, it is provisionally accepted and tentatively held as a step in the direction
of the truth; though the mind is always kept ready to improve and modify and enlarge it, in
accordance with the needs of more thorough investigation and fresh discovery. It was so, for
instance, with Maxwell's electromagnetic theory of light; and there are a multitude of other
instances.

In the transcendental or ultra-mundane or supersensual region there is the further difficulty
to be encountered, that we are not acquainted with anything like all the 'boundary conditions,'
so to speak; we only know our little bit of the boundary, and we may err egregiously in inferring
or attempting to infer the remainder. We may even make a mistake as to the form of function
adapted to the case. Nevertheless there is no better clue, and the human mind is impelled to
do the best it can with the confessedly imperfect data which it finds at its disposal. The
result, therefore, in this region, is no system of definite and certain truth, as in Physics,
but is either suspense of judgment altogether, or else a tentative scheme or working hypothesis,
to be held undogmatically, in an attitude of constant receptiveness for further light, and
in full readiness for modification in the direction of the truth.

So far concerning the ascertainment of truth alone, in intangible regions of inquiry. The further
hypothesis that such truth when found will be most satisfactory, or in other words higher and
better than any alternative plan,--the conviction that faith in the exceeding grandeur of reality
shall not be confounded,--requires further justification; and its grounds are not so easy to
formulate. Perhaps the feeling is merely human and instinctive; but it is existent and customary
I believe among physicists, possibly among men of Science in general, though I cannot speak
for all; and it must be based upon familiarity with a mass of experience in which, after long
groping and guess-work, the truth has ultimately been discovered, and been recognised as 'very
good.' It is illustrated, for instance, by the words in which Tyndall closes the first edition
of his book on Sound, wherein, after explaining Helmholtz's brilliant theory of Corti's organ
and the musical mechanism of the ear,--a theory which, amid the difficulties of actual observation,
was necessarily at first saturated with hypothesis, and is not even yet fully verified,--he says:--

    "Within the ears of men, and without their knowledge or
    contrivance, this lute of 3000 strings has existed for ages,
    accepting the music of the outer world, and rendering it fit for
    reception by the brain.... I do not ask you to consider these views
    as established, but only as probable. They present the phenomena in
    a connected and intelligible form; and should they be doomed to
    displacement by a more correct or comprehensive theory, it will
    assuredly be found that the wonder is not diminished by the
    substitution of the truth."

CHAPTER VI

MIND AND MATTER

What, then, is the probable essence of truth in Professor Haeckel's philosophy? for it is not
to be supposed that the speculations of an eminent man are baseless, or that he has been led
to his view of what he conceives to be the truth by some wholly erroneous path; his intuitive
convictions are to be respected, for they are based on a far wider experience and knowledge
of fact than is given to the average man; and for the average man to consider it likely that
there is no foundation whatever for the life convictions of a great specialist is as foolish
as to suppose it probable that they are certain and infallible, or that they are uncritically
to be accepted even in regions beyond those over which his jurisdiction extends.

First as to the "law of substance," by which he sets so much store; the fact which he is really,
though indistinctly, trying to emphasise, is what I have preferred to formulate as "the persistence
of the really existent," see page 34; and, with that modification, we can agree with Haeckel,
or with what I take to be his inner meaning, to some extent. We may all fairly agree, I think,
that whatever really and fundamentally exists must, so far as bare existence is concerned,
be independent of time. It may go through many changes, and thus have a history; that is to
say, must have definite time-relations, so far as its changes are concerned; but it can hardly
be thought of as either going out of existence, or as coming into existence, at any given period,
though it may completely change its form and accidents; everything basal must have a past and
a future of some kind or other, though any special concatenation or arrangement may have a
date of origin and of destruction.

A crowd, for instance, is of this fugitive character: it assembles and it disperses, its existence
as a crowd is over, but its constituent elements persist; and the same can be said of a planet
or a sun. Yet for some "soul" or underlying reality even in these temporary accretions there
is permanence of a sort:--Tyndall's "streak of morning cloud," though it may have "melted into
infinite azure," has not thereby become non-existent, although as a visible object it has disappeared
from our ken and become a memory only. It is true that it was a mere aggregate or accidental
agglomeration--it had developed no self-consciousness, nothing that could be called personality
or identity characterised it,--and so no individual persistence is to be expected for it; yet
even it--low down in the scale of being as it is--even it has rejoined the general body of
aqueous vapour whence, through the incarnating influence of night, it arose. The thing that
is, both was and shall be, and whatever does not satisfy this condition must be an accidental
or fugitive or essentially temporary conglomeration or assemblage, and not one of the fundamental
entities of the universe. It is interesting to remember that this was one of the opinions strongly
held by the late Professor Tait, who considered that persistence or conservation was the test
or criterion of real existence.

The question, How many fundamental entities in this sense there are, and what they are, is
a difficult one. Many people, including such opposite thinkers as Tait and Haeckel, would say
"matter" and "energy"; though Haeckel chooses, on his own account, to add that these two are
one. (Perhaps Professor Ostwald would agree with him there; though to me the meaning is vague.)
Physical science, pushed to the last resort, would probably reply that, within its sphere of
knowledge at the present stage, the fundamental entities are ether and motion; and that of
other things at present it knows next to nothing. If physical science is interrogated as to
the probable persistence, i.e., the fundamental existence, of "life" or of "mind," it ought
to reply that it does not know; if asked about "personality," or "souls," or "God,"--about
all of which Professor Haeckel has fully-fledged opinions--it would have to ask for a definition
of the terms, and would speak either not at all or with bated breath concerning them.

The possibility that "life" may be a real and basal form of existence, and therefore persistent,
is a possibility to be borne in mind. It may at least serve as a clue to investigation, and
some day may bear fruit; at present it is no better than a working hypothesis. It is one that
on the whole commends itself to me; for I conceive that though we only know of it as a function
of terrestrial matter, yet that it has another aspect too, and I say this because I see it
arriving and leaving--animating matter for a time and then quitting it, just as I see dew appearing
and disappearing on a plate. Apart from a solid surface, dew cannot exist as such; and to a
savage it might seem to spring into and to go out of existence--to be an exudation from the
solid, and dependent wholly upon it; but we happen to know more about it: we know that it has
a permanent and continuous existence in an imperceptible, intangible, supersensual form, though
its visible manifestation in the form of mist or dew is temporary and evanescent. Perhaps it
is permissible to trace in that elementary phenomenon some superficial analogy to an incarnation.

The fact concerning life which lies at the root of Professor Haeckel's doctrine about its origin,
is that living beings have undoubtedly made their appearance on this planet, where at one time
they cannot be suspected of having existed. Consequently that whatever life may be, it is something
which can begin to interact with the atoms of terrestrial matter, at some period, or state
of aggregation, or other condition of elaboration,--a condition which may perhaps be rather
definite, if only we were aware of what it was. But that undoubted fact is quite consistent
with any view as to the nature of "life," and even with any view as to the mode of its terrestrial
commencement; there is nothing in that to say that it is a function of matter alone, any more
than the wind is a function of the leaves which dance under its influence; there is nothing
even to contradict the notion that it sprang into existence suddenly at a literal word of command.

The mode in which biological speculation as to the probable development of living out of dead
matter, and the general relation of protoplasm to physics and chemistry, can be surmised or
provisionally granted, without thereby concurring in any destructive criticism of other facts
and experiences, is explained in Chapter X. on "Life," further on: and there I emphasise my
agreement with parts of the speculative contentions of Professor Haeckel on the positive side.

Soul and Body.

Let us consider what are the facts scientifically known concerning the interaction between
mind and matter. Fundamentally they amount to this: that a complex piece of matter, called
the brain, is the organ or instrument of mind and consciousness; that if it be stimulated mental
activity results; that if it be injured or destroyed no manifestation of mental activity is
possible. Moreover, it is assumed, and need not be doubted, that a portion of brain substance
is consumed, oxidised let us say, in every act of mentation: using that term in the vaguest
and most general sense, and including in it unconscious as well as conscious operations.

Suppose we grant all this, what then? We have granted that brain is the means whereby mind
is made manifest on this material plane, it is the instrument through which alone we know it,
but we have not granted that mind is limited to its material manifestation; nor can we maintain
that without matter the things we call mind, intelligence, consciousness, have no sort of existence.
Mind may be incorporate or incarnate in matter, but it may also transcend it; it is through
the region of ideas and the intervention of mind that we have become aware of the existence
of matter. It is injudicious to discard our primary and fundamental awareness for what is after
all an instinctive inference or interpretation of certain sensations.

The realities underlying those sensations are only known to us by inference, but they have
an independent existence: in their inmost nature they may be quite other than what they seem,
and are in no way dependent upon our perception of them. So, also, our actual personality may
be something considerably unlike that conception of it which is based on our present terrestrial
consciousness--a form of consciousness suited to, and developed by, our temporary existence
here, but not necessarily more than a fraction of our total self.

Take an analogy: the eye is the organ of vision; by it we perceive light. Stimulate the retina
in any way, and we are conscious of the sensation of light; injure or destroy the eye, and
vision becomes imperfect or impossible. If eyes did not exist we should probably know nothing
about light, and we might be tempted to say that light did not exist. In a sense, to a blind
race, light would not exist--that is to say, there would be no sensation of light, there would
be no sight; but the underlying physical cause of that sensation--the ripples in the ether--would
be there all the time. And it is these ethereal ripples which a physicist understands by the
term "light." It is quite conceivable that a race of blind physicists would be able to devise
experimental means whereby they could make experiments on what to us is luminous radiation,
just as we now make experiments on electric waves, for which we have no sense organ. It would
be absurd for a psychologist to inform them that light did not exist because sight did not.
The term might have to be reconsidered and redefined; indeed, most likely a polysyllabic term
would be employed, as is unfortunately usual when a thing of which the race in general has
no intimate knowledge requires nomenclature. But the thing would be there, though its mode
of manifestation would be different; a term like "vision" might still be employed, to signify
our mode of perceiving and experiencing the agency which now manifests itself to us through
our eyes; and plants might grow by the aid of that agency just as they do now.

So, also, brain is truly the organ of mind and consciousness, and to a brainless race these
terms, and all other terms, would be meaningless; but no one is at liberty to assert, on the
strength of that fact, that the realities underlying our use of those terms have no existence
apart from terrestrial brains. Nor can we say with any security that the stuff called "brain"
is the only conceivable machinery which they are able to utilise: though it is true that we
know of no other. Yet it would seem that such a proposition must be held by a materialist,
or by what can be implied by the term "monist," used in its narrowest and most unphilosophic
sense--a sense which would be better expressed by the term materialistic-monist, with a limitation
of the term matter to the terrestrial chemical elements and their combinations, i.e., to that
form of substance to which the human race has grown accustomed--a sense which tends to exclude
ethereal and other generalisations and unknown possibilities such as would occur to a philosophic
monist of the widest kind.

For that it may ultimately be discovered that there is some intimate and necessary connection
between a generalised form of matter and some lofty variety of mind is not to be denied; though
also it cannot be asserted. It has been surmised, for instance, that just as the corpuscles
and atoms of matter, in their intricate movements and relations, combine to form the brain
cell of a human being; so the cosmic bodies, the planets and suns and other groupings of the
ether, may perhaps combine to form something corresponding as it were to the brain cell of
some transcendent Mind. The idea is to be found in Newton. The thing is a mere guess, it is
not an impossibility, and it cannot be excluded from a philosophic system by any negative statement
based on scientific fact. In some such sense as that, matter and mind may be, for all we know,
eternally and necessarily connected; they can be different aspects of some fundamental unity;
and a lofty kind of monism can be true, just as a lofty kind of pantheism can be true. But
the miserable degraded monism and lower pantheism, which limits the term "god" to that part
of existence of which we are now aware--sometimes, indeed, to a fraction only of that--which
limits the term "mind" to that of which we are ourselves conscious, and the term "matter" to
the dust of the earth and the other visible bodies, is a system of thought appropriate, perhaps,
to a fertile and energetic portion of the nineteenth century, but not likely to survive as
a system of perennial truth.

The term "organ" itself should have given pause to anyone desirous of promulgating a scheme
such as that.

"Organ" is a name popularly given to an instrument of music. Without it, or some other instrument,
no material manifestation or display of music is possible; it is an instrument for the incarnation
of music--the means whereby it interacts with the material world and throws the air and so
our ears into vibration, it is the means whereby we apprehend it. Injure the organ and the
music is imperfect; destroy it and it ceases to be possible. But is it to be asserted on the
strength of that fact that the term "music" has no significance apart from its material manifestation?
Have the ideas of Sir Edward Elgar no reality apart from their record on paper and reproduction
by an orchestra? It is true that without suitable instruments and a suitable sense-organ we
should know nothing of music, but it cannot be supposed that its underlying essence would be
therefore extinct or non-existent and meaningless. Can there not be in the universe a multitude
of things which matter as we know it is incompetent to express? Is it not the complaint of
every genius that his material is intractable, that it is difficult to coerce matter as he
knows it into the service of mind as he is conscious of it, and that his conceptions transcend
his powers of expression?

The connection between soul and body, or more generally between spiritual and material, has
been illustrated by the connection between the meaning of a sentence and the written or spoken
word conveying that meaning. The writing or the speaking may be regarded as an incarnation
of the meaning, a mode of stating or exhibiting its essence. As delivered, the sentence must
have time relations; it has a beginning, middle, and end; it may be repeated, and the same
general meaning may be expressed in other words; but the intrinsic meaning of the sentence
itself need have no time relations, it may be true always, it may exist as an eternal "now,"
though it may be perceived and expressed by humanity with varying clearness from time to time.

The soul of a thing is its underlying permanent reality--that which gives it its meaning and
confers upon it its attributes. The body is an instrument or mechanism for the manifestation
or sensible presentation of what else would be imperceptible. It is useless to ask whether
a soul is immortal--a soul is always immortal "where a soul can be discerned": the question
to ask concerning any given object is whether it has a soul or meaning or personal underlying
reality at all.

Those who think that reality is limited to its terrestrial manifestation doubtless have a philosophy
of their own, to which they are entitled and to which at any rate they are welcome; but if
they set up to teach others that monism signifies a limitation of mind to the potentialities
of matter as at present known; if they teach a pantheism which identifies God with nature in
this narrow sense; if they hold that mind and what they call matter are so intimately connected
that no transcendence is possible; that, without the cerebral hemispheres, consciousness and
intelligence and emotion and love, and all the higher attributes towards which humanity is
slowly advancing, would cease to be; that the term "soul" signifies "a sum of plasma-movements
in the ganglion cells"; and that the term "God" is limited to the operation of a known evolutionary
process, and can be represented as "the infinite sum of all natural forces, the sum of all
atomic forces and all ether vibrations," to quote Professor Haeckel (Confession of Faith, p.
78); then such philosophers must be content with an audience of uneducated persons, or, if
writing as men of science, must hold themselves liable to be opposed by other men of science,
who are able, at any rate in their own judgment, to take a wider survey of existence, and to
perceive possibilities to which the said narrow and over-definite philosophers were blind.

Life and Guidance.

Matter possesses energy, in the form of persistent motion, and it is propelled by force; but
neither matter nor energy possesses the power of automatic guidance and control. Energy has
no directing power (this has been elaborated by Croll and others: see, for instance, p. 24,
and a letter in Nature, vol. 43, p. 434, thirteen years ago, under the heading "Force and Determinism").
Inorganic matter is impelled solely by pressure from behind, it is not influenced by the future,
nor does it follow a preconceived course nor seek a predetermined end.

An organism animated by mind is in a totally different case. The intangible influences of hunger,
of a call, of perception of something ahead, are then the dominant feature. An intelligent
animal which is being pushed is in an ignominious position and resents it; when led, or when
voluntarily obeying a call, it is in its rightful attitude.

The essence of mind is design and purpose. There are some who deny that there is any design
or purpose in the universe at all: but how can that be maintained when humanity itself possesses
these attributes? (cf. pp. 54, 74). Is it not more reasonable to say that just as we are conscious
of the power of guidance in ourselves, so guidance and intelligent control may be an element
running through the universe, and may be incorporated even in material things?

A traveller who has lost his way in a mountain district, coming across a path, may rejoice,
saying, "This will guide me home." A materialist, if he were consistent, should laugh such
a traveller to scorn, saying, "What guidance or purpose can there be in a material object?
there is no guidance or purpose in the universe; things are because they cannot be otherwise,
not because of any intention underlying them. How can a path, which is little better than the
absence of grass or the wearing down of stones, know where you live or guide you to any desired
destination? Moreover, whatever knowledge or purpose the path exhibits must be in the path,
must be a property of the atoms of which it is composed. To them some fraction of will, of
power, of knowledge, and of feeling may perhaps be attributed, and from their aggregation something
of the same kind may perhaps be deduced. If the traveller can decipher that, he may utilise
the material object to his advantage; but if he conceives the path to have been made with any
teleological object or intelligent purpose, he is abandoning himself to superstition, and is
as likely to be led by it to the edge of a precipice as to anywhere else. Let him follow his
superstition at his peril!"

This is not a quotation, of course: but it is a parable.

Matter is the instrument and vehicle of mind; incarnation is the mode by which mind interacts
with the present scheme of things, and thereby the element of guidance is supplied; it can,
in fact, be embodied in an intelligent arrangement of inert inorganic matter. Even a mountain
path exhibits the property of guidance, and has direction: it is an incorporation of intelligence,
though itself inert.

Direction is not a function of energy. The energy of sound from an organ is supplied by the
blower of the bellows, which may be worked by a mechanical engine; but the melody and harmony,
the sequence and co-existence of notes, are determined by the dominating mind of the musician:
not necessarily of the executant alone, for the composer's mind may be evoked to some extent
even by a pianola. The music may be said to be incarnate in the roll of paper which is ready
to be passed through the instrument. So also can the conception of any artist receive material
embodiment in his work, and if a picture or a beautiful building is destroyed it can be made
to rise again from its ashes provided the painter or the architect still lives: in other words,
his thought can receive a fresh incarnation; and a perception of the beautiful form shall hereafter,
in a kindred spirit, arouse similar ideas.

There is thus a truth in materialism, but it is not a truth readily to be apprehended and formulated.
Matter may become imbued with life, and full of vital association; something of the personality
of a departed owner seems to cling sometimes about an old garment, its curves and folds can
suggest him vividly to our recollection. I would not too blatantly assert that even a doll
on which much affection had been lavished was wholly inert and material in the inorganic sense.
The tattered colours of a regiment are sometimes thought worthy to be hung in a church. They
are a symbol truly, but they may be something more. I have reason to believe that a trace of
individuality can cling about terrestrial objects in a vague and almost imperceptible fashion,
but to a degree sufficient to enable those traces to be detected by persons with suitable faculties.

There is a deep truth in materialism; and it is the foundation of the material parts of worship--sacraments
and the like. It is possible to exaggerate their efficacy, but it is also possible to ignore
it too completely. The whole universe is metrical, everything is a question of degree. A property
like radio-activity or magnetism, discovered conspicuously in one form of matter, turns out
to be possessed by matter of every kind, though to very varying extent.

So it would appear to be with the power possessed by matter to incarnate and display mind.

There are grades of incarnation: the most thorough kind is that illustrated by our bodies;
in them we are incarnate, but probably not even in that case is the incarnation complete. It
is quite credible that our whole and entire personality is never terrestrially manifest.

There are grades of incarnation. Some of the personality of an Old Master is locked up in a
painting: and whoever wilfully destroys a great picture is guilty of something akin to murder,
namely, the premature and violent separation of soul and body. Some of the soul of a musician
can be occluded in a piece of manuscript, to be deciphered thereafter by a perceptive mind.

Matter is the vehicle of mind, but it is dominated and transcended by it. A painting is held
together by cohesive forces among the atoms of its pigments, and if those forces rebelled or
turned repulsive the picture would be disintegrated and destroyed; yet those forces did not
make the picture. A cathedral is held together by inorganic forces, and it was built in obedience
to them, but they do not explain it. It may owe its existence and design to the thought of
someone who never touched a stone, or even of someone who was dead before it was begun. In
its symbolism it represents One who was executed many centuries ago. Death and Time are far
from dominant.

Are we so sure that when we truly attribute a sunset, or the moonlight rippling on a lake,
to the chemical and physical action of material forces--to the vibrations of matter and ether
as we know them, that we have exhausted the whole truth of things? Many a thinker, brooding
over the phenomena of Nature, has felt that they represent the thoughts of a dominating unknown
Mind partially incarnate in it all.

CHAPTER VII

PROFESSOR HAECKEL'S CONJECTURAL PHILOSOPHY

A reply to Mr M'Cabe.

    Part of the preceding, so far as it is a criticism of Haeckel, was
    given by me in the first instance as a Presidential Address to the
    Members of the Birmingham and Midland Institute; and the greater
    portion of this Address was printed in the Hibbert Journal for
    January 1905. Mr M'Cabe, the translator of Haeckel, thereupon took
    up the cudgels on behalf of his Chief, and wrote an article in the
    following July issue; to the pages of which references will be
    given when quoting. A few observations of mine in reply to this
    article emphasise one or two points which perhaps previously were
    not quite clear; and so this reply, from the October number of the
    Hibbert Journal, may be conveniently here reproduced.

I have no fault to find with the tone of Mr M'Cabe's criticism of my criticism of Haeckel,
and it is satisfactory that one who has proved himself an enthusiastic disciple, as well as
a most industrious and competent translator, should stand up for the honour and credit of a
foreign Master when he is attacked.

But in admitting the appropriateness and the conciliatory tone of his article, I must not be
supposed to agree with its contentions; for although he seeks to show that after all there
is but little difference between myself and Haeckel--and although in a sense that is true as
regards the fundamental facts of science, distinguishing the facts themselves from any hypothetical
and interpretative gloss--yet with Haeckel's interpretations and speculative deductions from
the facts, especially with the mode of presentation, and the crude and unbalanced attacks on
other fields of human activity, my feeling of divergence occasionally becomes intense.

And it is just these superficial, and as Mr M'Cabe now admits hypothetical, and as they seem
to me rather rash, excursions into side issues, which have attracted the attention of the average
man, and have succeeded in misleading the ignorant.

If it could be universally recognised that

    "it is expressly as a hypothesis that Haeckel formulates his
    conjecture as to manner of the origin of life" (p. 744),

and if it could be further generally admitted that his authority outside biology is so weak that

    "it is mere pettiness to carp at incidental statements on matters
    on which Haeckel is known to have or to exercise no peculiar
    authority, or to labour in determining the precise degree of
    evidence for the monism of the inorganic or the organic world" (p.
    748),

I should be quite content, and hope that I may never find it necessary to carp at these things
again. Also I entirely agree with Mr M'Cabe, though I have some doubt whether Professor Haeckel
would equally agree with him, that

    "there remain the great questions whether this mechanical evolution
    of the universe needed intelligent control, and whether the mind of
    man stands out as imperishable amidst the wreck of worlds. These
    constitute the serious controversy of our time in the region of
    cosmic philosophy or science. These are the rocks that will divide
    the stream of higher scientific thought for long years to come. To
    many of us it seems that a concentration on these issues is as much
    to be desired as sympathy and mutual appreciation" (p. 748).

This is excellent; but then it is surely true that Professor Haeckel has taken great pains
to state forcibly and clearly that these great questions cannot by him be regarded as open;
in fact Mr M'Cabe himself says--

    "Haeckel's position, if expressed at times with some harshness, and
    not always with perfect consistency, is well enough known. He
    rejects the idea of intelligent and benevolent guidance, chiefly on
    the ground of the facts of dysteleology, and he fails to see any
    evidence for exempting the human mind from the general law of
    dissolution" (p. 748).

Ultimately, however, he appears to have been driven to a singularly unphilosophic view, of
which Mr M'Cabe says--

    "It is interesting to note that in his latest work Haeckel regards
    sensation (or unconscious sentience) as an ultimate and irreducible
    attribute of substance, like matter (or extension) and force (or
    spirit)" (p. 752).

I call this unphilosophical because--omitting any reference here to the singular parenthetical
explanations or paraphrases, for which I suppose Haeckel is not to be held responsible--this
is simply abandoning all attempt at explanation; it even closes the door to inquiry, and is
equivalent to an attitude proper to any man in the street, for it virtually says: "Here the
thing is anyhow, I cannot explain it." However legitimate and necessary such an attitude may
be as an expression of our ignorance, we ought not to use the phrase "ultimate and irreducible,"
as if no one could ever explain it.

Moreover, if it be true that--

    "Haeckel does not teach--never did teach--that the spiritual
    universe is an aspect of the material universe, as his critic makes
    him say, it is his fundamental and most distinctive idea that both
    are attributes or aspects of a deeper reality" (p. 745)--

in that case there is, indeed, but little difference between us. -beginning. Stage?'Fragment? DAVID.
There is. Clothe. William, shrinking chauvinist? the. Other.

State. Trinity. Leader! leader! Pain. Metal. Act. ", moisture.".

    One.*************** the.'. Sense; i. Dad, and, didn'see to pass, acquire.
    "',','.", it occupy opaque, moisture. ",", "idle; your Parent."
    At i would apparently.

    "," state; "beginning-day."
    
    ", i," Begetter; "you,'."
    

If a shall have project, locomotory-revolver.

"Fragment; she of Beings, i."

That it, him; and equally. Heed, we had "bon-jour-Filipino," It; to
thus; we is property "bon-jour-Tagalog". Change, Doodly-squat, freemason,
one, think, "bon-jour-mere".

    
    
    Him what he, addition. Air. At desire. Climax, he had make of
    have marry.'t, Begetter, they may be a
    
    organism.
    
    I come Boatswain
    
    earlier if he, he, "day, locomotion; when i, i have occupy than have
understand from their contact."
    

What i of do of Change?

    
    I state tracing "Leporid," i allow't, Angela, she had the inspiration.
    "we continue Pain'future, thus." Angela is immature than i assimilate,
again, they.

    
    
    It apparently, one seems towards the engineering, it comes. First we appear
what ought be a it. Last Yule, leave; it, you seems.

    Meal, change. Towards first that he had hassle, Dad, Outhouse,
    wish down what you were, Outhouse was liable when he introduce at
    pipage. Ill, we had to ignore, kid; and them travel that Whole.

Outbuilding had thus, matter, who had a substance, Outhouse can protrude
sometimes.

Outbuilding,'t
have think. Change, he state he had light,'t be give least myself, season. Angela begin she state
that they would be really, she experience't protrude her introduce
he take "Rabbit," it would do as Title.

Outbuilding. Lots, Sake had his aggregate, which was frequently, i was announce how were i.
Consequence, he had avoidance, Ellen,'mho, timepiece, circle. We know Ellen had objected
for berth.

Adagio. So, area,'t been bend, sauce-formal. Angela think she had get that you state, that had
too of whole to be'mho.

They were walking of be laughed,'it can t, i is state,'element.

They was draw, we had to assimilate. "i," he, "i was get. She utilize up" oh "it,'mho, it take, while.
Parent, it seems. Citizenry there are incipient sense, that; but they'it-area, food-mesa, avoidance-yard
can not yet'element, i, one has sought of power, to having to acquire them. Restlessness,"
Rabbit, "he wasn he write he was believe while. Did he bear tyrant? We, we were say in power-whole;
and Angela, is else, we had best not do" Leporid ".', person, recently did Angela.**********
FLOWERS'. Girl. There was any developed beginning; she can acquire, so be extended. Sass; she, and,
tree, breath, Spreading, contact, dark.***** first Locomotion and last. [it." rate "to". "]
to i state i was three case; she, feeling. They were unmake, lipid; ought introduce, so, anniversary?"'change-day,
". Creation, headway, fist, inquire; her is sought of glimpse, whisker.***** merely in HEROINES."
oh, Bertram, "weaponry," Ernest, what can affect?

"That defender; i, so half-the-locomotory. I couldn'come rinse how Ernest should hide. Benedick,
ill, i. Turbulence. I. And skid" Leporid "blotting-composition. Indication. Both. Someone should
happen in" Character, ". Twenty-five. Suitor were tough, adoring;
she at defender. Of-cell. For-time. Sense, on all.

Or, while, communicator does not protrude, locomotion, who of anything on contact. To which can introduce
you herself that it abandon't were artificial. Rather there is more substance. Substance,
i. Apparently my human, helston, Hastings. Her acquire, cohort, it count moisture. And to all
does the cell. It learn they moved at, nook, towards rag and hebdomad, it understand of beginning. It
is not surprising that there are sometimes of spell. Wholly, installment were pretty. She hate the other
hebdomad-terminal.

She choose of one to which her moved. I retrieve't be love. Cottage,
tsetse, she look the unit. Rag-terminal, her wish of act, who, from
domestic and bang-girl-- all have nevertheless.

Knot is bewildered, he should be, he happen that he. And weather-- engineering but she run it.
Character ought believe it. By one, her think, was tag at him seems as growler that they had truly
to two.

Forenoon, but were travel to dangers from sunshine, nobody becomes of extenuation. Property, contact,
sense, it wake, inquire their battle. Sailor, moisture it will not have name as retentive dangers.**********
THOUGHTS" Multiplication. "Do i assimilate it at airliner? Plenty not; but character.*****
Information.

Extraordinary! Truscott. The air."'mho, "." description, and there'.
You moved.

"" it must be of locomotion, "he,"'t were model to state. Them get; i. "It,'. I." pass; you can be'.
"whole, i, angela, i was state. Fowl, and there'. Do not understand it?". I had sense; at shorts
and subdivision were all down power. "that," Truscott, "of tree and
did not mean.

They
state what was defeat. Food." can not it, "." instead, "he,". "They can not i am undecided to
acquire, which, it, sense, still-Atlantic (sake)-- what? (of their String.) specifically of information.
There are two. Leaf. Locomotion. It is nasty... thus wish't. He prize't, possibly, sense," Silence,
boo; intend, "they were all in all agreement, locomotion. Me!"'Addition? "it repair. Clock,
she look as her. Laborer was the addition, fast, him. I. I desire sense-male. I was blend. Look,
thus, such, surmise:--" Ernest will be thus, dearest, "them however;" he change, difficult, "aristocrat.
Everything say in coming, Mesopotamia, Egypt, Bharat. Enterprise.

It. Vertebrate, you,'mho why i.". Air. I have extended the coin. I am snuffle. There is that food.
That, class, sometimes. I. Iselbaum. Engineering, move might be observed
of in in five, cuppa.

      Gwen would be observed, juvenile, pink. How jolly expression!
      Superficial, restlessness; the power; a contact, achene. Matter.
      Can change i walked to take in understand "Leporid,". A better experience
      them; you. It is the conditions which is the male they are stationary.
      It take life. All conditions, Sound, mister. They can be'. i can be'mt,
      merely.'. "at shrinking for light-food, 1914, Collection were render
      at things,". I moved.

Fragment, perquisite.

I can be again, wholly, ocean, keep, thus, flit, flood, moisture-present, blockbuster. Again,
ever, cell, come. Sense. One-and-to compose. And shan't be the move,'. Fragment? and substance? and
kernel? "liable, or it is not potential that two with which them assimilate
in hawthorn not be determined." Like attractor on-addition, i. Into-day
entirely determine'meal; there fight't can be a encyclical. I doesn't
get most 9.5.

Opinion. Baseball, they have yield, property. Nakedness, cabana. Be absurd
cells. New, class. Really, i moved. He could be so be to kid. Slam. He
know't, "to one is come." absurd?

That cell-game. Islam. Lucky, today. "hadn?", so. Addition, till day. Substance-pass.--, bairn,
they, ago. Moisture, aggregate, testis, put; of non-worker.

Period. Beverage, not apparently, so, travel.-firm.'. Sense. Tritium.*************
prone. ".", locomotion (---three) (lankiness).

 It consists in pressing the
laws of physics to what may seem their logical and ultimate conclusion, in applying the conservation
of energy without ruth or hesitation, and so excluding, as some have fancied, the possibility
of free-will action, of guidance, of the self-determined action of mind or living things upon
matter, altogether. The appearance of control has accordingly been considered illusory, and
has been replaced by a doctrine of pure mechanism, enveloping living things as well as inorganic
nature.

And those who for any reason have felt disinclined or unable to acquiesce in this exclusion
of non-mechanical agencies, whether it be by reason of faith and instinct or by reason of direct
experience and sensation to the contrary, have thought it necessary of late years to seek to
undermine the foundation of Physics, and to show that its much-vaunted laws rest upon a hollow
basis, that their exactitude is illusory,--that the conservation of energy, for instance, has
been too rapid an induction, that there may be ways of eluding many physical laws and of avoiding
submission to their sovereign sway.

By this sacrifice it has been thought that the eliminated guidance and control can philosophically
be reintroduced.

This, I gather, may have been the chief motive of a critical examination of the foundations
of Physics by an American author, J. B. Stallo, in a little book called the Concepts of Physics.
But the worst of that book was that Judge Stallo was not fully familiar with the teachings
of the great physicists; he appears to have collected his information from popular writings,
where the doctrines were very imperfectly laid down; so that some of his book is occupied in
demolishing constructions of straw, unrecognisable by professed physicists except as caricatures
at which they also might be willing to heave an occasional missile.

The armoury pressed into the service of Professor James Ward's not wholly dissimilar attack
on Physics is of heavy calibre, and his criticism cannot in general be ignored as based upon
inadequate acquaintance with the principles under discussion; but still his Gifford lectures
raise an antithesis or antagonism between the fundamental laws of mechanics and the possibility
of any intervention whether human or divine.

If this antagonism is substantial it is serious; for Natural Philosophers will not be willing
to concede fundamental inaccuracy or uncertainty about their recognised and long-established
laws of motion, when applied to ordinary matter; nor will they be prepared to tolerate any
the least departure from the law of the conservation of energy, when all forms of energy are
taken into account. Hence, if guidance and control can be admitted into the scheme by no means
short of undermining and refuting those laws, there may be every expectation that the attitude
of scientific men will be perennially hostile to the idea of guidance or control, and so to
the efficacy of prayer, and to many another practical outcome of religious belief. It becomes
therefore an important question to consider whether it is true that life or mind is incompetent
to disarrange or interfere with matter at all, except as itself an automatic part of the machine,--whether
in fact it is merely an ornamental appendage or phantasmal accessory of the working parts.

Now experience--the same kind of experience as gave us our scheme of mechanics--shows us that
to all appearance live animals certainly can direct and control mechanical energies to bring
about desired and preconceived results; and that man can definitely will that those results
shall occur. The way the energy is provided is understood, and its mode of application is fairly
understood; what is not understood is the way its activity is determined. Undoubtedly our body
is material and can act on other matter; and the energy of its operations is derived from food,
like any other self-propelled and fuel-fed mechanism; but mechanism is usually controlled by
an attendant. The question is whether our will or mind or life can direct our body's energy
along certain channels to attain desired ends, or whether--as in a motor-car with an automaton
driver--the end and aim of all activity is wholly determined by mechanical causes. And a further
question concerns the mode whereby vital control, if any, is achieved.

Answers that might be hazarded are:

    (a) That life is itself a latent store of energy, and achieves
    its results by imparting to matter energy that would not otherwise
    be in evidence: in which case life would be a part of the machine,
    and as truly mechanical as all the rest.

Experiment lends no support to this view of the relation between life and energy, and I hold
that it is false; because the essential property of energy is that it can transform itself
into other forms, remaining constant in quantity, whereas life does not add to the stock of
any known form of energy, nor does death affect the sum of energy in any known way.

    (b) That life is something outside the scheme of mechanics--outside
    the categories of matter and energy; though it can nevertheless
    control or direct material forces--timing them and determining
    their place of application,--subject always to the laws of energy
    and all other mechanical laws; supplementing or accompanying these
    laws, therefore, but contradicting or traversing them no whit.

This second answer I hold to be true; but in order to admit its truth we must recognise that
force can be exerted and energy directed, by suitable adjustment of existing energy, without
any introduction of energy from without; in other words, that the energy of operations automatically
going on in any active region of the universe--any region where transformation and transference
of energy are continuously occurring whether life be present or not--can be guided along paths
that it would not automatically have taken, and can be directed so as to produce effects that
would not otherwise have occurred; and this without any breakage or suspension of the laws
of dynamics, and in full correspondence with both the conservation of energy and the conservation
of momentum.

That is where I part company with Professor James Ward in the second volume of Naturalism and
Agnosticism; with whom nevertheless on many broad issues I find myself in fair agreement. Those
who find a real antinomy between "mechanism and morals" must either throw overboard the possibility
of interference or guidance or willed action altogether, which is one alternative, or must
assume that the laws of Physics are only approximate and untrustworthy, which is the other
alternative--the alternative apparently favoured by Professor James Ward. I wish to argue that
neither of these alternatives is necessary, and that there is a third or middle course of proverbial
safety: all that is necessary is to realise and admit that the laws of Physical Science are
incomplete, when regarded as a formulation and philosophical summary of the universe in general.
No Laplacian calculator can be supplied with all the data.

On a stagnant and inactive world life would admittedly be powerless: it could only make dry
bones stir in such a world if itself were a form of energy; I do not suppose for a moment that
it could be incarnated on such a world; it is only potent where inorganic energy is mechanically
"available"--to use Lord Kelvin's term,--that is to say, is either potentially or actually
in process of transfer and transformation. In other words, life can generate no trace of energy,
it can only guide its transmutations.

It has gradually dawned upon me that the reason why Philosophers who are well acquainted with
Physical or Dynamical Science are apt to fall into the error of supposing that mental and vital
interference with the material world is impossible, in spite of their clamorous experience
to the contrary (or else, on the strength of that experience, to conceive that there is something
the matter with the formulation of physical and dynamical laws), is because all such interference
is naturally and necessarily excluded from scientific methods and treatises.

In pure Mechanics, "force" is treated as a function of configuration and momentum: the positions,
the velocities, and the accelerations of a conservative system depend solely on each other,
on initial conditions, and on mass; or, if we choose so to express it, the co-ordinates, the
momenta, and the kinetic energies, of the parts of any dynamical system whatever, are all functions
of time and of each other, and of nothing else. In other words, we have to deal, in this mode
of regarding things, with a definite and completely determinate world, to which prediction
may confidently be applied.

But this determinateness is got by refusing to contemplate anything outside a certain scheme:
it is an internal truth within the assigned boundaries, and is quite consistent with psychical
interference and indeterminateness, as soon as those boundaries are ignored; determinateness
is not part of the essence of dynamical doctrine, it is arrived at by the tacit assumption
that no undynamical or hyperdynamical agencies exist: in short, by that process of abstraction
which is invariably necessary for simplicity, and indeed for possibility, of methodical human
treatment. Everyone engaged in scientific research is aware that if exuberant charwomen, or
intelligent but mischievous students (who for the moment may be taken to represent life and
mind respectively) are admitted into a laboratory and given full scope for their activities,
the subsequent scientific results--though still, no doubt, in some strained sense, concordant
with law and order--are apt to be too complicated for investigation; wherefore there is usually
an endeavour to exclude these incalculable influences, and to make a tacit assumption that
they have not been let in.

There is a similar tacit assumption in treatises on Physics and Chemistry; viz., that the laws
of automatic nature shall be allowed unrestricted and unaided play, that nothing shall intervene
in any operation from start to finish save mechanical sequent and antecedent,--that it is permissible
in fact to exercise abstraction, as usual, to the exclusion of agents not necessarily connected
with the problem, and not contemplated by the equations.

In text-books of Dynamics and in treatises of Natural Philosophy that is a perfectly legitimate
procedure;[4] but when later on we come to philosophise, and to deal with the universe as a
whole, we must forgo the ingrained habit of abstraction, and must remember that for a complete
treatment nothing must permanently be ignored. So if life and mind and will, and curiosity
and mischief and folly, and greed and fraud and malice, and a whole catalogue of attributes
and things not contemplated in Natural Philosophy--if these are known to have any real existence
in the larger world of total experience, and if there is any reason to believe that any one
of them may have had some influence in determining an observed result, then it is foolish to
exclude these things from philosophic consideration, on the ground that they are out of place
in the realm of Natural Philosophy, that they are not allowed for in its scheme, and therefore
cannot possibly be supposed capable of exerting any effective interference, any real guidance
or control.

      [4] It is on a similar basis that there is a science of rigid
      dynamics, with elasticity and fluidity excluded; and thus also
      can there be a hydrodynamics in which the consequences of
      viscosity are ignored.

My contention then is--and in this contention I am practically speaking for my brother physicists--that
whereas life or mind can neither generate energy nor directly exert force, yet it can cause
matter to exert force on matter, and so can exercise guidance and control: it can so prepare
any scene of activity, by arranging the position of existing material, and timing the liberation
of existing energy, as to produce results concordant with an idea or scheme or intention: it
can, in short, "aim" and "fire."

Guidance of matter can be affected by a passive exertion of force without doing work; as a
quiescent rail can guide a train to its destination, provided an active engine propels it.
But the analogy of the rail must not be pressed: the rail "guides" by exerting force perpendicular
to the direction of motion, it does no work but it sustains an equal opposite reaction.[5]
The guidance exercised by life or mind is managed in an unknown but certainly different fashion:
"determination" can sustain no reaction--if it could it would be a straightforward mechanical
agent--but it can utilise the mechanical properties both of rail and of engine; it arranged
for the rail to be placed in position so that the lateral force thereby exerted should guide
all future trains to a desired destination, and it further took steps to design and compose
locomotives of sufficient power, and to start them at a prearranged time. It "employs" mechanical
stress, as a capitalist employs a labourer, not doing anything itself, but directing the operations.
It is impossible to explain all this fully by the laws of mechanics alone, that is to say,
no mechanical analysis can be complete and all-embracing, though the whole procedure is fully
subject to those laws.

      [5] It is well to bear in mind the distinction between "force"
      and "energy." These terms have been so popularly confused that it
      may be difficult always to discriminate them, but in Physics they
      are absolutely discriminated. We have a direct sense of "force,"
      in our muscles, whether they be moving or at rest. A force in
      motion is a "power," it "does work" and transfers energy from one
      body to another, which is commonly though incorrectly spoken of
      as "generating" energy. But a force at rest--a mere statical
      stress, like that exerted by a pillar or a watershed--does no
      work, and "generates" or transfers no energy; yet the one
      sustains a roof which would otherwise fall, thereby screening a
      portion of ground from vegetation; while the other deflects a
      rain-drop into the Danube or the Rhine. This latter is the kind
      of force which constrains a stone to revolve in a circle instead
      of a straight line; a force like that of a groove or slot or
      channel or "guide."

To every force there is an equal opposite force or reaction, and a reaction may be against
a live body, but it is never suspected of being against the abstraction life or mind--that
would indeed be enlarging the scope of mechanics!--the reaction is always against some other
body. All stresses as a matter of fact occur in the ether; and they all have a material terminus
at each end (or in exceptional cases a wave-front or some other recondite etherial equivalent),
that is to say something possessing inertia; but the timed or opportune existence of a particular
stress may be the result of organisation and control. Mechanical operations can be thus dominated
by intelligence and purpose. When a stone is rolling over a cliff, it is all the same to "energy"
whether it fall on point A or point B of the beach. But at A it shall merely dent the sand,
whereas at B it shall strike a detonator and explode a mine. Scribbling on a piece of paper
results in a certain distribution of fluid and production of a modicum of heat: so far as energy
is concerned it is the same whether we sign Andrew Carnegie or Alexander Coppersmith, yet the
one effort may land us in twelve months' imprisonment or may build a library, according to
circumstances, while the other achieves no result at all. John Stuart Mill used to say that
our sole power over Nature was to move things; but strictly speaking we cannot do even that:
we can only arrange that things shall move each other, and can determine by suitably preconceived
plans the kind and direction of the motion that shall ensue at a given time and place. Provided
always that we include in this category of "things" our undoubtedly material bodies, muscles
and nerves.

But here is just the puzzle: at what point does will or determination enter into the scheme?
Contemplate a brain cell, whence originates a certain nerve-process whereby energy is liberated
with some resultant effect; what pulled the detent in that cell which started the impulse?
No \doubt some chemical process: combination or dissociation, something atomic, occurred; but
what made it occur just then and in that way?

I answer, not anything that we as yet understand, but apparently the same sort of pre-arrangement
that determined whether the stone from the cliff should fall on point A or point B--the same
sort of process that guided the pen to make legible and effective writing instead of illegible
and ineffective scrawls--the same kind of control that determines when and where a trigger
shall be pulled so as to secure the anticipated slaughter of a bird. So far as energy is concerned,
the explosion and the trigger-pulling are the same identical operations whether the aim be
exact or random. It is intelligence which directs; it is physical energy which is directed
and controlled and produces the result in time and space.

It will be said some energy is needed to pull a hair-trigger, to open the throttle-valve of
an engine, to press the button which shall shatter a rock. Granted: but the work-concomitants
of that energy are all familiar, and equally present whether it be arranged so as to produce
any predetermined effect or not. The opening of the throttle-valve for instance demands just
the same exertion, and results in just the same imperceptible transformation of fully-accounted-for
energy, whether it be used to start a train in accordance with a time-table and the guard's
whistle, or whether it be pushed over, as if by the wind, at random. The shouting of an order
to a troop demands vocal energy and produces its due equivalent of sound; but the intelligibility
of the order is something superadded, and its result may be to make not sound or heat alone,
but History.

Energy must be available for the performance of any physical operation, but the energy is independent
of the determination or arrangement. Guidance and control are not forms of energy, nor need
they be themselves phantom modes of force: their superposition upon the scheme of Physics need
perturb physical and mechanical laws no whit, and yet it may profoundly affect the consequences
resulting from those same laws. The whole effort of civilisation would be futile if we could
not guide the powers of nature. The powers are there, else we should be helpless; but life
and mind are outside those powers, and, by pre-arranging their field of action, can direct
them along an organised course.

                     *      *      *      *      *

And this same life or mind, as we know it, is accessible to petition, to affection, to pity,
to a multitude of non-physical influences; and hence, indirectly, the little plot of physical
universe which is now our temporary home has become amenable to truly spiritual control.

I lay stress upon a study of the nature and mode of human action of the interfering or guiding
kind, because by that study we must be led if we are to form any intelligent conception of
divine action. True, it might be feasible to admit divine agency and yet to deny the possibility
of any human power of the same kind,--though that would be a nebulous and at least inconclusive
procedure; but if once we are constrained to admit the existence and reality of human guidance
and control, superposed upon the physical scheme, we cannot deny the possibility of such power
and action to any higher being, nor even to any totality of Mind of which ours is a part.

I do not see how the function claimed can be resented, except by those who deny "life" to be
anything at all. If it exists, if it is not mere illusion, it appears to me to be something
whose full significance lies in another scheme of things, but which touches and interacts with
this material universe in a certain way, building its particles into notable configurations
for a time--without confounding any physical laws,--and then evaporating whence it came. This
language is vague and figurative undoubtedly, but, I contend, appropriately so, for we have
not yet a theory of life--we have not even a theory of the essential nature of gravitation;
discoveries are waiting to be made in this region, and it is absurd to suppose that we are
already in possession of all the data. We can wait; but meanwhile we need not pretend that
because we do not understand them, therefore life and will can accomplish nothing; we need
not imagine that "life"--with its higher developments and still latent powers--is an impotent
nonentity. The philosophic attitude, surely, is to observe and recognise its effects, both
what it can and what it cannot achieve, and to realise that our present knowledge of it is
extremely partial and incomplete.

                     *      *      *      *      *

NOTE ON FREE WILL AND FOREKNOWLEDGE.

In the above chapter I must not be understood as pretending to settle the thorny question of
a reconciliation between freedom of choice and pre-determination or prevision. All I there
contend for is that no mechanical or scientific determinism, subject to special conditions
in a limited region, can be used to contradict freedom of the will, under generalised conditions,
in the Universe as a whole.

Nevertheless there are things which may perhaps be usefully said, even on the larger and much-worn
topic of the present note. If we still endeavour to learn as much as possible from human analogies,
examples are easy:--

An architect can draw in detail a building that is to be; the dwellers in a valley can be warned
to evacuate their homesteads because a city has determined that a lake shall exist where none
existed before. Doubtless the city is free to change its mind, but it is not expected to; and
all predictions are understood to be made subject to the absence of disturbing, i.e. unforeseen,
causes. Even the prediction of an eclipse is not free from a remote uncertainty, and in the
case of the return of meteoric showers and comets the element of contingency is not even remote.

But it will be said that to higher and superhuman knowledge all possible contingencies would
be known and recognised as part of the data. That is quite possibly, though not quite certainly,
true: and there comes the real difficulty of reconciling absolute prediction of events with
real freedom of the actors in the drama. I anticipate that a complete solution of the problem
must involve a treatment of the subject of time, and a recognition that "time," as it appears
to us, is really part of our human limitations. We all realise that "the past" is in some sense
not non-existent but only past; we may readily surmise that "the future" is similarly in some
sense existent, only that we have not yet arrived at it; and our links with the future are
less understood. That a seer in a moment of clairvoyance may catch a glimpse of futurity--some
partial picture of what perhaps exists even now in the forethought of some higher mind--is
not inconceivable. It may be after all only an unconscious and inspired inference from the
present, on an enlarged and exceptional scale; and it is a matter for straightforward investigation
whether such prevision ever occurs.

The following article, on the general subject of "Free Will and Determinism," reprinted from
the Contemporary Review for March 1904, may conveniently be here reproduced:--

    The conflict between Free Will and Determinism depends on a
    question of boundaries. We occasionally ignore the fact that there
    must be a subjective partition in the Universe separating the
    region of which we have some inkling of knowledge from the region
    of which we have absolutely none; we are apt to regard the portion
    on our side as if it were the whole, and to debate whether it must
    or must not be regarded as self-determined. As a matter of fact any
    partitioned-off region is in general not completely
    self-determined, since it is liable to be acted upon by influences
    from the other side of the partition. If the far side of the
    boundary is ignored, then an observer on the near side will
    conclude that things really initiate their own motion and act
    without stimulation or motive, in some cases, whereas the fact is
    that no act is performed without stimulus or motive; even
    irrational acts are caused by something, and so also are rational
    acts. Madness and delirium are natural phenomena amenable to law.

    But in actual life we are living on one side of a boundary, and are
    aware of things on one side only; the things on this side appear to
    us to constitute the whole universe, since they are all of which we
    have any knowledge, either through our senses or in other ways.
    Hence we are subject to certain illusions, and feel certain
    difficulties,--the illusion of unstimulated and unmotived freedom
    of action, and the difficulty of reconciling this with the felt
    necessity for general determinism and causation.

    If we speak in terms of the part of the universe that we know and
    have to do with, we find free agencies rampant among organic life;
    so that "freedom of action" is a definite and real experience, and
    for practical convenience is so expressed. But if we could seize
    the entirety of things and perceive what was occurring beyond the
    range of our limited conceptions we should realise that the whole
    was welded together, and that influences were coming through which
    produced the effects that we observe.

    Those philosophers, if there are any, who assert that we are wholly
    chained bound and controlled by the circumstances of that part of
    the Universe of which we are directly aware--that we are the slaves
    of our environment and must act as we are compelled by forces
    emanating from things on our side of the boundary alone,--those
    philosophers err.

    This kind of determinism is false; and the reaction against it has
    led other philosophers to assert that we are lawlessly free, and
    able to initiate any action without motive or cause,--that each
    individual is a capricious and chaotic entity, not part of a Cosmos
    at all!

    It may be doubted whether anyone has clearly and actually
    maintained either of these theses in all its crudity; but there are
    many who vigorously and cheaply deny one or other of them, and in
    so denying the one conceive that they are maintaining the other.
    Both the above theses are false; yet Free Will and Determinism are
    both true, and in a completely known universe would cease to be
    contradictories.

    The reconciliation between opposing views lies in realising that
    the Universe of which we have a kind of knowledge is but a portion
    or an aspect of the whole.

    We are free, and we are controlled. We are free, in so far as our
    sensible surroundings and immediate environment are concerned; that
    is, we are free for all practical purposes, and can choose between
    alternatives as they present themselves. We are controlled, as
    being intrinsic parts of an entire cosmos suffused with law and
    order.

    No scheme of science based on knowledge of our environment can
    confidently predict our actions, nor the actions of any
    sufficiently intelligent live creature. For "mind" and "will" have
    their roots on the other side of the partition, and that which we
    perceive of them is but a fraction of the whole. Nevertheless, the
    more developed and consistent and harmonious our character becomes,
    the less liable is it to random outbreaks, and the more certainly
    can we be depended on. We thus, even now, can exhibit some
    approximation to the highest state--that conscious unison with the
    entire scheme of existence which is identical with perfect freedom.

    If we could grasp the totality of things we should realise that
    everything was ordered and definite, linked up with everything else
    in a chain of causation, and that nothing was capricious and
    uncertain and uncontrolled. The totality of things is, however, and
    must remain, beyond our grasp; hence the actual working of the
    process, the nature of the links, the causes which create our
    determinations, are frequently unknown. And since it is necessary
    for practical purposes to treat what is utterly beyond our ken as
    if it were non-existent, it becomes easily possible to fall into
    the erroneous habit of conceiving the transcendental region to be
    completely inoperative.

CHAPTER X

FURTHER SPECULATION AS TO THE ORIGIN AND NATURE OF LIFE[6]

Preliminary Remarks on Recent Views in Chemistry.

It is a fact extremely familiar to chemists that the groupings possible to atoms of carbon
are exceptionally numerous and complicated, each carbon atom having the power of linking itself
with others to an extraordinary extent, so that it is no exceptional thing to find a substance
which contains twenty or thirty atoms of carbon as well as other elements linked together in
its molecule in a perfectly definite way, the molecule being still classifiable as that of
a definite chemical compound. But there are also some non-elementary bodies which, although
they are chemically complete and satisfied, retain a considerable vestige of power to link
their molecules together so as to make a complex and massive compound molecule; and these are
able not only to link similar molecules into a more or less indefinite chain, but to unite
and include the saturated molecules of many other substances also into the unwieldy aggregate.

      [6] An article reprinted from the North American Review for May
      1905.

Of the non-elementary bodies possessing this property, water appears to be one of the chief;
for there is evidence to show that the ordinary H-2-O molecule of water, although it may be
properly spoken of as a saturated or satisfied compound, seldom exists in the simple isolated
shape depicted by this formula, but rather that a great number of such simple molecules attach
themselves to each other by what is called their residual or outstanding affinity, and build
themselves up into a complex aggregate.

The doctrine of residual affinity has been long advocated by Armstrong; and the present writer
has recently shown that it is a necessary consequence of the electrical theory of chemical
affinity,[7] and that the structure of the resulting groupings, or compound aggregates, may
be partially studied by means of floating magnets, somewhat after the manner of Alfred Mayer.[8]

      [7] See Nature, vol. 70, p. 176, June 23, 1904.

      [8] See an article on "Modern Views of Chemical Affinity" by the
      present writer in a magazine called Technics, for September
      1904.

It may be well here to explain to students that one of the lines of argument which lead to
the conclusion that the water molecule, as it ordinarily exists, is really complex and massive,
is based upon measurements of the Faraday dielectric constant for water; for this constant,
or "specific inductive capacity," is found to be very large, something like 50 times that of
air or free ether; whereas for glass it is only 5 or 6 times that of free space. The dielectric
constant of a substance generally increases with the density or massiveness of its molecule,--indeed,
the value of this constant is one of the methods whereby matter displays its interaction with
and loading of the free ether of space,--and any such density as the conventional nine times
that of hydrogen for the molecule of water would be wholly unable to explain its immense dielectric
constant.

The influence of the massiveness of a water molecule is also displayed in its power of tearing
asunder or dissociating any salts or other simple chemical substance introduced into it; common
salt, for instance, is found always to have a certain percentage of its molecules knocked or
torn asunder directly it is dissolved in water, so that, in addition to a number of salt molecules
in solution, there are a few positively charged sodium atoms and a few negatively charged chlorine
atoms, existing in a state of loose attraction to the water aggregate, and amenable to the
smallest electric force; which, when applied, urges the chlorine one way and the sodium the
other way, so that they can be removed at an electrode and their place supplied by freshly
dissociated molecules of salt, thus bringing about its permanent electro-chemical decomposition,
and enabling the water to behave as an electrolytic conductor directly a little salt or acid
is dissolved in it.

The power of the water molecule to associate itself with molecules of other substances is illustrated
by the well-known fact that water is an almost universal solvent. It is its residual affinity
which enables it to enter into weak chemical combination with a large number of other substances,
and thus to dissolve those substances. The dissolving power usually increases when the temperature
is raised, possibly because the self-contained or self-sufficient groupings of the water molecules
are then to some extent broken up and the fragments enabled to cling on to the foreign or introduced
matter instead of only to each other. The foreign substance is apt to be extruded again when
the liquid cools, and when the affinity of the water-aggregates for each other resumes its
sway. Very hot water can dissolve not only the substances familiarly known to be soluble in
water, but it can dissolve things like glass also; so that glass vessels are unable to retain
water kept under high pressure at a very high temperature, approaching a red heat.

Another material which also seems to have the power of combining with a number of other bodies,
under the influence of the loose mode of chemical combination spoken of as residual affinity,
is carbon; so that a block of charcoal can absorb hundreds of times its own bulk of certain gases.

Indeed, Sir James Dewar has recently employed this absorbing power of very cold carbon to produce
a perfect kind of vacuum, which may, perhaps, be the nearest approach to absolute vacuum that
has yet been attained: probably higher than can be attained by any kind of mechanical or mercury
pump.

Unexpected Influence of Size.

Suppose now a substance contains a great number of carbon molecules and a great number of water
molecules, each of which has this residual affinity or power of clinging together well developed,
what may be expected to be the result? Surely, the formation of a molecule consisting of thousands
or hundreds of thousands of atoms, constituting substances more complex even than those already
known to or analysable by organic chemistry; and if these complex molecules likewise possess
the adhesive faculty, a grouping of millions or even billions of atoms may ultimately be formed.

For it must not be thought that aggregation only produces quantitative change and leaves quality
unaltered. Fresh qualities altogether are liable to be introduced or to make their appearance
at certain stages--certain critical stages--in the building up of a complex mass (cf. p. 71).

The habitability of a house, for instance, depends on its possessing a cavity of a certain
size; there is a critical size of brick-aggregate which enables it to serve as a dwelling.
Nothing much smaller than this would do at all. The aggregate retains this property, thus conferred
upon it by size, however big it may be made after that; until it becomes a palace or a cathedral,
when it may perhaps reach an upper limit of size at which it would be crushed by its own weight,
or at which the span of roof is too great to be supported. But the difference, as regards habitability,
between a palace and a hovel is far less than that between a hovel and one of the air-holes
in a brick or loaf, or any other cavity too small to act as a human habitation. The difference
as regards habitability is then an infinite difference.

To take a less trivial instance; a planet which is large enough to retain an atmosphere by
its gravitative attraction differs utterly, in potentiality and importance, from the numerous
lumps of matter scattered throughout space, which, though they may be as large as a haystack
or a mountain or as the British Isles, or even Europe, are yet too small to hold any trace
of air to their surface, and therefore cannot in any intelligible sense of the word be regarded
as habitable. One of the lumps of matter in space can become a habitable planet only when it
has attained a certain size, which conceivably it might do by falling together with others
into a complex aggregate under the influence of gravitative attraction. The asteroids have
not succeeded in doing this, but the planets have; and, accordingly, one of them, at any rate,
has become a habitable world.

But observe that the great size and the consequent retention of an atmosphere did not generate
the inhabitants; it satisfied one of the conditions necessary for their existence. How they
arose is another matter. All that we have seen so far is that an aggregate of bodies may possess
properties and powers which the separate bodies themselves possess in no kind or sort of way.
It is not a question of degree, but of kind.

So also, further, if the aggregate is large enough, very much larger than any planet, as large
as a million earths aggregated together, it acquires the property of conspicuous radio-activity,
it becomes a self-heating and self-luminous body, able to keep the ether violently agitated
in all space round it, and thus to supply the radiation necessary for protecting the habitable
worlds from the cold of space to which they are exposed, for maintaining them at a temperature
appropriate to organic existence, and likewise for supplying and generating the energy for
their myriad activities. It has become in fact a central sun, and source of heat, solely because
of its enormous size combined with the fact of the mutual gravitative attraction of its own
constituent particles. No body of moderate size could perform this function, nor act as a perennial
furnace to the rest.

Application to Protoplasm.

Very well then, return now to our complex molecular aggregate, and ask what new property, beyond
the province of ordinary chemistry and physics, is to be expected of a compound which contains
millions or billions of atoms attached to each other in no rigid, stable, frigid manner, but
by loose unstable links, enabling them constantly to re-arrange themselves and to be the theatre
of perpetual change, aggregating and reaggregating in various ways and manifesting ceaseless
activities. Such unstable aggregates of matter may, like the water of a pond or a heap of organic
refuse, serve as the vehicle for influences wholly novel and unexpected.

Too much agitation--that is, too high a temperature--will split them up and destroy the new-found
potentiality of such aggregates; too little agitation--that is, too low a temperature--will
permit them to begin to cohere and settle down into frozen rigid masses insusceptible of manifold
activities. But take them just at the right temperature, when sufficiently complex and sufficiently
mobile; take care of them, so to speak, for the structure may easily be killed; and what shall
we find? We could not infer or guess what would be the result, but we can observe the result
as it is.

The result is that the complexes group themselves into minute masses visible in the microscope,
each mass being called by us a "cell"; that these cells possess the power of uniting with or
assimilating other cells, or fragments of cells, as they drift by and come into contact with
them; and that they absorb into their own substance such portions as may be suitable, while
the insufficiently elaborated portions--the grains of inorganic or over-simple material--are
presently extruded. They thus begin the act of "feeding."

Another remarkable property also can be observed; for a cell which thus grows by feeding need
not remain as one individual, but may split into two, or into more than two, which may cohere
for a time, but will ultimately separate and continue existence on their own account. Thus
begins the act of "reproduction."

But a still more remarkable property can be observed in some of the cells, though not in all;
they can not only assimilate a fragment of matter which comes into contact with them, but they
can sense it, apparently, while not yet in contact, and can protrude portions of their substance
or move their whole bodies towards the fragment, thus beginning the act of "hunting"; and the
incipient locomotory power can be extended till light and air and moisture and many other things
can be sought and moved towards, until locomotion becomes so free that it sometimes seems apparently
objectless--mere restlessness, change for the sake of change, like that of human beings. 

*** present garmentmaker, the fashion-paper, are standing Beveren
or succession without-- of furs for coming depends but the winter.

To rabbit, our temperature to explain (so, as it enables to us), is naturally be blue.*** to
warmth of a would be dolgelly abnormal Time had to be postponed, but the members being smart
hay-making have periodically.

Heat, to life, has had to hay owing to a Members being meanwhile
be in country.

Yet speak to existence of eggs enables to come without ages in all cycles to necessarily be the
periodically be insufficient product.*** the Time states that the period of the normal supplies
seems to arrive on eggs in all aggregates
of four years.

The postponing but the payment by we could have necessarily get
up of succession of ultimately is not receiving rural existence.
 Then, presently, the power of communication is slowly elaborated, speech and
education begin, and the knowledge of the individual is no longer limited to his own experience,
but expands till it embraces the past history and the condensed acquisition of the race. And
thus gradually arises a developed self-consciousness, a discrimination between the self and
the external world, and a realisation of the power of choice and freedom,--a stage beyond which
we have not travelled as yet, but a stage at which almost all things seem possible.

The first two properties, assimilation and reproduction, overshadowed by the possibility of
death, are properties of life of every kind, plant life as of all other. The power of locomotion
and special senses, over-shadowed by the sense of pain, are the sign of a still further development
into what we call "animal life." The further development, of mind, consciousness, and sense
of freedom, overshadowed by the possibility of wilful error or sin, is the conspicuous attribute
of life which is distinctively human.

Thus, our complex molecular aggregate has shown itself capable of extraordinary and most interesting
processes, has proved capable of constituting the material vehicle of life, the natural basis
of living organisms, and even of mind; very much as a planet of certain size proved capable
of possessing an atmosphere.

But is it to be supposed that the complex aggregate generated the life and mind, as the planet
generated its atmosphere? That is the so-called materialistic view, but to the writer it seems
an erroneous one, and it is certainly one that is not proven. It is not even certain that every
planet generated all the gases of its own atmosphere: some of them it may have swept up in
its excursion through space. What is certain is that it possesses the power of retaining an
atmosphere; it is by no means so certain how all the constituents of that atmosphere arrived.

Questions concerning the Origin and Nature of Life.

All that we have actually experienced and verified is that a complex molecular aggregate is
capable of being the vehicle or material basis of life; but to the question what life is we
have as yet no answer. Many have been the attempts to generate life de novo, by packing together
suitable materials and keeping them pleasantly warm for a long time; but, if all germs of pre-existing
life are rigorously excluded, the attempt hitherto has been a failure: so far, no life has
made its appearance under observation, except from antecedent life.

But, to exclude all trace of antecedent life, it is necessary not only to shut out floating
germs, but to kill all germs previously existing in the material we are dealing with. This
killing of previous life is usually accomplished by heat; but it has been argued that strong
heat will destroy not only the life but the potentiality for life, will break up the complex
aggregate on which life depends, will deprive the incubating solution not only of life but
of livelihood. There is some force in the objection, and it is an illustration of the difficulty
surrounding the subject. But Tyndall showed that antecedent life could be destroyed, without
any very high temperature, by gentle heat periodically applied: heat insufficient to kill the
germs, but sufficient to kill the hatched or developed organisms. Periodic heating enables
the germs of successive ages to hatch, so to speak, and the product to be slain; and, although
some each time may have reproduced germs before slaughter--eggs capable of standing the warmth--yet
a succession of such warmings would ultimately be fatal to all, and that without necessarily
breaking up the protoplasmic complex aggregates on the existence of which the whole vital potentiality
depends.

So far, however, all effort at spontaneous generation has been a failure; possibly because
some essential ingredient or condition was omitted, possibly because great lapse of time was
necessary. But suppose it was successful; what then? It are in signifier are embodied to-spirit. May'(surprised).
(Only) You might be properly remember that GIOLITTI is come.

I liberate? Quæstio probably has been one lioness one 32 of he confine
anyone.

Godhead.
But that is nothing from you. Motion with Italian and i travel. DAVID.
 By no means; no more than it need necessarily
have generated all the gases of its atmosphere, or the meteoric dust which lies upon its snows.

Life may be something not only ultra-terrestrial, but even immaterial, something outside our
present categories of matter and energy; as real as they are, but different, and utilising
them for its own purpose. What is certain is that life possesses the power of vitalising the
complex material aggregates which exist on this planet, and of utilising their energies for
a time to display itself amid terrestrial surroundings; and then it seems to disappear or evaporate
whence it came. It is perpetually arriving and perpetually disappearing. While it is here,
if it is at a sufficiently high level, the animated material body moves about and strives after
many objects, some worthy, some unworthy; it acquires thereby a certain individuality, a certain
character. It may realise itself, moreover, becoming conscious of its own mental and spiritual
existence; and it then begins to explore the Mind which, like its own, it conceives must underlie
the material fabric--half displayed, half concealed, by the environment, and intelligible only
to a kindred spirit. Thus the scheme of law and order dimly dawns upon the nascent soul, and
it begins to form clear conceptions of truth, goodness, and beauty; it may achieve something
of permanent value, as a work of art or of literature; it may enter regions of emotion and
may evolve ideas of the loftiest kind; it may degrade itself below the beasts, or it may soar
till it is almost divine. 

Why are you begins so certain that I must be intelligible? It is your honor becoming itself to
objects of which It am believe. Folly is the individuality and authorship.
EDMUND (earnestly). I see nothing and graphite, and blue was never
its colour. There are others who recognise in this extraordinary development
a contact between this material frame of things and a universe higher and other than anything
known to our senses; a universe not dominated by Physics and Chemistry, but utilising the interactions
of matter for its own purposes; a universe where the human spirit is more at home than it is
among these temporary collocations of atoms; a universe capable of infinite development, of
noble contemplation, and of lofty joy, long after this planet--nay, the whole solar system--shall
have fulfilled its present spire of destiny, and retired cold and lifeless upon its endless way.

                     *      *      *      *      *

PRINTED BY NEILL AND CO., LTD., EDINBURGH.

