Poetry, in a general sense, may be defined to be 'the expression of the imagination': and poetry
is connate with the origin of man. Man is an instrument over which a series of external and
internal impressions are driven, like the alternations of an ever-changing wind over an Aeolian
lyre, which move it by their motion to ever-changing melody. But there is a principle within
the human being, and perhaps within all sentient beings, which acts otherwise than in the lyre,
and produces not melody alone, but harmony, by an internal adjustment of the sounds or motions
thus excited to the impressions which excite them. It is as if the lyre could accommodate its
chords to the motions of that which strikes them, in a determined proportion of sound; even
as the musician can accommodate his voice to the sound of the lyre. A child at play by itself
will express its delight by its voice and motions; and every inflexion of tone and every gesture
will bear exact relation to a corresponding antitype in the pleasurable impressions which awakened
it; it will be the reflected image of that impression; and as the lyre trembles and sounds
after the wind has died away, so the child seeks, by prolonging in its voice and motions the
duration of the effect, to prolong also a consciousness of the cause. In relation to the objects
which delight a child, these expressions are, what poetry is to higher objects. The savage
(for the savage is to ages what the child is to years) expresses the emotions produced in him
by surrounding objects in a similar manner; and language and gesture, together with plastic
or pictorial imitation, become the image of the combined effect of those objects, and of his
apprehension of them. Man in society, with all his passions and his pleasures, next becomes
the object of the passions and pleasures of man; an additional class of emotions produces an
augmented treasure of expressions; and language, gesture, and the imitative arts, become at
once the representation and the medium, the pencil and the picture, the chisel and the statue,
the chord and the harmony. The social sympathies, or those laws from which, as from its elements,
society results, begin to develop themselves from the moment that two human beings coexist;
the future is contained within the present, as the plant within the seed; and equality, diversity,
unity, contrast, mutual dependence, become the principles alone capable of affording the motives
according to which the will of a social being is determined to action, inasmuch as he is social;
and constitute pleasure in sensation, virtue in sentiment, beauty in art, truth in reasoning,
and love in the intercourse of kind. Hence men, even in the infancy of society, observe a certain
order in their words and actions, distinct from that of the objects and the impressions represented
by them, all expression being subject to the laws of that from which it proceeds. But let us
dismiss those more general considerations which might involve an inquiry into the principles
of society itself, and restrict our view to the manner in which the imagination is expressed
upon its forms.

In the youth of the world, men dance and sing and imitate natural objects, observing in these
actions, as in all others, a certain rhythm or order. And, although all men observe a similar,
they observe not the same order, in the motions of the dance, in the melody of the song, in
the combinations of language, in the series of their imitations of natural objects. For there
is a certain order or rhythm belonging to each of these classes of mimetic representation,
from which the hearer and the spectator receive an intenser and purer pleasure than from any
other: the sense of an approximation to this order has been called taste by modern writers.
Every man in the infancy of art observes an order which approximates more or less closely to
that from which this highest delight results: but the diversity is not sufficiently marked,
as that its gradations should be sensible, except in those instances where the predominance
of this faculty of approximation to the beautiful (for so we may be permitted to name the relation
between this highest pleasure and its cause) is very great. Those in whom it exists in excess
are poets, in the most universal sense of the word; and the pleasure resulting from the manner
in which they express the influence of society or nature upon their own minds, communicates
itself to others, and gathers a sort or reduplication from that community. Their language is
vitally metaphorical; that is, it marks the before unapprehended relations of things and perpetuates
their apprehension, until the words which represent them become, through time, signs for portions
or classes of thoughts instead of pictures of integral thoughts; and then if no new poets should
arise to create afresh the associations which have been thus disorganized, language will be
dead to all the nobler purposes of human intercourse. These similitudes or relations are finely
said by Lord Bacon to be 'the same footsteps of nature impressed upon the various subjects
of the world'; [Footnote: De Augment. Scient., cap. i, lib.  iii.] and he considers the faculty
which perceives them as the storehouse of axioms common to all knowledge. In the infancy of
society every author is necessarily a poet, because language itself is poetry; and to be a
poet is to apprehend the true and the beautiful, in a word, the good which exists in the relation,
subsisting, first between existence and perception, and secondly between perception and expression.
Every original language near to its source is in itself the chaos of a cyclic poem: the copiousness
of lexicography and the distinctions of grammar are the works of a later age, and are merely
the catalogue and the form of the creations of poetry.

But poets, or those who imagine and express this indestructible order, are not only the authors
of language and of music, of the dance, and architecture, and statuary, and painting; they
are the institutors of laws, and the founders of civil society, and the inventors of the arts
of life, and the teachers, who draw into a certain propinquity with the beautiful and the true,
that partial apprehension of the agencies of the invisible world which is called religion.
Hence all original religions are allegorical, or susceptible of allegory, and, like Janus,
have a double face of false and true. Poets, according to the circumstances of the age and
nation in which they appeared, were called, in the earlier epochs of the world, legislators,
or prophets: a poet essentially comprises and unites both these characters. For he not only
beholds intensely the present as it is, and discovers those laws according to which present
things ought to be ordered, but he beholds the future in the present, and his thoughts are
the germs of the flower and the fruit of latest time. Not that I assert poets to be prophets
in the gross sense of the word, or that they can foretell the form as surely as they foreknow
the spirit of events: such is the pretence of superstition, which would make poetry an attribute
of prophecy, rather than prophecy an attribute of poetry. A poet participates in the eternal,
the infinite, and the one; as far as relates to his conceptions, time and place and number
are not. The grammatical forms which express the moods of time, and the difference of persons,
and the distinction of place, are convertible with respect to the highest poetry without injuring
it as poetry; and the choruses of Aeschylus, and the book of Job, and Dante's Paradise, would
afford, more than any other writings, examples of this fact, if the limits of this essay did
not forbid citation. The creations of sculpture, painting, and music, are illustrations still
more decisive.

Language, colour, form, and religious and civil habits of action, are all the instruments and
materials of poetry; they may be called poetry by that figure of speech which considers the
effect as a synonym of the cause. But poetry in a more restricted sense expresses those arrangements
of language, and especially metrical language, which are created by that imperial faculty;
whose throne is curtained within the invisible nature of man. And this springs from the nature
itself of language, which is a more direct representation of the actions and passions of our
internal being, and is susceptible of more various and delicate combinations, than colour,
form, or motion, and is more plastic and obedient to the control of that faculty of which it
is the creation. For language is arbitrarily produced by the imagination and has relation to
thoughts alone; but all other materials, instruments and conditions of art, have relations
among each other, which limit and interpose between conception and expression The former is
as a mirror which reflects, the latter as a cloud which enfeebles, the light of which both
are mediums of communication. Hence the fame of sculptors, painters, and musicians, although
the intrinsic powers of the great masters of these arts may yield in no degree to that of those
who have employed language as the hieroglyphic of their thoughts, has never equalled that of
poets in the restricted sense of the term, as two performers of equal skill will produce unequal
effects from a guitar and a harp. The fame of legislators and founders of religions, so long
as their institutions last, alone seems to exceed that of poets in the restricted sense; but
it can scarcely be a question, whether, if we deduct the celebrity which their flattery of
the gross opinions of the vulgar usually conciliates, together with that which belonged to
them in their higher character of poets, any excess will remain.

We have thus circumscribed the word poetry within the limits of that art which is the most
familiar and the most perfect expression of the faculty itself. It is necessary, however, to
make the circle still narrower, and to determine the distinction between measured and unmeasured
language; for the popular division into prose and verse is inadmissible in accurate philosophy.

Sounds as well as thoughts have relation both between each other and towards that which they
represent, and a perception of the order of those relations has always been found connected
with a perception of the order of the relations of thoughts. Hence the language of poets has
ever affected a certain uniform and harmonious recurrence of sound, without which it were not
poetry, and which is scarcely less indispensable to the communication of its influence, than
the words themselves, without reference to that peculiar order. Hence the vanity of translation;
it were as wise to cast a violet into a crucible that you might discover the formal principle
of its colour and odour, as seek to transfuse from one language into another the creations
of a poet. The plant must spring again from its seed, or it will bear no flower--and this is
the burthen of the curse of Babel.

An observation of the regular mode of the recurrence of harmony in the language of poetical
minds, together with its relation to music, produced metre, or a certain system of traditional
forms of harmony and language. Yet it is by no means essential that a poet should accommodate
his language to this traditional form, so that the harmony, which is its spirit, be observed.
The practice is indeed convenient and popular, and to be preferred, especially in such composition
as includes much action: but every great poet must inevitably innovate upon the example of
his predecessors in the exact structure of his peculiar versification. The distinction between
poets and prose writers is a vulgar error. The distinction between philosophers and poets has
been anticipated. Plato was essentially a poet--the truth and splendour of his imagery, and
the melody of his language, are the most intense that it is possible to conceive. He rejected
the measure of the epic, dramatic, and lyrical forms, because he sought to kindle a harmony
in thoughts divested of shape and action, and he forbore to invent any regular plan of rhythm
which would include, under determinate forms, the varied pauses of his style. Cicero sought
to imitate the cadence of his periods, but with little success. Lord Bacon was a poet. [Footnote:
See the Filum Labyrinthi, and the Essay on Death particularly]. His language has a sweet and
majestic rhythm, which satisfies the sense, no less than the almost superhuman wisdom of his
philosophy satisfies the intellect; it is a strain which distends, and then bursts the circumference
of the reader's mind, and pours itself forth together with it into the universal element with
which it has perpetual sympathy. All the authors of revolutions in opinion are not only necessarily
poets as they are inventors, nor even as their words unveil the permanent analogy of things
by images which participate in the life of truth; but as their periods are harmonious and rhythmical,
and contain in themselves the elements of verse; being the echo of the eternal music. Nor are
those supreme poets, who have employed traditional forms of rhythm on account of the form and
action of their subjects, less capable of perceiving and teaching the truth of things, than
those who have omitted that form. Shakespeare, Dante, and Milton (to confine ourselves to modern
writers) are philosophers of the very loftiest power.

A poem is the very image of life expressed in its eternal truth. There is this difference between
a story and a poem, that a story is a catalogue of detached facts, which have no other connexion
than time, place, circumstance, cause and effect; the other is the creation of actions according
to the unchangeable forms of human nature, as existing in the mind of the Creator, which is
itself the image of all other minds. The one is partial, and applies only to a definite period
of time, and a certain combination of events which can never again recur; the other is universal,
and contains within itself the germ of a relation to whatever motives or actions have place
in the possible varieties of human nature. Time, which destroys the beauty and the use of the
story of particular facts, stripped of the poetry which should invest them, augments that of
poetry, and for ever develops new and wonderful applications of the eternal truth which it
contains. Hence epitomes have been called the moths of just history; they eat out the poetry
of it. A story of particular facts is as a mirror which obscures and distorts that which should
be beautiful: poetry is a mirror which makes beautiful that which is distorted.

The parts of a composition may be poetical, without the composition as a whole being a poem.
A single sentence may be a considered as a whole, though it may be found in the midst of a
series of unassimilated portions: a single word even may be a spark of inextinguishable thought.
And thus all the great historians, Herodotus, Plutarch, Livy, were poets; and although, the
plan of these writers, especially that of Livy, restrained them; from developing this faculty
in its highest degree, they made copious and ample amends for their subjection, by filling
all the interstices of their subjects with living images.

Having determined what is poetry, and who are poets, let us proceed to estimate its effects
upon society.

Poetry is ever accompanied with pleasure: all spirits on which it falls open themselves to
receive the wisdom which is mingled with its delight. In the infancy of the world, neither
poets themselves nor their auditors are fully aware of the excellence of poetry: for it acts
in a divine and unapprehended manner, beyond and above consciousness; and it is reserved for
future generations to contemplate and measure the mighty cause and effect in all the strength
and splendour of their union. Even in modern times, no living poet ever arrived at the fullness
of his fame; the jury which sits in judgement upon a poet, belonging as he does to all time,
must be composed of his peers: it must be impanelled by Time from the selectest of the wise
of many generations. A poet is a nightingale, who sits in darkness and sings to cheer its own
solitude with sweet sounds; his auditors are as men entranced by the melody of an unseen musician,
who feel that they are moved and softened, yet know not whence or why. The poems of Homer and
his contemporaries were the delight of infant Greece; they were the elements of that social
system which is the column upon which all succeeding civilization has reposed. Homer embodied
the ideal perfection of his age in human character; nor can we doubt that those who read his
verses were awakened to an ambition of becoming like to Achilles, Hector, and Ulysses the truth
and beauty of friendship, patriotism, and persevering devotion to an object, were unveiled
to the depths in these immortal creations: the sentiments of the auditors must have been refined
and enlarged by a sympathy with such great and lovely impersonations, until from admiring they
imitated, and from imitation they identified themselves with the objects of their admiration.
Nor let it be objected, that these characters are remote from moral perfection, and that they
can by no means be considered as edifying patterns for general imitation. Every epoch, under
names more or less specious, has deified its peculiar errors; Revenge is the naked idol of
the worship of a semi-barbarous age; and Self-deceit is the veiled image of unknown evil, before
which luxury and satiety lie prostrate. But a poet considers the vices of his contemporaries
as a temporary dress in which his creations must be arrayed, and which cover without concealing
the eternal proportions of their beauty. An epic or dramatic personage is understood to wear
them around his soul, as he may the ancient armour or the modern uniform around his body; whilst
it is easy to conceive a dress more graceful than either. The beauty of the internal nature
cannot be so far concealed by its accidental vesture, but that the spirit of its form shall
communicate itself to the very disguise, and indicate the shape it hides from the manner in
which it is worn. A majestic form and graceful motions will express themselves through the
most barbarous and tasteless costume. Few poets of the highest class have chosen to exhibit
the beauty of their conceptions in its naked truth and splendour; and it is doubtful whether
the alloy of costume, habit, &c., be not necessary to temper this planetary music for mortal ears.

The whole objection, however, of the immorality of poetry rests upon a misconception of the
manner in which poetry acts to produce the moral improvement of man. Ethical science arranges
the elements which poetry has created, and propounds schemes and proposes examples of civil
and domestic life: nor is it for want of admirable doctrines that men hate, and despise, and
censure, and deceive, and subjugate one another. But poetry acts in another and diviner manner.
It awakens and enlarges the mind itself by rendering it the receptacle of a thousand unapprehended
combinations of thought. Poetry lifts the veil from the hidden beauty of the world, and makes
familiar objects be as if they were not familiar; it reproduces all that it represents, and
the impersonations clothed in its Elysian light stand thenceforward in the minds of those who
have once contemplated them as memorials of that gentle and exalted content which extends itself
over all thoughts and actions with which it coexists. The great secret of morals is love; or
a going out of our own nature, and an identification of ourselves with the beautiful which
exists in thought, action, or person, not our own. A man, to be greatly good, must imagine
intensely and comprehensively; he must put himself in the place of another and of many others;
the pains and pleasures of his species must become his own. The great instrument of moral good
is the imagination; and poetry administers to the effect by acting upon the cause. Poetry enlarges
the circumference of the imagination by replenishing it with thought of ever new delight, which
have the power of attracting and assimilating to their own nature all other thoughts, and which
form new intervals and interstices whose void for ever craves fresh food. Poetry strengthens
the faculty which is the organ of the moral nature of man, in the same manner as exercise strengthens
a limb. A poet therefore would do ill to embody his own conceptions of right and wrong, which
are usually those of his place and time, in his poetical creations, which participate in neither
By this assumption of the inferior office of interpreting the effect in which perhaps after
all he might acquit himself but imperfectly, he would resign a glory in a participation in
the cause. There was little danger that Homer, or any of the eternal poets should have so far
misunderstood themselves as to have abdicated this throne of their widest dominion. Those in
whom the poetical faculty, though great, is less intense, as Euripides, Lucan, Tasso, Spenser,
have frequently affected a moral aim, and the effect of their poetry is diminished in exact
proportion to the degree in which they compel us to advert to this purpose.

Homer and the cyclic poets were followed at a certain interval by the dramatic and lyrical
poets of Athens, who flourished contemporaneously with all that is most perfect in the kindred
expressions of the poetical faculty; architecture, painting, music the dance, sculpture, philosophy,
and, we may add, the forms of civil life. For although the scheme of Athenian society was deformed
by many imperfections which the poetry existing in chivalry and Christianity has erased from
the habits and institutions of modern Europe; yet never at any other period has so much energy,
beauty, and virtue, been developed; never was blind strength and stubborn form so disciplined
and rendered subject to the will of man, or that will less repugnant to the dictates of the
beautiful and the true, as during the century which preceded the death of Socrates. Of no other
epoch in the history of our species have we records and fragments stamped so visibly with the
image of the divinity in man. But it is poetry alone, in form, in action, or in language, which
has rendered this epoch memorable above all others, and the storehouse of examples to everlasting
time. For written poetry existed at that epoch simultaneously with the other arts, and it is
an idle inquiry to demand which gave and which received the light, which all, as from a common
focus, have scattered over the darkest periods of succeeding time. We know no more of cause
and effect than a constant conjunction of events: poetry is ever found to coexist with whatever
other arts contribute to the happiness and perfection of man. I appeal to what has already
been established to distinguish between the cause and the effect.

It was at the period here adverted to, that the drama had its birth; and however a succeeding
writer may have equalled or surpassed those few great specimens of the Athenian drama which
have been preserved to us, it is indisputable that the art itself never was understood or practised
according to the true philosophy of it, as at Athens. For the Athenians employed language,
action, music, painting, the dance, and religious institutions, to produce a common effect
in the representation of the highest idealisms of passion and of power; each division in the
art was made perfect in its kind by artists of the most consummate skill, and was disciplined
into a beautiful proportion and unity one towards the other. On the modern stage a few only
of the elements capable of expressing the image of the poet's conception are employed at once.
We have tragedy without music and dancing; and music and dancing without the highest impersonations
of which they are the fit accompaniment, and both without religion and solemnity. Religious
institution has indeed been usually banished from the stage. Our system of divesting the actor's
face of a mask, on which the many expressions appropriated to his dramatic character might
be moulded into one permanent and unchanging expression, is favourable only to a partial and
inharmonious effect; it is fit for nothing but a monologue, where all the attention may be
directed to some great master of ideal mimicry. The modern practice of blending comedy with
tragedy, though liable to great abuse in point of practice, is undoubtedly an extension of
the dramatic circle; but the comedy should be as in KING LEAR, universal, ideal, and sublime.
It is perhaps the intervention of this principle which determines the balance in favour of
KING LEAR against the OEDIPUS TYRANNUS or the AGAMEMNON, or, if you will, the trilogies with
which they are connected; unless the intense power of the choral poetry, especially that of
the latter, should be considered as restoring the equilibrium. KING LEAR, if it can sustain
this comparison, may be judged to be the most perfect specimen of the dramatic art existing
in the world; in spite of the narrow conditions to which the poet was subjected by the ignorance
of the philosophy of the drama which has prevailed in modern Europe. Calderon, in his religious
AUTOS, has attempted to fulfil some of the high conditions of dramatic representation neglected
by Shakespeare; such as the establishing a relation between the drama and religion and the
accommodating them to music and dancing; but he omits the observation of conditions still more
important, and more is lost than gained by the substitution of the rigidly-defined and ever-repeated
idealisms of a distorted superstition for the living impersonations of the truth of human passion.

But I digress.--The connexion of scenic exhibitions with the improvement or corruption of the
manners of men, has been universally recognized: in other words, the presence or absence of
poetry in its most perfect and universal form, has been found to be connected with good and
evil in conduct or habit. The corruption which has been imputed to the drama as an effect,
begins when the poetry employed in its constitution ends: I appeal to the history of manners
whether the periods of the growth of the one and the decline of the other have not corresponded
with an exactness equal to any example of moral cause and effect.

The drama at Athens, or wheresoever else it may have approached to its perfection, ever co-existed
with the moral and intellectual greatness of the age. The tragedies of the Athenian poets are
as mirrors in which the spectator beholds himself, under a thin disguise of circumstance, stript
of all but that ideal perfection and energy which every one feels to be the internal type of
all that he loves, admires, and would become. The imagination is enlarged by a sympathy with
pains and passions so mighty, that they distend in their conception the capacity of that by
which they are conceived; the good affections are strengthened by pity, indignation, terror,
and sorrow; and an exalted calm is prolonged from the satiety of this high exercise of them
into the tumult of familiar life: even crime is disarmed of half its horror and all its contagion
by being represented as the fatal consequence of the unfathomable agencies of nature; error
is thus divested of its wilfulness; men can no longer cherish it as the creation of their choice.
In a drama of the highest order there is little food for censure or hatred; it teaches rather
self-knowledge and self-respect. Neither the eye nor the mind can see itself, unless reflected
upon that which it resembles. The drama, so long as it continues to express poetry, is as a
prismatic and many-sided mirror, which collects the brightest rays of human nature and divides
and reproduces them from the simplicity of these elementary forms, and touches them with majesty
and beauty, and multiplies all that it reflects, and endows it with the power of propagating
its like wherever it may fall.

But in periods of the decay of social life, the drama sympathizes with that decay. Tragedy
becomes a cold imitation of the form of the great masterpieces of antiquity, divested of all
harmonious accompaniment of the kindred arts; and often the very form misunderstood, or a weak
attempt to teach certain doctrines, which the writer considers as moral truths; and which are
usually no more than specious flatteries of some gross vice or weakness, with which the author,
in common with his auditors, are infected. Hence what has been called the classical and domestic
drama. Addison's CATO is a specimen of the one; and would it were not superfluous to cite examples
of the other! To such purposes poetry cannot be made subservient. Poetry is a sword of lightning,
ever unsheathed, which consumes the scabbard that would contain it. And thus we observe that
all dramatic writings of this nature are unimaginative in a singular degree; they affect sentiment
and passion, which, divested of imagination, are other names for caprice and appetite. The
period in our own history of the grossest degradation of the drama is the reign of Charles
II, when all forms in which poetry had been accustomed to be expressed became hymns to the
triumph of kingly power over liberty and virtue. Milton stood alone illuminating an age unworthy
of him. At such periods the calculating principle pervades all the forms of dramatic exhibition,
and poetry ceases to be expressed upon them. Comedy loses its ideal universality: wit succeeds
to humour; we laugh from self-complacency and triumph, instead of pleasure; malignity, sarcasm,
and contempt, succeed to sympathetic merriment; we hardly laugh, but we Obscenity, which is
ever blasphemy against the divine beauty in life, becomes, from the very veil which it assumes,
more active if less disgusting: it is a monster for which the corruption of society for ever
brings forth new food, which it devours in secret.

The drama being that form under which a greater number of modes of expression of poetry are
susceptible of being combined than any other, the connexion of poetry and social good is more
observable in the drama than in whatever other form. And it is indisputable that the highest
perfection of human society has ever corresponded with the highest dramatic excellence; and
that the corruption or the extinction of the drama in a nation where it has once flourished,
is a mark of a corruption of manners and an extinction of the energies which sustain the soul
of social life. But, as Machiavelli says of political institutions, that life may be preserved
and renewed, if men should arise capable of bringing back the drama to its principles. And
this is true with respect to poetry in its most extended sense: all language, institution and
form, require not only to be produced but to be sustained: the office and character of a poet
participates in the divine nature as regards providence, no less than as regards creation.

Civil war, the spoils of Asia, and the fatal predominance first of the Macedonian, and then
of the Roman arms, were so many symbols of the extinction or suspension of the creative faculty
in Greece. The bucolic writers, who found patronage under the lettered tyrants of Sicily and
Egypt, were the latest representatives of its most glorious reign. Their poetry is intensely
melodious, like the odour of the tuberose, it overcomes and sickens the spirit with excess
of sweetness; whilst the poetry of the preceding age was as a meadow-gale of June, which mingles
the fragrance all the flowers of the field, and adds a quickening and harmonizing spirit of
its own, which endows the sense with a power of sustaining its extreme delight. The bucolic
and erotic delicacy in written poetry is correlative with that softness in statuary, music
and the kindred arts, and even in manners and institutions, which distinguished the epoch to
which I now refer. Nor is it the poetical faculty itself, or any misapplication of it, to which
this want of harmony is to be imputed. An equal sensibility to the influence of the senses
and the affections is to be found in the writings of Homer and Sophocles: the former, especially,
has clothed sensual and pathetic images with irresistible attractions. Their superiority over
these succeeding writers consists in the presence of those thoughts which belong to the inner
faculties of our nature, not in the absence of those which are connected with the external:
their incomparable perfection consists in a harmony of the union of all.  It is not what the
erotic poets have, but what they have not, in which their imperfection consists. It is not
inasmuch as they were poets, but inasmuch as they were not poets, that they can be considered
with any plausibility as connected with the corruption of their age. Had that corruption availed
so as to extinguish in them the sensibility to pleasure, passion, and natural scenery, which
is imputed to them as an imperfection, the last triumph of evil would have been achieved. For
the end of social corruption is to destroy all sensibility to pleasure; and, therefore, it
is corruption. It begins at the imagination and the intellect as at the core, and distributes
itself thence as a paralysing venom, through the affections into the very appetites, until
all become a torpid mass in which hardly sense survives. At the approach of such a period,
poetry ever addresses itself to those faculties which are the last to be destroyed, and its
voice is heard, like the footsteps of Astraea, departing from the world. Poetry ever communicates
all the pleasure which men are capable of receiving: it is ever still the light of life; the
source of whatever of beautiful or generous or true can have place in an evil time. It will
readily be confessed that those among the luxurious citizens of Syracuse and Alexandria, who
were delighted with the poems of Theocritus, were less cold, cruel, and sensual than the remnant
of their tribe. But corruption must utterly have destroyed the fabric of human society before
poetry can ever cease. The sacred links of that chain have never been entirely disjoined, which
descending through the minds of many men is attached to those great minds, whence as from a
magnet the invisible effluence is sent forth, which at once connects, animates, and sustains
the life of all. It is the faculty which contains within itself the seeds at once of its own
and of social renovation.  And let us not circumscribe the effects of the bucolic and erotic
poetry within the limits of the sensibility of those to whom it was addressed. They may have
perceived the beauty of those immortal compositions, simply as fragments and isolated portions:
those who are more finely organized, or born in a happier age, may recognize them as episodes
to that great poem, which all poets, like the cooperating thoughts of one great mind, have
built up since the beginning of the world.

The same revolutions within a narrower sphere had place in ancient Rome; but the actions and
forms of its social life never seem to have been perfectly saturated with the poetical element.
The Romans appear to have considered the Greeks as the selectest treasuries of the selectest
forms of manners and of nature, and to have abstained from creating in measured language, sculpture,
music, or architecture, anything which might bear a particular relation to their own condition,
whilst it should bear a general one to the universal constitution of the world. But we judge
from partial evidence, and we judge perhaps partially Ennius, Varro, Pacuvius, and Accius,
all great poets, have been lost. Lucretius is in the highest, and Virgil in a very high sense,
a creator. The chosen delicacy of expressions of the latter, are as a mist of light which conceal
from us the intense and exceeding truth of his conceptions of nature. Livy is instinct with
poetry. Yet Horace, Catullus, Ovid, and generally the other great writers of the Virgilian
age, saw man and nature in the mirror of Greece. The institutions also, and the religion of
Rome were less poetical than those of Greece, as the shadow is less vivid than the substance.
Hence poetry in Rome, seemed to follow, rather than accompany, the perfection of political
and domestic society. The true poetry of Rome lived in its institutions; for whatever of beautiful,
true, and majestic, they contained, could have sprung only from the faculty which creates the
order in which they consist. The life of Camillus, the death of Regulus; the expectation of
the senators, in their godlike state, of the victorious Gauls: the refusal of the republic
to make peace with Hannibal, after the battle of Cannae, were not the consequences of a refined
calculation of the probable personal advantage to result from such a rhythm and order in the
shows of life, to those who were at once the poets and the actors of these immortal dramas.
The imagination beholding the beauty of this order, created it out of itself according to its
own idea; the consequence was empire, and the reward everliving fame. These things are not
the less poetry quid carent vate sacro. They are the episodes of that cyclic poem written by
Time upon the memories of men. The Past, like an inspired rhapsodist, fills the theatre of
everlasting generations with their harmony.

At length the ancient system of religion and manners had fulfilled the circle of its revolutions.
And the world would have fallen into utter anarchy and darkness, but that there were found
poets among the authors of the Christian and chivalric systems of manners and religion, who
created forms of opinion and action never before conceived; which, copied into the imaginations
of men, become as generals to the bewildered armies of their thoughts. It is foreign to the
present purpose to touch upon the evil produced by these systems: except that we protest, on
the ground of the principles already established, that no portion of it can be attributed to
the poetry they contain.

It is probable that the poetry of Moses, Job, David, Solomon, and Isaiah, had produced a great
effect upon the mind of Jesus and his disciples. The scattered fragments preserved to us by
the biographers of this extraordinary person, are all instinct with the most vivid poetry.
But his doctrines seem to have been quickly distorted. At a certain period after the prevalence
of a system of opinions founded upon those promulgated by him, the three forms into which Plato
had distributed the faculties of mind underwent a sort of apotheosis, and became the object
of the worship of the civilized world. Here it is to be confessed that 'Light seems to thicken,'
and

