"We entered the log house: the inside is quite unlike that of the cottages of the peasantry
of Europe: it contains more than is superfluous, less than is necessary. A single window with
a muslin blind; on a hearth of trodden clay an immense fire, which lights the whole structure;
above the hearth a good rifle, a deer's skin, and plumes of eagles' feathers; on the right
hand of the chimney a map of the United States, raised and shaken by the wind through the crannies
in the wall; near the map, upon a shelf formed of a roughly hewn plank, a few volumes of books--a
Bible, the six first books of Milton, and two of Shakespeare's plays; along the wall, trunks
instead of closets; in the centre of the room a rude table, with legs of green wood, and with
the bark still upon them, looking as if they grew out of the ground on which they stood; but
on this table a tea-pot of British ware, silver spoons, cracked tea-cups, and some newspapers. I was at 17. No Line, Division of Vandamme, lying on the ground seriously
wounded in the head. I really thought my last hour had come. Well, as I say, passing him with all his
staff and the infantry of the Guard, his horse's legs bruised my arm in those terms, it still
hurts. However, such was our enthusiasm that famous day, sitting up as I could, I shouted: "Long
live the Emperor!"

Thus spoke a man unknown to me, about forty years, Malcarado, but rather with features and expression
true beauty fades, but not destroyed by the passions or vices, tall stature, looking alive and
between melancholy and rascally smile, person as well run on the things of the world, especially
in the struggles of this life to the pair lazy and difficult to conduct plenty of imagination and lack
of money; person frank manners and easy, very easy to speak, both in the jokes in earnest, an individual
whose personality was complemented by the most elegant shabbiness of his suit more old than
new, and no less tattered than broken, but all this was put little to see, through the needle
Concealer, which had been corrected and the rubbing of the lollipop as the spelling of the
means.

These were, if I remember correctly, black pants and the last nail color. He wore short hair,
with two mechoncitos on both temples, without any dust, unless it was the road, his dark coat,
and a court is not very common among us ombliguera his vest, is a bit foreign too, and his
tie , report endive, posing him as born outside Spain but was Spanish. But for another reason
other than the oddities of dress, was confounded by such person, and this is a point not to
capitalísimo passed over in silence. The man had a mustache. This was, why deny it, which more
than anything else caught my attention when I saw him leaning over the table, eating avidly about
the way huge bowl of soup, porridge or do not know what possessed delicacy, while dinner enlivened
between spoonfuls telling the exploits of Napoleon I. Two people, both elderly and of the opposite
sex made up his audience: the male, which of course I found an old decommissioned military, listened
with furrowed brow and sullen the praise of invading Spain, but the old lady, more awake and talkative
than his consort, he answered with a certain nonchalance to panegyrist
as funny as irrelevant. - By God, Mr. de Santorcaz - the old saying
- you do not shout or talk about such things where you can hear.

My husband and I already know him from before, we are not astonished
at his antics, but, alas, the vicinity of this house is very intrusive,
very intriguing, and does not deal more than gossip and illusions.

 Which was right?--the
English people of the last century, or the English people of the present day?

The same thing has occurred in France. It is certain that during the reign of Louis XIV the
great bulk of the nation was devotedly attached to the form of government which, at that time,
governed the community. But it is a vast error to suppose that there was anything degraded
in the character of the French of that age. There might be some sort of servitude in France
at that time, but assuredly there was no servile spirit among the people. The writers of that
age felt a species of genuine enthusiasm in extolling the power of their king; and there was
no peasant so obscure in his hovel as not to take a pride in the glory of his sovereign, and
to die cheerfully with the cry "Vive le Roi!" upon his lips. These very same forms of loyalty
are now odious to the French people. Which are wrong?--the French of the age of Louis XIV,
or their descendants of the present day?

Our judgment of the laws of a people must not then be founded Future Condition Of Three Races
In The United States exclusively upon its inclinations, since those inclinations change from
age to age; but upon more elevated principles and a more general experience. The love which
a people may show for its law proves only this:--that we should not be in too great a hurry
to change them.

Appendix V

In the chapter to which this note relates I have pointed out one source of danger: I am now
about to point out another kind of peril, more rare indeed, but far more formidable if it were
ever to make its appearance. If the love of physical gratification and the taste for well-being,
which are naturally suggested to men by a state of equality, were to get entire possession
of the mind of a democratic people, and to fill it completely, the manners of the nation would
become so totally opposed to military tastes, that perhaps even the army would eventually acquire
a love of peace, in spite of the peculiar interest which leads it to desire war. Living in
the midst of a state of general relaxation, the troops would ultimately think it better to
rise without efforts, by the slow but commodious advancement of a peace establishment, than
to purchase more rapid promotion at the cost of all the toils and privations of the field.
With these feelings, they would take up arms without enthusiasm, and use them without energy;
they would allow themselves to be led to meet the foe, instead of marching to attack him. D. Diego is so good ...! And treats us as if we were all equal.

- As if you were the same! - Dona Maria said with slight signs of anger.

- No ... go to that indicated correcting my slip ...-- -.

D. Diego is a gentleman, and we Badulaques about ... I mean we tried
without tyranny ... D. Poor Diego! But we to meet you, ma'am, D. Diego
is alive and well. Heart tells me.

- You're a good boy. Help us find
my son and I will reward you. Nothing is more dangerous for the freedom and the tranquillity of a people
than an army afraid of war, because, as such an army no longer seeks to maintain its importance
and its influence on the field of battle, it seeks to assert them elsewhere. So,
that germ of passion, kept in an egg, was recognized with life, recognized with power, and began
to peck at his prison, yearning to breathe out of her and heat up with more energetic hot
flashes. I shall here repeat what I have said in the text: the remedy
for these dangers is not to be found in the army, but in the country: a democratic people which
has preserved the manliness of its character will never be at a loss for military prowess in
its soldiers.

Appendix W

