9. At the same time it must be confessed that when an error, however flagrant and pestilential,
has ceased to shock and scandalize the general body of the commonwealth; when the people listen
to the doctrine without indignation, and their worst sentence upon it pronounces it merely
"queer," there is little hope of legal restraints there enduring long or effecting much. Penalties
for the expression of opinion are available only so far as they tally with the common feeling
of the country. When public opinion ceases to bear them out, it is better not to enforce them:
for that were but to provoke resentment and make martyrs. No regulations can be maintained
except in a congenial atmosphere. Allowance too must be made for the danger of driving the
evil to burrow underground.

10. The censorship of opinions even in a model State would vary in method according to men
and times. The censorship of the Press in particular might be either by Imprimatur required
before printing, or by liability to prosecution after. The Imprimatur might be either for all
books, or only for a certain class. It might be either obligatory, or merely matter of counsel,
to obtain it. We are not to adopt promiscuously all the praiseworthy institutions of our forefathers.

Readings.--Cardinal Newman, Letter to Duke of Norfolk, S 5; The Month for June, 1883, pp. 200,
seqq.

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX

Of the precepts of Natural Law, some are more simple and of wider extension; others are derivative,
complex, and extend to fewer cases. It is a question of more and less, and no hard and fast
line of demarcation can be drawn between them. The former however are called primary, the latter
secondary precepts. Again, the nature of man is the same in all men and at all periods of history
for its essential elements, but admits of wide, accidental variation and declension for the
worse. Thirdly, it is clear that Natural Law is a law good and suitable for human nature to
observe. Starting from these three axioms, we apply the reasoning of St. Thomas, 1a 2a, q.
96, art. 2, not to human law alone, of which he is speaking, but to sundry secondary precepts
of Natural Law. These are his words:

"A law is laid down as a rule or measure of human acts. Now a measure ought to be homogeneous
with the thing measured. Hence laws also must be imposed upon men according to their condition.
As Isidore says: 'A law ought to be possible both according to nature and according to the
custom of the country.' Now the power or faculty of action proceeds from interior habit or
disposition. The same thing is not possible to him who has no habit of virtue, that is possible
to a virtuous man; as the same thing is not possible to a boy and to a grown man, and therefore
the same rule is not laid down for children as for adults. Many things are allowed to children,
that in adults are visited with legal punishment or with blame, and in like manner many things
must be allowed to men not perfect in virtue, which would be intolerable in virtuous men."

This reasoning leads us up to a conclusion, which St. Thomas states thus (la 2a, q. 94. art. 5):

"A conceivable way in which the Natural Law might be changed is the way of subtraction, that
something should cease to be of the Natural Law that was of it before. Understanding change
in this sense, the Natural Law is absolutely immutable in its first principles; but as to secondary
precepts, which are certain detailed conclusions closely related to the first principles, the
Natural Law is not so changed as that its dictate is not right in most cases steadily to abide
by; it may however be changed in some particular case, and in rare instances, through some
special causes impeding the observance of these secondary precepts."

