"But," urged Mr. Beresford, "you cannot think over a matter of this kind by yourself. You'll
continually be needing to refer to me for data, don't you know, on which to base your conclusions.
How can you tell whether you're in love with me or not if-- (No, I am not shouting at all;
it's your guilty conscience; I'm whispering.) How can you tell whether you're in love with
me, I repeat, unless you keep me under constant examination?"

"That seems sensible, though I dare say it is full of sophistry; but I have made up my mind
to go into the country and paint while Salemina and Francesca are on the Continent. One cannot
think in this whirl. A winter season in Washington followed by a summer season in London,--one
wants a breath of fresh air before beginning another winter season somewhere else. Be a little
patient, please. I long for the calm that steals over me when I am absorbed in my brushes and
my oils."

"Work is all very well," said Mr. Beresford with determination, "but I know your habits. You
have a little way of taking your brush, and with one savage sweep painting out a figure from
your canvas. Now if I am on the canvas of your heart,--I say 'if' tentatively and modestly,
as becomes me,--I've no intention of allowing you to paint me out; therefore I wish to remain
in the foreground, where I can say 'Strike, but hear me,' if I discover any hostile tendencies
in your eye. But I am thankful for small favours (the 'no' you do not quite dare say, for instance),
and I'll talk it over with you to-morrow, if the British gentry will give me an opportunity,
and if you'll deign to give me a moment alone in any other place than the Royal Academy."

"I was alone with you to-day for a whole hour at least."

"Yes, first at the London and Westminster Bank, second in Trafalgar Square, and third on the
top of a 'bus, none of them congenial spots to a man in my humour. Penelope, you are not dull,
but you don't seem to understand that I am head over-"

"What are you two people quarrelling about?" cried Salemina. "Come, Penelope, get your wrap.
Mrs. Beresford, isn't she charming in her new Liberty gown? If that New York wit had seen her,
he couldn't have said, 'If that is Liberty, give me Death!' Yes, Francesca, you must wear something
over your shoulders. Whistle for two four-wheelers, Dawson, please."

Part Second--In the country.

Chapter XV. Penelope dreams.

                                  West Belvern, Holly House
                                          August 189-.

I am here alone. Salemina has taken her little cloth bag and her notebook and gone to inspect
the educational and industrial methods of Germany. If she can discover anything that they are
not already doing better in Boston, she will take it back with her, but her state of mind regarding
the outcome of the trip might be described as one of incredulity tinged with hope. Francesca
has accompanied Salemina. Not that the inspection of systems is much in her line, but she prefers
it to a solitude a deux with me when I am in a working mood, and she comforts herself with
the anticipation that the German army is very attractive. Willie Beresford has gone with his
mother to Aix-les-Bains, like the dutiful son that he is. They say that a good son makes a
good-- But that subject is dismissed to the background for the present, for we are in a state
of armed neutrality. He has agreed to wait until the autumn for a final answer, and I have
promised to furnish one by that time. Meanwhile, we are to continue our acquaintance by post,
which is a concession I would never have allowed if I had had my wits about me.

After paying my last week's bill in Dovermarle Street, including fees to several servants whom
I knew by sight, and several others whose acquaintance I made for the first time at the moment
of departure, I glanced at my ebbing letter of credit and felt a season of economy setting
in upon me with unusual severity; accordingly, I made an experiment of coming third-class to
Belvern. I handed the guard a shilling, and he gave me a seat riding backwards in a carriage
with seven other women, all very frumpish, but highly respectable. As he could not possibly
have done any worse for me, I take it that he considered the shilling a graceful tribute to
his personal charms, but as having no other bearing whatever. The seven women stared at me
throughout the journey. When one is really of the same blood, and when one does not open one's
lips or wave the stars and stripes in any possible manner, how do they detect the American?
These women looked at me as if I were a highly interesting anthropoidal ape. It was not because
of my attire, for I was carefully dressed down to a third-class level; yet when I removed my
plain Knox hat and leaned my head back against my travelling-pillow, an electrical shudder
of intense excitement ran through the entire compartment. When I stooped to tie my shoe another
current was set in motion, and when I took Charles Reade's White Lies from my portmanteau they
glanced at one another as if to say, 'Would that we could see in what language the book is
written!' As a travelling mystery I reached my highest point at Oxford, for there I purchased
a small basket of plums from a boy who handed them in at the window of the carriage. After
eating a few, I offered the rest to a dowdy elderly woman on my left who was munching dry biscuits
from a paper bag. 'What next?' was the facial expression of the entire company. My neighbour
accepted the plums, but hid them in her bag; plainly thinking them poisoned, and believing
me to be a foreign conspirator, conspiring against England through the medium of her inoffensive
person. In the course of the four-hours' journey, I could account for the strange impression
I was making only upon the theory that it is unusual to comport oneself in a first-class manner
in a third-class carriage. All my companions chanced to be third-class by birth as well as
by ticket, and the Englishwoman who is born third-class is sometimes deficient in imagination.

Upon arriving at Great Belvern (which must be pronounced 'Bevern') I took a trap, had my luggage
put on in front, and start on my quest for lodgings in West Belvern, five miles distant. Several
addresses had been given me by Hilda Mellifica, who has spent much time in this region, and
who begged me to use her name. I told the driver that I wished to find a clean, comfortable
lodging, with the view mentioned in the guide-book, and with a purple clematis over the door,
if possible. The last point astounded him to such a degree that he had, I think, a serious
idea of giving me into custody. (I should not be so eccentrically spontaneous with these people,
if they did not feed my sense of humour by their amazement.)

We visited Holly House, Osborne, St. James, Victoria, and Albert houses, Tank Villa, Poplar
Villa, Rose, Brake, and Thorn Villas, as well as Hawthorn, Gorse, Fern, Shrubbery, and Providence
Cottages. Their best record, five minutes eighteen seconds, was made by one whose best record
was two minutes forty seconds in ordinary figures. The author's own best results were two minutes
thirty-eight seconds binary, and three minutes twenty-three seconds usual. He thus proved himself
inferior to the last observer, as an adder, by a system in which both were equally well trained;
but a greater familiarity (extending over a few weeks instead of a few hours) with methods in
binary addition enabled him to work twice as fast with them. Of the author's nine additions by the
usual figures, four were wrong in one figure each; of his thirty-two additions by different forms
of binary notation, five were wrong, one of them in two places. One observer found that he
required one minute thirty-three seconds to add a single column (average of five tried) by the
usual figures, and fifteen seconds to count the characters in one (average of six tried) by
the binary. Though these additions were rather slow, the results are interesting. They show, making
allowance for the greater number of columns (three and a third times
as many) required by the binary plan, a saving of nearly half; but
they also illustrate the necessity of practice.

This observer succeeded with the binary arithmetic by avoiding the sources of delay that particularly
embarrass the beginner, by contenting himself with counting only, and not stopping to divide
by two, to set down an unfamiliar character, or to recognize the mark by which he must distinguish
his next column. Of what use to labour, to struggle, to deny myself,
for an art to which I can never be more than the humblest handmaiden? I felt like crying out,
as did once a braver woman's soul than mine, 'Let me be weak! I have been seeming to be strong
so many years!' The woman and the artist in me have always struggled for the mastery. So far
the artist has triumphed, and now all at once the woman is uppermost. I should think the two
ought to be able to live peaceably in the same tenement; they do manage it in some cases; but
it seems a law of my being that I shall either be all one or all the other.

The question for me to ask myself now is, "Am I in love with loving and with being loved, or
am I in love with Willie Beresford?" How many women have confounded the two, I wonder?

In this mood I fell asleep, and on a sudden I found myself in a dear New England garden. The
pillow slipped away, and my cheek pressed a fragrant mound of mignonette, the self-same one
on which I hid my tear-stained face and sobbed my heart out in childish grief and longing for
the mother who would never hold me again. The moon came up over the Belvern Hills and shone
on my half-closed lids; but to me it was a very different moon, the far-away moon of my childhood,
with a river rippling beneath its silver rays. And the wind that rustled among the poplar branches
outside my window was, in my dream, stirring the pink petals of a blossoming apple-tree that
used to grow beside the bank of mignonette, wafting down sweet odours and drinking in sweeter
ones. And presently there stole in upon this harmony of enchanting sounds and delicate fragrances,
in which childhood and womanhood, pleasure and pain, memory and anticipation, seemed strangely
intermingled, the faint music of a voice, growing clearer and clearer as my ear became familiar
with its cadences. And what the dream voice said to me was something like this:--

