The Naaskiddi are to the north and south of the painting; they carry staffs of lightning ornamented
with eagle plumes and sunbeams. Their bodies are nude except the loin skirt; their leggings
and moccasins are the same as the others. The hunch upon the back is a black cloud, and the
three groups of white lines denote corn and other seeds of vegetation. Five eagle plumes are
attached to the cloud backs (eagles live with the clouds); the body is surrounded with sunlight;
the lines of red and blue which border the bunch upon the back denote sunbeams penetrating
storm clouds. The black circle zigzagged with white around the head is a cloud basket filled
with corn and seeds of grass. On either side of the head are five feathers of the red shafted
flicker (Colaptes cafer); a fox skin is attached to the right side of the throat; the mountain
sheep horns are tipped with the under tail feathers of the eagle, tied on with cotton cord.
The horns are filled with clouds. The rainbow goddess, upon which these gods often travel,
completes the picture.

Upon completion of the painting the song-priest, who stood to the east of it holding in his
hand a bag of sacred meal, stepped carefully between the figures, sprinkling pollen upon the
feet and heart of each. He then sprinkled a thread of pollen up each cheek and down the middle
of the face of the figures, afterwards extending his right hand toward the east. The face of
the encircling rainbow goddess was also sprinkled. The song-priest placed the sacred wands
around the rainbow, commencing on the west side of the painting, and repeated a prayer, pointing
his finger to the head of each figure. He also placed a small gourd of medicine water in the
hands of the rainbow goddess and laid a small cedar twig on the gourd. The invalid upon entering
the lodge was handed an Apache basket containing sacred meal, which he sprinkled over the painting
and placed the basket near the feet of the rainbow goddesses; the song-priest and choir sang
to the accompaniment of the rattle. A short time after the entrance of the invalid Hasjelti
appeared, and taking the evergreen from the gourd dipped it into the medicine water and sprinkled
the feet, heart, and heads of the sand figures, after which the invalid sat in the center of
the cross. Hasjelti gave him a sip of the sacred water from the gourd and returned the gourd
to its place; then he touched the feet, heart, and head of each figure successively with his
right hand, each time touching the corresponding parts of the body of the invalid. Every time
Hasjelti touched the invalid he gave a weird hoot. After he had been touched with sands from
all the paintings the theurgist, selecting a few live coals from a small fire which had been
kept burning near the door, threw them in front of the invalid, who still retained his seat
in the center of the painting. The theurgist placed herbs, which he took from a buckskin bag,
on the coals from which a very pleasant aroma arose. An attendant sprinkled water on the coals
and a moment after threw them out of the fire opening. The song-priest gathered the wands from
around the edge of the painting and four attendants began to erase it by scraping the sands
from the cardinal points to the center. Again the people hurried to take sand from the hearts,
heads, and limbs of the figures to rub upon themselves. The sands were gathered into a blanket
and deposited at the base of a piñon tree about one hundred yards north of the lodge. A chant
closed the ceremony.

SEVENTH DAY.

The first business of the day was the preparation of an elaborate sand picture, and though
the artists worked industriously from dawn, it was not completed until after 3 o’clock. The
paint grinder was kept busy to supply the artists. It was observed that in drawing some of
the lines the artists used a string of stretched yarn instead of the weaving stick. When five
of the figures had been completed, six young men came into the lodge, removed their clothes,
and whitened their bodies and limbs with kaolin; they then left the lodge to solicit food from
the people, who were now quite thickly gathered over the mesa to witness the closing ceremonies.
The mesa top for a mile around was crowded with Indians, horses, sheep, and hogans (lodges);
groups of 3 to 20 Indians could be seen here and there gambling, while foot and horse racing
were features of special interest. Indeed, the people generally were enjoying themselves at
the expense of the invalid. The rainbow goddess, Nattsilit, surrounding the painting, was about
25 feet in length. Upon the completion of the painting the song-priest sprinkled the figures
with pollen as before described and planted the feather wands around the pictures.

In the illustration of this painting, Pl. CXXIII, Hasjelti will be recognized as the leader.
He carries a fawn skin filled with sacred meal; the spots on the skin are seven and in the
form of a great bear. The fawn skin indicates him as the chief of all game. It was Hasjelti
who created game. The first six figures following Hasjelti are the Ethsethle. The next six
figures are their wives. Toneennili, the water sprinkler (to, water, and yonily, to sprinkle),
follows carrying a water jug, from which he sprinkles the earth. The Ethsethle wear leggings
of corn pollen and the forearms of the gods are covered with pollen. Their wives have their
arms and bodies covered with the same. The skirts of the Ethsethle are elaborately ornamented
and their pouches at their sides are decorated with many beads, feathers, and fringes. The
gods are walking upon black clouds and mist (the yellow denoting mist), the women upon blue
clouds and mist.

During the ceremony an Apache basket containing meal was brought in and placed at the feet
of the rainbow goddess. The invalid entered the lodge, which had become quite filled with privileged
spectators, and receiving the basket of meal, sprinkled the figures from left to right; he
then removed all his clothing except his breech cloth and stood east of the painting. Hostjoghon
stepped to the head of the rainbow goddess and taking the small gourd of medicine water dipped
the cedar twig into the water and sprinkled the figures, then touched the twig to the feet,
heart, and head of each figure, commencing at the male figure to the north and passing south,
then beginning with the female figures to the north and passing south. The invalid took his
seat in the center of the painting with his knees drawn to his chin. Hostjoghon held the medicine
gourd over each figure and passed it to the invalid, who took four sips, Hostjoghon hooting
each time he passed the gourd to the invalid. After returning the gourd and twig to their former
position he placed the palms of his hands to the feet and head of each figure and then placed
his palms on the corresponding parts of the invalid’s body, and pressed his head several times
between his hands. After touching any part of the invalid, Hostjoghon threw his hands upward
and gave one of his characteristic hoots. The song-priest placed coals in front of the invalid
and herbs upon them, as he had done the day before, and then retired. The coals were afterwards
thrown out of the fire opening and the crowd rushed to the painting to rub their bodies with
the sand. The painting was obliterated in the usual manner and the sand carried out and deposited
at the base of a piñon tree some 200 yards from the lodge.

EIGHTH DAY.

The grinding of the paint began at daylight, and just at sunrise the artists commenced their
work. When any mistake occurred, which was very seldom, it was obliterated by sifting the ground
color over it. Each artist endeavored to finish his special design first, and there was considerable
betting as to who would succeed. The rapidity with which these paints are handled is quite
remarkable, particularly as most of the lines are drawn entirely by the eye. After the completion
of the painting, each figure being three and a half feet long, corn pollen was sprinkled over
the whole by the song priest. (See illustration, Pl. CXXIII.)

The corn stalk in the picture signifies the main subsistence of life; the square base and triangle
are clouds, and the three white lines at the base of the corn stalk denote the roots of the
corn. The figures of this picture are each 3-1/2 feet in length. These are the Zenichi (people
of the white rock with a red streak through it) and their wives. Their homes are high in the
canyon wall. The black parallelogram to the west of the painting designates a red streak in
the rock in which are their homes. The delicate white lines indicate their houses, which are
in the interior or depths of the rock, and can not be seen from the surface. This canyon wall
is located north of the Ute Mountain. These people of the rocks move in the air like birds.
The red portion of the bodies of the Zenichi denote red corn; the black portion black clouds.
The red half of the face represents also the red corn; the blue of the bodies of the others
denote vegetation in general, and the yellow, pollen of all vegetation. The zigzag lines of
the bodies is lightning; the black lines around the head, zigzagged with white, are cloud baskets
that hold red corn, which is stacked in pyramidal form and capped with three eagle plumes.
There are five feathers of the red and black shafted flicker (Colapteo cafer) on either side
of the head. A lightning bow is held in the left hand, the right holds a rattle ornamented
with feathers. The females carry in their hands decorated baskets and sprigs of piñon, and
they wear white leggings and beaded moccasins. The Zenichi never dance. These gods are also
called Zaadoljaii, meaning rough mouth, or anything that protrudes roughly from the mouth.
(The mouth and eyes of these gods protrude.) The rainbow goddess is represented at the north
and south end of the painting. The corn stalk has two ears of corn, while the original stalk
had 12 ears. Two of these ears the gods gave to the younger brother of the Tolchini when they
commanded him to return to the Navajo and instruct them how to represent the gods in sand painting
and in masks. The four corner figures will be recognized as the Naashiddi (hunchback, or mountain
sheep).

During the ceremony Hasjelti, dressed in black velvet ornamented with silver, and Hostjoboard,
with her nude body painted white and with silk scarf around the loins caught on with silver
belt, left the lodge to gather the children upon the mesa for the purpose of initiating them;
but the children had already been summoned by men who rode over the mesa on horseback, visiting
every hogan to see that all the children were brought for initiation. A buffalo robe was spread
at the end of the avenue which extended from the medicine lodge some three hundred yards. The
head of the robe was to the east; at the end of the robe blankets were spread in a kind of
semicircle. Most of the children were accompanied by their mothers. The boys were stripped
of their clothing and sat upon the buffalo robe. The head of the line being to the north, they
all faced east with their feet stretched out. Their arms hung by their sides and their heads
were bent forward. The girls sat in line upon the blanket in company with their mothers and
the mothers of the boys. It is entirely a matter of choice whether or not a mother accompanies
her child or takes any part in the ceremony. The girls also sat like the boys, their heads
bent forward. Their heads were bent down that they might not look upon the gods until they
had been initiated. Up to this time they were supposed never to have had a close view of the
masks or to have inspected anything pertaining to their religious ceremonies. The children
ranged from five to ten years of age. At this particular ceremony nine boys and six girls were
initiated. When the children were all in position, Hasjelti, carrying a fawn skin containing
sacred meal, and Hostjoboard, carrying two needles of the Spanish bayonet, stood in front of
the children. The boy at the head of the line was led out and stood facing the east. Hasjelti,
with the sacred meal, formed a cross on his breast, at the same time giving his peculiar hoot.
Hostjoboard struck him upon the breast, first with the needles held in her right hand and then
with those held in the left. Hasjelti then turned the boy toward the right until he faced west
and made a cross with meal upon his back, when Hostjoboard struck him twice on the back with
the needles. He was again turned to face the east, when both arms were extended and brought
together. Hasjelti made a cross over the arms and then over the knees. Each time the boy was
crossed with the meal Hostjoboard struck the spot first with the needles in the right hand
and then with those in the left, after which the boy returned to his seat. The cross denotes
the scalp knot. Most of the boys advanced quite bravely to receive the chastisement. I noticed
but one who seemed very nervous, and with great difficulty he kept back the tears. The boys’
ceremony over, the gods approached the girls, beginning at the end of the line next to the
boys. Hasjelti marked a line of meal on each side of the foot of the girl, when Hostjoboard,
now holding two ears of yellow corn wrapped with piñon twigs, placed them to the soles of the
girl’s feet and Hasjelti drew a line of meal on each hand; after which Hostjoboard placed the
ears of corn to the palms of the hands, she holding the corn in her palms and pressing it to
the palms of the girl’s hands. Hasjelti formed a cross on the breast with the meal and Hostjoboard
pressed the two ears of corn to the breast; a cross was made on the back and the two ears of
corn pressed to the back. Hasjelti, with his right hand, then drew a line on the girl’s left
shoulder, and with his left hand a line on the girl’s right shoulder, the corn being pressed
to the shoulders in the manner described. Two lines of meal were run over the forehead back
to the top of the head, and the two ears of corn pressed to the top of head. The boys were
nude but the girls were gayly dressed in blankets, jewelry, etc. At the close of this ceremony
the representatives of the gods removed their masks and called upon the children to raise their
heads. The amazement depicted upon the faces of the children when they discovered their own
people and not gods afforded much amusement to the spectators. The masks were laid upon a blanket
and the girls and boys were commanded to look upon them. Hostjoboard placed her mask upon the
face of each boy and girl and woman in the line, beginning at the north end of the line, giving
a hoot each time the mask was placed upon anyone. Great care was taken that the mask should
be so arranged upon the face that the eyes might look directly through the eyeholes, for should
any blunder occur the sight of at least one eye would be lost. It is scarcely on before it
is removed. After the masks had been placed on all the faces it was laid beside Hasjelti’s.
The man personating Hasjelti sprinkled his mask and then Hostjoboard’s with pollen, and the
man personating Hostjoboard sprinkled Hasjelti’s mask and then his own with pollen. The boy
to the north end of the line was called out and from the pollen bag took a pinch of pollen
and sprinkled first the mask of Hasjelti and then Hostioboard’s. This was repeated by each
boy, girl, and woman in the line. In approaching the masks they always pass back of the line
around to the north side and then step in front of the masks. The mask is sprinkled in this
wise: A line of pollen is run from the top of the head down to the mouth; passing around to
the right the line is drawn upward over the left cheek; the hand continues to move outside
of the mask to a point below the right cheek, then up the right cheek. The younger children’s
hands were guided by the representatives of the gods. It would be a great fatality to sprinkle
a drop of meal over the eye holes; the individual committing such an error would become blind
at least in one eye. Great care is also taken that the line is run up the cheek, for if it
was run down not only would vegetation be stunted, but the lives of the people would become
so, as all people and things should aim upward not downward. The line running down through
the center of the face calls upon the gods above to send down rain upon the earth and health
to all people. Two or three children started through ignorance to run the meal down one of
the cheeks; they were instantly stopped by Hasjelti, but not until the people looking on had
expressed great horror. All in the line having gone through this ceremony the crowd of spectators
sprinkled the masks in the same manner. I was requested to sprinkle them, and at the same time
was specially instructed to run the lines up the cheeks. This closed the ceremony of initiation.
The boys were then permitted to go around at will and look at the masks and enter the lodge
and view the sand painting. Hasjelti and Hostjoboard returned to the lodge, carrying their
masks in their hands.

