The hawker's little book, which I purchased, was a curious mixture. Side by side with the flippant,
rowdy nonsense of the Paris music- halls, there were many pastoral pieces, not without a touch
of poetry, I thought, and instinct with the brave independence of the poorer class in France.
There you might read how the wood-cutter gloried in his axe, and the gardener scorned to be
ashamed of his spade.  It was not very well written, this poetry of labour, but the pluck of
the sentiment redeemed what was weak or wordy in the expression.  The martial and the patriotic
pieces, on the other hand, were tearful, womanish productions one and all.  The poet had passed
under the Caudine Forks; he sang for an army visiting the tomb of its old renown, with arms
reversed; and sang not of victory, but of death.  There was a number in the hawker's collection
called 'Conscrits Francais,' which may rank among the most dissuasive war-lyrics on record.
It would not be possible to fight at all in such a spirit.  The bravest conscript would turn
pale if such a ditty were struck up beside him on the morning of battle; and whole regiments
would pile their arms to its tune.

If Fletcher of Saltoun is in the right about the influence of national songs, you would say
France was come to a poor pass.  But the thing will work its own cure, and a sound-hearted
and courageous people weary at length of snivelling over their disasters.  Already Paul Deroulede
has written some manly military verses.  There is not much of the trumpet note in them, perhaps,
to stir a man's heart in his bosom; they lack the lyrical elation, and move slowly; but they
are written in a grave, honourable, stoical spirit, which should carry soldiers far in a good
cause.  One feels as if one would like to trust Deroulede with something.  It will be happy
if he can so far inoculate his fellow-countrymen that they may be trusted with their own future.
And in the meantime, here is an antidote to 'French Conscripts' and much other doleful versification.

We had left the boats over-night in the custody of one whom we shall call Carnival.  I did
not properly catch his name, and perhaps that was not unfortunate for him, as I am not in a
position to hand him down with honour to posterity.  To this person's premises we strolled
in the course of the day, and found quite a little deputation inspecting the canoes.  There
was a stout gentleman with a knowledge of the river, which he seemed eager to impart.  There
was a very elegant young gentleman in a black coat, with a smattering of English, who led the
talk at once to the Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race.  And then there were three handsome girls
from fifteen to twenty; and an old gentleman in a blouse, with no teeth to speak of, and a
strong country accent.  Quite the pick of Origny, I should suppose.

The Cigarette had some mysteries to perform with his rigging in the coach-house; so I was left
to do the parade single-handed.  I found myself very much of a hero whether I would or not.
The girls were full of little shudderings over the dangers of our journey.  And I thought it
would be ungallant not to take my cue from the ladies. My mishap of yesterday, told in an off-hand
way, produced a deep sensation.  It was Othello over again, with no less than three Desdemonas
and a sprinkling of sympathetic senators in the background.  Never were the canoes more flattered,
or flattered more adroitly.

'It is like a violin,' cried one of the girls in an ecstasy.

'I thank you for the word, mademoiselle,' said I.  'All the more since there are people who
call out to me that it is like a coffin.'

'Oh! but it is really like a violin.  It is finished like a violin,' she went on.

'And polished like a violin,' added a senator.

'One has only to stretch the cords,' concluded another, 'and then tum-tumty-tum'--he imitated
the result with spirit.

Was not this a graceful little ovation?  Where this people finds the secret of its pretty speeches,
I cannot imagine; unless the secret should be no other than a sincere desire to please? But
then no disgrace is attached in France to saying a thing neatly; whereas in England, to talk
like a book is to give in one's resignation to society.

The old gentleman in the blouse stole into the coach-house, and somewhat irrelevantly informed
the Cigarette that he was the father of the three girls and four more:  quite an exploit for
a Frenchman.

'You are very fortunate,' answered the Cigarette politely.

And the old gentleman, having apparently gained his point, stole away again.

We all got very friendly together.  The girls proposed to start with us on the morrow, if you
please!  And, jesting apart, every one was anxious to know the hour of our departure.  Now,
when you are going to crawl into your canoe from a bad launch, a crowd, however friendly, is
undesirable; and so we told them not before twelve, and mentally determined to be off by ten
at latest.

Towards evening, we went abroad again to post some letters.  It was cool and pleasant; the
long village was quite empty, except for one or two urchins who followed us as they might have
followed a menagerie; the hills and the tree-tops looked in from all sides through the clear
air; and the bells were chiming for yet another service.

Suddenly we sighted the three girls standing, with a fourth sister, in front of a shop on the
wide selvage of the roadway.  We had been very merry with them a little while ago, to be sure.
But what was the etiquette of Origny?  Had it been a country road, of course we should have
spoken to them; but here, under the eyes of all the gossips, ought we to do even as much as
bow?  I consulted the Cigarette.

'Look,' said he.

I looked.  There were the four girls on the same spot; but now four backs were turned to us,
very upright and conscious.  Corporal Modesty had given the word of command, and the well-disciplined
picket had gone right-about-face like a single person.  They maintained this formation all
the while we were in sight; but we heard them tittering among themselves, and the girl whom
we had not met laughed with open mouth, and even looked over her shoulder at the enemy.  I
wonder was it altogether modesty after all? or in part a sort of country provocation?

As we were returning to the inn, we beheld something floating in the ample field of golden
evening sky, above the chalk cliffs and the trees that grow along their summit.  It was too
high up, too large, and too steady for a kite; and as it was dark, it could not be a star.
For although a star were as black as ink and as rugged as a walnut, so amply does the sun bathe
heaven with radiance, that it would sparkle like a point of light for us.  The village was
dotted with people with their heads in air; and the children were in a bustle all along the
street and far up the straight road that climbs the hill, where we could still see them running
in loose knots.  It was a balloon, we learned, which had left Saint Quentin at half-past five
that evening.  Mighty composedly the majority of the grown people took it.  But we were English,
and were soon running up the hill with the best.  Being travellers ourselves in a small way,
we would fain have seen these other travellers alight.

