However, we had a Lynch living in the town; and the more I reflected upon his impending doom,
the more I could not sleep. It seemed my plain duty to save him, and a still plainer and more
important duty to get some sleep for myself, so at last I ventured to go to Mr. Lynch and tell
him what was about to happen to him--under strict secrecy. I advised him to 'fly,' and certainly
expected him to do it. But he laughed at me; and he did not stop there; he led me down to the
carpenter's shop, gave the carpenter a jeering and scornful lecture upon his silly pretensions,
slapped his face, made him get down on his knees and beg--then went off and left me to contemplate
the cheap and pitiful ruin of what, in my eyes, had so lately been a majestic and incomparable
hero. The carpenter blustered, flourished his knife, and doomed this Lynch in his usual volcanic
style, the size of his fateful words undiminished; but it was all wasted upon me; he was a
hero to me no longer, but only a poor, foolish, exposed humbug. I was ashamed of him, and ashamed
of myself; I took no further interest in him, and never went to his shop any more. He was a
heavy loss to me, for he was the greatest hero I had ever known. The fellow must have had some
talent; for some of his imaginary murders were so vividly and dramatically described that I
remember all their details yet.

The people of Hannibal are not more changed than is the town. It is no longer a village; it
is a city, with a mayor, and a council, and water- works, and probably a debt.  It has fifteen
thousand people, is a thriving and energetic place, and is paved like the rest of the west
and south--where a well-paved street and a good sidewalk are things so seldom seen, that one
doubts them when he does see them. The customary half-dozen railways center in Hannibal now,
and there is a new depot which cost a hundred thousand dollars. In my time the town had no
specialty, and no commercial grandeur; the daily packet usually landed a passenger and bought
a catfish, and took away another passenger and a hatful of freight; but now a huge commerce
in lumber has grown up and a large miscellaneous commerce is one of the results.  A deal of
money changes hands there now.

Bear Creek--so called, perhaps, because it was always so particularly bare of bears--is hidden
out of sight now, under islands and continents of piled lumber, and nobody but an expert can
find it. I used to get drowned in it every summer regularly, and be drained out, and inflated
and set going again by some chance enemy; but not enough of it is unoccupied now to drown a
person in. It was a famous breeder of chills and fever in its day. I remember one summer when
everybody in town had this disease at once.  Many chimneys were shaken down, and all the houses
were so racked that the town had to be rebuilt. The chasm or gorge between Lover's Leap and
the hill west of it is supposed by scientists to have been caused by glacial action. This is
a mistake.

There is an interesting cave a mile or two below Hannibal, among the bluffs. I would have liked
to revisit it, but had not time.  In my time the person who then owned it turned it into a
mausoleum for his daughter, aged fourteen. The body of this poor child was put into a copper
cylinder filled with alcohol, and this was suspended in one of the dismal avenues of the cave.
The top of the cylinder was removable; and it was said to be a common thing for the baser order
of tourists to drag the dead face into view and examine it and comment upon it.