How happily did the four children and the good governess dine together that day before the
open window, where they could smell the sweet flowers in the garden below, and see a large
pool which was beyond the trees, and still beyond that the green heights of the park.

"I see people," said Henry, whose eyes were everywhere, "going up the park by that pretty white
building which looks like a temple with a porch--there they go--I see women and children--and
there are men carrying baskets. What are they doing, ma'am?" he added, looking at Mrs. Colvin.

"Taking a pleasant walk this fine afternoon," she answered; "and we will walk too by-and-by,
but upon one condition, as it is so very warm, that after dinner you will each of you take
a book and sit quite still, until I speak the word for all to move."

"Might I play with Noah's ark, ma'am, instead?" said Henry; "I will not move."

"Very well," said Mrs. Colvin; and when they had dined, she directed Lucy and Emily to choose
their books and sit down in any place they chose.

Miss Darwell also took a book, as did Mrs. Colvin; and so still was everyone, that it might
have been thought that there was not a creature in the room but the Seven Sleepers, unless
it might be two or three bees which came buzzing in and out.

"How pleasant," thought Mrs. Colvin, "it is to have to do with well-behaved children! I should
not mind having these little Fairchilds always with me, at least till Henry is fit only to
be managed by men."

Lucy and Emily wished much to know what was going to be done in the park, but they did not
find the time long. Lucy had chosen the History of Mrs. Teachum, and Emily the Adventures of
Robin, Dicksy, Flapsy, and Pecksy, quite a new book, which she had never seen before. The great
people in the parlour were to dine at four o'clock, that they also might go into the park afterwards;
and a little before four the waiting-maid came up with the best things for Master and the Misses
Fairchild, packed in a bandbox, the pretty presents of Miss Crosbie not having been forgotten.

When Mrs. Colvin saw the box she called the children to her; they all came running but Henry.

"Now, my dears," she said, "you have been very quiet, and it is time to dress;" and she offered
the maid's help to dress Lucy and Emily.

"No, thank you, ma'am," said Lucy; "we have no one to wait upon us at home; we always dress
each other." Truth
is always left alone in the fight. Not by chance was if any of his daughters support him. For
matters outside the rentist address of the house often the opinions were based, some daughters
sided with his dad against sisters. But as looming economic problems, constantly looked to
Retired one side and the other four daughters. D. Christopher, as experienced leader, appealed
to These skirmishes with thousands of tricks to defeat their opponents, or to capitulate in
good condition. One day the girls would wake inspired, and called morocco leather boots were similar
to those seen such and such a city girl, usually Fernanda Estrada-Rosa. D. Christopher immediately
retreated into himself. Fell back and meditated. At night, when dinner, slip into the conversation
the news that he had been in The Innovative (shoe estate). He had been told that the boots of
morocco gave very bad result in Lancia, because moisture. Moreover, D. Nicanor (Medical City),
who happened to there morocco had stated that the weather was dismal as cold and rainy, and by
the feet got caught colds many times later degenerated into galloping consumption, etc. Before,
long before Matthew ended his diatribe against morocco, gutted it four buds with ironic laughter
and ponderous words left confused and sad the poor old man. At other times, the heated imagination of
girls required to come Madrid some very nice coats, which had given news Amalia D. Christopher some
time resisted the attacks, but looking very tight, finally capitulated. His mind, rich in trace
amounts, like Ulysses, he suggested to save a magnificent half money at least. He went to Amalia
and begged to give him your coat for two or three days, so that one of the dressmakers of four
other people do him the same. Exigiole by Of course, secrecy, and knew Mrs. Quiñones storage.
But alas! not kept the perfidious coats who arrived very empaquetaditos of the chaise, and
to offer the anxious looks and wizards of its four owners, it was heralded very high, so poor
of ornamentation and of sewing Tinker.

- These wraps are not made in Madrid - resolutely said Michelle, who was the most nervous four.

-
Daughter, no rave, by God! For where they should be? - Exclaims D. Cristobal affected surprise,
feeling a warmth in her cheeks.

- Do not know, but certainly we can ensure that they have not done
in Madrid.

And the four nymphs begin to spin between your fingers ebony coats,
the students, analyze them with attentive care that is suspended and
terror to his father.

They address meaningful glances, smiling contemptuously spoken in his ear. Meanwhile, fierce Overseas
retired whiskers bristle, shudder with slight tremor which communicates to his lips and then
to the rest of the body.

Finally, those elegant creatures carelessly loose garments mocker
on living room chairs and are to be locked in the cabinet of Jovita.

About half an hour were secret deliberations. D. Christopher waited anxious and haggard, walking
with agitation by the broker as a defendant who awaits the verdict of the jury.

Finally open the door, and criminal searches forward to the faces
of the judges.

These keep quiet attitude, and her lips an enigmatic smile faded vague. Two They immediately put
the blanket and gloves and take to the street. After become the home for a while shaking, with
the broken face and sparkling eyes. Pen refuses to tell the cruel scene which occurred in
the sweet home of the retired. Much rabid cry! Much sarcasm! How hysterical laughter! What
manoteo! What gnashing of chairs! Why so sad exclamations! And in the midst of this horrible
disorder, that heat, capable of infusing struck fear in the heart most serene, four shelters,
because of such carnage, torn, made miserable rags, crawling with ignominy by the ground in
return for his crime.

Apart from these periodic shocks to the wisdom of nature invigorated
nerves a bit unnerved and the retired, the existence of this peaceful
and smooth gliding.

Ni also lacked many painstaking care. His daughters were engaged in putting in contention
everything you need ready and in place: planed clothes, shirts and underwear smelling freshness
ties, made of old clothes, as brand new as if saliesen of the glove, sneakers entered the
house as, the water to wash the feet, Saturday, a cigar at bedtime glass of lemon water in
the morning, etc., etc. All regularly marched with the sweet and mechanical cause much pleasure
to the old. Truth four could well do without bothering too much, especially bearing in mind that
girls were not always inspired. Only the sight of a whimsical hat, or receiving news of the
arrival of a dramatic company, or the announcement that the casino would give a Trust meeting,
sudden burning in their hearts the sacred fire of inspiration, despertábanse his powerful poetic
powers, and flight taken out of the house and threw the the dressmaker, the glove, the perfume,
leaving all signs of their sites agitation and profecticio peculio somewhere. While allying
No outbursts of fantasy with the prose of the details of existence, they suffered some alteration. D.
Christopher in periods of crisis missed less, with regret, a few tweaks. More soon time calmed
the spasms of the mediums and things returned to their being and life was the same orderly
and peaceful course. The name of the former, in order of age, was as follows: Jovita, Micaela, Socorro
and Emily. It was four apparently insignificant creatures, neither beautiful nor ugly, neither
funny nor unhappy, neither too young nor old, neither sad nor smiling. There was nothing in
them that fixed the attention. However, within the home the each character and acquired pronounced
relief. Jovita was sentimental and reserved; Micaela had a violent temper, Socorro was the kettle,
and Emily the most pert.

The two strong concerns that filled the spiritual life of D. Christopher Matthew were reduction
of military contingent and their four daughters to marry, or at least two. The first had a good
way: some time ago came the most conspicuous political leaning to
that view.

Regarding the latter, it hurts us to say that he had no likelihood of class. Or by sacrificing
other amenities to rags, or showing up without limit to the balcony and on field trips or to attend
the soirees of Quinones with a constancy worthy of being awarded, could get up to the present time the
precious gifts of Hymen. When a reckless touched this issue in check, all said that while their
father lived cost very sorry to marry, that it seemed cruel to leave an old man who both wanted
and both were sacrificed by them, etc ... Here came a hearty praise of the spiritual gifts D. Cristobal.
But he was in charge of backing out innocently, showing such desire of being abandoned, so lively
a desire to experience that cruelty, which was already proverbial in Lancia. As if they alone
were not enough to make a fool, poor Matthew helped them effectively, through the eyes metiéndoselas
all marriageable young city.

The weights that the good father was the character, skill, economy and good government of their
daughters had no purpose. So a stranger came to Lancia, D. Christopher no calmed to get acquainted
with him and invited him to act continuous coffee at home and brought
him to the theater to his box and snack to the field and accompanied
him to see the relics the cathedral and the tower and the natural
history cabinet, all the curiosities, in short, which contained the
population.

The audience attending smiling, sly look at him leaf through, already had repeated portion of
times without success. The only one that did have a boyfriend for three or four years was Jovita.
So it was also the one that plunged the highest. Heartthrob stranger was a student that was celebrated
as the last years of the race. Been completed, he left his people and, forgetting his promises
of marriage, contracted with a rich palette. The others had not reached that lofty level of
the hierarchy of love. Vague inclinations, dreams of fifteen days, a bone down the street, nothing
between two dishes. Gradually they were coming over the cold disappointment. Although they had
not lost hope, were fatigued. The thought fixed, only that the embargo on so long, was becoming
a painful nail in the forehead. But D. Christopher or surrendered or passed through his imagination
to capitulate. Always believed blindly in the husband of daughters, and announced with the same
security as the Old Testament prophets of the coming the Messiah.

- As my daughters get married, instead of spending the summer in Sarrió, where are kept the same Lancia
cloud that, I'll go Rodillero to fresh air and fishing robalizas .-- Hear, Michelle, do not
be so lively, woman ... Understand that your husband does not have to like these geniuses;
want to answer you with reasons ...

- My husband is content with what you give - answered the girl making
a funny nerve moue of disdain.

- What if he gets angry? - Wondered
Emilita malicious tone.

- It has two jobs: one, the other the angry
and casual.

- What if you walk with the package?

- It will keep
well!

Would be able to poison!

- Jesus, the horror - the three mermaids cried laughing.

One husband scenario, that being abstract out all the time in conversation with same reality
as if it were flesh and blood and was in the adjoining room.

The starting now typing on the piano was Emilita, the most musical
of the four sisters.

The other three were on their feet, holding the sleeve of his coat
of many other young people; as it were, into the breach.

The count ran a few steps with Fernanda Rosa Estrada-coming arm in
arm with a friend.

Apparently it did not want to dance. It was the girl who had more sheen in the city for its beauty
and elegance and her dowry. The only child of D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, the richest banker and
businessman of the province.

Tall, plump, dark brown, good and strong features, eyes large, very black, looking disdainfully,
imposing, graceful figure enhanced by a costume luxurious and elegant that it was the amazement and
envy of the girls in the population. There seemed Indian lady but transported from the aristocratic
salons of the court.

- Fernanda How elegant! - Said the Count quietly, bowing involvement.

Beauty hardly deigned to smile, extending a little lower lip with a slight sneer.

- How are you, Luis? - Said extending his hand with marked indifference.

-
Not as good as you ... but in the end, I have visited.

- Nothing
more than passing?

... Sorry.

I will most perfectly, no you're wrong - said in the same dismissive tone, without looking at his
face.

- How not to be everywhere that show the star Sirius?

- Exemption,
boy, do not understand astronomy.

- Sirius is the brightest star
in the sky.

That's what everybody knows.

- Well, I did not know ... You see, as I am a paddle!

- Not true, but is fine modesty, coupled with the beauty and talent.

-
No, if I know full well that I have no talent.

Do not beat yourself up to tell me.

- Daughter, you express just the opposite ...

The dismissive tone
of Fernanda was entering a bit of bitterness.

In the count's, paused, ceremonious, cautioned slight hint of irony.

-
Come on, then you have understood backwards.

- Some of it has been
forever.

- Wow, what a gallant! - Said the little pale.

- Whenever
you thought you could tell something unpleasant - was quick to rectify
the Earl, warned by the change in appearance of the idea crossed his
mind.

- Thank you.

I believe your words as they deserve.

- You would do wrong not sincere esteem ... Also, I need not tell
you how much you're worth.

That's what everybody knows.

- Thank you.

Are you tired of playing?

- It hurts a little grinding.

- Take it off.

- Are all?

- Those
who hurt you, son.

Ave Maria!

- With what indifference you say!

You do not mind anything, of course?

- I always feel the ills of others.

- The neighbor! What horror!

Was not aware of having already reached the category of neighbor.

- What is it, boy, the honors come when least expected.

In spite of the flippant and even aggressive tone, Fernanda did not move the site, taking always
arm in arm to the friend, who did not open his lips.

By looking a little, might note that the heiress was very nervous. With his foot was tapping on
the floor, clutched in his hand with the tissue contractions alive and his lips trembled so
almost imperceptible. Some Arabs beautiful eyes marked a paler circle than usual. He's interested
in boxing.

The Count de Onis had been of her boyfriends that lasted longer. Appearing Fernanda in society, and even
before, when she was a zagalita the maid was going to school was her figure, elegance and
above all the threat of the six million that were to fall, walking time, in her lap, an explosion
of enthusiasm. There were no more or less handsome young or wealthy on his own initiative or
by the insinuations of his family is not resolved to pasearle the street to meet her at the exit
of the school, to send little notes and compliments tell on the ride. De Sarria, snow and
other towns in the province also attended, under the pretext of the fairs, some greedy. The girl,
boasts with such compliance, drunk with incense, he did not rest point taking and releasing
boyfriends. It was rare that the gallant lasted more than a couple of months in his grace.
In reality none were in a position to deserve it. In Lancia and the rest of the province who
have had their finances provided dowry. If any existed, was not qualified by age to marry so
young bud. Would be some Indian tropical damaged by the heat, or rustic and solitary mayorazgo
those living in their ancestral homes. Without his father warned, the she understood that none
suited him admirably, but he enjoyed flirting with everyone, worship of youth becoming laciense.
Among the latter was, however, a young man to which no city girl had dared to raise his eyes
up with desires then marriage. It was the Count de Onis. Because of its high ranking, most
respected in the provinces where be taxed to the nobility a cult
that reveals the villain and the servant under the coat of bourgeois
with its large income from the apartment of his life and even the
mystery and silence its ancient palace, seemed to dwell in the upper
atmosphere, sheltered from the arrows of all indigenous beauties.

So precisely because he was born in the bosom of Fernanda a desire, first vaguely, then live and
yearning, of surrender. This is very human, and totally feminine needs no explanation. At the
bottom of his soul, the daughter of Rosa Estrada-felt inferior to the Count de Onis. However,
such was the adulation he had heard in some time, as shining the bright scattered about his life
dad money, which might well aspire to make her husband. If you did not think so well, at least figuratively
speaking thought the count, behind, with some disdain and familiarity affected ahead. In Lancia,
as in all small capitals, boys and girls used first-name basis. The known since childhood and have
perhaps played on the tour together authorized it. The Count de Onis had never crossed the floor
with Fernanda, although stumble every moment on the street. However, when they met for the first
time in the party of the de Mere, he gave a beautiful round and deleted your title. Luis here, Luis
beyond: seemed about to eat his name. To him the confidence was a little surprised, not dislike.
No one was hurt tutear heard by a pretty lady. Despite the concentrated nature shy of the count
and his little womanizing, Fernanda he soon contrived to make her boyfriend or at least to make such
a move by the public eye. Who found this dating perfectly justified. In Lancia had another
husband or another woman to Fernanda Count. The distance between them was retrospective, was in the
ancestors. The population believed that, for the sake of beauty, money and education of the
young bright, Count de Onis was in the case of forgetting the two
hundred and farmhands who had preceded them.

About a year lasting relationships. The couple were seen in the gathering of the ladies de Mere.
D. Juan Estrada, Rosa, in the words of his close friends, was very pleased. Several times had
suggested to the county to enter into the house, but he had not understood or had pretended not
to understand him. Fernanda is clearly suggested by one day. He escaped as could compromise. Was
it shyness? Was it pride? The same Fernanda did not realize it. But this book helped rekindle
their affection and longing. Suddenly, when least expected, when the public began to wonder
why the wedding was delayed, those cortáronse relationships. Were cut without scandal, of a
diplomatic and secretive, therefore he did More than a month that did not exist when the population
was not yet aware and friends they were kidding. The fact there was strong feeling, was mentioned
in all gatherings to infinity. Never could figure out what had been, or even which of the two
corresponded the initiative of this break. If you asked the count, said flatly that Fernanda
had left, but went too hard in this statement that did not begin to doubt their sincerity. The
heir-Rosa Estrada, without showing anything in particular, confirmed the words of her boyfriend
with surly tone he used talking about it, as well as to guide word. Because they followed the case,
if not as often, quite: both came to the gathering where they met. In addition, Fernanda, shortly
after, he began attending to the Sunday soirees at the home of Quiñones. But never again resumed
their broken relationships. Attendees suspended breath and put his whole soul into the eyes
if, as Now, former boyfriends encountered and chatted for a while. "Back on track? Will, finally
wedding? The disappointment came immediately to see the indifference with which it departs.

When I went to answer the last words of the proud heir, the Count's eyes, shedding a distracted
gaze around the room, they met others who had stuck into shining
and jealous.

She reached her friend and said with a forced smile:

- How badly are you trying, Fernanda! As always, of course ... I,
however, you know ... the same devoted idolater.

Until now.

- I feel that this devotion does not cause me cold or hot - she replied without taking a step away.

The
count gave him shrugging his shoulders in resignation and saying:

- More I'm sorry!

Sorting dancing partners, who had begun the quadrille, came back to where he was the mistress of
the house. Beside it was at that moment the famous Manuel Antonio, a of the most noteworthy
at the time that we historian. He was known thus the nickname the fag Sierra as its name.

This
is enough to know somewhat what to expect regarding their moral properties and physical. Manuel
Antonio was not young. Frisaría in fifty years, disguised with effort heroic by any battery known
then Lancia cosmetics, which were not many do very refined. A rudimentary wig, some false teeth
fitted incorrectly, a little black on the eyebrows and lipstick, much patchouli and a fancy dress
appropriate to highlight the waste of her beauty. It had been wonderful, a rare perfection of face
and figure. Tall, slim, slim, good features, tiny, blonde hair, fine, falling into graceful
curls, rosy cheeks and high-pitched voice. From this set gorgeous was only a shadow where he could
guess. The back was arched upright; the beautiful curls were gone like a happy dream, some unseemly
wrinkles that furrowed forehead, and the row of pearls, which he held his mouth, had become yellow
bone race, rickety, that time and the dentist was inducted awkwardly replaced. Finally, the
small silky mustache had thickened considerably, it was white bristly, unruly, not enough
dye and cosmetics to keep presentable.

What a pain to the beautiful hermaphrodite Lancia and also for friends who had known him in
the glory of his grace!
The spirit remained as young as ten and eight years. It was the same
to be passionate and tender, sweet at times, angry and terrible other,
marching to the breath of his whims, languid living in idleness.

"I am sure," said Henry, "the room is good enough for her:" and he was going to say more, when
his sisters stopped him, and begged him not to listen. "I don't listen," he answered; "I hear
without listening."

They were interrupted by Mrs. Fairchild, who came to tell them that their grandmother had asked
for them. Mrs. Fairchild walked first, and opened the drawing-room door; there they saw their
grandmother. She was a neat little old lady in black, exactly such as they fancied Mrs. Howard
had been. She was seated, and looked very pale. At the sight of them she became paler than
before; she held out her hands to them, and they all three rushed into her arms.

"My children, my precious children!" said the old lady, kissing one and another as they pressed
forward.

"We will be your own grandchildren," said Lucy; "we will comfort you and read to you, and do
everything for you. Do not be unhappy, dear grandmamma, we will all be your own children."

The old lady was scarcely able to speak, but she murmured to herself:

"Yes, my God is good, I am not left without comfort."

"Stand back, my dears," said Mrs. Fairchild, "and let your grandmamma look at you quietly--you
overpower her."

They drew back. The old lady wiped away a tear or two which dimmed her sight, and then, with
a gentle smile, she looked first at Lucy.

"She has the oval face and gentle look so dear to me," said the old lady; "this is Lucy. Will
Lucy love me?"

The little girl, being thus called upon, fell again on grandmamma's neck, and quite sobbed
with feeling; she soon, however, recovered herself, and pointing to her sister:

"This is Emily, grandmamma," she said.

"Another Emily!" replied the old lady, "I am rich indeed!" and, fixing her eyes on the younger
little girl, "I could almost think I had my child again. Daughter," she added, speaking to
Mrs. Fairchild, "do my eyes deceive me? Is there not a likeness? But your little girls are
such exactly as I fondly wished them to be. And this is Henry, our youngest one;" and she took
his hand in hers, and said, "Did you expect to see grandmamma looking so very old, my little man?"

"No, ma'am," replied Henry, "not quite so old;" and the little boy made a bow, thinking how
very civil he ought to be to his own father's mother.

"He does not mean to be rude, ma'am," said Lucy.

"I see it, my dear," replied the old lady, smiling. "Do not, I pray you, say anything to destroy
his honesty--the world will soon enough teach him to use deception."

Henry did not understand all this, but fearing, perhaps, to lose his place as grandmamma's
horse, he took the occasion to ask if he might not be her horse.

"What is it, my child?" said the old lady.

"May I be your horse, ma'am?" he said.

"My horse?" repeated the old lady, looking for an explanation from Lucy; and when she had got
it, she made him quite happy by assuring him that no horse could please her better.

She did not drink tea that evening with the family, and went very early to bed; but having
seen them all that evening, she was ready to meet them more calmly in the morning, and quite
prepared to rejoice in the blessing of having such grandchildren to make up her losses.

Great Changes

Henry arose the next morning as soon as he heard the step of John in the garden, and was very
soon with him, asking him what he could do to help him. Henry loved to help John.

John did not answer in his own cheerful way, but said:

"I don't know, Master Henry; it can't much matter now, I reckon, what we do, or what we leave
undone."

"Why, John?" said Henry.

"You will know soon enough," John answered, "but it shan't be from me you shall learn it. I
suppose, however," he added, "that we must get the peas for dinner; folks must eat, though
the world should come to an end next Michaelmas."

"What is the matter, John?" said Henry; "I am sure something is." Expected a visit of interest no doubt, but he received was to Rosalia very nice weekend,
well renovated, very fresh and fantastic as well as when he went to theater.

"You're not good - he said with affectionate candor -. I understand, because these things are impressive,
I think you serenarte and try to give everything to oblivion ... A man like you ...! Yes, you will
find women in their thousands ... and a thousand times more beautiful, a thousand times more
interesting ... So what? Have you been? I presume not, because I sent word to his house and is
not there and nobody knows his whereabouts. Te I swear that's a shame because ... Poor thing!
If after all not bad background.

Among these unfortunate, there are excellent natural and even hints of dignity. What is waiting
appearances no one will win this. "

As he did not answer anything, he seemed more attentive to the flowers of the carpet to said
her cousin, this was to give another address to his affection.

"I repeat that you are not good.

You verdigris color ... To see the pulse? Burning ... Rest son, rest is good for you. Not receive
one, do not talk, do not write. Lie on the couch and wrap the rug. I'll take care, for your health
as well I can leave all my obligations.

I do drink, I'll be here all day, and if you get really bad, I'll stay all night also. "

Augustine rejected the idea of ​​illness.

Between one and another pause, slid Rosalia tips warnings and full of sweetness and friendship
... "Do not take it so hard ... If you had consulted time with me ... It is best to go to bed
... 're cold. "

Later, much later, Augustine, playing without reservation as spontaneous
and natural in his soul existed, let's say these solemn words:

"That
woman has me stuck in the heart, and I can not get started."

Upon hearing this, Rosalie took his abode in cashmere and body. It was hot. To comfort his
cousin threw strings of sentences, full of loving and thoughtful
expressions.

Amid of them came up Doña Marcelina Polo, the only person who could
provide damning news the fact, as having written testimony.

"Where do you live that lady?" - Told Knight with momentum -.

Right now I go there.

- It's too late. By God, do not get well.

You look like a character in a novel.

That lady and living with her to bed when the chickens. Tomorrow you can go but not early, because
since the dawn of the three to leave the church. It is best if you send a message to Philip
to set your time.

Entered D. Francisco, who came from their walk.

"What ?...».

- I tell him to get into bed and not want to listen to me.

- Bet
that's it slander? - Thiers said kindly.

Augustine begged them to stay for lunch, which they gladly accepted. Centeno was Costanilla
to tell Prudence (aka Calamity) to give food to the children, because parents would not return
home until late.

XXXVI

Wednesday! ... A worthy successor to the previous day, was all damp
and gloom, the sky crying, the land turned into dirty lake and thick.

You'd think that a large mass of gray chocolate had spilled on the streets. The umbrella flocks
were moving along the sidewalks, cediéndose step with difficulty and covering poor people.
Spouts jets playing drum beats on them, and it lunged at each other, they pecked, scratched. Hats could
be seen like springs, and faces like those of newts and nymphs Marble played the wettest of roles in public
sources.

Augustine looked at this behind the glass of the balcony of his room, and the sound of that
sadness time itself was sung without music this elegy:

"Why did not you stay in Brownsville, gross? Who bade thee meddle in civilization? And you see ...
to the first change since you've been cheated.

You all play as a boy or a savage. When distrust, you're wrong. When you think you are wrong
too. This world is not for you. Your world is the Rio Grande del Norte and the Sierra Madre;
your company the Indian mobs of adventurers brave and ferocious socialize your revolver, your
ideal the money. Who do you get into these wanderings?

Some of fas nefas and others all laugh at you and bamboozle you and exploit you. "

- Lord - Felipe said entering the room -. Doña Marcelina is in the church. Another lady who
lives with her, and whom I know, I am told that you can go to twelve.

D. Francisco soon appeared with a smiling face and wet Carriker. His wife was busy with dance
clothing, and could not come until after noon.

Spoke after so much disturbed the Indian, and Thiers brought out
as a mitigating and conciliatory he suggested his goodness.

It was all slander, and Augustine had better not metiese more inquiries.

Much was saddened that his cousin told him: "One of two things: either I go back to Brownsville,
or me montera put the world. "

They lunched together, and before lunch concluded, Bringas rose from the table impatient eagerness.
He had an idea, and hastened to perform it, confident in the safety
of success.

He left hurriedly to go where we know.

While Rosalie was not claimed that Amparito at home, he might be
back now.

Maybe the neighbors knew the whereabouts of the two sisters. Forward, noble heart, and fear
not.

Knight came later, and by the nuns, the Postigo, Hita Street, the
alley Dog, etc ... went to the streets of the Star.

It is easy to assume that was a humorous thousand demons and did not know to choose between
doubt and certainty of his misfortune.

That such Doña Marcelina, what breed of bird would be?

This is thought to climb the ladder of the house that, older than speak evil. Called, and a maid
told the lady had not come yet, but that does not take even five minutes. We went to the room, and when
a lady was waiting there presentósele very singular appearance, white, fine, clean and airy,
an elderly woman who looked like a kitten with two emeralds for eyes, and walked with feet of
wool without the steps you feel.

"Sir - you said that looking at him sweetly human relic - are you
by chance del Toboso?

".

- No, ma'am - he said - and I am not of Toboso of La Mancha.

- Ah, excuse me ...

And slipped away, looking askance at the light
spots of mud that the visitor had left on the mat.

Augustine noticed the room, which contained about seven comfortably and other furniture anticuadísimos,
but very well preserved, four crucifixes, two children and work of
Jesus four dozen films saints, with branches of evergreens, bows and
ribbons.

There soon came a semblance of mahogany carving behind a black veil.

"Are you Mr. Knight?".

- At your service ... I wanted ...

Doña Marcelina Augustine was passed immediately to a cabinet. After seeing the room seemed
that there was no more comfortable in the world. However, in that cabinet had three. A brazier
was very hot fire to the abandoned piece. The visitor and sat on Pole armchairs.

"Did you see what day?" - Said the lady, lifting her veil and publishing the bas-relief of
your face, Christian had not understood it.

- Yes, ma'am, very bad day ... Then I come to beg you to kindly give me news ...

- I know, I know - replied sternly Polo -. Can I ask you reports, background that unhappy? If
you will permit me, I will keep the greatest secrecy, it is not in
my early carry this story and deal with actions of others.

I, though I be wrong to say it, no I usually hurt even my worst enemies ... It is no praise, but
many who I have hated me full of benefits ...

- In the present case - Caballero said eagerly - you can make an exception for me, telling me
...

- High there - the austere lady interrupted.

I do not count anything, I know nothing, I have not seen nothing, absolutely nothing. What
someone comes and tells me that Amparo is a saint?

I quiet. What you come and tell me that he wants to marry her? I
quiet.

Shut up and shut up is my subject.

Today I got to God, and if he had enough strength to keep to my guns, this just give to me.

- But sir, for the love of God - Augustine said, to the fullest confession -. The truth is before
everything.

- Just some truths are not for those ... Do not ask me anything ...
my mouth is a snap ... Only I tell you, and this not because you might
be interested, but my own satisfaction, that my brother was saved,
my brother is already on its way to Marseille where released within
three days for the Philippines, my brother has a bad back, and there
in those wild lands of my brother will come to herself.

Do you know where is the island of Zamboanga?

Because I have told you, it also comes Carib land. For there, in that blissful Zamboanga my brother
landed within two months, and there will the opportunity to christen heretics and make great
achievements.

This is not to say that I absolutely trust in your salvation, since the goat as its spots, the vicious
strip ever ... to the shooting. Oh, what efforts we had to make last minute! Had you seen ...! What
hombrazo! At the station told us that there will be a cassock Nebuchadnezzar. That is what you
want as long as not return to their old ways, or appear more here ... And do not think you ...
I have a scare ...! It I figure that of Barcelona or Marseilles we returned to Madrid and I
go through the door at least we wait ... You do not know him well.

And you're supposed to lie the natural evil; as if they had not haunted, if they had not sucked
the brains, another rooster will sing.

In a state of annoyance and irritation indescribable, Knight had to restrain not make a blunder.
The truth, he felt like giving him a couple of slaps.

"Ah, - said the timber - do you know that she is not dead Celedonia poor? We took the hospital
the day after the scandal ... And even tell you another thing, I did not see nothing, I know
nothing. "

- Madam, I do not know who Caledonia, nor do I care. Come to mine. I know, I know you has two
letters ...

His irritation led him to dispense with all courtesy and sensitivity. Raised the question in rude
terms, saying:

"I need you to give me these two letters. I buy them, you hear it well, buy them. You say. "

- Oh, I do not remember that - Marcelina said, addressing one of the
comfortable.

- Shopping - Agustín repeated, tasting the bitterness
of his curiosity satisfied.

The Polo stirred a time when the top drawer. Her back was to Knight, a fairly distance. Augustine
felt rustling of papers. After a pause, the voice of Marcelina and said:

"For you must know that there's nothing here, nothing of what you want ... Touch you to another
door, here does not commit the reputation of any person, good or bad. If any rengloncillo appears
in these caches, I will follow the advice of Father Nones, who told me: 'O deliver its owner or
the flames, 'and I ...».

He turned in front of Knight with his hands behind his back.

"Nothing, sir, nothing. I keep to my guns.

I do not harm anyone or my major enemies. Before I die to stop sending me accomplish what D.
Juan Manuel, and as I have not to see the interest, and I have no
desire to do so, you attend ...».

With quick movement uncovered the brazier and threw it in his hand what he had. Knight ran to
save from the fire that threw that devilish female, but came too late. Embers were alive,
and the curious saw nothing but a paper twisted and curled thin lifting call ... Nothing but a
name he read was the signing and said: Torment. With the final or linking a garabatito ... Yes,
it was his garabatito, his person autographed in that trait looked like a curly hair.

Angry and unable to save the forms imposed upon him a good education, because he was man belonging
to nature more than the Company, which stood as something borrowed, faced the wooden effigy,
and said in the most brutal.

"I was annoyed you ... Left you with God or the Devil, who is now
in the body, and I rejoice that soon burst ...».

Escaped left, furious ... Took the direction of his house, but had
not gone twenty yards when had an inspiration, a true celestial lightning
entered his mind.

The street of Beatas was very close ... Secret instinct told him
that there could be burning disease of your questions better remedy
than elsewhere.

"Who knows - he thought his spirit gorge from confusion to another - when all I cheat and
have fun with me, she can be it tells me the truth ... Wow, that
if we leave now that he is innocent ... But where is he?, Why is he
hiding?

... I will hide it so you will not see ... Damn my blindness, my
inexperience in the world!

... Rosalia deceiving me, deceiving me and all my friends play with
this poor man, who understands riddles ... Who can tell me the truth?

... What voice hear the ringing in my soul?, "which says: kill it, or that says forgive her? Gross,
unlucky wild, you should not be out of your forests, Jurate says
yes you the truth, forgive ... Yes, the spare ... I feel like to forgive
her, Mrs. Company ... If he is guilty and is sorry, forgive her, Mrs.
Company as hell, and I pass to you by the nose.

"

"Miss Amparo - told the concierge - has gone half an hour ago with
a gentleman ...».

- With a gentleman?

- Yes, glasses ... tiny, with
a color of dried figs Carriker.

- Ah, my cousin ... Abur ...

It
seems that the devil did.

I had never walked the streets in such a hurry, and never had so
many embarrassments.

The umbrella is latching every moment with people coming in the opposite direction. You believe
that they wanted to bite and throw each other the The flooded water. Then, he kept finding
people known to each moment I stopped to ask about his health and say, "Have you seen how long?".
Reached think that had gathered on his way to mortify. And for this, Lord, had it was a commitment
that limited the number of your friends!

'D. Augustine, weather!

Tomorrow is new moon and may change "- said in the alley Dog a dependent
of Trujillo.

- Abur, Abur ...

Finally got home ... By opening the
door, said to Philip:

"Miss Amparo awaits you ...».

And he, hearing this, shook with shock and grief, curiosity and fear
of satisfying ... What would she face?, What would you say?

"And my cousin Bringas, is too?".

- No, sir, the lady came alone.

Knight went through the rooms. The first was not in the second either. What surprised him most
was hearing the tune of the birds.

But at the moment to put his foot in the second cabinet, the music suddenly stopped. Had run
the string. Silence suspended following the gig was so respectful and mournful, that Augustine
was afraid ... Well there was not. He saw a glass on the table, a bottle. Then our illustrious
friend up with some trepidation the curtain of the bedroom and saw
a foot ... Frightened stopped looking better, because the balcony
of the bedroom was closed and there was very little light ... He saw
a black skirt ... hanging arm, hand touching the ground ... a pink
ear ... a scarf covering face ... He approached the horrible suspicion
that there were no signs of life that body; so still was ... Looked
closely ... Touched, called ... Yes, living ... breathing work as
if suffering from a strong grief.

The eyes were closed, dry ...

Leaving the cabinet again, Knight
saw the recipe ... He read briefly ran out ... Felipe came to meet
in the classroom ...

"To call a doctor - said the master -.

Say, Miss came alone?, Did you take ...?». dresses

- A medicine, yes sir. He sent me to bring it to the pharmacy.

- You! ... Doomed! - Augustine said attacking the servant with such fury, that thought reached the
end of his days.

- Mr Philip ...-- stammered crying - I did the
medicine ...

- What? ... dog ... murderer.

- Do not worry ... The
pharmacist told me it was poison, and then I ... Oh, do not hit me!
... I came home, took an empty bottle, filled it with tap water ...
and burst water ...

- What banished, executioner?

- It took a little
tincture of guaiac ... brought the Doña Marta when I ached molars.

-
Call Dona Marta ... Not notify the doctor yet.

Knight returned to
the cabinet. On the table was also a letter. Breaking the envelope,
read these crooked letters written in pencil: All true. I do not deserve
forgiveness, but pity. Then I had the name of Amparo, and after the
o, garabatito ... Infamous garabatito! ... She ran to her, because
he felt moan ... The wild-eyed suicide Miron and began saying a word,
very inconsistent and without any sense.

"This is madness ... attack
to the head "- said Dona Marta, who had come hurrying ...

- To call
a doctor, no, no, not to call. Wait, wait ...

He returned to the
cabinet. Or the man was insane or lacked very little.

- Dona Marta.

-
Lord ...

- What do we do?

- This is serious. He says it is nonsense
and an ember in the head ...

- Take her home ... take her home immediately,
at his house - pulling Knight said of the confusion a clear purpose
-. Take charge you, Dona Marta, that goes well, and leave you with
it. You, Philip, you bring a car, but a decent car, a good car ...
No, better will you bring the first to find ... Dona Marta, take care
you take, and take care that nothing is missing ... Then, Felipe,
alert the doctor, a good doctor, are you?, And say going there, home
... Arropármela, say, bun ... That is not cool ... Soon; the accoutrement
... That will not be anything.

Under these orders, looked even from
the cabinet, though pitiful beautiful picture: the foot discovered,
the hanging arm, the pale oval face, the mouth half open ... Oh, sweet
clothes ...! With broken heart my man locked himself in his office
... If you do not cry was because I could, which did not lack desire.

XXXVII

Four
days later, according to insurance data, supplied by the diligent
observation of Rye, was D. Agustin Caballero in the self and a convalescent
state of severe disease. Its wrong color and allowances announced
insomnia, bad temper and mood disorder, a manifestation perhaps liver,
complicated with melancholy or depressive feelings. And it is noteworthy
that had seldom been our good friend so talkative, only speaking great
things they are said to himself.

"This lady had four daughters before she had a son; not one of these daughters ever married.
They were reared in the greatest pride, and no one was found good enough to marry them. There
was Mistress Anne, and Mistress Catherine, and Mistress Elizabeth, and Mistress Jane, for in
these old days the title of Miss was not often used.

"After many years, Mrs. Vaughan added a son to her family, and soon afterwards became a widow.

"This son lived many years unmarried, and was what you, my children, would call an old man,
when he took a young and noble wife. The daughter and only child of this Mr. Vaughan was about
my age, and she is the person whose history I am going to tell you.

"There is a picture of her at The Grove in the room in which your dear cousins spent many of
their early days. It is drawn at full length, and is as large as life. It represents a child,
of maybe five years of age, in a white frock, placing a garland on the head of a lamb; behind
the child, an old-fashioned garden is represented, and a distant view of The Grove house in
which she was born."

"But, grandmamma," said Henry, "you have not told us that little girl's name."

"Her name was Evelyn," answered the old lady; "the only person I ever knew with that name."

"But it is a pretty one," remarked Lucy.

"There were a great many people to make a great bustle about little Evelyn, when she came:
there were her own mother and her father, and there were the four proud aunts, and many servants
and other persons under the family, for it was known that if no more children were born, Evelyn
would have all her father's lands, and houses, and parks, and all her mother's and aunts' money
and jewels.

"But, with all these great expectations, Evelyn's life began with sorrow. Her mother died before
she could speak, and her father also, very soon after he had caused her picture to be drawn
with the lamb."

"Poor little girl!" said Lucy; "all her riches could not buy her another papa and mamma. But
what became of her then, grandmamma?"

"She was taken," added the old lady, "to live under the care of her aunts, at the curious old
house I spoke of as being close at the end of the town of Reading; and she desired to bring
nothing with her but the pet lamb, which, by this time, was getting on to be as big as a sheep,
though it still knew her, and would eat out of her hand, and would frisk about her.

"The four Mistresses Vaughan were at the very head and top of formal and fashionable people.
As far as ever I knew them, and I knew them very well at one time, they were all form, and
ceremony, and outside show, in whatever they did, until they were far, very far advanced in
years, and had been made, through many losses and sorrows, to feel the emptiness of all worldly
things. But I have reason to hope that the eyes of some of them were then opened to think and
hope for better things than this life can give; but I shall speak of them as they were when
Evelyn was under their care, and when I was acquainted well with them.

"The entrance to the house where they lived was through heavy stone gates, which have long
since been removed; and along an avenue formed by double rows of trees, many of which are now gone.

"I have often, when a little child, been taken by my nurse to walk in that avenue; and I thought
it so very long, that had I not seen it since, I could have fancied it was miles in length."

"That is just like me, grandmamma," said Henry; "when I was a little boy, I used to think that
the walk through Mary Bush's wood was miles and miles long."

"And so did I," added Emily; and then the story went on. I'll take with me, will educate .--

Those women were very poor. Inspired great affection I Clarita, but to have it beside the condemned
to be poor like them for life.

Don Elijah considered as person's position and character, and did not hesitate, therefore, in
leaving the child.

He remained, however, in Sahagun until 1812, when the realist left
their weapons and retired to Madrid.

Clara then accompanied him, unable to leave their poor friends without mourn much, and could
not get used to not looking face to face to your protector, because he was very afraid.

Great was their sorrow when waking on a beautiful day in May was found between dark walls of
the house that we know in the street Oh my God, and this sadness increased when taken to the convent-school
of some famous sisters of an Order that taught girls in the neighborhood to what little they
knew. I had school all the gloom of the convent, cloister without melancholy and sweet peace.
Dirigíanla a few old, among whom stood out for his carelessness,
ugliness and decrepitude such a distraught mother, who used a very
long cane to punish girls and a green goggles, which more than to
see better, he served for the poor things did not know when I looked
at them.

The girls woke up very early, and prayed, ate lunch a soup of garlic, I used as they swim the day
before Garbanzo, and then went to the studio, I was reading exercise, in which played the
main role of Donna Angus cane. Then traced by space two hours, two separate scribble on scratch
paper, and after answering a memorial to the questions of a catechism, sewing three long hours, until
it was the game. Recess took place in a dark and smelly courtyard, where the vegetation was
a poor yellow carnation consumptive and growing in a pot unusable, erected in flowerpot. The
girls played a while in that pigsty until the distraught mother from
her room sounded an ominous bell, which gathered around his cane to
the sad angels from the ashes.

After dinner wearing the rosary Bridget's mother, not to do this, the distraught mother, asthma to the
afflicted, broken voice. That rosary was endless, because behind her came the endless litany
paternoster, sores, mysteries, aspirations, prayers, mystical joy and lamentation. The night was surprised
at the pious exercise, and very often that some of the girls, delivered under the moral weight
as monotonous and tired prayer, yawn three times and finally slept blissfully. Sheltered behind her
glasses, the mother Distresses observed yawns and dictatorial stroked his rod without a word
to the culprit, waiting for him to sleep, and then God's wrath! shook him a rum, followed by
a string of angry insinuations. The other girls, they did not expect more than a source of
distraction and entertainment, seeing the sad figure who was his companion on awakening abruptly
burst out laughing, prayer was interrupted, the mother Bridget growled, cackled the Angus
mother and showered the rum to the right and left. In the evening continued the and catechism
lessons. The distraught mother told them: "Now the ca ... ca ...
tecismo.

Mother Bri ... Bri ... Bridget, you do not know, the ca ... ca ... garret. "

And going to bed, because he suffered from certain ahoguillos, and had to get all stopgap nights
in the stomach.

Clarita and other school girls blindly believed that the mother had no Sorrows eyes, and all
optical powers residing in those two dreaded green glass, frame embedded in a stale and moldy,
and it was so cut two rounds to imitate green paper backing of the catechism and I stuck with
saliva in the eyes, which died of laughter.

Since they could not see drop with those patches, one day the mother watched; Petronilla,
who was a pickle, and after many coscorrones them, condemned them to not eat or play that day, what
hours passed the poor!

Again they were all in the yard, and it occurred to a skinny little bird get there the roof
and resting after crashing into the walls, the sad carnation. What uproar plucked! He was the
biggest event of the year. With scarves, robes, with what they found at hand, chased him catch
you, atáronle a thread on one leg, and Clara kept Cajoncillo well in a seam where it was. In secret
they took him to eat by nights, but the animal became more enflaquecía and sad every time. One
night, when as the prayer was about to begin with, Clara had opened the sewing, and pretending
to be arranged within something from him, was engaged in opening the mouth to the bird and put
him to force a few crumbs of bread he had in his pocket, when suddenly the animal took wing,
flew the room with the thread tied on the leg, and went to stand
where will you believe? in the same Dona head of Sorrows, which by
being desecrated in this manner, took such anger, that asthma he drowned
his voice and gesticulating was ten minutes in silence, as red as
a tomato.

Clara it was stiff with fear.

"... Cla Cla Cla ... ... rita - distraught mother cried .-- blind rage ... bad bad girl maid! What
deactivated ... ca ... cato is this? Tonight at ca ... ca ... garret. "

Clara was ordered that night to sleep in the garret, last sentence applied only very now and then
to the darkest and rare crimes. Mrs. Anguish continued in his cackling until he saw terrible performance
of the order, and even the time that used to be collected, Clara was taken to prison, which
was a dark attic, foul and frightening. The poor thing could not be itself for fear of being
alone in that slum, one thousand objects whose form could not see, lying on a miserable pallet and
exposed to air cast, which entered through a window. In wakeful, he felt the footsteps of mice living
in those climates, steps in his ears rang as if they were produced by the feet of an army of giants.
He shrugged, all wrapped in a blanket, hiding the feet, hands and head, but the rats ran above,
and jumping, came and went with a terrible din. It also increases the dread of a dispute that
girl on the roof neighbor cat got stuck between two noisy mournful
meowing and throwing out of tune.

The poor could not sleep, and the day he found balled up, drenched in cold sweat and trembling with
fear.

Among these extraordinary events and the daily task of study and sewing, always terrified by
the terrible fascination of the mother glasses Sorrows, Clara spent four years until he met the
eleven, Elijah came and took her to his house.

Realists do not know at first what to make of the girl: it occurred
to a nun, but driven by a sudden selfishness, decided to keep him.

He was alone: ​​his house needed a woman. Who better to Clara? His intelligence was not well cultivated,
not knowing but read, write and do some accounts, but instead sewed well and understand the
all kinds of work.

Chacona's daughter grew Coletilla house, and was a woman. He grew up without games, without friendly
partners, without joy, without these healthy and lead happy useful expansions from childhood
to youth. Elijah was not bad, but neither is she was very affectionate.

On Sundays he would take to Florida or to the Virgen del Puerto, once took her to the theater, and
Clara thought it was really what they were representing. Sunday walks ceased when Elijah had
occupations and concerns which shut him out of his house: then she just listen to early morning
Mass at the nuns of Gongora, and accompanied him on this expedition, a Alcarrian maid named
Pascual, who Coletilla had taken into his service.

This perpetual imprisonment had soured and warped maybe another character so sweet and kind that
of Clara, who came to believe that life was something very natural, and should not aspire to
something else, so they lived peaceful, happy melancholy, and sometimes joyful. Yet, whole weeks
passed without a stranger gets into the house fanatic. It seemed that all the society wanted
to escape from the cage in which was enclosed their greatest enemy.

Only one exception was at the normal insulation. We have said that Mr. Elias was a friend and
servant of an ancient and illustrious house. After the ruin of the Porreno and Venegas, only
were three individuals, three venerable ladies kept friendly relations
with the realistic.

Very now and then went to visit him. They had a dry treatment, were intolerant rigid, proud.
Never talked to Clara but solemn words, which gave sadness and brought down the mood. They could
not do without the label, even in front of a poor girl and were so ceremonious, stiff, that
they came to take Clara dislike, because whenever went to the house left there a shadow of
sadness that lasted long into the soul of the orphan.

In recent years, Coletilla entered, as we said, at the height of his frenzy political, the anger
was normal, and it was something impossible in his fanatical obsessions irascible soul that could
have affection and finesse for the poor fellow that both needed. On the contrary, showed himself
very hard on her, he was not talking weeks whole, sometimes with acrimony and scolded her for no
reason: he called frivolous and frivolous.

One day, seeing that the hair had been unhappy with less ease than usual, and had dressed a
little reforming its natural elegance with the powerful instinct of fashion that women have the
world's most remote, scolded her, repeating many times this phrase that cost him tears to the
unhappy: "Clara, you've ruined." Sometimes gave the old by watching her, and forbade him out
on the balcony and open the door, ie the left or the tormented, depending
on the status of that spirit disturbing and cruel.

Clara became ill, was going slowly withered as the growing difficulty in carnation the schoolyard.
His melancholy increased, it became pale and exhausted, and came
to do fear serious health hazards.

Tagline could not remain indifferent to the disease of his protege, and brought a doctor who expressed
his opinion very briefly, saying: "If you do not send this girl to the field to die within
a month. "

The realist thought that the death of that girl would be a setback. He recalled that his sister
Ateca lived with his family, and formed his plan.

Wrote two letters and a few days after Clara entered the village with a heart overflowing joy.

Charitable
reaction occurred in their health, and spirit, so long afflicted by boredom and closure, was revived
with the full enjoyment of nature and treatment of gay people that
attended and loved.

Those days were a second life for the unfortunate martyr regenerated because materially, becoming
freshness, freshness and vigor, his eyes, accustomed to darkness with four walls, and traveled
a long horizon, his steps led to the distances: her voice was heard by friends jovial and frank,
by young singles, caring for old, his joy was understood and shared
by others, his innocent wish Satisfied knew friendship, family life,
trust, enjoyed a beautiful sky, of clean air, a sober and quiet well,
as happy and not monotonous days of quiet and peaceful nights.

But during the stay of Clara Ateca things happened that powerfully influenced the rest of his
life. Will refer to, because they derive most of this history; and so important and serious,
we leave to the next chapter, where you will see, if it is determined not to abandon.

CHAPTER VI

#'s Nephew Coletilla. #

Martha, the sister of Elias, was a widow with a son named Lazarus, who after studying Humanities
in Tudela, went to the University of Zaragoza. He was a boy as twenty-three to twenty-five,
with a pleasant presence, very precocious wit, imagination live, easy and fuzzy word, very impressionable
and eager, and rectum and noble heart.

New ideas, then profoundly moved the hearts of youth, had found in the young believer Lazarus
decided. He was one of those who sprouted in the tumult of a classroom of generous military philosophy
with passion in the ranks of political propagators, then as necessary.

It

happened that students Zaragoza struck up a quarrel with some club members policy, the matter
took proportions, the university authorities intervened and saw Lazarus forced to leave Zaragoza,
losing progress. This happened in the days, dismissed Irrigation the command of captain general
of Aragon, was in that city riots and demonstrations, that the government wanted to suppress.
Lazarus, who was about to finish the race, he met the gravity of his situation and disgust
that would have her mother and grandfather, whom he loved much. Wanted to complain, but it
was useless and had to retire to his people, sad, embarrassed and full of doubts and fears.

But when he entered the house, shaken by the anxiety and remorse, he saw in the company of
his mother to an unknown person from the moment he was a secret printing
of joy, imposing, without knowing why, comfort and hope.

He confessed what was happening, without diminishing the seriousness of the case, so don Fermín,
his paternal grandfather, was seriously and wanted to get angry, and his mother cried a little. But
the stranger, who seemed there to brighten up the house, cleared the wrath of the first and dried the
tears of the second while Lazarus, with his head down and moistened eyes, remained motionless in
front of their judges and defense counsel said nothing, but in truth it was not necessary, because
the young defended him very well without displaying great eloquence,
or use other resources that its clear and natural sense, the refiner
and generous feeling.

Lazarus was so upset that he imagined that this person was an apparition,
a being sent from heaven to rely on those hurried moments.

Expected her to disappear to complete its mission, and watched with amazement the noise that
causes the supernatural and unknown. He had no history of that young, or had suspected that existed
and was there. But the image is not faded, and, conversely, continued to see her adorned with
all the physical and moral charms may have the angels in this world.

Nothing more was said about it. Lazarus was forgiven, but never left their confusion. Explicáronle
Who was Clara and why he was there, but not why the student was able to dominate the respectful
and strong surprise that he had produced.

He shrugged and how amazed all day, and temblóle voice when he wanted to talk to her, and finally
fell silent for fear of saying a thousand blunders. The next day woke up with joy exalted, to
that which happened suddenly a sadness like no other. Her stunning stage took very different
as soon as I saw an insatiable appetite attacked verbosity could not contain, as soon made
extraordinary efforts to pronounce a word, without being able to
get it.

He was a fervent polaticómano, and Zaragoza had distinguished himself by his eloquent speeches in
clubs, they had given him much fame, in private conversation expressed also with much enthusiasm
and correction but this time all spoke less of policy. It seemed that no longer existed for him
or the French Revolution, and Emile, Rousseau, or the Charter of Talleyrand, and the Dictionary
of Voltaire. He had forgotten all this, and only thinking of more
expressive and accurate formula to tell Clare that had seen dreams
that night. Resorted to circumlocutions system, thought then to say
to dry and Ambassy, ​​remembered that the allegories were invented
for that case and all media tested without reaching to any object.

It
was two or three days without finding a way to be explicit. When I
was alone, yes, then talked and talked to himself, and even seemed
to engage in dialogue with that beautiful mysterious spirit that was
always everywhere, accompanying him in his loneliness and insomnia;
spirit filled with light and female forms, flowing from the bosom
of the night to watch him still, quiet and serene.

The old lady then went on:

"When the summer was past, and the weather less pleasant, Mrs. Harris pretended to have a pain
in her face, and instead of going out always with Evelyn, she sent Fanny.

"This was a pleasant change for the little lady. She found Fanny much more agreeable to her.
And Fanny was surprised to find how Evelyn opened out to her during their walks.

"For several days Evelyn led Fanny about the groves and over the lawns of the park to look
for the lamb. They could not find him, but the child still fancied that he was somewhere in
the park.

"One morning Evelyn proposed that they should try the avenue, and look for the lamb in that
direction. Fanny had no notion of contradicting Evelyn--indeed Harris had told her to keep
her in good humour, lest she should tell her aunts that Harris seldom walked with her; so that
way they went. They had scarcely got to one end of the long row of trees when they saw a plain-dressed
woman coming to meet them from the other. Evelyn uttered a joyful cry, and began to run towards
her; Fanny ran, too, but the little girl quite outstripped her.

"It was nurse who was coming; she had been forbidden the house; but she had often come to the
lodge, and often walked a part of the way along the avenue, if it were only for a chance of
seeing her child.

"Nurse was a widow, and had only one child living. He had a good situation in the school on
the London road, which anyone may see at the entrance of the town. So nurse then lived alone,
in a small house on that road.

"How joyful was the meeting between Evelyn and her nurse! how eagerly did the little girl rush
into those arms which had been the cradle of her happy infancy!

"After the first moments of joy were past, they sat down on a fallen and withered bough, between
the rows of trees, and talked long and long together; so long, that Evelyn was almost too late
to be taken to her aunts at noon. They talked of many things; and the good nurse forgot not
to remind Evelyn of what she had taught her by the desire of her mother; especially to remember
to give; to be civil to all persons; to speak when spoken to; to say her prayers; and not to
be proud and haughty.

"The nurse also took care to tell Evelyn, that when she talked of giving, she wanted nothing
herself, being in her way quite rich, through the goodness of Mr. Vaughan.

"'So don't give me anything, my precious child, but your love.'

"This meeting with nurse served the purpose of keeping alive all the simple and best feelings
of Evelyn. The little one told her how her lamb had left her, and that they had been looking
for it that very morning.

"'Well, my dear,' said the nurse, 'the poor creature is happier in the fields, and with its
own kind, than you can make it; and if you are not too young to understand me, I would advise
you to learn, from this loss of your lamb, henceforth not to give your heart and your time
to dumb creatures, to which you can do little good, but to your own fellow-creatures, that
you may help. Now, to make what I say plain, there is, at this very time, at the lodge, a pretty
orphan boy, maybe two years of age, who has been taken in for a week or so by Mrs. Simpson,
at the lodge. The count could not remember that scene, which had been deeply impressed in his brain,
without tears crowded to her eyes. He had inherited from the exquisite delicacy of feeling, a susceptibility
that was becoming sick, no serenity, initiative, the unshakable firmness that enhanced the
soul of Colonel Field. The current Earl had an overly sensitive and gentle temperament, background,
honesty and shame it was the moral heritage of the Country. But these qualities are offset by one
character weak, great, gloomy, which come to him, no doubt, from the family of his mother.

Ms María Gayoso, widow Countess de Onis, daughter of baron Oscos was an original being, exceptionally
so original that bordered on the unbelievable. In his entire family, from three or four generations
to her at least, had noted something bizarre in some of its members played on the edge of insanity
and other entered fully inside. His grandfather atheist had been an inveterate supporter of Voltaire
and the Encyclopedia that last minute had given to drunkenness, according to the town council
was dragged by one day demons to hell. Actually died of spontaneous combustion, which could
to fuel like fable. His father was a fool to whom her mother, a woman of unusual energy, had
always enslaved to degradation. Of his uncles, one stood in the asylum, another was very remarkable
mathematician, but as eccentric in his oddities were kept as a source of anecdotes Lancia funny,
another went into the village, married a farmer and was killed by force of spirit. He had only one
brother, the current baron Oscos. It was also an original and eccentric. At the start of the civil
war went to the side of the Pretender and joined his army, but provided to serve as a private. The whole
campaign was in this way. It was not possible more effort that it put the magnates who surrounded
D. Carlos and the king himself, forcing to accept the official's office. He was wounded several
times and one of them so badly, in the face, that he got a deep scar. As his face was the most unfortunate
and that could be seen, winding path that ended Colorado to lend a monstrous appearance and
even feared.

He was younger than his sister Mary.

Not yet reached their fifties. Lived celibate and single in the manor that had on the street
Oscos Well, nothing great indeed. He was rarely at home of his sister, not dislike, but retracted
it and its rough genius. Leaving little house, especially during the day. Had few and friends.
The most intimate of all Only you can say they enjoyed their privacy, a friar exclaustrated, before
being ordained had served in the army as an officer. Fray Diego was its constant companion. Baron,
for his somber, his eccentricities, and especially so frightening of his face, inspired fear
among the population overall. The children felt in their presence a panic. Parents and babysitters,
to reduce them to obedience, threatened them with him - I'm going to tell the Baron! - Here
comes the Baron! - Today I saw the Baron and asked if you were obedient, etc. And the baron,
for his action, always bland, so harsh and loud voice and the suddenness with which he used
to speak, was for the innocent creatures a true ogre. He was always armed with a pair of pistols,
the Rapier his staff was a real sword. It said it had fired on a raised only because had opened
a letter, and that on several occasions had taken the children who dared to make faces on the
street, put them in the barn, stripped and whipped brutally brake with the straps of his horse.
Real or invented these stories, contributed to credit from Lancia child element as a monster of
ferocity which had to flee, if the tremor of the legs so spoiled.

One of the things that helped to instill terror in the small and a certain respect, not without
fear, in large, was the horse that the Baron had, a fiery eye horse
genius and fierce and furious and no one dared to ride him more than
he and his friend Fray Diego, had served in the cavalry.

To remove a drink that always had the right, and yet Gross was the indomitable pulling leaps
and kicks, putting bystanders in shock. When Baron was riding, and bucking and giving arms rising
out of the house, the street is Thrilled residents leaned out windows, children took refuge in
the skirts of their mothers, centaur looked astonished that all afraid. Really the baron in
such Oscos time, his face disfigured, his eyes fierce, big mustaches spliced ​​with whiskers,
stubby and bristling, and the formidable torso hit the horse, was a figure that instilled fear. Had
to go back to fantasy to the irruption of the barbarians find something similar. Neither Alaric
and Attila and Odoacer had to have ugly and ominous aspect or produce more grim. Judge yourself
the effect would cause between neighbors when a timid season gave him ride out after midnight
and through the streets of the city accompanied by a servant, also gentleman in another horse.

La
Comtesse de Onis was in a kind of sex so outlandish, at least, as his brother. Short, plump, round
face, pale and dead black eyes, hair stuck to temples with quince paste, always dressed in purple habits
of the Nazarene. Lived secluded in his palace as a nun in the convent. Delivered living in absolute
devotion but devotion to a whimsical, fantastic, nothing like the real souls who practice mystical.
All his life he had shown signs of an eccentric humor, but since
the death of Count had ruled that both could well be his eccentricities
as hobbies, not the slightest.

As a young man had shown a very modest nature of its exaggeration verging on the ridiculous. Her
friends teased quite often affecting some freedom of speech. As castísimos were the ears of
the maiden of the Oscos, the English seem a miss those of a sergeant at his side. I could not
bear that his brother's underwear was in marriage with it when the washer on wearing or carrying.
If that gave him pants to sew a button he was doing as he ran to his room and wash hands thoroughly, and
even tell them was put a few drops of holy water. Apretábase the breast to hurting yourself up
the collar of the dress against the requirements of fashion, not moved around but a dark shirt,
and when the gloves did not ever shook hands with a man. The story of their marriage was truly curious,
full of comic incidents that repeated for a long time in the city. About everything that happened
on the first night boyfriends, real or invented, it was very funny and worthy of inclusion in a novel
by Paul de Kok

During the marriage, the virtue of chastity templose a bit. It almost seems to say excused. But when
she was widowed again flare up markedly. Especially in the past years acquired the appearance
of madness. When praying the rosary, which was twice a day, sent previously raised to divert to
roost for the duration, the cock of the hens; then ordered separate spoons and forks and brackets
males and females. Finally, was placed in a window on the front side of the house to prevent
none pee in the corner where they used to passersby. One day came the coachman to say that one
of the mares were in heat. Both are angry that, having fought sharply
for daring to notify such nastiness, sent immediately sell it.

A After the groom surprised giving a kiss to the cook got sick of disgust. Both came out of the
house immediately.

He liked, however, be gathering in the early hours of the night, but only clerics. I used to
sit in a chair, before which, intentionally or not, probably with intent, two chairs placed so
that seemed to be behind a fence. Shortly after Priests enter and encourage conversation,
the countess slept soundly, and was well until nine in the robes were leaving, of course, without
shaking hands. As the house had a chapel, leaving very few times, and those by car. He kept all
the gold that came into his hands, the most secret places in the attic or the garden. Sometimes
by this greed, or more properly by this mania for magpie, the house was in real trouble: agreed
to let his son asked to borrow some quantities before digging the
pelucones.

He was also greedy, very greedy, could eat candy without a source of hints indigestion. But there
had to be made by the nuns: for strange contradiction with their pious inclinations, I hated everything
smelled convent.

As for this woman bizarre, we can say crazy, educated the present Count de Onis. His character
suffered a lot. To counteract this excessive sensitivity, that weak and vacillating temperament
and great, dark humor that was sometimes sad samples would have required a manly outdoor education,
teacher and intelligent energetic awakening in your body know the spirit and the resolution
of the Country. Happened Otherwise unfortunately. The countess insisted that race should not go
after him depart Lancia. Therefore considered a college town in the career of law, which is the
layer with the rich kids hide their idle purpose of life. While it lasted, and completed long
after the countess was subject to his authority in a way that ridiculous.

Never leaving home without permission, did not smoke in their presence, gathered at dusk, praying
the rosary, confesábase when she ordered. As his body was developed prodigiously, was transformed
into a bizarre and athletic young man, his spirit still so childish and submissive as if it never
happened ten years. In this life withdrawn and agravose the native effeminate timidity of his
character, his delicate sensibilities became sick, shady and suspicious genius. And the most
unfortunate was that, without being a louver, was endowed of clear intelligence and possessed
a common penetration reserved and timid men. Illustration and lacked experience, but knew how
to keep a conversation discreetly and is not escaped the defects of others. Like almost all
weaklings, enjoyed a sometimes viciously at their expense. Vengeance is for people but not making
those I have too vigorous and spontaneous. However, these bursts of irony and malignancy it
was not common. Appeared more like a young conservative, quiet, melancholy of courtesy and chivalrous,
sensitive heart, full of affection and respect for his mother.

After the race had ended their hopes and even projects Lancia leave, to go the court, to travel for
some time. Enough, however, the countess's refusal to contain him and make him desist. Continued,
then, his life of leisure, the more so since no had an obligation to look even occasionally books
of jurisprudence.

Only by engaging in entertaining the growing seasons of certain crafts, and the romantic reading
of the works then in vogue. It was clever carpenter, not as his father, then gave him the watch.
Recently took a liking to farm work and leisure he owned in the vicinity of the village and
began to improve markedly.

Denominábase Farm: Dist little over two miles Lancia had a big old house, ramshackle: behind
her a beautiful forest of oak and large front and fertile prairies. Began to go every afternoon
after lunch, raised cattle and some horses, planted trees opened up channels and fences. At
home barely touched. In this new hobby won His body, which became
harder and more agile, and his character.

Melancholia, that both tormented him, it was tuning, serenose his mind was becoming more firmly
in the treatment people and more security for itself and certain disclosures of black humor,
rage and despair that no cause of rare rushing him and made him appear strange to the servants
as an epileptic, disappeared. Thus came to twenty-eight, he began to frequent the house of Quiñones,
and his life underwent profound transformation.

It was nine o'clock in the morning when the servant awoke from a restless sleep, incomplete, for
deliver a letter. He dropped with affected indifference on the night table, but then that the
servant was hastened to pick it up and opened it with visible excitement. Although it was already
nearly two years lasting relationships with Amalia, never opened this letter without His hands
shook. Truth, they wrote very few times. But the rarity of cards certainly helped troubled about the
deep love in her sensitive nature timid had taken root.

"This afternoon at three o'clock. On the podium, "said the letter
only.

His embarrassment did not dissipate completely. Appointments as it was extremely dangerous, causing
him, amid happiness, a sense of fear that it could not overcome. Amalia had asked that the deleted;
but paid no attention whatsoever. And he felt totally unable to oppose his will. Spent the
morning nervous, upset. To calm gave a ride, got to the Farm; but returned after the unrest
that had left it.

When the appointed time came he left home and took the street of locksmiths.

It was the hour that is just a bystander. Lancia neighbors usually eat both. At three are therefore
desktop or resting. At the end of Locksmith, at the corner of the street Santa Lucia, is the
Church of San Rafael, which has its main entrance on it. The Earl entered the temple after taking holy
water, as that will make their prayers. Was entirely alone, or so it seemed at first glance. A few
minutes and his eyes accustomed to darkness, he saw two or three scattered parcels for him and
prostrate in prayer.

He also knelt in the dark, near the small door of the staircase leading to the rostrum of
Quiñones, and pretended to pray for a moment. That he hated deeply. It was a sincere believer
and a pious and strict upbringing that he had was horrified to such sacrilege. It had hit the
fanaticism of his mother, had a deathly afraid of hell. Amalia also was a believer and even
passed on by pious people; belonged to various guilds, was protective of some homes, made frequent
gifts images and was seen accompanied by clerics. But looking at this defilement with the highest
indifference. Religion was for her something very respectable, but his will still respectable and its
pleasures.

After a few minutes the count got up gingerly and pulled the little door, a anticipatory hand
had already begun to advance. Turned to go and climbed the stairs very narrow spiral. The small
gallery of the house Quiñones was even darker than the church. Sought groping the door of the passage
and pushed, but as he was closing windows and could see from the street, began to crawl to
get through. On the door leading to the house was Jacob expected. She was a woman over fifty years,
obese, with a huge belly, moving with difficulty, panting breathing, dull and fat and always talking
falsetto voice.

The sum option, the true embodiment of stealth. Never had another confidant, nobody in the
world than she was aware of his love, and in the course of them had served them prodigiously, was
his guard, his savior on many occasions your guardian angel forever. There was a servant of the
house, but Mrs. protected. We spent to run the kinds of stores to bring them to the houses, thus
earning very small commission. This was not enough to live even though it was her own and a niece.
But he made several houses orders of various kinds and helped in countless ways. Especially Mrs.
Quiñones had found a protective determined. When it became his confidant may be said found a
mine. Amalia generously paid services, in fact, well deserved extraordinary reward.

The party wall held his finger to his lips silently recommending the count, so he crossed the door.
Excused for a good recommendation, because even breathing was holding not to make noise. Then,
going a bit to explore the terrain, he motioned for to follow. They walked through a corridor, they
passed the main staircase without up for it in fear of meeting a servant, and went to look for the
library a ladder that there was excused to go to the second. The count proceeded on tiptoe palpipante
the heart. Although he had penetrated other times in that house Quiñones Thus, he always seemed
the height of recklessness and cursing inside Dare and indifference of her lover. They came at last
to the case of the lady.

The door opened without anyone saw. Jacoba pushed gently to the count, leaving her out. The labor
Amalia, who suddenly appeared, shut, and suddenly, with snatched Furthermore, I arms around your
loved and kissed him with passionate tenderness. He, embarrassed, agitated yet the rise and
trembling, stood still, without responding to such events affection. The lady tapped her motherly
to the palm on the cheek.

- Be calm, easy chair, that nobody will come here.

Luis made an effort to smile and dropped in a blue satin lined marquise.

Amalia's cabinet for its luxury coquetón contrasted with the abandonment that reigned in the
rest of the house. Tapestry-covered walls superb, the best of the collection that family owned,
brand new furniture, Louis XV, brought from Madrid to the beautiful bed ebony inlaid with ivory,
which was at the bedroom, in the first months of marriage, when D.
Pedro was trying in vain to win the heart of his young wife.

Breathed there an atmosphere scented, sensual, refined tastes denouncing
the stranger lady brought there from other lands to the severe mansion
Quiñones.

He sat on the knees of the count, and tugging at his beard, said holding back hard penalties
cries, with a repressed joy shone in his eyes, exploding in every pore:

- See? Do you see it as we won? Do you see how they overcame all these obstacles you heaped on
the head and not let you see clearly? There was no need more than a little boldness and God help
us.

- God - "murmured the count shudder.

She felt she had done wrong in appealing to the divinity, and hastened to say nonchalantly:

- I meant the fate ... Now do not start to get tiresome and sad ...
This is a time of happiness for us ... I'm playing and I can not believe
... My daughter, my daughter love, living with me and can see her
and kiss her all the time ... How beautiful!

... No I contemplate my taste until this morning, but today I sated
well ... It looks like you ... especially this part up here, between
the eyebrows.

Jacoba said that the mouth is mine ... I do not regret - smiling
coyly added .-- Another thing worse could get from me, right?

- For
me, everything is just beautiful.

- Come on - the lady exclaimed,
leaning back and stabbing him with a look of affectionate mockery
.-- At 've finally recovered the use of the word ... Well - said in
a serious tone - you do not know the laps that we had to give this
morning to look for mother.

I have brought three. No I liked it. Finally the fourth stayed. And what Linda began to suck my
angel! I had trouble not jumping for joy ... As it costs me now! ... But let's be serious ...
we are serious and tiresome as the count ... Tell me, annoying, how you've managed to bring?
Tell me. Which side were you last night to open the door of the room!

- The thing with good reason. At nine I went to look at Jacob's house.
Have told you so it.

I spent about two hours there.

And as if the devil would mortify the creature screamed on ...

- Yes, yes, I know all that ... And then?

- What a night! The showers were repeated endlessly. The streets were lost, mostly for those
missing quarters. Roll up my pants almost to the knee, because How would I get bedraggled in your
living room? I wanted to hold the basket in one arm and carrying
an open umbrella in the other hand.

It was impossible. A few steps I turned and Jacoba left the umbrella. What pilgrimage, good heavens!
What anguish! The wind down every moment the fold of the layer, the rain whipped my face and I
entered through the neck.

I was afraid the girl get wet.

Besides fearing would slip. Imagine if I fall in that time! The wind was blowing so hard sometimes
that I could take a step. Well believe me I was tempted to turn around and leave it for another
day.

- I believe without it I swear. Too know that you drown in a bowl of water.

He gave her a long, sad look of reproach. Amalia burst out laughing and embracing and kissing
her with effusion, said:

- Never mind, poor thing. Do you think you no pity? The trance was
very hard.

Te has behaved like a hero.

The count, under the weight of those compliments, blushed. Shouted awareness that not deserved.
He remembered the terrible ordeal that had just Amalia, and said:

-
You do, you do that you should have to suffer!

How are you? It was a reckless lower as soon as the ladder.

- Oh! Although I seem weak, I am a rock.

- Well you've shown.

Having such tremendous pain without uttering even a complaint!

- What do you know about this pain, stupid? - Said putting a hand
in the mouth .-- Have you given birth ever?

- After only four days
in bed - Young continued that hand gently separating and kissing at
the same time - and the fifth down the hall.

- Well, you see that
I have not happened.

Oh, if it came down yesterday, fixed Quiñones send me a doctor! Since the second day was determined
to come up ... But do not you know? He is in love, crazy for the
girl.

All morning he had the nurse in his room.
 When she
had placed the little lady at her right hand, and when the rest of the company were seated,
we on the forms had full leisure to look at this much envied object. There was not one amongst
us who would not have gladly changed places with the little lady.

"Evelyn Vaughan was an uncommonly beautiful girl; she was then nearly eleven years of age,
and was taller than most children of her age, for she had shot up rapidly during her illness.
Her complexion was too beautiful, too white, and too transparent; but she wanted not a soft
pink bloom in her cheeks, and her lips were of a deep coral. She had an oval face and lovely
features; her eyes were bright, though particularly soft and mild; her hair of rich auburn,
hanging in bright, natural ringlets; whilst even her stiff dress and formal cap could not spoil
the grace and ease of her air.

"Indeed, persons always accustomed to be highly dressed are not so put out of their way by
it as those who are only thus dressed on high occasions; and dressed she was in a rich silk,
with much lace, with a chain of gold and stud of jewels, silken shoes, and artificial flowers.
We on the forms thought that we had never seen anything so grand in our whole lives, nor any
person so pretty, nor any creature so to be envied.

"The ladies only stayed to see a few of our best dancers show forth in minuets before tea,
and then they withdrew: and as the dancing-master, who had always taught Miss Vaughan, was
invited to join the tea-party, we went into the schoolroom to our suppers, and to talk over
what we had seen. After a little while, we all returned to the dancing-room to be ready for
the company, who soon appeared again.

"We were then called up, and arranged to dance cotillons, and whilst we were standing waiting
for the order to take our places, we saw our master go bowing up to Evelyn, to ask her to join
our party. I saw her smile then for the first time, and I never had seen a sweeter smile; it
seemed to light up her whole face. He left the village and went to approach him. "Yes - I thought - here
something missing: missing a voice.

"

Reached that supreme moment of popular unrest in which mobs stop silent, altered the thousands of hearts
by a single, deep fear, upset the thousand head with a single doubt. Missing a single voice say what
we all feel. Right now solemn is when we see a body raised on thousands of bodies and extended
a trembling hand on many heads. A voice expresses what so many brains struggle to acquire forms
oral, that voice tells what a crowd can not say, because the crowd that works as a one body with determination
and security, has no other voice than the wild consists of endless
rumor and uneven sound.

When the man spoke, the crowd said he had to say, the crowd known, has been able to collect
and consolidate their forces, has acquired what he had: awareness
and unity.

It is no longer a set of blind forces inorganic: it is an intelligent body whose activity tends
to a fixed object, good or bad, but which is moving with determination and knowledge.

This thought Lazarus. Could it be that means of expression? Would the developer of that Word
blind and unconscious body? Would you talk or not talk? The swirling mass and therefore stretched
by the square of the Angel. Lazarus remained as fascinated, then
pulled away with afraid of her and himself.

But I could not be resolved to retire. Would you talk or not? We would hear insurance. Why
not, if he would say such beautiful things? He was sure that I would say. The words he said
were written in letters of fire in space.

And the portrait progressed led by four members of the Fontana. The music played, the crowd around
the canvas, and all without moving forward, ranging without elaborating, writhed confused. Surely
something was missing. Lazarus was mixed into the vortex.

His eyes sparkled with extraordinary brilliance, his concern was a seizure, his agitation a fever,
your Look lightning.

Cruzábanle the mind strange and sublime forms of eloquence latíale the heart with unbridled
speed, his temples were burned, and felt a vibration in her throat sound, which only needed a little
air to be robust and eloquent voice.

He saw that lifted the portrait, which the crowd swirled in endless circuits and saw agitated
in the air crowd of white handkerchiefs coming out of the turmoil as a foam.

The disorderly procession went down the street from Atocha and entered
the Plaza Mayor.

There spread a little. But then tried to cross the street arc to enter the Bitterness in silver.
The great monster was measured at a glance the number of its members multiplied arch width
and the way he had to pass. The camel was going to go through the eye of the needle. There was
a convulsive movement of elbows, and the abdomens became depressed, turned the bodies and some
hats jumped impelled by the impact and shock of many heads. Some voices tried to pronounce an order
to overcome this difficulty, a problem of obstetrics no doubt.

- In front of the portrait. Pass up the portrait - said. It was impossible, people flocked to
Thus, the portrait could not happen. Finally, after long efforts, the picture passed the arc. Behind
the more confusion was the great mass of people. The crowd that filled the square was standing
and waiting. The portrait and its lackeys resulted in the High Street; but once there, unparalleled
surprise stopped the procession. Two rows of soldiers were in Platerías, reaching beyond the
square of the town. The stakes of a squad lances gleaming in the distance, and before the troops
were, Captain General of Madrid, horseback, waiting with great poise
and courage.

This man came, followed by two or three, and pointing with his sword, summoned the removal
order to the portrait. There was a quick consultation of glances between them. A civil authority
also approached and said the best manners to leave everyone to his
house and to give up the demonstration, because the government was
determined to not go one step further.

The appearance of a vivid impression to the troops the portrait,
besides, they had the help of Sagunto regiment and the regiment Sagunto
was locked and well guarded in their barracks.

They tried, however, move on, and said that this demonstration was
purely moral, not trying to cause any disturbance, nor was aggressive
attitude, or were more object of admiration paid tribute to the hero
who gave freedom to his country.

"Every man to his house! Behind
the portrait," Morillo said resolutely.

The defense was impossible.
The procession had no weapons.

The alleged weakness of the government
had turned to unwavering firmness.

"I believe that I was a comfort to her, and a relief to Harris; and Fanny, also, rejoiced to
see me. I was with Evelyn several weeks, and the days passed pleasantly. 

When he reached the critical moment showed bravery bordering on heroism. Luis wanted to rely a doctor,
she refused. Why? With the assistance of Jacqueline was enough. The trust that secret to another
person was dangerous. We undertook the first symptoms at dawn, being in bed, but not until eight summoned
Jacoba, who under the pretext of making some mattresses slept for several days at home. Is
locked in the cabinet, where they already had prepared the necessary clothes and without a cry,
without a movement out of touch, without the mild complaint, that brave woman left her care.
Jacqueline took the baby with the mess clothing, after having sent out with appropriate excuses
servants.

The Count cried with joy and admiration to know this happy outcome. Then, when received by Jacoba
ordered to take the girl to the portal Quiñones, I felt heartbroken. The plan her lover filled
him with astonishment, but as he was accustomed to obey, did what
command.

The result topped the audacity of the lady was as she had expected.

And now, looking at the baby safe forever, not only strengthened their
love and refined, but felt the joy of victory, which after strong
run time finally arrives at the port of salvation.

Very quietly, hands clasped, occasionally tilting his head to brush the front lip of the girl,
spoke at length, rather, dreamed awake, wanting to penetrate the unfathomable depths of time.
What would be the fate of that beautiful creature? How it educate? Amalia said as his daughter
get to educate, make a real young lady was sure that D. Pedro would not oppose it. And like he
had no children, who, having nothing more natural taken a liking to leave her to her death a significant
legacy. The Count made a gesture of disdain.

The girl did not need finances D. Pedro. He would leave all their own.

- But you can marry and have children - said the lady looked at him mischievously.

He covered his mouth.

- Hush, hush!

You know I do not want to hear it even.

I'm definitely attached to you.

She kissed him warmly.

- Sealed, right?

- Sealed - he said firmly.

- But do not you take care of that if you leave your property at will,
then born the suspicion that it was your daughter?

This difficulty for a moment struck him.

Both were engaged in some way to arbitrate circumvented. The count
wanted to leave in trust to someone you trust.

But this also offered its drawbacks. Best would be putting money in your name at a bank, and
upon reaching the age of majority, pretending an inheritance, to
invent a parent out of the blue ...

- Finally, we'll talk about that
... Let my care - she concluded.

And he kept it very willingly, trusting of his inexhaustible imagination,
their willingness and audacity.

When they tired of talking about what future they turned their eyes to this. It was necessary to
baptize girls. Had decided that was the next day.

- We have agreed that the godmother and godfather I were you.

- How?

I? - Said scared .-- But, my dear, do not you understand that it
can breed suspicion?

The lady persisted. Yes, that was to be godfather. If suspected,
bon appetit. She did not care. But actually seeing him change his
mind distressed.

- Do not worry, man, do not worry - said giving
a tug to his beard .-- It was a joke. Good going to face when you
had to put on the stack! Do not be missing more than shouting Gentlemen,
here! Come here for all to see the father of this child!

The sponsor
would Quiñones, and its representation D. Enrique Valero. Her godmother,
represented by Maria Josefa. The count was very pleased. All that
was skillful and prudent and appropriate to ensure the fate of his
daughter. But after that happier, a rumor that came the hallway made
him jump in the chair, get livid.

- What are you, man?

- That noise!
​​...

- It Jacoba ...

But seeing him doubtful, even frightened eyes,
stood up, taking the child in her arms, opened the door and exchanged
a few words to James that, indeed, was there. The reason she gave for its not being right to have the poor woman
brought there was, that she was the first to put melancholy thoughts in the head of Miss Evelyn,
and would be quite sure to bring the same things forward again. Mrs. Harris would have got
her own way, if the physician had not insisted that Evelyn ought to see her nurse if she desired
it; and he himself undertook to send for her. He had not far to send. Nurse had heard of her
child's violent attack, and was no further off than the lodge.

"From the time that Evelyn had mentioned her nurse, she had lain quite still, with her eyes
closed, till the worthy woman came in. At the sound of the soft step with which the nurse came
forward, she opened them and saw the person she loved best on earth. 

Doña Paulita, who had already addressed the nose to scold Clara, was shocked to see ulcerate, and
reassured her:

- La Magdalena sinned and was forgiven.

What you lack now is a sincere repentance.

- But what shall I repent? - Clara said sobbing.

- Jesus!

What tone as the day and so ... liberal! - Salome said, believing
that a grace.

- The pride that you have shown in this question has
no excuse - Peace said dismissively.

- When older people say that
you have missed ...-- added another - they know why they say, and
you have to do more to settle and quiet.

- But alas!

I do not know how I could miss.

- When you say it, the reasons will be for it.

- But if I have a clear conscience.

- Quieter is not replicated when superiors say one thing.

- The authority, girl - Peace said, - the authority is necessary ...
Since we have shown you enough fatal influence that you have produced
the ideas of the day.

Satanic pride, to rebel against superiors, the counter ... This is
unbearable.

Thus society walk his ruin. But we'll bring him to you back on track.

- For the time being - Salome said - careful how you looks at the
window.

- It is forbidden to approach you to a balcony or window,
that you open the door of the staircase.

- And you talk when not
asked.

- It has to lift you at four o'clock in the morning, that
laziness is the mother of all vices.

- I get up at the same time,
sister - said the devout, - I will provide to you sometimes at that
hour to entertain the understanding of holy things.

- To see if from
here on out is careful not to say those terrible nonsense now he said.

-
No return - said in an outburst of love of neighbor Dona Paulita -
I know it will not return, I I hope that will be good and obedient.

Other saints were made worse.

- Be careful how you talk with anyone who comes to this house. You will work as you send - continued
Paz, adding that code to an article fatal.

- But not for, too - Dona Paulita informally indicated that the work
is good for scaring occasions of sin, but excess is bad.

- Do not
be too much.

Also need to try to dispose of his mind all the things hitherto thought. Beware the ideas of the
day that brings you to this sanctuary good principles!

Do not you remember the past, and now that you're committed to our protection for life, must
not think only of good behavior. We, as you have had the misfortune of losing his parents, will
try to run it and amend it to be the authority much needed.

The orphan under his eyes and fell into deep depression. For a lifetime! Wanted die at that moment.
He did not look at three harpies, or answered.

His terror was so great that it wiped away tears, and remained in this painful state of perplexity
which follows the great crisis of the soul.

Let her in her confinement to go to Lazarus, who moans in a prison
of another kind.

CHAPTER XVII

# # The liberal dream. All her toys
and gayest dresses, and many ornaments and books, were to be given to me: and the poor whom
she had loved and visited were all remembered.

"That death was the cutting up of all the worldly prospects of the old ladies, for Evelyn was
the last of that branch of the family. At the death of the youngest Mistress Vaughan, who lived
to a very great age, the estates went into other hands, and The Grove was sold, and purchased
by a gentleman whose son parted with it to your uncle. The very name of Vaughan is now nearly
forgotten in that part of the world, excepting it may be by a few very old persons like myself." When he went to the house he remembered the charge
that on the night of his expulsion he had directed in the same place; recalled dialogue with
his uncle had been in prison, recalled every word, expression the more blind fanaticism, and
the more I pondered and remembered, unless your uncle could be explained allowed to be called
great liberal. Although some vague suspicions tormented him, no saw the great divide in all
its horror and depth, not presaged the movement to which he had given impetus to his word, and
did not include the trick dark, bloody collision of Fontana heads of the dazed and troubled
minds of some youngsters, had his gun more terrible.


Mrs. Fairchild fixed on Betty to wait upon the children; she knew that they must have a maid,
and she soon settled who that maid should be.

"I know Betty," she said; "and I know I may trust her with my children."

Miss Tilney was very angry when she heard of this.

"Well, to be sure," she said, "so Betty is turned into a young lady's governess; who could
have thought it? How very ridiculous some people are!"

When September came, Mrs. Fairchild reminded her children how near the time was come, and that
they must think of preparing to move. What puzzled him most was the uncanny speed, impatience fatal that rushed
over him so many disappointments, so much bitterness, which gave no time to find encouragement and
hope in his mind and heart.

He entered the house, and slowly climbed the stairs of the Eighteenth Century house. Could not
without a sense of respect for those three ladies, for still unknown him, he looked like three perfect
models of virtue. Touched, and opened one of them. Decoration affected him a bit: the historical portraits
of the hall looked at him with her eyes all moth-eaten. Lazarus was afraid. Preceded by Paz,
among those passed through the dim shadows the hall was more mysterious,
and entered the room.

CHAPTER XXIII

# The Inquisition. #

When Coletilla after installed on the second floor, the ladies said the probability that his
nephew was to live with him, Salome was a little pensive, but Mary of the Paz said there was no
problem, provided the young, under the supervision and guidance of his uncle, was to have the
restraint and dignity that the house imposed on its inhabitants.

Lazarus, preceded by Maria de la Paz, entered the room. The first thing that caught his eye was to
Clara, who was sitting next to the devout and sewed his head down,
not daring to look to anyone.

She saw his confusion and his efforts to conceal it. Then he looked around and saw his uncle,
sat respectfully beside Salome, whose real were planted at the eastern end Maria de la Paz. Lazarus
he saw them all motionless as stick figures, all watching him, except Clara, who insisted on bringing
both eyes to work, it was difficult to understand how not kept one
eye with the needle.

Elias Lazarus looked in amazement. Peace with astonishment, Salome with amazement, all with astonishment
and he came to believe it was a ghost evoked, the fearful nephew Coletilla spectrum. Salome pointed
to a chair with his finger when he had the rings, and Peace said the registration most contemptuous
voice and August:

- Sit down, young gentleman.

When the young man said "thank you,
ma'am," his voice sounded weak and painful, so much suffering announcing
and prostration, which Clara could not help looking up and feeling
him with sudden interest. She found him pale and dejected, and knew
what had happened in those unhappy days and took all the effort that
brave soul was able to keep from mourn as a fool in the presence of
those three ladies and furious rigid Coletilla.

- Since these ladies
know what you did to get to Madrid - Elias said his nephew with great
severity. When she was alone, Amparo had moments of hesitation, but the idea of ​​suicide the rushed after one
of them with such verve, that wished to death between her life and her shame. Dona Marcelina ...
cards! ... This time it came as a delusion, and restlessly paced the covering his stay, and
eyes, and ears. He saw nothing, losing the knowledge of all things that were not his perverse
idea, in his mind there was a cataclysm. How strange--no, it is not, neither; Mr. Fairchild said he should
not tell you till it was settled; and so there can be no harm in telling it. And are you not
delighted?--you don't look delighted. Your papa said that there could be nothing which would
please you so much." 

Júzgese the strangeness of the apparition and of the scene: Paulita, lying, with symptoms of a serious
accident, Lazarus, haggard and confused many gold coins, unknown in that house, strewn with abandon
on the floor, and the two harpies at the door, looking as two spectra.

The first object that attracted the eyes of the gold was scattered Salome, his first move was
cast on him and began to collect coins, kneeling on the floor. Peace looked at Lazarus became
livid with fear, looked to the devout, was enraged, took a few steps, and regaining the majesty of
his character, asked:

- What is this?

- Lady - Lazarus said, trying to control their situation, - a sad
event ... Doña Paulita is very sick ... He has been an accident.

We were talking .... What conflict!

Now , right now has fallen.

- But that money ...?-- Paz said.

-
It's yours.

- You! - Said the hag with greed.

Turning to Salome, who collected the gold, said:

- Give it, give
it to me, I have to save it.

- I'll keep it.

- "But where she got
that money? - Said the other.

I had long ago said Lazarus, trying, while dealing with the Porrenos gold, providing some relief
to the poor invalid.

Peace, on his knees, picked up coins, Salome, knees, picked up too, but the thick, with heavy
hand, not even in haste to the nerve, which was lighter and picked up two pieces as her aunt caught
one. Salome looked like a crazy. The Left Hand of Peace, when he received the right one ounce
or doubloon new, closed, clenching his fingers and holding robust on gold with the determination
and adjustment of a machine. At the end were disappearing land the golden pieces. There were
four, three, two, had one. The hands of both of Porrenos brutal promptly threw on the last,
and fell over one another, flattening there each other in repeated blows. The two looked ruins: it
seems that they wanted to swallow each other. Which of the two characters would beat the other?
Peace was swollen with anger, pride, was livid, apoplectic. Salome was yellow and breathless
with resentment, envy and anxiety. Its lips parted, showing the very fine white teeth, as if
to instill fear his opponent with that weapon. The two were on their knees and supported on
the hands, and that attitude, something similar to that of the Sphinx, the two harpies, revealing with
untimely force their passions found, they were like wild beasts. After a moment of silence
that all human envy forces were measured at a glance with all the forces Pride, the panther said
to the seal:

- This is mine!

- Yours! What, fool? This is mine: it was my father ... I know that I had saved somewhere, but I did
not know where he was.

- Vanity - Salome said, advancing an arm and a leg .-- You have plunged
us into poverty; you had hidden the money.

What a disgrace!

- Hypocrite - Peace cried back, - out of my presence. Give me that money, not us steal again.
This is mine.

- Was my father I inherited. What hast thou to do with it? Give me the money.

Salome Peace he saw around him. He raised his right arm and shook his hand against powerful push
his niece's face, giving him a slap so hard that she fell to the ground as if struck by a club.
But he stood on his legs, he emptied the coins in his pocket he had in hand, retreated a bit,
as carnivores when they go to jump, and rushed her aunt. Before it could defend itself, the ten
fingers pointed as his steely contrary were on his face, as if they
had stuck a hook on each phalanx.

Stuck nails frenzy in the fleshy cheeks and then pulled, leaving eight bloody furrows August
in the face of the vanity. It launched a cry of pain. Lazarus had to intervene and lift the
ground while Paz, picked up the nervous all left rival currencies fall in battle, was wrapped
in a blanket with convulsive readiness, and tightening their pocket ran from the room, took
the stairs, fell for her and fled.

Lazarus no longer wanted to attend the scene. Vomited old anger against him, said the biggest insults,
called him a coward, sending him to pursue his niece. The young I
could not resist any longer the horror that inspired this cursed house.
He looked to the devout, which was still no movement, and distressed
by the misfortune of unparalleled woman so unhappy left the house.

CHAPTER
XLIII

# Conclusion. #

Lazarus eager to see his uncle that morning,
went to the house of Abbe Carrascosa, and found there another scene
of desolation. Then they ran down and kissed Mrs. Goodriche, and without looking round at
any dear tree or window, or garden-seat or plot of flowers, they sprang into the coach, and
felt for the first time that riding in their father's carriage was no cure for an aching heart.
Their hearts ached, and their eyes continued to flow with tears, till they had passed the village
and left it at some distance behind them; but as they were dragged slowly up the steep hill,
beyond the village, they took courage and looked out, and could just see a number of persons
standing beneath the beech-trees on the top of the round hill. Someone was waving something
white, and Henry was answering it by waving his handkerchief. Just imagine what occasion. Are precisely that ...
I'll tell you how I became aware that these birds gather some nights, if you know every night.
Feliu A few days ago was the fourth of the King. There was no council, was T. Count telling jokes.
 The patient thought he recognized Clara fantasy in those horrible voices and
rough trio of Porrenos, flying, wrapped in terrible clouds, giving the wind the voices of
his impertinence, his bitter spite and envy. We tried that rampage here.

- Well, I assure you, Don Elias of my soul, that what has given me,
I have or strap shoe worst speaker of this club.

- I say to you that
enough.

 It was a Magdalene, an unhappy sorry
... What hurts him most, son, is Having A deceived. You should not treat it bad, you must not
ensañarte with it because their pain is great ... believes that going to kill ... I told you're
not a Otelo and you do not give as strong.