The first bootmaker had very little to say for himself, and hardly gave Sir Thomas much opportunity
of preaching his doctrine of purity. "I hope you'll do something for our trade, Sir Thomas,"
said the first bootmaker. Sir Thomas explained that he did not at present see his way to the
doing of anything special for the bootmakers; and then took his leave. "He's all right," said
Mr. Trigger. "He means it. He's all right. And he'll say a word to his men too, though I don't
know that much 'll come of it. They're a rum lot. If they're put out here to-day, they can
get in there to-morrow. They're a cankery independent sort of chaps, are bootmakers. Now we'll
go and see old Pile. He'll have to second one of you,--will Pile. He's a sort of father of
the borough in the way of Conservatives. And look here, Sir Thomas;--let him talk. Don't you
say much to him. It's no use in life talking to old Pile." Sir Thomas said nothing, but he
determined that he would speak to old Pile just as freely as he had to Mr. Trigger himself.

"Eh;--ah;"--said old Pile; "you're Sir Thomas Underwood, are you? And you wants to go into
Parliament?"

"If it please you and your townsmen to send me there."

"Yes;--that's just it. But if it don't please?"

"Why, then I'll go home again."

"Just so;--but the people here ain't what they are at other places, Sir Thomas Underwood. I've
seen many elections here, Sir Thomas."

"No doubt you have, Mr. Pile."

"Over a dozen;--haven't you, Mr. Pile?" said Trigger.

"And carried on a deal better than they have been since you meddled with them," said Mr. Pile,
turning upon Trigger. "They used to do the thing here as it should be done, and nobody wasn't
extortionate, nor yet cross-grained. They're changing a deal about these things, I'm told;
but they're changing all for the worse. They're talking of purity,--purity,--purity; and what
does it all amount to? Men is getting greedier every day."

"We mean to be pure at this election, Mr. Pile," said Sir Thomas. Mr. Pile looked him hard
in the face. "At least I do, Mr. Pile. I can answer for myself." Mr. Pile turned away his face,
and opened his mouth, and put his hand upon his stomach, and made a grimace, as though,--as
though he were not quite as well as he might be. And such was the case with him. The idea of
purity of election at Percy-cross did in truth make him feel very sick. It was an idea which
he hated with his whole heart. There was to him something absolutely mean and ignoble in the
idea of a man coming forward to represent a borough in Parliament without paying the regular
fees. That somebody, somewhere, should make a noise about it,--somebody who was impalpable
to him, in some place that was to him quite another world,--was intelligible. It might be all
very well in Manchester and such-like disagreeable places. But that candidates should come
down to Percycross and talk about purity there, was a thing abominable to him. He had nothing
to get by bribery. To a certain extent he was willing to pay money in bribery himself. But
that a stranger should come to the borough and want the seat without paying for it was to him
so distasteful, that this assurance from the mouth of one of the candidates did make him very sick.

"I think you'd better go back to London, Sir Thomas," said Mr. Pile, as soon as he recovered
himself sufficiently to express his opinion.

"You mean that my ideas as to standing won't suit the borough."

"No, they won't, Sir Thomas. I don't suppose anybody else will tell you so,--but I'll do it.
Why should, a poor man lose his day's wages for the sake of making you a Parliament man? What
have you done for any of 'em?"

"Half an hour would take a working man to the poll and back," argued Sir Thomas.

"That's all you know about elections. That's not the way we manage matters here. There won't
be any place of business agait that day." Then Mr. Trigger whispered a few words to Mr. Pile.
Mr. Pile repeated the grimace which he had made before, and turned on his heel although he
was in his own parlour, as though he were going to leave them. But he thought better of this,
and turned again. "I always vote Blue myself," said Mr. Pile, "and I don't suppose I shall
do otherwise this time. But I shan't take no trouble. There's a many things that I don't like,
Sir Thomas. Good morning, Sir Thomas. It's all very well for Mr. Trigger. He knows where the
butter lies for his bread."

"A very disagreeable old man," said Sir Thomas, when they had left the house, thinking that
as Mr. Trigger had been grossly insulted by the bootmaker he would probably coincide in this
opinion.

But Mr. Trigger knew his townsman well, and was used to him. "He's better than some of 'em,
Sir Thomas. He'll do as much as he says, and more. Now there was that chap Spicer at the mustard
works. They say Westmacott people are after him, and if they can make it worth his while he'll
go over. There's some talk about Apothecary's Hall;--I don't know what it is. But you couldn't
buy old Pile if you were to give him the Queen and all the Royal family to make boots for."

This was to have been the last of Sir Thomas's preliminary visits among the leading Conservatives
of the borough, but as they were going back to the "Percy Standard,"--for such was the name
of the Blue inn in the borough,--Mr. Trigger saw a gentleman in black standing at an open hall
door, and immediately proposed that they should just say a word or two to Mr. Pabsby. "Wesleyan
minister," whispered the Percycross bear-leader into the ear of his bear;--"and has a deal
to say to many of the men, and more to the women. Can't say what he'll do;--split his vote,
probably." Then he introduced the two men, explaining the cause of Sir Thomas's presence in
the borough. Mr. Pabsby was delighted to make the acquaintance of Sir Thomas, and asked the
two gentlemen into the house. In truth he was delighted. The hours often ran heavily with him,
and here there was something for him to do. "You'll give us a help, Mr. Pabsby?" said Mr. Trigger.
Mr. Pabsby smiled and rubbed his hands, and paused and laid his head on one side.

"I hope he will," said Sir Thomas, "if he is of our way cf thinking, otherwise I should be
sorry to ask him." Still Mr. Pabsby said nothing;--but he smiled very sweetly, and laid his
head a little lower.

"He knows we're on the respectable side," said Mr. Trigger. "The Wesleyans now are most as
one as the Church of England,--in the way of not being roughs and rowdies." Sir Thomas, who
did not know Mr. Pabsby, was afraid that he would be offended at this; but he showed no sign
of offence as he continued to rub his hands. Mr. Pabsby was meditating his speech.

"We're a little hurried, Mr. Pabsby," said Mr. Trigger; "perhaps you'll think of it."

But Mr. Pabsby was not going to let them escape in that way. It was not every day that he had
a Sir Thomas, or a candidate for the borough, or even a Mr. Trigger, in that little parlour.
The fact was that Mr. Trigger, who generally knew what he was about, had made a mistake. Sir
Thomas, who was ready enough to depart, saw that an immediate escape was impossible. "Sir Thomas,"
began Mr. Pabsby, in a soft, greasy voice,--a voice made up of pretence, politeness and saliva,--"if
you will give me three minutes to express myself on this subject I shall be obliged to you."

"Certainly," said Sir Thomas, sitting bolt upright in his chair, and holding his hat as though
he were determined to go directly the three minutes were over.

