 Came then
from Mallorca to restore her to her island, but as the celestial lady had law took Alcira and
its inhabitants, flying over the sea again without getting wet feet, and the Balearics, to
conceal this event as an image carved. It was all true, and as test there was the first hermit
buried at the foot of the altar, and there the Virgin with her face black as a result of the sun
and humidity of the sea that darkened in his miraculous journey.

The lady listened to the good man, smiling slightly, her maid, kept his ears to fear of losing
any word of a half-understood language, and his big eyes peasant credulous, would the image of the
narrator, expressing admiration for so portentous miracle.

Rafael had followed into the chapel, and was approaching the stranger who affected not to see
him.

- This is a tradition - he dared to say when the rustic finished his story .-- You understand
you, madam, that no one accepts such things here.

- I think so - the beautiful stranger replied gravely.

- Treason
or not, Don Rafael - growled the hermit with discontent - and was
told by my grandfather and all of his time, and so people think.

When so much has been said, there must be.

In the patch of sunlight cast by the doorway on the tiles, it marked the shadow of a woman.

It was a poorly dressed gardener.

He looked young, but his face pale and flaccid as paper marking the outgoing and cavities
of his skull, eyes sunken and dull and wicks dirty hair escaped from under the knotted handkerchief,
dábanla aspect of disease and misery. Walking barefoot, with shoes
in hand, swinging painfully, with legs apart, as if you experience
great pain when putting plants in the ground.

The hermit knew a lot,
and while the unhappy, panting from the ascent, and pain of her bare
feet, was dropped on a bench, he told his story in a nutshell Mrs
and Rafael. Wherefore I will here shewe such thinges as, in
mye opynione, may seme to be touched, not medlinge withe the seconde editione to one inferior
personne then my fathers editione was.

[Sidenote: Also vexed at a side blow at his father’s edition, and justifies him as editor.]
Ffyrste in yo{ur} forespeche to the reader, yo{u} saye “secondly the texte by written copies
corrected” by whiche worde corrected, I maye seme to gather, that yo{u} imagine greate imperfect{i}one
in my fathers editione, whiche peraduenture maye move others to saye (as some unadvisedlye
have sayed) that my father had wronged Chaucer: wherefore to stoppe that gappe, I will answere,
that Chaucers woorkes haue byn sithens printed twyce, yf not thrice, and therfore by oure carelesse
(and for the most p{ar}te unlerned) printers of Englande, not so well performed as yt ought
to bee: so that of necessytye bothe in matter, myter and meaninge, yt must needes gather corrupt{i}one,
passinge throughe so manye handes, as the water dothe the further yt run{n}ethe from the pure
founteyne. To enduce me and all others to iudge his edit{i}one (whiche I thinke yo{u} neuer
sawe wholye together, beinge fyrst printed but in one coolume in a page, whereof I will speake
hereafter) was the p{er}fectest: ys the ernest desire and love my father hadde to have Chaucers
woorkes rightlye to be publy{s}hed. for the performance whereof, my father not onlye used the
helpe of that lerned and eloquent kn[i]ghte and antiquarye Sir Briane Tuke, but had also made
greate serche for copies to p{er}fecte his woorkes, as apperethe in the ende of the squiers
tale, in his edit{i}one printed in the yere 1542; [Sidenote: His father’s collection of MS.
Chaucers and their curiosity.