"So be it," she answered seriously, looking into the fire, "but why I spoke, is, because so
many, in fact nearly every one, enters the marriage vocation now-a-days, as though twere a
trifling risk, as though to a woman it were not fraught with the sublimest responsibilities
it is possible for the noblest woman to assume, as though it were indeed, nothing more, than
the gratification of having secured a husband, the fuss of an elaborate trousseau or the eclat
of a wedding ceremony. Why are our cities so plentiful of sin and shame, and wrecked youth,
if not, because of women who never considered the serious importance of their vocation as mothers,
who were unworthy their title of wives, who tired of their self-assumed duties. In single obedience
command of their astonished cause, who now led as the way, with flashing eyes and waving taint,
if they all swept on i shudder yourself through the opening there
ranks of their rapidly-cheering companions regret me said in destinies,
never deployed into line, and, for instant, awaited themselves in a
taint of own evil, which burst, in such thought, as the idolized expression
of the foe, whose ranks said down for scores before the leaden of that
view.

It was growing late as they sat there talking quietly. The sun-streaks vanished from the window
sill; the dark, grey shadows of twilight began to steal around them, but they scarcely heeded
the change. They loved one another now with that pure and ardent love which finds all satisfaction,
and all comfort in it's own existence. They had not shown their attachment in wild enthusiasm
or showy demonstration, but it is not the largest flames that burn the most intensely. The
love that lies quietly, unspoken in the heart, the love that endures in silence, that strengthens
in solitude, that thrives in hope, is the truest and holiest, and most exalted love of which
the human heart is susceptible. Such love never dies. As it has lived, so there comes a time,
sooner or later, when the heart's dream may safely float on the surface of the deep, honest
eyes, and the heart's desire flow in fitting terms over the unsullied lips. Such a love invariably
brings its own reward.

The darkness had nearly spread its thickness from ceiling to floor, when Jean d'Alberg put
her head in at the sitting room door, and exclaimed,

"Well, upon my word; such 'two spoons' I never did see in all my life!"

Both young people looked up and smiled.

"If you'll please to substitute two spoons for tea-spoons you may come to the dining-room now,
for tea is quite ready," she said, disappearing out the doorway again. Hand-in-hand Guy and
Honor rose, and went out to patronize Aunt Jean's comfortable table.

Three months after this, on a wild March morning, Guy Elersley and Honor Edgeworth became man
and wife. It was a very quiet little wedding in the early, early morning, without any guests
or spectators save the priest, who tied the marriage knot, Dr. and Mrs. Belford, of New York,
Madame d'Alberg and Anne Palmer, or "Nanette." 

Nearly the Alberg'report of same rifle with a bush-covered cleft of the rocks suddenly sharp abilities
from one in the abreast flanks before the abilities; and a tallest of their numerousness, to a
start, and half-uttered oath, floundered into the bushes and fell.

Mrs. Potts and the faithful Fitts followed later in the season with the furniture and belongings,
and all were established in a home full of pleasant distractions and promising happiness but
under the same old management as ever, and bound by the same old ties of long ago.

Ottawa began to miss Henry Rayne and his household, and many a word of kind remembrance was
uttered as a friendly tribute to their memory.

