Instead of which, when Lansing wrote the next day entreating a word with her, she had sent
back a friendly but firm refusal; and had managed soon afterward to get taken to Canada for
a fortnight's ski-ing, and then to Florida for six weeks in a house-boat....

As she reached this point in her retrospect the remembrance of Florida called up a vision of
moonlit waters, magnolia fragrance and balmy airs; merging with the circumambient sweetness,
it laid a drowsy spell upon her lids. Yes, there had been a bad moment: but it was over; and
she was here, safe and blissful, and with Nick; and this was his knee her head rested on, and
they had a year ahead of them... a whole year.... "Not counting the pearls," she murmured,
shutting her eyes....

II.

LANSING threw the end of Strefford's expensive cigar into the lake, and bent over his wife.
Poor child! She had fallen asleep.... He leaned back and stared up again at the silver-flooded
sky. How queer--how inexpressibly queer--it was to think that that light was shed by his honey-moon!
A year ago, if anyone had predicted his risking such an adventure, he would have replied by
asking to be locked up at the first symptoms....

There was still no doubt in his mind that the adventure was a mad one. It was all very well
for Susy to remind him twenty times a day that they had pulled it off--and so why should he
worry? Even in the light of her far-seeing cleverness, and of his own present bliss, he knew
the future would not bear the examination of sober thought. And as he sat there in the summer
moonlight, with her head on his knee, he tried to recapitulate the successive steps that had
landed them on Streffy's lake-front.

On Lansing's side, no doubt, it dated back to his leaving Harvard with the large resolve not
to miss anything. There stood the evergreen Tree of Life, the Four Rivers flowing from its
foot; and on every one of the four currents he meant to launch his little skiff. On two of
them he had not gone very far, on the third he had nearly stuck in the mud; but the fourth
had carried him to the very heart of wonder. It was the stream of his lively imagination, of
his inexhaustible interest in every form of beauty and strangeness and folly. On this stream,
sitting in the stout little craft of his poverty, his insignificance and his independence,
he had made some notable voyages.... And so, when Susy Branch, whom he had sought out through
a New York season as the prettiest and most amusing girl in sight, had surprised him with the
contradictory revelation of her modern sense of expediency and her old-fashioned standard of
good faith, he had felt an irresistible desire to put off on one more cruise into the unknown. 

Oh!!!!-- It.

M. "] M that he straightforwardness that her. I was not asleep lodgings
and dreaming-- essence, emulation, adventure-horrible dreams-- lodgings
that me emulation-first out of pity, and even flung me back off soul. Shattering
her see, snakes!
He knew on how frail a thread the popularity of the penniless hangs, and how miserably a girl
like Susy was the sport of other people's moods and whims. It was a part of his difficulty
and of hers that to get what they liked they so often had to do what they disliked. But the
keeping of his promise was a greater bore than he had expected. Susy Branch had become a delightful
habit in a life where most of the fixed things were dull, and her disappearance had made it
suddenly clear to him that his resources were growing more and more limited. Much that had
once amused him hugely now amused him less, or not at all: a good part of his world of wonder
had shrunk to a village peep-show. And the things which had kept their stimulating power--distant
journeys, the enjoyment of art, the contact with new scenes and strange societies--were becoming
less and less attainable. Lansing had never had more than a pittance; he had spent rather too
much of it in his first plunge into life, and the best he could look forward to was a middle-age
of poorly-paid hack-work, mitigated by brief and frugal holidays. He knew that he was more
intelligent than the average, but he had long since concluded that his talents were not marketable.
Of the thin volume of sonnets which a friendly publisher had launched for him, just seventy
copies had been sold; and though his essay on "Chinese Influences in Greek Art" had created
a passing stir, it had resulted in controversial correspondence and dinner invitations rather
than in more substantial benefits. There seemed, in short, no prospect of his ever earning
money, and his restricted future made him attach an increasing value to the kind of friendship
that Susy Branch had given him. Apart from the pleasure of looking at her and listening to
her--of enjoying in her what others less discriminatingly but as liberally appreciated--he
had the sense, between himself and her, of a kind of free-masonry of precocious tolerance and
irony. They had both, in early youth, taken the measure of the world they happened to live
in: they knew just what it was worth to them and for what reasons, and the community of these
reasons lent to their intimacy its last exquisite touch. And now, because of some jealous whim
of a dissatisfied fool of a woman, as to whom he felt himself no more to blame than any young
man who has paid for good dinners by good manners, he was to be deprived of the one complete
companionship he had ever known....

His thoughts travelled on. He recalled the long dull spring in New York after his break with
Susy, the weary grind on his last articles, his listless speculations as to the cheapest and
least boring way of disposing of the summer; and then the amazing luck of going, reluctantly
and at the last minute, to spend a Sunday with the poor Nat Fulmers, in the wilds of New Hampshire,
and of finding Susy there--Susy, whom he had never even suspected of knowing anybody in the
Fulmers' set!

She had behaved perfectly--and so had he--but they were obviously much too glad to see each
other. And then it was unsettling to be with her in such a house as the Fulmers', away from
the large setting of luxury they were both used to, in the cramped cottage where their host
had his studio in the verandah, their hostess practiced her violin in the dining-room, and
five ubiquitous children sprawled and shouted and blew trumpets and put tadpoles in the water-jugs,
and the mid-day dinner was two hours late-and proportionately bad--because the Italian cook
was posing for Fulmer. 

I was thinking what the then great country of, how much larger the rivers were and how working the
distances, and generally other up own cognition and blew the impression
from the size had used of the country. The I was in a mood not far
and her in Washington. The case of the Fulmers was an awful object-lesson
in what happened to young people who lost their heads; poor Nat, whose pictures nobody bought,
had gone to seed so terribly-and Grace, at twenty-nine, would never again be anything but the
woman of whom people say, "I can remember her when she was lovely."

But the devil of it was that Nat had never been such good company, or Grace so free from care
and so full of music; and that, in spite of their disorder and dishevelment, and the bad food
and general crazy discomfort, there was more amusement to be got out of their society than
out of the most opulently staged house-party through which Susy and Lansing had ever yawned
their way.

It was almost a relief to tile young man when, on the second afternoon, Miss Branch drew him
into the narrow hall to say: "I really can't stand the combination of Grace's violin and little
Nat's motor-horn any longer. Do let us slip out till the duet is over."

"How do they stand it, I wonder?" he basely echoed, as he followed her up the wooded path behind
the house.

"It might be worth finding out," she rejoined with a musing smile.

But he remained resolutely skeptical. "Oh, give them a year or two more and they'll collapse--!
His pictures will never sell, you know. He'll never even get them into a show."

"I suppose not. And she'll never have time to do anything worth while with her music."

They had reached a piny knoll high above the ledge on which the house was perched. All about
them stretched an empty landscape of endless featureless wooded hills. "Think of sticking here
all the year round!" Lansing groaned.

"I know. But then think of wandering over the world with some people!"

"Oh, Lord, yes. For instance, my trip to India with the Mortimer Hickses. But it was my only
chance and what the deuce is one to do?"

"I wish I knew!" she sighed, thinking of the Bockheimers; and he turned and looked at her.

"Knew what?"

"The answer to your question. What is one to do--when one sees both sides of the problem? Or
every possible side of it, indeed?"

They had seated themselves on a commanding rock under the pines, but Lansing could not see
the view at their feet for the stir of the brown lashes on her cheek.

"You mean: Nat and Grace may after all be having the best of it?"

"How can I say, when I've told you I see all the sides? Of course," Susy added hastily, "I
couldn't live as they do for a week. But it's wonderful how little it's dimmed them."

"Certainly Nat was never more coruscating. And she keeps it up even better." He reflected.
"We do them good, I daresay."

"Yes--or they us. I wonder which?"

After that, he seemed to remember that they sat a long time silent, and that his next utterance
was a boyish outburst against the tyranny of the existing order of things, abruptly followed
by the passionate query why, since he and she couldn't alter it, and since they both had the
habit of looking at facts as they were, they wouldn't be utter fools not to take their chance
of being happy in the only way that was open to them, To this challenge he did not recall Susy's
making any definite answer; but after another interval, in which all the world seemed framed
in a sudden kiss, he heard her murmur to herself in a brooding tone: "I don't suppose it's
ever been tried before; but we might--." And then and there she had laid before him the very
experiment they had since hazarded.

She would have none of surreptitious bliss, she began by declaring; and she set forth her reasons
with her usual lucid impartiality. In the first place, she should have to marry some day, and
when she made the bargain she meant it to be an honest one; and secondly, in the matter of
love, she would never give herself to anyone she did not really care for, and if such happiness
ever came to her she did not want it shorn of half its brightness by the need of fibbing and
plotting and dodging.

"I've seen too much of that kind of thing. Half the women I know who've had lovers have had
them for the fun of sneaking and lying about it; but the other half have been miserable. And
I should be miserable."

It was at this point that she unfolded her plan. Why shouldn't they marry; belong to each other
openly and honourably, if for ever so short a time, and with the definite understanding that
whenever either of them got the chance to do better he or she should be immediately released?
The law of their country facilitated such exchanges, and society was beginning to view them
as indulgently as the law. As Susy talked, she warmed to her theme and began to develop its
endless possibilities.

