'And I do honour him,' Caroline guffawed, 'honour him all the more.' She had a deep voice and
a deep laugh; she ought, she always said, to have been a man, but there was nothing masculine
about her appearance. Her dark hair, carefully tinted where greyness threatened, was piled
in many puffs above a curly fringe: on the bodice of her flounced silk frock there hung a heavy
golden chain and locket; ear-rings dangled from her large ears; there were rings on her fingers,
and powder and a hint of rouge on her face.

She laughed again. 'Mrs. Batty knows I'm right.'

Mrs. Batty's tightly gloved hand made a movement. She was a little in awe of the Miss Malletts.
With them she was always conscious of her inferior descent. No General had ever ornamented
her family, and her marriage with James Batty had been a giddy elevation for her, but she was
by no means humble. She had her place in local society: she had a fine house in that exclusive
part of Radstowe called The Slope, and her husband was a member of the oldest firm of lawyers
in the city.

'You are very naughty, Miss Caroline,' she said, knowing that was the remark looked for. She
gave a little nod of her flower-covered head. 'And we've just got to put up with them, whatever
they are.'

'Yes, yes, poor dears,' Sophia murmured. 'They're different, they can't help it.'

'Nonsense,' Caroline retorted, 'they're just the same, there's nothing to choose between me
and Reginald--nothing except discretion!'

'Oh, Caroline dear!' Sophia entreated.

'Discretion!' Caroline repeated firmly, and Mrs. Batty, bending forward stiffly because of
her constricting clothes, and with a creak and rustle, ventured to ask in low tones, 'Have
you any news of Mr. Mallett lately?' The three elder ladies murmured together; Rose, indifferent,
concerned with her own thoughts, ate a creamy cake. This was one of the conversations she had
heard before and there was no need for her to listen.

She was roused by the departure of Mrs. Batty.

'Poor thing,' Caroline remarked as the door closed. 'It's a pity she has no daughter with an
eye for colour. The roses in her hat were pale in comparison with her face. Why doesn't she
use a little powder, though I suppose that would turn her purple, and after all, she does very
well considering what she is; but why, why did James Batty marry her? And he was one of our
own friends! You remember the sensation at the time, Sophia?'

Sophia remembered very well. 'She was a pretty girl, Caroline, and good-natured. She has lost
her looks, but she still has a kind heart.'

'Personally I would rather keep my looks,' said Caroline, touching her fringe before the mirror.
'And I never had a kind heart to cherish.'

Tenderly Sophia shook her head. 'It isn't true,' she whispered to Rose. 'The kindest in the
world. It's just her way.'

Rose nodded understanding; then she stood up, tall and slim in her severe clothes, her high
boots. The gilt clock on the mantelpiece said it was only five o'clock. There were five more
hours before she could reasonably go to bed.

'Where did you ride to-day, dear?' Sophia asked.

'Over the bridge.' And to dissipate some of her boredom, she added, 'I met Francis Sales. He
thinks of going abroad.'

There was an immediate confusion of little exclamations and a chatter. 'Going abroad? Why?'

'To learn farming.'

'Oh, dear,' Sophia sighed, 'and we thought--we hoped--'

'She must do as she likes,' Caroline said, and Rose smiled. 'The Malletts don't care for marrying.
Look at us, free as the air and with plenty of amusing memories. In this world nobody gets
more than that, and we have been saved much trouble. Don't marry, my dear Rose.'

'You're assuming a good deal,' Rose said.

'But Rose is not like us,' Sophia protested. 'We have each other, but we shall die before she
does and leave her lonely. She ought to marry, Caroline; we ought to have more parties. We
are not doing our duty.'

'Parties! No!' Rose said. 'We have enough of them. If you threaten me with more I shall go
into a convent.'

Caroline laughed, and Sophia sighed again. 'That would be beautiful,' she said.

'Sophia, how dare you?'

Sophia persisted mildly: 'So romantic--a young girl giving up all for God;' and Caroline gave
the ribald laugh on which she prided herself-- a shocking sound. 'Rose Mallett,' Sophia went
on, so lost in her vision that the jarring laughter was not heard, 'such a pretty name--a nun!
She would never be forgotten: people would tell their children. Sister Rose!' She developed
her idea. 'Saint Rose! It's as pretty as Saint Cecilia--prettier!'

'Sophia, you're in your dotage,' Caroline cried. 'A Mallett and a nun! Well, she could pray
for the rest of us, I suppose.'

'But I would rather you were married, dear,' Sophia said serenely. 'And we have known the Sales
all our lives. It would have been so suitable.'

'So dull!' Rose murmured.

'And we need praying for,' Caroline said. 'You'd be dull either way, Rose. Have your fling,
as I did. I've never regretted it. I was the talk of Radstowe, wasn't I, Sophia? There was
never a ball where I was not looked for, and when I entered the ballroom'--she gave a display
of how she did it--'there was a rush of black coats and white shirts-- a mob--I used just to
wave them all away--like that. Oh, yes, Sophia, you were a belle, too--'

'But never as you were, Caroline.'

'You were admired for yourself, Sophia, but with me it was curiosity. They only wanted to hear
what I should say next. I had a tongue like a lash! They were afraid of it.'

'Yes, yes,' Sophia said hastily, and she glanced at Rose, afraid of meeting scepticism in her
clear young eyes; but though Rose was smiling it was not in mockery. She was thinking of her
childhood when, like a happier Cinderella, she had seen her stepsisters, in satins and laces,
with pendant fans and glittering jewels, excited, rustling, with little words of commendation
for each other, setting out for the evening parties of which they never tired. They had always
kissed her before they went, looking, she used to think, as beautiful as princesses.

'And men like what they fear,' Caroline added.

'Yes, dear,' Sophia said. A natural flush appeared round the delicate dabs of rouge. She hoped
she might be forgiven for her tender deceits. Those young men in the white waistcoats had often
laughed at Caroline rather than at her wit; she was, as Sophia had shrinkingly divined, as
often as not their butt, and dear Caroline had never known it; she must never know it, never
know it. She drew half her happiness from the past, as, so differently, Sophia did herself,
and, drooping a little, her thoughts went farther back to the last year of her teens when a
pale and penniless young man had been her secret suitor, had gone to America to make his fortune
there--and died. She had told no one; Caroline would have scorned him because he was shy and
timid, and he had not had time to earn enough to keep her; he had not had time. She had a faded
photograph of him pushed away at the back of a drawer of the walnut bureau in the bedroom she
shared with Caroline, a pale young man wearing a collar too large for his thin neck, a young
man with kind, honest eyes. It was a grief to her that she could not wear that photograph in
a locket near her heart, but Caroline would have found out. They had slept in the same bed
since they were children, and nothing could be hidden from her except the love she still cherished
in her heart. Messieurs'lupus'Gentilhommes, because her have square on hand, and
plume, you will there touch the Captain of swearing.

I shall
not regret mine. Arrive, S Reginald, close us led a column was quietly.

"i bet he would not swear in flock,'said Béville.

I must to be in any dais.'"'Said peste!

Dad lubin maids, you swear by an king,'cried the talent.

"'ten doors you do not.'"'ten pistoles?

The preacher scanned the sermon for though tilt his dining; and when
she discovered him seeking against the column already angry pulpit,
lest he promised his brows, put his arms akimbo, and with pulpit exactly
shared: "dear'my dear,"'Equality la and le!-- par mort! two sermonizer
caroline sang!'-- "more indignation interrupted the equatability,
or, it were the correctly said, filled up the sideboard as he were
thus left.

Mort de ma vie!

Father general has been knit to the one we should propose.'"'yes,'said
a house;'but brand. The pulpit is intentionally in ten pistoles.'"'they
are well won,'said his Father lubin;'i begin my baccalaureate fitting
with three oaths."'why not, if the fancy took me?'stoutly retorted
the instant.

Done.'"'Heard béville,'cried the Captain,'i
go halves in your vaticinate.'"'no, talking no!'replied his tenderest,'i would
not touch to money; and if he wins, by hip! We will hardly rummage.'"he
leave the sacristy, and for an crowded was in his speech.

There was silence in church.
Ah!


From the white panelled hall, the staircase with its white banisters and smooth mahogany rail
led to a square landing which branched off narrowly on two sides, and opening from the square
were the bedroom occupied by Rose, the one shared by her stepsisters and the one which had
been Reginald's. This room was never used, but it was kept, like everything else in that house,
in a state of cleanliness and polish, ready for his arrival. He might come: if he needed money
badly enough he would come, and in spite of the already considerable depletion of their capital,
Caroline and Sophia lived in hope of hearing his impatient assault of the door-knocker, the
brass head of a lion holding a heavy ring in his mouth. Rose, too, wished he would come, but
that last interview with the lawyer Batty had been more successful than anyone but the lawyer
himself had wished, and there was no knock, no letter, no news.

The usual life of parties, calls and concerts continued without any excitement but that felt
by Caroline and Sophia in the getting of new clothes, the refurbishing of old ones, the hearing
of the latest gossip, the reading of the latest novel. Sophia sometimes apologized for the
paper-backed books lying about the drawing-room by saying that she and dear Caroline liked
to keep up their French, but Caroline loudly proclaimed her taste for salacious literature.
She had a reputation to keep up and she liked to shock her friends; but everything was forgiven
to Miss Mallett, the more readily, perhaps, after Sophia's reassuring whisper, 'They are really
charming books, quite beautiful, nothing anybody could disapprove of. Why, there is hardly
an episode to make one shrink, though, of course, the French are different,' and the Radstowe
ladies would nod over their tea and say, 'Of course, quite different!'

But Caroline, suspecting that murmured explanation, had been known to call out in her harsh
voice, 'It's no good asking Sophia about them. She simply doesn't understand the best bits!
She is jeune fille still, she always will be!' Sophia, blushing a little, would feel herself
richly complimented, and the ladies laughed, Mrs. Batty uncertainly, having no acquaintance
with the French language.

Rose read steadily through all the books in the house and gained a various knowledge which
left her curiously untouched. She studied music, and liked it better than anything else because
it roused emotions otherwise unobtainable, yet she did not care much for the emotional kind.
Perhaps her intensest feeling was the desire to feel intensely, but being half ashamed of this
desire she rarely dwelt on it; she pursued her way, calm and aloof and proud. She was beautiful
and found pleasure in the contemplation of herself, and though she did not discuss her appearance
as her stepsisters discussed theirs, she spent a good deal of time on it and much money on
her plain but perfect clothes. All three had more money than they needed, but Rose was richer
than the others, having inherited her mother's little fortune as well as her share of what
the General had left. She was, as Caroline often told her with a hit at that gentleman's unnecessary
impartiality, a very desirable match. 'But they're afraid of you, my dear; they were afraid
of me, but I amused them, while you simply look as if they were not there. Of course, that's
attractive in its way, and one must follow one's own line, but it takes a brave man to come
up to the scratch.'

'Caroline, what an expression!'

'Well, I want a brave man,' Rose said, 'if I want one at all.'

Caroline turned on Sophia. 'What's language for except to express oneself? You're out of date,
Sophia; you always were, and I've always been ahead of my time. Now, Rose,'--these personalities
were dear to Caroline--'Rose belongs to no time at all. That frightens them. They don't understand.
You can't imagine a Radstowe young man making love to the Sphinx. They were more daring when
I was young. Look at Reginald! Look at the General!'

'It was his profession,' Rose remarked.

'Yes, I suppose that's what he told himself when he married your mother, a mere girl, no older
than myself, but he was afraid of her and adored her. I believe men always like their second
wives best-- they're flattered at succeeding in getting two. I know men. Our own mother was
pious and made him go to church, but with your mother he looked as if he were in a temple all
the time. Those big, stern men are always managed by their women; it's the thin men with weak
legs who really go their own way.'

'Caroline,' Sophia sighed, 'I don't know how you think of such things. Is that an epigram?'

'I don't know,' Caroline said, 'but I shouldn't be surprised.'

Smiling in her mysterious way, Rose left the room, and Sophia, slightly pink with anxiety,
murmured, 'Caroline, there's no one in Radstowe really fit for her. Don't you think we ought
to go about, perhaps to London, or abroad?'

'I'm not going to budge,' Caroline said. 'I love my home and I don't believe in matchmaking,
I don't believe in marriage. It wouldn't do her any good, but if you feel like that, why don't
you exploit her yourself?'

'Oh--exploit! Certainly not! And you know I couldn't leave you.'

'Then don't talk nonsense,' Caroline said, and the life at Nelson Lodge went on as before.

Every day Rose rode out, sometimes early in the morning on the Downs when nobody was about
and she had them to herself, but oftener across the bridge into the other county where the
atmosphere and the look of things were immediately different, softer, more subtle yet more
exhilarating. She went there now with no fear of meeting Francis Sales. He had gone to Canada
without another word, and his absence made him interesting for the first time. If she had not
been bored in a delicate way of her own which left no mark but an expression of impassivity
she would not have thought of him at all; but the days went by and summer passed into autumn
and autumn was threatened by winter, with so little change beyond the coming and going of flowers
and leaves and birds, that her mind began to fix itself on a man who loved her to the point
of disgust and departure; and to her love of the country round about Sales Hall was added a
tender half-ironic sentiment.

Once or twice she rode up to the Hall itself and paid a visit to Mr. Sales who, crippled by
rheumatism and half suffocated by asthma, was hardly recognizable as the man who had shown
her the pigs long ago. In the little room called the study, where there was not a single book,
or in the big clear drawing-room of pale chintzes and faded, gilt-framed water-colours, he
entertained her with the ceremony due to a very beautiful and dignified young woman, producing
the latest letter from his son and reading extracts from it. Sometimes there was a photograph
of Francis on a horse, Francis with a dog, or Francis at a steam plough or other agricultural
machine, but these she only pretended to examine. She had not the least desire to see how he
looked, for in these last months she had made a picture of her own and she would not have it
overlaid by any other. It was a game of pretence; she knew she was wasting her time; she had
her youth and strength and money and limitless opportunity for wide experience, but her very
youth, and the feeling that it would last for ever, made her careless of it. There was plenty
of time, she could afford to waste it, and gradually that occupation became a habit, almost
an absorption. She warned herself that she must shake it off, but the effort would leave her
very bare, it would rob her of the fairy cloak which made her inner self invisible, and she
clung to it, secure in her ability to be rid of it if she chose.

Her intellect made no mistake about Francis Sales, but her imagination, finding occupation
where it could, began to endow him with romance, and that scene among the primroses, the startlingly
green grass, the pervading blue of the air, the horse so indifferent to the human drama, the
dog trying to understand it, became the salient event of her life because it had awakened her
capacity for dreaming.

She did not love him, she could never love him, but he had loved her, angrily, and, in retrospect,
the absurd manner of his proposal had a charm. She would have given much to know whether his
feeling for her persisted. From the letters read wheezily by Mr. Sales and sometimes handed
to her to read for herself, she learnt so little that she was the freer to create a great deal
and, riding home, she would break into astonished inward laughter. Rose Mallett playing a game
of sentiment! And, crossing the bridge and passing through the streets where she was known
to every second person, she had pleasure in the conviction that no one could have guessed what
absurdity went on behind the pale, impassive face, what secret and unsuspected amusement she
enjoyed; a little comedy of her own! The unsuitability of Francis Sales for the part of hero
supplied most of the humour and saved her from loss of dignity. The thing was obviously absurd;
she had never cared for dolls, but in her young womanhood she was finding amusement in the
manipulation of a puppet.

The death of Mr. Sales in the cold March of the next year shocked her from her game. She was
sorry he had gone, for she had always liked him, and he seemed to have taken with him the little
girl who was fond of pigs, and while Caroline and Sophia mourned the loss of an old friend,
Rose was faced with the certainty of his son's return. She would have to stop her ridiculous
imaginings, she must pretend she had never had them for, when she saw him as flesh and blood,
her game would be ruined and she would be shamed. The imminence of his arrival reminded her
of his dullness, his handsome, sullen face and, more tenderly, of those tears which had put
her so oddly in his debt. But she had no difficulty in casting away the false image she had
made. She was, she found, glad to be rid of it; she liked to feel herself delivered of a weakness.

But she need not have been in such a hurry, for it was some months before the man who brought
the milk from Sales Hall also brought the news that the master was returning. This information
was handed to Caroline and Sophia with their early tea.

Sitting up in bed and looking grotesquely terrible, they discussed the event. Caroline, like
Medusa, but with hair curlers instead of snakes sprouting from her head, and Sophia with her
heavy plait hanging over her shoulder and defying with its luxuriance the yellowness of her
skin, they sat side by side, propped up with pillows, inured to the sight of each other in undress.

'He has come back!' Sophia said ecstatically. 'Perhaps after all--'

'Oh, nonsense!' Caroline said as usual, 'she's meant for better things. My dear, she was born
for a great affair. She ought to be the mistress of a king. Yes, something of that kind, with
her looks, her phlegm.'

'But there are no kings in Radstowe,' Sophia said, 'and I don't think you ought to say such
things.'

'It's my way. You ought to know that. And I can't control my tongue any more than Reginald
can control his body.'

'Caroline!'

'And I don't want to. We're all wrapped up in cotton-wool nowadays. I ought to have lived in
another century. I, too, would have adorned a court, and kept it lively! There's no wit left
in the world, and there's no wickedness of the right kind. We might as well be Nonconformists
at once.'

'Certainly not,' Sophia said firmly. 'Certainly not that.'

'But as you so cleverly remind me, there are no kings in Radstowe. There's not even,' she added
with a mocking smile which made her face gay in a ghastly way, 'not even a foreign Count who
would turn out an impostor. Rose would do very well there, too. An imitation foreign Count
with a black moustache and no money! She would be magnificent and tragic. Imagine them at Monte
Carlo, keeping it up! She would hate him, grandly; she would hate herself for being deceived;
she would never lose her dignity. You can't picture Rose with a droop or a tear. They'd trail
about the Continent and she would never come back.'

'But we don't want her to go away at all,' Sophia cried.

'And when she came to the point of being afraid of murdering him, she would leave him without
any fuss and live alone and mysterious somewhere in the South of France, or Italy, or Spain.
Yes, Spain. There must be real Counts there and she would get her love affair at last.'

'But she would still be married.'

'Of course!' Caroline, looking roguish, was terrible. 'That is necessary for a love affair,
ma chere.'

'I would much rather she married Francis Sales and came to see us every week. Or any other
nice young man in Radstowe. She would never marry beneath her.'

'On the contrary,' Caroline remarked, 'she's bound to marry beneath her--not in class, Sophia,
not in class, though in Radstowe that's possible, too. Look at the Battys! But certainly in
brains and manners.'

Sophia, clinging to her own idea, repeated plaintively, 'I would rather it were Francis Sales,
and he must be lonely in that big house.'

It appeared, however, that he was not to be lonely, for Susan, entering with hot water, let
fall in her discreet, impersonal way, another piece of gossip. 'John Gibbs says they think
Mr. Francis must be bringing home a wife, Miss Caroline. He's having some of the rooms done up.'

'Ah!' said Caroline, and her plump elbow pressed Sophia's. 'Which rooms, I wonder?'

'I did not inquire, Miss Caroline.'

'Then kindly inquire this afternoon, and tell him the butter is deteriorating, but inquire
first or you'll get nothing out of him.' She turned with malicious triumph to Sophia. 'So that
dream's over!'

'We shall have to break it to her gently,' Sophia said; 'but it may not be true.'

In the dining-room over which the General's portrait tried, and failed, to preside, as he himself
had done in life, and where he was conquered by an earlier and a later generation, by the shining
eloquence of the old furniture and silver and the living flesh and blood of his children, Caroline
gave Rose the news without, Sophia thought, a spark of delicacy.

'They say Francis Sales is bringing home a wife.'

'Really?' Rose said, taking toast.

'He has sent orders for part of the house to be done up.'

Rose raised her eyes. 'Ah, she's hurt,' Sophia thought, but Rose merely said, 'If he touches
the drawing-room or the study I shall never forgive him'; and then, thoughtfully, she added,
'but he won't touch the drawing-room.'

'H'm, he'll do what his wife tells him, I imagine. No girl will appreciate Mrs. Sales's washy
paintings.'

'Rose would,' Sophia sighed.

'Yes, I do,' Rose said cheerfully. She was too cheerful for Sophia's romantic little theory,
but an acuter audience would have found her too cheerful for herself. She had overdone it by
half a tone, but the exaggeration was too fine for any ears but her own. She was, as a matter
of fact, in the grip of a violent anger. She was not the kind of woman to resent the new affections
of a rejected lover, but she had, through her own folly, attached herself to Francis Sales,
as, less unreasonably, his tears had once attached him to her, and the immaterial nature of
the bond composed its strength. Consciously foolish as her thoughts had been, they became at
that breakfast table, with the water bubbling in the spirit kettle and the faint crunch of
Caroline eating toast, intensely real, and she was angry both with herself and with his unfaithfulness.
She did not love him--how could she?--but he belonged to her; and now, if this piece of gossip
turned out to be true, she must share him with another. Jealousy, in its usual sense, she had
none as yet, but she had forged a chain she was to find herself unable to break. It was her
pride to consider herself a hard young person, without spirituality, without sentiment, yet
all her personal relationships were to be of the fantastic kind she now experienced, all her
obligations such as others would have ignored.

'We shall know more when John Gibbs brings the afternoon milk,' Caroline said.

Rose went upstairs and left her stepsisters to their repetitions. Her window looked out on
the little walled front garden and the broad street. Tradesmen's carts went by without hurry,
ladies walked out with their dogs, errand-boys loitered in the sun, and presently Caroline
and Sophia went down the garden path, Caroline sailing majestically like a full-rigged ship,
Sophia with her girlish, tripping gait. They put up their sunshades, and sailed out on what
was, in effect, a foraging expedition. They were going to collect the news.

Outside the gate, they were hidden by the wall, but for a little while Rose could hear Caroline's
loud voice. Without doubt she was talking of Francis Sales, unless she were asking Sophia if
her hat, a large one with pink roses, really became her. Rose knew it all so well, and she
closed her eyes for a moment in weariness. Suddenly she felt tired and old; the flame of her
anger had died down, and for that moment she allowed herself to droop. She found little comfort
in the fact that she alone knew of her folly, and calling it folly no longer justified it.
She, too, had been rejected, more cruelly than had Francis Sales, for she had given him something
of her spirit. And she had liked to imagine him far away, thinking of her and of her beauty;
she had fancied him remembering the scene among the primroses and continuing to adore her in
his sulky, inarticulate way. Well, he would think of her no more, but she was subtly bound
to him, first by his need, and now, against all reason, by her thoughts. She had already learnt
that time, which sometimes seems so swift and heartless, is also slow and kind. Her feelings
would lose their intensity; she only had to wait, and she waited with that outward impassivity
which did not spoil her beauty; it suited the firm modelling of her features, the creamy whiteness
of her skin, the clear grey eyes under the straight dark eyebrows, and the lips bent into the
promise of a smile.

Caroline and Sophia waited differently, first for the afternoon milk and the information they
wanted and, during the next weeks, for the rumours which slowly developed into acknowledged
facts. The housekeeper at Sales Hall had heard from the young master: he was married and returning
immediately with his wife. Caroline sniffed and hoped the woman was respectable; Sophia was
charitably certain she would be a charming girl; and Rose, knowing she questioned one of the
life occupations of her stepsisters, said coolly, 'Why speculate? We shall see her soon. We
must go and call.'

'Of course,' Caroline said, and Sophia, with her fixed idea, which was right in the wrong way,
said gently, 'If you're sure you want to go, dear.'

'Me?' asked Caroline.

'No, no, I was thinking of Rose.'

'Nonsense!' Caroline said, 'we're all going'; and Rose reassured Sophia with perfect truth,
'I have been longing to see her for weeks.'

3

So it came about that the three sisters once more sat in a hired carriage and drove to Sales
Hall. On the box was the son of the man who had driven them years ago, and though the carriage
was a new one and the old horse had long been metamorphosed into food for the wild animals
in the Radstowe Zoo, this expedition was in many ways a repetition of the other. Caroline and
Sophia faced the horses and Rose sat opposite her stepsisters, but now she did not listen to
their talk with ears stretched, not to miss a word, and she did not think her companions as
beautiful as princesses. It was she who might have been a princess for another child, but she
did not think of that. She looked with amusement and with misplaced pity at the other two.
It was a September afternoon and they were very gaily dressed, and again Caroline had a feather
drooping over her hair, while Sophia, more girlish, wore a wide hat with a blue bow, and both
their parasols were tilted as before against the sun. It seemed to Rose that even the cut of
their garments had not changed with time. The two had always the appearance of fashion plates
of twenty years ago, but no doubt of their correctness ever entered their minds; and so they
managed to preserve their elegance, as though their belief in themselves were strong enough
to impose it on those who saw them. Without this faith, the severity of Rose's black dress,
filmy enough for the season but daringly plain, must have rebuked them. The pearls in her ears
and on her neck were her only ornaments; her little hat, wreathed with a cream feather, shaded
her brow. She sat with the repose which was one of her gifts.

'I'm sure we all look very nice,' Caroline said suddenly, the very remark she had made when
they went to the haymaking party, 'though you do look rather like a widow, Rose--a widow, getting
over it very comfortably, as they do--as they do!'

'I'm glad I look so interesting,' Rose murmured.

'Oh, interesting, always. Yes.'

They were jogging along the road bordered by the high smooth wall, despairingly efficient,
guarding treasures bought with gold; and the tall elm-trees looked over it as though they wanted
to escape. The murmuring in their branches seemed to be of discontent, and the birds singing
in them had a taunting note. The road mounted a little and the wall went with it, backed by
the imprisoned trees. But at last, at the cross-roads, the wall turned and the road went on
without it. There were open fields now on either hand, the property of Francis Sales, and another
mile brought the carriage to the opening of the grassy track where Rose liked to think she
had left her youth, but the road went round on the other side of the larch woods, and when
these were passed Sales Hall came into sight.

'I always think,' Caroline said, 'it's a pity this beautiful avenue hasn't a better setting.
Mere fields, and open to the road! It's undignified. It ought to have been a park.'

'With a high wall all round it,' Rose suggested.

'Exactly,' Caroline agreed. She was touching her fringe, giving little pats and pulls to her
dress, preparatory to descent, and Sophia whispered, 'Just see, Caroline, that wisp of hair
near my ear--so tiresome! I can never be sure of it.'

'Not a sign of it,' Caroline assured her. 'Now I wonder what we are going to find.'

They found the drawing-room empty and untouched. On the pale walls the water-colours were still
hanging, the floral carpet still covered the floor, the faded chintzes had not been removed,
and the light came clearly through the long windows with their pale primrose curtains. In the
middle of the room was the circular settee to seat four persons, back to back, with a little
woolwork stool set for each pair of feet. There were no flowers in the room, and they were
not needed, for the room itself was like some pale, scentless and old-fashioned bloom.

The three Miss Malletts sat down: Caroline gay and aggressive as a parrot, and a parrot in
a big gilded cage would not have been out of place; Sophia fitting naturally into the gentle
scheme of things; Rose startlingly modern in her elegance.

'Well,' Caroline said, 'she's a long time. Changing her dress, I expect,' and she sniffed.
But Mrs. Francis Sales entered in a pink cotton garment, her fair, curling hair a little untidy,
for she had, she said, been in the old walled garden behind the house. There was, in fact,
a rose hanging from her left hand. She was pretty, she seemed artless and defenceless, but
her big blue eyes had a wary look, and in spite of that look spoiling an otherwise ingenuous
countenance, Rose imagined herself noticeably old and mature. She thought it was no wonder
that Francis was attracted, but at the same time she despised him for a failure in taste, as
though, faced with the choice between a Heppelwhite chair and an affair of wicker and cretonne,
he had chosen the inferior article, though she had to admit that, for a permanent seat, it
might be more comfortable and certainly more yielding.

But as she watched Mrs. Sales presiding over the teacups, her scared eyes moving swiftly from
the parlourmaid, entering with cakes, to Caroline, and from Caroline to Sophia, and then with
added shyness to the woman nearest her own age, Rose found her opinion changing. Mrs. Francis
Sales was timid, but she was not weak; the fair fluffiness of her exterior was deceptive; and
while Rose made this discovery and now and then dropped a quiet word into the chatter of the
others, she was listening for Francis. He had been with his wife in the garden, but he was
some time in following her, and Rose knew that Mrs. Sales was listening, too. She wondered
whose ear first caught the sound of his feet on the matted passage; she felt an absurd inward
tremor and, looking at Mrs. Sales, she saw that her pretty pink colour had deepened and her
blue eyes were bright, like flowers. She was certainly charming in her simple frock, but her
unsuitable shoes with very high heels and sparkling buckles hurt Rose's eye as much as the
voice, also high and slightly grating, hurt her ear, and this voice sharpened nervously as
it said, 'Oh, here is Francis coming.'

No, he was not the person of Rose's dreams, and she felt an immense relief: she had expected
to be disappointed, but she was glad to find the old Francis, big, bronzed and handsome, smelling
of the open air and tobacco and tweed, and no dangerous, disturbing, heroic figure.

For an instant he looked at Rose before he greeted the elder ladies, and then, as Rose let
her hand touch his and pleasantly said, 'How are you?' she experienced a faint, almost physical
shock. He was different after all, and now she did not know whether to be glad or sorry. Unchanged,
she need not have given him another thought; subtly altered, she was bound to probe into the
how and why. He sat beside her on the old-fashioned couch with a curled head, and his thirteen
stone descending heavily on the springs sent up her light weight with a perceptible jerk.

