Though Mr. Ferrars had been told nothing, he could not but be aware of the symptoms of a family
crisis--the gravity of some, and the pale, jaded looks of others.  Lucy was not one of these;
she came down with little Albinia in her arms, and began to talk rather airily, excusing herself
for not having come down in the evening because that 'horrid ink' had got into her hair, and
tittering a little over the absurdity of her having picked up the inkstand in the dark.  Not
a word of response did she meet, and her gaiety died away in vague alarm.  Sophy, the most
innocent, looked wretched, and Maurice absolutely began to cry again, at the failure of some
manoeuvre to make his father speak to Gilbert.

His tears broke up the breakfast-party.  His mother led him away to reason with him, that,
sad as it was, it was better that people should be grieved when they had transgressed, as the
only hope of their forgiveness and improvement.  Maurice wanted her to reverse the declaration
that Gilbert had done wrong; but, alas! this could not be, and she was obliged to send him
out with his little sister, hoping that he would work off his grief by exercise.  It was mournful
to see the first shadow of the penalty of sin falling on the Eden of his childhood!

With an aching heart, she went in search of Lucy, who had taken sanctuary in Mrs. Meadows's
room, and was not easily withdrawn from thence to a tete-a-tete.  Fearful of falsehood, Albinia
began by telling her she knew all, and how little she had expected such a requital of trust.

Lucy exclaimed that it had not been her fault, she had always wanted to tell, and gradually
Albinia drew from her the whole avowal, half shamefaced, half exultant.

She had never dreamt of meeting Algernon at Brighton--it was quite by chance that she came
upon him at the officers' ball when he was staying with Captain Greenaway.  He asked her to
dance, and she had said yes, all on a sudden, without thinking, and then she fancied he would
go away; she begged him not to come again, but whenever she went out on the chain-pier before
breakfast, there he was.

Why did she go thither?  She hung her head.  Mrs. Annesley had desired her to walk; she could
not help it; she was afraid to write and tell what was going on--besides, he would come, though
she told him she would not see him; and she could not bear to make him unhappy.  Then, when
she came home, she had been in hopes it was all over, but she had been very unhappy, and had
been on the point of telling all about it many times, when mamma looked at her kindly; but
then he came to the Vicarage, and he would wait for her at the bridge, and write notes to her,
and she could not stop it; but she had always told him it was no use, she never would be engaged
to him without papa's consent.  She had only promised that she would not marry any one else,
only because he was so very desperate, and she was afraid to break it off entirely, lest he
should go and marry the Principessa Bianca, a foreigner and Papist, which would be so shocking
for him and his uncle.  Gilbert could testify how grieved she was to have any secrets from
mamma; but Mr. Cavendish Dusautoy was so dreadful when she talked of telling, that she did
not know what would happen.

When he went away, and she thought it was all over--mamma might recollect how hard it was for
her to keep up, and what a force she put upon herself--but she would rather have pined to death
than have said one word to bring him back, and was quite shocked when Gilbert gave her his
note, to beg her to let him see her that evening, before the party returned; she said, with
all her might, that he must not come, and when he did, she was begging him all the time to
go away, and she was so dreadfully frightened when they actually came, that she had all but
gone into hysterics, or fainted away, and that was the way he came to throw the ink at her--she
was so very much shocked, and so would he be--and really she felt the misfortune to the beautiful
new sofa-cover as a most serious calamity and aggravation of her offence.

It was not easy to know how to answer; Albinia was scornful of the sofa-cover, and yet it was
hard to lay hold of a tangible subject on which to show Lucy her error, except in the concealment,
which, by her own showing, she had lamented the whole time.  She had always said no, but, unluckily,
her noes were of the kind that might easily be made to mean yes, and she evidently had been
led on partly by her own heart, partly by the force of the stronger will, though her better
principles had filled her with scruples and misgivings at every stage.  She had been often
on the point of telling all, and asking forgiveness; and here it painfully crossed Albinia,
that if she herself had been less hurried, and less disposed to take everything for granted,
a little tenderness might have led to a voluntary confession.

Still Lucy defended herself by the compulsion exercised on her, and she would hear none of
the conclusions Albinia drew therefrom; she would not see that the man who drove her to a course
of disobedience and subterfuge could be no fit guide, and fired up at a word of censure, declaring
that she knew that mamma had always hated him, and that now he was absent, she would not hear
him blamed.  The one drop of true love made her difficult to deal with, for the heart was really
made over to the tyrant, and Albinia did not feel herself sufficiently guiltless of negligence
and imprudence to rebuke her with a comfortable conscience.

Mr. Kendal had been obliged to attend to some justice business-- better for him, perhaps, than
acting as domestic magistrate--and meanwhile the Vicar of Fairmead found himself forgotten.
He wanted to be at home, yet did not like to leave his sister in unexplained trouble, though
not sure whether he might not be better absent.

Time passed on, he finished the newspaper, and wrote letters, and then, seeing no one, he had
gone into the hall to send for a conveyance, when Gilbert, coming in from the militia parade,
became the recipient of his farewells, but apparently with so little comprehension, that he
broke off, struck by the dejected countenance, and wandering eye.

'I beg your pardon,' Gilbert said, passing his hand over his brow, 'I did not hear.'

'I was only asking you to tell my sister that I would not disturb her, and leaving my good-byes
with you.'

'You are not going?'

'Thank you; I think my wife will grow anxious.'

'I had hoped'--Gilbert sighed and paused--'I had thought that perhaps--'

The wretchedness of his tone drove away Mr. Ferrars's purpose of immediate departure, and returning
to the drawing-room he said, 'If there were any way in which I could be of use.'

'Then you do not know?' said Gilbert, veiling his face with his hand, as he leant on the mantel-shelf.

'I know nothing.  I could only see that something was amiss.  I was wishing to know whether
my presence or absence would be best for you all.'

'Oh! don't go!' cried Gilbert.  Nobody must go who can be any comfort to Mrs. Kendal.'

A few kind words drew forth the whole piteous history that lay so heavily on his heart.  Reserves
were all over now; and irregularly and incoherently he laid open his griefs and errors, his
gradual absorption into the society with which he had once broken, and the inextricable complication
of mischief in which he had been involved by his debt.

'Yet,' he said, 'all the time I longed from my heart to do well.  It was the very thing that
led me into this scrape.  I thought if the man applied to my father, as he threatened, that
I should be suspected of having concealed this on purpose, and be sent to India, and I was
so happy, and thought myself so safe here.  I did believe that home and Mrs. Kendal would have
sheltered me, but my destiny must needs hunt me out here, and alienate even her!'

'The way to find the Devil behind the Cross, is to cower beneath it in weak idolatry, instead
of grasping it in courageous faith,' said Mr. Ferrars.  'Such faith would have made you trust
yourself implicitly to your father.  Then you would either have gone forth in humble acceptance
of the punishment, or else have stayed at home, free, pardoned, and guarded; but, as it was,
no wonder temptation followed you, and you had no force to resist it.'

'And so all is lost!  Even dear little Maurice can never be trusted to me again!  And his mother,
who would, if she could, be still merciful and pitying as an angel, she cannot forget to what
I exposed him!  She will never be the same to me again!  Yet I could lay down my life for any
of them!'

Mr. Ferrars watched the drooping figure, crouching on his chairs, elbows on knees, head bowed
on the supporting hands, and face hidden, and, listening to the meek, affectionate hopelessness
of the tone, he understood the fond love and compassion that had often surprised him in his
sister, but he longed to read whether this were penitence towards God, or remorse towards man.

'Miserable indeed, Gilbert,' he said, 'but if all were irretrievably offended, there still
is One who can abundantly pardon, where repentance is true.'

'I thought'--cried Gilbert--'I thought it had been true before!  If pain, and shame, and abhorrence
could so render it, I know it was when I came home.  And then it was comparative happiness;
I thought I was forgiven, I found joy and peace where they are promised'--the burning tears
dropped between his fingers--but it was all delusion; not prayers nor sacraments can shield
me--I am doomed, and all I ask is to be out of the way of ruining Maurice!'

'This is mere despair,' said Mr. Ferrars.  'I cannot but believe your contrition was sincere;
but steadfast courage was what you needed, and you failed in the one trial that may have been
sent you to strengthen and prove you.  The effects have been terrible, but there is every hope
that you may retrieve your error, and win back the sense of forgiveness.'

'If I could dare to hope so--but I cannot presume to take home to myself those assurances,
when I know that I only resolve, that I may have resolutions to break.'

'Have you ever laid all this personally before Mr. Dusautoy?'

'No; I have thought of it, but, mixed up as this is with his nephew and my sister, it is impossible!
But you are a clergyman, Mr. Ferrars!' he added, eagerly.

Mr. Ferrars thought, and then said,

'If you wish it, Gilbert, I will gladly do what I can for you.  I believe that I may rightly
do so.'

His face gleamed for a moment with the light of grateful gladness, as if at the first ray of
comfort, and then he said, 'I am sure none was ever more grieved and wearied with the burden
of sin--if that be all.'

'I think,' said Mr. Ferrars, 'that it might be better to give time to collect yourself, examine
the past, separate the sorrow for the sin from the disgrace of the consequences, and then look
earnestly at the sole ground of hope.  How would it be to come for a couple of nights to Fairmead,
at the end of next week?'

Gilbert gratefully caught at the invitation; and Mr. Ferrars gave him some advice as to his
reading and self-discipline, speaking to him as gently and tenderly as Albinia herself.  Both
lingered in case the other should have more to say, but at last Gilbert stood up, saying,

'I would thankfully go to Calcutta now, but the situation is filled up, and my father said
John Kendal had been enough trifled with.  If I saw any fresh opening, where I should be safe
from hurting Maurice!'

'There is no reason you and your brother should not be a blessing to each other.'

'Yes, there is.  Till I lived at home, I did not know how impossible it is to keep clear of
old acquaintance.  They are good-natured fellows--that Tritton and the like--and after all
that has come and gone, one would be a brute to cut them entirely, and Maurice is always after
me, and has been more about with them than his mother knows.  Even if I were very different,
I should be a link, and though it might be no great harm if Maurice were a tame mamma's boy--you
see, being the fellow he is, up to anything for a lark, and frantic about horses--I could never
keep him from them.  There's no such great harm in themselves--hearty, good-natured fellows
they are--but there's a worse lot that they meet, and Maurice will go all lengths whenever
he begins.  Now, so little as he is now, if I were once gone, he would never run into their
way, and they would never get a hold of him.'

Mr. Ferrars had unconsciously screwed up his face with dismay, but he relaxed it, and spoke kindly.

'You are right.  It was a mistake to stay at home.  Perhaps your regiment may be stationed
elsewhere.'

'I don't know how long it may be called out.  If it were but possible to make a fresh beginning.'

'Did you hear of my brother's suggestion?'

'I wish--but it is useless to talk about that.  I could not presume to ask my father for a
commission--Heaven knows when I shall dare to speak to him!'

'You have not personally asked his pardon after full confession.'

'N-o--Mrs. Kendal knows all.'

'Did you ever do such a thing in your life?'

'You don't know what my father is.'

'Neither do you, Gilbert.  Let that be the first token of sincerity.'

Without leaving space for another word, Mr. Ferrars went through the conservatory into the
garden, where, meeting the children, he took the little one in his arms, and sent Maurice to
fetch his mamma. Albinia came down, looking so much heated and harassed, that he was grieved
to leave her.

'Oh, Maurice, I am sorry!  You always come in for some catastrophe,' she said, trying to smile.
'You have had a most forlorn morning.'

'Gilbert has been with me,' he said.  'He has told me all, my dear, and I think it hopeful:
I like him better than I ever did before.'

'Poor feather, the breath of your lips has blown him the other way,' said Albinia, too unhappy
for consolation.

'Well, it seems to me that you have done more for him than I ever quite believed.  I did not
expect such sound, genuine religious feeling.'

'He always had plenty of religious sentiment,' said Albinia, sadly.

'I have asked him to come to us next week.  Will you tell Edmund so?'

'Yes.  He will be thankful to you for taking him in hand.  Poor boy, I know how attractive
his penitence is, but I have quite left off building on it.'

Mr. Ferrars defended him no longer.  He could not help being much moved by the youth's self-abasement,
but that might be only because it was new to him, and he did not even try to recommend him
to her mercy; he knew her own heart might be trusted to relent, and it would not hurt Gilbert
in the end to be made to feel the full weight of his offence.

'I must go,' he said, 'though I am sorry to leave you in perplexity. I am afraid I can do nothing
for you.'

'Nothing--but feel kindly to Gilbert,' said Albinia.  'I can't do so yet.  I don't feel as
if I ever could again, when I think what he was doing with Maurice.  Yes, and how easily he
could have brought poor Lucy to her senses, if he had been good for anything!  Oh! Maurice,
this is sickening work!  You should be grateful to me for not scolding you for having taken
me from home!'

'I do not repent,' said her brother.  'The explosion is better than the subterranean mining.'

'It may be,' said Albinia, 'and I need not boast of the good I did at home!  My poor, poor
Lucy!  A little discreet kindness and watchfulness on my part would have made all the difference!
It was all my running my own way with my eyes shut, but then, I had always lived with trustworthy
people.  Well, I wont keep you listening to my maundering, when Winifred wants you.  Oh! why
did that Polysyllable ever come near the place?'

Mr. Ferrars said the kindest and most cheering things he could devise, and drove away, not
much afraid of her being unforgiving.

He was disposed to stake all his hopes of the young man on the issue of his advice to make
a direct avowal to his father.  And Gilbert made the effort, though rather in desperation than
resolution, knowing that his condition could not be worse, and seeing no hope save in Mr. Ferrars'
counsel.  He was the first to seek Mr. Kendal, and dreadful to him as was the unaltering melancholy
displeasure of the fixed look, the steadily penetrating deep dark eyes, and the subdued sternness
of the voice, he made his confession fully, without reserve or palliation.

It was more than Mr. Kendal had expected, and more, perhaps, than he absolutely trusted, for
Gilbert had not hitherto inspired faith in his protestations that he spoke the whole truth
and nothing but the truth, nor had he always the power of doing so when overpowered by fright.
The manner in which his father laid hold of any inadvertent discrepancy, treating it as a wilful
prevarication, was terror and agony; and well as he knew it to be the meed of past equivocation,
he felt it cruel to torture him by implied suspicion.  Yet how could it be otherwise, when
he had been introducing his little brother to his own corrupters, and conniving at his sister's
clandestine correspondence with a man whom he knew to be worthless?'

The grave words that he obtained at last, scarcely amounted to pardon; they implied that he
had done irreparable mischief and acted disgracefully, and such forgiveness as was granted
was only made conditional on there being no farther reserves.

Alas! even with all tender love and compassion, no earthly parent can forgive as does the Heavenly
Father.

Mr. Kendal, after this interview, so far relaxed his displeasure as to occasionally address
Gilbert when they met at luncheon after this deplorable morning, while towards Lucy he observed
a complete silence.  It was not at first that she perceived this, and even then it struck more
deeply on Sophia than it did on her.

Mr. Kendal shrank from inflicting pain on the good vicar, and it was decided that the wives
should be the channel through which the information should be imparted.  Albinia took the children,
sending them to play in the garden while she talked to Mrs. Dusautoy.  She found that keen
little lady had some shrewd suspicions, but had discovered nothing defined enough to act upon,
and was relieved to have the matter opened at last.

As to the ink, no mortal could help laughing over it; even Albinia, who had been feeling as
if she could never laugh again, was suddenly struck by the absurdity, and gave way to a paroxysm
of merriment.

'Properly managed, I do think it might put an end to the whole affair,' said Mrs. Dusautoy.
'He could not stand being laughed at.'

'I'm afraid he never will believe that he can be laughed at.'

'Yes, that is unlucky,' said Mrs. Dusautoy, gravely; but recollecting that she was not complimentary,
she added, 'You must not think we undervalue Lucy.  John is very fond of her, and the only
objection is, that it would require a person of more age and weight to deal with Algernon.'

'Never mind speeches,' sighed Albinia; 'we know too well that nothing could be worse for either.
Can't you give him a tutor and send him to travel.'

'I'll talk to John; but unluckily he is of age next month, and there's an end of our power.
And John would never keep him away from hence, for he thinks it his only chance.'

'I suppose we must do something with Lucy.  Heigh-ho!  People used not to be always falling
in love in my time, except Fred, and that was in a rational way; that could be got rid of!'

The effect of the intelligence on the vicar was to make him set out at once to the livery-stables
in quest of his nephew, but he found that the young gentleman had that morning started for
London, whither he proposed to follow him on the Monday.  Lucy cried incessantly, in the fear
that the gentle-hearted vicar might have some truculent intentions towards his nephew, and
was so languid and unhappy that no one had the heart to scold her; and comforting her was still
more impossible.

Mr. Kendal used to stride away from the sight of her swollen eyes, and ask Albinia why she
did not tell her that the only good thing that could happen to her would be, that she should
never see nor hear of the fellow again.

Why he did not tell her so himself was a different question.

CHAPTER XXIV.

'Well, Albinia,' said Mr. Kendal, after seeing Mr. Dusautoy on his return from London.

There was such a look of deprecation about him, that she exclaimed, 'One would really think
you had been accepting this charming son-in-law.'

'Suppose I had,' he said, rather quaintly; then, as he saw her hands held up, 'conditionally,
you understand, entirely conditionally. What could I do, when Dusautoy entreated me, with tears
in his eyes, not to deprive him of the only chance of saving his nephew?'

'Umph,' was the most innocent sound Albinia could persuade herself to make.

'Besides,' continued Mr. Kendal, 'it will be better to have the affair open and avowed than
to have all this secret plotting going on without being able to prevent it.  I can always withhold
my consent if he should not improve, and Dusautoy declares nothing would be such an incentive.'

'May it prove so!'

'You see,' he pursued, 'as his uncle says, nothing can be worse than driving him to these resorts,
and when he is once of age, there's an end of all power over him to hinder his running straight
to ruin. Now, when he is living at the Vicarage, we shall have far more opportunity of knowing
how he is going on, and putting a check on their intercourse, if he be unsatisfactory.'

'If we can.'

'After all, the young man has done nothing that need blight his future life.  He has had great
disadvantages, and his steady attachment is much in his favour.  His uncle tells me he promises
to become all that we could wish, and, in that case, I do not see that I have the right to
refuse the offer, when things have gone so far-- conditionally, of course.'  He dwelt on that
saving clause like a salve for his misgivings.

'And what is to become of Gilbert and Maurice, with him always about the house?' exclaimed Albinia.

'We will take care he is not too much here.  He will soon be at Oxford.  Indeed, my dear, I
am sorry you disapprove.  I should have been as glad to avoid the connexion as you could be,
but I do not think I had any alternative, when Mr. Dusautoy pressed me so warmly, and only
asked that he should be taken on probation; and besides, when poor Lucy's affections are so
decidedly involved.'

Albinia perceived that there had been temper in her tone, and could object no further, since
it was too late, and as she could not believe that her husband had been weak, she endeavoured
to acquiesce in his reasoning, and it was a strong argument that they should see Lucy bright again.

'I suppose,' he said, 'that you would prefer that I should announce my decision to her myself!'

It was a more welcome task than spreading gloom over her countenance, but she entered in great
trepidation, prepared to sink under some stern mandate, and there was nothing at first to undeceive
her, for her father was resolved to atone for his concession by sparing her no preliminary
thunders, and began by depicting her indiscretion and deceit, as well as the folly of attaching
herself to a man without other recommendations than figure and fortune.

