 Them he could not resist.

A poor girl had been born in shame and abandonment a child. Great bright eyes advised the expectant
newborns into the world. This obscured the shining stars Death. She was busy everywhere planning for everybody, and making out various
lists. But, as she said, there is a little black spot in almost every joy. And her little black
spot was Dick Lancaster.

"Poor Professor Lancaster!" she said to her husband. "We to have such a great pleasure, and
he shut up in close rooms! And Olive far away!"

"Are you sure about Olive?" asked Mr. Easterfield. "She has never said positively that she
is going. I most earnestly hope that she will not back out because Lancaster can not go. If
she stays her uncle will stay."

"And for that very reason she will go," said Mrs. Easterfield. "And I think Professor Lancaster
will urge her to go. He is unselfish enough, I am sure, to wish her to have this great pleasure.
And, talking of Olive, one thing is certain, Tom, we must be back early in the spring. Now to the meat of today's pheasant
Meal, to increase the festival was hatched by both Alts, planned an innovation just now the
Round Table should be presented, and this innovation was the first time official administration of
forks. [2] Louis was not a little old interested in the effects this change and had ordered that
should the "pheasant-course" of this commodity be presented. Of course, the mayor was interested
mostly to learn what The prince will say to sothaner innovation.

It was true Olive had never said in words conclusively whether she would go or not. But she
was extremely anxious that her father should go, and she implicitly followed Mrs. Easterfield's
directions in making preparations for him, and was just as earnest in making her own; and her
friend was certainly justified in thinking all this was a tacit consent.

As for the two captains, they were so delighted at this heavenly prospect that they gave up
talking about Dick and Olive, and read guide-books to each other, and studied maps, and sea-charts
until their brains were nearly addled. They were a source of great amusement to the young people
when Dick came for his frequent short visits.

It was evident to all interested that Professor Lancaster approved of the expedition, for he
entered heartily into all the talk about the various places to be visited, and all that was
to be done on the vessel; and he did not bore them with any lamentations in regard to the coming
separation between him and Olive. And, of course, every one respected his feelings, and said
nothing to him about it.

The weeks went by; all the preparations were made; and at last the time came when the company
were to assemble at the toll-gate and Broadstone before the final plunge into the unknown. The consequences of Mißwachses
last year the Salzburg got to feel it was inflation, a grain shortage, and the Arms of the councilors
were besieged, the mayor, that this help make it. Lewis had a heart for the needy old, he was
willing to own resources, consulted with members of the Select Council, said, probably with the
Stadtkastner, but with the limited funds from the city treasury of the calamity could be addressed
in any way.
They had hoped to bring Mr. Locker, but he had not arrived. They found two captains at the
toll-gate in even merrier mood. Dick Lancaster was there, having arrived that morning, and
they were none of them surprised that he looked serious. The ladies were not immediately asked
to go up-stairs to remove their wraps, for Olive was not there to receive them. She soon, however,
made her appearance in a lovely white dress that had been made for the trip under Mrs. Easterfield's
supervision. Dick Lancaster immediately got up from his chair and joined her; and the Reverend
Mr. Faulkner appeared from some mysterious place, and the astonished guests were treated to
a very pretty marriage ceremony.

It was soon over, and the two jolly captains laughed heartily at the bewilderment of the Broadstone
party. And then there was a wild time of hand-shaking and congratulations and embracing. Instruments I want in the near future that will carry the
Shoot the wolf Raittenau name. "

Lamberg dared in his turn the searching look in the areas addressed, but said nothing.

More for Dietrich, Wolf developed his hasty nature grand schemes,
such as the Wolf should be little educated, trained, that he will
one day due its place engaging than a Raittenau.

Lamberg expressed his loyal support by repeated bows and maintained Thoughts to themselves. not
love but the prince interrupted, and hints that it could be different
than the temperamental master believes are Wolf Dietrich all time
hated. And when Dick came he brought the license
and Mr. Faulkner. And now I don't see how Mr. Easterfield can help inviting us."

Mr. Easterfield was standing by his wife, and as Olive finished her explanation he took his
wife's hand and gave it a gentle squeeze of sympathy; and that heroic woman never flinched;
nor did she ever say one word about that pretty wedding she had planned for the spring.

They had all nearly finished the fried chicken with white sauce, when Claude Locker arrived.
He had missed the regular train and had come on a freight; had got a horse when he reached
Broadstone.

"I am more tired than if I had walked," he grumbled. "I am always in bad luck! I am an unlucky
dog! But you are so good you will excuse me, Miss Asher."

"That is not my name," said Olive gravely.

And with both eyes of the same size, Mr. Locker looked around, wondering why everybody was
laughing.

"Let me introduce Mrs. Lancaster," said Dick with a bow.

"Do you mean," cried Locker, starting up, "that this thing is really done?"

"No," said Olive. "It has just begun."

THE END