"You cannot imagine it because you don't know anything about it, young gentleman! The manners
of some of our own young people will soon be as dishevelled as those in New York. Have you
seen our town yet, or is it all books with you? You should not leave without a look at what
is still left of us. I shall be happy if you will sit in my pew on Sunday morning. Your Northern
shells did their best in the bombardment--did you say that you rang? I think you had better
pull it again; all the way out; yes, like that--in the bombardment, but we have our old church
still, in spite of you. Do you see the crack in that wall? The earthquake did it. You're spared
earthquakes in the North, as you seem to be spared pretty much everything disastrous--except
the prosperity that's going to ruin you all. We're better off with our poverty than you. Just
ring the bell once more, and then we'll go. I fancy Julia--I fancy Mrs. Weguelin St. Michael--has
run out to stare at the Northern steam yacht in the harbor. It would be just like her. This
house is historic itself. Shabby enough now, to be sure! The great-aunt of my cousin, John
Mayrant (who is going to be married next Wednesday, to such a brute of a girl, poor boy!),
lived here in 1840, and made an answer to the Earl of Mainridge that put him in his place.
She was our famous Kings Port wit, and at the reception which her father (my mother's uncle)
gave the English visitor, he conducted himself as so many Englishmen seem to think they can
in this country. Miss Beaufain (pronounced in Kings Port, Bowfayne), as she was then, asked
the Earl how he liked America; and he replied, very well, except for the people, who were so
vulgar. 'What can you expect?' said Miss Beaufain; 'we're descended from the English.' Mrs.
St. Michael is out, and the servant has gone home. Slide this card under the door, with your
own, and come away."

She took me with her, moving through the quiet South Place with a leisurely grace and dignity
at which my spirit rejoiced; she was so beautiful, and so easy, and afraid of nothing and nobody!
(This must be modified. I came later to suspect that they all stood in some dread of their
own immediate families.)

In the North, everybody is afraid of something: afraid of the legislature, afraid of the trusts,
afraid of the strikes, afraid of what the papers will say, of what the neighbors will say,
of what the cook will say; and most of all, and worst of all, afraid to be different from the
general pattern, afraid to take a step or speak a syllable that shall cause them to be thought
unlike the monotonous millions of their fellow-citizens; the land of the free living in ceaseless
fear! Well, I was already afraid of Mrs. Gregory St. Michael. As we walked and she talked,
I made one or two attempts at conversation, and speedily found that no such thing was the lady's
intention: I was there to listen; and truly I could wish nothing more agreeable, in spite of
my desire to hear further about next Wednesday's wedding and the brute of a girl. But to this
subject Mrs. St. Michael did not return. We crossed Worship Street and Chancel Street, and
were nearing the East Place where a cannon was being shown me, a cannon with a history and
an inscription concerning the "war for Southern independence, which I presume your prejudice
calls the Rebellion," said my guide. "There's Mrs. St. Michael now, coming round the corner.
Well, Julia, could you read the yacht's name with your naked eye? And what's the name of the
gambler who owns it? He's a gambler, or he couldn't own a yacht--unless his wife's a gambler's
daughter."

"How well you're feeling to-day, Maria!" said the other lady, with a gentle smile.

"Certainly. I have been talking for twenty minutes." I was now presented to Mrs. Weguelin St.
Michael, also old, also charming, in widow's dress no less in the bloom of age than Mrs. Gregory,
but whiter and very diminutive. She shyly welcomed me to Kings Port. "Take him home with you,
Julia. We pulled your bell three times, and it's too damp for you to be out. Don't forget,"
Mrs. Gregory said to me, "that you haven't told me a word about your Aunt Carola, and that
I shall expect you to come and do it." She went slowly away from us, up the East Place, tall,
graceful, sweeping into the distance like a ship. No haste about her dignified movement, no
swinging of elbows, nothing of the present hour!

"What a beautiful girl she must have been!" I murmured aloud, unconsciously.

"No, she was not a beauty in her youth," said my new guide in her shy voice, "but always fluent,
always a wit. Kings Port has at times thought her tongue too downright. We think that wit runs
in her family, for young John Mayrant has it; and her first-cousin-once-removed put the Earl
of Mainridge in his place at her father's ball in 1840. Her young cousin, John Mayrant, is
making an alliance deeply vexatious to her. Do you happen to know Miss Hortense Rieppe?"

I had never heard of her.

"No? She has been North lately. I thought you might have met her. Her father takes her North,
I believe, whenever any one will invite them. They have sometimes managed to make it extend
through an unbroken year. Newport, I am credibly informed, greatly admires her. We in Kings
Port have never (except John Mayrant, apparently) seen anything in her beauty, which Northerners
find so exceptional."

"What is her type?" I inquired.

"I consider that she looks like a steel wasp. And she has the assurance to call herself a Kings
Port girl. Her father calls himself a general, and it is repeated that he ran away at the battle
of Chattanooga. I hope you will come to see me another day, when you can spare time from the
battle of Cowpens. I am Mrs. Weguelin St. Michael, the other lady is Mrs. Gregory St. Michael.
I wonder if you will keep us all straight?" And smiling, the little lady, whose shy manner
and voice I had found to veil as much spirit as her predecessor's, dismissed me and went up
her steps, letting herself into her own house.

The boy in question, the boy of the cake, John Mayrant, was coming out of the gate at which
I next rang. The appearance of his boyish figure and well-carried head struck me anew, as it
had at first; from his whole person one got at once a strangely romantic impression. He looked
at me, made as if he would speak, but passed on. Probably he had been hearing as much about
me as I had been hearing about him. At this house the black servant had not gone home for the
night, and if the mistress had been out to take a look at the steam yacht, she had returned.

"My sister," she said, presenting me to a supremely fine-looking old lady, more chiselled,
more august, than even herself. I did not catch this lady's name, and she confined herself
to a distant, though perhaps not unfriendly, greeting. She was sitting by a work-table, and
she resumed some embroidery of exquisite appearance, while my hostess talked to me.

Both wore their hair in a simple fashion to suit their years, which must have been seventy
or more; both were dressed with the dignity that such years call for; and I may mention here
that so were all the ladies above a certain age in this town of admirable old-fashioned propriety.
In New York, in Boston, in Philadelphia, ladies of seventy won't be old ladies any more; they're
unwilling to wear their years avowedly, in quiet dignity by their firesides; they bare their
bosoms and gallop egregiously to the ball-rooms of the young; and so we lose a particular graciousness
that Kings Port retains, a perspective of generations. We happen all at once, with no background,
in a swirl of haste and similarity.

One of the many things which came home to me during the conversation that now began (so many
more things came home than I can tell you!) was that Mrs. Gregory St. Michael's tongue was
assuredly "downright" for Kings Port. This I had not at all taken in while she talked to me,
and her friend's reference to it had left me somewhat at a loss. That better precision and
choice of words which I have mentioned, and the manner in which she announced her opinions,
had put me in mind of several fine ladles whom I had known in other parts of the world; but
hers was an individual manner, I was soon to find, and by no means the Kings Port convention.
This convention permitted, indeed, condemnations of one's neighbor no less sweeping, but it
conveyed them in a phraseology far more restrained.

"I cannot regret your coming to Kings Port," said my hostess, after we had talked for a little
while, and I had complimented the balmy March weather and the wealth of blooming flowers; "but
I fear that Fanning is not a name that you will find here. It belongs to North Carolina."

I smiled and explained that North Carolina Fannings were useless to me. "And, if I may be so
bold, how well you are acquainted with my errand!"

I cannot say that my hostess smiled, that would be too definite; but I can say that she did
not permit herself to smile, and that she let me see this repression. "Yes," she said, "we
are acquainted with your errand, though not with its motive."

I sat silent, thinking of the Exchange.

My hostess now gave me her own account of why all things were known to all people in this town.
"The distances in your Northern cities are greater, and their population is much greater. There
are but few of us in Kings Port." In these last words she plainly told me that those "few"
desired no others. She next added: "My nephew, John Mayrant, has spoken of you at some length."

I bowed. "I had the pleasure to see and hear him order a wedding cake."

"Yes. From Eliza La Heu (pronounced Layhew), my niece; he is my nephew, she is my niece on
the other side. My niece is a beginner at the Exchange. We hope that she will fulfil her duties
there in a worthy manner. She comes from a family which is schooled to meet responsibilities."

I bowed again; again it seemed fitting. "I had not, until now, known the charming girl's name,"
I murmured.

My hostess now bowed slightly. "I am glad that you find her charming."

"Indeed, yes!" I exclaimed.

"We, also, are pleased with her. She is of good family--for the up-country."

Once again our alphabet fails me. The peculiar shade of kindness, of recognition, of patronage,
which my agreeable hostess (and all Kings Port ladies, I soon noticed) imparted to the word
"up-country" cannot be conveyed except by the human voice--and only a Kings Port voice at that.
It is a much lighter damnation than what they make of the phrase "from Georgia," which I was
soon to hear uttered by the lips of the lady. "And so you know about his wedding cake?"

"My dear madam, I feel that I shall know about everything."

Her gray eyes looked at me quietly for a moment. "That is possible. But although we may talk
of ourselves to you, we scarcely expect you to talk of ourselves to us."

Well, my pertness had brought me this quite properly! And I received it properly. "I should
never dream--" I hastened to say; "even without your warning. I find I'm expected to have seen
the young lady of his choice," I now threw out. My accidental words proved as miraculous as
the staff which once smote the rock. It was a stream, indeed, which now broke forth from her
stony discretion. She began easily. "It is evident that you have not seen Miss Rieppe by the
manner in which you allude to her--although of course, in comparison with my age, she is a
young girl." I think that this caused me to open my mouth.

"The disparity between her years and my nephew's is variously stated," continued the old lady.
"But since John's engagement we have all of us realized that love is truly blind."

I did not open my mouth any more; but my mind's mouth was wide open.

My hostess kept it so. "Since John Mayrant was fifteen he has had many loves; and for myself,
knowing him and believing in him as I do, I feel confident that he will make no connection
distasteful to the family when he really comes to marry."

This time I gasped outright. "But--the cake!--next Wednesday!"

She made, with her small white hand, a slight and slighting gesture. "The cake is not baked
yet, and we shall see what we shall see." From this onward until the end a pinkness mounted
in her pale, delicate cheeks, and deep, strong resentment burned beneath her discreetly expressed
indiscretions. "The cake is not baked, and I, at least, am not solicitous. I tell my cousin,
Mrs. Gregory St. Michael, that she must not forget it was merely his phosphates. That girl
would never have looked at John Mayrant had it not been for the rumor of his phosphates. I
suppose some one has explained to you her pretensions of birth. Away from Kings Port she may
pass for a native of this place, but they come from Georgia. It cannot be said that she has
met with encouragement from us; she, however, easily recovers from such things. The present
generation of young people in Kings Port has little enough to remind us of what we stood for
in manners and customs, but we are not accountable for her, nor for her father. I believe that
he is called a general. His conduct at Chattanooga was conspicuous for personal prudence. Both
of them are skillful in never knowing poor people--but the Northerners they consort with must
really be at a loss how to bestow their money. Of course, such Northerners cannot realize the
difference between Kings Port and Georgia, and consequently they make much of her. Her features
do undoubtedly possess beauty. A Newport woman--the new kind--has even taken her to Worth!
And yet, after all, she has remained for John. We heard a great deal of her men, too. She took
care of that, of course. John Mayrant actually followed her to Newport.

"But," I couldn't help crying out, "I thought he was so poor!"

"The phosphates," my hostess explained. "They had been discovered on his land. And none of
her New York men had come forward. So John rushed back happy." At this point a very singular
look came over the face of my hostess, and she continued: "There have been many false reports
(and false hopes in consequence) based upon the phosphate discoveries. It was I who had to
break it to him--what further investigation had revealed. Poor John!"

"He has, then, nothing?" I inquired.

"His position in the Custom House, and a penny or two from his mother's fortune."

"But the cake?" I now once again reminded her.

My hostess lifted her delicate hand and let it fall. Her resentment at the would-be intruder
by marriage still mounted. "Not even from that pair would I have believed such a thing possible!"
she exclaimed; and she went into a long, low, contemplative laugh, looking not at me, but at
the fire. Our silent companion continued to embroider. "That girl," my hostess resumed, "and
her discreditable father played on my nephew's youth and chivalry to the tune of--well, you
have heard the tune."

"You mean--you mean--?" I couldn't quite take it in.

"Yes. They rattled their poverty at him until he offered and they accepted."

I must have stared grotesquely now. "That--that--the cake--and that sort of thing--at his expense?

"My dear sir, I shall be glad if you can find me anything that they have ever done at their
own expense!"

I doubt if she would ever have permitted her speech such freedom had not the Rieppes been "from
Georgia"; I am sure that it was anger--family anger, race anger--which had broken forth; and
I think that her silent, severe sister scarcely approved of such breaking forth to me, a stranger.
But indignation had worn her reticence thin, and I had happened to press upon the weak place.
After my burst of exclamation I came back to it. "So you think Miss Rieppe will get out of it?"

"It is my nephew who will 'get out of it,' as you express it."

I totally misunderstood her. "Oh!" I protested stupidly. "He doesn't look like that. And it
takes all meaning from the cake."

"Do not say cake to me again!" said the lady, smiling at last. "And--will you allow me to tell
you that I do not need to have my nephew, John Mayrant, explained to me by any one? I merely
meant to say that he, and not she, is the person who will make the lucky escape. Of course,
he is honorable--a great deal too much so for his own good. It is a misfortune, nowadays, to
be born a gentleman in America. But, as I told you, I am not solicitous. What she is counting
on--because she thinks she understands true Kings Port honor, and does not in the least--is
his renouncing her on account of the phosphates--the bad news, I mean. They could live on what
he has--not at all in her way, though--and besides, after once offering his genuine, ardent,
foolish love--for it was genuine enough at the time--John would never--"

She stopped; but I took her up. "Did I understand you to say that his love was genuine at the
lime?"

"Oh, he thinks it is now--insists it is now! That is just precisely what would make him--do
you not see?--stick to his colors all the closer."

"Goodness!" I murmured. "What a predicament!"

But my hostess nodded easily. "Oh, no. You will see. They will all see."

I rose to take my leave; my visit, indeed, had been, for very interest, prolonged beyond the
limits of formality--my hostess had attended quite thoroughly to my being entertained. And
at this point the other, the more severe and elderly lady, made her contribution to my entertainment.
She had kept silence, I now felt sure, because gossip was neither her habit nor to her liking.
Possibly she may have also felt that her displeasure had been too manifest; at any rate, she
spoke out of her silence in cold, yet rich, symmetrical tones.

"This, I understand, is your first visit to Kings Port?"

I told her that it was.

She laid down her exquisite embroidery. "It has been thought a place worth seeing. There is
no town of such historic interest at the North."

Standing by my chair, I assured her that I did not think there could be.

"I heard you allude to my half-sister-in-law, Mrs. Weguelin St. Michael. It was at the house
where she now lives that the famous Miss Beaufain (as she was then) put the Earl of Mainridge
in his place, at the reception which her father gave the English visitor in 1840.

"But I suppose you will tell me that your Northern beauties can easily outmatch such wit."

I hastened to disclaim any such pretension; and having expressed my appreciation of the anecdote,
I moved to the door as the stately lady resumed her embroidery.

My hostess had a last word for me. "Do not let the cake worry you."

Outside the handsome old iron gate I looked at my watch and found that for this day I could
spend no more time upon visiting.

IV: THE GIRL BEHIND THE COUNTER--I

I fear--no; to say one "fears" that one has stepped aside from the narrow path of duty, when
one knows perfectly well that one has done so, is a ridiculous half-dodging of the truth; let
me dismiss from my service such a cowardly circumlocution, and squarely say that I neglected
the Cowpens during certain days which now followed. Nay, more; I totally deserted them. Although
I feel quite sure that to discover one is a real king's descendant must bring an exultation
of no mean order to the heart, there's no exultation whatever in failing to discover this,
day after day. Mine is a nature which demands results, or at any rate signs of results coming
sooner or later. Even the most abandoned fisherman requires a bite now and then; but my fishing
for Fannings had not yet brought me one single nibble--and I gave up the sad sport for a while.
The beautiful weather took me out of doors over the land, and also over the water, for I am
a great lover of sailing; and I found a little cat-boat and a little negro, both of which suited
me very well. I spent many delightful hours in their company among the deeps and shallows of
these fair Southern waters.

And indoors, also, I made most agreeable use of my time, in spite of one disappointment when,
on the day following my visit to the ladies, I returned full of expectancy to lunch at the
Woman's exchange, the girl behind the counter was not there. I found in her stead, it is true,
a most polite lady, who provided me with chocolate and sandwiches that were just as good as
their predecessors; but she was of advanced years, and little inclined to light conversation.
Beyond telling me that Miss Eliza La Heu was indisposed, but not gravely so, and that she was
not likely to be long away from her post of duty, this lady furnished me with scant information.

Now I desired a great deal of information. To learn of an imminent wedding where the bridegroom
attends to the cake, and is suspected of diminished eagerness for the bride, who is a steel
wasp--that is not enough to learn of such nuptials. Therefore I fear--I mean, I know--that
it was not wholly for the sake of telling Mrs. Gregory St. Michael about Aunt Carola that I
repaired again to Le Maire Street and rang Mrs. St. Michael's door-bell.

She was at home, to be sure, but with her sat another visitor, the tall, severe lady who had
embroidered and had not liked the freedom with which her sister had spoken to me about the
wedding. There was not a bit of freedom to-day; the severe lady took care of that.

When, after some utterly unprofitable conversation, I managed to say in a casual voice, which
I thought very well tuned for the purpose, "What part of Georgia did you say that General Rieppe
came from?" the severe lady responded:--

"I do not think that I mentioned him at all."

"Georgia?" said Mrs. Gregory St. Michael. "I never heard that they came from Georgia."

And this revived my hopes. But the severe lady at once remarked to her:--

"I have received a most agreeable letter from my sister in Paris."

This stopped Mrs. Gregory St. Michael, and dashed my hopes to earth.

The severe lady continued to me:--

"My sister writes of witnessing a performance of the Lohengrin. Can you tell me if it is a
composition of merit?"

I assured her that it was a composition of the highest merit.

"It is many years since I have heard an opera," she pursued. "In my day the works of the Italians
were much applauded. But I doubt if Mozart will be surpassed. I hope you admire the Nozze?"

You will not need me to tell you that I came out of Mrs. Gregory St. Michael's house little
wiser than I went in. My experience did not lead me to abandon all hope. I paid other visits
to other ladies; but these answered my inquiries in much the same sort of way as had the lady
who admired Mozart. They spoke delightfully of travel, books, people, and of the colonial renown
of Kings Port and its leading families; but it is scarce an exaggeration to say that Mozart
was as near the cake, the wedding, or the steel wasp as I came with any of them. By patience,
however, and mostly at our boarding-house table, I gathered a certain knowledge, though small
in amount.

If the health of John Mayrant's mother, I learned, had allowed that lady to bring him up Herself,
many follies might have been saved the youth. His aunt, Miss Eliza St. Michael, though a pattern
of good intentions, was not always a pattern of wisdom. Moreover, how should a spinster bring
up a boy fitly?

Of the Rieppes, father and daughter, I also learned a little more. They did not (most people
believed) come from Georgia. Natchez and Mobile seemed to divide the responsibility of giving
them to the world. It was quite certain the General had run away from Chattanooga. Nobody disputed
this, or offered any other battle as the authentic one. Of late the Rieppes were seldom to
be seen in Kings Port. Their house (if it had ever been their own property, which I heard hotly
argued both ways) had been sold more than two years ago, and their recent brief sojourns in
the town were generally beneath the roof of hospitable friends--people by the name of Cornerly,
"whom we do not know," as I was carefully informed by more than one member of the St. Michael
family. The girl had disturbed a number of mothers whose sons were prone to slip out of the
strict hereditary fold in directions where beauty or champagne was to be found; and the Cornerlys
dined late, and had champagne. Miss Hortense had "splurged it" a good deal here, and the measure
of her success with the male youth was the measure of her condemnation by their female elders.

Such were the facts which I gathered from women and from the few men whom I saw in Kings Port.
This town seemed to me almost as empty of men as if the Pied Piper had passed through here
and lured them magically away to some distant country. It was on the happy day that saw Miss
Eliza La Heu again providing me with sandwiches and chocolate that my knowledge of the wedding
and the bride and groom began really to take some steps forward.

It was not I who, at my sequestered lunch at the Woman's Exchange, began the conversation the
next time. That confection, "Lady Baltimore," about which I was not to worry myself, had, as
they say, "broken the ice" between the girl behind the counter and myself.

"He has put it off!" This, without any preliminaries, was her direct and stimulating news.

I never was more grateful for the solitude of the Exchange, where I had, before this, noted
and blessed an absence of lunch customers as prevailing as the trade winds; the people I saw
there came to talk, not to purchase. Well, I was certainly henceforth coming for both!

I eagerly plunged in with the obvious question:--

"Indefinitely?"

"Oh, no! Only Wednesday week."

"But will it keep?"

My ignorance diverted her. "Lady Baltimore? Why, the idea!" And she laughed at me from the
immense distance that the South is from the North.

"Then he'll have to pay for two?"

"Oh, no! I wasn't going to make it till Tuesday.

"I didn't suppose that kind of thing would keep," I muttered rather vaguely.

Her young spirits bubbled over. "Which kind of thing? The wedding--or the cake?"

This produced a moment of laughter on the part of us both; we giggled joyously together amid
the silence and wares for sale, the painted cups, the embroidered souvenirs, the new food,
and the old family "pieces."

So this delightful girl was a verbal skirmisher! Now nothing is more to my liking than the
verbal skirmish, and therefore I began one immediately. "I see you quite know," was the first
light shot that I hazarded.

Her retort to this was merely a very bland and inquiring stare.

I now aimed a trifle nearer the mark. "About him--her--it! Since you practically live in the
Exchange, how can you exactly help yourself?"

Her laughter came back. "It's all, you know, so much later than 1812."

"Later! Why, a lot of it is to happen yet!"

She leaned over the counter. "Tell me what you know about it," she said with caressing insinuation.

"Oh, well--but probably they mean to have your education progress chronologically."

"I think I can pick it up anywhere. We had to at the plantation."

It was from my table in the distant dim back of the room, where things stood lumpily under
mosquito netting, that I told her my history. She made me go there to my lunch. She seemed
to desire that our talk over the counter should not longer continue. And so, back there, over
my chocolate and sandwiches, I brought out my gleaned and arranged knowledge which rang out
across the distance, comically, like a lecture. She, at her counter, now and then busy with
her ledger, received it with the attentive solemnity of a lecture. The ledger might have been
notes that she was dutifully and improvingly taking. After I had finished she wrote on for
a little while in silence. The curly white dog rose into sight, looked amiably and vaguely
about, stretched himself, and sank to sleep again out of sight.

"That's all?" she asked abruptly.

"So far," I answered.

"And what do you think of such a young man?" she inquired.

"I know what I think of such a young woman."

She was still pensive. "Yes, yes, but then that is so simple."

I had a short laugh. "Oh, if you come to the simplicity!"

She nodded, seeming to be doing sums with her pencil.

"Men are always simple--when they're in love."

I assented. "And women--you'll agree?--are always simple when they're not!"

She finished her sums. "Well, I think he's foolish!" she frankly stated. "Didn't Aunt Josephine
think so, too?"

"Aunt Josephine?"

"Miss Josephine St. Michael--my greet-aunt--the lady who embroidered. She brought me here from
the plantation."

"No, she wouldn't talk about it. But don't you think it is your turn now?"

"I've taken my turn!"

"Oh, not much. To say you think he's foolish isn't much. You've seen him since?"

"Seen him? Since when?"

"Here. Since the postponement. I take it he came himself about it."

"Yes, he came. You don't suppose we discussed the reasons, do you?"

"My dear young lady, I suppose nothing, except that you certainly must have seen how he looked
(he can blush, you know, handsomely), and that you may have some knowledge or some guess--"

"Some guess why it's not to be until Wednesday week? Of course he said why. Her poor, dear
father, the General, isn't very well."

"That, indeed, must be an anxiety for Johnny," I remarked.

This led her to indulge in some more merriment. "But he does," she then said, "seem anxious
about something."

"Ah," I exclaimed. "Then you admit it, too!"

She resorted again to the bland, inquiring stare.

"What he won't admit," I explained, "even to his intimate Aunt, because he's so honorable."

"He certainly is simple," she commented, in soft and pensive tones.

"Isn't there some one," I asked, "who could--not too directly, of course--suggest that to him?"

"I think I prefer men to be simple," she returned somewhat quickly.

"Especially when they're in love," I reminded her somewhat slowly.

"Do you want some Lady Baltimore to-day?" she inquired in the official Exchange tone.

I rose obediently. "You're quite right, I should have gone back to the battle of Cowpens long
ago, and I'll just say this--since you asked me what I thought of him--that if he's descended
from that John Mayrant who fought the Serapes under Paul Jones--"

"He is!" she broke in eagerly.

"Then there's not a name in South Carolina that I'd rather have for my own."

I intended that thrust to strike home, but she turned it off most competently. "Oh, you mustn't
accept us because of our ancestors. That's how we've been accepting ourselves, and only look
where we are in the race!"

"Ah!" I said, as a parting attempt, "don't pretend you're not perfectly satisfied--all of you--as
to where you are in the race!"

"We don't pretend anything!" she flashed back.

V: The Boy of the Cake

One is unthankful, I suppose, to call a day so dreary when one has lunched under the circumstances
that I have attempted to indicate; the bright spot ought to shine over the whole. But you haven't
an idea what a nightmare in the daytime Cowpens was beginning to be.

I had thumbed and scanned hundreds of ancient pages, some of them manuscript; I had sat by
ancient shelves upon hard chairs, I had sneezed with the ancient dust, and I had not put my
finger upon a trace of the right Fanning. I should have given it up, left unexplored the territory
that remained staring at me through the backs of unread volumes, had it not been for my Aunt
Carola. To her I owed constancy and diligence, and so I kept at it; and the hermit hours I
spent at Court and Chancel streets grew worse as I knew better what rarely good company was
ready to receive me. This Kings Port, this little city of oblivion, held, shut in with its
lavender and pressed-rose memories, a handful of people who were like that great society of
the world, the high society of distinguished men and women who exist no more, but who touched
history with a light hand, and left their mark upon it in a host of memoirs and letters that
we read to-day with a starved and home-sick longing in the midst of our sullen welter of democracy.
With its silent houses and gardens, its silent streets, its silent vistas of the blue water
in the sunshine, this beautiful, sad place was winning my heart and making it ache. Nowhere
else in America such charm, such character, such true elegance as here--and nowhere else such
an overwhelming sense of finality!--the doom of a civilization founded upon a crime. And yet,
how much has the ballot done for that race? Or, at least, how much has the ballot done for
the majority of that race? And what way was it to meet this problem with the sudden sweeping
folly of the Fifteenth Amendment? To fling the "door of hope" wide open before those within
had learned the first steps of how to walk sagely through it! Ah, if it comes to blame, who
goes scatheless in this heritage of error? I could have shaped (we all could, you know) a better
scheme for the universe, a plan where we should not flourish at each other's expense, where
the lion should be lying down with the lamb now, where good and evil should not be husband
and wife, indissolubly married by a law of creation.

