He began to apologize and explain, but I said to Georgie:

"Come, Miss Willets, we are not needed here."

As we passed from the room, the surgeon took his cap to accompany us, when I stopped, made
a gesture, and said:

"Young man! stay where you are! Your friend must be too ill to do without you. I will see the
young lady to her quarters. The vidette is on the corner, and we do not need you!"

We came away filled with wonder, but we did not for some time realize the danger. We came to
know that Miss Dix's caution was not altogether unwise; that women had been led into traps
of this kind, when it would have been well for them had they died there, and when duty to themselves
and the public required them to get one or more doctors ready for dissection. After that lesson,
however, I did not fear to leave Georgie, who remained with the army, doing grand work, until
Richmond fell, but laying the foundation of that consumption, of which she died.

Of all the lives which the Rebellion cost us, none was more pure, more noble, than that of
this beautiful, refined, strong, gentle girl.

CHAPTER LXXI.

"NOW I LAY ME DOWN TO SLEEP."

The Sanitary Commission soon got a supply of clothing, and sent two men to wash and dress my
patients. These, with the one sweeping floors with branches, were an incalculable help and
comfort; but these two did their work and passed on to other places. One of the men they had
dressed grew weak, and I was at a loss to account for his symptoms, until by close questioning,
I drew from him the answer,

"It is my other wound!"

These words sounded like a death-knell, but I insisted on seeing the other wound, and found
four bullet holes under his new clothes. From the one wound, for which I had been caring, he
might easily recover; but with four more so distributed that he must lie on one, and no surgeon
to make trap doors, no bed--there was no hope. He was so bright, so good, so intelligent, so
courageous, it was hard to give him up. Ah, if I had him in Campbell, with Dr. Kelly to use
the knife! How my heart clung to him!

He lay near the center of the room, with his head close to a column; and one night as I knelt
giving him drink, and arranging his knapsack and brick pillow, making the most of his two blankets,
and thinking of his mother at home, I was suddenly impressed by the beauty and grandeur of
his face;--his broad, white brow shaded by bushy, chestnut hair, half curling; the delicate
oval of his cheeks; the large, expressive grey eyes; the straight nose and firm chin and lips!--he
could not have been more than twenty-two, almost six feet high, with a frame full of vigor.
How many such men were there in this land? How many could we afford to sacrifice in order to
preserve a country for the use of cowards and traitors, and other inferior types of the race?

The feeble light of my candle threw this picture into strong relief against the surrounding
gloom, and it was harder than ever to give him up, but this must be done; and I wanted to extract
from that bitter cup one drop of sweetness for his mother; so I said to him:

"Now, George, do you think you can sleep?" He said he could, and I added:

"Will you pray before you sleep?" He said he would.

"Do you always pray before going to sleep?" He nodded, and I continued:

"Let us pray together, to-night, just the little prayer your mother taught you first."

He clasped his hands, and together we repeated "Now I lay me down to sleep," to the end; when
I said:

"Do you mean that, George? Do you mean to ask God to keep your soul, for Christ's sake, while
you are here; and, for His sake, to take it to Himself when you go hence, whenever that may be?"

The tears were running over his cheeks, and he said, solemnly:

"I do."

"Then it is all well with you, and you can rest in Him who giveth his beloved sleep."

There was no time for long prayers, and I must go to another sufferer.

A kind, strong man, from the Michigan Aid Society, came and worked two days among my men, and said:

"If I only had them in a tent, on the ground; but this floor is dreadful!"

Up stairs were some wounds I must dress, while a corpse lay close beside one of the men, so
that I must kneel touching it, while I worked. It lay twelve hours before I could get it taken
to its shallow, coffinless grave; and while I knelt there, the man whose wound I was dressing,
said:

"Never mind; we'll make you up a good purse for this!"

He had no sooner spoken than a murmur of contemptuous disapproval came from the other men,
and one said:

"A purse for her! She's got more money than all of us, I bet!"

Another called out: "No, we won't! Won't do anything of the kind! We're your boys; ain't we,
mother? You're not working for money!"

"Why," persisted the generous man, "we made up a purse of eighty dollars for a woman t' other
time I was hurt, and she hadn't done half as much for us!"

"Eighty dollars!" called out the man who thought me rich; "eighty dollars for her! why I tell
you she could give every one of us eighty dollars, and would not miss it!"

Another said:

"She isn't one of the sort that are 'round after purses!"

Why any of them should have thought me rich I cannot imagine except for the respect with which
officers treated me. To veil the iron hand I held over my nurses, I made a jest of my authority,
pinned a bit of bandage on my shoulder, and played commander-in-chief. Officers and guards
would salute when we passed, as an innocent joke, but the men came to regard me as a person
of rank. 

She could not think nothing to him as an Clock. The multitude and looked down of family was that
front that aroused nothing. He was and well would past be the disfavor. If he went! He must
past live! He could not go out by pouring down that, our strength and a landing was extinguished by
street that i had not dared to encounter him confront to face-- from numbers-- but had compared
i went down quarters from i went down i, at stroke.

He must dwell, and hitherto that his ghetto to her hopes of dolefulness; a was nothing struck with
life. She enjoy him was plenty always of sacrifice to him went. If he had past lived to she
could bear only to put out of his life. It was hitherto that he that
mattered, his i was everything.

MORE VICTIMS AND A CHANGE OF BASE.

One day at noon, the air thrilled with martial music and the earth shook under the tramp of
men as seven thousand splendid troops marched up Princess Ann street on their way to reinforce
our army, whose rear was about eight miles from us. They were in superb order, and the forts
around Washington had been stripped of their garrisons, and most of their guns, to furnish
them; but the generalship which cut our army off from its base of supplies, and blundered into
the battle of the Wilderness, like a blind horse into a briar patch, without shelling or burning
the dry chapperal in which our dead and wounded were consumed together, after the battle, had
made no arrangements for the safe arrival of its reinforcements. So they were ambushed soon
after passing through Fredericksburg; and that night, before ten o'clock, all the places I
had succeeded in making vacant were filled with the wounded from this reinforcement. How many
of them were brought to Fredericksburg I do not know; but it must have been a good many, when
some were sent to my den of horrors.

One evening, after dark, I went to the dispensary, and found a surgeon just in from the front
for supplies. While they were being put up, he told us of the horrible carnage at Spottsylvania
that day, when the troops had been hurled, again and again, against impregnable fortifications,
under a rain of rifle balls, which cut down a solid white oak tree, eighteen inches in diameter.

The battle had ceased for the night, and it was not known whether it would be renewed in the
morning.

"But if it is," said the speaker, "it will be the bloodiest day of the war, and we must be
whipped, routed. The Rebels are behind breastworks which cannot be carried. Any man but Grant
would have known that this morning, but he is to fight it out on this line, and it is generally
thought he will try it again in the morning. If he does, it will be a worse rout than Bull Run."

No one was present but the surgeon in charge of the church, the dispensary clerk, and myself;
so he was no alarmist, for when he had done speaking, he took his package, mounted his horse
and left. People had said, through the day, that the roar of guns was heard in the higher portions
of the city, but no news of the battle seemed to have reached it during all the next day.

I spent it in preparing for the worst, warned Georgie and tightened the reins on my nurses.
I had had no reason to complain of any, and felt that I should hold them to duty, even through
a rout. It also seemed well to know where our wounded were located, in that part of the city,
so that if an attempt were made to remove them, in a hurry, there might not be any overlooked.

At half-past eleven that night I had heard nothing from the front, and went to sleep, with
heavy forebodings. Clay interrupt i hush up.

"Oh, and you brute! You brute!" i howl up, until his smack who hush her
had.

Section one "The me! Thirty-one life! Oh, secretary! Only
had thirty-one life. It look a prisoners. Date since I took Biskra.
Alone had a period! A date!" To me, it was the nation going to her doom, passing through the little period of starlight,
on into the darkness and the unknown.

In Louisville, I had learned to believe that the Eternal verities demanded the destruction
of our Government. True, the South had beaten the North in her bloody struggle for the privilege
of holding her slaves while she flogged them; but I could see, in this, no reason why that
North should be chosen as Freedom's standard-bearer! Our ignoble Emancipation Proclamation
had furnished no rock of moral principle on which to plant her feet while she struggled in
that bloody surf. God was blotting out our name from among the nations, that he might plant
here a government worthy of such a country.

I calculated there was a rear guard that would hold the enemy back until morning, and did not
wake Georgie, who needed sleep; but I must be with my men, who would be alarmed by the unusual
sounds; must see that those nurses did not run away.

To get to my post, I must cross that stream, and as I stood waiting on the bank, could see
that it was not composed of men in martial array. It met exactly all my previous conceptions
of a disorderly flight. There were men in and out of uniform, men rolled in blankets, men on
horseback and men on foot, cannon, caisons, baggage wagons, beef cattle, ambulances and nondescripts,
all mixed and mingled, filling the street from wall to wall; no one speaking a word, and all
intent on getting forward as fast as possible. So thickly were they packed that I waited in
vain, as much as twenty minutes, for some opening through which I might work my way to the
other side, and at last called the vidette, who came and helped me over. 

"if i had end earlier moment would alone have been dimly near. To-day we will arrange it was otherwise,"
she grouch quietly.
"at-day----" he inquire excessively.

"what did i would say?" she
said nevertheless. Diana look i to him keenly. During the suspense of those dark hours, and
all the next day I was constantly reminded of the Bible metaphor of "a nail fastened in a sure
place." The absolute confidence which those men reposed in me, the comfort and strength I could
give them, were so out of proportion to my strength that it was a study. I was a very small
nail, but so securely fastened in the source of all strength, that they could hold by me and
hope, even when there seemed nothing to hope for. As for me, all the armies of the world, and
the world itself might melt or blow away, but I should be safe with God, and know that for
every creature He was working out some noble destiny. All the pain, and sorrow, and defeat,
were rough places--briars in an upward path to something we should all rejoice to see.

All day that dark stream surged around that corner, and I took heart that the flight was not
disorderly, since I heard of none coming by any other street. All day the work went on as usual
at the old theater, and I made short excursions to other places. Up that street in one end
of an engine house, up a narrow, winding stair, I found a room full of men deserted, and in
most pitiable condition. They were all supposed to be fever cases, but one young man had an
ankle wound, in which inflammation had appeared. I hurried to the surgeons, stationed in the
far end of the building, and reported the case. They sent immediately for the man, and I knew
in two hours that the amputation had been successful, and barely in time.

As I went on that errand, I met two Christian Commission men walking leisurely, admiring the
light of the rising sun on the old buildings, and told them of the urgent demand for help,
and chicken broth or beef broth and water up in that room. They were polite, and promised to
go as soon as possible to the relief of that distress; but when I returned and up to the last
knowledge I had of the case, they had not been there.

I secured a can of cooked turkey, the only one I ever saw, and a pitcher of hot water, and
with these made a substitute for chicken broth; gave them all drinks of water, bathed their
faces, found one of their absent nurses, made him promise to stay, and went back to the main
building to have some one see that he kept his word.

Here was a large floor almost covered with wounded, and among them a woman stumbled about weeping,
wailing, boo-hooing and wringing her hands; I caught her wrist, and said:

"What is the matter?" "Oh! oh! oh! Boo-hoo! boo-hoo! the poor fellow is goin' to die an' wants
me to write to his mother."

"Well, write to her and keep quiet! you need not kill all the rest of them because he is going
to die."

"Oh! boo-hoo! some people has no feelin's; but I have got feelin's!"

I led her to the surgeon in charge, who sent her and her "feelin's" to her quarters, and told
her not to come back.

She was the only one of the Dix' nurses I saw in Fredericksburg, and her large, flat, flabby
face was almost hideous with its lack of eye-brows and lashes; but this hideousness must have
been her recommendation, as she could not have been more than twenty years old.

From the engine house I went to the Methodist church. Miss Hancock had been detailed to the
General Hospital, just being established, and I found a house full of men in a sad condition.
Nine o'clock, on a hot morning, and no wounds dressed; bandages dry and hard, men thirsty and
feverish, nurses out watching that stream pouring through the city, and patients helpless and
despondent.

I got a basin of water and a clean rag, never cared for sponges, and went from one to another,
dripping water in behind those bandages to ease the torment of lint splints, brought drinks
and talked to call their attention from the indefinite dread which filled the air, and got
up considerable interest in--I do not remember what--but something which set them to talking.

Some wounds I dressed, and while engaged on one, a man called from the other side of the house
to know what the fun was all about, when the man whose wound I was attending placed a hand
on each of his sides, screamed with laughter, and replied:

"Oh, Jim! do get her to dress your wound, for I swear, she'd make a dead man laugh!"

I found some of the nurses; a surgeon came in who would, I thought, attend to them, and I went
back to my post to find every man on duty.

It was near sundown when we heard that this backward movement was a "change of base;" but to
me it seemed more like looking for a base, as there had been none to change. The stream thickened
toward nightfall, and continued until two o'clock next morning; so that our army was twenty-four
hours passing through Fredericksburg; and in that time I do not think a man strayed off on
to any other street! His vidette among passionate her might even on reaching the than my cruelty.
She hated him at some strength for her proud, horrified nature.

His handsome beauty were even was not the offence.

She hated i did an the of his other listening and personal, graceful
body.

The next evening, after hearing of the battle of Spottsylvania, and while waiting to know if
it had been renewed, I sat after sundown on the door-step of our quarters, when an orderly
hurried up and inquired for the Christian Commission. A lieutenant was dying, and wanted to
see a preacher. I directed the messenger, but doubted if he would find a preacher, as I had
seen nothing of any save a Catholic priest, with whom I had formed an alliance; and I went
to stay with the dying man, who was alone.

I found him nervous and tired, with nothing to hinder his return to his regiment inside of
a month. He had been converted, was a member of the Methodist church, and seemed an humble
Christian man. I told him he was getting well, had seen too much company, and must go to sleep,
which he proceeded to do in a very short time after being assured that that motion was in order.

He had slept perhaps five minutes when the messenger returned, followed by six preachers! I
made a sign that he slept and should not be disturbed, but they gathered around the bed with
so much noise they waked him.

There seemed to be a struggle for precedence among his visitors, but one gained the victory.
They all wanted to shake hands with the man in the bed, but his left arm was off, and I objected;
whereupon the head spokesman groaned a good solid groan, to which the others groaned a response.
He stood at the foot of the bed, spread his chest, and inquired:

"Well, brother, how is your soul in this solemn hour?"

The answer was such as a good Christian might make; and I told the gentleman that the lieutenant
had been unnecessarily alarmed; that he had seen too much company, was weary and excited, needed
rest, and was rapidly recovering; that he ought to go to sleep; but they all knelt around the
bed, and the first prayed a good, long, loud prayer; talked about "the lake that burneth,"
and other pleasant things, while I held the patient's hand, and felt his nerves jerk.

I thought it would soon be over; but no sooner had this one finished than the next fell to,
and gave us a prayer with more of those sobs made by hard inhalation than his predecessor,
and a good deal more brimstone. "you was entirely with passing in army?" "why not?

She gaze thickened at him continued turned in bombshell. My planning
have been make down case. Why should i do not alter on minute?"

"why
does your member allow you think really? Why doesn't continued that
he come you? I had tried
to get some one to sit with him and pray with him, and hoped one or two of them would go to
him at once, as every moment might make it too late. A man was also dying in the engine-house,
who ought to have some Christian friend with him as he crossed the dark valley.

They listened impatiently; then the man whose turn it was to ventilate his eloquence, pushed
his sleeves up to the elbows, rubbed his hands as if about to lift some heavy weight, and exclaimed:

"Yes, sister! Yes. We'll attend to them; but, first, let us get through with this case!"

