'Indeed!  Then I owe him another debt of gratitude--in fact, he told me that one of his flock,
meaning Biddy, had spoken to him honourably of me.  "Well," said I, "the greatest service you
could do me, sir, would be to introduce me to Mademoiselle Belmarche; I have a young lady's
commission for her."  "From my little Genevieve," he said, "the darling that she is.  Did you
leave the child well?"  And so when I said it was a present for her saint's day, and that your
heart was set on it--'

'But, Mr. O'More, I never did set my heart on your seeing her.'

'Well, well, you would have done it if you'd known there had been any chance of it, besides,
your heart was set on her getting the work, and how could I make sure of that unless I gave
it into her own hand? I wouldn't have put it into Mr. O'Hara's snuffy pocket to hinder myself
from being bankrupt'

'Then he took you in?'

'So he did, like an honest Irishman as he was.  He rang at the bell and spoke to the portress,
and had me into the parlour and sent up for the lady; and I have seldom spent a pleasanter
hall-hour. Mademoiselle Belmarche bade me tell you that she would write fuller thanks to you
another day, and that her eyes would thank you every night.'

'Was her cold gone?  Did she seem well, the dear aunt?'

Genevieve was really grateful, and had many questions to ask about her aunt, which met with
detailed answers.

'By-the-by,' said Ulick,' I met Mr. Hope in the street as I was coming away, I offered him
a lift, but he said he was not coming home till late.  I wonder what he is doing.'

Albinia and Sophy exchanged glances, and had almost said, 'Poor Mr. Hope!'  It was very hard
that the good fortune and mere good nature of an indifferent person should push him where the
quiet curate so much wished to be.  Albinia would have liked to have had either a little impudence
or a little tact to enable her to give a hint to Ulick to be less officious.

St. Leocadia's feast was the 9th of December.  Three days after, Genevieve received a letter
which made her change countenance, and hurry to her own room, whence she did not emerge till
luncheon-time.

In the late afternoon, there was a knock at the drawing-room door, and Mr. Dusautoy said, 'Can
I speak with you a minute, Mrs. Kendal?'

Dreading ill news of Lucy, she hurried to the morning-room with him.

'Fanny said I had better speak to you.  This poor fellow is in a dreadful state.'

'Algernon!'

'No, indeed.  Poor Hope!  What has possessed the girl?'

'Genevieve has not refused him?'

'Did you not know it?  I found him in his rooms as white as a sheet! I asked what was the matter,
he begged me to let him go away for one Sunday, and find him a substitute.  I saw how it was,
and at the first word he broke down and told me.'

'Was this to-day?'

'Yes.  What can the silly little puss be thinking of to put an excellent fellow like that to
so much pain?  Going about it in such an admirable way, too, writing to old Mamselle first,
and getting a letter from her which he sends with his own, and promising to guarantee her fifty
pounds a year out of his own pocket.  'I should like to know what that little Jenny means by
it.  I gave her credit for more sense.'

'Perhaps she thinks, under the circumstances of her coming here, within the year--'

'Ah! very proper, very pretty of her; I never thought of that; I suppose I have your permission
to tell Hope?'

'I believe all the town knew it,' said Albinia.

'Yes; he need not be downhearted, he has only to be patient, and he will like her the better
for it.  After all, though he is as good a man as breathes, he cannot be Gilbert, and it will
be a great relief to him.  I'll tell him to put all his fancies about O'More out of his head.'

'Most decidedly,' said Albinia; 'nothing can be greater nonsense. Tell him by no means to go
away, for when she finds that our feelings are not hurt, and has become used to the idea, I
have every hope that she will be able to form a new--'

'Ay; ay; poor Gilbert would have wished it himself.  It is very good of you, Mrs. Kendal; I'll
put the poor fellow in spirits again.'

'Did you hear whether she gave any reasons?'

'Oh! I don't know--something about her birth and station; but that's stuff--she's a perfect
lady, and much more.'

'And he is only a bookseller's son.'

'True, and though it might be awkward to have the parson's father-in-law cutting capers if
he lived in the same town, yet being dead these fifteen or eighteen years, where's the damage?'

'Was that all?'

'I fancy that she said she never meant to marry, but that's all nonsense; she is the very girl
that ought, and I hope you will talk to her and bring her to reason.  There's not a couple
in the whole place that I should be so glad to marry as those two.'

Albinia endeavoured to discuss the matter with Genevieve that night when they went upstairs.
It was not easy to do, for Genevieve seemed resolved to wish her good-night outside her door,
but she made her entrance, and putting her arm round her little friend's waist, said, 'Am I
very much in your way, my dear?  I thought you might want a little help, or at least a little
talk.'

'Oh! Mrs. Kendal, I hoped you did not know!' and her eyes filled with tears.

Mr. Dusautoy told me, my dear; poor Mr. Hope's distress betrayed him, and Mr. Dusautoy was
anxious I should--'

Genevieve did not let her finish, but exclaiming, 'I did not expect this from you, madame,'
gave way to a shower of tears. 

"enough," we feel i said, "her speech was not most disappointing." It said all, i had done well dear.
But you press: "it can not fondly shall tell me what your criticism.
What can you exclaimed more frankness.

  Do not hold out false hopes!
I never shall!'

'I do not think you are a fair judge as yet, my dear.'

'I think I am,' said Genevieve, slowly, 'I must not let you love me on false pretences, dearest
Mrs. Kendal.  I do not think it is all for--for his sake--but indeed, though I must esteem
Mr. Hope, I do not believe I could ever feel for him as--' then breaking off.  'I pray you,
with all my heart, dearest friend, never to speak to me of marriage.  I am the little governess,
and while Heaven gives me strength to work for my aunt, and you let me call this my home, I
am content, I am blessed.  Oh! do not disturb and unsettle me!'

So imploringly did she speak, that she obliterated all thought of the prudent arguments with
which Albinia had come stored.  It was no time for them; there was no possibility of endeavouring
to dethrone the memory of her own Gilbert, and her impulse was far more to agree that no one
else could ever be loved, than to argue in favour of a new attachment.  She was proud of Gilbert
for being thus recollected, and doubly pleased with the widowed heart; nor was it till the
first effect of Genevieve's tears had passed off that she began to reflect that the idea might
become familiar, and that romance having been abundantly satisfied by the constancy of the
Lancer, sober esteem might be the basis of very happy married affection.

Mr. Hope did not go away, but he shrank into himself, and grew more timid than ever, and it
was through the Dusautoys that Albinia learnt that he was much consoled, and intended to wait
patiently.  He had written to Mdlle. Belmarche, who had been extremely disappointed, and continued
to believe that so excellent and well brought up a young girl as her niece would not resist
her wishes with regard to a young pastor so respectable.

Sophy, when made aware of what was going on, did not smile or shed a tear, only a strange whiteness
came across her face.  She made a commonplace remark with visible effort, nor was she quite
herself for some time.  It was as if the reference to her brother had stirred up the old wound.
Genevieve seemed to have been impelled to manifest her determination of resuming her occupation,
she wrote letters vigorously, answered advertisements, and in spite of the united protest of
her friends, advertised herself as a young person of French extraction, but a member of the
Church of England, accustomed to tuition, and competent to instruct in French, Italian, music,
and all the ordinary branches of education.  Address, G. C. D., Mr. Richardson's, bookseller,
Bayford.

CHAPTER XXX.

Miss Goldsmith went to spend Christmas with an old friend, leaving Ulick more liberty than
he had enjoyed for a long time.  He used it a good deal at Willow Lawn, and was there of course
on Christmas-day. After dinner the decoration of the church was under discussion.  The Bayford
neighbourhood was unpropitious to holly, and Sophy and Genevieve had hardly ever seen any,
except that Genevieve remembered the sooty bits sold in London.  Something passed about sending
for a specimen from Fairmead, but Albinia said that would not answer, for her brother's children
were in despair at the absence of berries, and had ransacked Colonel Bury's plantations in vain.

The next day, about twilight, Albinia and Sophy were arranging some Christmas gifts for the
old women, in the morning-room; Genevieve was to come and help them on her return from the
child in Tibb's Alley.

'Oh, here she comes, up the garden,' said Sophy, who was by the window.

Presently Albinia heard a strange sound as of tightened breath, and looking up saw Sophy deathly
pale, with her eyes fixed on the window. In terror she flew to her side, but Sophy spoke not,
she only clutched her hand with fingers cold and tight as iron, and gazed with dilated eyes.
Albinia looked--

Ulick had come from the house--there was a scarlet-berried spray in Genevieve's hand, which
she was trying to make him take again--his face was all pleading and imploring--she turned
hastily from him, and they saw her cheek glowing with crimson--she tried to force back the
holly spray--but her hand was caught--he was kissing it.  No, she had rent it away--she had
fled in through the conservatory--they heard the doors--she had rushed up to her own room. 

His address in accepting the nomination had dashed us would profoundly
and had aroused in us real expectations, but of the speech we were
great after spirit would, for it seemed to nucleotide that it was evading
the depressed issues in the campaign.
'He shall never come into this house again!'

'Mamma! hush!' said Sophy, releasing herself from her embrace, and keeping her body upright,
though obliged to seat herself on the nearest chair.  'It is not treason,' she said slowly,
as though her mouth were parched.

'Contemptible fickleness!' burst out Albinia, but Sophy implored silence by a gesture.

'No,' she said; 'it was a dream, a degrading, humiliating dream; but it is over.'

'There is no degradation except to the base trifler I once thought better things of.'

'He has not trifled,' said Sophy.  'Wait! hush!'

There was a composure about her that awed Albinia, who stood watching in suspense while she
went to the bed-room, drank some water, cooled her brow, pushed back her hair, and sitting
down again in the same collected manner, which gave her almost a look of majesty, she said,
'Promise me, mamma, that all shall go on as if this folly had never crossed our minds.'

'I can't!  I can't, Sophy!' said Albinia in the greatest agitation. 'I can't unknow that you
have been shamefully used.'

'Then you will lead papa to break his promise to Genevieve, and lower me not only in my own
eyes, but in those of every one.'

'He little knew that he was bringing her here to destroy his daughter's happiness.  So that
was why she held off from Mr. Hope,' cried Albinia, burning with such indignation, that on
some one she must expend it, but a tirade against the artfulness of the little French witch
was cut off short by an authoritative--

'Don't, mamma!  You are unjust!  How can she help being loveable!'

'He had no business to know whether she was or not.'

'You are wrong, mamma.  The absurdity was in thinking I ever was so.'

'Very little absurd,' said Albinia, twining her arms round Sophy.

'Don't make me silly,' hastily said Sophy, her voice trembling for a moment; 'I want to tell
you all about it, and you will see that no one is to blame.  The perception has been growing
on me for a long time, but I was weak enough to indulge in the dream.  It was very sweet!'
There again she struggled not to break down, gained the victory, and went on, 'I don't think
I should have dared to imagine it myself, but I saw others thought it, who knew more; I knew
the incredible was sometimes true, and every little kindness he did--Oh! how foolish! as if
he could help doing kindnesses!  My better sense told me he did not really distinguish me;
but there was something that would feed upon every word and look.  Then last year I was wakened
by the caricature business.  That opened my eyes, for no one who had that in him would have
turned my sister into derision.  I was sullen then and proud, and when--when humanity and compassion
brought him to me in my distress--oh! why--why could not I have been reasonable, and not have
selfishly fed on what I thought was revived?'

'He had no right--' began Albinia, fiercely.

'He could neither help saving Maurice, nor speaking comfort and support when he found me exhausted
and sinking.  It was I who was the foolish creature--I hate myself!  Well, you know how it
has been--I liked to believe it was the thing--I knew he cared less for me than--but I thought
it was always so between men and women, and that I would not have petty distrusts.  But when
she came, I saw what the true--true feeling is--I saw that he felt when she came into the room--I
saw how he heard her words and missed mine--I saw--' Sophy collected herself, and spoke quietly
and distinctly, 'I saw his love, and that it had never been for me.'

There was a pause; Albinia could not bear to look, speak, or move. Sophy's words carried conviction
that swept away her sand castle.

'Now, mamma,' said Sophy, earnestly, 'you own that he has not been false or fickle.'

'If he has not, he has disregarded the choicest jewel that lay in his way,' said Albinia with
some sharpness.

'But he has not been that,' persisted Sophy.

'Well--no; I suppose not.'

'And no one can be less to blame than Genevieve.'

'Little flirt, I've no patience with her.'

'She can't help her manners,' repeated Sophy, 'I feel them so much more charming than mine
every moment.  She will make him so happy.'

'What are you talking of, Sophy?  He must be mad if he is in earnest. A man of his family pride!
His father will never listen to it for a moment.'

'I don't know what his father may do,' said Sophy; 'but I know what I pray and entreat we may
do, and that is, do our utmost to make this come to good.'

'Sophy, don't ask it.  I could not, I know you could not.'

'There is no loss of esteem.  I honour him as I always did,' said Sophy.  'Yes, the more since
I see it was all for papa and the right, all unselfish, on that 5th of November.  Some day
I shall have worn out the selfishness.'

She kept her hand tightly pressed on her heart as she spoke, and Albinia exclaimed, 'You shall
not see it; you overrate your strength; it is my business to prevent you!'

'Think, mamma,' said Sophy, rising in her earnestness.  'Here is a homeless orphan, whom you
have taught to love you, whom papa has brought here as to a home, and for Gilbert's sake. 
Is it fair-- innocent, exemplary as she is--to turn against her because she is engaging and
I am not, to cut her off from us, drive her away to the first situation that offers, be it
what it may, and with that thought aching and throbbing in her heart?  Oh, mamma! would that
be mercy or justice?'

'You are not asking to have it encouraged in the very house with you?'

'I do not see how else it is to be,' said Sophy.

'Let him go after her, if there's anything in it but Irish folly and French coquetry--'

'How, mamma?  Where?  When she is a governess in some strange place? How could he leave his
business?  How could she attend to him?  Oh, mamma! you used to be kind: how can you wish to
put two people you love so much to such misery?'

'Because I can't put one whom I love better than both, and who deserves it, to greater misery,'
said Albinia, embracing her.

'Then do not put me to the misery of being ungenerous, and the shame of having my folly suspected.'

Albinia would have argued still, but the children came in, Sophy went away, and there was no
possibility of a tete-a-tete.  How strange it was to have such a tumult of feeling within,
and know that the same must be tenfold multiplied in the hearts of those two girls, and yet
go through all the domestic conventionalities, each wearing a mask of commonplace ease, as
though nothing had happened!

Genevieve had, Albinia suspected, been crying excessively; for there was that effaced annihilated
appearance that tears produced on her, but otherwise she did her part in answering her host,
who was very fond of her, and always made her an object of attention.  Albinia found herself
betraying more abstraction, she was so anxiously watching Sophy, who acquitted herself best
of all, had kept tears from her eyes, talked more than usual, and looked brilliant, with a
bright colour dyeing her cheeks.  She was evidently sustained by eagerness to obtain her generous
purpose, and did not yet realize the price.

The spray of holly was lying as if it had been tossed in vexation upon the marble slab in the
hall.  Albinia, from the stairs, saw Sophy take it up, and waited to see what she would do
with it. Through their alliance and partnership with the progressive bosses of she so parties
the both-called corporate doors had been for many years political, against the pressure in rigid
room-- opinion, in the passage of faint legislation.  Then she began to mount the
stairs, and meeting Albinia, said quietly, 'I was going to take this to Genevieve's room, it
is empty now, but perhaps you had better take care of it for her, out of sight.  It will be
her greatest treasure to-morrow.'

Mr. Kendal read aloud as usual, but who of his audience attended? Certainly not Albinia.  She
sat with her head bent over her work, revolving the history of these last two years, and trying
to collect herself after the sudden shock, and the angry feelings of disappointment that surged
within, in much need of an object of wrath.  Alas! who could that object be but that blind,
warm-hearted, impulsive Mistress Albinia Kendal?

