THE SWORD OF WELLERAN AND OTHER STORIES

By Lord Dunsany

Author of "Time and the Gods," etc.

DEDICATED

with deep gratitude to those few, known to me or unknown, who have cared for either of my former
books, "The Gods of Pegana," "Time and the Gods."

The Sword of Welleran

Where the great plain of Tarphet runs up, as the sea in estuaries, among the Cyresian mountains,
there stood long since the city of Merimna well-nigh among the shadows of the crags.  I have
never seen a city in the world so beautiful as Merimna seemed to me when first I dreamed of
it.  It was a marvel of spires and figures of bronze, and marble fountains, and trophies of
fabulous wars, and broad streets given over wholly to the Beautiful.  Right through the centre
of the city there went an avenue fifty strides in width, and along each side of it stood likenesses
in bronze of the Kings of all the countries that the people of Merimna had ever known.  At
the end of that avenue was a colossal chariot with three bronze horses driven by the winged
figure of Fame, and behind her in the chariot the huge form of Welleran, Merimna's ancient
hero, standing with extended sword.  So urgent was the mien and attitude of Fame, and so swift
the pose of the horses, that you had sworn that the chariot was instantly upon you, and that
its dust already veiled the faces of the Kings.  And in the city was a mighty hall wherein
were stored the trophies of Merimna's heroes.  Sculptured it was and domed, the glory of the
art of masons a long while dead, and on the summit of the dome the image of Rollory sat gazing
across the Cyresian mountains towards the wide lands beyond, the lands that knew his sword.
And beside Rollory, like an old nurse, the figure of Victory sat, hammering into a golden wreath
of laurels for his head the crowns of fallen Kings.

Such was Merimna, a city of sculptured Victories and warriors of bronze.  Yet in the time of
which I write the art of war had been forgotten in Merimna, and the people almost slept.  To
and fro and up and down they would walk through the marble streets, gazing at memorials of
the things achieved by their country's swords in the hands of those that long ago had loved
Merimna well.  Almost they slept, and dreamed of Welleran, Soorenard, Mommolek, Rollory, Akanax,
and young Iraine.  Of the lands beyond the mountains that lay all round about them they knew
nothing, save that they were the theatre of the terrible deeds of Welleran, that he had done
with his sword.  Long since these lands had fallen back into the possession of the nations
that had been scourged by Merimna's armies.  Nothing now remained to Merimna's men save their
inviolate city and the glory of the remembrance of their ancient fame.  At night they would
place sentinels far out in the desert, but these always slept at their posts dreaming of Rollory,
and three times every night a guard would march around the city clad in purple, bearing lights
and singing songs of Welleran.  Always the guard went unarmed, but as the sound of their song
went echoing across the plain towards the looming mountains, the desert robbers would hear
the name of Welleran and steal away to their haunts.  Often dawn would come across the plain,
shimmering marvellously upon Merimna's spires, abashing all the stars, and find the guard still
singing songs of Welleran, and would change the colour of their purple robes and pale the lights
they bore.  But the guard would go back leaving the ramparts safe, and one by one the sentinels
in the plain would awake from dreaming of Rollory and shuffle back into the city quite cold.
Then something of the menace would pass away from the faces of the Cyresian mountains, that
from the north and the west and the south lowered upon Merimna, and clear in the morning the
statues and the pillars would arise in the old inviolate city.  You would wonder that an unarmed
guard and sentinels that slept could defend a city that was stored with all the glories of
art, that was rich in gold and bronze, a haughty city that had erst oppressed its neighbours,
whose people had forgotten the art of war.  Now this is the reason that, though all her other
lands had long been taken from her, Merimna's city was safe.  A strange thing was believed
or feared by the fierce tribes beyond the mountains, and it was credited among them that at
certain stations round Merimna's ramparts there still rode Welleran, Soorenard, Mommolek, Rollory,
Akanax, and young Iraine.  Yet it was close on a hundred years since Iraine, the youngest of
Merimna's heroes, fought his last battle with the tribes.

Sometimes indeed there arose among the tribes young men who doubted and said: 'How may a man
for ever escape death?'

But graver men answered them: 'Hear us, ye whose wisdom has discerned so much, and discern
for us how a man may escape death when two score horsemen assail him with their swords, all
of them sworn to kill him, and all of them sworn upon their country's gods; as often Welleran
hath.  Or discern for us how two men alone may enter a walled city by night, and bring away
from it that city's king, as did Soorenard and Mommolek.  Surely men that have escaped so many
swords and so many sleety arrows shall escape the years and Time.'

And the young men were humbled and became silent.  Still, the suspicion grew.  And often when
the sun set on the Cyresian mountains, men in Merimna discerned the forms of savage tribesmen
black against the light, peering towards the city.

All knew in Merimna that the figures round the ramparts were only statues of stone, yet even
there a hope lingered among a few that some day their old heroes would come again, for certainly
none had ever seen them die.  Now it had been the wont of these six warriors of old, as each
received his last wound and knew it to be mortal, to ride away to a certain deep ravine and
cast his body in, as somewhere I have read great elephants do, hiding their bones away from
lesser beasts.  It was a ravine steep and narrow even at the ends, a great cleft into which
no man could come by any path. I am going to get along with those poor things .... What will become
of them without me!

"

Soon came to the other house, where he so eagerly awaited. Was on the street Moon, good-looking
building, which housed the main to an aristocrat, more above low-income families, and a swarm
of poor roof. Torquemada down the hall dark looking for a door.

The numbers they were useless, because not seen.

Luck Isidora was that he felt the steps and opened.

"Ah! men living word. Spend, spend. "

D. found himself Francisco within a room whose sloping roof touched the floor for the contrary
to the door above, a ventanón with some of their windows broken, covered with rags and papers,
the floor, tile, covered in parts of pieces of carpet, with a trunk side open, two chairs,
a portable stove with fire, to another, a bed, on which, among blankets and different clothes,
half-dressed and half warm, lay a man about thirty years old, handsome, pointed beard, big eyes,
beautiful face, gaunt cheekbones and slightly ON; in temples green
depression and transparent as ears wax devotees who are hung on the
altar.

Torquemada looked at him without answering the greeting and I thought thus: "The poor are more consumptive
than Traviata. Too bad boy!

As well as painter and bad head ... Could have much money! ".

- You see, D. Francisco, how I am ... this catarrazo I do not want
to leave.

Sit .... How much I appreciate your kindness!

- Do not thank me .... Well, no more missing.

Is not God commands us to dress the sick, give drink to the sad, bare visit? ... Ay! blunderbuss
everything. What a head! ... Said to alleviate the misery that we are soft-hearted men ...
yes, sir. "

Looked at the walls of dormers, covered largely by numerous studies of landscapes, some with the
heavens, nailed to the wall or leaning against it.

"Beautiful things are still around.

- For release constipated, I shall take the field - said the patient, his eyes lit by fever .--
I have an idea, what an idea! ... I think I'll get good eight to ten days if you me succor, D.
Francisco, and then to the field, the field ....

- The cemetery is where you go prontito - Torquemada thought, and
then aloud: - Yes, that is a matter of eight or ten days ... nothing
more .... Then you come out there ... in a car .... Do you know that
the attic is Fresquecito?

... Caramba! Let me wrapped in the cloak.

- Then you will be amazed - he said .-- Here the patient sitting up
because I have something better. The last days we spent in the studio
... I tell them that you Isidora ... I was terrible; like we were
scared, and ... "

We came so strong fit of coughing, which seemed
to be drowning. Isidora came to incorporating lifting pillows. His
eyes seemed unhappy to be jumped, their lungs waste Men swarmed like
bellows laboriously broken they can not expel or suck air, twitched
fingers, leaving the end prostrate and lifeless. Isidora he wiped
sweat from his forehead put in order the clothes from both sides of
the narrow bed he fell, and gave him a soothing drink.

"But what
I took so awful astonishment exclaimed the artist !...-- recover access.

-
Speak as little as possible - Isidora advised.

- I shall take it
to D. Francisco: you will see how we managed.  And he went down to the ramparts to hear the purple guard
go by singing of Welleran.  And the purple guard came by with lights, all singing in the stillness,
and dark shapes out in the desert turned and fled.  And Rold went back again to his mother's
house with a great yearning towards the name of Welleran, such as men feel for very holy things.

And in time Rold grew to know the pathway all round the ramparts, and the six equestrian statues
that were there guarding Merimna still.  These statues were not like other statues, they were
so cunningly wrought of many-coloured marbles that none might be quite sure until very close
that they were not living men.  There was a horse of dappled marble, the horse of Akanax. 
The horse of Rollory was of alabaster, pure white, his armour was wrought out of a stone that
shone, and his horseman's cloak was made of a blue stone, very precious.  He looked northwards.

But the marble horse of Welleran was pure black, and there sat Welleran upon him looking solemnly
westwards.  His horse it was whose cold neck Rold most loved to stroke, and it was Welleran
whom the watchers at sunset on the mountains the most clearly saw as they peered towards the
city.  And Rold loved the red nostrils of the great black horse and his rider's jasper cloak.

Now beyond the Cyresians the suspicion grew that Merimna's heroes were dead, and a plan was
devised that a man should go by night and come close to the figures upon the ramparts and see
whether they were Welleran, Soorenard, Mommolek, Rollory, Akanax, and young Iraine.  And all
were agreed upon the plan, and many names were mentioned of those who should go, and the plan
matured for many years.  It was during these years that watchers clustered often at sunset
upon the mountains but came no nearer.  Finally, a better plan was made, and it was decided
that two men who had been by chance condemned to death should be given a pardon if they went
down into the plain by night and discovered whether or not Merimna's heroes lived.  At first
the two prisoners dared not go, but after a while one of them, Seejar, said to his companion,
Sajar-Ho: 'See now, when the King's axeman smites a man upon the neck that man dies.'

And the other said that this was so.  Then said Seejar: 'And even though Welleran smite a man
with his sword no more befalleth him than death.'

Then Sajar-Ho thought for a while.  Presently he said: 'Yet the eye of the King's axeman might
err at the moment of his stroke or his arm fail him, and the eye of Welleran hath never erred
nor his arm failed.  It were better to bide here.'

Then said Seejar: 'Maybe that Welleran is dead and that some other holds his place upon the
ramparts, or even a statue of stone.'

But Sajar-Ho made answer: 'How can Welleran be dead when he even escaped from two score horsemen
with swords that were sworn to slay him, and all sworn upon our country's gods?'

And Seejar said: 'This story his father told my grandfather concerning Welleran.  On the day
that the fight was lost on the plains of Kurlistan he saw a dying horse near to the river,
and the horse looked piteously towards the water but could not reach it. And the father of
my grandfather saw Welleran go down to the river's brink and bring water from it with his own
hand and give it to the horse.  Now we are in as sore a plight as was that horse, and as near
to death; it may be that Welleran will pity us, while the King's axeman cannot because of the
commands of the King.'

Then said Sajar-Ho: 'Thou wast ever a cunning arguer.  Thou broughtest us into this trouble
with thy cunning and thy devices, we will see if thou canst bring us out of it.  We will go.'

So news was brought to the King that the two prisoners would go down to Merimna.

That evening the watchers led them to the mountain's edge, and Seejar and Sajar-Ho went down
towards the plain by the way of a deep ravine, and the watchers watched them go.  Presently
their figures were wholly hid in the dusk.  Then night came up, huge and holy, out of waste
marshes to the eastwards and low lands and the sea; and the angels that watched over all men
through the day closed their great eyes and slept, and the angels that watched over all men
through the night awoke and ruffled their deep blue feathers and stood up and watched.  But
the plain became a thing of mystery filled with fears. So the two spies went down the deep
ravine, and coming to the plain sped stealthily across it.  Soon they came to the line of sentinels
asleep upon the sand, and one stirred in his sleep calling on Rollory, and a great dread seized
upon the spies and they whispered 'Rollory lives,' but they remembered the King's axeman and
went on. And next they came to the great bronze statue of Fear, carved by some sculptor of
the old glorious years in the attitude of flight towards the mountains, calling to her children
as she fled.  And the children of Fear were carved in the likeness of the armies of all the
trans-Cyresian tribes with their backs towards Merimna, flocking after Fear.  And from where
he sat on his horse behind the ramparts the sword of Welleran was stretched out over their
heads as ever it was wont.  And the two spies kneeled down in the sand and kissed the huge
bronze foot of the statue of Fear, saying: 'O Fear, Fear.'  And as they knelt they saw lights
far off along the ramparts coming nearer and nearer, and heard men singing of Welleran.  And
the purple guard came nearer and went by with their lights, and passed on into the distance
round the ramparts still singing of Welleran. And all the while the two spies clung to the
foot of the statue, muttering: 'O Fear, Fear.'  But when they could hear the name of Welleran
no more they arose and came to the ramparts and climbed over them and came at once upon the
figure of Welleran, and they bowed low to the ground, and Seejar said: 'O Welleran, we came
to see whether thou didst yet live.'  And for a long while they waited with their faces to
the earth.  At last Seejar looked up towards Welleran's terrible sword, and it was still stretched
out pointing to the carved armies that followed after Fear.  And Seejar bowed to the ground
again and touched the horse's hoof, and it seemed cold to him.  And he moved his hand higher
and touched the leg of the horse, and it seemed quite cold.  At last he touched Welleran's
foot, and the armour on it seemed hard and stiff.  Then as Welleran moved not and spake not,
Seejar climbed up at last and touched his hand, the terrible hand of Welleran, and it was marble.
Then Seejar laughed aloud, and he and Sajar-Ho sped down the empty pathway and found Rollory,
and he was marble too.  Then they climbed down over the ramparts and went back across the plain,
walking contemptuously past the figure of Fear, and heard the guard returning round the ramparts
for the third time, singing of Welleran; and Seejar said: 'Ay, you may sing of Welleran, but
Welleran is dead and a doom is on your city.'

And they passed on and found the sentinel still restless in the night and calling on Rollory. Be
discerned very soon the stain on the stony gray-white background and foams Snow, ten minutes
later drew perfectly the mouth of the cave, and have a little later, something still was not
entirely within their jaws open and disjointed; fifty paces more, and even the least subtle of view met
in what seemed crust of that huge throat and sniffing dogs and the caravan, to pepazo in body
and soul. There was a piece of raw as well as a Japanese idol nestled in his niche, with arms
akimbo, the very red cheeks, mouth from ear to ear and eyes smiling, looking to reach their neighbors,
so calm and carefree as if he had said him to come to that place and time they arrived. For this
attitude irrational, was the greeting that he addressed the newcomers, who could no longer with
snowshoeing or with their own bodies: a storm of insults and nicknames, and even barking dogs.

-
Why do not you tiempu golvistes to animal, but animal? - He asked one.

Pepazo To which he replied instantly:

- Because I had empeñau in
tackling the mares, and as pa columbralas nievi served me well dimpués
night fell ... pull, pull, pull, Eyas parriba behind, turns here and
saves acuyá ...

- And where are these beasts to this? - Asked the
priest.

- Sábelu God - pepazo saddened answered the question -.

Al ayegar me to this gem, tresponierum Cumbria Eyas the other as
if the demontris yevaran ... and a galgu echil ... Squeezed blizzard,
thickening the nievi had to walk to Tablanca Muchu, had about this
Cuevona, and here I am so guapamenti mayor.

- And you've been able
to sleep? - I questioned the doctor.

- As he had no other thing ...--
JACER admired mozallón answered the question.

- But remember a damn
thing - insisted Neluco - the fright you gave to your family and all
the people ...

He shrugged his shoulders questioned, as it then fell
for the first time.

The notice, said Don Sabas decomposing a bit:

- And if we had all
been so kestrels like you, what would become of you, if not today,
tomorrow, when you hunger and cold rush?

Another response shrug, as if no such signal had crossed the core
idea of ​​pepazo.

Finally, there was this man into channel ... not much time to lose so they went outsiders in
the Cuevona, work very easy, because it had already reached the half
a yard of snow mouth, rested and ate all by the voracity of pepazo
line, without which provisions have not attained to himself, and as
the sky was blackened bad part, after a little rest they all left
the cave ready against the march, and undertook a good walk down the
hill.

  For thee we left the earth, its kingdoms
and little flowers, for thee we have come away for awhile from Paradise.

'It is very difficult to draw away from the face of God--it is like a warm fire, it is like
dear sleep, it is like a great anthem, yet there is a stillness all about it, a stillness full
of lights.

'We have left Paradise for awhile for thee, Merimna.

'Many women have we loved, Merimna, but only one city.

'Behold now all the people dream, all our loved people.  How beautiful are dreams!  In dreams
the dead may live, even the long dead and the very silent.  Thy lights are all sunk low, they
have all gone out, no sound is in thy streets.  Hush!  Thou art like a maiden that shutteth
up her eyes and is asleep, that draweth her breath softly and is quite still, being at ease
and untroubled.

'Behold now the battlements, the old battlements.  Do men defend them still as we defended
them?  They are worn a little, the battlements,' and drifting nearer they peered anxiously.
'It is not by the hand of man that they are worn, our battlements.  Only the years have done
it and indomitable Time.  Thy battlements are like the girdle of a maiden, a girdle that is
round about her.  See now the dew upon them, they are like a jewelled girdle.

'Thou art in great danger, Merimna, because thou art so beautiful. Must thou perish tonight
because we no more defend thee, because we cry out and none hear us, as the bruised lilies
cry out and none have known their voices?'

Thus spake those strong-voiced, battle-ordering captains, calling to their dear city, and their
voices came no louder than the whispers of little bats that drift across the twilight in the
evening.  Then the purple guard came near, going round the ramparts for the first time in the
night, and the old warriors called to them, 'Merimna is in danger! Already her enemies gather
in the darkness.'  But their voices were never heard because they were only wandering ghosts.
And the guard went by and passed unheeding away, still singing of Welleran.

Then said Welleran to his comrades: 'Our hands can hold swords no more, our voices cannot be
heard, we are stalwart men no longer.  We are but dreams, let us go among dreams.  Go all of
you, and thou too, young Iraine, and trouble the dreams of all the men that sleep, and urge
them to take the old swords of their grandsires that hang upon the walls, and to gather at
the mouth of the ravine; and I will find a leader and make him take my sword.'

Then they passed up over the ramparts and into their dear city.  And the wind blew about, this
way and that, as he went, the soul of Welleran who had upon his day withstood the charges of
tempestuous armies.  And the souls of his comrades, and with them young Iraine, passed up into
the city and troubled the dreams of every man who slept, and to every man the souls said in
their dreams: 'It is hot and still in the city.  Go out now into the desert, into the cool
under the mountains, but take with thee the old sword that hangs upon the wall for fear of
the desert robbers.'

And the god of that city sent up a fever over it, and the fever brooded over it and the streets
were hot; and all that slept awoke from dreaming that it would be cool and pleasant where the
breezes came down the ravine out of the mountains; and they took the old swords that their
grandsires had, according to their dreams, for fear of the desert robbers.  And in and out
of dreams passed the souls of Welleran's comrades, and with them young Iraine, in great haste
as the night wore on; and one by one they troubled the dreams of all Merimna's men and caused
them to arise and go out armed, all save the purple guard who, heedless of danger, sang of
Welleran still, for waking men cannot hear the souls of the dead.

But Welleran drifted over the roofs of the city till he came to the form of Rold lying fast
asleep.  Now Rold was grown strong and was eighteen years of age, and he was fair of hair and
tall like Welleran, and the soul of Welleran hovered over him and went into his dreams as a
butterfly flits through trellis-work into a garden of flowers, and the soul of Welleran said
to Rold in his dreams: 'Thou wouldst go and see again the sword of Welleran, the great curved
sword of Welleran.  Thou wouldst go and look at it in the night with the moonlight shining
upon it.'

And the longing of Rold in his dreams to see the sword caused him to walk still sleeping from
his mother's house to the hall wherein were the trophies of the heroes.  And the soul of Welleran
urging the dreams of Rold caused him to pause before the great red cloak, and there the soul
said among the dreams: 'Thou art cold in the night; fling now a cloak around thee.'

And Rold drew round about him the huge red cloak of Welleran.  Then Rold's dreams took him
to the sword, and the soul said to the dreams: 'Thou hast a longing to hold the sword of Welleran:
take up the sword in thy hand.'

But Rold said: 'What should a man do with the sword of Welleran?'

And the soul of the old captain said to the dreams: 'It is a good sword to hold: take up the
sword of Welleran.'

And Rold, still sleeping and speaking aloud, said: 'It is not lawful; none may touch the sword.'

And Rold turned to go.  Then a great and terrible cry arose in the soul of Welleran, all the
more bitter for that he could not utter it, and it went round and round his soul finding no
utterance, like a cry evoked long since by some murderous deed in some old haunted chamber
that whispers through the ages heard by none.

And the soul of Welleran cried out to the dreams of Rold: 'Thy knees are tied!  Thou art fallen
in a marsh!  Then the soul of the warrior wailed among Rold's dreams, as Rold stood before
the sword.

'Welleran is crying for his sword, his wonderful curved sword.  Poor Welleran, that once fought
for Merimna, is crying for his sword in the night.  Thou wouldst not keep Welleran without
his beautiful sword when he is dead and cannot come for it, poor Welleran who fought for Merimna.'

And Rold broke the glass casket with his hand and took the sword, the great curved sword of
Welleran; and the soul of the warrior said among Rold's dreams: 'Welleran is waiting in the
deep ravine that runs into the mountains, crying for his sword.'

And Rold went down through the city and climbed over the ramparts, and walked with his eyes
wide open but still sleeping over the desert to the mountains.

Already a great multitude of Merimna's citizens were gathered in the desert before the deep
ravine with old swords in their hands, and Rold passed through them as he slept holding the
sword of Welleran, and the people cried in amaze to one another as he passed: 'Rold hath the
sword of Welleran!'

And Rold came to the mouth of the ravine, and there the voices of the people woke him.  And
Rold knew nothing that he had done in his sleep, and looked in amazement at the sword in his
hand and said: 'What art thou, thou beautiful thing?  Lights shimmer in thee, thou art restless.
It is the sword of Welleran, the curved sword of Welleran!'

And Rold kissed the hilt of it, and it was salt upon his lips with the battle-sweat of Welleran.
And Rold said: 'What should a man do with the sword of Welleran?'

And all the people wondered at Rold as he sat there with the sword in his hand muttering, 'What
should a man do with the sword of Welleran?'

Presently there came to the ears of Rold the noise of a jingling up in the ravine, and all
the people, the people that knew naught of war, heard the jingling coming nearer in the night;
for the four armies were moving on Merimna and not yet expecting an enemy.  And Rold gripped
upon the hilt of the great curved sword, and the sword seemed to lift a little.  And a new
thought came into the hearts of Merimna's people as they gripped their grandsires' swords. The mountain that occupies the center be confused with a piece
of the Pyrenees, and its beautiful houses, smaller than the figures, and trees with figurative
evónimus twigs, leaves behind the very nature.

The plain is where the most beautiful and most characteristic figures, the laundresses who washed
in the stream, the paver and smugglers driving their herds, a leading civil guard two rogues
prisoners, knights riding in luxurious camel barouches next to a King Magician and Parrot the
blind playing guitar in a huddle where the shepherds browse have become the portal. For medium to
medium, a tram passes him just what the neighborhood of Salamanca, and as you have two rails
and wheels, every moment you are running from east to west to the
astonishment of the Black King, do not know what this devilish machine.

In

front of the Portal is a lovely square, whose center is occupied by a flask of fish and not
far from where she sells a boy's pick, and dance gently two nice. The old selling fritters and
chestnut on the corner are the funniest parts of this wonderful village of mud, and preferably by
themselves attract the eyes of the children crowd. Above all, this little boy in a tattered hand
has a lottery ticket, and the another robs the chestnuts out of the basket nicely to Aunt
Lambrijas ago cackle them all.

In short, the birth number one in Madrid is that of the house, one of the main and collected in
their classrooms to children nicest and most thoughtful of twenty streets around.

VIII

Well what about the tree? Consists of branches of oak and cedar. The solicitous friend of the house
has made with great difficulty, he states that he never left his hands so complete and perfect
work. You can not have outstanding gifts of their leaves. Are under the assumption of a little
boy was present, in greater number than the sands of the sea. Sweets wrapped in paper shells Curly,
mandarins, who are infants oranges, chestnuts tucked into blankets silver paper, boxes containing
confectionery homeopathic globules, various figurines on foot and on horseback, as God hath
created to be perfected what then mayonnaise or sell it Scropp has been put there by a hand
so generous and skillful.

Lit that tree footlights life in such abundance that, as a guest ratio of four years there
are more lights than stars in the sky.

The joy of children swarm can not be compared to any human feeling: the joy ineffable heavenly
choirs in the presence of the Supreme Good and Beauty Addition. Superabundance satisfaction
almost makes them wise, and are as perplexed in seraphic rapture
with all the soul in his eyes, savoring in advance what they eat,
and swimming, as blessed angels, pure ether of things sweet and delicious,
sweet-smelling flowers and cinnamon, in the uncreated essence of the
game and treat.

IX

But suddenly felt a rumor that came from them. Everyone looked at the ceiling, and as did not
see anything, he looked from one to the other, laughing.

Could hear loud murmur of wings brushing against the wall and crashing into the ceiling. If you
were blind, would have believed that all pigeon pigeons of all the universe had gone into the
room. But they saw nothing, absolutely nothing.

Noticed, yes, suddenly, something inexplicable and phenomenal. All of the Nativity figurines
moved, all without noise varied from site. The tram car went up to the top of the mountains,
and the Kings put the legs in the creek. The turkeys were cast without permission in Portal, and
San Jose went all embarrassed, as if to know the origin of such strange confusion. Afterwards,
many figures were lying on the ground. If at first the translations are made no mess, then
put together a racket such that there seemed to walk one hundred thousand plodding hands to mix
it up. It was a miniature universal cataclysm.

The mountain was coming down, lacking its secular foundations, and the creek course ranged, and
casting off channel their Espejillos, horribly flooded the plain,
the houses sank the roof in Sandy, the Portal was shaking as if it
were fought with horrible winds, and as quenched many lights the sun
was clouded and darkened the lights of day and night.

To the amazement that such a phenomenon occurred some little ones
laughed and others cried wildly.

An old superstition said:

"Do not you know who does this disorder? Hácenlo dead children are in heaven, and which allows
Father God, this night, they come to play with the Nativity. "

All this came to an end, and was again flutter away.

Attended many of those present to examine the damage, and a man said:

"It has sunk the table and all figures have been upset."

Began to collect the figures and to put in order. After careful counting and recognize one by one
all the pieces, something was missing.

Searched and researched, but to no avail. It was two figures: the mule and the ox.

X

And close the day, the rioters were way to heaven, happier than a
lark, hopping through those clouds, and there were millions of millions,
all precious, pure, divine, with short white wings that beat faster
than the fastest bird on earth.

The band formed was larger than what they can cover their eyes in space visible and covered the
moon and stars, as if the sky full of clouds.

"A rush, to hurry, young gentlemen, who is going to be day - one said, - and Grandpa is going to fight
if we are late. Births worthless this year .... When one remembers those ...!» times

Celinina went with them, and as for the first time walking in those altitudes, it is reckless
a little.

"Come here - I said one - give me your hand and you will fly right over .... But what have you
got there?

- This - said Celinina pressing against his chest two coarse clay
animals .-- They are pa me, pa me.

- Look, kid, pull those dolls.

Well now it is known that salt of the earth.

Know that although the games have eternal Heaven, always delicious, Grandpa sent us to the
world tonight that wrapped up a bit in the Birth. Have fun up there too tonight, and I think
we sent down to them dizzy with the great noise that we put .... But if Father God let us down
and walk through the houses, is on condition that we not take anything,
and you've striven that.

"

Celinina did not take charge of these powerful reasons, and most pressing
against your chest two animals, repeated:

- Pa me, pa me.

- Look,
dummy, - said the other, - if you ignore that we're going to cause
an upset.

Low in flight, and leave that which is of the earth and the earth
should be.

At one point leave and come back, silly.

I wait in this cloud.

"

Celinina finally relented, and down, gave land to his theft.

XI

So noted that Celinina beautiful body, what the person was visible, in his hands, instead of
flowers, two clay critters. Neither women the veiled, neither the father nor the mother knew
how to explain this, but the pretty girl, so mourned of all, entered the land in their cold little
hands squeezing the Mule and Ox.

December 1876.

FEATHER IN THE WIND

Ó

THE JOURNEY OF LIFE

Poe ....[ 1]

INTRODUCTION

On the matted floor of the yard between an eggshell and a piece of radish, about where they drank
half a bowl of chicken and about two inches of arugula that had been born at the site without
asking anyone's permission, lay a small and very light pen, apparently fall some pigeon neck
neighbor, ten minutes before had stopped stroking female oh condescension! by D. John that was
raging on the rooftops of the neighborhood.

The corral was sad, ugly and lonely. From where the pen was not seen anything but the top of
some brown planted outside the wall, the steeple of the church with its dented auction, after
the manner of old hat, the big stick and a poplar lackluster invalid and almost dying, and the
tiles of the adjacent house, which on stormy days sprinkled with plenty of cried the yard and
garden. The vine, the vine and honeysuckle bush, barely covered between three full extent of
the wall, bristling with broken glass on top, which served as impregnable bulwark against foxes
and little boys.

This reduced the landscape, in addition to the vast and ever-beautiful sky, so splendid day as
imposing and mysterious night.

The pen (why should not we give it life?) Lay, as we, along with several objects rather ignoble,
own the place, and constantly exposed to be trodden by the barbarian plant geese, chickens and
even other little animals but clean and decent had room in a nearby swamp.

I must not say that the pen must be very boring, as if a soul have delicate, air and supple
body, the consequence is that the soul could not live happy described in the corral. By a mysterious
harmony between the elements of that be if the body looked like a ghost of matter, the soul had
been created to fly and soar heights, rising to the longest distance possible on the ground, in
which ever mud should touch the lace of her subtle almost imperceptible
cover.

For this was born certainly, but it, like us men remained predestination an empty word. Was
the poor in the corral, lamenting his fate, staring at the sky, without distraction in the
wind see the whites of her clothes festoons undefiled, and saying in the unknown language of
feathers: "I do not know how annoying stand this life. It's better to die a hundred times. "

Other
equally sad lot said, but at the same moment a gust of wind who put in turmoil all straw and
small objects thrown in the pen, the suspended, Unexpected oh joy! raising it on the ground
more than half a yard.

For short time was fluctuating back and forth, threatening to fall at times and going back others
with large din of the chickens, who saw this white thing was walking through the air such
majesty, went behind her waiting for her in the fall, hoping it was something eating. But the wind
blew more loudly, and with a strong swirling around the campus the pen, drew it out quickly. When
she saw higher than the wall, higher than the house, the chestnut, the height of poplar, trembled
all over with excitement and admiration. Arribita there, the wind swayed, holding no violent
shaking, seemed to sway in visible hammock or in the arms of a loving genius. From there, what
a sight! Down the pen with chickens scratching constantly restless, the garden, the house, the chestnut
trees poplar, how small what once seemed so big! Then, the whole expanse of beautiful Valley
village of houses, trees, flowers, cattle, in the distance the mountains with their slopes covered
with forests, red and blue eminences and peaks encaperuzadas with a whiteness in which our traveler
thought he saw huge piles of feathers above the endless sky, the morning sun making bright colors
throughout the landscape, water scribbling ray of light producing
reflections quivering in the foliage of the elms, and reverberating
in the crops straw scattered here and there patches of poppies.

This itself is called live! Tremendous thing would be to fall back into the corral.

The pen, at the height of his joy, found no better way to express it spinning on its axis,
so that although its members orearan wet and shivering, bathed in the sun fluffy, cupping with
some tiny fringe vanity that your body is composed. The sun shone in between the interstices of one
thousand wonderful fit, and our traveler was seen threads of glass dressed more tenuous than
that spiders tend branch to branch, and covered with diamonds, emeralds and rubies ranging from
light to every move, and so tiny, the grains of sand mountains appear at his side.

Extending the view of the valley, the mountains, the horizon, and
wanting to cross it all to the end, was in the pen work of a moment.

His amazement and joy knew no bounds, and if at first surprise kept at that height, rambling,
without detracting from their status First, after a bit and feeling Serenada on his chest (?) the
fire of enthusiasm, was launched in the immense space, genie arms.

Gone pen, house, village, the tower of the church, as a giant panicked, was walking too large
to miss Zanchetta of view. In the excitement of that giddy flight, the pen sometimes rose so high,
I could barely distinguish objects, others down to almost to the ground, and looked their fleeting
image in the green surface of the puddles. Sometimes going back then, that seemed confused with the clouds
and disappear into the vast ocean of space down sometimes Therefore, it very nearly touched the
ground, and in language unknown to the wind said: "Put me down a little friend, I get dizzy
at these heights, "or" please pick me up, buddy, I'm going to fall
in that quagmire.

"

The wind, compliant vehicle, up and down as desired, always walk, and spent valleys, rivers,
mountains, hills, towns, without stopping. On their journey, the pen never stopped admire what
he saw. The birds spent singing along to it, the butterflies stopped, watching her in amazement,
we fail to understand if it was a living thing or object carried by the wind. When they were
near land and went skimming over brambles and thorny plants, you'd think all bristling barbs
and claws to get it, and fly over a pond, geese returning from the bank's head sideways at her,
and hopefully to see her fall, ran screeching after it: - "Lift me up, buddy," he cried, refusing
to hear these barbarians. "

CANTO FIRST

And rose to the top of the mountain, passing the ridge, and traveled
another valley, and so all the way, never stopping.

Both walked the pen, feeling satisfied their curiosity, swirled, gave a few turns on itself, and
told the genius that drove:

"You know we've run enough? Do not be chosen in place to take a break?
Ay, friend!

Although he wanted to leave the pen to travel the world, you believe that what I like is the quiet
and peaceable life. For a moment I thought that happiness is to fly from here to there, seeing
different things every minute, and receive different impressions. And I'm convinced it is better
to remain quietly in one place a not be as ugly as poultry, live
without fear or danger.

I see there, near the river, large trees, which I think the most beautiful place we found on
our trip. "

Drew near and saw indeed that the shade of those trees was the site most appealing and delicious
than a pen could aspire to spend their days. Fine lawn covered the ground near the river ran
with gentle flow, not so quick to drag and Turning the soil of the green margins, nor so slow
that muddied the waters: easy was to count all the stones from the bottom, but not the multitude
of fish that wander over its transparent glass. The branches of trees, living sifting the sunshine,
kept in warm darkness the small meadow, and from there all the insects
had fled importunate and dirty, and all birds irrelevant and frivolous.

The few things that were there pitch or with a permanent residence, were the most learned and
distinguished of creation: insects dresses gold and decorated with wonderful jewels, birds sang
sentimental and discrete their love in courtly style, and only at certain hours of the morning or
afternoon. It was noon, and all were silent at the top of the branches, entertaining spirit in
abstract meditations.

'Fresh and beautiful place this is! - Said the ruffled feathers of enthusiasm to be there .--
Here I spend my whole life, all, all, I repeat not safely complete
range of purpose.

Wandered beneath the shade of the trees, sliding on the cool grass, when he saw approaching a shepherd,
guiding two dozen sheep with the odd lamb, and a dog that served custody and companionship.
The pastor was concerned, walking, weaving a crown of flowers that brought on the side, and
such was her beauty, grace and elegance, the pen was absorbed.

He sat the girl, and the pen again soaring through the air, spun around his admiring up close
and from afar, and the whiteness of complexion, and expression and brightness eyes and black
hair, and his lips turned on, each and every one of the perfections copy of such creature.

"Here
I have to be a lifetime - the traveler exclaimed in his convoluted language .-- This really
is live. I never tire of looking at it, but live a thousand years. What I have done well to settle
here ... and what a great thing to love! Thank God I've found happiness.

How sweet he spends his time looking at her, now and then and always!

What pleasure equal to that of skim her hair and stroking her forehead
with my flequitos?

What I can be more ambitious than let me slip from his neck to sneak
... I do not know where, or hide in your clothes and meat tickling
estarme there for all eternity?

This drives me crazy ... and indeed I am madly in love. Here and not away from it for a moment,
I spend all life. "

The pen was flying and falling away around the pastor, until he came
to rest gently on his shoulder, and he made a thousand grimaces and
fuss with their fringes.

He saw the girl that object White, who at first tried to be anything
but delicate falling branches of the tree, and took her, squeezed
between his fingers and threw it from him with contemptuous indifference.

A while later called to his flock and left.

Much took our unfortunate traveler return from his swoon. He opened his eyes in vain sought
the object of his tender passion, recognizing the site, shaking his bruised sockets and broken,
and gave the wind its complaints in this way:

"Oh, little wind, get me out of here, for the blessed souls, lift me up, I am dying of sadness.
I want to run again, as I now understand that happiness does not exist in what I thought. Good
silly I was! Love is not only fatigue and pain. Just love that I know tired and what it brings.
We'll fly again, and go where you want, buddy. I really I say that I carry these trees and the river:
I'm already up to the crown of lawns, meadows, streams and birds. Let us make a turn into the world.
Lift me: I go up clouds. That is, the way I like: Lift me up all
you can. Look, there in the distance is reached to see a house that
has to be very large: Do you see how bright the sunlight, as if it
were silver, and next is again and again, many, many houses? No doubt
that is what called a city. That's what I want to see. Thank God I
find what I like. Let's go right there, and let us hills and valleys,
places unfit for this my genius ... Now, now you look closely the
city. In this magnificent palace that we first saw we have to put.
Run, run more, which I do not think we ever.

NOTE:

[1] Sorry oh
reader! was about to commit the irreverence to call this poem.

SECOND
CANTO

Soon found themselves near a palace of marble, so great and
beautiful that even the same mysterious genius, that led to our friend,
he was preoccupied with such magnificence. Revelry could be heard
there as dance or feast, and amazing music. Flags floated on the minarets
and rooftops, and windows reason people looked happy and busy.

"Inside,
my friend - said the pen, - Colemon this balcony is wide open."

They
did so, found inside a large room in which there were even a hundred
people vast sitting around table, full of rich delicacies and adorned
with flowers, all set sovereign art and magnificence. Was equal to
the number of men to women, and if between had those of different
ages, they were all young and beautiful. The servants wore very rich
costumes, and endless harmonious musicians played sonatas on top of
a large rostrum.

The guests were lying on cushions covered in colorful
tapestries adorned them with flowers and dressed so lightly and gracefully,
her beauty could not fail to appear embossed with ornaments so indiscreet.
The laughter, voices and music, impressing the hearing, the aroma
of flowers and the smell snack foods and spirits, injuring the nose;
the liveliness of the eyes, the variety of colors, affecting vision,
produced in that place a fascination that would put the kibosh on
the strength of all the hermits of the Thebaid.

There Mary Jane worked with other girls in a long dreary room, where giants sat pounding wool
into a long thread-like strip with iron, rasping hands.  And all day long they roared as they
sat at their soulless work.  But the work of Mary Jane was not with these, only their roar
was ever in her ears as their clattering iron limbs went to and fro.

Her work was to tend a creature smaller, but infinitely more cunning.

It took the strip of wool that the giants had threshed, and whirled it round and round until
it had twisted it into hard thin thread. Then it would make a clutch with fingers of steel
at the thread that it had gathered, and waddle away about five yards and come back with more.

It had mastered all the subtlety of skilled workers, and had gradually displaced them; one
thing only it could not do, it was unable to pick up the ends if a piece of the thread broke,
in order to tie them together again.  For this a human soul was required, and it was Mary Jane's
business to pick up broken ends; and the moment she placed them together the busy soulless
creature tied them for itself.

All here was ugly; even the green wool as it whirled round and round was neither the green
of the grass nor yet the green of the rushes, but a sorry muddy green that befitted a sullen
city under a murky sky.

When she looked out over the roofs of the town, there too was ugliness; and well the houses
knew it, for with hideous stucco they aped in grotesque mimicry the pillars and temples of
old Greece, pretending to one another to be that which they were not. And emerging from these
houses and going in, and seeing the pretence of paint and stucco year after year until it all
peeled away, the souls of the poor owners of those houses sought to be other souls until they
grew weary of it.

At evening Mary Jane went back to her lodgings.  Only then, after the dark had fallen, could
the soul of Mary Jane perceive any beauty in that city, when the lamps were lit and here and
there a star shone through the smoke.  Then she would have gone abroad and beheld the night,
but this the old woman to whom she was confided would not let her do.  And the days multiplied
themselves by seven and became weeks, and the weeks passed by, and all days were the same.
And all the while the soul of Mary Jane was crying for beautiful things, and found not one,
saving on Sundays, when she went to church, and left it to find the city greyer than before.

One day she decided that it was better to be a wild thing in the lovely marshes, than to have
a soul that cried for beautiful things and found not one.  From that day she determined to
be rid of her soul, so she told her story to one of the factory girls, and said to her:

'The other girls are poorly clad and they do soulless work; surely some of them have no souls
and would take mine.'

But the factory girl said to her: 'All the poor have souls.  It is all they have.'

Then Mary Jane watched the rich whenever she saw them, and vainly sought for some one without
a soul.

One day at the hour when the machines rested and the human beings that tended them rested too,
the wind being at that time from the direction of the marshlands, the soul of Mary Jane lamented
bitterly.  Then, as she stood outside the factory gates, the soul irresistibly compelled her
to sing, and a wild song came from her lips, hymning the marshlands.  And into her song came
crying her yearning for home, and for the sound of the shout of the North Wind, masterful and
proud, with his lovely lady the Snow; and she sang of tales that the rushes murmured to one
another, tales that the teal knew and the watchful heron.  And over the crowded streets her
song went crying away, the song of waste places and of wild free lands, full of wonder and
magic, for she had in her elf-made soul the song of the birds and the roar of the organ in
the marshes.

At this moment Signor Thompsoni, the well-known English tenor, happened to go by with a friend.
They stopped and listened; everyone stopped and listened.

'There has been nothing like this in Europe in my time,' said Signor Thompsoni.

So a change came into the life of Mary Jane.

People were written to, and finally it was arranged that she should take a leading part in
the Covent Garden Opera in a few weeks.

So she went to London to learn.

London and singing lessons were better than the City of the Midlands and those terrible machines.
Yet still Mary Jane was not free to go and live as she liked by the edge of the marshlands,
and she was still determined to be rid of her soul, but could find no one that had not a soul
of their own.

One day she was told that the English people would not listen to her as Miss Rush, and was
asked what more suitable name she would like to be called by.

'I would like to be called Terrible North Wind,' said Mary Jane, 'or Song of the Rushes.'

When she was told that this was impossible and Signorina Maria Russiano was suggested, she
acquiesced at once, as she had acquiesced when they took her away from her curate; she knew
nothing of the ways of humans.

At last the day of the Opera came round, and it was a cold day of the winter.

And Signorina Russiano appeared on the stage before a crowded house.

And Signorina Russiano sang.

And into the song went all the longing of her soul, the soul that could not go to Paradise,
but could only worship God and know the meaning of music, and the longing pervaded that Italian
song as the infinite mystery of the hills is borne along the sound of distant sheep-bells.
Then in the souls that were in that crowded house arose little memories of a great while since
that were quite quite dead, and lived awhile again during that marvellous song.

And a strange chill went into the blood of all that listened, as though they stood on the border
of bleak marshes and the North Wind blew.

And some it moved to sorrow and some to regret, and some to an unearthly joy,--then suddenly
the song went wailing away like the winds of the winter from the marshlands when Spring appears
from the South.

So it ended.  And a great silence fell fog-like over all that house, breaking in upon the end
of a chatty conversation that Cecilia, Countess of Birmingham, was enjoying with a friend.

In the dead hush Signorina Russiano rushed from the stage; she appeared again running among
the audience, and dashed up to Lady Birmingham.

'Take my soul,' she said; 'it is a beautiful soul.  It can worship God, and knows the meaning
of music and can imagine Paradise.  And if you go to the marshlands with it you will see beautiful
things; there is an old town there built of lovely timbers, with ghosts in its streets.'

Lady Birmingham stared.  Everyone was standing up.  'See,' said Signorina Russiano, 'it is
a beautiful soul.'

And she clutched at her left breast a little above the heart, and there was the soul shining
in her hand, with the green and blue lights going round and round and the purple flare in the
midst.

'Take it,' she said, 'and you will love all that is beautiful, and know the four winds, each
one by his name, and the songs of the birds at dawn.  I do not want it, because I am not free.
Put it to your left breast a little above the heart.'

Still everybody was standing up, and Lady Birmingham felt uncomfortable.

'Please offer it to some one else,' she said.

'But they all have souls already,' said Signorina Russiano.

And everybody went on standing up.  And Lady Birmingham took the soul in her hand.

'Perhaps it is lucky,' she said.

She felt that she wanted to pray.

She half-closed her eyes, and said 'Unberufen'. Then she put the soul to her left breast a
little above the heart, and hoped that the people would sit down and the singer go away.

Instantly a heap of clothes collapsed before her.  For a moment, in the shadow among the seats,
those who were born in the dusk hour might have seen a little brown thing leaping free from
the clothes, then it sprang into the bright light of the hall, and became invisible to any
human eye.

It dashed about for a little, then found the door, and presently was in the lamplit streets.

To those that were born in the dusk hour it might have been seen leaping rapidly wherever the
streets ran northwards and eastwards, disappearing from human sight as it passed under the
lamps and appearing again beyond them with a marsh-light over its head.

Once a dog perceived it and gave chase, and was left far behind.

The cats of London, who are all born in the dusk hour, howled fearfully as it went by.

Presently it came to the meaner streets, where the houses are smaller.  Then it went due north-eastwards,
leaping from roof to roof. And so in a few minutes it came to more open spaces, and then to
the desolate lands, where market gardens grow, which are neither town nor country.  Till at
last the good black trees came into view, with their demoniac shapes in the night, and the
grass was cold and wet, and the night-mist floated over it.  And a great white owl came by,
going up and down in the dark.  And at all these things the little Wild Thing rejoiced elvishly.

And it left London far behind it, reddening the sky, and could distinguish no longer its unlovely
roar, but heard again the noises of the night.

And now it would come through a hamlet glowing and comfortable in the night; and now to the
dark, wet, open fields again; and many an owl it overtook as they drifted through the night,
a people friendly to the Elf-folk.  Sometimes it crossed wide rivers, leaping from star to
star; and, choosing its way as it went, to avoid the hard rough roads, came before midnight
to the East Anglian lands.

And it heard there the shout of the North Wind, who was dominant and angry, as he drove southwards
his adventurous geese; while the rushes bent before him chaunting plaintively and low, like
enslaved rowers of some fabulous trireme, bending and swinging under blows of the lash, and
singing all the while a doleful song.

And it felt the good dank air that clothes by night the broad East Anglian lands, and came
again to some old perilous pool where the soft green mosses grew, and there plunged downward
and downward into the dear dark water till it felt the homely ooze once more coming up between
its toes.  Thence, out of the lovely chill that is in the heart of the ooze, it arose renewed
and rejoicing to dance upon the image of the stars.

I chanced to stand that night by the marsh's edge, forgetting in my mind the affairs of men;
and I saw the marsh-fires come leaping up from all the perilous places.  And they came up by
flocks the whole night long to the number of a great multitude, and danced away together over
the marshes.

And I believe that there was a great rejoicing all that night among the kith of the Elf-folk.

The Highwaymen

Tom o' the Roads had ridden his last ride, and was now alone in the night.  From where he was,
a man might see the white recumbent sheep and the black outline of the lonely downs, and the
grey line of the farther and lonelier downs beyond them; or in hollows far below him, out of
the pitiless wind, he might see the grey smoke of hamlets arising from black valleys.  But
all alike was black to the eyes of Tom, and all the sounds were silence in his ears; only his
soul struggled to slip from the iron chains and to pass southwards into Paradise.  And the
wind blew and blew.

For Tom tonight had nought but the wind to ride; they had taken his true black horse on the
day when they took from him the green fields and the sky, men's voices and the laughter of
women, and had left him alone with chains about his neck to swing in the wind for ever. And
the wind blew and blew.

But the soul of Tom o' the Roads was nipped by the cruel chains, and whenever it struggled
to escape it was beaten backwards into the iron collar by the wind that blows from Paradise
from the south. And swinging there by the neck, there fell away old sneers from off his lips,
and scoffs that he had long since scoffed at God fell from his tongue, and there rotted old
bad lusts out of his heart, and from his fingers the stains of deeds that were evil; and they
all fell to the ground and grew there in pallid rings and clusters.  And when these ill things
had all fallen away, Tom's soul was clean again, as his early love had found it, a long while
since in spring; and it swung up there in the wind with the bones of Tom, and with his old
torn coat and rusty chains.

And the wind blew and blew.

And ever and anon the souls of the sepultured, coming from consecrated acres, would go by beating
up wind to Paradise past the Gallows Tree and past the soul of Tom, that might not go free.

Night after night Tom watched the sheep upon the downs with empty hollow sockets, till his
dead hair grew and covered his poor dead face, and hid the shame of it from the sheep.  And
the wind blew and blew.

Sometimes on gusts of the wind came someone's tears, and beat and beat against the iron chains,
but could not rust them through. And the wind blew and blew.

And every evening all the thoughts that Tom had ever uttered came flocking in from doing their
work in the world, the work that may not cease, and sat along the gallows branches and chirrupped
to the soul of Tom, the soul that might not go free.  All the thoughts that he had ever uttered!
And the evil thoughts rebuked the soul that bore them because they might not die.  And all
those that he had uttered the most furtively, chirrupped the loudest and the shrillest in the
branches all the night.

And all the thoughts that Tom had ever thought about himself now pointed at the wet bones and
mocked at the old torn coat.  But the thoughts that he had had of others were the only companions
that his soul had to soothe it in the night as it swung to and fro.  And they twittered to
the soul and cheered the poor dumb thing that could have dreams no more, till there came a
murderous thought and drove them all away.

And the wind blew and blew.

Paul, Archbishop of Alois and Vayence, lay in his white sepulchre of marble, facing full to
the southwards towards Paradise.  And over his tomb was sculptured the Cross of Christ, that
his soul might have repose.  No wind howled here as it howled in lonely tree-tops up upon the
downs, but came with gentle breezes, orchard scented, over the low lands from Paradise from
the southwards, and played about forget-me-nots and grasses in the consecrated land where lay
the Reposeful round the sepulchre of Paul, Archbishop of Alois and Vayence.  Easy it was for
a man's soul to pass from such a sepulchre, and, flitting low over remembered fields, to come
upon the garden lands of Paradise and find eternal ease.

And the wind blew and blew.

In a tavern of foul repute three men were lapping gin.  Their names were Joe and Will and the
gypsy Puglioni; none other names had they, for of whom their fathers were they had no knowledge,
but only dark suspicions.

Sin had caressed and stroked their faces often with its paws, but the face of Puglioni Sin
had kissed all over the mouth and chin. Their food was robbery and their pastime murder.  All
of them had incurred the sorrow of God and the enmity of man.  They sat at a table with a pack
of cards before them, all greasy with the marks of cheating thumbs.  And they whispered to
one another over their gin, but so low that the landlord of the tavern at the other end of
the room could hear only muffled oaths, and knew not by Whom they swore or what they said.

These three were the staunchest friends that ever God had given unto a man.  And he to whom
their friendship had been given had nothing else besides, saving some bones that swung in the
wind and rain, and an old torn coat and iron chains, and a soul that might not go free.

But as the night wore on the three friends left their gin and stole away, and crept down to
that graveyard where rested in his sepulchre Paul, Archbishop of Alois and Vayence.  At the
edge of the graveyard, but outside the consecrated ground, they dug a hasty grave, two digging
while one watched in the wind and rain.  And the worms that crept in the unhallowed ground
wondered and waited.

And the terrible hour of midnight came upon them with its fears, and found them still beside
the place of tombs.  And the three friends trembled at the horror of such an hour in such a
place, and shivered in the wind and drenching rain, but still worked on.  And the wind blew
and blew.

Soon they had finished.  And at once they left the hungry grave with all its worms unfed, and
went away over the wet fields stealthily but in haste, leaving the place of tombs behind them
in the midnight.  And as they went they shivered, and each man as he shivered cursed the rain
aloud.  And so they came to the spot where they had hidden a ladder and a lantern.  There they
held long debate whether they should light the lantern, or whether they should go without it
for fear of the King's men.  But in the end it seemed to them better that they should have
the light of their lantern, and risk being taken by the King's men and hanged, than that they
should come suddenly face to face in the darkness with whatever one might come face to face
with a little after midnight about the Gallows Tree.

On three roads in England whereon it was not the wont of folk to go their ways in safety, travellers
tonight went unmolested.  But the three friends, walking several paces wide of the King's highway,
approached the Gallows Tree, and Will carried the lantern and Joe the ladder, but Puglioni
carried a great sword wherewith to do the work which must be done.  When they came close, they
saw how bad was the case with Tom, for little remained of that fine figure of a man and nothing
at all of his great resolute spirit, only as they came they thought they heard a whimpering
cry like the sound of a thing that was caged and unfree.

To and fro, to and fro in the winds swung the bones and the soul of Tom, for the sins that
he had sinned on the King's highway against the laws of the King; and with shadows and a lantern
through the darkness, at the peril of their lives, came the three friends that his soul had
won before it swung in chains.  Thus the seeds of Tom's own soul that he had sown all his life
had grown into a Gallows Tree that bore in season iron chains in clusters; while the careless
seeds that he had strewn here and there, a kindly jest and a few merry words, had grown into
the triple friendship that would not desert his bones.

Then the three set the ladder against the tree, and Puglioni went up with his sword in his
right hand, and at the top of it he reached up and began to hack at the neck below the iron
collar.  Presently, the bones and the old coat and the soul of Tom fell down with a rattle,
and a moment afterwards his head that had watched so long alone swung clear from the swinging
chain.  These things Will and Joe gathered up, and Puglioni came running down his ladder, and
they heaped upon its rungs the terrible remains of their friend, and hastened away wet through
with the rain, with the fear of phantoms in their hearts and horror lying before them on the
ladder.  By two o'clock they were down again in the valley out of the bitter wind, but they
went on past the open grave into the graveyard all among the tombs, with their lantern and
their ladder and the terrible thing upon it, which kept their friendship still.  Then these
three, that had robbed the Law of its due and proper victim, still sinned on for what was still
their friend, and levered out the marble slabs from the sacred sepulchre of Paul, Archbishop
of Alois and Vayence. And from it they took the very bones of the Archbishop himself, and carried
them away to the eager grave that they had left, and put them in and shovelled back the earth.
But all that lay on the ladder they placed, with a few tears, within the great white sepulchre
under the Cross of Christ, and put back the marble slabs.

Thence the soul of Tom, arising hallowed out of sacred ground, went at dawn down the valley,
and, lingering a little about his mother's cottage and old haunts of childhood, passed on and
came to the wide lands beyond the clustered homesteads.  There, there met with it all the kindly
thoughts that the soul of Tom had ever had, and they flew and sang beside it all the way southwards,
until at last, with singing all about it, it came to Paradise.

But Will and Joe and the gypsy Puglioni went back to their gin, and robbed and cheated again
in the tavern of foul repute, and knew not that in their sinful lives they had sinned one sin
at which the Angels smiled.

In The Twilight

The lock was quite crowded with boats when we capsized.  I went down backwards for some few
feet before I started to swim, then I came spluttering upwards towards the light; but, instead
of reaching the surface, I hit my head against the keel of a boat and went down again.  I struck
out almost at once and came up, but before I reached the surface my head crashed against a
boat for the second time, and I went right to the bottom.  I was confused and thoroughly frightened.
I was desperately in need of air, and knew that if I hit a boat for the third time I should
never see the surface again. Drowning is a horrible death, notwithstanding all that has been
said to the contrary.  My past life never occurred to my mind, but I thought of many trivial
things that I might not do or see again if I were drowned.  I swam up in a slanting direction,
hoping to avoid the boat that I had struck.  Suddenly I saw all the boats in the lock quite
clearly just above me, and every one of their curved varnished planks and the scratches and
chips upon their keels.  I saw several gaps among the boats where I might have swam up to the
surface, but it did not seem worthwhile to try and get there, and I had forgotten why I wanted
to.  Then all the people leaned over the sides of their boats: I saw the light flannel suits
of the men and the coloured flowers in the women's hats, and I noticed details of their dresses
quite distinctly.  Everybody in the boats was looking down at me; then they all said to one
another, 'We must leave him now,' and they and the boats went away; and there was nothing above
me but the river and the sky, and on either side of me were the green weeds that grew in the
mud, for I had somehow sunk back to the bottom again.  The river as it flowed by murmured not
unpleasantly in my ears, and the rushes seemed to be whispering quite softly among themselves.
Presently the murmuring of the river took the form of words, and I heard it say, 'We must go
on to the sea; we must leave him now.'

Then the river went away, and both its banks; and the rushes whispered, 'Yes, we must leave
him now.' And they too departed, and I was left in a great emptiness staring up at the blue
sky.  Then the great sky bent over me, and spoke quite softly like a kindly nurse soothing
some little foolish child, and the sky said, 'Goodbye.  All will be well.  Goodbye.' And I
was sorry to lose the blue sky, but the sky went away.  Then I was alone, with nothing round
about me; I could see no light, but it was not dark--there was just absolutely nothing, above
me and below me and on every side.  I thought that perhaps I was dead, and that this might
be eternity; when suddenly some great southern hills rose up all round about me, and I was
lying on the warm, grassy slope of a valley in England.  It was a valley that I had known well
when I was young, but I had not seen it now for many years.  Beside me stood the tall flower
of the mint; I saw the sweet-smelling thyme flower and one or two wild strawberries.  There
came up to me from fields below me the beautiful smell of hay, and there was a break in the
voice of the cuckoo. There was a feeling of summer and of evening and of lateness and of Sabbath
in the air; the sky was calm and full of a strange colour, and the sun was low; the bells in
the church in the village were all a-ring, and the chimes went wandering with echoes up the
valley towards the sun, and whenever the echoes died a new chime was born. And all the people
of the village walked up a stone-paved path under a black oak porch and went into the church,
and the chimes stopped and the people of the village began to sing, and the level sunlight
shone on the white tombstones that stood all round the church.  Then there was a stillness
in the village, and shouts and laughter came up from the valley no more, only the occasional
sound of the organ and of song.  And the blue butterflies, those that love the chalk, came
and perched themselves on the tall grasses, five or six sometimes on a single piece of grass,
and they closed their wings and slept, and the grass bent a little beneath them.  And from
the woods along the tops of the hills the rabbits came hopping out and nibbled the grass, and
hopped a little further and nibbled again, and the large daisies closed their petals up and
the birds began to sing.

Then the hills spoke, all the great chalk hills that I loved, and with a deep and solemn voice
they said, 'We have come to you to say Goodbye.'

Then they all went away, and there was nothing again all round about me upon every side.  I
looked everywhere for something on which to rest the eye.  Nothing.  Suddenly a low grey sky
swept over me and a moist air met my face; a great plain rushed up to me from the edge of the
clouds; on two sides it touched the sky, and on two sides between it and the clouds a line
of low hills lay.  One line of hills brooded grey in the distance, the other stood a patchwork
of little square green fields, with a few white cottages about it.  The plain was an archipelago
of a million islands each about a yard square or less, and everyone of them was red with heather.
I was back on the Bog of Allen again after many years, and it was just the same as ever, though
I had heard that they were draining it.  I was with an old friend whom I was glad to see again,
for they had told me that he died some years ago.  He seemed strangely young, but what surprised
me most was that he stood upon a piece of bright green moss which I had always learned to think
would never bear.  I was glad, too, to see the old bog again, and all the lovely things that
grew there--the scarlet mosses and the green mosses and the firm and friendly heather, and
the deep silent water.  I saw a little stream that wandered vaguely through the bog, and little
white shells down in the clear depths of it; I saw, a little way off, one of the great pools
where no islands are, with rushes round its borders, where the duck love to come.  I looked
long at that untroubled world of heather, and then I looked at the white cottages on the hill,
and saw the grey smoke curling from their chimneys and knew that they burned turf there, and
longed for the smell of burning turf again.  And far away there arose and came nearer the weird
cry of wild and happy voices, and a flock of geese appeared that was coming from the northward.
Then their cries blended into one great voice of exultation, the voice of freedom, the voice
of Ireland, the voice of the Waste; and the voice said 'Goodbye to you. Goodbye!' and passed
away into the distance; and as it passed, the tame geese on the farms cried out to their brothers
up above them that they were free.  Then the hills went away, and the bog and the sky went
with them, and I was alone again, as lost souls are alone.

Then there grew up beside me the red brick buildings of my first school and the chapel that
adjoined it.  The fields a little way off were full of boys in white flannels playing cricket.
On the asphalt playing ground, just by the schoolroom windows, stood Agamemnon, Achilles, and
Odysseus, with their Argives armed behind them; but Hector stepped down out of a ground-floor
window, and in the schoolroom were all Priam's sons and the Achæans and fair Helen; and a little
farther away the Ten Thousand drifted across the playground, going up into the heart of Persia
to place Cyrus on his brother's throne.  And the boys that I knew called to me from the fields,
and said 'Goodbye,' and they and the fields went away; and the Ten Thousand said 'Goodbye,'
each file as they passed me marching swiftly, and they too disappeared.  And Hector and Agamemnon
said 'Goodbye,' and the host of the Argives and of the Achæans; and they all went away and
the old school with them, and I was alone again.

The next scene that filled the emptiness was rather dim: I was being led by my nurse along
a little footpath over a common in Surrey.  She was quite young.  Close by a band of gypsies
had lit their fire, near them their romantic caravan stood unhorsed, and the horse cropped
grass beside it.  It was evening, and the gypsies muttered round their fire in a tongue unknown
and strange.  Then they all said in English, 'Goodbye'. And the evening and the common and
the campfire went away.  And instead of this a white highway with darkness and stars below
it that led into darkness and stars, but at the near end of the road were common fields and
gardens, and there I stood close to a large number of people, men and women.  And I saw a man
walking alone down the road away from me towards the darkness and the stars, and all the people
called him by his name, and the man would not hear them, but walked on down the road, and the
people went on calling him by his name.  But I became irritated with the man because he would
not stop or turn round when so many people called him by his name, and it was a very strange
name.  And I became weary of hearing the strange name so very often repeated, so that I made
a great effort to call him, that he might listen and that the people might stop repeating this
strange name.  And with the effort I opened my eyes wide, and the name that the people called
was my own name, and I lay on the river's bank with men and women bending over me, and my hair
was wet.

The Ghosts

The argument that I had with my brother in his great lonely house will scarcely interest my
readers.  Not those, at least, whom I hope may be attracted by the experiment that I undertook,
and by the strange things that befell me in that hazardous region into which so lightly and
so ignorantly I allowed my fancy to enter.  It was at Oneleigh that I had visited him.

Now Oneleigh stands in a wide isolation, in the midst of a dark gathering of old whispering
cedars.  They nod their heads together when the North Wind comes, and nod again and agree,
and furtively grow still again, and say no more awhile.  The North Wind is to them like a nice
problem among wise old men; they nod their heads over it, and mutter about it all together.
They know much, those cedars, they have been there so long.  Their grandsires knew Lebanon,
and the grandsires of these were the servants of the King of Tyre and came to Solomon's court.
And amidst these black-haired children of grey-headed Time stood the old house of Oneleigh.
I know not how many centuries had lashed against it their evanescent foam of years; but it
was still unshattered, and all about it were the things of long ago, as cling strange growths
to some sea-defying rock.  Here, like the shells of long-dead limpets, was armour that men
encased themselves in long ago; here, too, were tapestries of many colours, beautiful as seaweed;
no modern flotsam ever drifted hither, no early Victorian furniture, no electric light.  The
great trade routes that littered the years with empty meat tins and cheap novels were far from
here.  Well, well, the centuries will shatter it and drive its fragments on to distant shores.
Meanwhile, while it yet stood, I went on a visit there to my brother, and we argued about ghosts.
My brother's intelligence on this subject seemed to me to be in need of correction.  He mistook
things imagined for things having an actual existence; he argued that second-hand evidence
of persons having seen ghosts proved ghosts to exist.  I said that even if they had seen ghosts,
this was no proof at all; nobody believes that there are red rats, though there is plenty of
first-hand evidence of men having seen them in delirium.  Finally, I said I would see ghosts
myself, and continue to argue against their actual existence.  So I collected a handful of
cigars and drank several cups of very strong tea, and went without my dinner, and retired into
a room where there was dark oak and all the chairs were covered with tapestry; and my brother
went to bed bored with our argument, and trying hard to dissuade me from making myself uncomfortable.
All the way up the old stairs as I stood at the bottom of them, and as his candle went winding
up and up, I heard him still trying to persuade me to have supper and go to bed.

It was a windy winter, and outside the cedars were muttering I know not what about; but I think
that they were Tories of a school long dead, and were troubled about something new.  Within,
a great damp log upon the fireplace began to squeak and sing, and struck up a whining tune,
and a tall flame stood up over it and beat time, and all the shadows crowded round and began
to dance.  In distant corners old masses of darkness sat still like chaperones and never moved.
Over there, in the darkest part of the room, stood a door that was always locked.  It led into
the hall, but no one ever used it; near that door something had happened once of which the
family are not proud.  We do not speak of it.  There in the firelight stood the venerable forms
of the old chairs; the hands that had made their tapestries lay far beneath the soil, the needles
with which they wrought were many separate flakes of rust.  No one wove now in that old room--no
one but the assiduous ancient spiders who, watching by the deathbed of the things of yore,
worked shrouds to hold their dust.  In shrouds about the cornices already lay the heart of
the oak wainscot that the worm had eaten out.

Surely at such an hour, in such a room, a fancy already excited by hunger and strong tea might
see the ghosts of former occupants.  I expected nothing less.  The fire flickered and the shadows
danced, memories of strange historic things rose vividly in my mind; but midnight chimed solemnly
from a seven-foot clock, and nothing happened.  My imagination would not be hurried, and the
chill that is with the small hours had come upon me, and I had nearly abandoned myself to sleep,
when in the hall adjoining there arose the rustling of silk dresses that I had waited for and
expected.  Then there entered two by two the high-born ladies and their gallants of Jacobean
times.  They were little more than shadows--very dignified shadows, and almost indistinct;
but you have all read ghost stories before, you have all seen in museums the dresses of those
times--there is little need to describe them; they entered, several of them, and sat down on
the old chairs, perhaps a little carelessly considering the value of the tapestries.  Then
the rustling of their dresses ceased.

Well--I had seen ghosts, and was neither frightened nor convinced that ghosts existed.  I was
about to get up out of my chair and go to bed, when there came a sound of pattering in the
hall, a sound of bare feet coming over the polished floor, and every now and then a foot would
slip and I heard claws scratching along the wood as some four-footed thing lost and regained
its balance.  I was not frightened, but uneasy.  The pattering came straight towards the room
that I was in, then I heard the sniffing of expectant nostrils; perhaps 'uneasy' was not the
most suitable word to describe my feelings then.  Suddenly a herd of black creatures larger
than bloodhounds came galloping in; they had large pendulous ears, their noses were to the
ground sniffing, they went up to the lords and ladies of long ago and fawned about them disgustingly.
Their eyes were horribly bright, and ran down to great depths.  When I looked into them I knew
suddenly what these creatures were, and I was afraid.  They were the sins, the filthy, immortal
sins of those courtly men and women.

How demure she was, the lady that sat near me on an old-world chair--how demure she was, and
how fair, to have beside her with its jowl upon her lap a sin with such cavernous red eyes,
a clear case of murder.  And you, yonder lady with the golden hair, surely not you--and yet
that fearful beast with the yellow eyes slinks from you to yonder courtier there, and whenever
one drives it away it slinks back to the other.  Over there a lady tries to smile as she strokes
the loathsome furry head of another's sin, but one of her own is jealous and intrudes itself
under her hand.  Here sits an old nobleman with his grandson on his knee, and one of the great
black sins of the grandfather is licking the child's face and has made the child its own. 
Sometimes a ghost would move and seek another chair, but always his pack of sins would move
behind him.  Poor ghosts, poor ghosts! how many flights they must have attempted for two hundred
years from their hated sins, how many excuses they must have given for their presence, and
the sins were with them still--and still unexplained.  Suddenly one of them seemed to scent
my living blood, and bayed horribly, and all the others left their ghosts at once and dashed
up to the sin that had given tongue.  The brute had picked up my scent near the door by which
I had entered, and they moved slowly nearer to me sniffing along the floor, and uttering every
now and then their fearful cry.  I saw that the whole thing had gone too far.  But now they
had seen me, now they were all about me, they sprang up trying to reach my throat; and whenever
their claws touched me, horrible thoughts came into my mind and unutterable desires dominated
my heart.  I planned bestial things as these creatures leaped around me, and planned them with
a masterly cunning.  A great red-eyed murder was among the foremost of those furry things from
whom I feebly strove to defend my throat. Suddenly it seemed to me good that I should kill
my brother.  It seemed important to me that I should not risk being punished.  I knew where
a revolver was kept; after I had shot him, I would dress the body up and put flour on the face
like a man that had been acting as a ghost.  It would be very simple.  I would say that he
had frightened me--and the servants had heard us talking about ghosts. There were one or two
trivialities that would have to be arranged, but nothing escaped my mind.  Yes, it seemed to
me very good that I should kill my brother as I looked into the red depths of this creature's
eyes.  But one last effort as they dragged me down--'If two straight lines cut one another,'
I said, 'the opposite angles are equal.  Let AB, CD, cut one another at E, then the angles
CEA, CEB equal two right angles (prop. xiii.).  Also CEA, AED equal two right angles.'

I moved towards the door to get the revolver; a hideous exultation arose among the beasts.
'But the angle CEA is common, therefore AED equals CEB.  In the same way CEA equals DEB.  QED.'
It was proved.  Logic and reason re-established themselves in my mind, there were no dark hounds
of sin, the tapestried chairs were empty.  It seemed to me an inconceivable thought that a
man should murder his brother.

The Whirlpool

Once going down to the shore of the great sea I came upon the Whirlpool lying prone upon the
sand and stretching his huge limbs in the sun.

I said to him: 'Who art thou?'

And he said:

'I am named Nooz Wana, the Whelmer of Ships, and from the Straits of Pondar Obed I am come,
wherein it is my wont to vex the seas.  There I chased Leviathan with my hands when he was
young and strong; often he slipped through my fingers, and away into the weed forests that
grow below the storms in the dusk on the floor of the sea; but at last I caught and tamed him.
For there I lurk upon the ocean's floor, midway between the knees of either cliff, to guard
the passage of the Straits from all the ships that seek the Further Seas; and whenever the
white sails of the tall ships come swelling round the corner of the crag out of the sunlit
spaces of the Known Sea and into the dark of the Straits, then standing firm upon the ocean's
floor, with my knees a little bent, I take the waters of the Straits in both my hands and whirl
them round my head.  But the ship comes gliding on with the sound of the sailors singing on
her decks, all singing songs of the islands and carrying the rumour of their cities to the
lonely seas, till they see me suddenly astride athwart their course, and are caught in the
waters as I whirl them round my head.  Then I draw in the waters of the Straits towards me
and downwards, nearer and nearer to my terrible feet, and hear in my ears above the roar of
my waters the ultimate cry of the ship; for just before I drag them to the floor of ocean and
stamp them asunder with my wrecking feet, ships utter their ultimate cry, and with it go the
lives of all the sailors and passes the soul of the ship.  And in the ultimate cry of ships
are the songs the sailors sing, and their hopes and all their loves, and the song of the wind
among the masts and timbers when they stood in the forest long ago, and the whisper of the
rain that made them grow, and the soul of the tall pine-tree or the oak.  All this a ship gives
up in one cry which she makes at the last.  And at that moment I would pity the tall ship if
I might; but a man may feel pity who sits in comfort by his fireside telling tales in the winter--no
pity are they permitted ever to feel who do the work of the gods; and so when I have brought
her circling from round my shoulders to my waist and thence, with her masts all sloping inwards,
to my knees, and lower still and downwards till her topmast pennants flutter against my ankles,
then I, Nooz Wana, Whelmer of Ships, lift up my feet and trample her beams asunder, and there
go up again to the surface of the Straits only a few broken timbers and the memories of the
sailors and of their early loves to drift for ever down the empty seas.

'Once in every hundred years, for one day only, I go to rest myself along the shore and to
sun my limbs on the sand, that the tall ships may go through the unguarded Straits and find
the Happy Isles.  And the Happy Isles stand midmost among the smiles of the sunny Further Seas,
and there the sailors may come upon content and long for nothing; or if they long for aught,
they shall possess it.

'There comes not Time with his devouring hours; nor any of the evils of the gods or men.  These
are the islands whereto the souls of the sailors every night put in from all the world to rest
from going up and down the seas, to behold again the vision of far-off intimate hills that
lift their orchards high above the fields facing the sunlight, and for a while again to speak
with the souls of old.  But about the dawn dreams twitter and arise, and circling thrice around
the Happy Isles set out again to find the world of men, then follow the souls of the sailors,
as, at evening, with slow stroke of stately wings the heron follows behind the flight of multitudinous
rooks; but the souls returning find awakening bodies and endure the toil of the day.  Such
are the Happy Isles, whereunto few have come, save but as roaming shadows in the night, and
for only a little while.

'But longer than is needed to make me strong and fierce again I may not stay, and at set of
sun, when my arms are strong again, and when I feel in my legs that I can plant them fair and
bent upon the floor of ocean, then I go back to take a new grip upon the waters of the Straits,
and to guard the Further Seas again for a hundred years. Because the gods are jealous, lest
too many men shall pass to the Happy Isles and find content.  For the gods have not content.'

The Hurricane

One night I sat alone on the great down, looking over the edge of it at a murky, sullen city.
All day long with its smoke it had troubled the holy sky, and now it sat there roaring in the
distance and glared at me with its furnaces and lighted factory windows.  Suddenly I became
aware that I was not the only enemy of that city, for I perceived the colossal form of the
Hurricane walking over the down towards me, playing idly with the flowers as he passed, and
near me he stopped and spake to the Earthquake, who had come up mole-like but vast out of a
cleft in the earth.

'Old friend,' said the Hurricane, 'rememberest when we wrecked the nations and drave the herds
of the sea into new pasturage?'

'Yes,' said the Earthquake, drowsily; 'Yes, yes.'

'Old friend,' said the Hurricane, 'there are cities everywhere.  Over thy head while thou didst
sleep they have built them constantly.  My four children the Winds suffocate with the fumes
of them, the valleys are desolate of flowers, and the lovely forests are cut down since last
we went abroad together.'

The Earthquake lay there, with his snout towards the city, blinking at the lights, while the
tall Hurricane stood beside him pointing fiercely at it.

'Come,' said the Hurricane, 'let us fare forth again and destroy them, that all the lovely
forests may come back and the furry creeping things.  Thou shalt whelm these cities utterly
and drive the people forth, and I will smite them in the shelterless places and sweep their
desecrations from the sea.  Wilt thou come forth with me and do this thing for the glory of
it? Wilt thou wreck the world again as we did, thou and I, or ever Man had come? Wilt thou
come forth to this place at this hour tomorrow night?'

'Yes,' said the Earthquake, 'Yes,' and he crept to his cleft again, and head foremost waddled
down into the abysses.

When the Hurricane strode away, I got up quietly and departed, but at that hour of the next
night I came up cautiously to the same spot.  There I found the huge grey form of the Hurricane
alone, with his head bowed in his hands, weeping; for the Earthquake sleeps long and heavily
in the abysses, and he would not wake.

The Fortress Unvanquishable, Save For Sacnoth

In a wood older than record, a foster brother of the hills, stood the village of Allathurion;
and there was peace between the people of that village and all the folk who walked in the dark
ways of the wood, whether they were human or of the tribes of the beasts or of the race of
the fairies and the elves and the little sacred spirits of trees and streams.  Moreover, the
village people had peace among themselves and between them and their lord, Lorendiac.  In front
of the village was a wide and grassy space, and beyond this the great wood again, but at the
back the trees came right up to the houses, which, with their great beams and wooden framework
and thatched roofs, green with moss, seemed almost to be a part of the forest.

Now in the time I tell of, there was trouble in Allathurion, for of an evening fell dreams
were wont to come slipping through the tree trunks and into the peaceful village; and they
assumed dominion of men's minds and led them in watches of the night through the cindery plains
of Hell.  Then the magician of that village made spells against those fell dreams; yet still
the dreams came flitting through the trees as soon as the dark had fallen, and led men's minds
by night into terrible places and caused them to praise Satan openly with their lips.

And men grew afraid of sleep in Allathurion.  And they grew worn and pale, some through the
want of rest, and others from fear of the things they saw on the cindery plains of Hell.

Then the magician of the village went up into the tower of his house, and all night long those
whom fear kept awake could see his window high up in the night glowing softly alone.  The next
day, when the twilight was far gone and night was gathering fast, the magician went away to
the forest's edge, and uttered there the spell that he had made.  And the spell was a compulsive,
terrible thing, having a power over evil dreams and over spirits of ill; for it was a verse
of forty lines in many languages, both living and dead, and had in it the word wherewith the
people of the plains are wont to curse their camels, and the shout wherewith the whalers of
the north lure the whales shoreward to be killed, and a word that causes elephants to trumpet;
and every one of the forty lines closed with a rhyme for 'wasp'.

And still the dreams came flitting through the forest, and led men's souls into the plains
of Hell.  Then the magician knew that the dreams were from Gaznak.  Therefore he gathered the
people of the village, and told them that he had uttered his mightiest spell--a spell having
power over all that were human or of the tribes of the beasts; and that since it had not availed
the dreams must come from Gaznak, the greatest magician among the spaces of the stars.  And
he read to the people out of the Book of Magicians, which tells the comings of the comet and
foretells his coming again.  And he told them how Gaznak rides upon the comet, and how he visits
Earth once in every two hundred and thirty years, and makes for himself a vast, invincible
fortress and sends out dreams to feed on the minds of men, and may never be vanquished but
by the sword Sacnoth.

And a cold fear fell on the hearts of the villagers when they found that their magician had
failed them.

Then spake Leothric, son of the Lord Lorendiac, and twenty years old was he: 'Good Master,
what of the sword Sacnoth?'

And the village magician answered: 'Fair Lord, no such sword as yet is wrought, for it lies
as yet in the hide of Tharagavverug, protecting his spine.'

Then said Leothric: 'Who is Tharagavverug, and where may he be encountered?'

And the magician of Allathurion answered: 'He is the dragon-crocodile who haunts the Northern
marshes and ravages the homesteads by their marge.  And the hide of his back is of steel, and
his under parts are of iron; but along the midst of his back, over his spine, there lies a
narrow strip of unearthly steel.  This strip of steel is Sacnoth, and it may be neither cleft
nor molten, and there is nothing in the world that may avail to break it, nor even leave a
scratch upon its surface.  It is of the length of a good sword, and of the breadth thereof.
Shouldst thou prevail against Tharagavverug, his hide may be melted away from Sacnoth in a
furnace; but there is only one thing that may sharpen Sacnoth's edge, and this is one of Tharagavverug's
own steel eyes; and the other eye thou must fasten to Sacnoth's hilt, and it will watch for
thee.  But it is a hard task to vanquish Tharagavverug, for no sword can pierce his hide; his
back cannot be broken, and he can neither burn nor drown.  In one way only can Tharagavverug
die, and that is by starving.'

Then sorrow fell upon Leothric, but the magician spoke on:

'If a man drive Tharagavverug away from his food with a stick for three days, he will starve
on the third day at sunset.  And though he is not vulnerable, yet in one spot he may take hurt,
for his nose is only of lead.  A sword would merely lay bare the uncleavable bronze beneath,
but if his nose be smitten constantly with a stick he will always recoil from the pain, and
thus may Tharagavverug, to left and right, be driven away from his food.'

Then Leothric said: 'What is Tharagavverug's food?'

And the magician of Allathurion said: 'His food is men.'

But Leothric went straightway thence, and cut a great staff from a hazel tree, and slept early
that evening.  But the next morning, awaking from troubled dreams, he arose before the dawn,
and, taking with him provisions for five days, set out through the forest northwards towards
the marshes.  For some hours he moved through the gloom of the forest, and when he emerged
from it the sun was above the horizon shining on pools of water in the waste land.  Presently
he saw the claw-marks of Tharagavverug deep in the soil, and the track of his tail between
them like a furrow in a field.  Then Leothric followed the tracks till he heard the bronze
heart of Tharagavverug before him, booming like a bell.

And Tharagavverug, it being the hour when he took the first meal of the day, was moving towards
a village with his heart tolling.  And all the people of the village were come out to meet
him, as it was their wont to do; for they abode not the suspense of awaiting Tharagavverug
and of hearing him sniffing brazenly as he went from door to door, pondering slowly in his
metal mind what habitant he should choose. What kind of art, how great, what style is that? You certainly write to
vulgar people and no finesse, not distinguished spirits. I thought I had been called to hear
things more educated, more elegant. Oh! I do not understand well the novel. I see the bias you
are going to give that: ends with outrageous jokes, and has begun. Ay! Trap for fools something
that began so well! There's the germ of a high moralistic work. What a pity! This attic, this poor
young man who lives there, sadly gazed at the lady's viewpoint ... and spend days, and looks
... and spend nights, and look ... May I die if that I was not able to do two volumes! And that
mysterious lady ... I would not say who it was until the thirtieth chapter. You were admirably
prepared the ground to make up a work of long breath. What a pity!

Upon hearing this, I do not know what happened to me. Since I made frank confession of my impressions,
although I may be unfavorable, I am compelled to say that the opinion of someone so adept puzzled
me, so i didn't get much time to say a word. Serve flush with that I confess to my singular atonement
and to the smug audacity idea of ​​convening such enlightened jury, to make known one of the most
ridiculous human mind abortions that have been exit. I finally calmed, thanks to a few phrases
always great kindness of the Duke, and making an effort, responded to the poet:

"And since the beginning of the novel, given the two characters, the attic, close and others,
what you ran? How to develop the action? (Needless to say, in making these questions only led me
a desire to learn, taking over the recipes for composing literary devices that he used his incomparable
sibyl.)

- Oh! What would I do, you say? - Said coming up to me with such violence that I thought I was
going to skip the eye with his nose, - what would I do? Surely throwing a lot out there of
these elements. Suppose I am the author: this poor girl is very beautiful, it's dark and interesting,
a southern type, hot, a son of the desert. From his window he constantly looks to the young,
and spend the night listening to the sad mayar of tigers (and call for now to cats, to find
another animal more poetic), and since there is annihilated in the fool inspires love that mysterious
lady, misteriooooosa ... What shall I do? My God! First to describe the lady very poetic ...
cally, very languid, with blond hair, very blond and floating, and a waist so .... (In saying
this, he made an unusual gesture, determining the thumb and index fingers of both hands a circle
no larger than the periphery of an onion.) The paint very sad, always dressed in white, day and
night resting on the railing, hand on the cheek, and looking at the vine, climbing plant lizard as
balconies, came to his own shoulders.

- I warn you - I said sheepishly
- that I did not put garden, but street.

- No matter - said, - I
take off the street and put wall units.

Continue: the would always very sad, and occasionally a tear came
to his blue eyes, looking like errant drop spray that stops to rest
in the cup of a hyacinth.

The young look to the lady, the do not watch the young lady. Who is this lady? Is it a wife
victim, a martyr daughter, a pure girl, thrown into the whirlpool of society by the fury of
the passions? Do you love or hate? Hope or fear? Ah! This is what I would keep very well to
say to the thirtieth chapter, Where would the great Golgo theatrical work. Here is how to achieve
develop action to see and get to know the two characters. One day the lady crying more than ever,
and looks more firmly into the garden, her white dress is more than ever, more than ever on their
hair blond. A bird that plays in the bushes comes to rest on the vines near her hand the lady,
and as seeing the tip of the thumb feel is a cherry, the pike. The young screams, and at the
same time save the frightened little bird, soar, and go after perch in the loft across the street.
The lady looks up following the tiny volatile and see ... Will believe whom do you see? The
young man who has been eating it with twelve chapters eyes without it being condescending
stare. Since then, an electrical current is established between the two lovers. It had looked!
Ay! "

At this point, I turned casually to the Duke of Cantarranas, was pale with emotion, a tear
came into his eyes green, resembling dew drop traveler stops to stand
in a lettuce cup.

Sentíame I confused, overwhelmed by the astonishing inventiveness, originality, the wit of the
woman, with whom the Safos and Staël were literate three to the room. Of the other characters
in my audience, say anything yet.

"Bravo, superb! - Said Cantarranas applauding with vigor and enthusiasm,
thereby, that he jumped the wrong button on his shirt stuck, and the
tips were detachable neck in the air.

"

- Do you like my thoughts to you? - Said the poet.

This is the only Canevas, then comes the style and ...

- I am excited about the idea - I replied, pointing with her pencil as the magic brush draw
your fantasy.

- This is the path you should follow he added, giving to Cantarranas
a pin to be asserted neck.

- Oh! The resort is lovely bird.

- The
bird - Cantarranas said - should be the middleman between the white
and the young lady South.

- Well, I continue to develop the action
as follows - .-- Here she continued: the young man took the bird with
her delicate fingers and giving him some bread crumbs, was fed several
days, getting tame dint of patience.

You see how strange: it was loose in the room without trying to escape.

One day I tied a thread on the leg and threw him to fly, the bird came to rest on the balcony
where I was the lady, who stroked a lot and migajitas gave him cake
soaked in milk.

Later returned to the attic, the Young put a note tied around his neck, and the bird carried
it to the lady. This established fast, passionate and volatile match that lasted three months. I
would copy here correspondence, which would take half a book, the most delicate and elegant.
He began: "Mrs. Ignored: The winged characters that I send to you, will tell you, etc ..." And
she would reply: "Unknown Knight: With shame and dread I read your letter and would lie if
you do not ensure which of course I believe to find a loyal friend, a friend no more ... "For
this to Friends just a start. This prepares the reader to love the big fuss to be come later.

-
What tenderness, how soft, how pleasantly! - Duke said at the height of admiration!

- I agree the thought - I stated, noting that all discrete device to fit after in my work as best suited
me.

After the poet was shown in all its splendor, decorated with gallantry from style, incomparable
wit, then let me run and shameful for the difference resulting from
the wonderful inventiveness and the dry, barren and birth of my caletre
emaciated, How had I dared to continue reading?

Or two pulls to make me open my mouth; and there it had broken the
manuscript, if the Duke was the same kindness, not me required to
pursue, with prayers and courtesy, who overcame my modesty and changed
in value my well-founded fear.

I looked, then, in my manuscript the point where it left off, and read it following:

"The young Alexius was poor, very poor. (Okay - said the poet.) His parents had died few years,
and only what was wrong with her aunt, who lives in Alicante, live, if living was. The bad
and the worst soup cooked with that Dona Antonia de Trastamara and Peransúrez fed him were such that
would not be enough to keep up to a Carthusian. And yet, Doña Antonia Peransúrez Trastamara and
so noble as ugly catadura name, used to complain the guest did not pay, horrible accusation
that freezes the blood in the veins, but is true. (The poet articulated a censure me in the heart
sounded like an echo loss.) So the real hundred of Alicante came, the poor had nothing to sticks
was, indeed, the thing that least needed it.

Then they ate debts and I could not throw into the street without looking out of each paver a
creditor. As short-sighted, the appears to counterfeits looking for him. Singular pocket attraction
rarely busy! As to distraction, he had, besides the lady above, but in flocks murgas came
every night to entertain the people hanging from the balconies.

- Ay! Alas - noted poet, - that of the murgas is deplorable. Since you have to fall back in
the bilge. "

Upon hearing this, another character that I heard for the first time broke his silence, and
with thundering voice, giving a fist on the table that scared us all, said:

"It is not only very good, great, amazing. Why, do everything has to be whining, softness, dengue
fever, mellows and nonsense? Do you write for work and old maids
green, or to formal men and people of common sense?

"

The speaker was the third eminence that made up the jury, and I think when the time to describe
it.

III

D. Mark had been a novelist. Since married merchant street cloths Posts, left the Muses, who does
not much ever produced and helped to make the belly a bad year.

He continued, however, their hobbies, and since it does not deliver
the painful work of creation, he would devote himself to criticism,
easier and bearable.

Always his novels (the most famous was called The Candle of Anastasio) shone the naked reality.
Of the many differences that existed between his muse and Virgil, the main one being that of D.
Marcos fled the simple and pure nature scenes, and just as the fish does not can live out
of water, the aforementioned muse was not at his center were from infected attics, from the
damp basement, of all places unpleasant and disgusting. His paintings Tables were emaciated,
and their favorite types the most weird and deformed beings. A curious fond of statistics,
it found that one of his novels came out twenty-eight hunchbacked eighty-eyed, sixty women from
these they call them, until two and a half dozen old green, and as many old deceptive. His theater
was the sewer, and sludge thick and smelly covered all his characters. And such was the temper of
the man distinguished, which he saw as God created ugly, sickening and disgusting. These epithets
the fit on each page, strung together like beads. It was neat descriptions, stopping more when the
reproduced object was full of cobwebs, inhabited or colonized by bugs by the illustrious family
of rats, and his style had a sublime carelessness, faithful cure disorder of the storm. Is it accurate
to say that a master hand using the darkest color and their characters, without exception,
they died by drowning in a sink, suffocating in lagoon pestilential, or killed with an ax, saw
or other tool bizarre? It is not necessary, no, they roam the world, straining the presses, more than
three dozen of his novels, which I think they are read in all the corners of the globe.

In his private life, there were many adventures, each more interesting. While he was a writer, his
fame was great, his hunger much, his own money scarce, the attitude of those we call evil bring.
The editor who bought and published his lucubrations, was not resolved in the pay as in print,
infirmity own talent who traded, and D. Marcos, whose name sounded from the banks of the Llobregat
Guadalete until, covered with laurels fainted, not more gold than
his fantasy, or other wealth than his glory.

But as luck the person of the distinguished author sack of straw to look like a widow trade Wool
and other excesses in the streets of Posts, was tender correspondence, courteous visits honest
treatment, and at last Unioliva Hymen, but not all grumbled about that neighborhood by what,
how and when the wedding. What the Muses wept this link, not for cash, because visible in the
gap, bartered the low-nutrient writer laurels for the prosaic fill of his new life and accounts hung
up his pen a rack, as Hamete so that any trashy novelist played out hereinafter. After a long
honeymoon, which have never seen fabric merchants, are said not always reigned peace at home
more Octavian. They were not satisfied's biographers D. Marcos in the case of certain fights,
who put his wife in danger of being killed by her husband, some attribute it to whims the writer,
other more conscientious, and always looking for hidden causes of events human to become growing
pessimism infiltróse points so in their thinking, that filled his life with melancholy and ennui.
This influx of big ideas in big souls!

In the eyes of the profane vulgar, D. Mark was always the same. He advised young people seeking
guide them along the path of the sewer. Gave advice whenever it asked for, and not refused
to praise the new writers, if your school were colorful, it was bitumen school.

This is the third character of the four who were my audience, and he who exposed their way of thinking,
saying:

"It is not only very good. You have to paint life as it is: disgusting, vile, rude. The world is this:
not for us to reform it, supposing it to our whim and fancy, we meet only portray things as
they are, and things are ugly. This young man you've painted there is so bright, and he needs
a good dose of black.

Today we do not know how to give chiaroscuro style, and since I have stopped writing certain
people that I know, is the novel on the floor.

If you want to do an exemplary work, surrounds the gentleman of all kinds of pity and misery, you
throw on him the sinister shadow of society, and such society is most revolting, disgusting and
filthy that I have thrown in his face. And then if you should offer a moral lesson to his
readers, have the boy exchange of overnight, by sheer force of hunger and satiety, in a despicable
creature, revealing and the bottom of junk in the heart of every human being there. Introduce
you to all the dark reality of life, bracts in this ocean of mud, unable to float, and drowning
choking, drowning .... But, yes, let you fall in love with the lady hydrophobia opposite,
because in that great dramatic device has to be based around the fictional building. If I were
in charge of developing the plan, I would do so ingenious, never seen or novels or dramas.

-
To see, to see? - Interrogate all, I enter for the sake of my literary thoughts friend, others
by curiosity and desire to see in all their horror that the intellectual cesspool atrocious
ingenuity.

- I would do next - continued: - I would be very desperate, not knowing what to do to communicate
and engage with the lady across the street. Suppress that of the bird, which is unbearable. (The
poet left betrayed, with a wave of indignation, her outraged mother's
love.) He thinks sometimes get a bandit to rob the lady, others would
think burning the house to get the lady in his arms.

Meanwhile becomes thin, yellow, cadaverous-looking a fool or sorcerer, the house is falling
apart, and their misery is forced to eat rats. (Cantarranas closed his eyes after looking at the
sky in anguish.) One day he passes the trick lies a clever, and for
this I have to assume that lives, not in the house opposite but in
the attic of the house.

  And beyond the abysses, where the way led up to the farther chambers of
the fortress, Leothric heard the musicians playing their magical tune.  So he stepped on to
the way, which was scarcely a stride in width, and moved along it holding Sacnoth naked.  And
to and fro beneath him in each abyss whirred the wings of vampires passing up and down, all
giving praise to Satan as they flew. Presently he perceived the dragon Thok lying upon the
way, pretending to sleep, and his tail hung down into one of the abysses.

And Leothric went towards him, and when he was quite close Thok rushed at Leothric.

And he smote deep with Sacnoth, and Thok tumbled into the abyss, screaming, and his limbs made
a whirring in the darkness as he fell, and he fell till his scream sounded no louder than a
whistle and then could be heard no more.  Once or twice Leothric saw a star blink for an instant
and reappear again, and this momentary eclipse of a few stars was all that remained in the
world of the body of Thok. And Lunk, the brother of Thok, who had lain a little behind him,
saw that this must be Sacnoth and fled lumbering away.  And all the while that he walked between
the abysses, the mighty vault of the roof of the fortress still stretched over Leothric's head,
all filled with gloom.  Now, when the further side of the abyss came into view, Leothric saw
a chamber that opened with innumerable arches upon the twin abysses, and the pillars of the
arches went away into the distance and vanished in the gloom to left and right.

Far down the dim precipice on which the pillars stood he could see windows small and closely
barred, and between the bars there showed at moments, and disappeared again, things that I
shall not speak of.

There was no light here except for the great Southern stars that shone below the abysses, and
here and there in the chamber through the arches lights that moved furtively without the sound
of footfall.

Then Leothric stepped from the way, and entered the great chamber.

Even to himself he seemed but a tiny dwarf as he walked under one of those colossal arches.

The last faint light of evening flickered through a window painted in sombre colours commemorating
the achievements of Satan upon Earth.  High up in the wall the window stood, and the streaming
lights of candles lower down moved stealthily away.

Other light there was none, save for a faint blue glow from the steel eye of Tharagavverug
that peered restlessly about it from the hilt of Sacnoth.  Heavily in the chamber hung the
clammy odour of a large and deadly beast.

Leothric moved forward slowly with the blade of Sacnoth in front of him feeling for a foe,
and the eye in the hilt of it looking out behind.

Nothing stirred.

If anything lurked behind the pillars of the colonnade that held aloft the roof, it neither
breathed nor moved.

The music of the magical musicians sounded from very near.

Suddenly the great doors on the far side of the chamber opened to left and right.  For some
moments Leothric saw nothing move, and waited clutching Sacnoth.  Then Wong Bongerok came towards
him, breathing.

This was the last and faithfullest guard of Gaznak, and came from slobbering just now his master's
hand.

More as a child than a dragon was Gaznak wont to treat him, giving him often in his fingers
tender pieces of man all smoking from his table.

Long and low was Wong Bongerok, and subtle about the eyes, and he came breathing malice against
Leothric out of his faithful breast, and behind him roared the armoury of his tail, as when
sailors drag the cable of the anchor all rattling down the deck.

And well Wong Bongerok knew that he now faced Sacnoth, for it had been his wont to prophesy
quietly to himself for many years as he lay curled at the feet of Gaznak.

And Leothric stepped forward into the blast of his breath, and lifted Sacnoth to strike.

But when Sacnoth was lifted up, the eye of Tharagavverug in the butt of the hilt beheld the
dragon and perceived his subtlety.

For he opened his mouth wide, and revealed to Leothric the ranks of his sabre teeth, and his
leather gums flapped upwards.  But while Leothric made to smite at his head, he shot forward
scorpion-wise over his head the length of his armoured tail.  All this the eye perceived in
the hilt of Sacnoth, who smote suddenly sideways.  Not with the edge smote Sacnoth, for, had
he done so, the severed end of the tail had still come hurtling on, as some pine tree that
the avalanche has hurled point foremost from the cliff right through the broad breast of some
mountaineer.  So had Leothric been transfixed; but Sacnoth smote sideways with the flat of
his blade, and sent the tail whizzing over Leothric's left shoulder; and it rasped upon his
armour as it went, and left a groove upon it.  Sideways then at Leothric smote the foiled tail
of Wong Bongerok, and Sacnoth parried, and the tail went shrieking up the blade and over Leothric's
head. Then Leothric and Wong Bongerok fought sword to tooth, and the sword smote as only Sacnoth
can, and the evil faithful life of Wong Bongerok the dragon went out through the wide wound.

Then Leothric walked on past that dead monster, and the armoured body still quivered a little.
And for a while it was like all the ploughshares in a county working together in one field
behind tired and struggling horses; then the quivering ceased, and Wong Bongerok lay still to rust.

And Leothric went on to the open gates, and Sacnoth dripped quietly along the floor.

By the open gates through which Wong Bongerok had entered, Leothric came into a corridor echoing
with music.  This was the first place from which Leothric could see anything above his head,
for hitherto the roof had ascended to mountainous heights and had stretched indistinct in the
gloom.  But along the narrow corridor hung huge bells low and near to his head, and the width
of each brazen bell was from wall to wall, and they were one behind the other.  And as he passed
under each the bell uttered, and its voice was mournful and deep, like to the voice of a bell
speaking to a man for the last time when he is newly dead.  Each bell uttered once as Leothric
came under it, and their voices sounded solemnly and wide apart at ceremonious intervals. 
For if he walked slow, these bells came closer together, and when he walked swiftly they moved
farther apart.  And the echoes of each bell tolling above his head went on before him whispering
to the others.  Once when he stopped they all jangled angrily till he went on again.

Between these slow and boding notes came the sound of the magical musicians.  They were playing
a dirge now very mournfully.

And at last Leothric came to the end of the Corridor of the Bells, and beheld there a small
black door.  And all the corridor behind him was full of the echoes of the tolling, and they
all muttered to one another about the ceremony; and the dirge of the musicians came floating
slowly through them like a procession of foreign elaborate guests, and all of them boded ill
to Leothric.

The black door opened at once to the hand of Leothric, and he found himself in the open air
in a wide court paved with marble.  High over it shone the moon, summoned there by the hand
of Gaznak.

There Gaznak slept, and around him sat his magical musicians, all playing upon strings.  And,
even sleeping, Gaznak was clad in armour, and only his wrists and face and neck were bare.

But the marvel of that place was the dreams of Gaznak; for beyond the wide court slept a dark
abyss, and into the abyss there poured a white cascade of marble stairways, and widened out
below into terraces and balconies with fair white statues on them, and descended again in a
wide stairway, and came to lower terraces in the dark, where swart uncertain shapes went to
and fro.  All these were the dreams of Gaznak, and issued from his mind, and, becoming gleaming
marble, passed over the edge of the abyss as the musicians played.  And all the while out of
the mind of Gaznak, lulled by that strange music, went spires and pinnacles beautiful and slender,
ever ascending skywards.  And the marble dreams moved slow in time to the music.  When the
bells tolled and the musicians played their dirge, ugly gargoyles came out suddenly all over
the spires and pinnacles, and great shadows passed swiftly down the steps and terraces, and
there was hurried whispering in the abyss.

When Leothric stepped from the black door, Gaznak opened his eyes. He looked neither to left
nor right, but stood up at once facing Leothric.

Then the magicians played a deathspell on their strings, and there arose a humming along the
blade of Sacnoth as he turned the spell aside.  When Leothric dropped not down, and they heard
the humming of Sacnoth, the magicians arose and fled, all wailing, as they went, upon their
strings.

Then Gaznak drew out screaming from its sheath the sword that was the mightiest in the world
except for Sacnoth, and slowly walked towards Leothric; and he smiled as he walked, although
his own dreams had foretold his doom.  And when Leothric and Gaznak came together, each looked
at each, and neither spoke a word; but they smote both at once, and their swords met, and each
sword knew the other and from whence he came.  And whenever the sword of Gaznak smote on the
blade of Sacnoth it rebounded gleaming, as hail from off slated roofs; but whenever it fell
upon the armour of Leothric, it stripped it off in sheets.  And upon Gaznak's armour Sacnoth
fell oft and furiously, but ever he came back snarling, leaving no mark behind, and as Gaznak
fought he held his left hand hovering close over his head.  Presently Leothric smote fair and
fiercely at his enemy's neck, but Gaznak, clutching his own head by the hair, lifted it high
aloft, and Sacnoth went cleaving through an empty space. Then Gaznak replaced his head upon
his neck, and all the while fought nimbly with his sword; and again and again Leothric swept
with Sacnoth at Gaznak's bearded neck, and ever the left hand of Gaznak was quicker than the
stroke, and the head went up and the sword rushed vainly under it.

And the ringing fight went on till Leothric's armour lay all round him on the floor and the
marble was splashed with his blood, and the sword of Gaznak was notched like a saw from meeting
the blade of Sacnoth.  Still Gaznak stood unwounded and smiling still.

At last Leothric looked at the throat of Gaznak and aimed with Sacnoth, and again Gaznak lifted
his head by the hair; but not at his throat flew Sacnoth, for Leothric struck instead at the
lifted hand, and through the wrist of it went Sacnoth whirring, as a scythe goes through the
stem of a single flower.

And bleeding, the severed hand fell to the floor; and at once blood spurted from the shoulders
of Gaznak and dripped from the fallen head, and the tall pinnacles went down into the earth,
and the wide fair terraces all rolled away, and the court was gone like the dew, and a wind
came and the colonnades drifted thence, and all the colossal halls of Gaznak fell.  And the
abysses closed up suddenly as the mouth of a man who, having told a tale, will for ever speak
no more.

Then Leothric looked around him in the marshes where the night mist was passing away, and there
was no fortress nor sound of dragon or mortal, only beside him lay an old man, wizened and
evil and dead, whose head and hand were severed from his body.

And gradually over the wide lands the dawn was coming up, and ever growing in beauty as it
came, like to the peal of an organ played by a master's hand, growing louder and lovelier as
the soul of the master warms, and at last giving praise with all its mighty voice.

Then the birds sang, and Leothric went homeward, and left the marshes and came to the dark
wood, and the light of the dawn ascending lit him upon his way.  And into Allathurion he came
ere noon, and with him brought the evil wizened head, and the people rejoiced, and their nights
of trouble ceased.

    *   *   *   *   *   *   *

This is the tale of the vanquishing of The Fortress Unvanquishable, Save For Sacnoth, and of
its passing away, as it is told and believed by those who love the mystic days of old.

Others have said, and vainly claim to prove, that a fever came to Allathurion, and went away;
and that this same fever drove Leothric into the marshes by night, and made him dream there
and act violently with a sword.

And others again say that there hath been no town of Allathurion, and that Leothric never lived.

Peace to them.  The gardener hath gathered up this autumn's leaves. Who shall see them again,
or who wot of them? And who shall say what hath befallen in the days of long ago?

The Lord of Cities

I came one day upon a road that wandered so aimlessly that it was suited to my mood, so I followed
it, and it led me presently among deep woods.  Somewhere in the midst of them Autumn held his
court, sitting wreathed with gorgeous garlands; and it was the day before his annual festival
of the Dance of Leaves, the courtly festival upon which hungry Winter rushes mob-like, and
there arise the furious cries of the North Wind triumphing, and all the splendour and grace
of the woods is gone, and Autumn flees away, discrowned and forgotten, and never again returns.
Other Autumns arise, other Autumns, and fall before other Winters.  A road led away to the
left, but my road went straight on.  The road to the left had a trodden appearance; there were
wheel tracks on it, and it seemed the correct way to take.  It looked as if no one could have
any business with the road that led straight on and up the hill.  Therefore I went straight
on and up the hill; and here and there on the road grew blades of grass undisturbed in the
repose and hush that the road had earned from going up and down the world; for you can go by
this road, as you can go by all roads, to London, to Lincoln, to the North of Scotland, to
the West of Wales, and to Wrellisford where roads end. Presently the woods ended, and I came
to the open fields and at the same moment to the top of the hill, and saw the high places of
Somerset and the downs of Wilts spread out along the horizon. Suddenly I saw underneath me
the village of Wrellisford, with no sound in its street but the voice of the Wrellis roaring
as he tumbled over a weir above the village.  So I followed my road down over the crest of
the hill, and the road became more languid as I descended, and less and less concerned with
the cares of a highway. Here a spring broke out in the middle of it, and here another. The
road never heeded.  A stream ran right across it, still it straggled on.  Suddenly it gave
up the minimum property that a road should possess, and, renouncing its connection with High
Streets, its lineage of Piccadilly, shrank to one side and became an unpretentious footpath.
Then it led me to the old bridge over the stream, and thus I came to Wrellisford, and found
after travelling in many lands a village with no wheel tracks in its street.  On the other
side of the bridge, my friend the road struggled a few yards up a grassy slope, and there ceased.
Over all the village hung a great stillness, with the roar of the Wrellis cutting right across
it, and there came occasionally the bark of a dog that kept watch over the broken stillness
and over the sanctity of that untravelled road.  That terrible and wasting fever that, unlike
so many plagues, comes not from the East but from the West, the fever of hurry, had not come
here--only the Wrellis hurried on his eternal quest, but it was a calm and placid hurry that
gave one time for song.  It was in the early afternoon, and nobody was about.  Either they
worked beyond the mysterious valley that nursed Wrellisford and hid it from the world, or else
they secluded themselves within their old-time houses that were roofed with tiles of stone.
I sat down upon the old stone bridge and watched the Wrellis, who seemed to me to be the only
traveller that came from far away into this village where roads end, and passed on beyond it.
And yet the Wrellis comes singing out of eternity, and tarries for a very little while in the
village where roads end, and passes on into eternity again; and so surely do all that dwell
in Wrellisford.  I wondered as I leaned upon the bridge in what place the Wrellis would first
find the sea, whether as he wound idly through meadows on his long quest he would suddenly
behold him, and, leaping down over some rocky cliff, take to him at once the message of the
hills.  Or whether, widening slowly into some grand and tidal estuary, he would take his waste
of waters to the sea and the might of the river should meet with the might of the waves, like
to two Emperors clad in gleaming mail meeting midway between two hosts of war; and the little
Wrellis would become a haven for returning ships and a setting-out place for adventurous men.

A little beyond the bridge there stood an old mill with a ruined roof, and a small branch of
the Wrellis rushed through its emptiness shouting, like a boy playing alone in a corridor of
some desolate house.  The mill-wheel was gone, but there lay there still great bars and wheels
and cogs, the bones of some dead industry.  I know not what industry was once lord in that
house, I know not what retinue of workers mourns him now; I only know who is lord there today
in all those empty chambers.  For as soon as I entered, I saw a whole wall draped with his
marvellous black tapestry, without price because inimitable and too delicate to pass from hand
to hand among merchants.  I looked at the wonderful complexity of its infinite threads, my
finger sank into it for more than an inch without feeling the touch; so black it was and so
carefully wrought, sombrely covering the whole of the wall, that it might have been worked
to commemorate the deaths of all that ever lived there, as indeed it was.  I looked through
a hole in the wall into an inner chamber where a worn-out driving band went among many wheels,
and there this priceless inimitable stuff not merely clothed the walls but hung from bars and
ceiling in beautiful draperies, in marvellous festoons.  Nothing was ugly in this desolate
house, for the busy artist's soul of its present lord had beautified everything in its desolation.
It was the unmistakable work of the spider, in whose house I was, and the house was utterly
desolate but for him, and silent but for the roar of the Wrellis and the shout of the little
stream.  Then I turned homewards; and as I went up and over the hill and lost the sight of
the village, I saw the road whiten and harden and gradually broaden out till the tracks of
wheels appeared; and it went afar to take the young men of Wrellisford into the wide ways of
the earth--to the new West and the mysterious East, and into the troubled South.

And that night, when the house was still and sleep was far off, hushing hamlets and giving
ease to cities, my fancy wandered up that aimless road and came suddenly to Wrellisford.  And
it seemed to me that the travelling of so many people for so many years between Wrellisford
and John o' Groat's, talking to one another as they went or muttering alone, had given the
road a voice. And it seemed to me that night that the road spoke to the river by Wrellisford
bridge, speaking with the voice of many pilgrims.  And the road said to the river: 'I rest
here.  How is it with you?'

And the river, who is always speaking, said: 'I rest nowhere from doing the Work of the World.
I carry the murmur of inner lands to the sea, and to the abysses voices of the hills.'

'It is I,' said the road, 'that do the Work of the World, and take from city to city the rumour
of each.  There is nothing higher than Man and the making of cities.  What do you do for Man?'

And the river said: 'Beauty and song are higher than Man.  I carry the news seaward of the
first song of the thrush after the furious retreat of winter northward, and the first timid
anemone learns from me that she is safe and that spring has truly come.  Oh but the song of
all the birds in spring is more beautiful than Man, and the first coming of the hyacinth more
delectable than his face!  When spring is fallen upon the days of summer, I carry away with
mournful joy at night petal by petal the rhododendron's bloom.  No lit procession of purple
kings is nigh so fair as that.  No beautiful death of well-beloved men hath such a glory of
forlornness.  And I bear far away the pink and white petals of the apple-blossom's youth when
the laborious time comes for his work in the world and for the bearing of apples.  And I am
robed each day and every night anew with the beauty of heaven, and I make lovely visions of
the trees.  But Man! What is Man? In the ancient parliament of the elder hills, when the grey
ones speak together, they say nought of Man, but concern themselves only with their brethren
the stars.  Or when they wrap themselves in purple cloaks at evening, they lament some old
irreparable wrong, or, uttering some mountain hymn, all mourn the set of sun.'

'Your beauty,' said the road, 'and the beauty of the sky, and of the rhododendron blossom and
of spring, live only in the mind of Man, and except in the mind of Man the mountains have no
voices.  Nothing is beautiful that has not been seen by Man's eye.  Or if your rhododendron
blossom was beautiful for a moment, it soon withered and was drowned, and spring soon passes
away; beauty can only live on in the mind of Man.  I bring thought into the mind of Man swiftly
from distant places every day.  I know the Telegraph--I know him well; he and I have walked
for hundreds of miles together.  There is no work in the world except for Man and the making
of his cities.  I take wares to and fro from city to city.'

'My little stream in the field there,' said the river, 'used to make wares in that house for
awhile once.'

'Ah,' said the road, 'I remember, but I brought cheaper ones from distant cities.  Nothing
is of any importance but making cities for Man.'

'I know so little about him,' said the river, 'but I have a great deal of work to do--I have
all this water to send down to the sea; and then tomorrow or next day all the leaves of Autumn
will be coming this way.  It will be very beautiful.  The sea is a very, very wonderful place.
I know all about it; I have heard shepherd boys singing of it, and sometimes before a storm
the gulls come up.  It is a place all blue and shining and full of pearls, and has in it coral
islands and isles of spice, and storms and galleons and the bones of Drake.  The sea is much
greater than Man.  When I come to the sea, he will know that I have worked well for him.  But
I must hurry, for I have much to do.  This bridge delays me a little; some day I will carry
it away.'

'Oh, you must not do that,' said the road.

'Oh, not for a long time,' said the river.  'Some centuries perhaps--and I have much to do
besides.  There is my song to sing, for instance, and that alone is more beautiful than any
noise that Man makes.'

'All work is for Man,' said the road, 'and for the building of cities.  There is no beauty
or romance or mystery in the sea except for the men that sail abroad upon it, and for those
that stay at home and dream of them.  As for your song, it rings night and morning, year in,
year out, in the ears of men that are born in Wrellisford; at night it is part of their dreams,
at morning it is the voice of day, and so it becomes part of their souls.  But the song is
not beautiful in itself.  I take these men with your song in their souls up over the edge of
the valley and a long way off beyond, and I am a strong and dusty road up there, and they go
with your song in their souls and turn it into music and gladden cities. But nothing is the
Work of the World except work for Man.'

'I wish I was quite sure about the Work of the World,' said the stream; 'I wish I knew for
certain for whom we work.  I feel almost sure that it is for the sea.  He is very great and
beautiful.  I think that there can be no greater master than the sea.  I think that some day
he may be so full of romance and mystery and sound of sheep bells and murmur of mist-hidden
hills, which we streams shall have brought him, that there will be no more music or beauty
left in the world, and all the world will end; and perhaps the streams shall gather at the
last, we all together, to the sea.  Or perhaps the sea will give us at the last unto each one
his own again, giving back all that he has garnered in the years--the little petals of the
apple-blossom and the mourned ones of the rhododendron, and our old visions of the trees and
sky; so many memories have left the hills. But who may say? For who knows the tides of the sea?'

'Be sure that it is all for Man,' said the road.  'For Man and the making of cities.'

Something had come near on utterly silent feet.

'Peace, peace!' it said.  'You disturb the queenly night, who, having come into this valley,
is a guest in my dark halls.  Let us have an end to this discussion.'

It was the spider who spoke.

'The Work of the World is the making of cities and palaces.  But it is not for Man.  What is
Man? He only prepares my cities for me, and mellows them.  All his works are ugly, his richest
tapestries are coarse and clumsy.  He is a noisy idler.  He only protects me from mine enemy
the wind; and the beautiful work in my cities, the curving outlines and the delicate weavings,
is all mine.  Ten years to a hundred it takes to build a city, for five or six hundred more
it mellows, and is prepared for me; then I inhabit it, and hide away all that is ugly, and
draw beautiful lines about it to and fro. There is nothing so beautiful as cities and palaces;
they are the loveliest places in the world, because they are the stillest, and so most like
the stars.  They are noisy at first, for a little, before I come to them; they have ugly corners
not yet rounded off, and coarse tapestries, and then they become ready for me and my exquisite
work, and are quite silent and beautiful.  And there I entertain the regal nights when they
come there jewelled with stars, and all their train of silence, and regale them with costly
dust.  Already nods, in a city that I wot of, a lonely sentinel whose lords are dead, who grows
too old and sleepy to drive away the gathering silence that infests the streets; tomorrow I
go to see if he be still at his post.  For me Babylon was built, and rocky Tyre; and still
men build my cities!  All the Work of the World is the making of cities, and all of them I
inherit.'

The Doom of La Traviata

Evening stole up out of mysterious lands and came down on the streets of Paris, and the things
of the day withdrew themselves and hid away, and the beautiful city was strangely altered,
and with it the hearts of men.  And with lights and music, and in silence and in the dark,
the other life arose, the life that knows the night, and dark cats crept from the houses and
moved to silent places, and dim streets became haunted with dusk shapes.  At this hour in a
mean house, near to the Moulin Rouge, La Traviata died; and her death was brought to her by
her own sins, and not by the years of God.  But the soul of La Traviata drifted blindly about
the streets where she had sinned till it struck against the wall of Notre Dame de Paris. Thence
it rushed upwards, as the sea mist when it beats against a cliff, and streamed away to Paradise,
and was there judged.  And it seemed to me, as I watched from my place of dreaming, when La
Traviata came and stood before the seat of judgment, that clouds came rushing up from the far
Paradisal hills and gathered together over the head of God, and became one black cloud; and
the clouds moved swiftly as shadows of the night when a lantern is swung in the hand, and more
and more clouds rushed up, and ever more and more, and, as they gathered, the cloud a little
above the head of God became no larger, but only grew blacker and blacker.  And the halos of
the saints settled lower upon their heads and narrowed and became pale, and the singing of
the choirs of the seraphim faltered and sunk low, and the converse of the blessed suddenly
ceased.  Then a stern look came into the face of God, so that the seraphim turned away and
left Him, and the saints.  Then God commanded, and seven great angels rose up slowly through
the clouds that carpet Paradise, and there was pity on their faces, and their eyes were closed.
Then God pronounced judgment, and the lights of Paradise went out, and the azure crystal windows
that look towards the world, and the windows rouge and verd, became dark and colourless, and
I saw no more.  Presently the seven great angels came out by one of Heaven's gates and set
their faces Hellwards, and four of them carried the young soul of La Traviata, and one of them
went on before and one of them followed behind.  These six trod with mighty strides the long
and dusty road that is named the Way of the Damned.  But the seventh flew above them all the
way, and the light of the fires of Hell that was hidden from the six by the dust of that dreadful
road flared on the feathers of his breast.

Presently the seven angels, as they swept Hellwards, uttered speech.

'She is very young,' they said; and 'She is very beautiful,' they said; and they looked long
at the soul of La Traviata, looking not at the stains of sin, but at that portion of her soul
wherewith she had loved her sister a long while dead, who flitted now about an orchard on one
of Heaven's hills with a low sunlight ever on her face, who communed daily with the saints
when they passed that way going to bless the dead from Heaven's utmost edge.  And as they looked
long at the beauty of all that remained beautiful in her soul they said: 'It is but a young
soul;' and they would have taken her to one of Heaven's hills, and would there have given her
a cymbal and a dulcimer, but they knew that the Paradisal gates were clamped and barred against
La Traviata. Here,
always here. Dulce is, of all the sweets, dip the thinking of the idea God, worship, contemplate,
confused at his presence as dust grains or fragile feathered creatures we breeze, you can leave,
I'll stay here for the whole life. How happy I am! "

Pen paused and huddled with devout composure at the end of one of the thorns that girdled the front
of the golden Christ suspended on top of the altarpiece. Stopped singing, apagáronse lights.
  But into a great pink flower that was horrible and lovely grew the soul of La Traviata;
and it had in it two eyes but no eyelids, and it stared constantly into the faces of all the
passers-by that went along the dusty road to Hell; and the flower grew in the glare of the
lights of Hell, and withered but could not die; only, one petal turned back towards the heavenly
hills as an ivy leaf turns outwards to the day, and in the soft and silvery light of Paradise
it withered not nor faded, but heard at times the commune of the saints coming murmuring from
the distance, and sometimes caught the scent of orchards wafted from the heavenly hills, and
felt a faint breeze cool it every evening at the hour when the saints to Heaven's edge went
forth to bless the dead.

But the Lord arose with His sword, and scattered His disobedient angels as a thresher scatters
chaff.

On The Dry Land

Over the marshes hung the gorgeous night with all his wandering bands of nomad stars, and his
whole host of still ones blinked and watched.

Over the safe dry land to eastward, grey and cold, the first clear pallor of dawn was coming
up above the heads of the immortal gods.

Then, as they neared at last the safety of the dry land, Love looked at the man whom he had
led for so long through the marshes, and saw that his hair was white, for it was shining in
the pallor of the dawn.

Then they stepped together on to the land, and the old man sat down weary on the grass, for
they had wandered in the marshes for many years; and the light of the grey dawn widened above
the heads of the gods.

And Love said to the old man, 'I will leave you now.'

And the old man made no answer, but wept softly.

Then Love was grieved in his little careless heart, and he said: 'You must not be sorry that
I go, nor yet regret me, nor care for me at all.

'I am a very foolish child, and was never kind to you, nor friendly. I never cared for your
great thoughts, or for what was good in you, but perplexed you by leading you up and down the
perilous marshes. Much it
must be said, very much, but the saint himself hinders us because frowns a step forward, clutching
the key, turn ... Charro! and we close this chapter.

V

In schools.

Suspense. Suspense. Suspense. Suspense.
The poppy fields are filled, air butterfly, flower garden and the
University pumpkins.

Many raptors, however, are inflated by receiving
the outstanding note, as a sign that have left the classroom science
facts about wells, and so I believe the parents.  But my strength is great, and I have used it unjustly.  Often I pushed you
from the causeway through the marshes, and cared not if you drowned.  Often I mocked you, and
caused others to mock you.  And often I led you among those that hated me, and laughed when
they revenged themselves upon you.

'So weep not, for there is no kindness in my heart, but only murder and foolishness, and I
am no companion for one so wise as you, but am so frivolous and silly that I laughed at your
noble dreams and hindered all your deeds.  See now, you have found me out, and now you will
send me away, and here you will live at ease, and, undisturbed, have noble dreams of the immortal
gods.

'See now, here is dawn and safety, and there is darkness and peril.'

Still the old man wept softly.

Then Love said: 'Is it thus with you?' and his voice was grave now and quiet. The sermon
is about the childhood of Jesus, an issue that can not be prettier, and hearing the words the
priest, it seems that is the holy one to talk, because it boosts his finger and his mouth ajar express
very live issue to the floor. The
King has a great commitment to this wedding, and the Queen says she wants to be godmother of bodorrio.
Now she is. The lady is beside himself, and agonizes hidalguillo to invent a trick anyone
so frightening you out of the maze.  But Love went down to the night and to the marshes,
looking backward over his shoulder as he went, and smiling beautifully about his eyes.  And
in the marshes whereunto he went, in the midst of the gorgeous night, and under the wandering
bands of nomad stars, rose shouts of laughter and the sounds of the dance.

And after a while, with his face towards the morning, Death out of the marshes came up tall
and beautiful, and with a faint smile shadowy on his lips, and lifted in his arms the lonely
man, being gentle with him, and, murmuring with his low deep voice an ancient song, carried
him to the morning to the gods.

