The vitality of a fallacy is incalculable. Although the Drawer has been going many years, there
are still remaining people who believe that "things which are equal to the same thing are equal
to each other." This mathematical axiom, which is well enough in its place, has been extended
into the field of morals and social life, confused the perception of human relations, and raised
"hob," as the saying is, in political economy. We theorize and legislate as if people were
things. Most of the schemes of social reorganization are based on this fallacy. It always breaks
down in experience. A has two friends, B and C--to state it mathematically. A is equal to B,
and A is equal to C. A has for B and also for C the most cordial admiration and affection,
and B and C have reciprocally the same feeling for A. Such is the harmony that A cannot tell
which he is more fond of, B or C. And B and C are sure that A is the best friend of each. This
harmony, however, is not triangular. A makes the mistake of supposing that it is--having a
notion that things which are equal to the same thing are equal to each other--and he brings
B and C together. The result is disastrous. B and C cannot get on with each other. Regard for
A restrains their animosity, and they hypocritically pretend to like each other, but both wonder
what A finds so congenial in the other. The truth is that this personal equation, as we call
it, in each cannot be made the subject of mathematical calculation. Human relations will not
bend to it. And yet we keep blundering along as if they would. We are always sure, in our letter
of introduction, that this friend will be congenial to the other, because we are fond of both.
Sometimes this happens, but half the time we should be more successful in bringing people into
accord if we gave a letter of introduction to a person we do not know, to be delivered to one
we have never seen. On the face of it this is as absurd as it is for a politician to indorse
the application of a person he does not know for an office the duties of which he is unacquainted
with; but it is scarcely less absurd than the expectation that men and women can be treated
like mathematical units and equivalents. Upon the theory that they can, rest the present grotesque
schemes of Nationalism.

In saying all this the Drawer is well aware that it subjects itself to the charge of being
commonplace, but it is precisely the commonplace that this essay seeks to defend. Great is
the power of the commonplace. "My friends," says the preacher, in an impressive manner, "Alexander
died; Napoleon died; you will all die!" This profound remark, so true, so thoughtful, creates
a deep sensation. It is deepened by the statement that "man is a moral being." The profundity
of such startling assertions cows the spirit; they appeal to the universal consciousness, and
we bow to the genius that delivers them. "How true!" we exclaim, and go away with an enlarged
sense of our own capacity for the comprehension of deep thought. Our conceit is flattered.
Do we not like the books that raise us to the great level of the commonplace, whereon we move
with a sense of power? Did not Mr. Tupper, that sweet, melodious shepherd of the undisputed,
lead about vast flocks of sheep over the satisfying plain of mediocrity? Was there ever a greater
exhibition of power, while it lasted? How long did "The Country Parson" feed an eager world
with rhetorical statements of that which it already knew? The thinner this sort of thing is
spread out, the more surface it covers, of course. What is so captivating and popular as a
book of essays which gathers together and arranges a lot of facts out of histories and cyclopaedias,
set forth in the form of conversations that any one could have taken part in? Is not this book
pleasing because it is commonplace? And is this because we do not like to be insulted with
originality, or because in our experience it is only the commonly accepted which is true? The
statesman or the poet who launches out unmindful of these conditions will be likely to come
to grief in her generation. Will not the wise novelist seek to encounter the least intellectual
resistance?

Should one take a cynical view of mankind because he perceives this great power of the commonplace?
Not at all. He should recognize and respect this power. He may even say that it is this power
that makes the world go on as smoothly and contentedly as it does, on the whole. Woe to us,
is the thought of Carlyle, when a thinker is let loose in this world! He becomes a cause of
uneasiness, and a source of rage very often. But his power is limited. He filters through a
few minds, until gradually his ideas become commonplace enough to be powerful. We draw our
supply of water from reservoirs, not from torrents. Probably the man who first said that the
line of rectitude corresponds with the line of enjoyment was disliked as well as disbelieved.
But how impressive now is the idea that virtue and happiness are twins!

Perhaps it is true that the commonplace needs no defense, since everybody takes it in as naturally
as milk, and thrives on it. Beloved and read and followed is the writer or the preacher of
commonplace. But is not the sunshine common, and the bloom of May? Why struggle with these
things in literature and in life? Why not settle down upon the formula that to be platitudinous
is to be happy?

THE BURDEN OF CHRISTMAS

It would be the pity of the world to destroy it, because it would be next to impossible to
make another holiday as good as Christmas. Perhaps there is no danger, but the American people
have developed an unexpected capacity for destroying things; they can destroy anything. They
have even invented a phrase for it--running a thing into the ground. They have perfected the
art of making so much of a thing as to kill it; they can magnify a man or a recreation or an
institution to death. And they do it with such a hearty good-will and enjoyment. Their motto
is that you cannot have too much of a good thing. They have almost made funerals unpopular
by over-elaboration and display, especially what are called public funerals, in which an effort
is made to confer great distinction on the dead. So far has it been carried often that there
has been a reaction of popular sentiment and people have wished the man were alive. We prosecute
everything so vigorously that we speedily either wear it out or wear ourselves out on it, whether
it is a game, or a festival, or a holiday. We can use up any sport or game ever invented quicker
than any other people. We can practice anything, like a vegetable diet, for instance, to an
absurd conclusion with more vim than any other nation. This trait has its advantages; nowhere
else will a delusion run so fast, and so soon run up a tree--another of our happy phrases.
There is a largeness and exuberance about us which run even into our ordinary phraseology.
The sympathetic clergyman, coming from the bedside of a parishioner dying of dropsy, says,
with a heavy sigh, "The poor fellow is just swelling away."

Is Christmas swelling away? If it is not, it is scarcely our fault. Since the American nation
fairly got hold of the holiday--in some parts of the country, as in New England, it has been
universal only about fifty years--we have made it hum, as we like to say. We have appropriated
the English conviviality, the German simplicity, the Roman pomp, and we have added to it an
element of expense in keeping with our own greatness. Is anybody beginning to feel it a burden,
this sweet festival of charity and good-will, and to look forward to it with apprehension?
Is the time approaching when we shall want to get somebody to play it for us, like base-ball?
Anything that interrupts the ordinary flow of life, introduces into it, in short, a social
cyclone that upsets everything for a fortnight, may in time be as hard to bear as that festival
of housewives called housecleaning, that riot of cleanliness which men fear as they do a panic
in business. Taking into account the present preparations for Christmas, and the time it takes
to recover from it, we are beginning--are we not?--to consider it one of the most serious events
of modern life.

The Drawer is led into these observations out of its love for Christmas. It is impossible to
conceive of any holiday that could take its place, nor indeed would it seem that human wit
could invent another so adapted to humanity. The obvious intention of it is to bring together,
for a season at least, all men in the exercise of a common charity and a feeling of good-will,
the poor and the rich, the successful and the unfortunate, that all the world may feel that
in the time called the Truce of God the thing common to all men is the best thing in life.
How will it suit this intention, then, if in our way of exaggerated ostentation of charity
the distinction between rich and poor is made to appear more marked than on ordinary days?
Blessed are those that expect nothing. But are there not an increasing multitude of persons
in the United States who have the most exaggerated expectations of personal profit on Christmas
Day? Perhaps it is not quite so bad as this, but it is safe to say that what the children alone
expect to receive, in money value would absorb the national surplus, about which so much fuss
is made. There is really no objection to this--the terror of the surplus is a sort of nightmare
in the country--except that it destroys the simplicity of the festival, and belittles small
offerings that have their chief value in affection. And it points inevitably to the creation
of a sort of Christmas "Trust"--the modern escape out of ruinous competition. When the expense
of our annual charity becomes so great that the poor are discouraged from sharing in it, and
the rich even feel it a burden, there would seem to be no way but the establishment of neighborhood
"Trusts" in order to equalize both cost and distribution. Each family could buy a share according
to its means, and the division on Christmas Day would create a universal satisfaction in profit
sharing--that is, the rich would get as much as the poor, and the rivalry of ostentation would
be quieted. Perhaps with the money question a little subdued, and the female anxieties of the
festival allayed, there would be more room for the development of that sweet spirit of brotherly
kindness, or all-embracing charity, which we know underlies this best festival of all the ages.
Is this an old sermon? The Drawer trusts that it is, for there can be nothing new in the preaching
of simplicity.

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF WRITERS

