Like him he loved only the society of good men, and by his generous praise of such, illustrated
the Roman's beautiful aphorism, that no one can be envious of good deeds, who has confidence
in his own virtue. Like Cicero he kept himself unstained by social or domestic vices; preserved
serenity and cheerfulness; cherished habitual reverence for the Deity, and dwelt continually,
not on the mystic theology of the schools, but on the hopes of a better life. He lived in what
will be regarded as the virtuous age of his country, while Cicero was surrounded by an overwhelming
degeneracy. He had the light of Christianity for his guide; and its sublime motives as incitements
to virtue: while Cicero had only the confused instructions of the Grecian schools, and saw
nothing certainly attainable but present applause and future fame. In moral courage, therefore,
he excelled his model and rivalled Cato. But Cato was a visionary, who insisted upon his right
to act always without reference to the condition of mankind, as he should have acted in Plato's
imaginary Republic. Adams stood in this respect midway between the impracticable stoic and
the too flexible academician. He had no occasion to say, as the Grecian orator did, that if
he had sometimes acted contrary to himself, he had never acted contrary to the Republic; but
he might justly have said, as the noble Roman did, "I have rendered to my country all the great
services which she was willing to receive at my hands, and I have never harbored a thought
concerning her that was not divine."

More fortunate than Cicero, who fell a victim of civil wars which he could not avert, Adams
was permitted to linger on the earth, until the generations of that future age, for whom he
had lived and to whom he had appealed from the condemnation of contemporaries, came up before
the curtain which had shut out his sight, and pronounced over him, as he was sinking into the
grave, their judgment of approval and benediction.

The distinguished characteristics of his life were BENEFICENT LABOR and PERSONAL CONTENTMENT.
He never sought wealth, but devoted himself to the service of mankind. Yet, by the practice
of frugality and method, he secured the enjoyment of dealing forth continually no stinted charities,
and died in affluence. He never solicited place or preferment, and had no partizan combinations
or even connections; yet he received honors which eluded the covetous grasp of those who formed
parties, rewarded friends and proscribed enemies; and he filled a longer period of varied and
distinguished service than ever fell to the lot of any other citizen. In every stage of this
progress he was CONTENT. He was content to be president, minister, representative, or citizen.

Stricken in the midst of this service, in the very act of rising to debate, he fell into the
arms of conscript fathers of the Republic. A long lethargy supervened and oppressed his senses.
Nature rallied the wasting powers, on the verge of the grave, for a very brief period. But
it was long enough for him. The rekindled eye showed that the re-collected mind was clear,
calm, and vigorous. His weeping family, and his sorrowing compeers were there. He surveyed
the scene and knew at once its fatal import. He had left no duty unperformed; he had no wish
unsatisfied; no ambition unattained; no regret, no sorrow, no fear, no remorse. He could not
shake off the dews of death that gathered on his brow. He could not pierce the thick shades
that rose up before him. But he knew that eternity lay close by the shores of time. He knew
that his Redeemer lived. Eloquence, even in that hour, inspired him with his ancient sublimity
of utterance. "THIS," said the dying man. "THIS IS THE END OF EARTH." He paused for a moment,
and then added, "I AM CONTENT." Angels might well draw aside the curtains of the skies to look
down on such a scene--a scene that approximated even to that scene of unapproachable sublimity,
not to be recalled without reverence, when, in mortal agony, ONE who spake as never man spake,
said, "IT IS FINISHED!"

Only two years after the birth of John Quincy Adams, there appeared on an island in the Mediterranean
sea, a human spirit newly born, endowed with equal genius, without the regulating qualities
of justice and benevolence which Adams possessed in an eminent degree. A like career opened
to both--born like Adams, a subject of a king--the child of more genial skies, like him, became
in early life a patriot and a citizen of a new and great Republic. Like Adams he lent his service
to the State in precocious youth, and in its hour of need, and won its confidence. But unlike
Adams he could not wait the dull delays of slow and laborious, but sure advancement. He sought
power by the hasty road that leads through fields of carnage, and he became, like Adams, a
supreme magistrate, a Consul. But there were other Consuls. He was not content. He thrust them
aside, and was Consul alone. Consular power was too short. He fought new battles, and was Consul
for life. But power, confessedly derived from the people, must be exercised in obedience to
their will, and must be resigned to them again, at least in death. He was not content. He desolated
Europe afresh, subverted the Republic, imprisoned the patriarch who presided over Rome's comprehensive
See, and obliged him to pour on his head the sacred oil that made the persons of kings divine,
and their right to reign indefeasible. He was an Emperor. But he saw around him a mother, brothers
and sisters, not ennobled; whose humble state reminded him, and the world, that he was born
a plebeian; and he had no heir to wait impatient for the imperial crown. He scourged the earth
again, and again fortune smiled on him even in his wild extravagance. He bestowed kingdoms
and principalities upon his kindred--put away the devoted wife of his youthful days, and another,
a daughter of Hapsburgh's imperial house, joyfully accepted his proud alliance. Offspring gladdened
his anxious sight; a diadem was placed on its infant brow, and it received the homage of princes,
even in its cradle. Now he was indeed a monarch--a legitimate monarch--a monarch by divine
appointment--the first of an endless succession of monarchs. But there were other monarchs
who held sway in the earth. He was not content. He would reign with his kindred alone. He gathered
new and greater armies--from his own land--from subjugated lands. He called forth the young
and brave--one from every household--from the Pyrenees to Zuyder Zee--from Jura to the ocean.
He marshalled them into long and majestic columns, and went forth to seize that universal dominion,
which seemed almost within his grasp. But ambition had tempted fortune too far. The nations
of the earth resisted, repelled, pursued, surrounded him. The pageant was ended. The crown
fell from his presumptuous head.  The wife who had wedded him in his pride, forsook him when
the hour of fear came upon him. His child was ravished from his sight. His kinsmen were degraded
to their first estate, and he was no longer Emperor, nor Consul, nor General, nor even a citizen,
but an exile and a prisoner, on a lonely island, in the midst of the wild Atlantic. Discontent
attended him there. The wayward man fretted out a few long years of his yet unbroken manhood,
looking off at the earliest dawn and in evening's latest twilight, towards that distant world
that had only just eluded his grasp. His heart corroded. Death came, not unlooked for, though
it came even then unwelcome. He was stretched on his bed within the fort which constituted
his prison. A few fast and faithful friends stood around, with the guards who rejoiced that
the hour of relief from long and wearisome watching was at hand. As his strength wasted away,
delirium stirred up the brain from its long and inglorious inactivity. The pageant of ambition
returned. He was again a Lieutenant, a General, a Consul, an Emperor of France. He filled again
the throne of Charlemagne. His kindred pressed around him again, re-invested with the pompous
pageantry of royalty. The daughter of the long line of kings again stood proudly by his side,
and the sunny face of his child shone out from beneath the diadem that encircled its flowing
locks. The marshals of the Empire awaited his command. The legions of the old guard were in
the field, their scarred faces rejuvenated, and their ranks, thinned in many battles, replenished,
Russia, Prussia, Austria, Denmark and England, gathered their mighty hosts to give him battle.
Once more he mounted his impatient charger, and rushed forth to conquest. He waved his sword
aloft, and cried "TETE D'ARMEE." The feverish vision broke--the mockery was ended. The silver
cord was loosed, and the warrior fell back upon his bed a lifeless corpse. THIS WAS THE END
OF EARTH. THE CORSICAN WAS NOT CONTENT.

STATESMEN AND CITIZENS! the contrast suggests its own impressive moral.

THE END.