It is thought that they do not now steal many diamonds successfully. They used to swallow them,
and find other ways of concealing them, but the white man found ways of beating their various
games.  One man cut his leg and shoved a diamond into the wound, but even that project did
not succeed.  When they find a fine large diamond they are more likely to report it than to
steal it, for in the former case they get a reward, and in the latter they are quite apt to
merely get into trouble.  Some years ago, in a mine not owned by the De Beers, a black found
what has been claimed to be the largest diamond known to the world's history; and, as a reward
he was released from service and given a blanket, a horse, and five hundred dollars.  It made
him a Vanderbilt.  He could buy four wives, and have money left.  Four wives are an ample support
for a native.  With four wives he is wholly independent, and need never do a stroke of work again.

That great diamond weighs 97l carats.  Some say it is as big as a piece of alum, others say
it is as large as a bite of rock candy, but the best authorities agree that it is almost exactly
the size of a chunk of ice. But those details are not important; and in my opinion not trustworthy.
It has a flaw in it, otherwise it would be of incredible value.  As it is, it is held to be
worth $2,000,000.  After cutting it ought to be worth from $5,000,000 to $8,000,000, therefore
persons desiring to save money should buy it now.  It is owned by a syndicate, and apparently
there is no satisfactory market for it.  It is earning nothing; it is eating its head off.
Up to this time it has made nobody rich but the native who found it.

He found it in a mine which was being worked by contract.  That is to say, a company had bought
the privilege of taking from the mine 5,000,000 carloads of blue-rock, for a sum down and a
royalty.  Their speculation had not paid; but on the very day that their privilege ran out
that native found the $2,000,000-diamond and handed it over to them.  Even the diamond culture
is not without its romantic episodes.

The Koh-i-Noor is a large diamond, and valuable; but it cannot compete in these matters with
three which--according to legend--are among the crown trinkets of Portugal and Russia.  One
of these is held to be worth $20,000,000; another, $25,000,000, and the third something over
$28,000,000.

Those are truly wonderful diamonds, whether they exist or not; and yet they are of but little
importance by comparison with the one wherewith the Boer wagoner chocked his wheel on that
steep grade as heretofore referred to.  In Kimberley I had some conversation with the man who
saw the Boer do that--an incident which had occurred twenty-seven or twenty-eight years before
I had my talk with him.  He assured me that that diamond's value could have been over a billion
dollars, but not under it. I believed him, because he had devoted twenty-seven years to hunting
for it, and was, in a position to know.

A fitting and interesting finish to an examination of the tedious and laborious and costly
processes whereby the diamonds are gotten out of the deeps of the earth and freed from the
base stuffs which imprison them is the visit to the De Beers offices in the town of Kimberley,
where the result of each day's mining is brought every day, and, weighed, assorted, valued,
and deposited in safes against shipping-day.  An unknown and unaccredited person cannot, get
into that place; and it seemed apparent from the generous supply of warning and protective
and prohibitory signs that were posted all about, that not even the known and accredited can
steal diamonds there without inconvenience.

