General Seymour Stukeley sent for a certain Sergeant Havlan (once a trooper in his own regiment),
rough-rider, swordsman, and boxer, now a professional trainer, and bade him see that the boy
learned all he could teach him of arms and horsemanship, boxing, swimming, and general physical
prowess and skill. Lucille and Haddon Berners were to join in to the extent to which their
age and sex permitted.

The General intended his great-nephew to be worthy of his Stukeley blood, and to enter Sandhurst
a finished man-at-arms and horseman, and to join his regiment, Cavalry, of course, with nothing
much to learn of sword, lance, rifle, revolver, and horse.

Sergeant Havlan soon found that he had little need to begin at the beginning with Damocles
de Warrenne in the matter of riding, fencing or boxing, and was unreasonably annoyed thereat.

In time, it became the high ambition and deep desire of Dam to overcome Sergeant Havlan's son
in battle with the gloves. As young Havlan was a year his senior, a trained infant prodigy,
and destined for the Prize Ring, there was plenty for him to learn and to do.

With foil or sabre the boy was beneath Dam's contempt.

Daily the children were in Sergeant Havlan's charge for riding and physical drill, Dam getting
an extra hour in the evening for the more manly and specialized pursuits suitable to his riper
years.

He and Lucille loved it all, and the Haddock bitterly loathed it.

Until Miss Smellie came Dam was a happy boy--but for queer sudden spasms of terror of Something
unknown; and, after her arrival, he would have been well content could he have been assured
of an early opportunity of attending her obsequies and certain of a long-postponed resurrection;
well content, and often wildly happy (with Lucille) ... but for the curious undefinable fear
of Something ... Something about which he had the most awful dreams ... Something in a blue
room with a mud floor. Something that seemed at times to move beneath his foot, making his
blood freeze, his knees smite together, the sunlight turn to darkness....

CHAPTER IV.

THE SWORD AND THE SOUL.

One of the very earliest of all Dam's memories in after life--for in a few years he forgot
India absolutely--was of the Sword (that hung on the oak-panelled wall of the staircase by
the portrait of a cavalier), and of a gentle, sad-eyed lady, Auntie Yvette, who used to say:--

"Yes, sonny darling, it is more than two-hundred-and-fifty years old. It belonged to Sir Seymour
Stukeley, who carried the King's Standard at Edgehill and died with that sword in his hand
... You shall wear a sword some day."

(He did--with a difference.)

The sword grew into the boy's life and he would rather have owned it than the mechanical steamboat
with real brass cannon for which he prayed to God so often, so earnestly, and with such faith.
On his seventh birthday he preferred a curious request, which had curious consequences.

"Can I take the sword to bed with me to-night, Dearest, as it is my birthday?" he begged. "I
won't hurt it."

And the sword was taken down from the oak-panelled wall, cleaned, and laid on the bed in his room.

"Promise you will not try to take it out of the sheath, sonny darling," said the gentle, sad-eyed
lady as she kissed him "Good night".

"I promise, Dearest," replied the boy, and she knew that she need have no fear.

He fell asleep fondling and cuddling the sword that had pierced the hearts of many men and
defended the honour of many ancestors, and dreamed, with far greater vividness and understanding,
the dream he had so often dreamt before.

Frequently as he dreamed it during his chequered career, it was henceforth always most vivid
and real. It never never varied in the slightest detail, and he generally dreamed it on the
night before some eventful, dangerful day on which he risked his life or fought for it.

Of the early dreamings, of course, he understood little, but while he was still almost a boy
he most fully understood the significance of every word, act, and detail of the marvellous,
realistic dream.

It began with a view of a camp of curious little bell-tents about which strode remarkable,
big-booted, long-haired, bedizened men--looking strangely effeminate and strangely fierce,
with their feathered hats, curls, silk sashes, velvet coats, and with their long swords, cruel
faces, and savage oaths.

Some wore steel breastplates, like that of the suit of armour in the hall, and steel helmets.
The sight of the camp thrilled the boy in his dream, and yet he knew that he had seen it all
before actually, and in real life--in some former life.

Beside one of a small cluster of tents that stood well apart from the rest sat a big man who
instantly reminded the boy of his dread "Grandfather," whom he would have loved to have loved
had he been given the chance.

The big man was even more strangely attired than those others who clumped and clattered about
the lower part of the camp.

Fancy a great big strong man with long curls, a lace collar, and a velvet coat--like a kid
going to a party!

The velvet coat had the strangest sleeves, too--made to button to the elbow and full of slits
that seemed to have been mended underneath with blue silk. There was a regular pattern of these
silk-mended slits about the body of the coat, too, and funny silk-covered buttons.

On his head the man had a great floppy felt hat with a huge feather--a hat very like one that
Dearest wore, only bigger.

One of his long curls was tied with a bow of ribbon--like young Lucille wore--and the boy felt
quite uncomfortable as he noted it. A grown man--the silly ass! And, yes! he had actually got
lace round the bottoms of his quaint baggy knickerbockers--as well as lace cuffs!

The boy could see it, where one of the great boots had sagged down below the knee.

Extraordinary boots they were, too. Nothing like "Grumper's" riding-boots. They were yellowish
in colour, and dull, not nicely polished, and although the square-toed, ugly foot part looked
solid as a house, the legs were more like wrinkled leather stockings, and so long that the
pulled-up one came nearly to the hip.

Spurs had made black marks on the yellow ankles, and saddle and stirrup-leather had rubbed
the legs....

And a sash! Whoever heard of a grown-up wearing a sash? It was a great blue silk thing, wound
round once or twice, and tied with a great bow, the ends of which hung down in front.

Of all the Pip-squeaks!

And yet the big man's face was not that of a Pip-squeak--far from it. It was very like Grumper's
in fact.

The boy liked the face. It was strong and fierce, thin and clean-cut--marred only, in his estimation,
by the funny little tuft of hair on the lower lip. He liked the wavy, rough, up-turned moustache,
but not that silly tuft. How nice he would look with his hair cut, his lower lip shaved, and
his ridiculous silks, velvet, and lace exchanged for a tweed shooting-suit or cricketing-flannels!
How Grumper, Father, Major Decies, and even Khodadad Khan and the sepoys would have laughed
at the get-up. Nay, they would have blushed for the fellow--a Sahib, a gentleman--to tog himself
up so!

The boy also liked the man's voice when he turned towards the tent and called:--

"Lubin, you drunken dog, come hither," a call which brought forth a servant-like person, who,
by reason of his clean-shaven face and red nose, reminded the boy of Pattern the coachman.

He wore a dark cloth suit, cotton stockings, shoes that had neither laces nor buttons, but
fastened with a kind of strap and buckle, and, queer creature, a big Eton collar!

"Sword and horse, rascal," said the gentleman, "and warn Digby for duty. Bring me wine and
a manchet of bread."

The man bowed and re-entered the tent, to emerge a moment later bearing the Sword.

How the cut-steel hilt sparkled and shone! How bright and red the leather scabbard--now black,
dull, cracked and crumbling. But it was unmistakeably the Sword.

It hung from a kind of broad cross-belt and was attached to it by several parallel buckled
straps--not like Father's Sam Browne belt at all.

As the gentleman rose from his stool (he must have been over six feet in height) Lubin passed
the cross-belt over his head and raised left arm so that it rested on his right shoulder, and
the Sword hung from hip to heel.

To the boy it had always seemed such a huge, unwieldy thing. At this big man's side it looked--just
right.

Lubin then went off at a trot to where long lines of bay horses pawed the ground, swished their
tails, tossed their heads, and fidgeted generally....

From a neighbouring tent came the sounds of a creaking camp-bed, two feet striking the ground
with violence, and a prodigious, prolonged yawn.

A voice then announced that all parades should be held in Hell, and that it was better to be
dead than damned. Why should gentlemen drill on a fine evening while the world held wine and women?

After a brief space, occupied with another mighty yawn, it loudly and tunefully requested some
person or persons unknown to superintend its owner's obsequies.

"May it do so soon," observed the tall gentleman distinctly.

"What ho, without there! That you, Seymour, lad?" continued the voice. "Tarry a moment. Where's
that cursed ..." and sounds of hasty search among jingling accoutrements were followed by a
snatch of song of which the boy instantly recognized the words. He had often heard Dearest
sing them.

Lubin appeared, bearing a funny, fat, black bottle, a black cup (both appeared to be of leather),
and a kind of leaden plate on which was a small funnily-shaped loaf of bread.

"'Tis well you want none," observed the tall gentleman, "I had asked you to help me crush a
flask else," and on the word the singer emerged from the tent.

"Jest not on solemn subjects, Seymour," he said soberly, "Wine may carry me over one more pike-parade....
Good lad.... Here's to thee.... Why should gentlemen drill?... I came to fight for the King,
not to ... But, isn't this thy day for de Warrenne? Oh, ten million fiends! Plague and pest!
And I cannot see thee stick him, Seymour ..." and the speaker dashed the black drinking-vessel
violently on the ground, having carefully emptied it.

The boy did not much like him.

His lace collar was enormous and his black velvet coat was embroidered all over with yellow
silk designs, flowers, and patterns. It was like the silly mantel-borders and things that Mrs.
Pont, the housekeeper, did in her leisure time. ("Cruel-work" she called it, and the boy quite
agreed.)

This man's face was pink and fair, his hair golden.

"Warn him not of the hilt-thrust, Seymour, lad," he said suddenly. "Give it him first--for
a sneering, bullying, taverning, chambering knave."

The tall gentleman glanced at his down-flung cup, raised his eyebrows, and drank from the bottle.

"Such would annoy you, Hal, of course," he murmured.

A man dressed in what appeared to be a striped football jersey under a leather waistcoat and
steel breast-plate, high boots and a steel helmet led up a great horse.

The boy loved the horse. It was very like "Fire".

The gentleman (called Seymour) patted it fondly, stroked his nose, and gave it a piece of his
bread.

"Well, Crony Long-Face?" he said fondly.

He then put his left foot in the great box-stirrup and swung himself into the saddle--a very
different kind of saddle from those with which the boy was familiar.

It reminded him of Circuses and the Lord Mayor's Show. It was big enough for two and there
was a lot of velvet and stuff about it and a fine gold C.R.--whatever that might mean--on a
big pretty cloth under it (perhaps the gentleman's initials were C.R. just as his own were
D. de W. and on some of his things).

The great fat handle of a great fat pistol stuck up on each side of the front of the saddle.

"Follow," said the gentleman to the iron-bound person, and moved off at a walk towards a road
not far distant.

"Stap him! Spit him, Seymour," called the pink-faced man, "and warn him not of the hilt-thrust."

As he passed the corner of the camp, two men with great axe-headed spear things performed curious
evolutions with their cumbersome weapons, finally laying the business ends of them on the ground
as the gentleman rode by.

He touched his hat to them with his switch.

Continuing for a mile or so, at a walk, he entered a dense coppice and dismounted.

"Await me," he said to his follower, gave him the curb-rein, and walked on to an open glade
a hundred yards away.

(It was a perfect spot for Red Indians, Smugglers, Robin Hood, Robinson Crusoe or any such
game, the boy noted.)

Almost at the same time, three other men entered the clearing, two together, and one from a
different quarter.

"For the hundredth time, Seymour, lad, mention not the hilt-thrust, as you love me and the
King," said this last one quietly as he approached the gentleman; and then the two couples
behaved in a ridiculous manner with their befeathered hats, waving them in great circles as
they bowed to each other, and finally laying them on their hearts before replacing them.

"Mine honour is my guide, Will," answered the gentleman called Seymour, somewhat pompously
the boy considered, though he did not know the word.

Sir Seymour then began to remove the slashed coat and other garments until he stood in his
silk stockings, baggy knickerbockers, and jolly cambric shirt--nice and loose and free at the
neck as the boy thought.

He rolled up his right sleeve, drew the sword, and made one or two passes--like Sergeant Havlan
always did before he began fencing.

The other two men, meantime, had been behaving somewhat similarly--talking together earnestly
and one of them undressing.

The one who did this was a very powerful-looking man and the arm he bared reminded the boy
of that of a "Strong Man" he had seen recently at Monksmead Fair, in a tent, and strangely
enough his face reminded him of that of his own Father.

He had a nasty face though, the boy considered, and looked like a bounder because he had pimples,
a swelly nose, a loud voice, and a swanky manner. The boy disapproved of him wholly. It was
like his cheek to resemble Father, as well as to have the same name.

His companion came over to the gentleman called Will, carrying the strong man's bared sword
and, bowing ridiculously (with his hat, both hands, and his feet) said:--

"Shall we measure, Captain Ormonde Delorme?"

Captain Delorme then took the sword from Sir Seymour, bowed as the other had done, and handed
him the sword with a mighty flourish, hilt first.

It proved to be half an inch shorter than the other, and Captain Delorme remarked that his
Principal would waive that.

He and the strong man's companion then chose a spot where the grass was very short and smooth,
where there were no stones, twigs or inequalities, and where the light of the setting sun fell
sideways upon the combatants--who tip-toed gingerly, and rather ridiculously, in their stockinged
feet, to their respective positions. Facing each other, they saluted with their swords and
then stood with the right arm pointing downwards and across the body so that the hilt of the
sword was against the right thigh and the blade directed to the rear.

"One word, Sir Matthew de Warrenne," said Sir Seymour as they paused in this attitude. "If
my point rests for a second on your hilt you are a dead man."

Sir Matthew laughed in an ugly manner and replied:--

"And what is your knavish design now, Sir Seymour Stukeley?"

"My design was to warn you of an infallible trick of fence, Sir Matthew. It now is to kill
you--for the insult, and on behalf of ... your own unhappy daughter."

The other yawned and remarked to his friend:--

"I have a parade in half an hour."

"On guard," cried the person addressed, drawing his sword and striking an attitude.

"Play," cried Captain Delorme, doing similarly.

Both principals crouched somewhat, held their swords horizontal, with point to the adversary's
breast and hilt drawn back, arm sharply bent--for both, it appeared, had perfected the Art
of Arts in Italy.

These niceties escaped the boy in his earlier dreamings of the dream--but the time came when
he could name every pass, parry, invitation, and riposte.

The strong man suddenly threw his sword-hand high and towards his left shoulder, keeping his
sword horizontal, and exposing the whole of his right side.

Sir Seymour lunged hard for his ribs, beneath the right arm-pit and, as the other's sword swooped
down to catch his, twist it over, and riposte, he feinted, cleared the descending sword, and
thrust at the throat. A swift ducking crouch let the sword pass over the strong man's head,
and only a powerful French circular parry saved the life of Sir Seymour Stukeley.

As the boy realized later, he fought Italian in principle, and used the best of French parries,
ripostes, and tricks, upon occasion--and his own perfected combination of the two schools made
him, according to Captain Delorme, the best fencer in the King's army. So at least the Captain
said to the other second, as they amicably chatted while their friends sought to slay each
other before their hard, indifferent-seeming eyes.

To the boy their talk conveyed little--as yet.

The duellists stepped back as the "phrase" ended, and then Sir Seymour gave an "invitation,"
holding his sword-arm wide to the right of his body. Sir Matthew lunged, his sword was caught,
carried out to the left, and held there as Sir Seymour's blade slid inward along it. Just in
time, Sir Matthew's inward pressure carried Sir Seymour's sword clear to the right again. Sir
Matthew disengaged over, and, as the sudden release brought Sir Seymour's sword springing in,
he thrust under that gentleman's right arm and scratched his side.

As he recovered his sword he held it for a moment with the point raised toward Sir Seymour's
face. Instantly Sir Seymour's point tinkled on his hilt, and Captain Delorme murmured "Finis"
beneath his breath.

Sir Stukeley Seymour's blade shot in, Sir Matthew's moved to parry, and the point of the advancing
sword flickered under his hand, turned upward, and pierced his heart.

"Yes," said Captain Delorme, as the stricken man fell, "if he parries outward the point goes
under, if he anticipates a feint it comes straight in, and if he parries a lunge-and-feint-under,
he gets feint-over before he can come up. I have never seen Stukeley miss when once he rests
on the hilt. Exit de Warrenne--and Hell the worse for it----" and the boy awoke.

He kissed the sword and fell asleep again.

One day, when receiving his morning fencing and boxing lessons of Sergeant Havlan, he astonished
that warrior (and made a bitter enemy of him) by warning him against allowing his blade to
rest on the Sergeant's hilt, and by hitting him clean and fair whenever it was allowed to happen.
Also, by talking of "the Italian school of fence" and of "invitations"--the which were wholly
outside the fencing-philosophy of the French-trained swordsman. At the age of fifteen the boy
was too good for the man who had been the best that Aldershot had known, who had run a salle
d'armes for years, and who was much sought by ambitious members of the Sword Club.

The Sword, from the day of that newly vivid dream, became to the boy what his Symbol is to
the religious fanatic, and he was content to sit and stare at it, musing, for hours.

The sad-eyed, sentimental lady encouraged him and spoke of Knights, Chivalry, Honour, Noblesse
Oblige, and Ideals such as the nineteenth century knew not and the world will never know again.

"Be a real and true Knight, sonny darling," she would say, "and live to help. Help women--God
knows they need it. And try to be able to say at the end of your life, 'I have never made a
woman weep'. Yes--be a Knight and have 'Live pure, Speak true, Right wrong' on your shield.
Be a Round Table Knight and ride through the world bravely. Your dear Father was a great swordsman.
You may have the sword down and kiss it, the first thing every morning--and you must salute
it every night as you go up to bed. You shall wear a sword some day."

(Could the poor lady but have foreseen!)

She also gave him over-copiously and over-early of her simple, fervent, vague Theology, and
much Old and New Testament History, with the highest and noblest intentions--and succeeded
in implanting a deep distrust and dislike of "God" in his acutely intelligent mind.

To a prattling baby, Mother should be God enough--God and all the angels and paradise in one
... (but he had never known a mother and Nurse Beaton had ever been more faithfully conscientious
in deed than tenderly loving in manner).

She filled his soul with questionings and his mouth with questions which she could not answer,
and which he answered for himself. The questions sometimes appalled her.

If God so loved the world, why did He let the Devil loose in it?

If God could do anything, why didn't He lay the Devil out with one hand?

If He always rewarded the Good and punished the Bad, why was Dearest so unhappy, and drunken
Poacher Iggulsby so very gay and prosperously naughty?

He knew too that his dead Father had not been "good," for he heard servant-talk, and terrible
old "Grandfather" always forgot that "Little Pitchers have Long Ears".

If God always answered devout and faith-inspired prayer, why did He not

1. Save Caiaphas the cat when earnestly prayed for--having been run over by Pattern in the
dog-cart, coming out of the stables?

2. Send the mechanical steam-boat so long and earnestly prayed for, with Faith and Belief?

3. Help the boy to lead a higher and a better life, to eat up his crusts and fat as directed,
to avoid chivvying the hens, inking his fingers, haunting the stables, stealing green apples
in the orchard, tearing his clothes, and generally doing evil with fire, water, mud, stones
and other tempting and injurious things?

And was it entirely decent of God to be eternally spying on a fellow, as appeared to be His
confirmed habit?

As for that awful heart-rending Crucifixion, was that the sort of thing for a Father to look
on at.... As bad as that brutal old Abraham with Isaac his son ... were all "Good" Fathers
like that ...?

And nightmare dreams of Hell--a Hell in which there was a Snake--wrought no improvement.

And the Bible! How strangely and dully they talked, and what people! That nasty Jacob and Esau
business, those horrid Israelites, the Unfaithful Steward; the Judge who let himself be pestered
into action; those poor unfortunate swine that were made to rush violently down the steep place
into the sea; Ananias and Sapphira. No--not a nice book at all.

The truth is that Theology, at the age of seven, is not commendable--setting aside the question
of whether (at any age) Theology is a web of words, ritual, dogma, tradition, invention, shibboleth;
a web originally spun by interested men to obscure God from their dupes.

So the boy worshipped Dearest and distrusted and disliked the God she gave him, a big sinister
bearded Man who hung spread-eagled above the world, covering the entire roof of the Universe,
and watched, watched, watched, with unwinking, all-seeing eye, and remembered with unforgetting,
unrelenting mind. Cruel. Ungentlemanly. Jealous! Cold.

Also the boy fervently hoped it might never be his lot to go to Heaven--a shockingly dreary
place where it was always Sunday and one must, presumably, be very quiet except when singing
hymns. A place tenanted by white-robed Angels, unsympathetic towards dirty-faced little sinners
who tore their clothes. Angels, cold, superior, unhuggable, haughty, given to ecstatic throes,
singers of Hallelujah and other silly words--always praising.

How he loathed and dreaded the idea of Dearest being an Angel! Fancy sweet Dearest or his own
darling Lucille with silly wings (like a beastly goose or turkey in dear old Cook's larder),
with a long trumpet, perhaps, in a kind of night-gown, flying about the place, it wasn't decent
at all--Dearest and Lucille, whom he adored and hugged--unsympathetic, cold, superior, unhuggable,
haughty; and the boy who was very, very tender-hearted, would throw his arms round Dearest's
neck and hug and hug and hug, for he abhorred the thought of her becoming a beastly angel.

Surely, if God knew His business, Dearest would be always happy and bright and live ever so
long, and be ever so old, forty years and more.

And Dearest, fearing that her idolized boy might grow up a man like--well, like "Grumper" had
been--hard, quarrelsome, adventurous, flippant, wicked, pleasure-loving, drunken, Godless ...
redoubled her efforts to Influence-the-child's-mind-for-good by means of the Testaments and
Theology, the Covenant, the Deluge, Miracles, the Immaculate Conception, the Last Supper, the
Resurrection, Pentecost, Creeds, Collects, Prayers.

And the boy's mind weighed these things deliberately, pondered them, revolted--and rejected
them one and all.

Dearest had been taken in....

He said the prayers she taught him mechanically, and when he felt the need of real prayer--(as
he did when he had dreamed of the Snake)--he always began, "If you are there, God, and are
a good, kind God" ... and concluded, "Yours sincerely, Damocles de Warrenne".

He got but little comfort, however, for his restless and logical mind asked:--

"If God knows best and will surely do what is best, why bother Him? And if He does not and
will not, why bother yourself?"

But Dearest succeeded, at any rate, in filling his young soul with a love of beauty, romance,
high adventure, honour, and all physical, mental, and moral cleanliness.

She taught him to use his imagination, and she made books a necessity. She made him a gentleman
in soul--as distinct from a gentleman in clothes, pocket, or position.

She gave him a beautiful veneration for woman that no other woman was capable of destroying--though
one or two did their best. Then the sad-eyed lady was superseded and her professional successor,
Miss Smellie, the governess, finding the boy loved the Sword, asked Grumper to lock it away
for the boy's Good.

Also she got Grumper to dismiss Nurse Beaton for impudence and not "knowing her place".

But Damocles entered into an offensive and defensive alliance with Lucille, on whom he lavished
the whole affection of his deeply, if undemonstratively, affectionate nature, and the two "hunted
in couples," sinned and suffered together, pooled their resources and their wits, found consolation
in each other when harried by Miss Smellie, spent every available moment in each other's society
and, like the Early Christians, had all things in common.

On birthdays, "high days and holidays" he would ask "Grumper" to let him have the Sword for
an hour or two, and would stand with it in his hand, rapt, enthralled, ecstatic. How strange
it made one feel! How brave, and anxious to do fine deeds. He would picture himself bearing
an unconscious Lucille in his left arm through hostile crowds, while with the Sword he thrust
and hewed, parried and guarded.... Who could fear anything with the Sword in his hand, the
Sword of the Dream! How glorious to die wielding it, wielding it in a good cause ... preferably
on behalf of Lucille, his own beloved little pal, staunch, clever, and beautiful. And he told
Lucille tales of the Sword and of how he loved it!

CHAPTER V.

LUCILLE.

"If you drinks a drop more, Miss Lucy, you'll just go like my pore young sister goed," observed
Cook in a warning voice, as Lucille paused to get her second wind for the second draught.

(Lucille had just been tortured at the stake by Sioux and Blackfeet--thirsty work on a July
afternoon.)

"And how did she go, Cookie-Bird--Pop?" inquired Lucille politely, with round eyes, considering
over the top of the big lemonade-flagon as it rose again to her determined little mouth.

"No, Miss Lucy," replied Cook severely. "Pop she did not. She swole ... swole and swole."

"You mean 'swelled,' Cookoo," corrected Lucille, inclined to be a little didactic and corrective
at the age of ten.

"Well, she were my sister after all, Miss Lucy," retorted Cook, "and perhaps I may, or may
not, know what she done. I say she swole--and what is more she swole clean into a dropsy. All
along of drinking water.... Drops of water--Dropsy."

"Never drink water," murmured Dam, absentmindedly annexing, and pocketing, an apple.

"Ah, water, but you see this is lemonade," countered Lucille. "Home-made, too, and not--er--gusty.
It doesn't make you go----" and here it is regrettable to have to relate that Lucille made
a shockingly realistic sound, painfully indicative of the condition of one who has imbibed
unwisely and too well of a gas-impregnated liquor.

"No more does water in my experiants," returned Cook, "and I was not allooding to wulgarity,
Miss Lucy, which you should know better than to do such. My pore young sister's systerm turned
watery and they tapped her at the last. All through drinking too much water, which lemonade
ain't so very different either, be it never so 'ome-made.... Tapped 'er they did--like a carksk,
an' 'er a Band of 'Oper, Blue Ribander, an' Sunday Schooler from birth, an' not departin' from
it when she grew up. Such be the Ways of Providence," and Cook sighed with protestive respectfulness....

"Tapped 'er systerm, they did," she added pensively, and with a little justifiable pride.

"Were they hard taps?" inquired Lucille, reappearing from behind the flagon. "I hate them myself,
even on the funny-bone or knuckles--but on the cistern! Ugh!"

"Hard taps; they was silver taps," ejaculated Cook, "and drawed gallings and gallings--and
nothing to laugh at, Master Dammicles, neether.... So don't you drink no more, Miss Lucy."

"I can't," admitted Lucille--and indeed, to Dam, who regarded his "cousin" with considerable
concern, it did seem that, even as Cook's poor young sister of unhappy memory, Lucille had
"swole"--though only locally.

"Does beer make you swell or swole or swellow when you swallow, Cooker?" he inquired; "because,
if so, you had better be--" but he was not allowed to conclude his deduction, for cook, bridling,
bristling, and incensed, bore down upon the children and swept them from her kitchen.

To the boy, even as he fled via a dish of tartlets and cakes, it seemed remarkable that a certain
uncertainty of temper (and figure) should invariably distinguish those who devote their lives
to the obviously charming and attractive pursuit of the culinary art.

Surely one who, by reason of unfortunate limitations of sex, age, ability, or property, could
not become a Colonel of Cavalry could still find infinite compensation in the career of cook
or railway-servant.

Imagine, in the one case, having absolute freedom of action with regard to raisins, tarts,
cream, candy-peel, jam, plum-puddings and cakes, making life one vast hamper, and in the other
case, boundless opportunity in the matter of leaping on and off moving trains, carrying lighted
bull's-eye lanterns, and waving flags.

One of the early lessons that life taught him, without troubling to explain them, and she taught
him many and cruel, was that Cooks are Cross.

"What shall we do now, Dam?" asked Lucille, and added, "Let's raid the rotten nursery and rag
the Haddock. Little ass! Nothing else to do. How I hate Sunday afternoon.... No work and no
play. Rotten."

The Haddock, it may be stated, owed his fishy title to the fact that he once possessed a Wealthy
Relative of the name of Haddon. With far-sighted reversionary intent his mother, a Mrs. Berners
née Seymour Stukeley, had christened him Haddon.

But the Wealthy Relative, on being informed of his good fortune, had bluntly replied that he
intended to leave his little all to the founding of Night-Schools for illiterate Members of
Parliament, Travelling-Scholarships for uneducated Cabinet Ministers, and Deportment Classes
for New Radical Peers. He was a Funny Man as well as a Wealthy Relative.

And, thereafter, Haddon Berners' parents had, as Cook put it, "up and died" and "Grandfather"
had sent for, and adopted, the orphan Haddock.

Though known to Dam and Lucille as "The Haddock" he was in reality an utter Rabbit and esteemed
as such. A Rabbit he was born, a Rabbit he lived, and a Rabbit he died. Respectable ever. Seen
in the Right Place, in the Right Clothes, doing the Right Thing with the Right People at the
Right Time.

Lucille was the daughter of Sylvester Bethune Gavestone, the late and lamented Bishop of Minsterbury
(once a cavalry subaltern), a school, Sandhurst, and life-long friend of "Grandfather," and
husband of "Grandfather's" cousin, Geraldine Seymour Stukeley.

Poor "Grandfather," known to the children as "Grumper," the ferocious old tyrant who loved
all mankind and hated all men, with him adoption was a habit, and the inviting of other children
to stay as long as they liked with the adopted children, a craze.

And yet he rarely saw the children, never played with them, and hated to be disturbed.

He had out-lived his soldier-contemporaries, his children, his power to ride to hounds, his
pretty taste in wine, his fencing, dancing, flirting, and all that had made life bearable--everything,
as he said, but his gout and his liver (and, it may be added, except his ferocious, brutal temper).

"Yes.... Let us circumvent, decoy, and utterly destroy the common Haddock," agreed Dam.

The entry into the nursery was an effective night-attack by Blackfeet (not to mention hands)
but was spoilt by the presence of Miss Smellie who was sitting there knitting relentlessly.

"Never burst into rooms, children," she said coldly. "One expects little of a boy, but a girl
should try to appear a Young Lady. Come and sit by me, Lucille. What did you come in for--or
rather for what did you burst in?"

"We came to play with the Haddock," volunteered Dam.

"Very kind and thoughtful of you, I am sure," commented Miss Smellie sourly. "Most obliging
and benevolent," and, with a sudden change to righteous anger and bitterness, "Why don't you
speak the truth?"

"I am speaking the truth, Miss--er--Smellie," replied the boy. "We did come to play with the
dear little Haddock--like one plays with a football or a frog. I didn't say we came for Haddock's
good."

"We needed the Haddock, you see, Miss Smellie," confirmed Lucille.

"How many times am I to remind you that Haddon Berners' name is Haddon, Lucille," inquired
Miss Smellie. "Why must you always prefer vulgarity? One expects vulgarity from a boy--but
a girl should try to appear a Young Lady."

With an eye on Dam, Lucille protruded a very red tongue at surprising length, turned one eye
far inward toward her nose, wrinkled that member incredibly, corrugated her forehead grievously,
and elongated her mouth disastrously. The resultant expression of countenance admirably expressed
the general juvenile view of Miss Smellie and all her works.

