"No, no; don't leave the horses; somebody'll be comin' past, and we can call 'em in."

"Well, good-by, Rebecca; good-day, Mirandy 'n' Jane.  You've got a lively little girl there.
I guess she'll be a first-rate company keeper."

Miss Sawyer shuddered openly at the adjective "lively" as applied to a child; her belief being
that though children might be seen, if absolutely necessary, they certainly should never be
heard if she could help it. "We're not much used to noise, Jane and me," she remarked acidly.

Mr. Cobb saw that he had spoken indiscreetly, but he was too unused to argument to explain
himself readily, so he drove away, trying to think by what safer word than "lively" he might
have described his interesting little passenger.

"I'll take you up and show you your room, Rebecca," Miss Miranda said. "Shut the mosquito nettin'
door tight behind you, so's to keep the flies out; it ain't fly time yet, but I want you to
start right; take your parcel along with you and then you won't have to come down for it; always
make your head save your heels. Rub your feet on that braided rug; hang your hat and cape in
the entry as you go past."

"It's my best hat," said Rebecca.

"Take it upstairs then and put it in the clothes-press; but I shouldn't 'a' thought you'd 'a'
worn your best hat on the stage."

"It's my only hat," explained Rebecca. "My every-day hat was n't good enough to bring. Sister
Fanny's going to finish it."

"Lay your parasol in the entry closet."

"Do you mind if I keep it in my room, please? It always seems safer."

"There ain't any thieves hereabouts, and if there was, I guess they wouldn't make for your
sunshade; but come along. Remember to always go up the back way; we don't use the front stairs
on account o' the carpet; take care o' the turn and don't ketch your foot; look to your right
and go in. When you've washed your face and hands and brushed your hair you can come down,
and by and by we'll unpack your trunk and get you settled before supper. Ain't you got your
dress on hind side foremost?"

Rebecca drew her chin down and looked at the row of smoked pearl buttons running up and down
the middle of her flat little chest. "Hind side foremost?  Oh, I see! No, that's all right.
If you have seven children you can't keep buttonin' and unbuttonin' 'em all the time--they
have to do themselves. We're always buttoned up in front at our house. Mira's only three, but
she's buttoned up in front, too."

Miranda said nothing as she closed the door, but her looks were more eloquent than words.

Rebecca stood perfectly still in the centre of the floor and looked about her. There was a
square of oilcloth in front of each article of furniture and a drawn-in rug beside the single
four poster, which was covered with a fringed white dimity counterpane.

Everything was as neat as wax, but the ceilings were much higher than Rebecca was accustomed
to. It was a north room, and the window, which was long and narrow, looked out on the back
buildings and the barn.

It was not the room, which was far more comfortable than Rebecca's own at Sunnybrook Farm,
nor the lack of view, nor yet the long journey, for she was not conscious of weariness; it
was not the fear of a strange place, for she adored new places and new sensations; it was because
of some curious blending of uncomprehended emotions that Rebecca stood her beloved pink sunshade
in the corner, tore off her best hat, flung it on the bureau with the porcupine quills on the
under side, and stripping down the dimity spread, precipitated herself into the middle of the
bed and pulled the counterpane over her head.

In a moment the door opened with a clatter of the latch.

Knocking was a refinement quite unknown in Riverboro, and if it had been heard of, it would
never have been wasted on a child. Miss Miranda entered, and as her eye wandered about the
vacant room, it fell upon a white and tempestuous ocean of counterpane, an ocean breaking into
strange movements of wave and crest and billow.

"Rebecca!"

The tone in which the word was voiced gave it all the effect of having been shouted from the
housetops.

A dark ruffled head and two frightened eyes appeared above the dimity spread.

"What are you layin' on your good bed in the daytime for, messin' up the feathers, and dirtyin'
the comforter with your dusty boots?"

Rebecca rose guiltily. There seemed no excuse to make. Her offense was beyond explanation or
apology.

"I'm sorry, Aunt Mirandy-something came over me; I don't know what."

"Well, if it comes over you very soon again we'll have to find out what 't is. Spread your
bed up smooth this minute, for 'Bijah Flagg's bringin' your trunk upstairs, and I wouldn't
let him see such a cluttered-up room for anything; he'd tell it all over town."

When Mr. Cobb had put up his horses that night he carried a kitchen chair to the side of his
wife, who was sitting on the back porch.

"I brought a little Randall girl down on the stage from Maplewood to-day, mother. She's related
to the Sawyer girls an' is goin' to live with 'em," he said, as he sat down and began to whittle.
"She's Aurelia's child, the sister that ran away with Susan Randall's son just before we come
here to live."

"How old a child?"

"Bout ten, or somewhere along there, an' small for her age; but land! she might be a hundred
to hear her talk! She kept me jumpin' tryin' to answer her! Of all the queer children I ever
come across she's the queerest. She ain't no beauty--her face is all eyes; but if she ever
grows up to them eyes an' fills out a little she'll make folks stare. Land, mother! I wish
't you could 'a' heard her talk."

"I don't see what she had to talk about, a child like that, to a stranger," replied Mrs. Cobb.

"Stranger or no stranger, 't would n't make no difference to her. She'd talk to a pump or a
grindstone; she'd talk to herself ruther 'n keep still."

"What did she talk about?

"Blamed if I can repeat any of it. She kept me so surprised I didn't have my wits about me.
She had a little pink sunshade--it kind o' looked like a doll's umberella, 'n' she clung to
it like a burr to a woolen stockin'. I advised her to open it up--the sun was so hot; but she
said no, 't would fade, an' she tucked it under her dress.  'It's the dearest thing in life
to me,' says she, 'but it's a dreadful care.' Them's the very words, an' it's all the words
I remember.  'It's the dearest thing in life to me, but it's an awful care!'"--here Mr. Cobb
laughed aloud as he tipped his chair back against the side of the house. "There was another
thing, but I can't get it right exactly. She was talkin' 'bout the circus parade an' the snake
charmer in a gold chariot, an' says she, 'She was so beautiful beyond compare, Mr. Cobb, that
it made you have lumps in your throat to look at her.' She'll be comin' over to see you, mother,
an' you can size her up for yourself, I don' know how she'll git on with Mirandy Sawyer--poor
little soul!"

This doubt was more or less openly expressed in Riverboro, which, however, had two opinions
on the subject; one that it was a most generous thing in the Sawyer girls to take one of Aurelia's
children to educate, the other that the education would be bought at a price wholly out of
proportion to its real value.

Rebecca's first letters to her mother would seem to indicate that she cordially coincided with
the latter view of the situation.

II

REBECCA'S POINT OF VIEW

DEAR MOTHER,--I am safely here. My dress was not much tumbled and Aunt Jane helped me press
it out. I like Mr. Cobb very much. He chews tobacco but throws newspapers straight up to the
doors of the houses. I rode outside with him a little while, but got inside before I got to
Aunt Miranda's house. I did not want to, but thought you would like it better. Miranda is such
a long word that I think I will say Aunt M. and Aunt J. in my Sunday letters. Aunt J. has given
me a dictionary to look up all the hard words in. It takes a good deal of time and I am glad
people can talk without stoping to spell. It is much eesier to talk than write and much more
fun. The brick house looks just the same as you have told us. The parler is splendid and gives
YOU creeps and chills when you look in the door. The furnature is ellergant too, and all the
rooms but there are no good sitting-down places exsept in the kitchen. The same cat is here
but they never save the kittens and the cat is too old to play with. Hannah told me once you
ran away to be married to father and I can see it would be nice. If Aunt M. would run away
I think I should like to live with Aunt J. She does not hate me as bad as Aunt M. does.  Tell
Mark he can have my paint box, but I should like him to keep the red cake in case I come home
again. I hope Hannah and John do mot get tired doing my work.

Your afectionate friend

REBECCA.

P. S. Please give the piece of poetry to John because he likes my poetry even when it is not
very good. This piece is not very good but it is true but I hope you won't mind what is in
it as you ran away.

  This house is dark and dull and dreer
  No light doth shine from far or near
  Its like the tomb.

  And those of us who live herein
  Are almost as dead as serrafim
  Though not as good.

  My guardian angel is asleep
  At leest he doth not virgil keep
  Ah! Woe is me!

  Then give me back my lonely farm
  Where none alive did wish me harm
  Dear home of youth!

P.S. again. I made the poetry like a piece in a book but could not get it right at first. You
see "tomb" and "good" do not sound well together but I wanted to say "tomb" dreadfully and
as serrafim are always good I could n't take that out. I have made it over now. It does not
say my thoughts as well but think it is more right. Give the best one to John as he keeps them
in a box with his bird's eggs. This is the best one.

SUNDAY THOUGHTS

BY

REBECCA ROWENA RANDALL

  This house is dark and dull and drear
  No light doth shine from far or near
  Nor ever could.

  And those of us who live herein
  Are most as dead as seraphim
  Though not as good.

  My guardian angel is asleep
  At least he doth no vigil keep
  But far doth roam.

  Then give me back my lonely farm
  Where none alive did wish me harm,
  Dear childhood home!

DEAR MOTHER,--I am thrilling with unhappyness this morning. I got that out of a book called
Cora The Doctor's Wife. Cora's husband's mother was very cross and unfeeling to her like Aunt
M. to me. I wish Hannah had come instead of me for it was Hannah that Aunt M. wanted and she
is better than I am and does not answer back so quick. Are there any peaces of my buff calico.
Aunt J. wants enough to make a new waste, button behind, so I wont look so outlandish. The
stiles are quite pretty in Riverboro and those at Meeting quite ellergant, more so than in
Temperance.

  This town is stilish, gay and fair,
  And full of wellthy riches rare,
  But I would pillow on my arm
  The thought of my sweet Brookside Farm.

School is pretty good. The Teacher can answer more questions than the Temperance one but not
so many as I can ask. I am smarter than all the girls but one but not so smart as two boys.
Emma Jane can add and subtract in her head like a streek of lightning and knows the speling
book right through but has no thoughts of any kind. She is in the Third Reader but does not
like stories in books. I am in the Sixth Reader but just because I cannot say the seven multiplication
Table Miss Dearborn threttens to put me in the baby primer class with Elijah and Elisha Simpson
little twins.

  Sore is my heart and bent my stubborn pride,
  With Lijah and with Lisha am I tied,
  My soul recoyles like Cora Doctor's Wife,
  Like her I feer I cannot bare this life.

I am going to try for the speling prize but fear I cannot get it. I would not care but wrong
speling looks dreadful in poetry. Last Sunday when I found seraphim in the dictionary I was
ashamed I had made it serrafim but seraphim is not a word you can guess at like another long
one, outlandish, in this letter which spells itself. Miss Dearborn says use the words you can
spell and if you cant spell seraphim make angel do but angels are not just the same as seraphims.
Seraphims are brighter whiter and have bigger wings and I think are older and longer dead than
angels which are just freshly dead and after a long time in heaven around the great white throne
grow to be seraphims.

I sew on brown gingham dresses every afternoon when Emma Jane and the Simpsons are playing
house or running on the Logs when their mothers do not know it. Their mothers are afraid they
will drown and aunt M. is afraid I will wet my clothes so will not let me either. I can play
from half past four to supper and after supper a little bit and Saturday afternoons. I am glad
our cow has a calf and it is spotted. It is going to be a good year for apples and hay so you
and John will be glad and we can pay a little more morgage. Miss Dearborn asked us what is
the object of edducation and I said the object of mine was to help pay off the morgage. She
told Aunt M. and I had to sew extra for punishment because she says a morgage is disgrace like
stealing or smallpox and it will be all over town that we have one on our farm. Emma Jane is
not morgaged nor Richard Carter nor Dr. Winship but the Simpsons are.

  Rise my soul, strain every nerve,
  Thy morgage to remove,
  Gain thy mother's heartfelt thanks
  Thy family's grateful love.

Pronounce family quick or it won't sound right.

Your loving little friend
  REBECCA.

DEAR JOHN,--YOU remember when we tide the new dog in the barn how he bit the rope and howled.
I am just like him only the brick house is the barn and I can not bite Aunt M. because I must
be grateful and edducation is going to be the making of me and help you pay off the mortgage
when we grow up.

Your loving
  BECKY.

III.

WISDOM'S WAYS

THE day of Rebecca's arrival had been Friday, and on the Monday following she began her education
at the school which was in Riverboro Centre, about a mile distant. Miss Sawyer borrowed a neighbor's
horse and wagon and drove her to the schoolhouse, interviewing the teacher, Miss Dearborn,
arranging for books, and generally starting the child on the path that was to lead to boundless
knowledge.

Rebecca walked to school after the first morning. She loved this part of the day's programme.
When the dew was not too heavy and the weather was fair there was a short cut through the woods.
She turned off the main road, crept through Joshua Woodman's bars, waved away Mrs. Carter's
cows, trod the short grass of the pasture, with its well-worn path running through gardens
of buttercups and whiteweed, and groves of boxberry leaves and sweet fern. She descended a
little hill, jumped from stone to stone across a woodland brook, startling the drowsy frogs,
who were always winking and blinking in the morning sun. Then came the "woodsy bit," with her
feet pressing the slippery carpet of brown pine needles; the woodsy bit so full of dewy morning
surprises,--fungous growths of brilliant orange and crimson springing up around the stumps
of dead trees, beautiful things born in a single night; and now and then the miracle of a little
clump of waxen Indian pipes, seen just quickly enough to be saved from her careless tread.
Then she climbed a stile, went through a grassy meadow, slid under another pair of bars, and
came out into the road again, having gained nearly half a mile.

How delicious it all was! Rebecca clasped her Quackenbos's Grammar and Greenleaf's Arithmetic
with a joyful sense of knowing her lessons. Her dinner pail swung from her right hand, and
she had a blissful consciousness of the two soda biscuits spread with butter and syrup, the
baked cup-custard, the doughnut, and the square of hard gingerbread. Sometimes she said whatever
"piece" she was going to speak on the next Friday afternoon.

How she loved the swing and the sentiment of it! How her young voice quivered whenever she
came to the refrain:--

"But we'll meet no more at Bingen, dear Bingen on the Rhine."

It always sounded beautiful in her ears, as she sent her tearful little treble into the clear
morning air.

Another early favorite (for we must remember that Rebecca's only knowledge of the great world
of poetry consisted of the selections in vogue in the old school Readers) was:--

  "Woodman, spare that tree!
  Touch not a single bough!
  In youth it sheltered me,
  And I'll protect it now."

When Emma Jane Perkins walked through the "short cut" with her, the two children used to render
this with appropriate dramatic action. Emma Jane always chose to be the woodman because she
had nothing to do but raise on high an imaginary axe. On the one occasion when she essayed
the part of the tree's romantic protector, she represented herself as feeling "so awful foolish"
that she refused to undertake it again, much to the secret delight of Rebecca, who found the
woodman's role much too tame for her vaulting ambition. She reveled in the impassioned appeal
of the poet, and implored the ruthless woodman to be as brutal as possible with the axe, so
that she might properly put greater spirit into her lines. One morning, feeling more frisky
than usual, she fell upon her knees and wept in the woodman's petticoat. Curiously enough,
her sense of proportion rejected this as soon as it was done.

"That wasn't right, it was silly, Emma Jane; but I'll tell you where it might come in--in 'Give
me Three Grains of Corn.' You be the mother, and I'll be the famishing Irish child. For pity's
sake put the axe down; you are not the woodman any longer!"

"What'll I do with my hands, then?" asked Emma Jane.

"Whatever you like," Rebecca answered wearily; "you're just a mother--that's all. What does
your mother do with her hands? Nowhere goes!

This sort of thing made Emma Jane nervous and fidgety, but she was Rebecca's slave and obeyed
her lightest commands. At the last pair of bars the two girls were sometimes met by a detachment
of the Simpson children, who lived in a black house with a red door and a red barn behind,
on the Blueberry Plains road. Rebecca felt an interest in the Simpsons from the first, because
there were so many of them and they were so patched and darned, just like her own brood at
the home farm.

The little schoolhouse with its flagpole on top and its two doors in front, one for boys and
the other for girls, stood on the crest of a hill, with rolling fields and meadows on one side,
a stretch of pine woods on the other, and the river glinting and sparkling in the distance.
It boasted no attractions within. All was as bare and ugly and uncomfortable as it well could
be, for the villages along the river expended so much money in repairing and rebuilding bridges
that they were obliged to be very economical in school privileges. The teacher's desk and chair
stood on a platform in one corner; there was an uncouth stove, never blackened oftener than
once a year, a map of the United States, two blackboards, a ten-quart tin pail of water and
long-handled dipper on a corner shelf, and wooden desks and benches for the scholars, who only
numbered twenty in Rebecca's time. The seats were higher in the back of the room, and the more
advanced and longer-legged pupils sat there, the position being greatly to be envied, as they
were at once nearer to the windows and farther from the teacher.

There were classes of a sort, although nobody, broadly speaking, studied the same book with
anybody else, or had arrived at the same degree of proficiency in any one branch of learning.
Rebecca in particular was so difficult to classify that Miss Dearborn at the end of a fortnight
gave up the attempt altogether. She read with Dick Carter and Living Perkins, who were fitting
for the academy; recited arithmetic with lisping little "Thuthan Thimpthon;" geography with
Emma Jane Perkins, and grammar after school hours to Miss Dearborn alone. Full to the brim
as she was of clever thoughts and quaint fancies, she made at first but a poor hand at composition.
The labor of writing and spelling, with the added difficulties of punctuation and capitals,
interfered sadly with the free expression of ideas. She took history with Alice Robinson's
class, which was attacking the subject of the Revolution, while Rebecca was bidden to begin
with the discovery of America. In a week she had mastered the course of events up to the Revolution,
and in ten days had arrived at Yorktown, where the class had apparently established summer
quarters. Then finding that extra effort would only result in her reciting with the oldest
Simpson boy, she deliberately held herself back, for wisdom's ways were not those of pleasantness
nor her paths those of peace if one were compelled to tread them in the company of Seesaw Simpson.
Samuel Simpson was generally called Seesaw, because of his difficulty in making up his mind.
Whether it were a question of fact, of spelling, or of date, of going swimming or fishing,
of choosing a book in the Sunday-school library or a stick of candy at the village store, he
had no sooner determined on one plan of action than his wish fondly reverted to the opposite
one. Seesaw was pale, flaxen haired, blue eyed, round shouldered, and given to stammering when
nervous. Perhaps because of his very weakness, Rebecca's decision of character had a fascination
for him, and although she snubbed him to the verge of madness, he could never keep his eyes
away from her. The force with which she tied her shoe when the lacing came undone, the flirt
over shoulder she gave her black braid when she was excited or warm, her manner of studying,--book
on desk, arms folded, eyes fixed on the opposite wall,--all had an abiding charm for Seesaw
Simpson. When, having obtained permission, she walked to the water pail in the corner and drank
from the dipper, unseen forces dragged Seesaw from his seat to go and drink after her. It was
not only that there was something akin to association and intimacy in drinking next, but there
was the fearful joy of meeting her in transit and receiving a cold and disdainful look from
her wonderful eyes.

On a certain warm day in summer Rebecca's thirst exceeded the bounds of propriety. When she
asked a third time for permission to quench it at the common fountain Miss Dearborn nodded
"yes," but lifted her eyebrows unpleasantly as Rebecca neared the desk. As she replaced the
dipper Seesaw promptly raised his hand, and Miss Dearborn indicated a weary affirmative.

"What is the matter with you, Rebecca?" she asked.

"It is a very thirsty morning," answered Rebecca.

There seemed nothing humorous about this reply, which was merely the statement of a fact, but
an irrepressible titter ran through the school.  Miss Dearborn did not enjoy jokes neither
made nor understood by herself, and her face flushed.

"I think you had better stand by the pail for five minutes, Rebecca; it may help you to control
your thirst."

Rebecca's heart fluttered. She to stand in the corner by the water pail and be stared at by
all the scholars! She unconsciously made a gesture of angry dissent and moved a step nearer
her seat, but was arrested by Miss Dearborn's command in a still firmer voice.

"Stand by the pail, Rebecca!--Samuel Simpson how many times have you asked for water already?"

"This is the f-f-fourth."

"Don't touch the dipper, please. The school has done nothing but drink all day; it has had
no time whatever to study. What is the matter with you, Samuel?"

"It is a v-very thirsty m-morning," remarked Samuel, looking at Rebecca while the school tittered.

"I judged so. Stand by the other side of the pail, with Rebecca." Rebecca's head was bowed
with shame and wrath. Life looked too black a thing to be endured. The punishment was bad enough,
but to be coupled in correction with Seesaw Simpson was beyond human endurance.

Singing was the last exercise in the afternoon, and Minnie Smellie chose "Shall we Gather at
the River?" It was a curious choice and seemed to hold some secret association with the situation
and general progress of events; or at any rate there was apparently some obscure reason for
the energy and vim with which the scholars looked at the empty water pail as they shouted the
choral invitation again and again:--

  "Shall we gather at the river,
  The beautiful, the beautiful river?"

Miss Dearborn stole a look at Rebecca's bent head, and was frightened. The child's face was
pale save for two red spots glowing on her checks. Tears hung on her lashes; her breath came
and went quickly, and the hand that held her pocket handkerchief trembled like a leaf.

"You may go to your seat, Rebecca," said Miss Dearborn at the end of the first song. "Samuel,
stay where you are till the close of school. And let me tell you, scholars, that I asked Rebecca
to stand by the pail only to break up this habit of incessant drinking, which is nothing but
empty-mindedness and desire to walk to and fro over the floor. Every time Rebecca has asked
for a drink to-day the whole school has gone to the pail like a regiment. She is really thirsty,
and I dare say I ought to have punished you for following her example, not her for setting
it. What shall we sing now, Alice?"

"'The Old Oaken Bucket,' please."

"Think of something dry, Alice, and change the subject. Yes, 'The Star Spangled Banner' if
you like, or anything else." Rebecca sank into her seat and pulled the singing book from her
desk. Miss Dearborn's public explanation had shifted some of the weight from her heart, and
she felt a trifle raised in her self-esteem.

Under cover of the general relaxation of singing, offerings of respectful sympathy began to
make their appearance at her shrine. Living Perkins, who could not sing, dropped a piece of
maple sugar in her lap as he passed her on his way to the blackboard to draw the map of Maine,
while Alice Robinson rolled a perfectly new slate pencil over the floor with her foot until
it reached Rebecca's place.

Altogether existence grew brighter, and when she was left alone with the teacher for her grammar
lesson she had nearly recovered her equanimity, which was more than Miss Dearborn had. The
last clattering foot had echoed through the hall, Seesaw's backward glance of penitence had
been met and answered defiantly by one of cold disdain.

"Rebecca, I am afraid I punished you more than I meant," said Miss Dearborn, who was only eighteen
herself, and in her year of teaching country schools had never encountered a child like Rebecca.

"I had n't missed a question this whole day, nor whispered either," quavered the culprit; "and
I don't think I ought to be shamed just for drinking."

"You started all the others, or it seemed as if you did. Whatever you do they all do, whether
you laugh, or write notes, or ask to leave the room, or drink; and it must be stopped."

"Sam Simpson is a copycoat!" stormed Rebecca. "I would n't have minded standing in the corner
alone--that is, not so very much; but I couldn't bear standing with him."

"I saw that you could n't, and that's the reason I told you to take your seat, and left him
in the corner. Remember that you are a stranger in the place, and they take more notice of
what you do, so you must be careful. Now let's have our conjugations. Give me the verb 'to
be,' potential mood, past perfect tense."

  "I might have been
  Thou mightst have been
  He might have been
  We might  have been
  You might have been
  They might have been"

"Give me an example, please."

  "I might have been glad
  Thou mightst have been glad
  He, she, or it might have been glad"

"'He' or 'she' might have been glad because they are masculine and feminine, but could 'it'
have been glad?" asked Miss Dearborn, who was very fond of splitting hairs.

"Why not?" asked Rebecca.

"Because 'it' is neuter gender."

"Could n't we say, 'The kitten might have been glad if it had known it was not going to be
drowned'?"

"Ye-es," Miss Dearborn answered hesitatingly, never very sure of herself under Rebecca's fire;
"but though we often speak of a baby, a chicken, or a kitten as 'it,' they are really masculine
or feminine gender, not neuter."

Rebecca reflected a long moment and then asked, "Is a hollyhock neuter?"

"Oh yes, of course it is, Rebecca."

"Well, could n't we say, 'The hollyhock might have been glad to see it rain, but there was
a weak little baby bud growing out of its stalk and it was afraid it might be hurt by the storm;
so the big hollyhock was kind of afraid, instead of being real glad'?"

Miss Dearborn looked puzzled as she answered, "Of course, Rebecca, hollyhocks could not be
sorry, or glad, or afraid, really."

"We can't tell, I s'pose," replied the child; "but I think they are, anyway. Now what shall I say?"

"The subjunctive mood, past perfect tense of the verb 'to know.'"

  "If I had known
  If thou hadst known
  If he had known
  If we had known
  If you had known
  If they had known"

"Oh, it is the saddest tense," sighed Rebecca with a little a little break in her voice; "nothing
but ifs, ifs, ifs! And it makes you feel that if they only had known, things might have been
better!"

Miss Dearborn had not thought of it before, but on reflection she believed the subjective mood
was a "sad" one and "if" rather a sorry "part of speech."

"Give me some examples of the subjective, Rebecca, and that will do for this afternoon," she said.

"If I had not eaten salt mackerel for breakfast I should not have been thirsty," said Rebecca
with an April smile, as she closed her grammar. "If thou hadst love me truly thou wouldst not
have stood me up in the corner. If Samuel had not loved wickedness he would not have followed
me to the water pail."

"And if Rebecca had loved the rules of the school she would have controlled her thirst," finished
Miss Dearborn with a kiss, and the two parted friends.

IV

THE SAVING OF THE COLORS

EVEN when Rebecca had left school, having attained the great age of seventeen and therefore
able to look back over a past incredibly long and full, she still reckoned time not by years,
but by certain important occurrences. Between these epoch-making events certain other happenings
stood out in bold relief against the gray of dull daily life. There was the coming of the new
minister, for though many were tried only one was chosen; and finally there was the flag-raising,
a festivity that thrilled Riverboro and Edgewood society from centre to circumference, a festivity
that took place just before she entered the Female Seminary at Wareham and said good-by to
kind Miss Dearborn and the village school.

