Early the next afternoon Dorcas decided she stood in need of brisk, outdoor exercise. Olive
came running down the path after her, eagerly demanding to be taken along. Dorcas with much
sternness bade her go back. She wanted to be alone, unless--But she refused to admit to herself
that there was any "unless."

Olive, grievously disappointed, stood on the steps, watching her big sister set off up the
road. She saw Dorcas take the righthand turn at the fork. The baby's face cleared. Now she
knew in which direction Dorcas was going. That fork led to the Glen. And the Glen was a favorite
Sunday afternoon ramble for Link and Chum. Olive knew that, because she and Dorcas  more than
once had walked thither to meet them.

Olive was pleasantly forgetful of her parents' positive command that she refrain from walking
alone on the motor-infested Sunday roads. She set off at a fast jog trot over the nearby hill,
on whose other side ran the Glen road.

Link Ferris, with Chum at his heels, was tramping moodily toward the Glen. As he turned into
the road he paused in his sullen walk. There, strolling unconcernedly, some yards in front
of him, was a tall girl in white. Her back was toward him. Yet he would have recognized her
at a hundred times the distance. Chum knew her, too, for he wagged his tail and started at
a faster trot to overtake her.

"Back!" called Link.

Purposely he spoke as low as possible. But the dog heard and obeyed. The girl, too, started
a little, and made as if to turn. Just then ensued a wild crackling in the thick roadside bushes
which lined the hillside from highway to crest. And a white-clad little bunch of humanity came
galloping jubilantly out into the road, midway between Dorcas and Link.

At the road edge Olive's stubby toe caught in a noose of blackberry vine. As the youngster
was running full tilt, her own impetus sent her rolling over and over into the center of the
dusty turnpike.

Before she could get to her feet or even stop rolling, a touring car came round the bend, ten
yards away--a car that was traveling at a speed of something like forty-five miles an hour,
and whose four occupants were singing at the top of their lungs.

Link Ferris had scarce time to tense his muscles for a futile spring--Dorcas's scream  of helpless
terror was still unborn--when the car was upon the prostrate child.

And in the same fraction of a second a furry catapult launched itself across the wide road
at a speed that made it look like tawny blur.

Chum's mad leap carried him to the baby just as the car's fender hung above her. A slashing
grip of his teeth in the shoulder of her white dress and a lightning heave of his mighty neck
and shoulders--and the little form was hurtling through the air and into the weed-filled wayside
ditch.

In practically the same instant Chum's body whizzed into the air again. But this time by no
impetus of its own. The high-powered car's fender had struck it fair, and had tossed it into
the ditch as though the dog had been a heap of rags.

There--huddled and lifeless--sprawled the beautiful collie. The car put on an extra spurt of
speed and disappeared round the next turn.

Olive was on her feet before Dorcas's flying steps could reach her. Unhurt but vastly indignant,
the baby opened her mouth to make way for a series of howls. Then, her eye falling on the inert
dog, she ran over to Chum and began to cry out to him to come to life again.

"No use of that, kid!" interposed Link, kneeling beside the collie he loved and smoothing the
soiled and rumpled fur. "It's easier to drop out of life than what it is to come back to it
again. Well," he went on harshly, turning to the weeping Dorcas, "the question has answered
itself, you see. No need now to tell me to get rid of him. He's saved me the bother. Like he
was always saving me bother. That being Chum's way."

