Twenty-five feet down; and then, after a long time, thirty-five feet, and forty. Seventy feet
up, in all, to the hole in the ice....

Ken wanted seventy-five feet, but he could not have it. For the wall of sleek bodies broke.
One or two of the creatures surged forward; other followed; they were coming!

The slim torpoon leaped under the unleashed power of her motors--forward.

       *       *       *       *       *

For one awful moment Ken thought he was finished. The vision of the hole was obscured by a
twisting, whirling maelstrom of bodies, and the torpoon quivered and shook like a living thing
in agony under glancing blows.

But then came a patch of light, a pathway of light, leading straight up at a forty-five-degree
angle to the hole in the ice above.

Sealmen and torpoon had leaped forward at the same moment. Doubtless the creatures had not
expected the shell to move so suddenly and decisively ahead, so that when it did, those in
the van swerved to escape head-on contact.

The torpoon gained speed all too slowly for her pilot. It naturally took time to gain full
forward speed from a standing start. But she moved, and she moved fast, and after her poured
the full tide of sealmen, now that they saw their prey running in retreat.

From somewhere ahead appeared a rope, noosed to catch the fleeing prey. It slipped off the
side. Another touched the bow, but it too was thrown off. The torpoon's forward momentum was
now great; she was sweeping up at the full speed Ken had gone back to be able to attain. He
needed full speed! The plan would fail at the last moment without it!

Another rope; but it was the seal-creature's last gesture. Through the side plates of quarsteel
the light grew fast; the ice was only ten feet away; a slight directional correction brought
the hole dead ahead--and at full speed, twenty-four miles an hour, the torpoon passed through
and into the thin air of the world of light and life.

Right out of the hole, a desperate fugitive from below, she leaped, her propeller suddenly
screaming, and arched high through the air before she dove with a rending, splintering crash
onto the upper side of the sheet ice.

And the sun of a cloudless, perfect Arctic day beat down on her; and men were all around, eagerly
reaching to open her entrance port. It was done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kenneth Torrance, dazed, battered, hurting in every joint but conscious, found the torpoon's
port open, and felt hands reach in and clasp him. Wearily he helped them lift him out into
the thin sunlight. Sitting down, slitting his eyes against the sudden glare, he peered around.

Captain Sallorsen was beside him, supporting him with one hand and pounding him on the back
with the other; and there in front was the bearded scientist, Lawson, and the rest of the men.

Ken took a great gulp of the clean, cold air.

"Gosh!" was all he could say. "Gosh, that tastes good!"

"Man, you did it!" shouted Sallorsen. "How, in God's name, I don't know--but you did it!"

"He did!" said Lawson. "And he did it all himself. Even to the food, which should keep us till
a plane comes by. If they haven't stopped searching for us."

His words reminded Ken of something.

"Oh, there'll be a plane over," he said. "Forgot to tell you, but I stole this torpoon--see?--and
told the fellows they could come and get it somewhere right around here."

Kenneth Torrance grinned, and glanced down at the battered steel shell which had borne him
out of the water below.

"And here it is," he finished. "A little damaged--but then I didn't promise it would be as
good as new!"

       *       *       *       *       *