A SHORT HISTORY OF

MONKS

AND MONASTERIES

By ALFRED WESLEY WISHART

Sometime Fellow in Church History in The University of Chicago

ALBERT BRANDT, PUBLISHER TRENTON, NEW JERSEY MDCCCC

1900

PREFACE

The aim of this volume is to sketch the history of the monastic institution from its origin
to its overthrow in the Reformation period, for although the institution is by no means now
extinct, its power was practically broken in the sixteenth century, and no new orders of importance
or new types have arisen since that time.

A little reflection will enable one to understand the great difficulties in the execution of
so broad a purpose. It was impracticable in the majority of instances to consult original sources,
although intermediate authorities have been studied as widely as possible and the greatest
caution has been exercised to avoid those errors which naturally arise from the use of such
avenues of information. It was also deemed unadvisable to burden the work with numerous notes
and citations. Such notes as were necessary to a true unfolding of the subject will be found
in the appendix.

A presentation of the salient features of the whole history was essential to a proper conception
of the orderly development of the ascetic ideal. To understand the monastic institution one
must not only study the isolated anchorite seeking a victory over a sinful self in the Egyptian
desert or the monk in the secluded cloister, but he must also trace the fortunes of ascetic
organizations, involving multitudes of men, vast aggregations of wealth, and surviving the
rise and fall of empires. Almost every phase of human life is encountered in such an undertaking.
Attention is divided between hermits, beggars, diplomatists, statesmen, professors, missionaries
and pontiffs. It is hoped the critical or literary student will appreciate the immense difficulties
of an attempt to paint so vast a scene on so small a canvas. No other claim is made upon his
benevolence.

There is a process of writing history which Trench describes as "a moral whitewashing of such
things as in men's sight were as blackamoors before." Religious or temperamental prejudice
often obscures the vision and warps the judgment of even the most scholarly minds. Conscious
of this infirmity in the ablest writers of history it would be absurd to claim complete exemption
from the power of personal bias. It is sincerely hoped, however, that the strongest passion
in the preparation of this work has been that commendable predilection for truth and justice
which should characterize every historical narrative, and that, whatever other shortcomings
may be found herein, there is an absence of that unreasonable suspicion, not to say hatred,
of everything monastic, which mars many otherwise valuable contributions to monastic history.

The author's grateful acknowledgment is made, for kindly services and critical suggestions,
to Eri Baker Hulbert, D.D., LL.D., Dean of the Divinity School, and Professor and Head of the
Department of Church History; Franklin Johnson, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Church History and
Homiletics; Benjamin S. Terry, Ph.D., Professor of Medieval and English History; and Ralph
C.H. Catterall, Instructor in Modern History; all of The University of Chicago. Also to James
M. Whiton, Ph.D., of the Editorial Staff of "The Outlook"; Ephraim Emerton, Ph.D., Winn Professor
of Ecclesiastical History in Harvard University; S. Giffard Nelson, L.H.D., of Brooklyn, New
York; A.H. Newman, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Church History in McMaster University of Toronto,
Ontario; and Paul Van Dyke, D.D., Professor of History in Princeton University.

A.W.W. Trenton, March, 1900.

CONTENTS

                                                        Page
PREFACE,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      5
BIBLIOGRAPHY,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     13

                   I

MONASTICISM IN THE EAST, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     17
  The Hermits of Egypt,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     33
  The Pillar Saint,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     51
  The Cenobites of the East,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     57

                   II

MONASTICISM IN THE WEST: ANTE-BENEDICTINE MONKS,
    340-480 A.D.,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     71
  Monasticism and Women, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    106
  The Spread of Monasticism in Europe,  .  .  .  .  .    115
  Disorders and Oppositions,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    124

                   III

THE BENEDICTINES,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    131
  The Rules of Benedict, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    138
  The Struggle Against Barbarism, .  .  .  .  .  .  .    148
  The Spread of the Benedictine Rule,   .  .  .  .  .    158

                   IV

REFORMED AND MILITARY ORDERS,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    173
  The Military Religious Orders,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    197

                   V

THE MENDICANT FRIARS, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    205
  Francis Bernardone, 1182-1226 A.D.,   .  .  .  .  .    208
  The Franciscan Orders, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    226
  Dominic de Guzman, 1170--1221 A.D.,   .  .  .  .  .    230
  The Dominican Orders,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    241
  The Success of the Mendicant Orders,  .  .  .  .  .    242
  The Decline of the Mendicants,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    253

                  VI

THE SOCIETY OF JESUS, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    258
  Ignatius de Loyola, 1491-1556 A.D.,   .  .  .  .  .    261
  Constitution and Polity of the Order, .  .  .  .  .    265
  The Vow of Obedience,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    266
  The Casuistry of the Jesuits,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    272
  The Mission of the Jesuits,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    276
  Retrospect,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    284

                  VII

THE FALL OF THE MONASTERIES,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    286
  The Character of Henry VIII.,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    290
  Events Preceding the Suppression,  .  .  .  .  .  .    293
  The Monks and the Oath of Supremacy,  .  .  .  .  .    301
  The Royal Commissioners and their Methods of
    Investigation, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    308
  The Report of the Commissioners,   .  .  .  .  .  .    316
  The Action of Parliament, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    319
  The Effect of the Suppression Upon the People, .  .    322
  Henry's Disposal of Monastic Revenues,   .  .  .  .    328
  Was the Suppression Justifiable?   .  .  .  .  .  .    331
  Results of the Dissolution,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    347

                   VIII

CAUSES AND IDEALS OF MONASTICISM, .  .  .  .  .  .  .    354
  Causative Motives of Monasticism,  .  .  .  .  .  .    355
  Beliefs Affecting the Causative Motives, .  .  .  .    365
  Causes of Variations in Monasticism,  .  .  .  .  .    371
  The Fundamental Monastic Vows,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    375

                    IX

THE EFFECTS OF MONASTICISM, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    386
  The Effects of Self-Sacrifice Upon the Individual,     390
  The Effects of Solitude Upon the Individual,   .  .    393
  The Monks as Missionaries,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    398
  Monasticism and Civic Duties,   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    399
  The Agricultural Services of the Monks,  .  .  .  .    403
  The Monks and Secular Learning, .  .  .  .  .  .  .    405
  The Charity of the Monks, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    410
  Monasticism and Religion, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    412

APPENDIX, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    425 INDEX, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    433

       *       *       *       *       *

LIST OF PORTRAITS

SAINT FRANCIS OF ASSISI, DYING, is CONVEYED TO THE CHURCH OF SAINTE MARIE DE PORTIUNCULE, 
.  .  .  .  facing title.

After the painting by J.J. Weerts. Originally published by Goupil & Co. of Paris, and here
reproduced by their permission.

     [Jean Joseph Weerts was born at Roubaix (Nord), on May 1,
     1847. He was a pupil of Cabanel, Mils and Pils. He was
     awarded the second-class medal in 1875, was made Chevalier of
     the Legion of Honor in 1884, received the silver medal at the
     Universal Exposition of 1889, and was created an Officer of
     the Legion of Honor in 1897. He is a member of the "Société
     des Artistes Français," and is hors concours.]

SAINT BERNARD, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    192

After an engraving by Ambroise Tardieu, from a painting on glass in the Convent of the R.P.
Minimes, at Rheims.

     [Ambroise Tardieu was born in Paris, in 1790, and died in
     1837. He was an engraver of portraits, landscapes and
     architecture, and a clever manipulator of the burin. For a
     time he held the position of "Geographical Engraver" to the
     Departments of Marine, Fortifications and Forests. He was a
     member of the French Geographical and Mathematical
     Societies.]--Nagler.

SAINT DOMINIC, .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    230

From a photograph of Bozzani's painting, preserved in his cell at Santa Sabina, Rome. Here
reproduced from Augusta T. Drane's "History of St. Dominic," by courtesy of the author and
the publishers, Longmans, Green & Co., of London and New York.

     ["Although several so-called portraits (of St. Dominic) are
     preserved, yet none of them can be regarded as the vera
     effigies of the saint, though that preserved at Santa Sabina
     probably presents us with a kind of traditionary
     likeness."]--History of St. Dominic.

     [In the "History of St. Dominic," on page 226, the author
     credits the portrait shown to "Bozzani." We are unable to
     find any record of a painter by that name. Nagler, however,
     tells of a painter of portraits and historical subjects,
     Carlo Bozzoni by name, who was born in 1607 and died in 1657.
     He was a son of Luciano Bozzoni, a Genoese painter and
     engraver. He is said to have done good work, but no other
     mention is made of him.]

IGNATIUS DE LOYOLA,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    261

After the engraving by Greatbach, "from a scarce print by H. Wierz." Originally published by
Richard Bentley, London, in 1842.

     [W. Greatbach was a London engraver in the first half of the
     nineteenth century. He worked chiefly for the "calendars" and
     "annuals" of his time, and did notable work for the general
     book trade of the better class.]

     [A search of the authorities does not reveal an engraver
     named "H. Wierz." This is probably intended for Hieronymus
     Wierex (or Wierix, according to Bryant), a famous engraver,
     born in 1552, and who is credited by Nagler, in his
     "Künstler-Lexikon," with having produced "a beautiful and
     rare plate" of "St. Ignaz von Loyola." The error, if such it
     be, is easily explained by the fact that portrait engravers
     seldom cut the lettering of a plate themselves, but have it
     engraved by others, who have a special aptitude for making
     shapely letters.]

BIBLIOGRAPHY

ADAMS, G.B.: Civilization during the Middle Ages.
ARCHER, T.A., and KINGSFORD, CHARLES L.: The Crusaders.
BARROWS, JOHN H., (Editor): The World's Parliment of Religions.
BLUNT, I.J.: Sketches of the Reformation in England.
BLUNT, JOHN HENRY: The Reformation of the Church of England,
  its History, Principles and Results.
BREWER, JOHN SHERREN: The Reign of Henry VIII.
BRYCE, JAMES: The Holy Roman Empire.
BURNET, GILBERT: History of the Reformation of the Church of
  England.
BUTLER, ALBAN: Lives of the Saints.
CARLYLE, THOMAS: Past and Present: The Ancient Monk. Miscellaneous
  Papers: Jesuitism.
CAZENOVE, JOHN G.: St. Hilary of Poitiers and St. Martin of Tours.
CHALIPPE, CANDIDE: The Life of St. Francis of Assisi.
CHILD, GILBERT W.: Church and State Under the Tudors.
CHURCH, R.W.: The Beginning of the Middle Ages.
CLARK, WILLIAM: The Anglican Reformation.
CLARKE, STEPHEN REYNOLDS: Vestigia Anglicana.
CLARKE, JAMES FREEMAN: Events and Epochs in Religious History.
COOK, KENINGALE: The Fathers of Jesus.
COX, G.W.: The Crusaders.
CUTTS, EDWARD LEWES: St. Jerome and St. Augustine.
DILL, SAMUEL: Roman Society in the Last Century of the Western
  Empire.
DRAPER, JOHN WILLIAM: History of the Intellectual Development
  of Europe.
DRAKE, AUGUSTA T.: The History of St. Dominic.
DUGDALE, Sir WILLIAM: Monasticum Anglicanum.
DURUY, VICTOR: History of Rome.
ECKENSTEIN, LINA: Woman Under Monasticism.
EDERSHEIM, ALFRED: The Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah.
ELIOT, SAMUEL: History of Liberty.
FARRAR, FREDERICK W.: The Early Days of Christianity.
FOSBROKE, J.D.: British Monachism.
FROUDE, JAMES ANTHONY: History of England.
FROUDE, JAMES ANTHONY: Short Studies.
GAIRDNER, JAMES, and SPEDDING, JAMES: Studies in English History.
GASQUET, FRANCIS A.: Henry VIII. and the English Monasteries.
GASQUET, FRANCIS A.: The Eve of the Reformation.
GIBBON, EDWARD: Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
GIESELER, J.K.L.: Manual of Church History.
GNEIST, RUDOLPH: History of the English Constitution.
GNEIST, RUDOLPH: The English Parliament.
GREEN, JOHN RICHARD: History of the English People.
GUÉRANGER, PROSPER: Life of St. Cecilia.
GUIZOT, F.P.G.: The History of France.
GUIZOT, F.P.G.: The History of Civilization in Europe.
HALLAM, HENRY: Europe During the Middle Ages.
HALLAM, HENRY: Constitutional History of England.
HALLAM, HENRY: Introduction to the Literature of Europe.
HARDY, R. SPENCER: Eastern Monasticism.
HARDWICK, CHARLES: History of the Christian Church in the Middle
  Ages.
HARNACK, ADOLF: Monasticism: Its Ideals and Its History: Christian
  Literature Magazine, 1894-95.
HILL, O'DELL T.: English Monasticism: Its Rise and Influence.
HUGHES, T.: Loyola and the Educational System of the Jesuits.
HUME, DAVID: The History of England.
JAMESON, ANNA: Legends of the Monastic Orders.
JESSOPP, AUGUSTUS: The Coming of the Friars.
KINGSLEY, CHARLES: The Hermits.
KINGSLEY, CHARLES: Hypatia.
KINGSLEY, CHARLES: The Roman and the Teuton.
LAPPENBERG, J.M.: A History of England Under the Anglo-Saxon
  Kings.
LARNED, J.N.: History for Ready Reference and Topical Reading.
LEA HENRY C.: History of the Inquisition in the Middle Ages.
LEA, HENRY C.: Sacerdotal Celibacy in the Christian Church.
LECKY, WILLIAM E.H.: History of Rationalism in Europe.
LECKY, WILLIAM E.H.: History of European Morals.
LEE F.G.: The Life of Cardinal Pole.
LINGARD, JOHN: History of England.
LINGARD, JOHN: History and Antiquities of the Anglo-Saxon
  Church.
LORD, JOHN: Beacon-Lights of History.
LORD, JOHN: The Old Roman World.
LUDLOW, JAMES M.: The Age of the Crusades.
MACKINTOSH, JAMES: History of England.
MAITLAND, SAMUEL R.: The Dark Ages.
MAITLAND, SAMUEL R.: Essays on the Reformation.
MATHEWS, SHAILER: Social Teachings of Jesus.
MILMAN, HENRY H.: The History of Latin Christianity.
MILMAN, HENRY H.: The History of Christianity.
MONTALEMBERT, C.F.R.: Monks of the West.
MOSHIEM, J.L. VON: Institutes of Ecclesiastical History.
NEANDER, AUGUSTUS: General History of the Christian Religion
  and Church.
OLIPHANT, MARY O.W.: Life of St. Francis of Assisi.
PARKMAN, FRANCIS: The Jesuits in North America in the Seventeenth
  Century.
PIKE, LUKE OWEN: A History of Crime in England.
PUTNAM, G.H.: Books and Their Makers in the Middle Ages.
READE, CHARLES: The Cloister and the Hearth.
RUFFNER, H.: The Fathers of the Desert.
SABATIER, PAUL: Life of St. Francis of Assisi.
SCHAFF, PHILIP: History of the Christian Church.
SCHAFF, PHILIP, and WACE, HENRY, (Editors): The Nicene and
  Post-Nicene Fathers of the Christian Church. (Lives and
  writings of Jerome, Athanasius, Cassian, St. Martin of Tours,
  and other early supporters of the monastic movement).
SCOTT, WALTER: The Monastery.
SCOTT, WALTER: The Abbot.
SIENKIEWICZ, HENRY K.: The Knights of the Cross.
SMITH, PHILIP: Student's Ecclesiastical History.
SMITH, R.F.: St. Basil.
STANLEY, ARTHUR P.: History of the Eastern Church.
STILLÉ, CHARLES J.: Studies in Medieval History.
STORRS, RICHARD S.: Bernard of Clairvaux.
STRYPE, J.: Annals of the Reformation.
STUBBS, WILLIAM: Lectures on the Study of Medieval History.
TAUNTON, ETHELRED L.: The English Black Monks of St. Benedict.
THOMPSON, R.W.: The Footprints of the Jesuits.
THURSTON, H.: The Life of St. Hugh of Lincoln.
TRAILL, H.D.: Social England.
TRENCH, RICHARD C.: Lectures on Medieval Church History.
TREVELYAN, GEORGE M.: England in the Age of Wycliffe.
VAUGHAN, ROBERT: Revolutions in English History.
VAUGHAN, ROBERT: Hours with the Mystics.
WADDINGTON, GEORGE: History of the Church.
WATERMAN, LUCIUS: The Post-Apostolic Age.
WHITE, A.D.: A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology.
WHITE, JAMES: The Eighteen Christian Centuries.
WOODHOUSE, FREDERICK C.: The Military Religious Orders of
  the Middle Ages.

ENCYCLOPÆDIAS: McClintock and Strong, Schaff-Herzog, Brittanica,
  English, and Johnson. (Articles on "Monasticism,"
  "Benedict," "Francis," "Dominic," "Loyola," etc.)

Many other authorities were consulted by the author, but only those works that are easily accessible
and likely to prove of direct value to the student are cited above.

MONKS

AND MONASTERIES

I

MONASTICISM IN THE EAST

The monk is a type of religious character by no means peculiar to Christianity. Every great
religion in ancient and modern times has expressed itself in some form of monastic life.

The origin of the institution is lost in antiquity. Its genesis and gradual progress through
the centuries are like the movement of a mighty river springing from obscure sources, but gathering
volume by the contributions of a multitude of springs, brooks, and lesser rivers, entering
the main stream at various stages in its progress. While the mysterious source of the monastic
stream may not be found, it is easy to discover many different influences and causes that tended
to keep the mighty current flowing majestically on. It is not so easy to determine which of
these forces was the greatest.

"Monasticism," says Schaff, "proceeds from religious seriousness, enthusiasm and ambition;
from a sense of the vanity of the world, and an inclination of noble souls toward solitude,
contemplation, and freedom from the bonds of the flesh and the temptations of the world." A
strong ascetic tendency in human nature, particularly active in the Orient, undoubtedly explains
in a general way the origin and growth of the institution. Various forms of philosophy and
religious belief fostered this monastic inclination from time to time by imparting fresh impetus
to the desire for soul-purity or by deepening the sense of disgust with the world.

India is thought by some to have been the birthplace of the institution. In the sacred writings
of the venerable Hindûs, portions of which have been dated as far back as 2400 B.C., there
are numerous legends about holy monks and many ascetic rules. Although based on opposite philosophical
principles, the earlier Brahminism and the later system, Buddhism, each tended toward ascetic
practices, and they each boast to-day of long lines of monks and nuns.

The Hindoo (Brahmin) ascetic, or naked philosopher, as the Greeks called him, exhausted his
imagination in devising schemes of self-torture. He buried himself with his nose just above
the ground, or wore an iron collar, or suspended weights from his body. He clenched his fists
until the nails grew into his palms, or kept his head turned in one direction until he was
unable to turn it back. He was a miracle-worker, an oracle of wisdom, and an honored saint.
He was bold, spiritually proud, capable of almost superhuman endurance. We will meet him again
in the person of his Christian descendant on the banks of the Nile.

The Buddhist ascetic was, perhaps, less severe with himself, but the general spirit and form
of the institution was and is the same as among the Brahmins. In each religion we observe the
same selfish individualism,--a desire to save one's own soul by slavish obedience to ascetic
rules,--the extinction of natural desires by self-punishment.

The fact to be remembered, however, is that in India, centuries before the Christian Era, there
existed both phases of Christian monasticism, the hermit[A] and the crowded convent.

[Footnote A: Appendix, Note A.]

Dhaquit, a Chaldean ascetic, who is said to have lived about 2000 B.C., is reported to have
earnestly rebuked those who tried to preserve the body from decay by artificial resources.
"Not by natural means," he said, "can man preserve his body from corruption and dissolution
after death, but only through good deeds, religious exercises and offering of sacrifices,--by
invoking the gods by their great and beautiful names, by prayers during the night, and fasts
during the day."

When Father Bury, a Portuguese missionary, first saw the Chinese bonzes, tonsured and using
their rosaries, he cried out, "There is not a single article of dress, or a sacerdotal function,
or a single ceremony of the Romish church, which the Devil has not imitated in this country."
I have not the courage to follow this streamlet back into the devil's heart. The attempt would
be too daring. Who invented shaved heads and monkish gowns and habits, we cannot tell, but
this we know: long before Father Bury saw and described those things in China, there existed
in India the Grand Lama or head monk, with monasteries under him, filled with monks who kept
the three vows of chastity, poverty and obedience. They had their routine of prayers, of fasts
and of labors, like the Christian monks of the middle ages.

Among the Greeks there were many philosophers who taught ascetic principles. Pythagoras, born
about 580 B.C., established a religious brotherhood in which he sought to realize a high ideal
of friendship. His whole plan singularly suggests monasticism. His rules provided for a rigid
self-examination and unquestioning submission to a master. Many authorities claim that the
influence of the Pythagorean philosophy was strongly felt in Egypt and Palestine, after the
time of Christ. "Certain it is that more than two thousand years before Ignatius Loyola assembled
the nucleus of his great society in his subterranean chapel in the city of Paris, there was
founded at Crotona, in Greece, an order of monks whose principles, constitution, aims, method
and final end entitle them to be called 'The Pagan Jesuits[B].'"

[Footnote B: Appendix, Note B.]

The teachings of Plato, no doubt, had a powerful monastic influence, under certain social conditions,
upon later thinkers and upon those who yearned for victory over the flesh. Plato strongly insisted
on an ideal life in which higher pleasures are preferred to lower. Earthly thoughts and ambitions
are to yield before a holy communion with the Divine. Some of his views "might seem like broken
visions of the future, when we think of the first disciples who had all things in common, and,
in later days, of the celibate clergy, and the cloisteral life of the religious orders." The
effect of such philosophy in times of general corruption upon those who wished to acquire exceptional
moral and intellectual power, and who felt unable to cope with the temptations of social life,
may be easily imagined. It meant, in many cases, a retreat from the world to a life of meditation
and soul-conflict. In later times it exercised a marked influence upon ascetic literature.

Coming closer to Christianity in time and in teaching, we find a Jewish sect, called Essenes,
living in the region of the Dead Sea, which bore remarkable resemblances to Christian monasticism.
The origin and development of this band, which numbered four thousand about the time of Christ,
are unknown. Even the derivation of the name is in doubt, there being at least twenty proposed
explanations. The sect is described by Philo, an Alexandrian-Jewish philosopher, who was born
about 25 B.C., and by Josephus, the Jewish historian, who was born at Jerusalem A.D. 37. These
writers evidently took pains to secure the facts, and from their accounts, upon which modern
discussions of the subject are largely based, the following facts are gleaned.

The Essenes were a sect outside the Jewish ecclesiastical body, bound by strict vows and professing
an extraordinary purity. While there were no vows of extreme penance, they avoided cities as
centers of immorality, and, with some exceptions, eschewed marriage. They held aloof from traffic,
oaths, slave-holding, and weapons of offence. They were strict Sabbath observers, wore a uniform
robe, possessed all things in common, engaged in manual labor, abstained from forbidden food,
and probably rejected the bloody sacrifices of the Temple, although continuing to send their
thank-offerings. Novitiates were kept on probation three years. The strictest discipline was
maintained, excommunication following detection in heinous sins. Evidently the standard of
character was pure and lofty, since their emphasis on self-mastery did not end in absurd extravagances.
Their frugal food, simple habits, and love of cleanliness; combined with a regard for ethical
principles, conduced to a high type of life. Edersheim remarks, "We can scarcely wonder that
such Jews as Josephus and Philo, and such heathens as Pliny, were attracted by such an unworldly
and lofty sect."

Some writers maintain that they were also worshipers of the sun, and hence that their origin
is to be traced to Persian sources. Even if so, they seemed to have escaped that confused and
mystical philosophy which has robbed Oriental thought of much power in the realm of practical
life. Philo says, "Of philosophy, the dialectical department, as being in no wise necessary
for the acquisition of virtue, they abandon to the word-catchers; and the part which treats
of the nature of things, as being beyond human nature, they leave to speculative air-gazers,
with the exception of that part of it which deals with the subsistance of God and the genesis
of all things; but the ethical they right well work out."

Pliny the elder, who lived A.D. 23-79, made the following reference to the Essenes, which is
especially interesting because of the tone of sadness and weariness with the world suggested
in its praise of this Jewish sect. "On the western shore (of the Dead Sea) but distant from
the sea far enough to escape from its noxious breezes, dwelt the Essenes. They are an eremite
clan, one marvelous beyond all others in the whole world; without any women, with sexual intercourse
entirely given up, without money, and the associates of palm trees. Daily is the throng of
those that crowd about them renewed, men resorting to them in numbers, driven through weariness
of existence, and the surges of ill-fortune, to their manner of life. Thus it is that through
thousands of ages--incredible to relate!--their society, in which no one is born, lives on
perennial. So fruitful to them is the irksomeness of life experienced by other men."

Admission to the order was granted only to adults, yet children were sometimes adopted for
training in the principles of the sect. Some believed in marriage as a means of perpetuating
the order.

Since it would not throw light on our present inquiry, the mooted question as to the connection
of Essenism and the teachings of Jesus may be passed by. The differences are as great as the
resemblances and the weight of opinion is against any vital relation.

The character of this sect conclusively shows that some of the elements of Christian monasticism
existed in the time of Jesus, not only in Palestine but in other countries. In an account of
the Therapeutæ, or true devotees, an ascetic body similar to the Essenes, Philo says, "There
are many parts of the world in which this class may be found.... They are, however, in greatest
abundance in Egypt."

During Apostolic times various teachings and practices were current that may be characterized
as ascetic. The Apostle Paul, in his letter to the Colossians, doubtless had in mind a sect
or school which despised the body and abstained from meats and wine. A false asceticism, gathering
inspiration from pagan philosophy, was rapidly spreading among Christians even at that early
day. The teachings of the Gnostics, a speculative sect of many schools, became prominent in
the closing days of the Apostolic age or very soon thereafter. Many of these schools claimed
a place in the church, and professed a higher life and knowledge than ordinary Christians possessed.
The Gnostics believed in the complete subjugation of the body by austere treatment.

The Montanists, so called after Montanus, their famous leader, arose in Asia Minor during the
second century, when Marcus Aurelius was emperor. Schaff describes the movement as "a morbid
exaggeration of Christian ideas and demands." It was a powerful and frantic protest against
the growing laxity of the church. It despised ornamental dress and prescribed numerous fasts
and severities.

These facts and many others that might be mentioned throw light on our inquiry in several ways.
They show that asceticism was in the air. The literature, philosophy and religion of the day
drifted toward an ascetic scheme of life and stimulated the tendency to acquire holiness, even
at the cost of innocent joys and natural gratifications. They show that worldliness was advancing
in the church, which called for rebuke and a return to Apostolic Christianity; that the church
was failing to satisfy the highest cravings of the soul. True, it was well-nigh impossible
for the church, in the midst of such a powerful and corrupt heathen environment, to keep itself
up to its standards.

It is a common tradition that in the first three centuries the practices and spirit of the
church were comparatively pure and elevated. Harnack says, "This tradition is false. The church
was already secularized to a great extent in the middle of the third century." She was "no
longer in a position to give peace to all sorts and conditions of men." It was then that the
great exodus of Christians from the villages and cities to mountains and deserts began. Although
from the time of Christ on there were always some who understood Christianity to demand complete
separation from all earthly pleasures, yet it was three hundred years and more before large
numbers began to adopt a hermit's life as the only method of attaining salvation. "They fled
not only from the world, but from the world within the church. Nevertheless, they did not flee
out of the church."

We can now see why no definite cause for the monastic institution can be given and no date
assigned for its origin. It did not commence at any fixed time and definite place. Various
philosophies and religious customs traveled for centuries from country to country, resulting
in singular resemblances and differences between different ascetic or monastic sects. Christian
monasticism was slowly evolved, and gradually assumed definite organization as a product of
a curious medley of Heathen-Jewish-Christian influences.

A few words should be said here concerning the influence of the Bible upon monasticism. Naturally
the Christian hermits and early fathers appealed to the Bible in support of their teachings
and practices. It is not necessary, at this point, to discuss the correctness of their interpretations.
The simple fact is that many passages of scripture were considered as commands to attain perfection
by extraordinary sacrifices, and certain Biblical characters were reverenced as shining monastic
models. In the light of the difficulties of Biblical criticism it is easy to forgive them if
they were mistaken, a question to be discussed farther on. They recalled the commandment of
Jesus to the rich young man to sell all his possessions and give to the poor. They quoted the
words, "Take no thought for the morrow what ye shall eat and what ye shall drink or wherewithal
ye shall be clothed." They construed following Christ to mean in His own words, "forsaking
father, mother, brethren, wife, children, houses and lands." They pointed triumphantly to the
Master himself, unmarried and poor, who had not "where to lay his head." They appealed to Paul's
doctrine of marriage. They remembered that the Church at Jerusalem was composed of those who
sold their possessions and had all things in common. Whatever these and numerous other passages
may truly mean, they interpreted them in favor of a monastic mode of life; they understood
them to teach isolation, fastings, severities, and other forms of rigorous self-denial. Accepting
Scripture in this sense, they trampled upon human affection and gave away their property, that
they might please God and save their souls.

Between the time of Christ and Paul of Thebes, who died in the first half of the fourth century,
and who is usually recognized as the founder of monasticism, many Christian disciples voluntarily
abandoned their wealth, renounced marriage and adopted an ascetic mode of life, while still
living in or near the villages or cities. As the corruption of society and the despair of men
became more widespread, these anxious Christians wandered farther and farther away from fixed
habitations until, in an excess of spiritual fervor, they found themselves in the caves of
the mountains, desolate and dreary, where no sound of human voice broke in upon the silence.
The companions of wild beasts, they lived in rapt contemplation on the eternal mysteries of
this most strange world.

My task now is to describe some of those recluses who still live in the biographies of the
saints and the traditions of the church. Ducis, while reading of these hermits, wrote to a
friend as follows: "I am now reading the lives of the Fathers of the Desert. I am dwelling
with St. Pachomius, the founder of the monastery at Tabenna. Truly there is a charm in transporting
one's self to that land of the angels--one could not wish ever to come out of it." Whether
the reader will call these strange characters angels, and will wish he could have shared their
beds of stone and midnight vigils, I will not venture to say, but at all events his visit will
be made as pleasant as possible.

In writing the life of Mahomet, Carlyle said, "As there is no danger of our becoming, any of
us, Mahometans, I mean to say all the good of Mahomet I justly can." So, without distorting
the picture that has come down to us, I mean to say all the good of these Egyptian hermits
that the facts will justify.

The Hermits of Egypt

Egypt was the mother of Christian monasticism, as she has been of many other wonders.

Vast solitudes; lonely mountains, honey-combed with dens and caves; arid valleys and barren
hills; dreary deserts that glistened under the blinding glare of the sun that poured its heat
upon them steadily all the year; strange, grotesque rocks and peaks that assumed all sorts
of fantastic shapes to the overwrought fancy; in many places no water, no verdure, and scarcely
a thing in motion; the crocodile and the bird lazily seeking their necessary food and stirring
only as compelled; unbounded expanse in the wide star-lit heavens; unbroken quiet on the lonely
mountains--a fit home for the hermit, a paradise to the lover of solitude and peace. As for
the companionless men, who gazed for years upon this glorious scene, they too were of unusual
character, Waddington finely says: "The serious enthusiasm of the natives of Egypt and Asia,
that combination of indolence and energy, of the calmest languor with the fiercest passions,
... disposed them to embrace with eagerness the tranquil but exciting duties of religious seclusion."
Yes, here are the angels of Ducis in real flesh and blood. They revel in the wildest eccentricities
with none to molest or make afraid, always excepting the black demons from the spiritual world.
One dwells in a cave in the bowels of the earth; one lies on the sand beneath a blazing sun;
one has shut himself forever from the sight of man in a miserable hut among the bleak rocks
of yonder projecting peak; one rests with joy in the marshes, breathing with gratitude the
pestilential vapors.

Some of these saints became famous for piety and miraculous power. Athanasius, fleeing from
persecution, visited them, and Jerome sought them out to learn from their own lips the stories
of their lives. To these men and to others we are indebted for much of our knowledge concerning
this chapter of man's history. Less than fifty years after Paul of Thebes died, or about 375
A.D., Jerome wrote the story of his life, which Schaff justly characterizes as "a pious romance."
From Jerome we gather the following account: Paul was the real founder of the hermit life,
although not the first to bear the name. During the Decian persecution, when churches were
laid waste and Christians were slain with barbarous cruelty, Paul and his sister were bereaved
of both their parents. He was then a lad of sixteen, an inheritor of wealth and skilled for
one of his years in Greek and Egyptian learning. He was of a gentle and loving disposition.
On account of his riches he was denounced as a Christian by an envious brother-in-law and compelled
to flee to the mountains in order to save his life. He took up his abode in a cave shaded by
a palm that afforded him food and clothing.

It is impossible to determine how much of the story which follows is historically true. Undoubtedly,
it contains little worthy of belief, but it gives us some faint idea of how these hermits lived.
Its chief value consists in the fact that it preserves a fragment of the monastic literature
of the times--a story which was once accepted as a credible narrative. Imagine the influence
of such a tale, when believed to be true, upon a mind inclined to embrace the doctrines of
asceticism. Its power at that time is not to be measured by its reliability now. Jerome himself
declares in the prologue that many incredible things were related of Paul which he will not
repeat. After reading the following story, the reader may well inquire what more fanciful tale
could be produced even by a writer of fiction.

The blessed Paul was now one hundred and thirteen years old, and Anthony, who dwelt in another
place of solitude, was at the age of ninety. In the stillness of the night it was revealed
to Anthony that deeper in the desert there was a better man than he, and that he ought to see
him. So, at the break of day, the venerable old man, supporting and guiding his weak limbs
with a staff, started out, whither he knew not. At scorching noontide he beholds a fellow-creature,
half man, half horse, called by the poets Hippo-centaur. After gnashing outlandish utterances,
this monster, in words broken, rather than spoken, through his bristling lips, points out the
way with his right hand and swiftly vanishes from the hermit's sight. Anthony, amazed, proceeds
thoughtfully on his way when a mannikin, with hooked snout, horned forehead and goat's feet,
stands before him and offers him food. Anthony asks who he is. The beast thus replies: "I am
a mortal being, and one of those inhabitants of the desert, whom the Gentiles deluded by various
forms of error worship, under the name of Fauns and Satyrs." As he utters these and other words,
tears stream down the aged traveler's face! He rejoices over the glory of God and the destruction
of Satan. Striking the ground with his staff, he exclaims, "Woe to thee, Alexandria, who, instead
of God, worshipest monsters! Woe to thee, harlot city, into which have flowed together the
demons of the world! What will you say now? Beasts speak of Christ, and you, instead of God,
worship monsters." "Let none scruple to believe this incident," says the chronicler, "for a
man of this kind was brought alive to Alexandria and the people saw him; when he died his body
was preserved in salt and brought to Antioch that the Emperor might view him."

Anthony continues to traverse the wild region into which he had entered. There is no trace
of human beings. The darkness of the second night wears away in prayer. At day-break he beholds
far away a she-wolf gasping with parched thirst and creeping into a cave. He draws near and
peers within. All is dark, but perfect love casteth out fear. With halting step and bated breath,
he enters. After a while a light gleams in the distant midnight darkness. With eagerness he
presses forward, but his foot strikes against a stone and arouses the echoes; whereupon the
blessed Paul closes the door and makes it fast. For hours Anthony lay at the door craving admission.
"I know I am not worthy," he humbly cries, "yet unless I see you I will not turn away. You
welcome beasts, why not a man? If I fail, I will die here on your threshold."

     "Such was his constant cry; unmoved he stood,
      To whom the hero thus brief answer made."

"Prayers like these do not mean threats, there is no trickery in tears." So, with smiles, Paul
gives him entrance and the two aged hermits fall into each other's embrace. Together they converse
of things human and divine, Paul, close to the dust of the grave, asks, Are new houses springing
up in ancient cities? What government directs the world? Little did this recluse know of his
fellow-beings and how fared it with the children of men who dwelt in those great cities around
the blue Mediterranean. He was dead to the world and knew it no more.

A raven brought the aged brothers bread to eat and the hours glided swiftly away. Anthony returned
to get a cloak which Athanasius had given him in which to wrap the body of Paul. So eager was
he to behold again his newly-found friend that he set out without even a morsel of bread, thirsting
to see him. But when yet three days' journey from the cave he saw Paul on high among the angels.
Weeping, he trudged on his way. On entering the cave he saw the lifeless body kneeling, with
head erect and hands uplifted. He tenderly wrapped the body in the cloak and began to lament
that he had no implements to dig a grave. But Providence sent two lions from the recesses of
the mountain that came rushing with flying manes. Roaring, as if they too mourned, they pawed
the earth and thus the grave was dug. Anthony, bending his aged shoulders beneath the burden
of the saint's body, laid it lovingly in the grave and departed.

Jerome closes this account by challenging those who do not know the extent of their possessions,--who
adorn their homes with marble and who string house to house,--to say what this old man in his
nakedness ever lacked. "Your drinking vessels are of precious stones; he satisfied his thirst
with the hollow of his hand. Your tunics are wrought of gold; he had not the raiment of your
meanest slave. But on the other hand, poor as he was, Paradise is open to him; you, with all
your gold, will be received into Gehenna. He, though naked, yet kept the robe of Christ; you,
clad in your silks, have lost the vesture of Christ. Paul lies covered with worthless dust,
but will rise again to glory; over you are raised costly tombs, but both you and your wealth
are doomed to burning. I beseech you, reader, whoever you may be, to remember Jerome the sinner.
He, if God would give him his choice, would sooner take Paul's tunics with his merits, than
the purple of kings with their punishment."

Such was the story circulated among rich and poor, appealing with wondrous force to the hearts
of men in those wretched years.

What was the effect upon the mind of the thoughtful? If he believed such teaching, weary of
the wickedness of the age, and moved by his noblest sentiments, he sold his tunics wrought
of gold and fled from his palaces of marble to the desert solitudes.

But the monastic story that most strongly impressed the age now under consideration, was the
biography of Anthony, "the patriarch of monks" and virtual founder of Christian monasticism.
It was said to have been written by Athanasius, the famous defender of orthodoxy and Archbishop
of Alexandria; yet some authorities reject his authorship. It exerted a power over the minds
of men beyond all human estimate. It scattered the seeds of asceticism wherever it was read.
Traces of its influence are found all over the Roman empire, in Egypt, Asia Minor, Palestine,
Italy and Gaul. Knowing the character of Athanasius, we may rest assured that he sincerely
believed all he really recorded (it is much interpolated) of the strange life of Anthony, and,
true or false, thousands of others believed in him and in his story. Augustine, the great theologian
of immortal fame, acknowledged that this book was one of the influences that led to his conversion,
and Jerome, whose life I will review later, was mightily swayed by it.

Anthony was born about 251 A.D., in Upper Egypt, of wealthy and noble parentage. He was a pious
child, an obedient son, and a lover of solitude and books. His parents died when he was about
twenty years old, leaving to his care their home and his little sister. One day, as he entered
the church, meditating on the poverty of Christ, a theme much reflected upon in those days,
he heard these words read from the pulpit, "If thou wouldst be perfect, go and sell all that
thou hast, and give to the poor, and come, follow me." As if the call came straight from heaven
to his own soul, he left the church at once and made over his farm to the people of the village.
He sold his personal possessions for a large sum, and distributed the proceeds among the poor,
reserving a little for his sister. Still he was unsatisfied. Entering the church on another
occasion, he heard our Lord saying in the gospel, "Take no thought for the morrow." The clouds
cleared away. His anxious search for truth and duty was at an end. He went out and gave away
the remnant of his belongings. Placing his sister in a convent, the existence of which is to
be noted, he fled to the desert. Then follows a striking statement, "For monasteries were not
common in Egypt, nor had any monk at all known the great desert; but every one who wished to
devote himself to his own spiritual welfare performed his exercise alone, not far from the
village."

Laboring with his hands, recalling texts of Scripture, praying whole sleepless nights, fasting
for several days at a time, visiting his fellow saints, fighting demons, so passed the long
years away. He slept on a small rush mat, more often on the bare ground. Forgetting past austerities,
he was ever on the search for some new torture and pressing forward to new and strange experiences.
He changed his habitation from time to time. Now he lived in a tomb, in company with the silent
dead; then for twenty years in a deserted castle, full of reptiles, never going out and rarely
seeing any one. From each saint he learned some fresh mode of spiritual training, observing
his practice for future imitation and studying the charms of his Christian character that he
might reproduce them in his own life; thus he would return richly laden to his cell.

But in all these struggles Anthony had one foe--the arch-enemy of all good. He suggests impure
thoughts, but the saint repels them by prayer; he incites to passion, but the hero resists
the fiend with fastings and faith. Once the dragon, foiled in his attempt to overcome Anthony,
gnashed his teeth, and coming out of his body, lay at his feet in the shape of a little black
boy. But the hermit was not beguiled into carelessness by this victory. He resolved to chastise
himself more severely. So he retired to the tombs of the dead. One dark night a crowd of demons
flogged the saint until he fell to the ground speechless with torture. Some friends found him
the next day, and thinking that he was dead, carried him to the village, where his kinsfolk
gathered to mourn over his remains. But at midnight he came to himself, and, seeing but one
acquaintance awake, he begged that he would carry him back to the tombs, which was done. Unable
to move, he prayed prostrate and sang, "If an host be laid against me, yet shall not my heart
be afraid." The enraged devils made at him again. There was a terrible crash; through the walls
the fiends came in shapes like beasts and reptiles. In a moment the place was filled with lions
roaring at him, bulls thrusting at him with their horns, creeping serpents unable to reach
him, wolves held back in the act of springing. There, too, were bears and asps and scorpions.
Mid the frightful clamor of roars, growls and hisses, rose the clear voice of the saint, as
he triumphantly mocked the demons in their rage. Suddenly the awful tumult ceased; the wretched
beings became invisible and a ray of light pierced the roof to cheer the prostrate hero. His
pains ceased. A voice came to him saying, "Thou hast withstood and not yielded. I will always
be thy helper, and will make thy name famous everywhere." Hearing this he rose up and prayed,
and was stronger in body than ever before.

This is but one of numerous stories chronicling Anthony's struggles with the devil. Like conflicts
were going on at that hour in many another cave in those great and silent mountains.

There are also wondrous tales of his miraculous power. He often predicted the coming of sufferers
and healed them when they came. His fame for curing diseases and casting out devils became
so extensive that Egypt marveled at his gifts, and saints came even from Rome to see his face
and to hear his words. His freedom from pride and arrogance was as marked as his fame was great.
He yielded joyful obedience to presbyters and bishops. His countenance was so full of divine
grace and heavenly beauty as to render him easily distinguishable in a crowd of monks. Letters
poured in upon him from every part of the empire. Kings wrote for his advice, but it neither
amazed him nor filled his heart with pride. At his command princes laid aside their crowns,
judges their magisterial robes, while criminals forsook their lives of crime and embraced with
joy the life of the desert.

Once, at the earnest entreaty of some magistrates, he came down from the mountain that they
might see him.

At last the shadows lengthened and waning strength proclaimed that his departure was nigh.
Bidding farewell to his monks, he retired to an inner mountain and laid himself down to die.
His countenance brightened as if he saw his friends coming to see him, and thus his soul was
gathered to his fathers. He is said to have been mourned by fifteen thousand disciples.

This is the story which moved a dying empire. "Anthony," says Athanasius, "became known not
by worldly wisdom, nor by any art, but solely by piety, and that this was the gift of God who
can deny?" The purpose of such a life was, so his biographer thought, to light up the moral
path for men, that they might imbibe a zeal for virtue.

The "Life of St. Anthony" is even more remarkable for its omissions than for its incredible
tales. While I reserve a more detailed criticism of its Christian ideals until a subsequent
chapter, it may be well to quote here a few words from Isaac Taylor. After pointing out some
of its defects he continues: there is "not a word of justification by faith; not a word of
the gracious influence of the Spirit in renewing and cleansing the heart; not a word responding
to any of those signal passages of Scripture which make the Gospel 'Glad Tidings' to guilty
men." This I must confess to be true, even though I may and do heartily esteem the saint's
enthusiasm for righteousness.

So far I have described chiefly the spiritual experiences of these men, but the details of
their physical life are hardly less interesting. There was a holy rivalry among them to excel
in self-torture. Their imaginations were constantly employed in devising unique tests of holiness
and courage. They lived in holes in the ground or in dried up wells; they slept in thorn bushes
or passed days and weeks without sleep; they courted the company of the wildest beasts and
exposed their naked bodies to the broiling sun. Macarius became angry because an insect bit
him and in penitence flung himself into a marsh where he lived for weeks. He was so badly stung
by gnats and flies that his friends hardly knew him. Hilarion, at twenty years of age, was
more like a spectre than a living man. His cell was only five feet high, a little lower than
his stature. Some carried weights equal to eighty or one hundred and fifty pounds suspended
from their bodies. Others slept standing against the rocks. For three years, as it is recorded,
one of them never reclined. In their zeal to obey the Scriptures, they overlooked the fact
that cleanliness is akin to godliness. It was their boast that they never washed. One saint
would not even use water to drink, but quenched his thirst with the dew that fell on the grass.
St. Abraham never washed his face for fifty years. His biographer, not in the least disturbed
by the disagreeable suggestions of this circumstance, proudly says, "His face reflected the
purity of his soul." If so, one is moved to think that the inward light must indeed have been
powerfully piercing, if it could brighten a countenance unwashed for half a century. There
is a story about Abbot Theodosius who prayed for water that his monks might drink. In response
to his petition a stream burst from the rocks, but the foolish monks, overcome by a pitiful
weakness for cleanliness, persuaded the abbot to erect a bath, when lo, the stream dried. Supplications
and repentance availed nothing. After a year had passed, the monks, promising never again to
insult Heaven by wishing for a bath, were granted a second Mosaic miracle.

Thus, unwashed, clothed in rags, their hair uncut, their faces unshaven, they lived for years.
No wonder that to their disordered fancy the desert was filled with devils, the animals spake
and Heaven sent angels to minister unto them.

The Pillar Saint

But the strangest of all strange narratives yet remains. We turn from Egypt to Asia Minor to
make the acquaintance of that saint whom Tennyson has immortalized,--the idol of monarchs and
the pride of the East,--Saint Simeon Stylites. Stories grow rank around him like the luxuriant
products of a tropical soil. How shall I briefly tell of this man, whom Theodoret, in his zeal,
declares all who obey the Roman rule know--the man who may be compared with Moses the Legislator,
David the King and Micah the Prophet? He lived between the years 390 and 459 A.D. He was a
shepherd's son, but at an early age entered a monastery. Here he soon distinguished himself
by his excessive austerities. One day he went to the well, removed the rope from the bucket
and bound it tightly around his body underneath his clothes. A few weeks later, the abbot,
being angry with him because of his extreme self-torture, bade his companions strip him. What
was his astonishment to find the rope from the well sunk deeply into his flesh.

With great trouble they unwound the rope and the flesh with it, and taking care of him until
he was well, they sent him forth to commence a life of austerities that was to render him famous.
He adopted various styles of existence, but his miracles and piety attracted such crowds that
he determined to invent a mode of life which would deliver him from the pressing multitudes.
It is curious that he did not hide himself altogether if he really wished to escape notoriety;
but, no, he would still be within the gaze of admiring throngs. His holy and fanciful genius
hit upon a scheme that gave him his peculiar name. He took up his abode on the top of a column
which was at first about twelve feet high, but was gradually elevated until it measured sixty-four
feet. Hence, he is called Simeon Stylites, or Simeon the Pillar Saint.

On this lofty column, betwixt earth and heaven, the hermit braved the heat and cold of thirty
years. At its base, from morning to night, prayed the admiring worshipers. Kings kneeled in
crowds of peasants to do him homage and ask his blessing. Rude barbarians confessed their sins
in tears. Persians, Greeks, Romans and Saracens, forgetting their mutual hatred, united in
praise and prayer at the feet of this strange character.

Once a week the hero partook of food. Many times a day he bowed his head to his feet; one man
counted twelve hundred and forty-four times and then stopped in sheer weariness from gazing
at the miracle of endurance aloft. Again, from the setting of the sun to its appearance in
the East, he would stand unsoothed by sleep with his arms outstretched like a cross.

If genius can understand such a life as that and fancy the thoughts of such a soul, Tennyson
seems not only to have comprehended the consciousness of the Pillar Saint, but also to have
succeeded in giving expression to his insight. He has laid bare the soul of Simeon in its commingling
of spiritual pride with affected humility, and of a consciousness of meritorious sacrifice
with a sense of sin. The Saint spurns notoriety and the homage of men, yet exults in his control
over the multitudes.

The poet thus imagines Simeon to speak as the Saint is praying God to take away his sin:

     "But yet
     Bethink thee, Lord, while thou and all the saints
     Enjoy themselves in heaven, and men on earth
     House in the shade of comfortable roofs,
     Sit with their wives by fires, eat wholesome food,
     And wear warm clothes, and even beasts have stalls,
     I, 'tween the spring and downfall of the light,
     Bow down one thousand and two hundred times,
     To Christ, the Virgin Mother, and the Saints;
     Or in the night, after a little sleep,
     I wake: the chill stars sparkle; I am wet
     With drenching dews, or stiff with crackling frost.
     I wear an undress'd goatskin on my back;
     A grazing iron collar grinds my neck;
     And in my weak, lean arms I lift the cross,
     And strive and wrestle with thee till I die:
     O mercy, mercy! wash away my sin.

     Good people, you do ill to kneel to me.
     What is it I can have done to merit this?

       *       *       *       *       *

     Yet do not rise; for you may look on me,
     And in your looking you may kneel to God.

Once, the devil, in shape like an angel, riding in a chariot of fire, came to carry Simeon
to the skies. Simeon was deceived, and lifted his foot to step out into the chariot, when the
angel vanished, and in punishment for his presumption an ulcer appeared upon his thigh.

But time plays havoc with saints as well as sinners, and death slays the strongest. Bowed in
prayer, his weary heart ceased to beat and the eyes that gazed aloft were closed forever. Anthony,
his beloved disciple, ascending the column, found that his master was no more. Yet, it seemed
as if Simeon was loath to leave the spot, for his spirit appeared to his weeping follower and
said, "I will not leave this column, and this blessed mountain.

His body was carried down the mountain to Antioch. Heading the solemn procession were the patriarch,
six bishops, twenty-one counts and six thousand soldiers, "and Antioch," says Gibbon, "revered
his bones as her glorious ornament and impregnable defence."

The Cenobites of the East

We cannot linger with these hermits. I pass now to the cenobitic[C] life. We go back in years
and return to Egypt. Man is a social animal, and the social instinct is so strong that even
hermits are swayed by its power and get tired of living apart from one another. When Anthony
died the deserts were studded with hermitages, and those of exceptional fame were surrounded
by little clusters of huts and dens. Into these cells crowded the hermits who wished to be
near their master.

[Footnote C: Appendix, Note C.]

Thus, step by step, organized or cenobitic monasticism easily and naturally came into existence.
The anchorites crawled from their dens every day to hear the words of their chief saint,--a
practice giving rise to stated meetings, with rules for worship. Regulations as to meals, occupations,
dress, penances, and prayers naturally follow.

The author of the first monastic rules is said to have been Pachomius, who was born in Egypt
about the year 292 A.D. He was brought up in paganism but was converted in early life while
in the army. On his discharge he retired with a hermit to Tabenna, an island in the Nile. It
is said he never ate a full meal after his conversion, and for fifteen years slept sitting
on a stone. Natural gifts fitted him to become a leader, and it was not long before he was
surrounded by a congregation of monks for whom he made his rules.

The monks of Pachomius were divided into bands of tens and hundreds, each tenth man being an
under officer in turn subject to the hundredth, and all subject to the superior or abbot of
the mother house. They lived three in a cell, and a congregation of cells constituted a laura
or monastery. There was a common room for meals and worship. Each monk wore a close fitting
tunic and a white goatskin upper garment which was never laid aside at meals or in bed, but
only at the Eucharist. Their food usually consisted of bread and water, but occasionally they
enjoyed such luxuries as oil, salt, fruits and vegetables. They ate in silence, which was sometimes
broken by the solemn voice of a reader.

"No man," says Jerome, "dares look at his neighbor or clear his throat. Silent tears roll down
their cheeks, but not a sob escapes their lips." Their labors consisted of some light handiwork
or tilling the fields. They grafted trees, made beehives, twisted fish-lines, wove baskets
and copied manuscripts. It was early apparent that as man could not live alone so he could
not live without labor. We shall see this principle emphasized more clearly by Benedict, but
it is well to notice that at this remote day provision was made for secular employments. Jerome
enjoins Rusticus, a young monk, always to have some work on hand that the devil may find him
busy. "Hoe your ground," says he, "set out cabbages; convey water to them in conduits, that
you may see with your own eyes the lovely vision of the poet,--

     "Art draws fresh water from the hilltop near,
     Till the stream, flashing down among the rocks,
     Cools the parched meadows and allays their thirst."

There were individual cases of excessive self-torture even among these congregations of monks
but we may say that ordinarily, organized monasticism was altogether less severe upon the individual
than anchoretic life. The fact that the monk was seeking human fellowship is evidence that
he was becoming more humane, and this softening of his spirit betrayed itself in his treatment
of himself. The aspect of life became a little brighter and happier.

Four objects were comprehended in these monastic roles,--solitude, manual labor, fasting and
prayer. We need not pity these dwellers far from walled cities and the marts of trade. Indeed,
they claim no sympathy. Religious ideals can make strange transformations in man's disposition
and tastes. They loved their hard lives.

The hermit Abraham said to John Cassian, "We know that in these, our regions, there are some
secret and pleasant places, where fruits are abundant and the beauty and fertility of the gardens
would supply our necessities with the slightest toil. We prefer the wilderness of this desolation
before all that is fair and attractive, admitting no comparison between the luxuriance of the
most exuberant soil and the bitterness of these sands." Jerome himself exclaimed, "Others may
think what they like and follow each his own bent. But to me a town is a prison and solitude
paradise."

The three vows of chastity, poverty and obedience were adopted and became the foundation stones
of the monastic institution, to be found in every monastic order. There is a typical illustration
in Kingsley's Hypatia of what they meant by obedience. Philammon, a young monk, was consigned
to the care of Cyril, the Bishop of Alexandria, and a factious, cruel man, with an imperious
will. The bishop received and read his letter of introduction and thus addressed its bearer,
"Philammon, a Greek. You are said to have learned to obey. If so, you have also learned to
rule. Your father-abbot has transferred you to my tutelage. You are now to obey me." "And I
will," was the quick response. "Well said. Go to that window and leap forth into the court."
Philammon walked to it and opened it. The pavement was fully twenty feet below, but his business
was to obey and not to take measurements. There was a flower in a vase upon the sill. He quietly
removed it, and in an instant would have leaped for life or death, when Cyril's voice thundered,
"Stop!"

The Pachomian monks despised possessions of every kind. The following pathetic incident shows
the frightful extent to which they carried this principle, and also illustrates the character
of that submission to which the novitiate voluntarily assented: Cassian described how Mutius
sold his possessions and with his little child of eight asked admission to a monastery. The
monks received but disciplined him. "He had already forgotten that he was rich, he must forget
that he was a father." His child was taken, clothed in rags, beaten and spurned. Obedience
compelled the father to look upon his child wasting with pain and grief, but such was his love
for Christ, says the narrator, that his heart was rigid and immovable. He was then told to
throw the boy into the river, but was stopped in the act of obeying.

Yet men, women, and even children, coveted this life of unnatural deprivations. Though the
hermit did not claim to be a god, yet there were more monks in many monasteries than inhabitants
in the neighboring villages. Pachomius had fourteen hundred monks in his own monastery and
seven thousand under his rule. Jerome says fifty thousand monks were sometimes assembled at
Easter in the deserts of Nitria. It was not uncommon for an abbot to command five thousand
monks. St. Serapion boasted of ten thousand. Altogether, so we are told, there were in the
fifth century more than one hundred thousand persons in the monasteries, three-fourths of whom
were men.

The rule of Pachomius spread over Egypt into Syria and Palestine. It was carried by Athanasius
into Italy and Gaul. It existed in various modified forms until it was supplanted by the Benedictine
rule.

Leaving Egypt, again we cross the Mediterranean into Asia Minor. Near the Black Sea, in a wild
forest abounding in savage rocks and gloomy ravines, there dwelt a young man of twenty-six.
He had traveled in Egypt, Syria and Palestine. He had visited the hermits of the desert and
studied philosophy and eloquence in cultured Athens. In virtue eminent, in learning profound,
this poetic soul sought to realize its ideal in a lonely and cherished retreat--in a solitude
of Pontus.

The young monk is the illustrious saint and genius,--Basil the Great,--the Bishop of Cæsarea,
and the virtual founder of the monastic institution in the Greek church. The forest and glens
around his hut belonged to him, and on the other bank of the river Iris his mother and sister
were leading similar lives, having abandoned earthly honors in pursuit of heaven. Hard crusts
of bread appeased his hunger. No fires, except those which burned within his soul, protected
him from the wintry blast. His years were few but well spent. After a while his powerful intellect
asserted itself and he was led into a clearer view of the true spiritual life. His practical
mind revolted against the gross ignorance and meaningless asceticism of Egypt. He determined
to form an order that would conform to the inner meaning of the Bible and to a more sensible
conception of the religious life. For his time he was a wise legislator, a cunning workman
and a daring thinker. The modification of his ascetic ideal was attended by painful struggles.
Many an hour he spent with his bosom friend, Gregory of Nazianza, discussing the subject. The
middle course which they finally adopted is thus neatly described by Gregory:

     "Long was the inward strife, till ended thus:
     I saw, when men lived in the fretful world,
     They vantaged other men, but missed the while
     The calmness, and the pureness of their hearts.
     They who retired held an uprighter post,
     And raised their eyes with quiet strength toward heaven;
     Yet served self only, unfraternally.
     And so, 'twixt these and those, I struck my path,
     To meditate with the free solitary,
     Yet to live secular, and serve mankind."

Monks in large numbers flocked to this mountain retreat of Basil's. These he banded together
in an organization, the remains of which still live in the Greek church. So great is the influence
of his life and teachings, "that it is common though erroneous to call all Oriental monks Basilians."
His rules are drawn up in the form of answers to two hundred and three questions. He added
to the three monastic vows a fourth, which many authorities claim now appeared for the first
time,--namely, that of irrevocable vows--once a monk, always a monk.

Basil did not condemn marriage, but he believed that it was incompatible with the highest spiritual
attainments. For the Kingdom of God's sake it was necessary to forsake all. "Love not the world,
neither the things of the world," embraced to his mind the married state. By avoiding the cares
of marriage a man was sure to escape, so he thought, the gross sensuality of the age. He struck
at the dangers which attend the possession of riches, by enforcing poverty. An abbot was appointed
over his cloisters to whom absolute obedience was demanded. Everywhere men needed this lesson
of obedience. The discipline of the armies was relaxed. The authority of religion was set at
naught; laxity and disorder prevailed even among the monks. They went roaming over the country
controlled only by their whims. Insubordination had to be checked or the monastic institution
was doomed. Hence, Basil was particular to enforce a respect for law and order.

Altogether this was an honest and serious attempt to introduce fresh power into a corrupt age
and to faithfully observe the Biblical commands as Basil understood them. The floods of iniquity
were engulfing even the church. A new standard had to be raised and an inner circle of pious
and zealous believers gathered from the multitude of half-pagan Christians, or all was lost.

The subsequent history of Greek monachism has little interest. In Russia, at a late date, the
Greek monks served some purpose in keeping alive the national spirit under the Tartar yoke,
but the practical benefits to the East were few, in comparison with the vigorous life of the
Western monasticism.

Montalembert, the brilliant champion of Christian monasticism, becomes an adverse critic of
the system in the East, although it is noteworthy he now speaks of monasticism as it appears
in the Greek church, which he holds to be heretical; yet his indictment is quite true: "They
yielded to all the deleterious impulses of that declining society. They have saved nothing,
regenerated nothing, elevated nothing."

We have visited the hermit in the desert and in the monastery governed by its abbot and its
rules. We must view the monk in one other aspect, that of theological champion. Here the hermit
and the monk of the monastery meet on common ground. They were fighters, not debaters; fighters,
not disciplined soldiers; fighters, not persuading Christians. They swarmed down from the mountains
like hungry wolves. They fought heretics, they fought bishops, they fought Roman authorities,
they fought soldiers, and fought one another. Ignorant, fanatical and cruel, they incited riots,
disturbed the public peace and shed the blood of foes.

Theological discord was made a thousand times more bitter by their participation in the controversies
of the time. Furious monks became the armed champions of Cyril, the Bishop of Alexandria. They
insulted the prefect, drove out the Jews and, to the everlasting disgrace of the monks, Cyril
and the church, they dragged the lovely Hypatia from her lecture hall and slew her with all
the cruelty satanic ingenuity could devise. Against a background of black and angry sky she
stands forth, as a soul through whose reason God made himself manifest. Her unblemished character,
her learning and her grace forever cry aloud against an orthodoxy bereft alike of reason and
of the spirit of the Nazarene.

The fighting monks crowded councils and forced decisions. They deposed hostile bishops or kept
their favorites in power by murder and violence. Two black-cowled armies met in Constantinople,
and amid curses fought with sticks and stones a battle of creeds. Cries of "Holy! Holy! Holy!"
mingled with, "It's the day of martyrdom! Down with the tyrant!" The whole East was kept in
a feverish state. The Imperial soldiers confessed their justifiable fears when they said, "We
would rather fight with barbarians than with these monks."

No wonder our perplexity increases and it seems impossible to determine what these men really
did for the cause of truth. We have been unable to distinguish the hermit from the beasts of
the fields. We hear his groans, see his tears, and watch him struggle with demons. We are disgusted
with his filth, amused at his fancies, grieved at his superstition. We pity his agony and admire
his courage. We watch the progress of order and rule out of chaos. We see monasteries grow
up around damp caves and dismal huts. We behold Simeon praying among the birds of heaven, and
look into the face of the young and handsome Basil, in whom the monastic institution of the
East reaches the zenith of its power.

I am free to confess a profound reverence for many of these men determined at all hazards to
keep their souls unspotted from the world. I bow before a passion for righteousness ready to
part with life itself if necessary. Yet the gross extravagances, the almost incredible absurdities
of their unnatural lives compel us to withhold our judgment.

One thing is certain, the strange life of those far-off years is an eloquent testimony to the
indestructible craving of the human soul for self-mastery and soul-purity.

Constantine the Great, the first Christian emperor, who made Christianity the predominant religion
in the Roman Empire, died in 337 A.D. Three years later Rome heard, probably for the first
time, an authentic account of the Egyptian hermits. The story was carried to the Eternal City
by Athanasius, Bishop of Alexandria, one of the most remarkable characters in the early church,
a man of surpassing courage and perseverance, an intrepid foe of heresy, "heroic and invincible,"
as Milton styled him. Twenty of the forty-six years of his official life were spent in banishment.

Athanasius was an intimate friend of the hermit Anthony and a persistent advocate of the ascetic
ideal. When he fled to Rome, in 340, to escape the persecutions of the Arians, he took with
him two specimens of monastic virtue--Ammonius and Isidore. These hermits, so filthy and savage
in appearance, albeit, as I trust, clean in heart, excited general disgust, and their story
of the tortures and holiness of their Egyptian brethren was received with derision. But men
who had faced and conquered the terrors of the desert were not to be so easily repulsed. Aided
by other ascetic travelers from the East they persisted in their propaganda until contempt
yielded to admiration. The enthusiasm of the uncouth hermits became contagious. The Christians
in Rome now welcomed the story of the recluses as a Divine call to abandon a dissolute society
for the peace and joy of a desert life.

But before this transformation of public opinion can be appreciated, it is needful to know
something of the social and religious condition of Rome in the days when Athanasius and his
hermits walked her streets.

After suffering frightful persecutions for three centuries, the Church had at last nominally
conquered the Roman Empire; nominally, because although Christianity was to live, the Empire
had to die. The death-throes were long and lingering, as befits the end of a mighty giant,
but death was certain. There are many facts which explain the inability of a conquering faith
to save a tottering empire, but it is impracticable for us to enter upon that wide field. Some
help may be gained from that which follows.

Of morals, Rome was destitute. She possessed the material remains and superficial acquirements
of a proud civilization, such as great public highways, marble palaces, public baths, temples
and libraries. Elegance of manners and acquisitions of wealth indicate specious outward refinement.
But these things are not sufficient to guarantee the permanence of institutions or the moral
welfare of a nation. In the souls of men there was a fatal degeneracy. There was outward prosperity
but inward corruption.

Professor Samuel Dill, in his highly instructive work on "Roman Society in the Last Century
of the Western Empire," points out the fact that Rome's fall was due to economic and political
causes as well as to the deterioration of her morals. A close study of these causes, however,
will reveal the presence of moral influences. Professor Dill says: "The general tendency of
modern inquiry has to discover in the fall of that august and magnificent organization, not
a cataclysm, precipitated by the impact of barbarous forces, but a process slowly prepared
and evolved by internal and economic causes." Two of these causes were the dying out of municipal
liberty and self-government, and the separation of the upper class from the masses by sharp
distributions of wealth and privilege. It is indeed true that these causes contributed to Rome's
ruin; that the central government was weak; that the civil service was oppressive and corrupt;
that the aristocratic class was selfish; and that the small landed proprietors were steadily
growing poorer and fewer, while, on the contrary, the upper or senatorial class was increasing
in wealth and power. But after due emphasis has been accorded to these destructive factors,
it yet remains true that the want of public spirit and the prevailing cultivated selfishness
may be traced to a decline of faith in those religious ideals that serve to stimulate the moral
life and thus preserve the national integrity.

Society was divided into three classes. It is computed that one-half the population were slaves.
A large majority of the remainder were paupers, living on public charity, and constituting
a festering sore that threatened the life of the social organism. The rich, who were relatively
few, squandered princely incomes in a single night, and exhausted their imaginations devising
new and expensive forms of sensuous pleasure. The profligacy of the nobles almost surpasses
credibility, so that trustworthy descriptions read like works of fiction. The frivolity of
the social and political leaders of Rome, the insane thirst for lust and luxury, the absence
of seriousness in the face of frightful, impending ruin, almost justify the epigram of Silvianus,
"Rome was laughing when she died."

     "On that hard pagan world disgust
     And secret loathing fell;
     Deep weariness and sated lust
     Made human life a hell.
     In his cool hall, with haggard eyes,
     The Roman noble lay;
     He drove abroad in furious guise
     Along the Appian Way;
     He made a feast, drank fierce and fast,
     And crowned his hair with flowers
     No easier nor no guicker past
     The impracticable hours."

Pagan mythology and Pagan philosophy were powerless to resist this downward tendency. Although
Christianity had become the state religion, it was itself in great danger of yielding to the
decay that prevailed. The Empire was, in fact, but nominally Christian. Thousands of ecclesiastical
adherents were half pagan in their spirit and practice. Harnack declares, "They were too deeply
affected by Christianity to abandon it, but too little to be Christians. Pure religious enthusiasm
waned, ideals received a new form, and the dependence and responsibility of individuals became
weaker." Even ordinary courage had everywhere declined and the pleasures of the senses controlled
the heart of Christian society.

Many of the men who should have resisted this gross secularization of the church, who ought
to have set their faces against the departure from apostolic ideals by exalting the standards
of the earlier Christianity; these men, the clergy of the Christian church, had deserted their
post of duty and surrendered to the prevailing worldliness.

Jerome describes, with justifiable sarcasm, these moral weaklings, charged with the solemn
responsibility of preaching a pure gospel to a dying empire. "Such men think of nothing but
their dress; they use perfumes freely, and see that there are no creases in their leather shoes.
Their curling hair shows traces of the tongs; their fingers glisten with rings; they walk on
tiptoe across a damp road, not to splash their feet. When you see men acting that way, think
of them rather as bridegrooms than as clergymen. If he sees a pillow that takes his fancy,
or an elegant table-cover, or, indeed, any article of furniture, he praises it, looks admiringly
at it, takes it into his hand, and, complaining that he has nothing of the kind, begs or rather
extorts it from its owner." Such trifling folly was fatal. The times demanded men of vigorous
spirit, who dared to face the general decline, and cry out in strong tones against it. The
age needed moral warriors, with the old Roman courage and love of sacrifice; martyrs willing
to rot in prison or shed their blood in the street, not effeminate men, toying with fancy table-covers
and tiptoeing across a sprinkled road.

But there were many pure and sincere Christians--a saving remnant. The joyous alacrity with
which men and women responded to the monastic call, and entered upon careers of self-torture
for the sake of deliverance from moral corruption, shows that the spirit of true faith was
not extinct. "The glory of that age," says Professor Dill, "is the number of those who were
capable of such self-surrender; and an age should be judged by its ideals, not by the mediocrity
of conventional religion masking worldly self-indulgence. This we have always with us; the
other we have not always."

Yet the sad fact remains that the transforming power of Christianity was practically helpless
before the surging floods of vice and superstition. The noble struggles of a few saints were
as straws in a hurricane. The church had all she could do to save herself. Even in the early
days of Christianity the ruin of Rome was impending, but, at that time, the adherents of the
Christian religion were few and poor. They did not possess enough power and influence to save
the state. When monasticism came to Rome, the lords of the church were getting ready to sit
upon the thrones of princes, but the dazzling victory of the church was not a spiritual conquest
of sin, so the last ray of hope for the Empire was extinguished. Her fall was inevitable.

With this outlined picture in mind, fancy Athanasius and his monks at Rome. These men despise
luxury and contemn riches. They have come to make Rome ring with the old war cries,--although
they wrestled not against flesh and blood, but against spiritual wickedness in high places.
Terror and despair are on every side, but they are not afraid. They know what it means to face
the demons of the desert, to lie down at night with wild beasts for companions. They have not
yielded to the depravity of the human heart and the temptations of a licentious age. They have
conquered sinful appetites by self-abnegation and fasting. They come to a distracted society
with a message of peace--a peace won by courageous self-sacrifice. They call men to save their
perishing souls by surrendering their wills to God and enlisting in a campaign against the
powers of darkness. They appeal to the ancient spirit of courage and love of hardship. They
arouse the dormant moral energies of the profligate nobles, proud of the past and sick of the
present. The story of Anthony admonished Rome that a life of sensuous gratification was inglorious,
unworthy of the true Roman, and that the flesh could be mastered by heroic endeavor.

Women, who spent their hours in frivolous amusements, welcomed with gratitude the discovery
that they could be happy without degradation, and joyfully responded to the call of righteousness.
"Despising themselves," says Kingsley, "despising their husbands to whom they had been wedded
in loveless wedlock, they too fled from a world which had sated and sickened them."

Woman's natural craving for lofty friendships and pure aspirations found satisfaction in the
monastic ideal. She fled from the incessant broils of a corrupt court, from the courtesans
that usurped the place of the wife, from the insolence and selfishness of men who scorned even
the appearance of virtue and did not hesitate to degrade even their wives and sisters.

Therefore did the women hear with tremulous eagerness the story of the saintly inhabitants
of the desert, and flinging away their trinkets, they hastened to the solitude of the cell,
there to mourn their folly and seek pardon and peace at the feet of the Most High.

Likewise, the men, born to nobler tasks than fawning upon princes and squandering life and
fortune in gluttony and debauchery, blushed for shame, and abandoned forever the company of
sensualists and parasites. Potitianus, a young officer of rank, read the life of Anthony, and
cried to his fellow-soldier: "Tell me, I pray thee, whither all our labors tend? What do we
seek? For whom do we carry arms? What can be our greatest hope in the palace but to be friend
to the Emperor? And how frail is that fortune! What perils! When shall this be?" Inspired by
the monastic story he exchanged the friendship of the Emperor for the friendship of God, and
the military life lost all its attractiveness.

A philosopher and teacher hears the same narrative, and his countenance becomes grave; he seizes
the arm of Alypius, his friend, and earnestly asks: "What, then, are we doing? How is this?
What hast thou been hearing? These ignorant men rise; they take Heaven by force, and we, with
our heartless sciences, behold us wallowing in the flesh and in our blood! Is it shameful to
follow them, and are we not rather disgraced by not following them?" So, disgusted with his
self-seeking career, his round of empty pleasures, he, too, is moved by this higher call to
abandon his wickedness and devote his genius to the cause of righteousness.

Ambrose, Paulinus, Chrysostom, Basil, Gregory, and many others, holding important official
posts or candidates for the highest honors, abandoned all their chances of political preferment
in order to preach the gospel of ascetic Christianity.

Yes, for good or evil, Rome is profoundly stirred. The pale monk, in all his filth and poverty,
is the master of the best hearts in the capital. Every one in whom aspiration is still alive,
who longs for some new light, and all who vaguely grope after a higher life, hear his voice
and become pliant to his will.

"Great historic movements," says Grimke, "are born not in whirlwinds, in earthquakes, and pomps
of human splendor and power, but in the agonies and enthusiasms of grand, heroic spirits."
Monastic history, like secular, centers in the biographies of such great men as Anthony, Basil,
Jerome, Benedict, Francis, Dominic and Loyola. To understand the character of the powerful
forces set in motion by the coming of the monks to Rome, it is necessary to know the leading
spirits whose preeminent abilities and lofty personalities made Western monasticism what it was.

The time is about 418 A.D.; the place, a monastery in Bethlehem, near the cave of the Nativity.
In a lonely cell, within these monastic walls, we shall find the man we seek. He is so old
and feeble that he has to be raised in his bed by means of a cord affixed to the ceiling. He
spends his time chiefly in reciting prayers. His voice, once clear and resonant, sinks now
to a whisper. His failing vision no longer follows the classic pages of Virgil or dwells fondly
on the Hebrew of the Old Testament. This is Saint Jerome, the champion of asceticism, the biographer
of hermits, the lion of Christian polemics, the translator of the Bible, and the worthy, brilliant,
determined foe of a dissolute society and a worldly church. Although he spent thirty-four years
of his life in Palestine, I shall consider Jerome in connection with the monasticism of the
West, for it was in Rome that he exercised his greatest influence. His translation of the Scriptures
is the Vulgate of the Roman church, and his name is enrolled in the calendar of her saints.
"He is," observes Schaff "the connecting link between the Eastern and Western learning and
religion."

By charming speech and eloquent tongue Jerome won over the men, but principally the women,
of Rome to the monastic life. So powerful was his message when addressed to the feminine heart,
that mothers are said to have locked their daughters in their rooms lest they should fall under
the influence of his magnetic voice. It was largely owing to his own labors that he could write
in after years: "Formerly, according to the testimony of the apostles, there were few rich,
few noble, few powerful among the Christians. Now, it is no longer so. Not only among the Christians,
but among the monks are to be found a multitude of the wise, the noble and the rich."

Near to the very year that Athanasius came to Rome, or about 340 A.D., Jerome was born at Stridon,
in Dalmatia, in what is now called the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. His parents were modestly
wealthy and were slaveholders. His student days were spent in Rome, where he divided his time
between the study of books and the revels of the streets. One day some young Christians induced
him to visit the catacombs with them. Here, before the graves of Christian martyrs, a quiet
and holy influence stole into his heart, that finally led to his conversion and baptism. Embracing
the monastic ideal, he gathered around him a few congenial friends, who joined him in a covenant
of rigid abstinence and ascetic discipline. Then followed a year of travel with these companions,
through Asia Minor, ending disastrously at Antioch. One of his friends returned home, two of
them died, and he himself became so sick with fever that his life was despaired of. Undismayed
by these evils, brought on by excessive austerities, he determined to retire to a life of solitude.

About fifty miles southeast from Antioch was a barren waste of nature but a paradise for monks--the
Desert of Chalcis. On its western border were several monasteries. All about for miles, the
dreary solitudes were peopled with shaggy hermits. They saw visions and dreamed dreams in caves
infested by serpents and wild beasts. They lay upon the sands, scorched in summer by the blazing
sun, and chilled in winter by the winds that blew from snowcapped mountains. For five years,
Jerome dwelt among these demon-fighting recluses. Clad in sackcloth stained by penitential
tears, he toiled for his daily bread, and struggled against visions of Roman dancing girls.
He was a most industrious reader of books and a great lover of debate. Monks from far and near
visited him, and together they discussed questions of theology and philosophy.

But we may not follow this varied and eventful life in all its details. After a year or two
spent at Constantinople, and three years at Rome, he returned to the East, visiting the hermits
of Egypt on his way, and finally settled at Bethlehem. His fame soon drew around him a great
company of monks. These he organized into monasteries. He built a hospital, and established
an inn for travelers. Lacking the necessary funds to carry out his projects, he dispatched
his brother to the West with instructions to sell what was left of his property, and the proceeds
of this sale he devoted to the cause. While in Bethlehem he wrote defences of orthodoxy, eulogies
of the dead, lives of saints and commentaries on the Bible. He also completed his translation
of the Scriptures, and wrote numerous letters to persons dwelling in various parts of the empire.

Jerome rendered great service to monasticism by his literary labors. He invested the dullest
of lives with a halo of glory; under the magic touch of his rhetoric the wilderness became
a gladsome place and the desert blossomed as the rose. His glowing language transfigured the
pale face and sunken eyes of the starved hermit into features positively beautiful, while the
rags that hung loosely upon his emaciated frame became garments of lustrous white. "Oh, that
I could behold the desert," he cries, "lovelier than any city! Oh, that I could see those lonely
spots made into a paradise by the saints that throng them!" Without detracting from the bitterness
of the prospect, he glorifies the courage that can face the horrors of the desert, and the
heart that can rejoice midst the solitude of the seas. Hear him describe the home of Bonosus,
a hermit on an isle in the Adriatic:

"Bonosus, your friend, is now climbing the ladder foreshown in Jacob's dream. He is bearing
his cross, neither taking thought for the morrow, nor looking back at what he has left. Here
you have a youth, educated with us in the refining accomplishments of the world, with abundance
of wealth and in rank inferior to none of his associates; yet he forsakes his mother, his sister,
and his dearly loved brother, and settles like a new tiller of Eden on a dangerous island,
with the sea roaring round its reefs, while its rough crags, bare rocks and desolate aspect
make it more terrible still.... He sees the glory of God which even the apostles saw not, save
in the desert. He beholds, it is true, no embattled towns, but he has enrolled his name in
the new city. Garments of sackcloth disfigure his limbs, yet so he will the sooner be caught
up to meet Christ in the clouds. Round the entire island roars the frenzied sea, while the
beetling crags along its winding shores resound as the billows beat against them. Precipitous
cliffs surround his dreadful abode as if it were a prison. He is careless, fearless, armed
from head to foot in the apostles' armor."

Listen to these trumpet tones as Jerome calls to a companion of his youth in Rome: "O desert,
enamelled with the flowers of Christ! O retreat, which rejoicest in the friendship of God!
What dost thou in the world, my brother, with thy soul greater than the world? How long wilt
thou remain in the shadow of roofs, and in the smoky dungeons of cities? Believe me, I see
here more light."

To pass hastily over such appeals, coming from distant lands across the sea to stir the minds
of the thoughtful in Rome, is to ignore one of the causes which produced the great exodus that
followed. He made men see that they were living in a moral Sodom, and that if they would save
their souls they must escape to the desert. The power of personal influence, of inspiring private
letters, can hardly be overemphasized in studying the remarkable progress of asceticism. Great
awakenings in the moral, as in the political or the social world, may be traced to the profound
influence of individuals, whose prophetic insight and moral enthusiasm unfold the germ of the
larger movements. There may be widespread unrest, the ground may be prepared for the seed,
but the immediate cause of universal uprisings is the clarion call of genius. Thus Luther's
was the voice that cried in the wilderness, inciting a vast host for whom centuries had been
preparing.

But Jerome's fame as a man of learning, possessing a critical taste and a classic style of
rare beauty and simplicity, must not blind us to the crowning glory of his brilliant career.
He was above all a spiritual force. His chief appeal was to the conscience. He warmed the most
torpid hearts by the fervor of his love, and encouraged the most hopeless by his fiery zeal
and heroic faith. As a promoter of monasticism, he clashed with the interests of an enfeebled
clergy and a corrupt laity. Nothing could swerve him from his course. False monks might draw
terrible rebukes from him, but the conviction that the soul could be delivered from captivity
to the body only by mortification remained unshaken. He induced men to break the fetters of
society that they might, under the more favorable circumstances of solitude, wage war against
their unruly passions.

When parents objected to his monastic views, Jerome quoted the saying of Jesus respecting the
renunciation of father and mother, and then said: "Though thy mother with flowing hair and
rent garments, should show thee the breasts which have nourished thee; though thy father should
lie upon the threshold; yet depart thou, treading over thy father, and fly with dry eyes to
the standard of the cross. The love of God and the fear of hell easily rend the bonds of the
household asunder. The Holy Scripture indeed enjoins obedience, but he who loves them more
than Christ loses his soul."

Jerome vividly portrays his own spiritual conflicts. The deserts were crowded with saintly
soldiers battling against similar temptations, the nature of which is suggested by the following
excerpt from Jerome's writings: "How often," he says, "when I was living in the desert, in
the vast solitude which gives to hermits a savage dwelling-place, parched by a burning sun,
how often did I fancy myself among the pleasures of Rome! I used to sit alone because I was
filled with bitterness. Sack-cloth disfigured my unshapely limbs and my skin from long neglect
had become black as an Ethiopian's. Tears and groans were every day my portion; and if drowsiness
chanced to overcome my struggles against it, my bare bones, which hardly held together, clashed
against the ground. Now although in my fear of hell I had consigned myself to this prison where
I had no companions but scorpions and wild beasts, I often found myself amid bevies of girls.
Helpless, I cast myself at the feet of Jesus, I watered them with my tears, and I subdued my
rebellious body with weeks of abstinence. I remember how I often cried aloud all night till
the break of day. I used to dread my cell as if it knew my thoughts, and stern and angry with
myself, I used to make my way alone into the desert. Wherever I saw hollow valleys, craggy
mountains, steep cliffs, there I made my oratory; there the house of correction for my unhappy
flesh. There, also, when I had shed copious tears and had strained my eyes to heaven, I sometimes
felt myself among angelic hosts and sang for joy and gladness."

No doubt these men were warring against nature. Their yielding to the temptation to obtain
spiritual dominance by self-flagellation and fasting may be criticized in the light of modern
Christianity. "Fanaticism defies nature," says F.W. Robertson, "Christianity refines it and
respects it. Christianity does not denaturalize, but only sanctifies and refines according
to the laws of nature. Christianity does not destroy our natural instincts, but gives them
a higher and nobler direction." To all this I must assent, but, at the same time, I cannot
but reverence that pure passion for holiness which led men, despairing of acquiring virtue
in a degenerate age, to flee from the world and undergo such torments to attain their soul's
ideal. The form, the method of their conflict was transient, the spirit and purpose eternal.
All honor to them for their magnificent and terrible struggle, which has forever exalted the
spiritual ideal, and commanded men everywhere to seek first "the Kingdom of God and its righteousness."

Jerome was always fond of the classics, although pagan writers were not in favor with the early
Christians. One night he dreamed he was called to the skies where he was soundly flogged for
reading certain pagan authors. This vision interrupted his classical studies for a time. In
later years he resumed his beloved Virgil; and he vigorously defended himself against those
who charged him with being a Pagan and an apostate on account of his love for Greek and Roman
literature. If his admiration for Virgil was the Devil's work, I but give the Devil his due
when I declare that much of the charm of Jerome's literary productions is owing to the inspiration
of classic models.

Our attention must now be transferred from Jerome to the high-born Roman matrons, who laid
off their silks that they might clothe themselves in the humble garb of the nun. As the narrative
proceeds I shall let Jerome speak as often as possible, that the reader may become acquainted
with the style of those biographies and eulogies which were the talk of Rome, and which have
been admired so highly by succeeding generations.

Those who embraced monasticism in Rome did so in one of two ways. Some sold their possessions,
adopted coarse garments, and subsisted on the plainest food, but they did not leave the city
and were still to be seen upon the streets. Jerome writes to Pammachius: "Who would have believed
that a last descendant of the consuls, an ornament of the race of Camillus, could make up his
mind to traverse the city in the black robe of a monk, and should not blush to appear thus
clad in the midst of senators." Some of those who remained at Rome established a sort of retreat
for their ascetic friends.

But another class left Rome altogether. Some took up their abode on the rugged isles of the
Adriatic or the Mediterranean. Large numbers of them went to the East, principally to Palestine.
Jerome was practically the abbot of a Roman colony of monks and nuns. Two motives, beside the
general ruling desire to achieve holiness, produced this exodus to the Holy Land, which culminated
centuries later in the crusades. One was a desire to see the deserts and caves, the abode of
hermits famous for piety and miracles. Jerome, as I have shown, invested these lonely retreats
and strange characters with a sort of holy romance, and hence, faith, mingled with curiosity,
led men to the East. Another motive was the desire to visit the land of the Saviour, to tread
the soil consecrated by his labors of love, to live a life of poverty in the land where He
had no home He could call his own.

St. Paula was one of the women who left Rome and went to Palestine. The story of her life is
told in a letter designed to comfort her daughter Eustochium at the time of Paula's death.
The epistle begins: "If all the members of my body were to be converted into tongues, and if
each of my limbs were to be gifted with a human voice, I could still do no justice to the virtues
of the holy and venerable Paula. Of the stock of the Gracchi, descended from the Scipios, she
yet preferred Bethlehem to Rome, and left her palace glittering with gold to dwell in a mud
cabin." Her husband was of royal blood and had died leaving her five children. At his death,
she gave herself to works of charity. The poor and sick she wrapped in her own blankets. She
began to tire of the receptions and other social duties which her position entailed upon her.
While in this frame of mind, two Eastern bishops were entertained at her home during a gathering
of ecclesiastics. They seem to have imparted the monastic impulse, perhaps by the rehearsal
of monastic tales, for we are informed that at this time she determined to leave servants,
property and children, in order to embrace the monastic life.

Let us stand with her children and kinsfolk on the shore of the sea as they take their final
farewell of Paula. "The sails were set and the strokes of the rowers carried the vessel into
the deep. On the shore little Toxotius stretched forth his hands in entreaty, while Rufina,
now grown up, with silent sobs besought her mother to wait until she should be married. But
still Paula's eyes were dry as she turned them heavenwards, and she overcame her love for her
children by her love for God. She knew herself no more as a mother that she might approve herself
a handmaid of Christ. Yet her heart was rent within her, and she wrestled with her grief as
though she were being forcibly separated from parts of herself. The greatness of the affection
she had to overcome made all admire her victory the more. Though it is against the laws of
nature, she endured this trial with unabated faith."

So the vessel ploughed onward, carrying the mother who thought she was honoring God and attaining
the true end of being through ruthless strangling of maternal love. She visited Syria and Egypt
and the islands of Ponta and Cyprus. At the feet of the hermit fathers she begged their blessing
and tried to emulate the virtues she believed they possessed. At Jerusalem she fell upon her
face and kissed the stone before the sepulcher. "What tears, she shed, what groans she uttered,
what grief she poured out all Jerusalem knows!"

She established two monasteries at Bethlehem, one of which was for women. Here, with her daughter,
she lived a life of rigid abstinence. Her nuns had nothing they could call their own. If they
paid too much attention to dress Paula said, "A clean body and a clean dress mean an unclean
soul." To her credit, she was more lenient with others than with herself. Jerome admits she
went to excess, and prudently observes: "Difficult as it is to avoid extremes, the philosophers
are quite right in their opinion that virtue is a mean and vice an excess, or, as we may express
it in one short sentence, in nothing too much." Paula swept floors and toiled in the kitchen.
She slept on the ground, covered by a mat of goat's hair. Her weeping was incessant. As she
meditated over the Scriptures, her tears fell so profusely that her sight was endangered. Jerome
warned her to spare her eyes, but she said: "I must disfigure that face which, contrary to
God's commandment, I have painted with rouge, white lead and antimony." If this be a sin against
the Almighty, bear witness, O ye daughters of Eve! Her love for the poor continued to be the
motive of her great liberality. In fact, her giving knew no bounds. Fuller wisely remarks that
"liberality must have banks as well as a stream;" but Paula said: "My prayer is that I may
die a beggar, leaving not a penny to my daughter and indebted to strangers for my winding sheet."
Her petition was literally granted, for she died leaving her daughter not only without a penny
but overwhelmed in a mass of debts.

As Jerome approaches the description of Paula's death, he says: "Hitherto the wind has all
been in my favor and my keel has smoothly ploughed through the heaving sea. But now my bark
is running upon the rocks, the billows are mountain high, and imminent shipwreck awaits me."
Yet Paula, like David, must go the way of all the earth. Surrounded by her followers chanting
psalms, she breathed her last. An immense concourse of people attended her funeral. Not a single
monk lingered in his cell. Thus, the twenty hard years of self-torture for this Roman lady
of culture ended in the rest of the grave.

Upon her tombstone was placed this significant inscription:

     "Within this tomb a child of Scipio lies,
     A daughter of the far-famed Pauline house,
     A scion of the Gracchi, of the stock
     Of Agamemnon's self, illustrious:
     Here rests the lady Paula, well beloved
     Of both her parents, with Eustochium
     For daughter; she the first of Roman dames
     Who hardship chose and Bethlehem for Christ."

Another interesting character of that period was Marcella, a beautiful woman of illustrious
lineage, a descendant of consuls and prefects. After a married life of seven years her husband
died. She determined not to embark on the matrimonial seas a second time, but to devote herself
to works of charity. Cerealis, an old man, but of consular rank, offered her his fortune that
he might consider her less his wife than his daughter. "Had I a wish to marry," was her noble
reply, "I should look for a husband and not for an inheritance." Disdaining all enticements
to remain in society, she began her monastic career with joy and turned her home into a retreat
for women who, like herself, wished to retire from the world. It is not known just what rules
governed their relations, but they employed the time in moderate fasting, prayers and alms-giving.

Marcella lavished her wealth upon the poor. Jerome praises her philanthropic labors thus: "Our
widow's clothing was meant to keep out the cold and not to show her figure. She stored her
money in the stomachs of the poor rather than to keep it at her own disposal." Seldom seen
upon the streets, she remained at home, surrounded by virgins and widows, obedient and loving
to her mother. Among the high-born women it was regarded as degrading to assume the costume
of the nun, but she bore the scorn of her social equals with humility and grace.

This quiet and useful life was rudely and abruptly ended by a dreadful catastrophe. Alaric
the Goth had seized and sacked Rome. The world stood aghast. The sad news reached Jerome in
his cell at Bethlehem, who expressed his sorrow in forceful language: "My voice sticks in my
throat; and as I dictate, sobs choke my utterance. The city which has taken the whole world
is itself taken." Rude barbarians invaded the sanctity of Marcella's retreat. They demanded
her gold, but she pointed to the coarse dress she wore to show them she had no buried treasures.
They did not believe her, and cruelly beat her with cudgels. A few days after the saintly heroine
of righteousness went to her long home to enjoy richly-merited rest and peace.

     "Who can describe the carnage of that night?
     What tears are equal to its agony?
     Of ancient date a sovran city falls;
     And lifeless in its streets and houses lie
     Unnumbered bodies of its citizens.
     In many a ghastly shape doth death appear."

Marcella and her monastic home fell in the general ruin, but in the words of Horace, she left
"a monument more enduring than brass." Her noble life, so full of kind words and loving deeds,
still stirs the hearts of her sisters who, while they may reject her ascetic ideal, will, nevertheless,
try to emulate her noble spirit. As Jerome said of Paula: "By shunning glory she earned glory;
for glory follows virtue as its shadow; and deserting those who seek it, it seeks those who
despise it."

Still another woman claims our attention,--Fabiola, the founder of the first hospital. Lecky
declares that "the first public hospital and the charity planted by that woman's hand overspread
the world, and will alleviate to the end of time the darkest anguish of humanity." She, too,
was a widow who refused to marry again, but broke up her home, sold her possessions, and with
the proceeds founded a hospital into which were gathered the sick from the streets. She nursed
the sufferers and washed their ulcers and wounds. No task was beneath her, no sacrifice of
personal comfort too great for her love. Many helped her with their gold, but she gave herself.
She also aided in establishing a home for strangers at Portus, which became one of the most
famous inns of the time. Travelers from all parts of the world found a welcome and a shelter
on landing at this port. When she died the roofs of Rome were crowded with those who watched
the funeral procession. Psalms were chanted, and the gilded ceilings of the churches resounded
to the music in commendation of her loving life and labors.

These and other characters of like zeal and fortitude exemplify the spirit of the men and women
who interested the West in monasticism. Much as their errors and extravagances may be deplored,
there is no question that some of them were types of the loftiest Christian virtues, inspired
by the most laudable motives. We must confess that in these women the spirit of the old Roman
matrons, which seemed to have been dead so long, flashed up for one splendid moment ere it
sank into the darkness of the middle ages."

Monasticism and Women

The origin of nunneries was coeval with that of monasteries, and the history of female recluses
runs parallel to that of the men. Almost every male order had its counterpart in some sort
of a sisterhood. The general moral character of these female associations was higher than that
of the male organizations. I have confined my treatment in this work to the monks, but a few
words may be said at this point concerning female ascetics.

Hermit life was unsuited to women, but we know that at a very early date many of them retired
to the seclusion of convent life. It will be recalled that in the biography of St. Anthony,
before going into the desert he placed his sister in the care of some virgins who were living
a life of abstinence, apart from society. It is very doubtful if any uniform rule governed
these first religious houses, or if definitely organized societies appear much before the time
of Benedict. The variations in the monastic order among the men were accompanied by similar
changes in the associations of women.

The history of these sisterhoods discloses three interesting and noteworthy facts that merit
brief mention:

First, the effect of a corrupt society upon women. As in the case of men, women were moved
to forsake their social duties because they were weary of the sensual and aimless life of Rome.
Those were the days of elaborate toilettes, painted faces and blackened eyelids, of intrigues
and foolish babbling. Venial faults--it may be thought--innocent displays of tender frailty;
but woman's nature demands loftier employments. A great soul craves occupations and recognizes
obligations more in harmony with the true nobility of human nature. Rome had no monitor of
the higher life until the monks came with their stories of heroic self-abnegation and unselfish
toil. The women felt the force and truth of Jerome's criticism of their trifling follies when
he said: "Do not seek to appear over-eloquent, nor trifle with verse, nor make yourself gay
with lyric songs. And do not, out of affectation, follow the sickly taste of married ladies,
who now pressing their teeth together, now keeping their lips wide apart, speak with a lisp,
and purposely clip their words, because they fancy that to pronounce them naturally is a mark
of country breeding."

Professor Dill is inclined to discount the testimony of Jerome respecting the morals of Roman
society. He thinks Jerome exaggerated the perils surrounding women. He says: "The truth is
Jerome is not only a monk but an artist in words; and his horror of evil, his vivid imagination,
and his passion for literary effect, occasionally carry him beyond the region of sober fact.
There was much to amend in the morals of the Roman world. But we must not take the leader of
a great moral reformation as a cool and dispassionate observer." But this observation amounts
to nothing more than a cautionary word against mistaking evils common to all times for special
symptoms of excessive immorality. Professor Dill practically concedes the truthfulness of contemporary
witnesses, including Jerome, when he says: "Yet, after all allowances, the picture is not a
pleasant one. We feel that we are far away from the simple, unworldly devotion of the freedmen
and obscure toilers whose existence was hardly known to the great world before the age of the
Antonines, and who lived in the spirit of the Sermon on the Mount and in constant expectation
of the coming of their Lord. The triumphant Church, which has brought Paganism to its knees,
is very different from the Church of the catacombs and the persecutions." The picture which
Jerome draws of the Roman women is indeed repulsive, and Professor Dill would gladly believe
it to be exaggerated, but, nevertheless, he thinks that "if the priesthood, with its enormous
influence, was so corrupt, it is only probable that it debased the sex which is always most
under clerical influence."

But far graver charges cling to the memories of the Roman women. Crime darkened every household.
The Roman lady was cruel and impure. She delighted in the blood of gladiators and in illicit
love. Roman law at this time permitted women to hold and to control large estates, and it became
a fad for these patrician ladies to marry poor men, so that they might have their husbands
within their power. All sorts of alliances could then be formed, and if their husbands remonstrated,
they, holding the purse strings, were able to say: "If you don't like it you can leave." A
profligate himself, the husband usually kept his counsel, and as a reward, dwelt in a palace.
"When the Roman matrons became the equal and voluntary companions of their lords," says Gibbon,
"a new jurisprudence was introduced, that marriage, like other partnerships, might be dissolved
by the abdication of one of the associates." I have but touched the fringe of a veil I will
not lift; but it is easy to understand why those women who cherished noble sentiments welcomed
the monastic life as a pathway of escape from scenes and customs from which their better natures
recoiled in horror.

Secondly, the fine quality of mercy that distinguishes woman's character deserves recognition.
Even though she retired to a convent, she could not become so forgetful of her fellow creatures
as her male companions. From the very beginning we observe that she was more unselfish in her
asceticism than they. It is true the monk forsook all, and to that extent was self-sacrificing,
but in his desire for his own salvation, he was prone to neglect every one else. The monk's
ministrations were too often confined to those who came to him, but the nun went forth to heal
the diseased and to bind up the broken-hearted. As soon as she embraced the monastic life we
read of hospitals. The desire for salvation drove man into the desert; a Christ-like mercy
and divine sympathy kept his sister by the couch of pain.

Lastly, a word remains to be said touching the question of marriage. At first, the nun sometimes
entered the marriage state, and, of course, left the convent; but, beginning with Basil, this
practice was condemned, and irrevocable vows were exacted. In 407, Innocent I. closed even
the door of penitence and forgiveness to those who broke their vows and married.

Widows and virgins alike assumed the veil. Marriage itself was not despised, because the monastic
life was only for those who sought a higher type of piety than, it was supposed, could be attained
amid the ordinary conditions of life. But marriage, as well as other so-called secular relations,
was eschewed by those who wished to make their salvation sure. Jerome says: "I praise wedlock,
I praise marriage, but it is because they give me virgins; I gather the rose from the thorns,
the gold from the earth, the pearl from the shell." He therefore tolerated marriage among people
contented with ordinary religious attainments, but he thought it incompatible with true holiness.
Augustine admitted that the mother and her daughter may be both in heaven, but one a bright
and the other a dim star. Some writers, as Helvidius, opposed this view and maintained that
there was no special virtue in an unmarried life; that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was also
the mother of other children, and as such was an example of Christian virtue. Jerome brought
out his guns and poured hot shot into the enemies' camp. In the course of his answer, which
contained many intolerant and acrimonious statements, he drew a comparison between the married
and the unmarried state. It is interesting because it reflects the opinions of those who disparaged
marriage, and reveals the character of the principles which the early Fathers advocated. It
is very evident from this letter against Helvidius that Jerome regarded all secular duties
as interfering with the pursuit of the highest virtue.

"Do you think," he says, "there is no difference between one who spends her time in prayer
and fasting, and one who must, at her husband's approach, make up her countenance, walk with
a mincing gait, and feign a show of endearment? The virgin aims to appear less comely; she
will wrong herself so as to hide her natural attractions. The married woman has the paint laid
on before her mirror, and, to the insult of her Maker, strives to acquire something more than
her natural beauty. Then come the prattling of infants, the noisy household, children watching
for her word and waiting for her kiss, the reckoning up of expenses, the preparation to meet
the outlay. On one side you will see a company of cooks, girded for the onslaught and attacking
the meat; there you may hear the hum of a multitude of weavers. Meanwhile a message is delivered
that her husband and his friends have arrived. The wife, like a swallow, flies all over the
house. She has to see to everything. Is the sofa smooth? Is the pavement swept? Are the flowers
in the cup? Is dinner ready? Tell me, pray, amid all this, is there room for the thought of God?"

Such was Roman married life as it appeared to Jerome. The very duties and blessings that we
consider the glory of the family he despised. I will return to his views later, but it is interesting
to note the absence at this period, of the modern and true idea that God may be served in the
performance of household and other secular duties. Women fled from such occupations in those
days that they might be religious. The disagreeable fact of Peter's marriage was overcome by
the assertion that he must have washed away the stain of his married life by the blood of his
martyrdom. Such extreme views arose partly as a reaction from and a protest against the dominant
corruption, a state of affairs in which happy and holy marriages were rare.

The Spread of Monasticism in Europe

Much more might be said of monastic life in Rome, were it not now necessary to treat of the
spread of monasticism in Europe. There are many noble characters whom we ought to know, such
as Ambrose, one of Christendom's greatest bishops, who led a life of poverty and strict abstinence,
like his sister Marcella, whom we have met. He it was, of whom the Emperor Theodosius said:
"I have met a man who has told me the truth." Well might he so declare, for Ambrose refused
him admission to the church at Milan, because his hands were red with the blood of the murdered,
and succeeded in persuading him to submit to discipline.

The story of John, surnamed Chrysostom, who was born at Antioch, in 347, is exceedingly interesting.
He was a young lawyer, who entered the priesthood after his baptism. He at once set his heart
on the monastic life, but his mother took him to her chamber, and, by the bed where she had
given him birth, besought him in fear, not to forsake her. "My son," she said in substance,
"my only comfort in the midst of the miseries of this earthly life is to see thee constantly,
and to behold in thy traits the faithful image of my beloved husband, who is no more. When
you have buried me and joined my ashes with those of your father, nothing will then prevent
you from retiring into the monastic life. But so long as I breathe, support me by your presence,
and do not draw down upon you the wrath of God by bringing such evils upon me who have given
you no offence." This singularly tender petition was granted, but Chrysostom turned his home
into a monastery, slept on the bare floor, ate little and seldom, and prayed much by day and
by night.

After his mother's death Chrysostom enjoyed the seclusion of a monastic solitude for six years,
but impairing his health by excessive self-mortification he returned to Antioch in 380. He
rapidly rose to a position of commanding influence in the church. His peerless oratorical and
literary gifts were employed in elevating the ascetic ideal and in unsparing denunciations
of the worldly religion of the imperial court. He incurred the furious hatred of the young
and beautiful Empress Eudoxia, who united her influence with that of the ambitious Theophilus,
patriarch of Alexandria, and Chrysostom was banished from Constantinople, but died on his way
to the remote desert of Pityus. His powerful sermons and valuable writings contributed in no
small degree to the spread of monasticism among the Christians of his time.

Then there was Augustine, the greatest thinker since Plato. "We shall meet him," says Schaff,
"alike on the broad highways and the narrow foot-paths, on the giddy Alpine heights and in
the awful depths of speculation, wherever philosophical thinkers before him or after him have
trod." He, too, like all the other leaders of thought in his time, was ascetic in his habits.
Although he lived and labored for thirty-eight years at Hippo, a Numidian city about two hundred
miles west of Carthage, in Africa, Augustine was regarded as the intellectual head not only
of North Africa but of Western Christianity. He gathered his clergy into a college of priests,
with a community of goods, thus approaching as closely to the regular monastic life as was
possible to secular clergymen. He established religious houses and wrote a set of rules, consisting
of twenty-four articles, for the government of monasteries. These rules were superseded by
those of Benedict, but they were resuscitated under Charlemagne and reappeared in the famous
Austin Canons of the eleventh century. Little did Augustine think that a thousand years later
an Augustinian monk--Luther--would abandon his order to become the founder of modern Protestantism.

Augustine published a celebrated essay,--"On the Labor of Monks,"--in which he pointed out
the dangers of monachism, condemned its abuses, and ended by sighing for the quiet life of
the monk who divided his day between labor, reading and prayer, whilst he himself spent his
years amid the noisy throng and the perplexities of his episcopate.

These men, and many others, did much to further monasticism. But we must now leave sunny Africa
and journey northward through Gaul into the land of the hardy Britons and Scots.

Athanasius, the same weary exile whom we have encountered in Egypt and in Rome, had been banished
by Constantine to Treves, in 336. In 346 and 349 he again visited Gaul. He told the same story
of Anthony and the Egyptian hermits with similar results.

The most renowned ecclesiastic of the Gallican church, whose name is most intimately associated
with the spread of monasticism in Western Europe, before the days of Benedict, was Saint Martin
of Tours. He lived about the years 316-396 A.D. The chronicle of his life is by no means trustworthy,
but that is essential neither to popularity nor saintship. Only let a Severus describe his
life and miracles in glowing rhetoric and fantastic legend and the people will believe it,
pronouncing him greatest among the great, the mightiest miracle-worker of that miracle-working age.

Martin was a soldier three years, against his will, under Constantine. One bleak winter day
he cut his white military coat in two with his sword and clothed a beggar with half of it.
That night he heard Jesus address the angels: "Martin, as yet only a catechumen has clothed
me with his garment." After leaving the army he became a hermit, and, subsequently, bishop
of Tours. He lived for years just outside of Tours in a cell made of interlaced branches. His
monks dwelt around him in caves cut out of scarped rocks, overlooking a beautiful stream. They
were clad in camel's hair and lived on a diet of brown bread, sleeping on a straw couch.

But Martin's monks did not take altogether kindly to their mode of life. Severus records an
amusing story of their rebellion against the meager allowance of food. The Egyptian could exist
on a few figs a day. But these rude Gauls, just emerging out of barbarism, were accustomed
to devour great slices of roasted meat and to drink deep draughts of beer. Such sturdy children
of the northern forests naturally disdained dainty morsels of barley bread and small potations
of wine. True, Athanasius had said, "Fasting is the food of angels," but these ascetic novices,
in their perplexity, could only say: "We are accused of gluttony; but we are Gauls; it is ridiculous
and cruel to make us live like angels; we are not angels; once more, we are only Gauls." Their
complaint comes down to us as a pathetic but humorous protest of common sense against ascetic
fanaticism; or, regarded in another light, it may be considered as additional evidence of the
depravity of the natural man.

In spite of all complaints, however, Martin did not abate the severity of his discipline. As
a bishop he pushed his monastic system into all the surrounding country. His zeal knew no bounds,
and his strength seemed inexhaustible. "No one ever saw him either gloomy or merry," remarks
his biographer. Amid many embarrassments and difficulties he was ever the same, with a countenance
full of heavenly serenity. He was a great miracle-worker--that is, if everything recorded of
him is true. He cast out demons, and healed the sick; he had strange visions of angels and
demons, and, wonderful to relate, thrice he raised bodies from the dead.

But all conquerors are at last vanquished by the angel of death, and Martin passed into the
company of the heavenly host and the category of saints. Two thousand monks attended his funeral.
His fame spread all over Europe. Tradition tells us he was the uncle of Saint Patrick of Ireland.
Churches were dedicated to him in France, Germany, Scotland and England. The festival of his
birth is celebrated on the eleventh of November. In Scotland this day still marks the winter
term, which is called Martinmas. Saint Martin's shrine was one of the most famous of the middle
ages, and was noted for its wonderful cures. No saint is held, even now, in higher veneration
by the French Catholic.

It is not known when the institution was planted in Spain, but in 380 the council of Saragossa
forbade priests to assume monkish habits. Germany received the institution some time in the
fifth century. The introduction of Christianity as well as of monasticism into the British
Isles is shrouded in darkness. A few jewels of fact may be gathered from the legendary rubbish.
It is probable that before the days of Benedict, Saint Patrick, independently of Rome, established
monasteries in Ireland and preached the gospel there; and, without doubt, before the birth
of Benedict of Nursia, there were monks and monasteries in Great Britain. The monastery of
Bangor is said to have been founded about 450 A.D.

It is probable that Christianity was introduced into Britain before the close of the second
century, and that monasticism arose some time in the fifth century. Tertullian, about the beginning
of the third century, boasts that Christianity had conquered places in Britain where the Roman
arms could not penetrate. Origen claimed that the power of the Savior was manifest in Britain
as well as in Muritania. The earliest notice we have of a British church occurs in the writings
of the Venerable Bede (673-735 A.D.), a monk whose numerous and valuable works on English history
entitle him to the praise of being "the greatest literary benefactor this or any other nation
has produced." He informs us that a British king--Lucius--embraced Christianity during the
reign of the Emperor Aurelius, and that missionaries were sent from Rome to Britain about that
time. Lingard says the story is suspicious, since "we know not from what source Bede, at the
distance of five centuries, derived his information." It seems quite likely that there must
have been some Christians among the Roman soldiers or civil officials who lived in Britain
during the Roman occupation of the country. The whole problem has been the theme of so much
controversy, however, that a fuller discussion is reserved for the next chapter.

Disorders and Oppositions

But was there no protest against the progress of these ascetic teachings? Did the monastic
institution command the unanimous approval of the church from the outset? There were many and
strong outcries against the monks, but they were quickly silenced by the counter-shouts of
praise. Even when rebellion against the system seemed formidable, it was popular nevertheless.
The lifted hand was quickly struck down, and voices of opposition suddenly hushed. Like a mighty
flood the movement swept on,--kings, when so inclined, being powerless to stop it. As Paula
was carried fainting from the funeral procession of Blæsilla, her daughter, whispers such as
these were audible in the crowd: "Is not this what we have often said? She weeps for her daughter,
killed with fasting. How long must we refrain from driving these detestable monks out of Rome?
Why do we not stone them or hurl them into the Tiber? They have misled this unhappy mother;
that she is not a nun from choice is clear. No heathen mother ever wept for her children as
she does for Blæsilla." And this is Paula, who, choked with grief, refused to weep when she
sailed from her children for the far East!

Unhappily, history is often too dignified to retail the conversations of the dinner-table and
the gossip of private life. But this narrative indicates that in many a Roman family the monk
was feared, despised and hated. Sometimes everyday murmurs found their way into literature
and so passed to posterity. Rutilius, the Pagan poet, as he sails before a hermit isle in the
Mediterranean, exclaims: "Behold, Capraria rises before us; that isle is full of wretches,
enemies of light. I detest these rocks scene of a recent shipwreck." He then goes on to declare
that a young and rich friend, impelled by the furies, had fled from men and gods to a living
tomb, and was now decaying in that foul retreat. This was no uncommon opinion. But contrast
it with what Ambrose said of those same isles: "It is there in these isles, thrown down by
God like a collar of pearls upon the sea, that those who would escape from the charms of dissipation
find refuge. Nothing here disturbs their peace, all access is closed to the wild passions of
the world. The mysterious sound of waves mingles with the chant of hymns; and, while the waters
break upon the shores of these happy isles with a gentle murmur, the peaceful accents of the
choir of the elect ascend toward Heaven from their bosom." No wonder the Milanese ladies guarded
their daughters against this theological poet.

Even among the Christians there were hostile as well as friendly critics of monasticism; Jovinian,
whom Neander compares to Luther, is a type of the former. Although a monk himself, he disputed
the thesis that any merit lay in celibacy, fasting or poverty. He opposed the worship of saints
and relics, and believed that one might retain possession of his property and make good use
of it. He assailed the dissolute monks and claimed that many of Rome's noblest young men and
women were withdrawn from a life of usefulness into the desert. He held that there was really
but one class of Christians, namely, those who had faith in Christ, and that a monk could be
no more. But Jovinian was far in advance of his age, and it was many years before the truth
of his view gained any considerable recognition. He was severely attacked by Jerome, who called
him a Christian Epicurean, and was condemned as a heretic by a synod at Milan, in 390. Thus
the reformers were crushed for centuries. The Pagan Emperor, Julian, and the Christian, Valens,
alike tried in vain to resist the emigration into the desert. Thousands fled, in times of peril
to the state, from their civil and military duties, but the emperors were powerless to prevent
the exodus.

That there were grounds for complaint against the monks we may know from the charges made even
by those who favored the system. Jerome Ambrose, Augustine, and in fact almost every one of
the Fathers tried to correct the growing disorders. We learn from them that many fled from
society, not to become holy, but to escape slavery and famine; and that many were lazy and
immoral. Their "shaven heads lied to God." Avarice, ambition, or cowardice ruled hearts that
should have been actuated by a love of poverty, self-sacrifice or courage. "Quite recently,"
says Jerome, "we have seen to our sorrow a fortune worthy of Croesus brought to light by a
monk's death, and a city's alms collected for the poor, left by will to his sons and successors."

Many monks traveled from place to place selling sham relics. Augustine wrote against "those
hypocrites who, in the dress of monks, wander about the provinces carrying pretended relics,
amulets, preservatives, and expecting alms to feed their lucrative poverty and recompense their
pretended virtue." It is to the credit of the Fathers of the church that they boldly and earnestly
rebuked the vices of the monks and tried to purge the monastic system of its impurities.

But the church sanctioned the monastic movement. She could not have done anything else. "It
is one of the most striking occurrences in history," says Harnack, "that the church, exactly
at the time when she was developing more and more into a legal institution and a sacramental
establishment, outlined a Christian life-ideal which was incapable of realization within her
bounds, but only alongside of her. The more she affiliated herself with the world, the higher
and more superhuman did she make her ideal."

It is also noteworthy that this "life-ideal" seems to have led, inevitably, to fanaticism and
other excesses, so that even at this early date there was much occasion for alarm. Gross immorality
was disclosed as well as luminous purity; indolence and laziness as well as the love of sacrifice
and toil. So we shall find it down through the centuries. "The East had few great men," says
Milman, "many madmen; the West, madmen enough, but still very many, many great men." We have
met some madmen and some great men. We shall meet more of each type.

After 450 A.D., monasticism suffered an eclipse for over half a century. It seemed as if the
Western institution was destined to end in that imbecility and failure which overtook the Eastern
system. But there came a man who infused new life into the monastic body. He systematized its
scattered principles and concentrated the energies of the wandering and unorganized monks.

Our next visit will be to the mountain home of this renowned character, fifty miles to the
west of Rome. "A single monk," says Montalembert, "is about to form there a center of spiritual
virtue, and to light it up with a splendor destined to shine over regenerated Europe for ten
centuries to come."

III

THE BENEDICTINES

Saint Benedict, the founder of the famous monastic order that bears his name, was born at Nursia,
about 480 A.D. His parents, who were wealthy, intended to give him a liberal education; but
their plans were defeated, for at fifteen years of age Benedict renounced his family and fortune,
and fled from his school life in Rome. The vice of the city shocked and disgusted him. He would
rather be ignorant and holy, than educated and wicked. On his way into the mountains, he met
a monk named Romanus,--the spot is marked by the chapel of Santa Crocella,--who gave him a
haircloth shirt and a monastic dress of skins. Continuing his journey with Romanus, the youthful
ascetic discovered a sunless cave in the desert of Subiaco, about forty miles from Rome. Into
this cell he climbed, and in it he lived three years. It was so inaccessible that Romanus had
to lower his food to him by a rope, to which was attached a bell to call him from his devotions.
Once the Devil threw a stone at the rope and broke it.

But Benedict's bodily escape from the wickedness of Rome did not secure his spiritual freedom.
"There was a certain lady of thin, airy shape, who was very active in this solemnity; her name
was Fancy." Time and again, he revisited his old haunts, borne on the wings of his imagination.
The face of a beautiful young girl of previous acquaintance constantly appeared before him.
He was about to yield to the temptation and to return, when, summoning all his strength, he
made one mighty effort to dispel the illusion forever. Divesting himself of his clothes, he
rolled his naked body among the thorn-bushes near his cave. It was drastic treatment, but it
seems to have rid his mind effectually of disturbing fancies. This singular self-punishment
was used by Godric, the Welsh saint, in the twelfth century. "Failing to subdue his rebellious
flesh by this method, he buried a cask in the earthen floor of his cell, filled it with water
and fitted it with a cover, and in this receptacle he shut himself up whenever he felt the
titillations of desire. In this manner, varied by occasionally passing the night up to his
chin in a river, of which he had broken the ice, he finally succeeded in mastering his fiery
nature."

One day some peasants discovered Benedict at the entrance of his cave. Deceived by his savage
appearance, they mistook him for a wild beast, but the supposed wolf proving to be a saint,
they fell down and reverenced him.

The fame of the young ascetic attracted throngs of hermits, who took up their abodes near his
cell. After a time monasteries were established, and Benedict was persuaded to become an abbot
in one of them. His strictness provoked much opposition among the monks, resulting in carefully-laid
plots to compass the moral ruin of their spiritual guide. An attempt to poison him was defeated
by a miraculous interposition, and Benedict escaped to a solitary retreat.

Again the moral hero became an abbot, and again the severity of his discipline was resented.
This time a wicked and jealous priest sought to entrap the saint by turning into a garden in
which he was accustomed to walk seven young girls of exquisite physical charms. When Benedict
encountered this temptation, he fled from the scene and retired to a picturesque mountain--the
renowned Monte Cassino. Let Montalembert describe this celebrated spot among the western Apennines:
"At the foot of this rock Benedict found an amphitheatre of the time of the Cæsars, amidst
the ruins of the town of Casinum, which the most learned and pious of Romans, Varro, that pagan
Benedictine, whose memory and knowledge the sons of Benedict took pleasure in honoring, had
rendered illustrious. From the summit the prospect extended on one side towards Arpinum, where
the prince of Roman orators was born, and on the other towards Aquinum, already celebrated
as the birthplace of Juvenal.... It was amidst those noble recollections, this solemn nature,
and upon that predestinated height, that the patriarch of the monks of the West founded the
capital of the monastic order."

In the year 529 a great stronghold of Paganism in these wild regions gave way to Benedict's
faith. Upon the ruins of a temple to Apollo, and in a grove sacred to Venus, arose the model
of Western monasticism,--the cloister of Monte Cassino, which was to shine resplendent for
a thousand years. The limitations of my purpose will prevent me from following in detail the
fortunes of this renowned retreat, but it may not be out of place to glance at its subsequent
history.

Monte Cassino is located three and a half miles to the northeast of the town of Cassino, midway
between Rome and Naples. About 589 A.D. the Lombards destroyed the buildings, but the monks
escaped to Rome, in fulfilment, so it is claimed, of a prophecy uttered by Benedict. It lay
in ruins until restored by Gregory II. in 719, only to be burned in 884 by the Saracens; seventy
years later it was again rebuilt. It afterwards passed through a variety of calamities, and
was consecrated, for the third time, by Benedict XII., in 1729. Longfellow quotes a writer
for the London Daily News as saying: "There is scarcely a pope or emperor of importance who
has not been personally connected with its history. From its mountain crag it has seen Goths,
Lombards, Saracens, Normans, Frenchmen, Spaniards, Germans, scour and devastate the land which,
through all modern history, has attracted every invader."

It was enriched by popes, emperors and princes. In its palmy days the abbot was the first baron
in the realm, and commanded over four hundred towns and villages. In 1866, it shared the fate
of all the monasteries of Italy. It still stands upon the summit of the mountain, and can be
seen by the traveler from the railway in the valley. At present it serves as a Catholic seminary
with about two hundred students. It contains a spacious church, richly ornamented with marble,
mosaics and paintings. It has also a famous library which, in spite of bad usage, is still
immensely valuable. Boccaccio made a visit to the place, and when he saw the precious books
so vilely mutilated, he departed in tears, exclaiming: "Now, therefore, O scholar, rack thy
brains in the making of books!" The library contains about twenty thousand volumes, and about
thirty-five thousand popes' bulls, diplomas and charters. There are also about a thousand manuscripts,
some of which are of priceless value, as they date from the sixth century downward, and consist
of ancient Bibles and important medieval literature.

Benedict survived the founding of this monastery fourteen years. His time was occupied in establishing
other cloisters, perfecting his rule, and preaching. Many stories are related of his power
over the hearts of the untamed barbarians. Galea the Goth, out on a marauding expedition, demanded
a peasant to give him his treasures. The peasant, thinking to escape, said he had committed
them to the keeping of Benedict. Galea immediately ordered him to be bound on a horse and conducted
to the saint. Benedict was seated at the gateway reading when Galea and his prisoner arrived.
Looking up from his book he fastened his eyes upon the poor peasant, who was immediately loosed
from his bonds. The astonished Galea, awed by this miracle, fell at the feet of the abbot,
and, instead of demanding gold, supplicated his blessing. Once a boy was drowning, and, at
the command of Benedict, St. Maur, a wealthy young Roman, who had turned monk, walked safely
out upon the water and rescued the lad. Gregory also tells us many stories of miraculous healing,
and of one resurrection from the dead.

Benedict's last days were linked with a touching incident. His sister, Scholastica, presided
over a convent near his own. They met once a year. On his last visit to her, Scholastica begged
him to remain and "speak of the joys of Heaven till the morning." But Benedict would not listen;
he must return. His sister then buried her face in her hands weeping and praying. Suddenly
the sky was overcast with clouds, and a terrific storm burst upon the mountains, which prevented
her brother's return. Three days later Benedict saw the soul of his sister entering heaven.
On March 21, 543, a short time after his sister's death, two monks beheld a shining pathway
of stars over which the soul of Benedict passed from Monte Cassino to heaven. Such, in brief,
is the story preserved for us in his biography by the celebrated patron of monasticism, Pope
Gregory I.

The Rules of Benedict

The rules, regulae, of St. Benedict, are worthy of special consideration, since they constitute
the real foundation of his success and of his fame. His order was by far the most important
monastic brotherhood until the thirteenth century. Nearly all the other orders which sprang
up during this interval were based upon Benedictine rules, and were really attempts to reform
the monastic system on the basis of Benedict's original practice. Other monks lived austere
lives and worked miracles, and some of them formulated rules, but it is to Benedict and his
rules that we must look for the code of Western monachism. "By a strange parallelism," says
Putnam, "almost in the very year in which the great Emperor Justinian was codifying the results
of seven centuries of Roman secular legislation for the benefit of the judges and the statesmen
of the new Europe, Benedict, on his lonely mountain-top, was composing his code for the regulation
of the daily life of the great civilizers of Europe for seven centuries to come."

The rules consist of a preface and seventy-three chapters. The prologue defines the classes
of monks, and explains the aim of the "school of divine servitude," as Benedict described his
monastery. The following is a partial list of the subjects considered: The character of an
abbot, silence, maxims for good works, humility, directions as to divine service, rules for
dormitories, penalties, duties of various monastic officers, poverty, care of the sick daily
rations of food and drink, hours for meals, fasting, entertainment of guests, and dress. They
close with the statement that the Benedictine rule is not offered as an ideal of perfection,
or even as equal to the teaching of Cassian or Basil, but for mere beginners in the spiritual
life, who may thence proceed further.

The Benedictine novitiate extended over one year, but was subsequently increased to three.
At the close of this period the novice was given the opportunity to go back into the world.
If he still persisted in his choice, he swore before the bones of the saints to remain forever
cut off from the rest of his fellow beings. If a monk left the monastery, or was expelled,
he could return twice, but if, after the third admission, he severed his connection, the door
was shut forever.

The monk passed his time in manual labor, copying manuscripts, reading, fasting and prayer.
He was forbidden to receive letters, tokens or gifts, even from his nearest-relatives, without
permission from the abbot. His daily food allowance was usually a pound of bread, a pint of
wine, cider or ale, and sometimes fish, eggs, fruit or cheese. He was dressed in a black cowl.
His clothing was to be suitable to the climate and to consist of two sets. He was also furnished
with a straw mattress, blanket, quilt, pillow, knife, pen, needle, handkerchief and tablets.
He was, in all things, to submit patiently to his superior, to keep silence, and to serve his
turn in the kitchen. In the older days the monks changed their clothes on the occasion of a
bath, which used to be taken four times a year. Later, bathing was allowed only twice a year,
and the monks changed their clothes when they wished.

Various punishments were employed to correct faults. Sometimes the offender was whipped on
the bare shoulders with a thick rod; others had to lie prostrate in the doorway of the church
at each hour, so that the monks passed over his body on entering or going out.

The monks formerly rose at two o'clock, and spent the day in various occupations until eight
at night, when they retired. The following rules once governed St. Gregory's Monastery in England:
"3:45 A.M. Rise. 4 A.M. Matins and lauds, recited; half-hour mental prayer; prime sung; prime
B.V.M. recited. 6:30 A.M. Private study; masses; breakfast for those who had permission. 8
A.M. Lectures and disputations. 10 A.M. Little hours B.V.M., recited; tierce, mass, sext, sung.
11:30 A.M. Dinner. 12 noon. None sung; vespers and compline B.V.M., recited. 12:30 P.M. Siesta,
1 P.M. Hebrew or Greek lecture. 2 P.M. Vespers sung. 2:30 P.M. Lectures and disputations. 4
P.M. Private study. 6 P.M. Supper. 6:30 P.M. Recreation. 7:30 P.M. Public spiritual reading;
compline sung; matins and lauds B.V.M., recited; half-hour mental prayer. 8:45 P.M. Retire[D]."

[Footnote D: Appendix, Note D.]

Such a routine suggests a dreary life, but that would depend upon the monk's temperament. Regularity
of employment kept him healthy, and if he did not take his sins too much to heart, he was free
from gloom. Hill very justly observes: "Whenever men obey that injunction of labor, no matter
what their station, there is in the act the element of happiness, and whoever avoids that injunction,
there is always the shadow of the unfulfilled curse darkening their path." Thus, their ideal
was "to subdue one's self and then to devote one's self," which De Tocqueville pronounces "the
secret of strength." How well they succeeded in realizing their ideal by the methods employed
we shall see later.

The term "order," as applied to the Benedictines, is used in a different sense from that which
it has when used of later monastic bodies. Each Benedictine house was practically independent
of every other, while the houses of the Dominicans, Franciscans or Jesuits were bound together
under one head. The family idea was peculiar to the Benedictines. The abbot was the father,
and the monastery was the home where the Benedictine was content to dwell all his life. In
the later monastic societies the monks were constantly traveling from place to place. Taunton
says: "As God made society to rest on the basis of the family, so St. Benedict saw that the
spiritual family is the surest basis for the sanctification of the souls of his monks. The
monastery therefore is to him what the 'home' is to lay-folk.... From this family idea comes
another result: the very fact that St. Benedict did not found an Order but only gave a Rule,
cuts away all possibility of that narrowing esprit de corps which comes so easily to a widespread
and highly-organized body."

In the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, however, it became necessary for the general good
of each family to secure some kind of union. The Chapter then came into existence, which was
a representative body, composed of the heads of the different houses and ordinary monks regularly
appointed as delegates. To the Chapter were committed various matters of jurisdiction, and
also the power of sending visitors to the different abbeys in the pope's name.

Each society was ruled by an abbot, who governed in Christ's stead. Sometimes the members of
the monastery were consulted, the older ones ordinarily, the whole congregation; in important
matters. But implicit obedience to the abbot, as the representative of God, was demanded by
the vows.

The abbot was to be elected by the monks. At various periods popes and princes usurped this
power, but the monks always claimed the right as an original privilege.

In Walter Scott's novel, "The Abbot," there is an interesting contrast drawn between the ceremonies
attending an abbot's installation, when the monasteries were in their glory, and the pitiable
scenes in the days of their decline, when Mary Stuart was a prisoner in Lochleven. In the monastery
of Kennaquhair, which had been despoiled by the fury of the times, a few monks were left to
mourn the mutilated statues and weep over the fragments of richly-carved Gothic pillars. Having
secretly elected an abbot, they assembled in fear and trembling to invest him with the honors
of his office. "In former times," says Scott, "this was one of the most splendid of the many
pageants which the hierarchy of Rome had devised to attract the veneration of the faithful.
When the folding doors on such solemn occasions were thrown open, and the new abbot appeared
on the threshold in full-blown dignity, with ring and mitre and dalmatique and crosier, his
hoary standard-bearers and juvenile dispensers of incense preceding him, and the venerable
train of monks behind him, his appearance was the signal for the magnificent jubilate to rise
from the organ and the music-loft and to be joined by the corresponding bursts of 'Alleluiah'
from the whole assembled congregation.

"Now all was changed. Father Ambrose stood on the broken steps of the high altar, barefooted,
as was the rule, and holding in his hand his pastoral staff, for the gemmed ring and jewelled
mitre had become secular spoils. No obedient vassals came, man after man, to make their homage
and to offer the tribute which should provide their spiritual superior with palfrey and trappings.
No bishop assisted at the solemnity to receive into the higher ranks of the church nobility
a dignitary whose voice in the legislature was as potent as his own."

We are enabled by this partially-quoted description to imagine the importance attached to the
election of an abbot. He became, in feudal times, a lord of the land, the richest man in the
community, and a tremendous power in political councils and parliaments. A Benedictine abbot
once confessed: "My vow of poverty has given me a hundred thousand crowns a year; my vow of
obedience has raised me to the rank of a sovereign prince."

No new principle seems to be disclosed by the Benedictine rules. The command to labor had been
emphasized even in the monasteries of Egypt. The Basilian code contained a provision enforcing
manual labor, but the work was light and insufficient to keep the mind from brooding. The monastery
that was to succeed in the West must provide for men who not only could toil hard, but who
must do so if they were to be kept pure and true; it must welcome men accustomed to the dangerous
adventures of pioneer life in the vast forests of the North. The Benedictine system met these
conditions by a unique combination and application of well-known monastic principles; by a
judicious subordination of minor matters to essential discipline; by bringing into greater
prominence the doctrine of labor; by tempering the austerities of the cell to meet the necessities
of a severe climate; and lastly, by devising a scheme of life equally adaptable to the monk
of sunny Italy and the rude Goth of the northern forests.

It was the splendid fruition of many years of experiment amid varying results. "It shows,"
says Schaff, "a true knowledge of human nature, the practical wisdom of Rome and adaptation
to Western customs; it combines simplicity with completeness, strictness with gentleness, humility
with courage and gives the whole cloister life a fixed unity and compact organization, which,
like the episcopate, possessed an unlimited versatility and power of expansion."

The Struggle against Barbarism

No institution has contributed as much to the amelioration of human misery or struggled as
patiently and persistently to influence society for good as the Christian church. In spite
of all that may be said against the followers of the Cross, it still remains true, that they
have ever been foremost in the establishment of peace and justice among men.

The problem that confronted the church when Benedict began his labors, was no less than that
of reducing a demoralized and brutal society to law and order. Chaos reigned, selfishness and
lust ruled the hearts of Rome's conquerors. The West was desolated by barbarians; the East
dismembered and worn out by theological controversy. War had ruined the commerce of the cities
and laid waste the rural districts. Vast swamps and tracts of brush covered fields once beautiful
with the products of agricultural labor. The minds of men were distracted by apprehensions
of some frightful, impending calamity. The cultured Roman, the untutored Goth and the corrupted
Christian were locked in the deadly embrace of despair. "Constantly did society attempt to
form itself," says Guizot, "constantly was it destroyed by the act of man, by the absence of
the moral conditions under which alone it can exist."

But notwithstanding failures and discouragements, the work of reconstructing society moved
painfully on, and among the brave master builders was Benedict of Nursia. "He found the world,
physical and social, in ruins," says Cardinal Newman, "and his mission was to restore it in
the way,--not of science, but of nature; not as if setting about to do it; not professing to
do it by any set time, or by any series of strokes; but so quietly, patiently, gradually, that
often till the work was done, it was not known to be doing. It was a restoration rather than
a visitation, correction or conversion. The new world he helped to create was a growth rather
than a structure."

But the chaos created by the irruption of the barbarous nations at this period seriously affected
the moral character and influence of the clergy and the monks. The church seemed unequal to
the stupendous undertaking of converting the barbarians. The monks, as a class, were lawless
and vicious. Benedict himself testifies against them, and declares that they were "always wandering
and never stable; that they obey their own appetites, whereunto they are enslaved." Unable
to control their own desires by any law whatsoever, they were unfitted to the task before them.
It was imperative, then, that unity and order should be introduced among the monasteries; that
some sort of a uniform rule, adapted to the existing conditions, should be adopted, not only
for the preservation of the monastic institution, but for the preparation of the monks for
their work. Therefore, although the Christianity of that time was far from ideal, it was, nevertheless,
a religion within the grasp of the reckless barbarians; and subsequent events prove that it
possessed a moral power capable of humanizing manners, elevating the intellect, and checking
the violent temper of the age.

Excepting always the religious services of the Benedictine monks, their greatest contribution
to civilization was literary and educational[E]. The rules of Benedict provided for two hours
a day of reading, and it was doubtless this wise regulation that stimulated literary tastes,
and resulted in the collecting of books and the reproduction of manuscripts. "Wherever a Benedictine
house arose, or a monastery of any one of the Orders, which were but offshoots from the Benedictine
tree, books were multiplied and a library came into existence, small indeed at first, but increasing
year by year, till the wealthier houses had gathered together collections of books that would
do credit to a modern university." There was great danger that the remains of classic literature
might be destroyed in the general devastation of Italy. The monasteries rescued the literary
fragments that escaped, and preserved them. "For a period of more than six centuries the safety
of the literary heritage of Europe,--one may say of the world,--depended upon the scribes of
a few dozen scattered monasteries."

[Footnote E: Appendix, Note E.]

The literary services of the earlier monks did not consist in original production, but in the
reproduction and preservation of the classics. This work was first begun as a part of the prescribed
routine of European monastic life in the monastery at Vivaria, or Viviers, France, which was
founded by Cassiodorus about 539. The rules of this cloister were based on those of Cassian,
who died in the early part of the fifth century. Benedict, at Monte Cassino, followed the example
of Cassiodorus, and the Benedictine Order carried the work on for the seven succeeding centuries.

Cassiodorus was a statesman of no mean ability, and for over forty years was active in the
political circles of his time, holding high official positions under five different Roman rulers.
He was also an exceptional scholar, devoting much of his energy to the preservation of classic
literature. His magnificent collection of manuscripts, rescued from the ruins of Italian libraries,
"supplied material for the pens of thousands of monastic scribes." If we leave out Jerome,
it is to Cassiodorus that the honor is due for joining learning and monasticism.

"Thus," remarks Schaff, "that very mode of life, which, in its founder, Anthony, despised all
learning, became in the course of its development an asylum of culture in the rough and stormy
times of the migration and the crusades, and a conservator of the literary treasures of antiquity
for the use of modern times."

Cassiodorus, with a noble enthusiasm, inspired his monks to their task. He even provided lamps
of ingenious construction, that seem to have been self-trimming, to aid them in their work.
He himself set an example of literary diligence, astonishing in one of his age.

Putnam is justified in his praises of this remarkable character when he declares: "It is not
too much to say that the continuity of thought and civilization of the ancient world with that
of the middle ages was due, more than to any other one man, to the life and labors of Cassiodorus."

But the monk was more than a scribe and a collector of books, he became the chronicler and
the school-teacher. "The records that have come down to us of several centuries of medieval
European history are due almost exclusively to the labors of the monastic chroniclers." A vast
fund of information, the value of which is impaired, it is true, by much useless stuff, concerning
medieval customs, laws and events, was collected by these unscientific historians and is now
accessible to the student.

At the end of the ninth century nearly all the monasteries of Europe conducted schools open
to the children of the neighborhood. The character of the educational training of the times
is not to be judged by modern standards. A beginning had to be made, and that too at a time
"when neither local nor national governments had assumed any responsibilities in connection
with elementary education, and when the municipalities were too ignorant, and in many cases
too poor, to make provision for the education of the children." It is therefore to the lasting
credit of Benedict, inspired no doubt by the example of Cassiodorus, that he commanded his
monks to read, encouraged literary work, and made provision for the education of the young.

The Benedictines rendered a great social service in reclaiming deserted regions and in clearing
forests. "The monasteries," says Maitland, "were, in those days of misrule and turbulence,
beyond all price, not only as places where (it may be imperfectly, but better than elsewhere)
God was worshipped,... but as central points whence agriculture was to spread over bleak hills
and barren downs and marshy plains, and deal its bread to millions perishing with hunger and
its pestilential train." Roman taxation and barbarian invasions had ruined the farmers, who
left their lands and fled to swell the numbers of the homeless. The monk repeopled these abandoned
but once fertile fields, and carried civilization still deeper into the forests. Many a monastery
with its surrounding buildings became the nucleus of a modern city. The more awful the darkness
of the forest solitudes, the more the monks loved it. They cut down trees in the heart of the
wilderness, and transformed a soil bristling with woods and thickets into rich pastures and
ploughed fields. They stimulated the peasantry to labor, and taught them many useful lessons
in agriculture. Thus, they became an industrial, as well as a spiritual, agency for good.

The habits of the monks brought them into close contact with nature. Even the animals became
their friends. Numerous stories have been related of their wonderful power over wild beasts
and their conversations with the birds. "It is wonderful," says Bede, "that he who faithfully
and loyally obeys the Creator of the universe, should, in his turn, see all the creatures obedient
to his orders and his wishes." They lived, so we are told, in the most intimate relations with
the animal creation. Squirrels leaped to their hands or hid in the folds of their cowls. Stags
came out of the forests in Ireland and offered themselves to some monks who were ploughing,
to replace the oxen carried off by the hunters. Wild animals stopped in their pursuit of game
at the command of St. Laumer. Birds ceased singing at the request of some monks until they
had chanted their evening prayer, and at their word the feathered songsters resumed their music.
A swan was the daily companion of St. Hugh of Lincoln, and manifested its miraculous knowledge
of his approaching death by the most profound melancholy. While all the details of such stories
are not to be accepted as literally true, no doubt some of this poetry of monastic history
rests upon interesting and charming facts.

A fuller discussion of the permanent contributions which the monk made to civilization is reserved
for the last chapter. I have somewhat anticipated a closer scrutiny of his achievements in
order to present a clearer view of his life and labors. His religious duties were, perhaps,
wearisome enough. We might tire of his monotonous chanting and incessant vigils, but it is
gratifying to know that he also engaged in practical and useful employments. The convent became
the house of industry as well as the temple of prayer. The forest glades echoed to the stroke
of the axe as well as to hymns of praise.

The Spread of the Benedictine Rule

It is generally held that Benedict had no presentiment of the vast historical importance of
his system; and that he aspired to nothing beyond the salvation of his own soul and those of
his brethren.

But the rule spread with wonderful rapidity. In every rich valley arose a Benedictine abbey.
Britain, Germany, Scandinavia, France and Spain adopted his rule. Princes, moved by various
motives, hastened to bestow grants of land on the indefatigable missionary who, undeterred
by the wildness of the forest and the fierceness of the barbarian, settled in the remotest
regions. In the various societies of the Benedictines there have been thirty-seven thousand
monasteries and one hundred and fifty thousand abbots. For the space of two hundred and thirty-nine
years the Benedictines governed the church by forty-eight popes chosen from their order. They
boast of two hundred cardinals, seven thousand archbishops, fifteen thousand bishops and four
thousand saints. The astonishing assertion is also made that no less than twenty emperors and
forty-seven kings resigned their crowns to become Benedictine monks. Their convents claim ten
empresses and fifty queens. Many of these earthly rulers retired to the seclusion of the monastery
because their hopes had been crushed by political defeat, or their consciences smitten by reason
of crime or other sins. Some were powerfully attracted by the heroic element of monastic life,
and these therefore spurned the luxuries and emoluments of royalty, in order by personal sacrifice
to achieve spiritual domination in this life, and to render their future salvation certain.
But whatever the motive that drew queens and princes to the monastic order, the retirement
of such large numbers of the nobility indicates the influence of a religious system which could
cope so successfully with the attractions of the palace and the natural passion for political
dominion.

Saint Gregory the Great, the biographer of Benedict, who was born at Rome in 540 A.D. and so
was nearly contemporaneous with Benedict was a zealous promoter of the monastic ideal, and
did as much as any one to advance its ecclesiastical position and influence. He founded seven
monasteries with his paternal inheritance, and became the abbot of one of them. He often expressed
a desire to escape the clamor of the world by retirement to a lonely cell. Inspired by the
loftiest estimates of his holy office, he sought to reform the church in its spirit and life.
Many of his innovations in the church service bordered upon a dangerous and glittering pomp;
but the musical world will always revere his memory for the famous chants that bear his name.

Gregory surrounded himself with monks, and did everything in his power to promote their interests.
He increased the novitiate to two years, and exempted certain monasteries from the control
of the bishops. Other popes added to these exemptions, and thus widened the breach which already
existed between the secular clergy and the monks. He also fixed a penalty of lifelong imprisonment
for abandonment of the monastic life.

Under Gregory's direction many missionary enterprises were carried on, notably that of Augustine
to England. The story runs that one day Gregory saw some men and beautiful children from Britain
put up for sale in the market-place. Deeply sighing, he exclaimed: "Alas for grief! That the
author of darkness possesses men of so bright countenance, and that so great grace of aspect
bears a mind void of inward grace!" He then asked the children the name of their nation. "Angles,"
was the reply. "It is well," he said, "for they have angelic faces. What is the name of your
province?" It was answered, "Deira." "Truly," he said, "De-ira-ns, drawn from anger, and called
to the mercy of Christ. How is your king called?" They answered, "Ælla, or Ella." Then he cried
"Alleluia! it behooves that the praise of God the Creator should be sung in those parts." While
it is hard to accept this evidently fanciful story in its details, it seems quite probable
that the sale of some English slaves in a Roman market drew the attention of Gregory to the
needs of Britain.

Some years afterwards, in 596, Gregory commissioned Augustine, prior of the monastery of St.
Andrew's on the Celian Hill, at Rome, with forty companions, to preach the gospel in Britain.
When this celebrated missionary landed on the island of Thanet, he found monasticism had preceded
him. But what was the nature of this British monasticism? On that question Rome and England
are divided.

The Romanist declares that no country received the Christian faith more directly from the Church
of Rome than did England; that the most careful study of authentic records reveals no doctrinal
strife, no diversity of belief between the early British monks and the Pope of Rome; that St.
Patrick, of Ireland, and St. Columba, of Scotland, were loyal sons of their Roman mother.

The Anglican, on the other hand, believes that Christianity was introduced into Britain independently
of Rome. As to the precise means employed, he has his choice of ten legends. He may hold with
Lane that it is reasonable to suppose one of Paul's ardent converts, burning with fervent zeal,
led the Britons to the cross. Or he may argue with others: "What is more natural than to imagine
that Joseph of Arimathea, driven from Palestine, sailed away to Britain." In proof of this
assumption, we are shown the chapel of St. Joseph, the remains of the oldest Christian church,
where the holy-thorn blossoms earlier than in any other part of England. Many Anglicans wisely
regard all this as legendary. It is also held that St. Patrick and St. Columba were not Romanists,
but represented a type of British Christianity, which, although temporarily subjected to Rome,
yet finally threw off the yoke under Henry VIII. and reasserted its ancient independence. Still
others declare that when Augustine was made archbishop, the seat of ecclesiastical authority
was transferred from Rome to Canterbury, and the English church became an independent branch
of the universal church. It was Catholic, but not Roman.

The difficulty of ascertaining when and by whom Christianity was originally introduced into
southern Britain must be apparent to every student. But some things may be regarded as historically
certain. The whole country had been desolated by war when Augustine arrived. For a hundred
and fifty years the brutality and ignorance of the barbarians had reigned supreme. All traces
of Roman civilization had nearly disappeared with the conquest of the heathen Anglo-Saxons.
Whatever may be thought about the subsequent effects of the triumph of Roman Christianity,
it is due to Rome to recognize the fact that with the coming of the Roman missionaries religion
and knowledge began a new life.

The Anglo-Saxons had destroyed the Christian churches and monasteries, whose origin, as we
have seen, is unknown. They drove away or massacred the priests and monks. Christianity was
practically extirpated in those districts subject to the Germanic yoke. But when Augustine
landed British monks were still to be found in various obscure parts of the country, principally
in Ireland and Wales. Judging from what is known of these monks, it is safe to say that their
habits and teachings were based on the traditions of an earlier Christianity, and that originally
British Christianity was independent of Rome.

The monks in Britain at the time when Augustine landed differed from the Roman monks in their
tonsures, their liturgy, and the observance of Easter, although no material difference in doctrine
can be established. The clergy did not always observe the law of celibacy nor perhaps the Roman
rules of baptism. It is also admitted, even by Catholic historians, that the British monks
refused to acknowledge Augustine their archbishop; that this question divided the royal family;
and that the old British church was not completely subdued until Henry II. conquered Ireland
and Wales. These statements are practically supported by Ethelred L. Taunton, an authoritative
writer, whose sympathy with Roman monasticism is very strong. He thinks that a few of the British
monks submitted to Augustine, but of the rest he says: "They would not heed the call of Augustine,
and on frivolous pretexts refused to acknowledge him." A large body of British monks retired
to the monastery of Bangor, and when King Ethelfrid invaded the district of Wales, he slew
twelve hundred of them in the open field as they were upon their knees praying for the success
of the Britons. It was then that the power of the last remnants of Celtic or British Christianity
was practically broken, and the Roman type henceforth gradually acquired the mastery.

Montalembert says: "In no other country has Catholicism been persecuted with more sanguinary
zeal; and, at the same time, none has greater need of her care." While the latter observation
is open to dispute, it is certainly true that England has never remained quiet under the dominion
of Rome. Goldsmith's tribute to the English character suggests a reasonable explanation of
this historic fact:

     "Stern o'er each bosom reason holds her state,
     Fierce in their native hardiness of soul,
     True to imagined right, above control,
     While even the peasant boasts those rights to scan,
     And learns to venerate himself as man."

The fact to be remembered, as we emerge from these ecclesiastical quarrels and the confusions
of this perplexing history, is that the monks were the intellectual and religious leaders of
those days. They exercised a profound influence upon English society, and had much to do with
the establishment of English institutions.

But, on the other hand, the continent is indebted to England for the gift of many noble monks
who served France and Germany as intellectual and moral guides, at a time when these countries
were in a state of extreme degradation. Boniface, the Apostle to the Germans, who is regarded
by Neander as the Father of the German church and the real founder of the Christian civilization
of Germany, was the gift of the English cloisters, and a native of Devonshire. Alcuin, the
ecclesiastical prime minister of Charlemagne and the greatest educator of his time, was born
and trained in England. Nearly all the leading schools of France were founded or improved by
this celebrated monk. It was largely due to Alcuin's unrivaled energy and splendid talents
that Charlemagne was able to make so many and so glorious educational improvements in his empire.

Notable among the men who introduced the Benedictine rule into England was St. Wilfred (634-709
A.D.), who had traveled extensively in France and Italy, and on his return carried the monastic
rule into northern Britain. He also is credited with establishing a course of musical training
in the English monasteries. He was the most active prelate of his age in the founding of churches
and monasteries, and in securing uniformity of discipline and harmony with the Church of Rome.

One of the most famous monastic retreats of those days was the wild and lonely isle of Iona,
the Mecca of monks and the monastic capital of Scotland. It is a small island, three miles
long and one broad, lying west of Scotland. Many kings of Scotland were crowned here on a stone
which now forms a part of the British coronation chair. Its great monastery enjoyed the distinction
from the sixth to the eighth century of being second to none in its widespread influence in
behalf of the intellectual life of Europe.

This monastery was originally founded in the middle of the sixth century by Columba, the Apostle
to Caledonia, an Irish saint actively associated with a wonderful intellectual awakening. The
rule of the monastery is unknown, but it is probable that it could not have been, at the first,
of the Benedictine type. Columba's followers traveled as missionaries and teachers to all parts
of Europe, and it is said, they dared to sail in their small boats even as far as Iceland.
The monastery which Columba founded here was doubtless of the same character as the establishments
in Ireland. Many of these Celtic buildings were made of the branches of trees and supported
by wooden props. It was some time before properly-constructed wooden churches or monasteries
became general in these wild regions. In such rude huts small libraries were collected and
the monks trained to preach. Ireland was then the center of knowledge in the North. Greek,
Latin, music and such science as the monks possessed were taught to eager pupils. Copies of
their manuscripts are still to be found all over Europe. Their schools were open to the rich
and poor alike. The monks went from house to house teaching and distributing literature. As
late as the sixteenth century, students from various parts of the Continent were to be found
in these Irish schools.

There is an interesting story related of Columba's literary activities. It is said that on
one occasion while visiting his master, Finnian, he undertook to make a clandestine copy of
the abbot's Psalter. When the master learned of the fact, he indignantly charged Columba with
theft, and demanded the copy which he had made, on the ground that a copy made without permission
of the author was the property of the original owner, because a transcript is the offspring
of the original work. Putnam, to whom I am indebted for this story, says: "As far as I have
been able to ascertain, this is the first instance which occurs in the history of European
literature of a contention for a copyright." The conflict for this copyright afterwards developed
into a civil war. The copy of the Latin Psalter "was enshrined in the base of a portable altar
as the national relic of the O'Donnell clan," and was preserved by that family for thirteen
hundred years. It was placed on exhibition as late as 1867, in the museum of the Royal Irish
Academy.

Enough has now been said to enable the reader to understand something of the spirit and labors
of the monks in an age characteristically barbaric. For five centuries, from the fifth to the
tenth, the condition of Europe was deplorable. "It may be doubted," says an old writer, "whether
the worst of the Cæsars exceeded in dark malignity, or in capriciousness of vengeance, the
long-haired kings of France." The moral sense of even the most saintly churchmen seems to have
been blunted by familiarity with atrocities and crimes. Brute force was the common method of
exercising control and administering justice. The barbarians were bold and independent, but
cruel and superstitious. Their furious natures needed taming and their rude minds tutoring.
Even though during this period churches and monasteries were raised in amazing numbers, yet
the spirit of barbarism was so strong that the Christians could scarcely escape its influence.
The power of Christianity was modified by the nature of the people, whose characters it aimed
to transform. The remarks of William Newton Clarke respecting the Christians of the first and
second centuries are also appropriate to the period under review: "The people were changed
by the new faith, but the new faith was changed by the people." Christianity "made a new people,
better than it found them, but they in turn made a new Christianity, with its strong points
illustrated and confirmed in their experience, but with weakness brought in from their defects."

Yes, the work of civilizing the Germanic nations was a task of herculean proportions and of
tremendous significance. Out of these tribes were to be constructed the nations of modern Europe.
To this important mission the monks addressed themselves with such courage, patience, faith
and zeal, as to entitle them to the veneration of posterity. With singular wisdom and unflinching
bravery they carried on their missionary and educational enterprises, in the face of discouragements
and obstacles sufficient to dismay the bravest souls. The tenacious strength of those wild
forces that clashed with the tenderer influences of the cloister should soften our criticism
of the inconsistencies which detract from the glory of those early ministers of righteousness
and exemplars of gentleness and peace.

IV

REFORMED AND MILITARY ORDERS

The monastic institution was never entirely good or entirely bad. In periods of general degradation
there were beautiful exceptions in monasteries ruled by pure and powerful abbots. From the
beginning various monasteries soon departed from their discipline by sheltering iniquity and
laziness, while other establishments faithfully observed the rules. But during the eighth,
ninth and tenth centuries there was a widespread decline in the spirit of devotion and a shameful
relaxation of monastic discipline. Malmesbury, King Alfred, Alcuin, in England, and many continental
writers, sorrowfully testified against the monks because of their vices, their revelings, their
vain and gorgeous ornaments of dress and their waning zeal for virtue. The priests hunted and
fought, prayed, preached, swore and drank as they pleased. "We cannot wonder," says an anonymous
historian, "that they should commit the more reasonable offence of taking wives." Disorders
were common everywhere; the monastic vows were sadly neglected. Political and religious ideals
were lost sight of amid the prevailing confusion and wild commotion of those dark days.

This, then, may be accepted as the usual history of a monastery or a monastic order. First,
vows of poverty, obedience and chastity zealously cherished and observed; as a result of loyalty
to this ideal, a spirit of devotion to righteousness is created, and a pure, lofty type of
Christian life is formed, which, if not the highest and truest, is sufficiently exalted to
win the reverence of worldly men and an extra-ordinary power over their lives and affections.
There naturally follow numerous and valuable gifts of land and gold. The monks become rich
as well as powerful. Then the decline begins. Vast riches have always been a menace to true
spirituality. Perhaps they always will be. The wealthy monk falls a prey to pride and arrogance;
he becomes luxurious in his habits, and lazy in the performance of duty. Vice creeps in and
his moral ruin is complete. The transformation in the character of the monk is accompanied
by a change in public opinion. The monk is now an eyesore; his splendid buildings are viewed
with envy by some, with shame by others. Then arise the vehement cries for the destruction
of his palatial cloister, and the heroic efforts of the remnant that abide faithful to reform
the institution. This has been the pathway over which every monastic order has traveled. As
long as there was sufficient vitality to give birth to reformatory movements, new societies
sprang up as off-shoots of the older orders, some of which adopted the original rules, while
others altered them to suit the views of the reforming founder. "For indeed," says Trench,
"those orders, wonderful at their beginning, and girt up so as to take heaven by storm, seemed
destined to travel in a mournful circle from which there was no escape." These facts partly
explain the reformatory movements which appear from the ninth century on.

The first great saint to enter the lists against monastic corruption was Benedict of Aniane
(750-821 A.D.), a member of a distinguished family in southern France. The Benedictine rule
in his opinion was formed for novices and invalids. He attributed the prevailing laxity among
the monks to the mild discipline. As abbot of a monastery he undertook to reform its affairs
by adopting a system based on Basil of Asia Minor and Pachomius of Egypt. But he leaned too
far back for human nature in the West, and the conclusion was forced upon him that Benedict
of Nursia had formulated a set of rules as strict as could be enforced among the Western monks.
Accordingly he directed his efforts to secure a faithful observance of the original Benedictine
rules, adding, however, a number of rigid and burdensome regulations. Although at first the
monks doubted his sanity, kicked him and spat on him, yet he afterwards succeeded in gathering
about three hundred of them under his rule. Several colonies were sent out from his monastery,
which was built on his patrimonial estate near Montpellier. His last establishment, which was
located near Aix-la-Chapelle, became famous as a center of learning and sanctity.

One of the most celebrated reform monasteries was the convent of Cluny, or Clugny, in Burgundy,
about fifteen miles from Lyons, which was founded by Duke William of Aquitaine in 910. It was
governed by a code based on the rule of St. Benedict. The monastery began with twelve monks
under Bruno, but became so illustrious that under Hugo there were ten thousand monks in the
various convents under its rule. It was made immediately subject to the pope,--that is, exempt
from the jurisdiction of the bishop. Some idea of its splendid equipment may be formed from
the fact that it is said, that in 1245, after the council of Lyons, it entertained Innocent
IV., two patriarchs, twelve cardinals, three archbishops, fifteen bishops, many abbots, St.
Louis, King of France, several princes and princesses, each with a considerable retinue, yet
the monks were not incommoded. It gave to the church three popes,--Gregory VII., Urban II.
and Paschal II.

From his cell at Cluny, Hildebrand, who became the famous Gregory VII., looked out upon a world
distracted by war and sunk in vice. "In Hildebrand's time, while he was studying those annals
in Cluny," says Thomas Starr King, "a boy pope, twelve years old, was master of the spiritual
scepter, and was beginning to lead a life so shameful, foul and execrable that a subsequent
pope said, 'he shuddered to describe it.'"

Connected with the monastery was the largest church in the world, surpassed only a little,
in later years, by St. Peter's at Rome. Its construction was begun in 1089 by the abbot Hugo,
and it was consecrated in 1131, under the administration of Peter the Venerable. It boasted
of twenty-five altars and many costly works of art.

So great was the fame and influence of this establishment that numerous convents in France
and Italy placed themselves under its control, thus forming "The Congregation of Cluny."

After the administration of Peter the Venerable (1122-1156), this illustrious house began to
succumb to the intoxication of success, and it steadily declined in character and influence
until its property was confiscated by the Constituent Assembly, in 1799, and the church sold
for one hundred thousand francs. It is now in ruin.

But in spite of every attempt at reform during the ninth and tenth centuries the decline of
the continental monasteries continued. Many persons of royal blood, accustomed to the license
of palaces, entered the cloister and increased the disorders. The monks naturally respected
their blood and relaxed the discipline in their favor. The result was costly robes, instead
of the simple, monastic garb, riotous living, and a general indifference to spirituality. Spurious
monasteries sprang up with rich lay-abbots at their head, who made the office hereditary in
their families. Laymen were appointed to rich benefices simply that they might enjoy the revenues.
These lay-abbots even went so far as to live with their families in their monasteries, and
rollicking midnight banquets were substituted for the asceticism demanded by the vows. They
traveled extensively attended by splendid retinues. Some of the monks seemed intent on nothing
but obtaining charters of privileges and exemptions from civil and military duties.

In England the state of affairs was even more distressing than on the Continent. The evil effects
of the Saxon invasion, the demoralization that accompanied the influx of paganism, and the
almost complete destruction of the religious institutions of British Christianity have already
been noted. About the year 700, the island was divided among fifteen petty chiefs, who waged
war against one another almost incessantly. Christianity, as introduced by Augustine, had somewhat
mitigated the ferocity of war, and England had begun to make some approach toward a respect
for law and a veneration for the Christian religion, when the Danes came, and with them another
period of disgraceful atrocities and blighting heathenism. The Danish invasion had almost extirpated
the monastic institution in the northern districts. Carnage and devastation reigned everywhere.
Celebrated monasteries fell in ruins and the monks were slain or driven into exile. Hordes
of barbaric warriors roamed the country, burning and plundering.

"At the close of this calamitous period," says Lingard, in his "History and Antiquities of
the Anglo-Saxon Church," "the Anglo-Saxon church presented a melancholy spectacle to the friends
of religion: 1. The laity had resumed the ferocious manners of their pagan forefathers. 2.
The clergy had grown indolent, dissolute and illiterate. 3. The monastic order had been apparently
annihilated. It devolved on King Alfred, victorious over his enemies, to devise and apply the
remedies for these evils." The good king endeavored to restore the monastic institution, but,
owing to the lack of candidates for the monastic habit, he was compelled to import a colony
of monks from Gaul.

The moral results of Alfred's reformatory measures, as well as those of his immediate successors,
were far from satisfactory, although he did vastly stimulate the educational work of the monastic
schools. He devoted himself so faithfully to the gathering of traditions, that he is said to
be the father of English history. The tide of immorality, however, was too strong to be stemmed
in a generation or two. It was a century and a half before there was even an approach to substantial
victory over the disgraceful abuses among the clergy and the monks.

The churchman who is credited with doing most to distinguish the monks as a zealous and faithful
body was Dunstan (924-988 A.D.), first Abbot of Glastonbury, then Bishop of Winchester, and
finally Archbishop of Canterbury. He is the most conspicuous ecclesiastical personage in the
history of those dark days, but his character and labors have given rise to bitter and extensive
controversy.

It was Dunstan's chief aim to subjugate the Anglo-Saxon church to the power of Rome, and to
correct existing abuses by compelling the clergy and the monks to obey the rule of celibacy.
He was a fervent believer in the efficacy of the Benedictine vows, and in the value of clerical
celibacy as a remedy for clerical licentiousness. Naturally, Protestant writers, who hold that
papal supremacy never was a blessing in any country or in any age, and who think that clerical
celibacy has always been a fruitful source of crime and sin, condemn the reforms of Dunstan
in the most unqualified terms. A statement of a few of the many and perplexing facts may assist
us to form a fairly just judgment of the man and his work.

The principle of sacerdotal celibacy appeared early in the history of Christianity, and for
many centuries it was the subject of sharp contention. Roman Catholics themselves have been
divided upon it. In every Christian country, from the Apostolic period onward, there were priests
and teachers who opposed the imposition of this rule upon the clergy, and, on the other hand,
there were those who practiced and advocated celibacy as the indispensable guarantee of spiritual
power and purity.

What the rule of celibacy was at this period, in England, seems uncertain. Lingard maintains
that marriage was always permitted to the clergy in minor orders, who were employed in various
subordinate positions, but that those in higher orders, whose office it was to minister at
the altar and to offer the sacrifice, were expressly bound to a life of the strictest continence.
During the invasion of the Danes, when confusion reigned, many priests in the higher orders
had not only forsaken their vows of chastity, but had plunged into frightful immoralities;
and married clerks of inferior orders were raised to the priesthood to fill the ranks depleted
by war. These promoted clerks were previously required to separate from their wives, but apparently
many of them did not do so. Consequently, from several causes, the married priests became a
numerous body, and since the common opinion seems to have been that a married priest was disgracing
his office, this body was regarded as a menace to the welfare of the church and the state.

Lea, in his elaborate "History of Sacerdotal Celibacy," holds that the rule of celibacy was
only binding on the regulars, or monks, and that the secular priesthood was at liberty to marry.
But from several other passages in his work it seems that he also recognizes the fact that,
while marriage was common, it was in defiance of an ancient canon. "It is evident," he says,
"that the memory of the ancient canons was not forgotten, and that their observance was still
urged by some ardent churchmen, but that the customs of the period had rendered them virtually
obsolete, and that no sufficient means existed of enforcing obedience. If open scandals and
shameless bigamy and concubinage could be restrained, the ecclesiastical authorities were evidently
content. Celibacy could not be enjoined as a law, but was rendered attractive by surrounding
it with privileges and immunities denied to him who yielded to the temptations of the flesh."

Throughout Western Christendom the law of celibacy was openly and shamefully trampled upon,
and every reformer seemed to think that the very first step toward any improvement in clerical
morals was to be taken by enforcing this rule.

When Dunstan commenced his reforms, the clergy were guilty of graver sins than that of living
in marriage relations. Adultery, bigamy, swearing, fighting and drinking were the order of
the day. The monasteries were occupied by secular priests with wives or concubines. All the
chroniclers of this period agree in charging the monks and clergy with a variety of dissipations
and disorders.

It is quite clear, therefore, that in Dunstan's view he was doing the only right thing in trying
to correct the existing abuses by compelling the priests to adopt that celibate life without
which it was popularly believed the highest holiness and the largest usefulness could not be
attained. In the light of this purpose and this common opinion of his time, Dunstan and his
mission should be judged.

Dunstan was aided in his work by King Edgar the Pacific, who, by the way, was himself compelled
to go without his crown seven years for violating the chastity of a nun. Oswald, the Bishop
of Worcester, and Ethelwold, the Bishop of Winchester, were also zealously engaged in the task
of reform.

A law was enacted providing that priests, deacons and sub-deacons should live chastely or resign.
As a result of this law, many priests were ejected from the monasteries and from their official
positions. Strict monks were put in their places. A strong opposition party was created, and
the ejected clergy aroused such discontent that a civil war was barely averted. This state
of things continued until the Norman invasion, when the monks and secular clergy joined forces
in the common defence of their property and ecclesiastical rights.

It would seem that many writers, misled by legends for which Dunstan must not be held responsible,
and blinded by religious prejudice, have unjustly charged him with hypocrisy and even crime.
All his methods may not be defensible when estimated in the light of modern knowledge, and
even his ideal may be rejected when judged by modern standards of Christian character, but
he must be considered with the moral and intellectual life of his times in full view. He was
a champion of the oppressed, a friend of the poor, an unflinching foe of sinful men in the
pulpit or on the throne. His will was inflexible, his independence noble and his energy untiring.
In trying to bring the Anglo-Saxon church into conformity to Rome he was actuated by a higher
motive than the merely selfish desire for ecclesiastical authority. He regarded this harmony
as the only remedy for the prevailing disorders. He believed, like many other churchmen of
unquestioned purity and honesty, that it was necessary to compel temporal authorities to recognize
the power of the church in order to overcome that defiance of moral law which was the chief
characteristic of the kings and princes in that turbulent period.

What the Anglo-Saxon church might have been if the rule of celibacy had not been forced upon
her, and if she had not submitted to Roman authority in other matters, is a theme for speculation
only. The fact is that Dunstan found a church corrupt to the core and left it, as a result
of his purifying efforts, with some semblance, to say the least, of moral influence and spiritual
purity. Some other kind of ecclesiastical polity than that advocated by Dunstan might have
achieved the same results as his, but the simple fact is that none did. In so far as Dunstan
succeeded in his monastic measures, he laid the foundations of an ecclesiastical power which
afterwards became a serious menace to the political freedom of the Anglo-Saxon race. The battle
begun by him raged fiercely between the popes, efficiently supported by the monks, and the
kings of England, with varying fortunes, for many centuries. But perhaps, under the plans of
that benign Providence who presides over the destiny of nations, it was essentially in the
interests of civilization, that the lawlessness of rulers and the vices of the people should
be restrained by that ecclesiastical power, which, in after years, and at the proper time,
should be forced to recede to its legitimate sphere and functions.

Another celebrated reformatory movement was begun by St. Bruno, who founded the Carthusian
Order about the year 1086. Ruskin says: "In their strength, from the foundation of the order
at the close of the eleventh century to the beginning of the fourteenth, they reared in their
mountain fastnesses and sent out to minister to the world a succession of men of immense mental
grasp and serenely authoritative innocence, among whom our own Hugh of Lincoln, in his relations
with Henry II. and Coeur de Lion, is to my mind the most beautiful sacerdotal figure known
to me in history."

Bruno, with six companions, established the famous Grand Chartreuse in a rocky wilderness,
near Grenoble, in France, separated from the rest of the world by a chain of wild mountains,
which are covered with ice and snow for two-thirds of the year.

Until the time of Guigo (1137), the Grand Chartreuse was governed by unwritten rules. Thirteen
monks only were permitted to live together, and sixteen converts in the huts at the foot of
the hill. The policy of this monastery was at first opposed to all connection with other monasteries.
But applications for admission were so numerous that colonies were sent out in various directions,
all subject to the mother house. The Carthusians differed in many respects from other orders.
The rules of Dom Guigo indicate that the chief aim was to preclude the monks from intercourse
with the world, and largely with each other, for each monk had separate apartments, cooked
his own food, and so rarely met with his brethren, that he was practically a hermit. The clothing
consisted of a rough hair shirt, worn next the skin, a white cassock over it, and, when they
went out, a black robe. Fasting was observed at least three days a week, and meat was strictly
forbidden. Respecting contact with women Dom Guigo says: "Under no circumstances whatever do
we allow women to set foot within our precincts, knowing as we do that neither wise man, nor
prophet, nor judge, nor the entertainer of God, nor the sons of God, nor the first created
of mankind, fashioned by God's own hands, could escape the wiles and deceits of women."

Blistering and bleeding, as well as fasting, were employed to control evil impulses. On the
whole, the austerities were as severe as human nature in that wild and cold region could endure.
Yet the prosperity that rewarded the piety and labors of the Carthusian monks proved more than
a match for their rigorous discipline, and in the middle of the thirteenth century we read
charges of laxity and disorder.

The Carthusians settled in England in the twelfth century, and had a famous monastery in London,
since called the Charterhouse. The order was in many respects the most successful attempt at
reform, but as has been said, "the whole order, and each individual member, is like a petrifaction
from the Middle Ages." Owing to its extremely solitary ideal and its severe discipline, it
was unfitted to secure extensive control, or to gain a permanent influence upon the rapidly-developing
European nations. Its chief contributions to modern civilization were made by the gift of noble
men who passed from the seclusion of the cell into the active life of the world, thus practically
proving that the monks' greatest usefulness was attained when loyalty to their vows yielded
to a broader ideal of Christian character and service.

Thus the months passed into years and the years into centuries. Man was slowly working out
his salvation. Painfully, laboriously he emerged out of barbarism into the lower forms of civilization;
wearily he trudged on his way toward the universal kingdom of righteousness and peace.

There were many other attempts at reform which may not even be mentioned, but one character
deserves brief consideration,--Bernard of Clairvaux,--the fairest flower of those corrupt days.
The order to which he belonged was the Cistercians, so named because their mother house was
at Citeaux (Latin, Cistercium), in France. Its members are sometimes called the "White Monks,"
because of their white tunics. Their buildings, with their bare walls and low rafters, were
a rebuke to the splendid edifices of the richer orders. Austere simplicity characterized their
churches, liturgy and habits. Gorgeousness in decoration and ostentation in public services
were carefully avoided. They used no pictures, stained glass or images. Once a week they flogged
their sinful bodies. Only four hours' sleep was allowed. Seeking out the wildest spots and
most rugged peaks they built their retreats, beautiful in their simplicity and furnishing some
of the finest examples of monastic architecture. The order spread into England, where the first
Cistercians were characterized by devoutness and poverty. After a while the hand of fate wrote
of them as it had of so many, "none were more greedy in adding farm to farm; none less scrupulous
in obtaining grants of land from wealthy patrons." In general, the order was no better and
no worse than the rest, but its chief glory is derived from the luster that was shed upon it
by Bernard.

This illustrious counselor of kings and Catholic saint was born in Burgundy in 1091. When about
twenty years of age he entered the monastery at Citeaux with five of his brothers. His genius
might have secured ecclesiastical preferment, but he chose to dig ditches, plant fields and
govern a monastery. He entered the cloister at Citeaux because the monks were few and poor,
and when it became crowded because of his fame, and its rule became lax because of the crowds,
he left the cloister to found a home of his own. The abbot selected twelve monks, following
the number of apostles, and at their head placed young Bernard. He led the twelve to the valley
of Wormwood, and there, in a cheerless forest, he established the monastery of Clairvaux, or
Clear Valley. His rule was fiercely severe because he himself loved hardships and rough fare.
"It in no way befits religion," he writes, "to seek remedies for the body, nor is it good for
health either. You may now and then take some cheap herb,--such as poor men may,--and this
is done sometimes. But to buy drugs, to hunt up doctors, to take doses, is unbecoming to religion
and hostile to purity." His success in winning men to the monastic life was almost phenomenal.
It was said that "mothers hid their sons, wives their husbands, and companions their friends,
lest they be persuaded by his eloquent message to enter the cloister." "He was avoided like
a plague," says one.

Bernard's monks changed the whole face of the country by felling trees and tilling the ground.
Their spiritual power rid the valley of Wormwood of its robbers, and the district grew rich
and prosperous. Thus Bernard became the most famous man of his time. He was the arbiter in
papal elections, the judge in temporal quarrels, the healer of schisms and a powerful preacher
of the crusades. He was the embodiment of all that was best in the thought of his age. His
weaknesses and faults may largely be explained by the fact that no man can rise entirely above
the spirit of his times and absolutely free himself from all pernicious tendencies. "As an
advocate for the rights of the church, for the immunities of the clergy, no less than for the
great interests of morality, he was fierce, intractable, unforgiving, haughty and tyrannical."
There was, however, no note of insincerity in his work or writings, and no tinge of hypocrisy
in fervent zeal. He was brave, honest and pure; controlled always by a consuming passion for
the moral welfare of the people.

Our chief interest in Bernard relates to his monastic work which shed undying luster on his
name. Vaughan, in his "Hours with the Mystics," says of him: "His incessant cry for Europe
is, Better monasteries, and more of them. Let these ecclesiastical castles multiply; let them
cover and command the land, well garrisoned with men of God, and then, despite all heresy and
schism, theocracy will flourish, the earth shall yield her increase, and all people praise
the Lord.... Bernard had the satisfaction of improving and extending monasticism to the utmost;
of sewing together, with tolerable success, the rended vesture of the papacy; of suppressing
a more popular and more scriptural Christianity for the benefit of his despotic order; of quenching
for a time, by the extinction of Abelard, the spirit of free inquiry, and of seeing his ascetic
and superhuman ideal of religion everywhere accepted as the genuine type of Christianity."

But in spite of Dunstans, Brunos and Bernards, the monastic institution keeps on crumbling.
The edifice will not stand much more propping and tinkering. While we admire this display of
moral force, this commendable struggle of fresh courage and new hope against disintegrating
forces, the conviction gains ground that something is radically wrong with the institution.
There is something in it which fosters greed and desperate ambition. "Is it not a shame," we
feel compelled to ask, "that so much splendid, chivalrous courage and magnificent energy should
be expended in trying to prevent a structure from falling, which, it seems, could not possibly
have been saved?" But while the decay could not be stayed, we must admire the noble aims and
pious enthusiasm of the reformers who sought to preserve an institution which to them seemed
the only hope of a sinful world.

Dr. Storrs, in his life of Bernard, says: "His soon-canonized name has shone starlike in history
ever since he was buried; and it will not hereafter decline from its height or lose its luster,
while men continue to recognize with honor the temper of devoted Christian consecration, a
character compact of noble forces, and infused with self-forgetful love for God and man."

The Military Religious Orders

The life of Bernard forms an appropriate introduction to a consideration of the Military Religious
Orders. Although weary with labor and the weight of years, he traveled over Europe preaching
the second crusade. "To kill or to be killed for Christ's sake is alike righteous and alike
safe," this was his message to the world. In spite of the opposition of court advisers, Bernard
induced Louis VII. and Conrad of Germany to take the crusader's vow. He gave the Knights Templars
a new rule and kindled afresh a zeal for the knighthood. Although the members of the Military
Orders were not monks in the strict sense of the word, yet they were soldier-monks, and as
such deserve to be mentioned here.

At the basis of all monastic orders, as has been pointed out, were the three vows of obedience,
celibacy and poverty. Certain orders, by adding to these rules other obligations, or by laying
special stress on one of the three ancient vows, produced new and distinct types of monastic
character and life.

The Knights of the Hospital assumed as their peculiar work the care of the sick. The Begging
Friars, as will be seen later, were distinguished by the importance which they attached to
the rule of poverty; the Jesuits, by exalting the law of unquestioning obedience. In view of
the warlike character of the Middle Ages it is strange the soldier-monk did not appear earlier
than he did. The abbots, in many cases, were feudal lords with immense possessions which needed
protection like secular property, but as this could not be secured by the arts of peace, we
find traces of the union of the soldier and the monk before the distinct orders professing
that character. The immediate cause of such organizations was the crusades. There were numerous
societies of this character, some of them so far removed from the monastic type as scarcely
to be ranked with monastic institutions. One list mentions two hundred and seven of these Orders
of Knighthood, comprising many varieties in theory and practice. The most important were three,--the
Knights of the Hospital, or the Knights of St. John; the Knights Templars; and the Teutonic
Knights. The Hospitallers wore black mantles with white crosses, the Templars white mantles
with red crosses, and the Teutonic Knights white mantles with black crosses. The mantles were
in fact the robe of the monk adorned with a cross. The whole system was really a marriage of
monasticism and chivalry, as Gibbon says: "The firmest bulwark of Jerusalem was founded in
the Knights of the Hospital and of the Temple, that strange association of monastic and military
life.

A passage in the Alexiad quoted in Walter Scott's "Robert of Paris" reads: "As for the multitude
of those who advanced toward the great city let it be enough to say, that they were as the
stars in the heaven or as the sand of the seashore. They were in the words of Homer, as many
as the leaves and flowers of spring." This figurative description is almost literally true.
Europe poured her men and her wealth into the East. No one but an eye-witness can conceive
of the vast amount of suffering endured by those fanatical multitudes as they roamed the streets
of Jerusalem looking for shelter, or lay starving by the roadside on a bed of grass.

The term Hospitallers was applied to certain brotherhoods of monks and laymen. While professing
some monastic rule, the members of these societies devoted themselves solely to caring for
the sick and the poor, the hospitals in those days being connected with the monasteries.

About the year 1050 some Italian merchants secured permission to build a convent in Jerusalem
to shelter Latin pilgrims. The hotels which sprang up after this were gradually transformed
into hospitals for the care of the sick and presided over by Benedictine monks. The sick were
carefully nursed and shelter granted to as many as could be accommodated. Nobles abandoned
the profession of arms and, becoming monks, devoted themselves to caring for the unfortunate
crusaders in these inns. The work rapidly increased in extent and importance. In the year 1099,
Godfrey de Bouillon endowed the original hospital, which had been dedicated to St. John. He
also established many other monasteries on this holy soil. The monks, most of whom were also
knights, formed an organization which received confirmation from Rome, as "The Knights of St.
John of Jerusalem." The order rapidly assumed a distinctly military character, for, to do its
work completely, it must not only care for the sick in Jerusalem, but defend the pilgrim on
his way to the Holy City. This ended in an undertaking to defend Christendom against Mohammedan
invasion and in fighting for the recovery of the Holy Sepulcher.

After visiting some of these Palestinian monasteries, a king of Hungary thus describes his
impressions: "Lodging in their houses, I have seen them feed every day innumerable multitudes
of poor, the sick laid on good beds and treated with great care. In a word, the Knights of
St. John are employed sometimes like Martha, in action, and sometimes like Mary, in contemplation,
and this noble militia consecrate their days either in their infirmaries or else in engagements
against the enemies of the cross."

The Knights Templars were far more militant than the Knights of St. John, but they also were
actuated by the monastic spirit. Bernard tried to inspire this order with a strong Christian
zeal so that, as he said, "War should become something of which God could approve." The success
which attended its operations led as usual to its corruption and decline. Beginning with a
few crusaders leagued together for service and living on the site of the ancient Temple at
Jerusalem, it soon widened the scope of its services and became a powerful branch of the crusading
army. It was charged by Philip IV. of France, in 1307, with the most fearful crimes, to sustain
or to deny which accusations many volumes have been composed. Five years later the order was
suppressed and its vast accumulations transferred to the Knights of St. John. "The horrible
fate of the Templars," says Allen, "was taken by many as a beginning and omen of the destruction
that would soon pass upon all the hated religious orders. And so this final burst of enthusiasm
and splendor in the religious life was among the prognostics of a state of things in which
monasticism must fade quite away."

Wondrous changes have taken place in those dark and troubled years since Benedict began his
labors at Monte Cassino, in 529. The monk has prayed alone in the mountains, and converted
the barbarian in the forest. He has preached the crusades in magnificent cathedrals, and crossed
stormy seas in his frail bark. He has made the schools famous by his literary achievements,
and taught children the alphabet in the woodland cell. He has been good and bad, proud and
humble, rich and poor, arrogant and gentle. He has met the shock of lances on his prancing
steed, and trudged barefoot from town to town. He has copied manuscripts in the lonely Scottish
isle, and bathed the fevered brow of the pilgrim in the hospital at Jerusalem. He has dug ditches,
and governed the world as the pope of the Church. He has held the plow in the furrow, and thwarted
the devices of the king. He has befriended the poor, and imposed penance upon princes. He has
imitated the poverty and purity of Jesus, and aped the pomp and vice of kings. He has dwelt
solitary on cold mountains, subsisting on bread, roots and water, and he has surrounded himself
with menials ready to gratify every luxurious wish, amid the splendor of palatial cloisters.
Still there are new types and phases of monasticism yet to appear. The monk has other tasks
to undertake, for the world is not yet sufficiently wearied of his presence to destroy his
cloister and banish him from the land.

V

THE MENDICANT FRIARS

Abraham Lincoln only applied a general principle to a specific case when he said, "This nation
cannot long endure half slave and half free." Glaring inconsistencies between faith and practice
will eventually destroy any institution, however lofty its ideal or noble its foundation. God
suffers long and is kind, but His forbearance is not limitless. Monasticism, as has been shown,
was never free from serious inconsistency, from moral dualism. But the power of reform prolonged
its existence. It was constantly producing fresh models of its ancient ideals. It had a hidden
reserve-force from which it supplied shining examples of a living faith and a self-denying
love, just at the time when it seemed as if the system was about to perish forever. When these
fresh exhibitions of monastic fidelity likewise became tarnished, when men had tired of them
and predicted the speedy collapse of the institution, forth from the cloister came another
body of monkish recruits, to convince the world that monasticism was not dead; that it did
not intend to die; that it was mightier than all its enemies. The day came, however, when the
world lost its confidence in an institution which required such constant reforming to keep
it pure, which demanded so much cleansing to keep it clean. Ideals that could so quickly lose
their influence for good came to be looked upon with suspicion.

At the beginning of the thirteenth century we are confronted by the anomaly of a church grossly
corrupt but widely obeyed. She is nearing the pinnacle of her power and the zenith of her glory,
although the parochial clergy have sunk into vice and incapacity, and the monks, as a class,
are lazy, ignorant and notoriously corrupt. Two things, especially, command the attention,--first,
the immorality and laxity of the monks; and second, the growth of heresies and the tendency
toward open schism. The necessity of reform was clearly apprehended by the church as well as
by the heretical parties, but, since the church had such a hold upon society, those who sought
to reform the monasteries by returning to old beliefs and ancient customs were much more in
favor than those who left the church and opposed her from the outside. The impossibility of
substantial, internal reform had not yet come to be generally recognized. As time passed the
conviction that it was of no use to attempt reforms from the inside gained ground; then the
separatists multiplied, and the shedding of blood commenced. The world had to learn anew that
it was futile to put new wine into old bottles or to patch new cloth on an old garment.

"It is the privilege of genius," says Trench, "to evoke a new creation, where to common eyes
all appears barren and worn out." Francis and Dominic evoked this new creation; but although
the monk now will appear in a new garb, he will prove himself to be about the same old character
whom the world has known a great many years; when this discovery is made monasticism is doomed.
Perplexed Europe will anxiously seek some means of destruction, but God will have Luther ready
to aid in the solution of the problem.

Francis Bernardone, 1182-1226 A.D..

Saint Francis, the founder of the Franciscan Order, was born at Assisi, a walled town of Umbria,
in Italy. His father, Peter Bernardone, or Bernardo, was in France on business when his son
was born and named. On his return, or, as some say, at a later time, he changed his son's name
from John to Francis. His wealth enabled him to supply Francis with the funds necessary to
maintain his leadership among gay companions. Catholic writers are fond of describing the early
years of their saints as marked by vice in order to portray them as miracles of grace. It is
therefore uncertain whether Francis was anything worse than a happy, joyous lad, who loved
fine clothes, midnight songs and parties of pleasure. He was certainly a very popular and courteous
lad, very much in love with the world. During a short service in the army he was taken prisoner.
After his release he fell sick, and experienced a temporary disgust with his past life. With
his renewed health his love of festivities and dress returned.

Walking out one day, dressed in a handsome new suit, he met a poor and ill-clad soldier; moved
to pity, he exchanged his fine clothes for the rags of the stranger. That night Francis dreamed
of a splendid castle, with gorgeous banners flying from its ramparts, and suits of armor adorned
with the cross. "These," said a voice, "are for you and for your soldiers." We are told that
this was intended to be taken spiritually and was prophetic of the Begging Friars, but Francis
misunderstood the dream, taking it as a token of military achievements. The next day he set
off mounted on a fine horse, saying as he left, "I shall be a great prince." But his weak frame
could not endure such rough usage and he was taken sick at Spoleto. Again he dreamed. This
time the vision revealed his misinterpretation of the former message, and so, on his recovery,
he returned somewhat crestfallen to Assisi, where he gave his friends a farewell feast. Thus
at the threshold of his career we note two important facts,--disease and dreams. All through
his life he had these fits of sickness, attended by dreams; and throughout his life he was
guided by these visions. Neander remarks: "It would be a matter of some importance if we could
be more exactly informed with regard to the nature of his disease and the way in which it affected
his physical and mental constitution. Perhaps it might assist us to a more satisfactory explanation
of the eccentric vein in his life, that singular mixture of religious enthusiasm bordering
insanity; but we are left wholly in the dark."

Francis now devoted himself to his father's business, but dreams and visions continued to distress
him. His spiritual fervor increased daily. He grieved for the poor and gave himself to the
care of the sick, especially the lepers. During a visit to Rome he became so sad at the sight
of desperate poverty that he impetuously flung his bag of gold upon the altar with such force
as to startle the worshipers. He went out from the church, exchanged his clothes for a beggar's
rags, and stood for hours asking alms among a crowd of filthy beggars.

But though Francis longed to associate himself in some way with the lowest classes, he could
obtain no certain light upon his duty. While prostrated before the crucifix, in the dilapidated
church of St. Damian, in Assisi, he heard a voice saying, "Francis, seest thou not that my
house is in ruins? Go and restore it for me." Again it is said that this pointed to his great
life-work of restoring spiritual power to the church, but he again accepted the message in
a literal sense. Delighted to receive a command so specific, the kneeling Francis fervently
responded, "With good will, Lord," and gladly entered upon the task of repairing the church
of St. Damian. "Having fortified himself by the sign of the cross," he took a horse and a valuable
bundle of goods belonging to his father and sold both at Falingo. Instead of turning the proceeds
over to his father, Francis offered them to the priest of St. Damian, who, fearing the father's
displeasure, refused to accept the stolen funds. The young zealot, "who had utter contempt
for money," threw the gold on one of the windows of the church. Such is the story as gleaned
from Catholic sources. The heretics, who have criticised Francis for this conduct, are answered
by the following ingenious but dangerous sophistry: "It is certainly quite contrary to the
ordinary law of justice for one man to take for himself the property of another; but if Almighty
God, to whom all things belong, and for whom we are only stewards, is pleased to dispense with
this His own law in a particular case, and to bestow what He has hitherto given to one upon
another, He confers at the same time a valid title to the gift, and it is no robbery in him
who has received it to act upon that title."

Fearing his father's wrath, Francis hid himself in the priest's room, and contemporary authors
assure us that when the irate parent entered, Francis was miraculously let into the wall. Wading
(1731 A.D.) says the hollow place may still be seen in the wall.

After a month, the young hero, confident of his courage to face his father, came forth pale
and weak, only to be stoned as a madman by the people. His father locked him up in the house,
but the tenderer compassion of his mother released him from his bonds, and he found refuge
with the priest. When his father demanded his return, Francis tore off his clothes and, as
he flung the last rag at the feet of his astounded parent, he exclaimed: "Peter Bernardone
was my father; I have but one father, He that is in Heaven." The crowd was deeply moved, especially
when they saw before them the hair shirt which Francis had secretly worn under his garments.
Gathering up all that was left to him of his son, the father sadly departed, leaving the young
enthusiast to fight his own way through the world. Many times after that, the parents, who
tenderly watched over the lad in sickness and prayed for his recovery, saw their beloved son
leading his barefooted beggars through the streets of his native town. But he will never more
sing his gay songs underneath their roof or sally forth with his merry companions in search
of pleasure. Francis was given a laborer's cloak, upon which he made the sign of a cross with
some mortar, "thus manifesting what he wished to be, a half-naked poor one, and a crucified
man." Such was the saint, in 1206, in his twenty-fifth year.

Francis now went forth, singing sacred songs, begging his food, and helping the sick and the
poor. He was employed "in the vilest affairs of the scullery" in a neighboring monastery. At
this time he clothed himself in the monk's dress, a short tunic, a leathern girdle, shoes and
a staff. He waited upon lepers and kissed their disgusting ulcers. Yet more, he instantly cured
a dreadfully cancerous face by kissing it. He ate the most revolting messes, reproaching himself
for recoiling in nausea. Thus the pauper of Jesus Christ conquered his pride and luxurious tastes.

Francis finally returned to repair the church of St. Damian. The people derided, even stoned
him, but he had learned to rejoice in abuse. They did not know of what stern stuff their fellow-townsman
was made. He bore all their insults meekly, and persevered in his work, carrying stones with
his own hands and promising the blessing of God on all who helped him in his joyful task. His
kindness and smiles melted hatred; derision turned to admiration. "Many were moved to tears,"
says his biographers, "while Francis worked on with cheerful simplicity, begging his materials,
stone by stone, and singing psalms about the streets."

Two years after his conversion, or in 1208, while kneeling in the church of Sta. Maria dei
Angeli, he heard the words of Christ: "Provide neither gold nor silver nor brass in your purses,
neither two coats nor shoes nor staff, but go and preach." Afterwards, when the meaning of
these words was explained to him, he exclaimed: "This is what I seek for!" He threw away his
wallet, took off his shoes, and replaced his leather girdle by a cord. His hermit's tunic appearing
too delicate, he put on a coarse, gray robe, reaching to his feet, with sleeves that came down
over his fingers; to this he added a hood, covering his head and face. Clothing of this character
he wore to the end of his life. This was in 1208, which is regarded as the first year of the
Order of St. Francis. The next year Francis gave this habit to those who had joined him.

So the first and chief of Franciscan friars, unattended by mortal companions, went humbly forth
to proclaim the grandeur and goodness of a God, who, according to monastic teaching, demands
penance and poverty of his creatures as the price of his highest favor and richest blessings.
Nearly seven hundred long years have passed since that eventful day, but the begging Brothers
of Francis still traverse those Italian highways over which the saint now journeyed with meek
and joyous spirit.

In 1210, with eleven companions, his entire band, Francis went to Rome to secure papal sanction.
Pope Innocent III. was walking in a garden of the Lateran Palace when a beggar, dusty and pale,
confronted him. Provoked at being disturbed in his thoughts, he drove him away. That night
it was the pope's turn to dream. He saw a falling church supported by a poor and miserable
man. Of course, that man was Francis. Four or five years later the pope will dream the same
thing again. Then the poor man will be Dominic. In the morning he sent for the monk whom he
had driven from him as a madman the day before. Standing before his holiness and the college
of cardinals, Francis pleaded his cause in a touching and eloquent parable. His quiet, earnest
manner and clear blue eyes impressed every one. The pope did not give him formal sanction however--this
was left for Honorius III., November 29, 1223--but he verbally permitted him to establish his
order and to continue his preaching.

Several times Francis set out to preach to the Mohammedans, but failed to reach his destination.
He finally visited Egypt during the siege of Damietta, and at the risk of his life he went
forth to preach to the sultan encamped on the Nile. He is described by an eye-witness "as an
ignorant and simple man, beloved of God and men." His courage and personal magnetism won the
Mohammedan's sympathy but not his soul. Although Francis courted martyrdom, and offered to
walk through fire to prove the truth of his message, the Oriental took it all too good-naturedly
to put him to the test, and dismissed him with kindness.

Francis was a great lover of birds. The swallows he called his sisters. A bird in the cage
excited his deepest sympathy. It is said he sometimes preached to the feathered songsters.
Longfellow has cast one of these homilies into poetic form:

     "O brother birds, St. Francis said,
     Ye come to me and ask for bread,
     But not with bread alone to-day
     Shall ye be fed and sent away.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Oh, doubly are ye bound to praise
     The great Creator in your lays;
     He giveth you your plumes of down,
     Your crimson hoods, your cloaks of brown.

     He giveth you your wings to fly
     And breathe a purer air on high,
     And careth for you everywhere,
     Who for yourselves so little care."

Like all ascetics, Francis was tempted in visions. One cold night he fancied he was in a home
of his own, with his wife and children around him. Rushing out of his cell he heaped up seven
hills of snow to represent a wife, four sons and daughters, and two servants. "Make haste,"
he cried, "provide clothing for them lest they perish with the cold," and falling upon the
imaginary group, he dispelled the vision of domestic bliss in the cold embrace of the winter's
snow. Mrs. Oliphant points out the fact that, unlike most of the hermits and monks, Francis
dreams not of dancing girls, but of the pure love of a wife and the modest joys of a home and
children. She beautifully says: "Had he, for one sweet, miserable moment, gone back to some
old imagination and seen the unborn faces shine beside the never-lighted fire? But Francis
does not say a word of any such trial going on in his heart. He dissipates the dream by the
chill touch of the snow, by still nature hushing the fiery thoughts, by sudden action, so violent
as to stir the blood in his veins; and then the curtain of prayer and silence falls over him,
and the convent walls close black around."

The experience of the saint on Mount Alverno deserves special consideration, not merely on
account of its singularity, but also because it affords a striking illustration of the difficulties
one encounters in trying to get at the truth in monastic narratives. Francis had retired to
Mount Alverno, a wild and rugged solitude, to meditate upon the Lord's passion. For days he
had been almost distracted with grief and holy sympathy. Suddenly a seraph with six wings stood
before him. When the heavenly being departed, the marks of the Crucified One appeared upon
the saint's body. St. Bonaventure says: "His feet and hands were seen to be perforated by nails
in their middle; the heads of the nails, round and black, were on the inside of the hands,
and on the upper parts of the feet; the points, which were rather long, and which came out
on the opposite sides, were turned and raised above the flesh, from which they came out." There
also appeared on his right side a red wound, which often oozed a sacred blood that stained
his tunic.

This remarkable story has provoked considerable discussion. One's conclusions respecting its
credibility will quite likely be determined by his general view of numerous similar narratives,
and by the degree of his confidence in the value of human testimony touching such matters.
The incongruities and palpable impostures that seriously impair the general reliability of
monkish historians render it difficult to distinguish between the truths and errors in their
writings.

Some authorities hold that the marks did not appear on St. Francis, and that the story is without
foundation. But Roman writers bring forward the three early biographers of Francis who claim
that the marks did appear. Pope Alexander IV. publicly averred that he saw the wounds, and
pronounced it heresy to doubt the report. Popes Benedict XI., Sixtus IV., and Sixtus V. consecrated
and canonized the impressions by instituting a particular festival in their honor. Numerous
persons are said to have seen the marks and to have kissed the nails, after the death of the
saint. Singularly enough, the Dominicans were inclined to regard the story as a piece of imposture
designed to exalt Francis above Dominic.

But, if it be admitted that the marks did appear, as it is not improbable, how shall the phenomenon
be explained? At least four theories are held: 1. Fraud; 2. The irresponsible self-infliction
of the wounds; 3. Physical effects due to mental suggestion or some other psychic cause; 4.
Miracle.

1. The temptation is strong to claim a fraud, especially because the same witnesses who testify
to the truth of the tale, also relate such monstrous, incredible stories, that one is almost
forced to doubt either their integrity or their sanity. But there is no evidence in support
of so serious an indictment. After showing that signs and portents attend every crisis in history,
Mrs. Oliphant says: "Every great spiritual awakening has been accompanied by phenomena quite
incomprehensible, which none but the vulgar mind can attribute to trickery and imposture;"
but still she herself remains in doubt about the whole story.

2. Although Mosheim uses the term "fraud," it would seem that he means rather the irresponsible
self-infliction of the wounds. He says: "As he [Francis] was a most superstitious and fanatical
mortal, it is undoubtedly evident that he imprinted on himself the holy wounds. Paul's words,
'I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus,' may have suggested the idea of the fraud."
The notion certainly prevailed that Francis was a sort of second Christ, and a book was circulated
showing how he might be compared to Christ in forty particulars. There are many things in his
biography which, if true, indicate that Francis yearned to imitate literally the experiences
of his Lord.

3. Numerous experiments, conducted by scientific men, have established the fact that red marks,
swellings, blisters, bleeding and wounds have been produced by mental suggestion. Björnstrom,
in his work on "Hypnotism," after recounting various experiments showing the effect of the
imagination on the body, says, respecting the stigmata of the Middle Ages: "Such marks can
be produced by hypnotism without deceit and without the miracles of the higher powers." Prof.
Fisher declares: "There is no room for the suspicion of deceit. The idea of a strange physical
effect of an abnormal state is more plausible." Trench thinks this is a reasonable view in
the case of a man like Francis, "with a temperament so irrepressible, of an organization so
delicate, permeated through and through with the anguish of the Lord's sufferings, passionately
and continually dwelling on the one circumstance of his crucifixion." But others, despairing
of any rational solution, cut the Gordian knot and declare that "the kindest thing to think
about Francis is that he was crazy."

4. Roman Catholics naturally reject all explanations that exclude the supernatural, for, as
Father Candide Chalippe affirms: "Catholics ought to be cautious in adopting anything coming
from heretics; their opinions are almost always contagious." He therefore holds fast to the
miracles in the lives of the saints, not only because he accepts the evidence, but because
he believes these wonderful stories "add great resplendency to the merits of the saints, and,
consequently, give great weight to the example they afford us."

It is altogether probable that each one will continue to view the whole affair as his predispositions
and religious convictions direct; some unconvinced by traditionary evidence and undismayed
by charges of heresy; others devoutly accepting every monkish miracle and marveling at the
obstinacy of unbelief.

Two years after the event just described Francis was carried on a cot outside the walls of
Assisi, where, lifting his hands he blessed his native city. Some few days later, on October
4, 1226, he passed away, exclaiming, "Welcome, Sister Death!"

Whatever we may think of the legends that cluster about his life, Francis himself must not
be held responsible for all that has been written about him. He himself was no phantom or mythical
being, but a real, earnest man who, according to his light, tried to serve his generation.
As he himself said: "A man is just so much and no more as he is in the sight of God." "Francis
appears to me," says Forsyth, "a genuine, original hero, independent, magnanimous, incorruptible.
His powers seemed designed to regenerate society; but taking a wrong direction, they sank men
into beggars." Through the mist of tradition the holy beggar and saintly hero shines forth
as a loving, gentle soul, unkind to none but himself. However his biography may be regarded,
his life illustrates the beauty and power of voluntary renunciation,--the fountain not only
of religion but of all true nobility of character. He may have been ignorant, perhaps grossly
so, as Mosheim thinks, but nevertheless he merits our highest praise for striving honestly
to keep his vow of poverty in the days when worldly monks disgraced their sacred profession
by greed, ambition, and lustful indulgence.

The Franciscan Orders

The orders which Francis founded were of three classes:

1. Franciscan Friars or Order of Friars Minor, called also Gray or Begging Friars. The year
in which Francis took the habit, 1208, is reckoned the first year of the order, but the Rule
was not given until 1210.

This Rule, which has not been preserved, was very simple, and doubtless consisted of a group
of gospel passages, bearing on the vow of poverty, together with a few precepts about the occupations
of the brethren. The pope was not asked to sanction the Rule but only to give his approbation
to the missions of the little band. Some of the cardinals expressed their doubts about the
mode of life provided for in the rules. "But," replied Giovanni di San Paolo, "if we hold that
to observe gospel perfection and make profession of it is an irrational and impossible innovation,
are we not convicted of blasphemy against Christ, the Author of the Gospel?"

There was also the Rule of 1221, which makes an intermediate stage between the first Rule and
that which was approved by the pope November 29, 1223. The Rule of 1210 was thoroughly Franciscan.
It was the expression of the passionate, fervent soul of Francis. It was the cry of the human
heart for God and purity. The Rule of 1223 shows that the church had begun to direct the movement.
Sabatier says of these two rules: "At the bottom of it all is the antinome of law and love.
Under the reign of law we are the mercenaries of God, bound down to an irksome task, but paid
a hundred-fold, and with an indisputable right to our wages." Such was the conception underlying
the Rule of 1223. That of 1210 is thus described: "Under the rule of love we are the sons of
God, and co-workers with Him; we give ourselves to Him without bargaining and without expectation;
we follow Jesus, not because this is well, but because we cannot do otherwise, because we feel
that He has loved us and we love Him in our turn."

Francis would not allow his monks to be called Friars; he preferred Friars Minor or Little
Brothers as a more humble designation[F].

[Footnote F: Appendix, Note F.]

Ten years after the founding of the order, it is claimed, over five thousand friars assembled
in Rome for the general chapter. The monks lodged in huts made of matting and hence this convention
has been called the "Chapter of Mats." The order was strongest numerically about fifty years
after the death of Francis, when it numbered eight thousand convents and two hundred thousand
monks. Many of its members were highly distinguished, such as St. Bonaventura, Duns Scotus,
Roger Bacon and Cardinal Ximenes.

2. Nuns of St. Clara or Poor Claras, dates from 1212, but it did not receive its rule from
Francis until 1224. The order was founded in the following manner: Clara, a daughter of a noble
family, was distinguished for her beauty and by her love for the poor. Francis often met her,
and, in the language of his biographer, "exhorted her to a contempt of the world and poured
into her ears the sweetness of Christ." Guided, no doubt, by his counsel, she stole one night
from her home to a neighboring church where Francis and his beggars were assembled. Her long
and beautiful hair was cut off, while a coarse woolen gown was substituted for her own rich
garments. Standing in the midst of the ragged monks, she renounced the dregs of Babylon and
a wicked world, pledging her future to the monastic institution. Out from this little church
into the darkness of the night, Francis led this beautiful girl of seventeen years and committed
her to a Benedictine nunnery. Later on Clara became the abbess of a Franciscan convent at St.
Damian, and the Sisterhood of St. Clara was established. It was an order of sadness and penitential
tears. It is said that Clara never but once (when she received the blessing of the pope) lifted
her eyelids so that the color of her eyes might be discerned.

3. The Third Order, called also "Brotherhood of Penitence," was composed of lay men and women.
So many husbands and wives were desirous of leaving their homes in order to enter the monastic
state, that Francis, not wishing to break up happy marriages, so it is said, was compelled
to give these enthusiasts some sort of a rule by which they might compromise between their
established life and the monastic career. This state of things led to the formation, in 1221,
of the Third Order of St. Francis, or the Order of Tertiaries, in relation to the Friars Minor
and the Poor Claras. Sabatier says this generally-accepted date is wrong; that it is impossible
to fix any date, for that which came to be known as the Third Order was born of the enthusiasm
excited by the preaching of Francis soon after his return from Rome in 1210. Candidates for
admission into this order were required to make profession of all the orthodox truths, special
care being employed to guard against the intrusion of heretics. Days of fasting and abstinence
were enjoined, and members were urged to avoid profanity, the theater, dancing and law-suits.
The order met with astonishing success, cardinals, bishops, emperors, empresses, kings and
queens, gladly enrolling themselves among the followers of St. Francis.

Dominic de Guzman, 1170-1221 A.D.

Half-way between Osma and Aranda in Old Castile, Spain, is a little village known as "the fortunate
Calahorra." Here was the castle of the Guzmans, where Dominic was born. His family was of high
rank and character, a noble house of warriors, statesmen and saints. If we accept the legends,
his greatness was foreshadowed. Before his birth, his mother dreamed she saw her son under
the figure of a black-and-white dog, with a torch in his mouth. "A true dream," says Milman,
"for he will scent out heresy and apply the torch to the faggots;" but, as will be seen later,
this observation does not rest on undisputed evidence.

In the year 1191, when Spain was desolated by a terrible famine, Dominic was just finishing
his theological studies. He gave away his money and sold his clothes, his furniture and even
his precious manuscripts, that he might relieve distress. When his companions expressed astonishment
that he should sell his books, Dominic replied: "Would you have me study off these dead skins,
when men are dying of hunger?" This noble utterance is cherished by his admirers as the first
saying from his lips that has passed to posterity.

Dominic was educated in the schools of Palencia, afterwards a university, where he devoted
six years to the arts and four to theology. In 1194, when twenty-five years of age, Dominic
became a canon regular, at Osma, under the rule of St. Augustine. Nine years after he accompanied
his bishop, Don Diego, on an embassy for the king of Castile. When they crossed the Pyrenees
they found themselves in an atmosphere of heresy. The country was filled with preachers of
strange doctrines, who had little respect for Dominic, his bishop, or their Roman pontiff.
The experiences of this journey inspired in Dominic a desire to aid in the extermination of
heresy. He was also deeply impressed by an important and significant observation. Many of these
heretical preachers were not ignorant fanatics, but well-trained and cultured men. Entire communities
seemed to be possessed by a desire for knowledge and for righteousness. Dominic clearly perceived
that only preachers of a high order, capable of advancing reasonable argument, could overthrow
the Albigensian heresy.

It would be impossible, in a few words, to tell the whole story of this Albigensian movement.
Undoubtedly the term stood for a variety of theological opinions, all of which were in opposition
to the teachings of Rome. "From the very invectives of their enemies," says Hallam, "and the
acts of the Inquisition, it is manifest that almost every shade of heterodoxy was found among
these dissidents, till it vanished in a simple protestation against the wealth and tyranny
of the clergy." Many of the tenets of these enthusiasts were undoubtedly borrowed from the
ancient Manicheism, and would be pronounced heretical by every modern evangelical denomination.
But associated with those holding such doctrines were numerous reformers, whose chief offense
consisted in their incipient Protestantism. However heretical any of these sects may have been,
it is impossible to make them out enemies to the social order, except as all opponents of established
religious traditions create disturbance. "What these bodies held in common," says Hardwick,
"and what made them equally the prey of the inquisitor, was their unwavering belief in the
corruption of the medieval church, especially as governed by the Roman pontiffs."

In 1208 Dominic visited Languedoc a second time, and on his way he encountered the papal legates
returning in pomp to Rome, foiled in their attempt to crush this growing schism. To them he
administered his famous rebuke: "It is not the display of power and pomp, cavalcades of retainers,
and richly-houseled palfreys, or by gorgeous apparel, that the heretics win proselytes; it
is by zealous preaching, by apostolic humility, by austerity, by seeming, it is true, but by
seeming holiness. Zeal must be met by zeal, humility by humility, false sanctity by real sanctity,
preaching falsehood by preaching truth." It is extremely unfortunate for the reputation of
Dominic that he ever departed from the spirit of these noble words, which so clearly state
the conditions of true religious progress.

Dominic now gathered about him a few men of like spirit and began his task of preaching down
heresy. But "the enticing words of man's wisdom" failed to win the Albigensians from what they
believed to be the words of God. So, unmindful of his admonition to the papal legates, Dominic
obtained permission of Innocent III. to hold courts, before which he might summon all persons
suspected of heresy. When eloquence and courts failed, the pope let loose the "dogs of war."
Then followed twenty years of frightful carnage, during which hundreds of thousands of heretics
were slain, and many cities were laid waste by fire and sword. "This was to punish a fanaticism,"
says Hallam, "ten thousand times more innocent than their own, and errors which, according
to the worst imputations, left the laws of humanity and the peace of social life unimpaired."
Peace was concluded in 1229, but the persecution of heretics went on.

What part Dominic personally had in these bloody proceedings is litigated history. His admirers
strive to rescue his memory from the charge that he was "a cruel and bloody man." It is argued
that while the pope and temporal princes carried on the sanguinary war against the heretics,
Dominic confined himself to pleading with them in a spirit of true Christian love. He was a
minister of mercy, not an avenging angel, sword in hand. It has to be conceded that the constant
tradition of the Dominican order that Dominic was the first Inquisitor, whether he bore the
title or not, rests upon good authority. But what was the nature of the office as held by the
saint? As far as Dominic was concerned, it is argued by his friends that the office "was limited
to the reconciliation of heretics and had nothing to do with their punishment." It is also
claimed that while Dominic did impose penances, in some cases public flagellation, no evidence
can be produced showing that he ever delivered one heretic to the flames. Those who were burned
were condemned by secular courts, and on the ground that they were not only heretics but enemies
of the public peace and perpetrators of enormous crimes.

But while it may not be proved that Dominic himself passed the sentence of death or applied
the torch to the faggots with his own hand, he is by no means absolved from all complicity
in those frightful slaughters, or from all responsibility for the subsequent establishment
of the Holy Inquisition. The principles governing the Inquisition were practically those upon
which Dominic proceeded; the germs of the later atrocities are to be found in his aims and
methods. By what a narrow margin does Dominic escape the charge of cruelty when it is boasted
"that he resolutely insisted on no sentence being carried out until all means had been tried
by which the conversion of a prisoner could be effected." Another statement also contains an
inkling of a significant fact, namely, that secular judges and princes were constantly under
the influence of the monks and other ecclesiastical persons, who incited them to wage war,
and to massacre, in the Albigensian war as in other crusades against heresy. No word from Dominic
can be produced indicating that he remonstrated with the pope, or that he tried to stop the
crusade. In a few instances he seems to have interceded with the crazed soldiery for the lives
of women and children. But he did not oppose the bloody crusade itself. He was constantly either
with the army or following in its wake. He often sat on the bench at the trial of dissenters.
He remained the life-long friend of Simon de Montfort, the cruel agent of the papacy, and he
blessed the marriage of his sons and baptized his daughter. Special courts for trying heretics
were established, previous to the more complete organization of the Inquisition, and in these
he held a commission.

The Holy Office of the Inquisition was made a permanent tribunal by Gregory IX., in 1233, twelve
years after the death of Dominic, and curiously enough, in the same year in which he was canonized.
The Catholic Bollandists claim that although the title of Inquisitor was of later date than
Dominic, yet the office was in existence, and that the splendor of the Holy Inquisition owes
its beginning to that saint. Certain it is that the administration of the Inquisition was mainly
in the hands of Dominican monks.

In view of all these facts, Professor Allen is justified in his conclusions respecting Dominic
and his share in the persecution of heretics: "Whatever his own sweet and heavenly spirit according
to Catholic eulogists, his name is a synonym of bleak and intolerant fanaticism. It is fatally
associated with the blackest horrors of the crusade against the Albigenses, as well as with
the infernal skill and deadly machinery of the Inquisition."

In 1214, Dominic established himself, with six followers, in the house of Peter Cellani, a
rich resident of Toulouse. Eleven years of active and public life had passed since the Subprior
of Osma had forsaken the quietude of the monastery. He now resumed his life of retirement and
subjected himself and his companions to the monastic rules of prayer and penance. But the restless
spirit of the man could not long remain content with the seclusion and inactivity of a monk's
life. The scheme of establishing an order of Preaching Friars began to assume definite shape
in his mind. He dreamed of seven stars enlightening the world, which represented himself and
his six friends. The final result of his deliberations was the organization of his order, and
the appearance of Dominic in the city of Rome, in 1215, to secure the approval of the pope,
Innocent III. Although some describe his reception as "most cordial and flattering," yet it
required supernatural interference to induce the pope to grant even his approval of the new
order. It was not formally confirmed until 1216 by Honorius III.

Dominic now made his headquarters at Rome, although he traveled extensively in the interests
of his growing brotherhood of monks. He was made Master of the Sacred Palace, an important
official post, including among its functions the censorship of the press. It has ever since
been occupied by members of the Dominican order.

Throughout his life Dominic is said to have zealously practiced rigorous self-denial. He wore
a hair shirt, and an iron chain around his loins, which he never laid aside, even in sleep.
He abstained from meat and observed stated fasts and periods of silence. He selected the worst
accommodations and the meanest clothes, and never allowed himself the luxury of a bed. When
traveling, he beguiled the journey with spiritual instruction and prayers. As soon as he passed
the limits of towns and villages, he took off his shoes, and, however sharp the stones or thorns,
he trudged on his way barefooted. Rain and other discomforts elicited from his lips nothing
but praises to God.

Death came at the age of fifty-one and found him exhausted with the austerities and labors
of his eventful career. He had reached the convent of St. Nicholas, at Bologna, weary and sick
with a fever. He refused the repose of a bed and bade the monks lay him on some sacking stretched
upon the ground. The brief time that remained to him was spent in exhorting his followers to
have charity, to guard their humility, and to make their treasure out of poverty. Lying in
ashes upon the floor he passed away at noon, on the sixth of August, 1221. He was canonized
by Gregory IX., in 1234.

The Dominican Orders

The origin of the Order of the Preaching Friars has already been described. It is not necessary
to dwell upon the constitution of this order, because in all essential respects it was like
that of the Franciscans. The order is ruled by a general and is divided into provinces, governed
by provincials. The head of each house is called a prior. Dominic adopted the rules laid down
by St. Augustine, because the pope ordered him to follow some one of the older monastic codes,
but he also added regulations of his own.

Soon after the founding of the order, bands of monks were sent out to Paris, to Rome, to Spain
and to England, for the purpose of planting colonies in the chief seats of learning. The order
produced many eminent scholars, some of whom were Thomas Aquinas, Albertus Magnus, Echard,
Tauler and Savonarola.

As among the Franciscans, there was also an Order of Nuns, founded in 1206, and a Third Order,
called the Militia of Jesus Christ, which was organized in 1218.

The Success of the Mendicant Orders

In 1215, Innocent III. being pope, the Lateran council passed the following law: "Whereas the
excessive diversity of these [monastic] institutions begets confusion, no new foundations of
this sort must be formed for the future; but whoever wishes to become a monk must attach himself
to some of the already existing rules." This same pope approved the two Mendicant orders, urging
them, it is true, to unite themselves to one of the older orders; but, nevertheless, they became
distinct organizations, eclipsing all previous societies in their achievements. The reason
for this disregard of the Lateran decree is doubtless to be found in the alarming condition
of religious affairs at that time, and in the hope held out to Rome by the Mendicants, of reforming
the monasteries and crushing the heretics.

The failure of the numerous and varied efforts to reform the monastic institution and the danger
to the church arising from the unwonted stress laid upon poverty by different schismatic religious
societies, necessitated the adoption of radical measures by the church to preserve its influence.
At this juncture the Mendicant friars appeared. The conditions demanded a modification of the
monastic principle which had hitherto exalted a life of retirement. Seclusion in the cloister
was no longer possible in the view of the remarkable changes in religious thought and practice.

Innocent III. was wise enough to perceive the immediate utility of the new societies based
upon claims to extraordinary humility and poverty. The Mendicant orders were, in themselves,
not only a rebuke to the luxurious indolence and shameful laxity of the older orders, but when
sanctioned by the church, the existence of the new societies attested Rome's desire to maintain
the highest and the purest standards of monastic life. Hence, the Preaching Friars were permitted
to reproach the clergy and the monks for their vices and corruptions.

"The effect of such a band of missionaries," says John Stuart Mill, "must have been great in
rousing and feeding dormant devotional feelings. They were not less influential in regulating
those feelings, and turning into the established Catholic channels those vagaries of private
enthusiasm which might well endanger the church, since they already threatened society itself."

Two novel monastic features, therefore, now appear for the first time: 1. The substitution
of itineracy for the seclusion of the cloister; and 2. The abolition of endowments.

