"A trade for my son! My son a working man! What are you thinking of, sir?" Madam, my thoughts
are wiser than yours; you want to make him fit for nothing but a lord, a marquis, or a prince;
and some day he may be less than nothing. I want to give him a rank which he cannot lose, a
rank which will always do him honour; I want to raise him to the status of a man, and, whatever
you may say, he will have fewer equals in that rank than in your own.

The letter killeth, the spirit giveth life. Learning a trade matters less than overcoming the
prejudices he despises. You will never be reduced to earning your livelihood; so much the worse
for you. No matter; work for honour, not for need: stoop to the position of a working man,
to rise above your own. To conquer Fortune and everything else, begin by independence. To rule
through public opinion, begin by ruling over it.

Remember I demand no talent, only a trade, a genuine trade, a mere mechanical art, in which
the hands work harder than the head, a trade which does not lead to fortune but makes you independent
of her. In households far removed from all danger of want I have known fathers carry prudence
to such a point as to provide their children not only with ordinary teaching but with knowledge
by means of which they could get a living if anything happened. These far-sighted parents thought
they were doing a great thing. It is nothing, for the resources they fancy they have secured
depend on that very fortune of which they would make their children independent; so that unless
they found themselves in circumstances fitted for the display of their talents, they would
die of hunger as if they had none.

As soon as it is a question of influence and intrigue you may as well use these means to keep
yourself in plenty, as to acquire, in the depths of poverty, the means of returning to your
former position. If you cultivate the arts which depend on the artist's reputation, if you
fit yourself for posts which are only obtained by favour, how will that help you when, rightly
disgusted with the world, you scorn the steps by which you must climb. You have studied politics
and state-craft, so far so good; but how will you use this knowledge, if you cannot gain the
ear of the ministers, the favourites, or the officials? if you have not the secret of winning
their favour, if they fail to find you a rogue to their taste? You are an architect or a painter;
well and good; but your talents must be displayed. Do you suppose you can exhibit in the salon
without further ado? That is not the way to set about it. Lay aside the rule and the pencil,
take a cab and drive from door to door; there is the road to fame. Now you must know that the
doors of the great are guarded by porters and flunkeys, who only understand one language, and
their ears are in their palms. If you wish to teach what you have learned, geography, mathematics,
languages, music, drawing, even to find pupils, you must have friends who will sing your praises.
Learning, remember, gains more credit than skill, and with no trade but your own none will
believe in your skill. See how little you can depend on these fine "Resources," and how many
other resources are required before you can use what you have got. And what will become of
you in your degradation? Misfortune will make you worse rather than better. More than ever
the sport of public opinion, how will you rise above the prejudices on which your fate depends?
How will you despise the vices and the baseness from which you get your living? You were dependent
on wealth, now you are dependent on the wealthy; you are still a slave and a poor man into
the bargain. Poverty without freedom, can a man sink lower than this!

But if instead of this recondite learning adapted to feed the mind, not the body, you have
recourse, at need, to your hands and your handiwork, there is no call for deceit, your trade
is ready when required. Honour and honesty will not stand in the way of your living. You need
no longer cringe and lie to the great, nor creep and crawl before rogues, a despicable flatterer
of both, a borrower or a thief, for there is little to choose between them when you are penniless.
Other people's opinions are no concern of yours, you need not pay court to any one, there is
no fool to flatter, no flunkey to bribe, no woman to win over. Let rogues conduct the affairs
of state; in your lowly rank you can still be an honest man and yet get a living. You walk
into the first workshop of your trade. "Master, I want work." "Comrade, take your place and
work." Before dinner-time you have earned your dinner. If you are sober and industrious, before
the week is out you will have earned your keep for another week; you will have lived in freedom,
health, truth, industry, and righteousness. Time is not wasted when it brings these returns.

Emile shall learn a trade. "An honest trade, at least," you say. What do you mean by honest?
Is not every useful trade honest? I would not make an embroiderer, a gilder, a polisher of
him, like Locke's young gentleman. Neither would I make him a musician, an actor, or an author.[Footnote:
You are an author yourself, you will reply. Yes, for my sins; and my ill deeds, which I think
I have fully expiated, are no reason why others should be like me. I do not write to excuse
my faults, but to prevent my readers from copying them.] With the exception of these and others
like them, let him choose his own trade, I do not mean to interfere with his choice. I would
rather have him a shoemaker than a poet, I would rather he paved streets than painted flowers
on china. "But," you will say, "policemen, spies, and hangmen are useful people." There would
be no use for them if it were not for the government. But let that pass. I was wrong. It is
not enough to choose an honest trade, it must be a trade which does not develop detestable
qualities in the mind, qualities incompatible with humanity. To return to our original expression,
"Let us choose an honest trade," but let us remember there can be no honesty without usefulness.

A famous writer of this century, whose books are full of great schemes and narrow views, was
under a vow, like the other priests of his communion, not to take a wife. Finding himself more
scrupulous than others with regard to his neighbour's wife, he decided, so they say, to employ
pretty servants, and so did his best to repair the wrong done to the race by his rash promise.
He thought it the duty of a citizen to breed children for the state, and he made his children
artisans. As soon as they were old enough they were taught whatever trade they chose; only
idle or useless trades were excluded, such as that of the wigmaker who is never necessary,
and may any day cease to be required, so long as nature does not get tired of providing us
with hair.

This spirit shall guide our choice of trade for Emile, or rather, not our choice but his; for
the maxims he has imbibed make him despise useless things, and he will never be content to
waste his time on vain labours; his trade must be of use to Robinson on his island.

When we review with the child the productions of art and nature, when we stimulate his curiosity
and follow its lead, we have great opportunities of studying his tastes and inclinations, and
perceiving the first spark of genius, if he has any decided talent in any direction. You must,
however, be on your guard against the common error which mistakes the effects of environment
for the ardour of genius, or imagines there is a decided bent towards any one of the arts,
when there is nothing more than that spirit of emulation, common to men and monkeys, which
impels them instinctively to do what they see others doing, without knowing why.  The world
is full of artisans, and still fuller of artists, who have no native gift for their calling,
into which they were driven in early childhood, either through the conventional ideas of other
people, or because those about them were deceived by an appearance of zeal, which would have
led them to take to any other art they saw practised. One hears a drum and fancies he is a
general; another sees a building and wants to be an architect. Every one is drawn towards the
trade he sees before him if he thinks it is held in honour.

I once knew a footman who watched his master drawing and painting and took it into his head
to become a designer and artist. He seized a pencil which he only abandoned for a paint-brush,
to which he stuck for the rest of his days. Without teaching or rules of art he began to draw
everything he saw. Three whole years were devoted to these daubs, from which nothing but his
duties could stir him, nor was he discouraged by the small progress resulting from his very
mediocre talents. I have seen him spend the whole of a broiling summer in a little ante-room
towards the south, a room where one was suffocated merely passing through it; there he was,
seated or rather nailed all day to his chair, before a globe, drawing it again and again and
yet again, with invincible obstinacy till he had reproduced the rounded surface to his own
satisfaction. At last with his master's help and under the guidance of an artist he got so
far as to abandon his livery and live by his brush. Perseverance does instead of talent up
to a certain point; he got so far, but no further. This honest lad's perseverance and ambition
are praiseworthy; he will always be respected for his industry and steadfastness of purpose,
but his paintings will always be third-rate. Who would not have been deceived by his zeal and
taken it for real talent! There is all the difference in the world between a liking and an
aptitude. To make sure of real genius or real taste in a child calls for more accurate observations
than is generally suspected, for the child displays his wishes not his capacity, and we judge
by the former instead of considering the latter. I wish some trustworthy person would give
us a treatise on the art of child-study. This art is well worth studying, but neither parents
nor teachers have mastered its elements.

Perhaps we are laying too much stress on the choice of a trade; as it is a manual occupation,
Emile's choice is no great matter, and his apprenticeship is more than half accomplished already,
through the exercises which have hitherto occupied him. What would you have him do? He is ready
for anything. He can handle the spade and hoe, he can use the lathe, hammer, plane, or file;
he is already familiar with these tools which are common to many trades. He only needs to acquire
sufficient skill in the use of any one of them to rival the speed, the familiarity, and the
diligence of good workmen, and he will have a great advantage over them in suppleness of body
and limb, so that he can easily take any position and can continue any kind of movements without
effort. Moreover his senses are acute and well-practised, he knows the principles of the various
trades; to work like a master of his craft he only needs experience, and experience comes with
practice. To which of these trades which are open to us will he give sufficient time to make
himself master of it? That is the whole question.

