It was no easy task the City had undertaken. Great difficulty was experienced in getting the
companies to pay up their quota of the £20,000 to be raised for the purpose of the plantation.
The wardens of the Mercers, the Clothworkers and other companies were committed to prison by
order of the Court of Aldermen for refusing or failing to pay the sums at which their respective
companies had been assessed.(115) The masters or wardens of the companies were not so much
to blame as the individual members of the companies who refused to pay. Thus, a sum of £200
due from Sir John Spencer, the rich Clothworker, remained unpaid at his death. It was eventually
paid by his son-in-law, Lord Compton, after much solicitation.(116) Even when the money was
got in there was a difficulty in forwarding it to its destination, so infested was the Irish
coast with pirates who lay in wait for the money sent by the City for the works at Coleraine.(117)

(M45)

Early in the following year (31 Jan., 1611) the livery companies were called upon to certify
to the Irish Society, within one week, whether or no they were willing to accept an allotment
of the Irish estate proportionate to the money by them advanced, and to cultivate and plant
the same at their own cost and charges, according to the "printed book" of the plantation,
or leave the letting and disposing thereof to the governor and committees. They were warned
that, in any case, they would still have to contribute towards the charge of building houses
and fortifications and freeing of tithes.(118) In response to the mayor’s precept eight of
the principal companies of the city, viz., the Mercers, Grocers, Drapers, Fishmongers, Goldsmiths,
Salters, Ironmongers and Vintners, and ten of the inferior companies, viz., the Dyers, Pewterers,
Founders, Whitebakers, Broderers, Armourers, Tilers and Bricklayers, Blacksmiths, Weavers and
Woodmongers, signified their willingness to accept a proportionate part of the land (27 Feb.).
The remainder of the companies preferred to leave the lands alone, but they were allowed to
come in afterwards if they saw reason to change their mind.(119)

(M46)

By July (1611) nearly the whole of the £20,000 had been expended. The Common Council thereupon
resolved that a further sum of £10,000 should be levied on the companies at the same rate as
the last two payments. A day was appointed for the companies to send in a written notice whether
they agreed to contribute to this fresh sum or were ready to forfeit the money they had already
subscribed and lose all their right in the plantation.(120). £5,000 was to be ready by the
10th August. The remainder was not demanded until July, 1612.(121)

(M47)

Hitherto the agreement between the lords of the council and the citizens of London had been
carried out by one side only. The City had found the money wherewith to carry out the work
of the plantation, but as yet not an acre of land had been assigned. It is not surprising,
therefore, that when the Grocers’ Company were called upon to contribute their quota to the
£5,000 demanded in July, 1612, they desired the lord mayor not to press the matter until the
assurance of the lands and other hereditaments for which money had been formerly disbursed
should have been obtained from his majesty.(122) At length, on the 29th March, 1613, the Irish
Society received its charter of incorporation.

(M48)

Notwithstanding the great difficulty experienced in getting in the last £5,000—as much as £3,667
10s. being still outstanding in October, 1612(123)—the Common Council found itself under the
unpleasant necessity of asking the companies for another £10,000 within a few weeks of the
incorporation of the Irish Society. Not only had the whole of the £30,000 formerly subscribed
been expended, but the Irish Society had borrowed £3,000 from the Chamber of London.(124) The
money was to be raised by the end of May.

(M49)

James had already begun to show impatience—even before the granting of the charter of incorporation
to the Irish Society—at the little progress made in the work of the plantation. At the close
of the last year (21 Dec., 1612) he had himself written to Sir Arthur Chichester directing
him to send home an account of what the Londoners had done; for, notwithstanding their pretence
of great expenditure, there was, so he was informed, little outward show for it.(125) Fault
was found with them, not only for failing to build houses according to the articles of agreement,
but for their humane treatment of the "mere Irish," instead of driving them forth to perish
in the narrow districts set apart for them.(126)

(M50)

On Midsummer-day (1613) Sir Henry Montague, the Recorder, and Sir William Cockaine, the governor
of the Irish Society, signified to the Common Council that it was the king’s wish that the
walls and fortifications of Derry should be at once taken in hand. The court agreed to lose
no time in carrying out the king’s wishes, and further resolved to despatch "some great and
worthy magistrate," as well as "some commoner of special countenance and credit," to take an
exact notice, view and account of the whole work of the plantation, and of all works done and
to be done, and, in a word, to do all that they deemed necessary for the good of the plantation.
The choice of the court fell upon Alderman George Smithes and Matthias Springham, a Merchant
Taylor.(127)

(M51)

These two proceeded to Ireland, and, having viewed the plantation, sent home from Dublin a
detailed report of all they had seen and done.(128) The report was submitted to the Common
Council on the 8th November (1613). Among other things they had taken great pains to make an
equal division of the land as far as was possible into twelve parts, with the view of distributing
it among the livery companies as proposed, and a "plott" of the division was laid before the
court. But they were of opinion that the city of Londonderry and its land of 4,000 acres, and
the town of Coleraine with its 3,000 acres, its ferries and fisheries, could not be conveniently
divided, but the rents and profits of them might be divided among the several companies. As
to the fortification of Derry, the commissioners had consulted ten military experts on the
matter and plans had been drafted; but it was necessary to gather material before the wall
could be commenced, and this the commissioners recommended should be taken in hand at once.

(M52)

On the 17th December lots were publicly drawn to decide the particular lands which each of
the twelve principal companies, combined with several of the inferior companies in such a way
as to make their total contributions to amount, as far as might be, to one-twelth of the whole
sum (£40,000) contributed, should hold.(129) The companies at once took possession of their
property so far as they could do so; but livery of seisin was not and could not be made to
them until James had granted (30 Sep., 1615), both to the Irish Society and to the companies,
a licence in mortmain. This licence was expressly granted "to the end that they might be the
better encouraged and enabled to proceed and finish the same plantation, and in future times
reap some gains and benefits of their great travails and expenses bestowed therein."(130) It
may be inferred from this that James had little expectation that the undertakers would reap
much gain or profit from their enterprise notwithstanding former professions. For some years
to come there was no gain, little or great. No sooner had the allotment of land to the companies
taken place than they were called upon to raise a further sum of £5,000,(131) and at the end
of another twelve months a further sum of £7,500, making in all a sum total of £52,500 which
they had subscribed towards the plantation.(132) It was not until 1623 that the profits of
the plantation began to exceed the costs and the Irish Society was in a position to pay a dividend.(133)

(M53) (M54)

In years gone by, when some of the companies sold their Irish estate, there was no question
as to their power of alienation or their absolute right to the proceeds of the sale, but of
late years a cry has been raised that the companies held their estates in a fiduciary capacity,
and that they could not legally alienate their Irish property without accounting for the proceeds
of the sale as public trustees. It had got abroad that those companies who had not already
parted with their Irish estates—as the Haberdashers had done as far back as the year 1675,
and the Merchant Taylors, the Goldsmiths and the Vintners, between the years 1728 and 1737—were
meditating a sale. In response to the cry thus raised a select Parliamentary Committee was
appointed to enquire "as to the Terms of the Charters or other Instruments by which their Estates
in Ireland were granted to the Irish Society and to the London companies, and as to the Trusts
and Obligations (if any) attaching to the Ownership of such Estates." Any trust or obligation
in connection with the tenure of these estates would naturally be comprised within the four
corners of the charters and instruments mentioned in the order of reference just cited, but
these the committee practically ignored, on the ground that the task of pronouncing with decisive
authority upon their legal construction could only be performed by a judicial tribunal.(134)
We have it, however, on the authority of so sound a lawyer as the late Sir George Jessel, that
the companies are ordinary owners of their Irish estates in fee simple, subject only to the
reservations expressly contained in the conveyance to them.(135)

CHAPTER XX.

(M55)

Contemporaneously with the plantation of Ulster, another and more distant enterprise of somewhat
similar character was being carried out in America; and to this, as to every great public undertaking,
the citizens of London must need be called to lend their assistance. A company formed in 1606,
and composed, in part at least, of London merchants, the object of which was the colonisation
of Virginia, had proved a failure after a hopeless struggle for three years. It was therefore
determined to reconstruct the company on a different basis and to make an entirely fresh start.

(M56)

In the spring of 1609 the company wrote to Sir Humphrey Weld,(136) then mayor of London, for
assistance in financing the undertaking, urging him at the same time to diminish the risk of
pestilence and famine in the city by removing the surplus population to Virginia. For the sake
of convenience they purposed to issue no bills of adventure for less than £12 10s., but if
his lordship were to make any "ceasement" (assessment) or raise subscriptions from the best
disposed and most able of the companies, the council and company of the plantation would be
willing to give bills of adventure to the masters and wardens for the general use and behoof
of each company, or in the case of subscription by the wards to the alderman and deputy of
each ward for the benefit of the ward. Should the emigrants "demaund what may be theire present
mayntenaunce, what maye be theire future hopes?" they might be told that the company was for
the present prepared to offer them "meate, drinke and clothing, with an howse, orchard and
garden for the meanest family, and a possession of lands to them and their posterity." Any
alderman of the city subscribing £50 would be reckoned as an original member of the council
of the company, and take equal share of the profits with the rest; their deputies, too, would
be admitted to the same privileges on payment of half that sum.

(M57)

In response to a precept no less than fifty-six companies agreed to take ventures in the plantation.
The Grocers subscribed the sum of £487 10s., or more than double the amount subscribed by any
other company. The Mercers, the Goldsmiths and the Merchant Taylors contributed respectively
the next highest amount, viz., £200; whilst the Drapers and Fishmongers subscribed severally
£150, the Stationers £125, the Clothworkers £100, and the Salters £50. In addition to these
contributions made by the companies in their corporate capacity other sums were ventured by
individual members.(137) Bills of adventure were thereupon given to the several companies for
the money subscribed, entitling them to have rateably "theire full parte of all such lands,
tenements and hereditaments" as should from time to time be recovered, planted and inhabited,
as also "of all such mines and minerals of gould, silver and other metals or treasure, pearles,
precious stones, or any kind of wares or marchaundizes, comodities or profitts whatsoever,"
as should be obtained or gotten in the voyage.(138)

(M58)

With the assistance thus afforded by the citizens of London the Virginia Company had no difficulty
in obtaining another charter from the Crown (23 May, 1609). Among the adventurers to whom the
charter was granted, and who embraced representatives of every rank, profession and occupation,
we find Humphrey Weld, the mayor, whose name immediately follows those of the peers of the
realm who shared in the undertaking, and Nicholas Ferrar, skinner, who died in 1620, and gave
by will "£300 to the college in Virginia, to be paid when there shall be ten of the infidels’
children placed in it, and in the meantime twenty-four pounds by the yeare to be disbursed
unto three discreete and godly men in the colonie, which shall honestly bring up three of the
infidels’ children in Christian religion and some good course to live by."(139)

(M59)

In the meantime (15 May) seven vessels with emigrants on board had set sail from Woolwich.
After frequent delays on the south coast of England they crossed the Atlantic and reached their
destination on the 11th August. Yellow fever had unfortunately broken out on board ship during
the long voyage, and this, together with the plague, which is generally believed to have been
conveyed to Virginia by the fleet, committed great havoc among the early emigrants.(140)

(M60)

It was not long before more money was wanted, and again application was made to the livery
companies. The Mercers declined to make any further advance;(141) but with the assistance of
the other companies the sum of £5,000 was raised, which was afterwards increased to £18,000.(142)
Nevertheless, in spite of every exertion, the company was in the autumn of 1611 on the very
verge of ruin, and something had to be done to prevent its utter collapse. It was accordingly
again re-constructed, its domains were made to comprise the Bermudas, or Somers Islands, and
a third charter granted (12 March, 1612), in which a number of citizens are named as having
become adventurers since the last letters patent.(143)

(M61)

A special feature of the charter was the authorisation of one or more lottery or lotteries
to be held for the benefit of the company,(144) by virtue of which a lottery was soon afterwards
opened in London. The chief prize fell to one Thomas Sharplys, or Sharplisse, a tailor of London,
who won "four thousand crowns in fair plate."(145) The lucky winner used the same motto on
this occasion as was used by the Merchant Taylors’ Company in their venture in the lottery
of 1569.(146) The City’s records are unaccountably silent on the matter of this lottery, but
we learn from other sources that the Grocers’ Company adventured the sum of £62 10s. of their
common goods and drew a prize of £13 10s. An offer being made to them to accept the prize subject
to a rebate of £10, or in lieu thereof "a faire rounde salt with a cover of silver all gilt,"
weighing over 44 ozs. at 6s. 7d. per oz., amounting to the sum of £14 19s. 1d., the company
resolved to accept the salt, "both in respect it would not be so much losse to the company
... and alsoe in regard this company wants salts." The balance of £1 9s. was ordered to be
paid out of the common goods of the company.(147) Not only the companies but several of the
city parishes had ventures in a small way in the lottery. Thus the vestry of St. Mary Colechurch
agreed (7 June) to adventure the sum of £6 of the church stock, whereby the church was the
gainer of "twoe spones, price twenty shillinge."(148) The parish of St. Mary Woolchurch adventured
a less sum, taking only fifty lots at a shilling apiece, in return for which it got a prize
of ten shillings.(149) That the lottery was not taken up in the way it was hoped it would be
is shown by the fact that just before the drawing—which took place in a house at the west end
of St. Paul’s, and lasted from the 29th June till the 20th July—no less than 60,000 blanks
were taken out, in order to increase the number of chances in favour of the adventurers.(150)

(M62)

Two years later (1614) another lottery for the same purpose was set on foot. On the 1st April
the lords of the council addressed a circular letter to the city companies,(151) enclosing
a copy of a pamphlet by Sir Thomas Smith, entitled "A declaration of the present estate of
the English in Virginia, with the final resolucon of the Great Lotterye intended for their
supply," and exhorting them to do their best to make the lottery a success. The object is there
described as a "worthy and Christian enterprise, full of honour and profitt to His Majestie
and the whole realme." A copy of this letter was forwarded to the several companies through
Sir Thomas Middleton, the mayor,(152) who, as we have already said, was himself a member of
the Council of the Virginia Company in 1609. The lotteries, however, found but little favour
with the companies, who were actively engaged at the time in managing their recently acquired
Irish estates, and had but little money to spare. The Merchant Taylors’ Company contented themselves
with voting only £50 out of their common stock for the lottery, leaving it to individual members
to venture further sums on their own account as each might think fit.(153) The Grocers’ Company,
of which Middleton was a member, voted nothing out of their common stock, but each member was
exhorted "for the general advancement of Christianity and good of the commonwealth," to write
with his own hands how much he was willing to venture. This was accordingly done (15 April),
the lord mayor himself setting the example; but as to the result the company’s records fail
to give any information.(154)

(M63)

The prospects of the Virginia Company were seriously imperilled by an ill-advised speech made
in the House of Commons by the lord mayor inveighing against the importation of tobacco. The
Company was already in disgrace with the House, through the indiscretion of Counsel employed
to prosecute a petition on its behalf, and all the members of the Company who held seats in
the House were desired to withdraw until it should be decided what action should be taken in
the matter. Eventually peace was restored by the offending Counsel coming to the Bar of the
House and making a humble submission.(155)

(M64)

In 1618 a scheme was set on foot for taking up vagrant boys and girls that lay begging in the
streets of the city, having neither home nor friends, and transporting them to Virginia to
be there industriously employed. The scheme came before the Court of Common Council on the
31st July in the form of a petition from a number of citizens. A committee was at once appointed
to consider the matter, and on the 24th September they brought in their report.(156) The Virginia
Company had agreed to take 100 boys and girls between the ages of eight and sixteen, and to
educate and bring them up at the company’s charge. The company were prepared, moreover, to
give each boy and girl fifty acres of land, to each boy as soon as he was twenty-four years
of age, and to each girl at the age of twenty-one or her marriage, whichever should first happen.
The charge of fitting out and transporting that number was estimated at £500, which sum the
court agreed should be levied on the inhabitants of the city rateably according as each was
assessed towards the last poor rate. The young emigrants were soon afterwards shipped to their
new home,(157) and so successfully did the undertaking turn out that in little over a year
another application was made to the Common Council (18 Dec., 1619) for another batch of 100
children for shipment to the colony in the following spring.(158) It was desired that the new
emigrants should be twelve years old and upwards, with an allowance of £3 apiece for their
transportation and 40s. apiece for their apparel, "as was formerly graunted." The boys would
be put out as apprentices until the age of twenty-one, and the girls likewise until the same
age or marriage, after which they would be placed as tenants on the public lands, and be furnished
with houses, stock of corn and cattle to begin with, and afterwards enjoy the moiety of all
increase and profit. The Common Council being desirous of forwarding "soe worthy and pious
a worke" as the plantation, accepted the company’s proposal, and directed that a sum of £500
necessary for the purpose should be levied as on the previous occasion.

(M65)

Some hitch, however, appears to have occurred in connection with the shipment of this second
consignment of children. The City and the Virginia Company had fallen out for some reason or
other. In a letter written about this time to the lord mayor(159) the company express regret
that differences should have arisen between the city and themselves. They assure his lordship
that there was no real foundation for these differences, seeing that they had now ratified
all, and more than all than had been previously offered and accepted. Everything had been done
that was necessary for the shipment of the children. The City had collected the requisite funds
and the children had been provided, whilst the company on its part had provided a fair ship,
and the Privy Council had "at the city’s desire" granted its warrant.(160) The company therefore
trusted that the lord mayor and aldermen would proceed to the speedy ending of differences.

(M66)

The number of emigrants to Virginia was swelled by the transportation of a number of idle fellows
who made it their business to follow the king and his court wherever they might happen to be.
Early in 1619, when the king was at Newmarket, he took occasion to write to Sir Thomas Smith
complaining of the annoyance and desired that they might be sent to Virginia at the next opportunity.(161)
Immediately on the receipt of this letter Sir Thomas Smith wrote to Sir Sebastian Hervey, the
mayor, forwarding at the same time the king’s letter, and asking that the batch of idle court
loafers which had already been despatched from Newmarket to London, as well as those to follow,
might be lodged for a time in Bridewell, and there set to work until such time as there should
be a vessel starting for the colony.(162)

(M67)

The Virginia colony—the first of the free colonies of England—soon became firmly established,
and the City of London can claim to have had no small share in the work of its establishment.
To the enterprising spirit shown by the citizens in their efforts to forward the interests
of the colony no better testimony is wanted than a thanksgiving sermon(163) preached (18 April,
1622) in the church of St. Mary-le-Bow by Patrick Copland, chaplain to the Virginia Company,
in commemoration of the safe arrival of a fleet of nine ships at the close of the previous
year. The City of London, the preacher said, had on two occasions sent over 100 persons to
Virginia, and the present lord mayor and his brethren the aldermen intended to pursue the same
course as previous mayors. "Your cittie," he continued, "aboundeth in people (and long may
it doe so); the plantation in Virginia is capable enough to receive them. O, take course to
ease your cittie, and to provide well for your people, by sending them over thither, that both
they of that colony there and they of your owne cittie here may live to bless your prudent
and provident government over them.... Right Worshipfull, I beseech you ponder (as I know you
doe) the forlorne estate of many of the best members of your citty, and helpe them, O helpe
them out of their misery; what you bestow uppon them in their transportation to Virginia they
will repay it at present with their prayers, and when they are able with their purses."(164)

A few months after this sermon had been delivered tidings reached England of a calamity more
disastrous than any that had yet befallen the colony. A treacherous attack had been made upon
the white men by the Indians, which was only just saved by timely notice from becoming a general
massacre. As it was, nearly 350 of the settlers were killed. The Common Council lost no time
in testifying its sympathy with the colony in the great loss it had sustained, and voted (19
July) a third sum of £500 towards the transportation of 100 fresh colonists.(165)

(M68)

Ever since his accession to the throne of England the financial condition of James had been
going from bad to worse. Besides resorting to antiquated feudal exactions,(166) he took to
levying impositions on articles of commerce. But even these failed to make up the deficiency
created in his exchequer by his wanton extravagance, and in 1610 he was obliged to apply to
parliament. An attempt to make a composition with the king for feudal dues and to restrict
his claim to levy impositions failed, and parliament was hastily dissolved.(167)

(M69)

In the meanwhile James had applied to the City (April, 1610) for a loan of £100,000. He professed
to prefer borrowing the money from the citizens to raising it by privy seals from his subjects
generally, and he promised interest at the rate of ten per cent. and security on the customs.
The aldermen consented to raise the money "out of aboundance of love ... but not of aboundance
of riches or meanes." They and the Recorder divided themselves into nine several companies
or divisions, each bound to furnish one-ninth of the whole loan. The king gave his own bond
in £150,000 besides bonds of the farmer of the customs as security, and the aldermen set to
work to raise the money in as "secret and discreet manner" as they could.(168) The loan did
not go far towards discharging the king’s liabilities, or those of the late queen, whose debts
James had undertaken to repay. Before the end of the year (1610) certain wealthy merchants
of the city were summoned to Whitehall to discuss the state of affairs. The king again wanted
money, but inasmuch as he confessed himself unable to do more than pay the interest on former
loans, leaving the principal to be discharged at some future time, they refused to make any
further advances, consenting only not to press for the repayment of outstanding debts.(169)
Pursuant to this agreement the citizens, in April, 1611, when the repayment of the loan of
£100,000 became due, granted the king another year’s respite.(170) A similar concession was
made in 1612;(171) and in 1613 the loan was paid off.(172)

(M70)

The king had a right to look for consideration from the city, for in 1608 he had not only confirmed
the liberties and franchises of the citizens by charter, but he had extended the civic jurisdiction,
and had created all aldermen who had "passed the chair" Justices of Oyer and Terminer within
the city and its liberties. He had, moreover, allowed them to tax non-freemen and strangers
and to cause them to contribute in like manner as themselves to all talliages, aids and grants
to the king.(173) Two years later—soon after his son Henry had been created Prince of Wales
and the city had done him honour by an aquatic display on the river between Richmond and London(174)
he confirmed (16 June, 1610) the privileges granted to them in 1383 by Richard II with the
sanction of parliament.(175)

(M71)

Before the close of 1611 his pecuniary difficulties increased to such an extent that he was
driven to scatter broadcast "privy seals" or promissory notes for the purpose of raising money.
These were not unfrequently placed in the hands of persons as they came out of church on Sunday
evenings, a proceeding that caused no little scandal.(176)

(M72)

The marriage of his daughter, the Princess Elizabeth, with Frederick, the Elector Palatine,
which was soon to follow, not only involved James in further pecuniary difficulties, but eventually
plunged him into a continental war. Although the marriage articles were signed in May, 1612,
the Elector did not arrive in England until October, just at the time when Sir John Swinnerton
was about to enter on his duties as mayor for the ensuing year. Special precautions were taken
to keep order and guard against accident on lord mayor’s day(177) as soon as it was known that
the Elector would attend, and a pageant, entitled Troja nova triumphans, was written expressly
for the occasion by Thomas Dekker.(178) The Elector afterwards attended the banquet, and paid
a special compliment to the lady mayoress and her suite.(179) The number of nobles invited
was so great that there was scarcely room for the customary representatives from the principal
livery companies, and none at all for members of the lesser companies. The latter were asked
to take their exclusion in no ill part, as it was a sheer matter of necessity.(180) Before
leaving the Elector was presented on behalf of the city with a bason and ewer weighing 234-3/4
ozs., and a "dansk pott chast and cheseld" weighing 513-5/8 ozs., and engraved with the city’s
arms and the words civitas London, the whole costing £262 15s. 10d.(181) There was but one
thing to mar the general gaiety, and that was the illness of the Prince of Wales, whose death
a week later shed a gloom over the whole of England,(182) and caused the marriage of his sister,
by whom he was especially beloved, to be postponed for a time.(183) The ceremony eventually
took place on the 14th February, 1613, amid great pomp and splendour, and in the following
April the youthful bride and bridegroom left England for Holland.

(M73)

It was currently reported that many Papists and Recusants had taken the opportunity afforded
by the recent court festivities to secrete themselves in London, and Swinnerton, who had already
displayed considerable activity in searching for them as soon as he became lord mayor,(184)
was urged to redouble his efforts in that direction by a letter from the Archbishop of Canterbury
a few days before the marriage of the princess took place.(185)

(M74)

The close of the year witnessed a marriage of a very different character, viz., the union of
the king’s favourite, Carr, Earl of Somerset, with Frances Howard, the divorced wife of the
Earl of Essex. Murderess and adulteress as she was, she was received at court with every honour;
but when the king proposed to sup one night in the city, and to bring his whole court with
him (including, of course, the newly-married couple), the lord mayor, Sir Thomas Middleton,
demurred, excusing himself on the ground that his house was too small.(186) This excuse was
of no avail, and the supper took place in Merchant Taylors’ Hall, the earl and countess being
specially invited as well as the entire court. The supper was followed by a masque devised
for the occasion by a namesake of the mayor, Thomas Middleton, the dramatic poet.(187) The
entertainment cost the City nearly £700,(188) besides the sum of £50 which the Court of Aldermen
directed to be laid out in a present of plate to Somerset.(189) In acknowledgment of the gift
the earl presented the mayor and sheriffs with pairs of handsome gloves.(190)

(M75)

Financial difficulties, which a fresh issue of "privy seals" to the aldermen for loans of £200
apiece had done little to alleviate,(191) and which had been aggravated by recent court festivities,
at length drove James to run the risk of summoning another parliament. He had learnt from the
wire-pullers of the day—or "undertakers" as they were then called—that he could depend upon
a majority being returned which would be willing to grant supplies in return for certain concessions.
In this he was deceived. No sooner did constituents discover that pressure was being brought
to bear in favour of court candidates than they used their best efforts to frustrate such a
manifest design to pack parliament. The session was opened on the 5th of April by a speech
from the king, in which he set forth his financial difficulties, which the extraordinary charge
in connection with his daughter’s marriage had helped to increase. He would not bargain for
their money, he said, but would leave it entirely to their love what supplies should be granted.
In token of his own affection towards his subjects he was ready to make certain concessions,
and he entirely disavowed any complicity with the "strange kind of beasts called undertakers."
The new parliament, however, stood out like the last and refused to grant supplies until public
grievances had been considered. The result was that on the 7th June James dissolved what he
had fondly hoped would have proved to be a "parliament of love," but which from its inability
to pass a single measure came to be nick-named, "the addled parliament."(192)

(M76)

At his wit’s end for money, James had recourse to benevolences. The bishops offered him the
value of the best piece of plate in their possession to help him out of his difficulties, and
their example induced many of the nobles to open their purses. Application was again made to
the City for a loan of £100,000.(193) This they declined, but made the king a free gift of
£10,000, one moiety being paid by the City’s Chamber and the other being furnished by the livery
companies.(194)

(M77)

It was now that the City began to resort to the practice of recruiting their Chamber by nominating
and electing as sheriffs those who were likely to prefer paying a fine to serving—a practice
which more especially prevailed during the troublous times of the Stuarts. Nearly a dozen individuals
were elected one after another to the office at Midsummer of this year, and one and all declined.
Some, like Sir Arthur Ingram, had sufficient influence at court to obtain their discharge without
fine, others paid fines varying in amount, which served to fill the City’s exchequer.(195)

(M78)

Another reason, however, is given for so many refusals to serve as sheriff just at this time,
and that was that men declined to serve sheriff with Peter Proby, who had once been a barber.(196)

The shrewd ex-barber soon overcame any feeling of antipathy that may have been entertained
towards him on entering upon municipal life. In 1616 he was sent with Mathias Springham to
manage the city’s Irish estate.(197) In 1622 he was elected mayor and in the following year
was knighted.

(M79)

Hitherto it had not been the custom when orders were given for a general muster and survey
of the armed forces of the realm to include the city’s forces. The city had been for the most
part exempt from such orders, except when the necessities of the times demanded that it should
be otherwise. In 1614 the lords of the council thought fit to include the city in their order
for a general muster, and they wrote (16 Sept.) to the mayor requiring him to cause "a generall
view" to be taken of the city’s forces, and an enrolment made "of such trayned members as in
her late majesty’s time were put into companies by the name of the trayned bands." Vacancies
among the officers and soldiers were to be filled up, armour and weapons repaired, and the
force to be completely equipped and regularly exercised.(198) The letter having been submitted
to the Common Council (21 Sept.), it was agreed to raise at once a force of 6,000 men. A tax
of a fifteenth was voted to meet the necessary expenses, and a committee was appointed to carry
out the resolution of the court.(199) On the following day (22 Sept.) the mayor issued his
precept to the alderman of every ward stating the number of men required from his ward, and
particulars of the kind and quantity of armour his ward was to provide. Appended to the precept
was a schedule of the prices at which certain manufacturers in the city were prepared to sell
the necessary weapons.(200) Jerome Heydon, described as an "iremonger at the lower end of Cheapeside,"
was ready to sell corslets, comprising "brest, backe, gorgett, taces and headpeece," at 15s.;
pikes with steel heads at 2s. 6d.; swords, being Turkey blades, at 7s.; "bastard" muskets at
14s.; great muskets, with rests, at 16s.; a headpiece, lined and stringed, at 2s. 6d., and
a bandaleer for 1s. 6d. Henry White and Don Sany Southwell were prepared to do corslets 6d.
cheaper, and the same with swords, but their swords are described as only "Irish hilts and
belts to them." Their bastard muskets, "with mouldes," could be had for 13s., or 1s. cheaper
than those of Jerome Heydon. The Armourers’ Company were ready to supply corslets at 15s.,
but for the same "with pouldrons" they asked 4s. more. The Cutlers’ Company would furnish "a
very good turky blade and good open hilts" for 6s., thus under-selling the private firms.

(M80)

On the 5th May, 1615, the Common Council ordered another fifteenth to be levied on the inhabitants
of the city "towards the defrayinge of all maner of charges to be disbursed in and about the
trayninge and musteringe of men";(201) and in the following year the trained bands were divided
into four regiments, under the command of Sir Thomas Lowe, Sir Thomas Middleton, Sir John Watts,
and Sir John Swinnerton, and quartered in different parts of the city for the purpose of putting
down riots. For these measures the mayor, Sir John Jolles, and the aldermen received the thanks
of the lords of the council.(202)

(M81)

Yet, notwithstanding the manifest pains taken by civic authorities to carry out the wishes
of the lords of the council, the latter within a few weeks again wrote to the mayor,(203) rating
him soundly for not having made a return of men and arms with which the city was provided,
as previously directed. Their lordships had been informed that the city was altogether unprovided
with arms and could not furnish the full number of trained men with weapons at one and the
same time, and that there was scarce sufficient match and powder in the whole city to serve
for one day’s training. They expressed astonishment that the civic authorities, in whom was
vested the government of the king’s Chamber, should have proved so negligent in a matter so
important, and directed them to set up forthwith a magazine of arms for supplying not only
the inhabitants of the city, but also those of adjacent counties, with military weapons, and
to supply themselves with a store of gunpowder of not less than 100 lasts, by the aid of the
city companies, as had been usual in like cases. A certificate was also to be returned without
delay to their lordships according to previous orders. The matter was referred by the Common
Council to the "committees for martial causes" in the city, with instructions to report thereon
to the Court of Aldermen.

(M82)

After the receipt of this letter considerable activity was shown in the military preparations
of the city. A muster and review were ordered to be held on the 6th August in Finsbury Fields,
and steps were taken to fill up the muster-roll of every captain to its full strength of 300
men.(204)

(M83)

By the spring of the next year (1617) the city authorities had succeeded so far in recovering
the confidence and goodwill of the government as to have a royal commission of lieutenancy
for the city of London granted to the mayor, Sir John Leman, eight of the aldermen and Antony
Benn, the Recorder.(205) The commission was to continue during the king’s pleasure, or until
notice of its determination should have been given by the Privy Council under their hands and
seals.

(M84)

Matters remained on this footing for a year, when the lords of the council gave notice (17
May, 1618) of the commission having been withdrawn, and at the same time directed the Court
of Aldermen to furnish them with a certificate of the number of men enrolled in the trained
bands (such as had long since been ordered but had never yet been sent), and to see that all
previous orders relative to the magazine of arms and the storage of powder were duly executed.
Special directions were given to replace the "calliver" (now become unserviceable) by the musket,
and to provide bullets in addition to powder and match.(206) The letter of the lords was read
at a Common Council held on the 31st July, when committees were appointed to see to the muster
and training of 6,000 men, and to examine what sums of money remained over from the two last
fifteenths levied for similar purposes.(207)

(M85)

That James, like his predecessor on the throne, had the increase of the material prosperity
of his subjects very much at heart there is little doubt. The measures, however, which he took
for increasing that prosperity were not always sound. Among these must be reckoned the withdrawal
of all licences for the exportation of undyed and undressed cloth,(208) the suppression of
the old company of Merchant Adventurers and the formation of a new company. For these measures
the king was not so much to blame as William Cockaine, the city alderman who gave him advice
on the matter. That the advice was bad became soon manifest. The Dutch, who had been the principal
buyers of English undyed cloth, retaliated by setting up looms for themselves, and threatened
to destroy the English cloth trade altogether. The new company, with Cockaine at its head,
proved a complete failure, and the old company was restored.(209)

(M86)

The aldermen of the city continued to be pressed for a loan of £100,000, and after many refusals
they at length consented to advance £30,000; but "what is that"—wrote Chamberlain to Carleton—"among
so many who gape and starve after it?"(210)

(M87)

During the brief career of the new company Cockaine had enjoyed the honour of entertaining
the king at his own house in Broad Street. The cost of the entertainment, which took place
on the 8th June, 1616—including a bason of gold and £1,000 presented to James and another gift
of £500 to Prince Charles—amounted to more than £3,000, and this (we are told) was discharged
by the company, whilst his majesty reserved his thanks for Cockaine alone, and at parting conferred
upon him the honour of knighthood with the civic sword.(211)

(M88)

A few months later (Nov., 1616) the city was the scene of another festive gathering, the occasion
being a supper given at Drapers’ Hall to the recently created Knights of the Bath. That the
wives of city burgesses were looked upon as fair game for the courtier to fly at may be seen
in the works of the dramatists of the day; nor was the merchant’s or tradesman’s daughter averse
to the attention of the court gallant when kept within reasonable bounds, but on this occasion
the exuberant spirits of the knights, after the long ordeal they had recently gone through,
appear to have overcome them, for, we are told, they were so rude and unmannerly and carried
themselves so insolently divers ways, but specially in "putting citizens’ wives to the squeak,"
that the sheriff interfered, whereupon they left the hall in high dudgeon without waiting for
the supper prepared for them.(212)

(M89)

Previous to his departure on a progress to Scotland in the spring of 1617, the king addressed
a letter to the mayor and Common Council of the City asking for a loan of £100,000.(213) The
necessary occasions of his affairs, he said, required just then "the present use of good somes
of money," by way of a loan, and he could think of no better way of supplying himself than
by resorting, as his forefathers had done, "to the love" of his city, and borrowing the money
upon the credit of its common bonds. He reminded them that whenever he had borrowed money the
lenders had always received "royall paiement," and he doubted not that they would now act as
their own registers and records would show that their predecessors had acted on similar occasions.
On the 22nd January this application was read to the Common Council, when, after mature deliberation,
it was unanimously agreed—"without either word or hand to the contrary"—that one or more bonds
should be made in the name of the Mayor and Commonalty and Citizens of London, under their
common seal, for the repayment of principal, together with interest, to those who were willing
to contribute towards the loan, upon such counter security as was mentioned in the king’s letter.
The security there mentioned was to be under the great seal and of such a character as the
city had been accustomed formerly to receive from the king’s predecessors. It appears that
James had a few days before endeavoured to get the citizens to advance the sum of £100,000
on the security of the crown jewels, but this proposal had met with little favour.(214)

(M90)

In March the mayor, John Leman, received the honour of knighthood and was publicly thanked
by the king for the forwardness displayed by the citizens in the loan, although the money had
not at the time been raised.(215) Great difficulty was experienced in raising the money. One
London merchant, John Eldred, whose name frequently occurs in the State Papers in connection
with advances to the king, endeavoured to get the amount of his assessment reduced by £400,(216)
whilst another, William Cater, kept out of the way to avoid contributing to the loan.(217)
In May there was still a deficiency of £20,000, which called forth a reprimand from the lords
of the council. The city authorities had been observed to omit or else to sparingly handle
many of the best citizens who were "nicetest" to be dealt with, and especially intended for
the purpose, and to lay the burden of contribution upon persons of weak and mean estate, or
such as otherwise by their quality and place were not so fit to be called upon for any such
occasion.(218)

(M91)

On his return from Scotland in September the king was met by the mayor and aldermen and a deputation
from the livery companies at Knightsbridge and escorted to Whitehall with the same pomp and
solemnity as had been accustomed to be displayed in attending Queen Elizabeth on her return
from a progress.(219) The mayor presented James with a purse of 500 gold pieces,(220) and the
king conferred the honour of knighthood upon Antony Benn, the Recorder, and Ralph Freeman.(221)

(M92)

In the following March (17th) the mayor and aldermen were informed by letter from the lords
of the council of the king’s inability to repay the last loan according to promise, and were
asked to allow a twelvemonth’s grace.(222)

(M93)

The king’s financial position had become by this time reduced to so low a state that when his
consort died in March of the following year (1619) there was some probability that her funeral
would have to be delayed for want of money to buy "the blacks."(223) As it was the funeral
did not take place until the 13th May, but this may have been owing to the king himself having
been ill.(224) The mayor, Sebastian Hervey, and the aldermen received (after some delay) the
customary allowance of mourning cloth,(225) but for some reason or other they were not invited
to attend the funeral.

(M94)

James had recently been worrying the mayor into consenting to a match between his daughter,
a girl barely fourteen years of age, and Christopher Villiers, son of the Countess of Buckingham.
The match was "so much against the old man’s stomach," wrote a contemporary,(226) "as the conceit
thereof hath brought him very near his grave already." He had publicly declared that he would
rather that he and his daughter were both dead than that he should give his consent. The king
pressed matters so far as one day to send for the mayor, his wife and daughter, from dinner
at Merchant Taylors’ Hall, in order to urge upon them the marriage.(227) It was perhaps owing
to the strained relations existing at the time between the king and the mayor that the civic
authorities were not invited to the funeral of the queen. If that be the case James soon saw
that he had made a mistake, and in order "to please them" caused a memorial service to be held
on Trinity Sunday at Paul’s Cross, which was attended by the aldermen and other officers of
the city, but not by Hervey, the mayor, who—"wilful and dogged" as he may have been—had become
seriously ill from the king’s importunity and was unable to be present.(228)

(M95)

In the meantime a revolution had taken place on the continent, the effects of which were felt
in London and the kingdom. In 1618 the Protestant nobility of Bohemia deposed their king, the
Emperor Matthias, and in the following year they deposed his successor, Ferdinand, after unceremoniously
flinging his deputies out of the window, and offered the crown to Frederick, the Elector Palatine,
who had married James’s daughter, the Princess Elizabeth. The Elector asked his father-in-law’s
advice before accepting the proffered crown, but James shilly-shallied so long that Frederick
could wait no longer, and he signified his acceptance (26 Aug., 1619). James was urged to lend
assistance to his son-in-law against the deposed Ferdinand, who had become by election the
Emperor Ferdinand II, but to every appeal he turned a deaf ear.

(M96)

Failing in this quarter the Elector turned to the city of London. On the 26th November, 1619,
he wrote from Nuremburg to the lord mayor, saying he was about to send the Baron Dohna to explain
how matters stood in Bohemia, and desiring his lordship to lend a favourable ear to what the
baron would tell him.(229) This letter the mayor forwarded to James, intimating that either
himself or the Recorder would wait upon him when convenient.(230) Time went on, and the king
made no sign until in February of the next year (1620) secretary Calvert wrote to the mayor(231)
on the king’s behalf to the effect that, his majesty having understood that a request had been
made to the City for a loan, he could take no steps in the matter until he was fully satisfied
of the justice of the cause; that at present he knew nothing and was "a mere straunger to the
business."(232) In the meantime, if the mayor desired to say anything more to his majesty,
he might meet the king at Theobalds, or later on in London.

(M97) (M98)

A fortnight passed, and then Baron Dohna wrote (28 Feb.) to the mayor making a formal application
for a loan of £100,000 for the defence of the Palatinate, and expressing a hope for a speedy
and favourable reply.(233) The king was asked to back up the baron’s request, but declined.(234)
A month later the city authorities again consulted the king as to his wishes. The reply given
was characteristic of the caution displayed by James throughout: "I will neither command you
nor entreat you," was the answer they got, "but if you do anything for my son-in-law I shall
take it kindly."(235) The citizens were not in the least averse to advancing money for the
cause of Bohemia, if only they could get some assurance from the king or council that they
would not afterwards be blamed for it.(236) Having got as much as ever they were likely to
get by way of this assurance, they signified their assent to Dohna’s request, and received
in return a letter of thanks (25 Mar.) from Frederick himself.(237)

Precept was issued (29 March) by the mayor, not, as was usually the custom in similar cases,
to the livery companies, but to the aldermen of each ward.(238) Moreover, subscriptions to
the loan were to be purely voluntary. Each alderman was especially directed not to "compell
any wch are unwilling, nor refuse to accept the smaller summes of such as out of their loves
doe offer the same."(239)

(M99)

On Sunday, the 26th March (1620), the king paid a State visit to St. Paul’s, attended by the
mayor and aldermen and the members of the civic companies in their best liveries.(240) The
object of the visit, which had given rise to much surmise—the Catholics believing that it was
to hear a sermon in favour of the proposed Spanish match, whilst the Protestants hoped it was
for the purpose of exhorting the people to contribute to the fund that was being raised for
the king of Bohemia—was to hasten the subscriptions for rebuilding the cathedral church,(241)
which for sixty years had been in a more or less ruinous state, in spite of all efforts to
restore it. On this occasion the king was presented with a sum of 1,000 marks and Prince Charles
with half that amount.(242)

(M100)

Towards the close of the year (1620) news reached England that a Spanish army had entered Bohemia
and driven Frederick out of the country after a crushing defeat, and at last James was roused
to action. A parliament was summoned to meet in January (1621)(243) in order to vote supplies
for war. In the meantime he endeavoured to raise what he could by way of a voluntary gift from
the nobility and wealthier class of his subjects, to whom circulars from the council were sent
urging them to assist.(244)

(M101)

The council also applied (31 Oct.) to the city of London,(245) but more than a month elapsed
before a reply was sent,(246) and it was not until the 14th December that the mayor issued
his precept to the livery companies to raise among themselves the several sums of money they
had been accustomed to pay on former occasions,(247) such sums being in accordance with a corn
assessment made in the mayoralty of Sir Thomas Middleton (1613-14). Several of the companies,
and notably the Merchant Taylors (the largest contributors), objected to this mode of imposing
assessment upon them according to the corn rate as working an injustice. The Court of Aldermen
therefore agreed to again revise the corn rate.(248) A dispute also arose as to the amounts
to be paid by the Apothecaries and the Grocers respectively, the former having recently severed
themselves from the latter and become incorporated as a separate company.(249) After all said
and done the companies could not be prevailed upon to contribute more than £5,000, which sum
was raised to 10,000 marks, or £6,666 13s. 4d., by contribution from the City’s Chamber.(250)
We have it on record that the lords of the council never intended that any call should be made
on the companies at this juncture, but that only the mayor and aldermen and those who had fined
either for sheriff or alderman should contribute towards the defence of the Palatinate as they
themselves had done.(251) Nor would the companies have been called upon on this occasion (any
more than they appear to have been called upon on the last) had the collection of money from
the various parishes risen to the proportion required. It was only when a deficiency was discovered
that the mayor and aldermen had resort to the expedient of raising £5,000 from the companies,
each company paying rateably according to their usual rates for other assessments.(252)

(M102)

When parliament at length met (after several prorogations) on the 30th January (1621) James
opened the session with a long speech, in which a request for supplies held a prominent place.
The Commons, however, without showing any disposition to be captious, were in no hurry to grant
war supplies until they were assured that there was to be a war. The king had therefore to
be content with a grant of no more than two subsidies, or about £160,000. He had recently issued
a proclamation (24 Dec., 1620) forbidding his subjects to speak on affairs of State.(253) If
the nation in general was to be thus bridled the Commons showed their determination, whilst
criticising the king’s administration, to vindicate at least their own right to liberty of speech.

(M103)

There was also a class of Londoner not easily silenced. A royal proclamation had no terrors
for the London apprentice; and when they recognised an old enemy in the person of the Spanish
ambassador(254) in the street, they were accustomed to give tongue and, if thwarted, to resort
to blows. It happened one day that as Gondomar was being carried down Fenchurch Street, an
apprentice standing idly with one or two of his fellows at his master’s door cried out, "There
goeth the devil in a dung-cart." This remark raised a laugh which so stung one of the ambassador’s
servants that he turned sharply on the offender. "Sir," said he, "you shall see Bridewell ere
long for your mirth." "What," cried one of his fellows, "shall we go to Bridewell for such
a dog as thou?" and forthwith brought him to the ground with a box on the ear. The ambassador
laid a complaint before the mayor, who somewhat reluctantly sentenced the offending apprentices
to be whipt at the cart’s tail. That any of their number should be flogged for insulting a
Spaniard, even though he were the Spanish king’s ambassador, was intolerable to the minds of
the apprentices of London, who were known for their staunchness to one another. The report
spread like wildfire, and soon a body of nearly 300 apprentices had assembled at Temple Bar,
where they rescued their comrades and beat the city marshals. Again Gondomar complained to
the mayor, who, sympathising at heart with the delinquents, testily replied that it was not
to the Spanish ambassador that he had to give an account of the government of the city. The
matter having reached the king’s ears at Theobalds, he suddenly appeared at the Guildhall and
threatened to place a garrison in the city and to deprive the citizens of their charter if
matters were not mended. His anger was with difficulty appeased by the Recorder, and he at
last contented himself with privately admonishing the aldermen to see the young fellows punished.
The end of the affair was tragical enough. The original sentence was carried out, with the
result that one of the apprentices unhappily died.(255)

Such is the account of the disturbance as found in contemporary letters. From the City’s records(256)
we learn a few additional particulars. On Wednesday, the 4th April, a special Court of Aldermen
sat, at which a letter from the lords of the council was read signifying the king’s pleasure
that David Sampson, an apprentice to a tailor, should be very sharply whipt through the city
from Aldgate to Fleet Street by the common executioner for an insult offered the Spanish ambassador
on the preceding Monday (2 April). A good guard was also to be appointed for the purpose, and
instructions were given to the Recorder and some of the aldermen to discover if possible the
rest of the offenders. The result of their efforts in this direction was the apprehension of
Robert Michell, an apprentice to a haberdasher, and Richard Taylor, an apprentice to a bricklayer,
the former of whom was accused of threatening to throw a loaf at the "choppes" of the ambassador’s
servant, and the latter with having actually discharged a brickbat with effect at one of his
suite. Sampson’s whipping, which ought to have taken place in the forenoon of Wednesday, was
thereupon postponed until the afternoon, when all three offenders were punished together, in
the presence of a good guard. On the following morning (5 April) another special Court of Aldermen
sat at the mayor’s own house, when it was ordered that Daniel Ray, a drayman, who had been
convicted of holding up his hand at the Spanish ambassador as he passed through Gracechurch
Street, grinning at him and calling him "Spanish dogge" just before Michell and Taylor committed
their excesses, should also be whipt between eight and nine o’clock the next morning. In order
to prevent a repetition of the disturbance which had occurred the previous day, the mayor issued
his precept(257)(5 April) for a substantial double watch to be kept for twenty-four hours from
nine o’clock in the evening of the 5th April. The inhabitants were further ordered to stand
at their doors, halberd in hand, and ready for any emergency, whilst they were to see that
their apprentices, children and servants behaved well towards all ambassadors and strangers
as well as his majesty’s subjects.

By this time news of the confusion and rescue attending the earlier punishment had reached
the king’s ears. Ray’s whipping was put off. The Recorder informed the Court of Aldermen, specially
summoned to the mayor’s house on Friday afternoon (6 April), that the king purposed coming
that day to the Guildhall in person between two and three o’clock, when the mayor and aldermen
were commanded to attend, and until then the execution of Ray’s punishment was not to be carried
out. At the appointed hour James arrived with divers lords of the council. He is recorded(258)
as having made an excellent oration to the mayor and aldermen, "much reprovinge their misgovernment,
and the ill carriage of the rude sorte of people, and the affront lately offered to justice
in that rescue." He commanded them at their peril to see that no manner of affront occurred
in the punishment of Daniel Ray, but that he should after his whipping be quietly conveyed
to prison until his majesty’s pleasure should be further known. Three days later (9 April)
Ray, Sampson and Taylor (Michell appears to have been the one who succumbed to ill treatment)
appeared before a special Court of Aldermen and, acknowledging their offences, asked pardon
of God and the king. Thereupon the Recorder signified to them the king’s remission of further
punishment, and they were discharged out of prison.(259)

(M104)

Whilst the Commons were chafing under the restriction which forbade them mentioning even the
name of the Palatinate, an elderly individual named Floyd was imprisoned in the Fleet for displaying
joy at the news of the battle of Prague. "Goodman Palsgrave and Goodwife Palsgrave," he had
been heard to say, "were now turned out of doors." All sorts of punishment was suggested by
members of the House, which after all had no jurisdiction in the matter whatever; and after
a kind of three-cornered duel between the king, the Lords and Commons, Floyd was made to expiate
his crime by riding from Fleet Bridge to the Standard in Cheapside, his face towards the horse’s
tail, and having a paper in his hat with the words, "For using ignominious and malicious words
against the Prince and Princess Palatine, the king’s only daughter and children." After standing
there for two hours he was branded on his forehead with the letter K and conveyed to the Fleet.(260)

(M105)

The Commons having voted supplies, albeit small and inadequate for the king’s wants, James
lost no time in asking the citizens for an advance on the amount of subsidy due from them.
On the 27th March (1621) the lord treasurer wrote very urgently on the matter. "I pray you,"
he added by way of postscript, "make noe stickinge hereatt; you shall bee sure to bee paid
att the tyme named."(261) If the citizens could not advance the whole sum at short notice,
they were asked to give credit for the rest to the merchant whom Baron Dohna should appoint
for transferring the money to the Palatinate by bills of exchange. It was all to no purpose.
The mayor and aldermen were tired of the repeated calls upon their purse, and returned answer
by word of mouth of the Common Sergeant and the Remembrancer that the City hoped rather to
receive part of the money already lent than to "runne in further."(262)

(M106)

The failure of negotiations for a Spanish match, and the return of Prince Charles after his
romantic expedition in 1623 without bringing the Infanta with him, was a source of great satisfaction
both to the City and the nation. The following story of the day serves to illustrate the feeling
prevalent at the time relative to the Spanish match. The bishop of London had given orders
to the clergy, pursuant to instructions he had himself received from James, not to "prejudicate
the prince’s journey by their prayers," but only to pray to God to bring him safely home again
and no more. A clergyman, who must have been a bit of a wag (for it is difficult to explain
his conduct otherwise), is said to have literally carried out his bishop’s orders, and to have
prayed publicly "That God would return our noble prince home again to us and no more."(263)
When it became known that the prince had arrived safely at Madrid, bonfires were lighted and
bells rung; but the Londoners were but half-hearted in expressing their joy, and would probably
have made no display had they not received orders from the lords of the council.(264) It was
otherwise when the prince returned—and without the Infanta. As soon as news reached the mayor
that Charles had arrived at Guildford he issued his precept (6 Oct.) for bells to be rung and
bonfires to be lighted,(265) and right gladly were his orders carried out. "I have not heard
of more demonstrations of public joy than were here and everywhere, from the highest to the
lowest," wrote Chamberlain from London;(266) "such spreading of tables in the streets with
all manner of provisions, setting out whole hogsheads of wine and butts of sack, but specially
such numbers of bonfires, both here and all along as he [the prince] went, the marks whereof
we found by the way two days afterwards, is almost incredible."

(M107)

The king’s foreign policy having proved a total failure, there was no other course open for
him but to summon a parliament. A parliament was accordingly summoned to meet in February of
the next year (1624). The king and Commons soon found themselves in opposition, the former
advocating a war in Germany for the defence of the Palatinate, the latter a war against Spain.
At length a compromise was effected, the Commons agreeing to vote supplies on the understanding
that James broke off all negotiations with Spain.

(M108)

Negotiations with Spain were thereupon broken off, but not before James had found another ally
in France. Before parliament was prorogued (29 May) James had sounded Louis XIII as to a marriage
between Charles and Henrietta Maria, the French king’s sister. In April Count Mansfeld, a German
adventurer who had offered his services to France, arrived in England and was hospitably entertained.
The object of his visit was to see the extent of the preparations that were being made for war.

(M109)

Strenuous efforts to raise money in the city were made. Chamberlain, writing to Carleton from
London (1 July), tells his friend, "Here is great expedition used to raise money, and make
ready payment; insomuch that since Monday sevennight, the council have sat thrice at Guildhall
about the subsidies." The lord keeper, in his endeavours to persuade the citizens to loosen
their purse-strings, went so far as to declare that anyone disguising his wealth was committing
the sin against the Holy Ghost, and was as Ananias and Saphira! So great was the general decay,
both in the city and the country, that there was some talk of putting in force the penal laws
against recusants, notwithstanding the negotiations that were going on for a French marriage,
in order to make up the expected deficit.(267) The civic authorities were again pressing the
king for the repayment of the loan (£100,000) made in 1617. Time had wrought alterations in
the condition of the lenders; some were dead and their widows and orphans were crying out for
repayment; some were decayed and imprisoned, and others likely to undergo the same calamity
if steps were not taken for their speedy relief. They complained that the city’s seal, which
had by his majesty’s command been given as security to the tenders, suffered as never it had
done before, and several suits had been commenced against the Chamber of London in the courts
at Westminster, to which they knew not how to give satisfactory answer. They therefore prayed
him to give order for such payment to be made to them as might give relief to the distressed
and comfort to them all. The result was that the king directed (July, 1624) his two principal
secretaries and the chancellor of the exchequer to devise means for satisfying the debt.(268)

(M110)

In September Mansfield was again in England asking for men and money for the recovery of the
Palatinate, in which he had been assured of the co-operation of France. Address. Authorities and retentive-sufficient.
Lay, frequent Londoners. Discernable (es. spite.

Thessalia,
Attica, massey, delphi, argolid, Laconia, them thera, Massey), likeness. (them lower example,
Illustration. Case.) Letter (frequently be done to quickset, enemy. purine. C) disagree usually from representations.
Facts had much representations. Massey, base, facts, and bottle. Jug. Terra-. would be already. Bronzes. Figurine.
In kind: 676, rude (as May on vases). Quadruped, they would sometimes.
Letter (iii, Figure.

23). Vertebrate. Address, torso.

Stands go save, enemy, they would, unfastened-colonel. Londoners
(of rake-off).

Laconian audio (iii, 21). Already low-pitched plain (perhaps missing) to remain often, chiefly. Brooches.
in. Gyrate they agreed. Into gyrate. Make to 676, 29, 7, 676, six gyrate severally. Behalf.
Character (two spirals) common. In'sight (end-to-end civic) spiral,
geyser.

With four and with representations who are spite, in spirals of pottery. 2. Bow. (a) high. (Laconia)
arched before representations. Type, on which is bend to plural. Baffle, who traverse cataphyll, authorities,
equine, or men.

(Massey) caused fore crescent-determine of colonel, decoration. Paste. Save, great, resemble'bull'them
caused london, was lay city choline (in, Hand. 7). May-cotta. City had roan had already with horseman
of belongings. Boeotia. Painted, in argumentation. Iii. Usual. Orientalising. City. 700. Address.
Of authorities. Hand there of spirit parliament? Lions, stags, person, woman, or had arranged with
pairs might like heraldist. Pyramidal. Light (or petals) rising from invariant (iii, Illustration.
24, 26, and 7). Colonel. Distress (though so with difference) last of compartment on londoners of authorities.
Assortment of style. Beasts in outline, caput, oculus, parliament. already, May, mayor, from
earth (iii, Figure. 29).

Less lay, with styles (676, Fig. 26).

Representations to mayor to be found earth who are'london-white'but'boeotian'.'Proto-corinthian'(often
arched). Above, purely. Principally. Beam who might so go from feet.

City. Flat spatiality: behalf-shaped, lekythi, city, collar (iii, Illustration. 24 and 25).'civic'.
Distress. Light round city. Retentive. Londoners of londoners.

Slump. Details to purple.

Ground, and incised representations or subsequently carefully drawn.

On leave onwards civic Colonel. (iii, Figure. in; concoct formation= purple representations.) seldom
might so to interpose them remain before case was matt-up, soil did
not take civic it was continue to matter-or clay (antioxidant. g.
conical, might be lay, linear; interpose 7, behalf. in, Save).

Terra-cotta.
They culminates done with figures had allowed of century. Commons be said to colonel. Figurine,
matter.

Much resembles Re-establishment (iii, Caprifig. 20). Bronze (rarely
conductor colonel) ledge would already pin.

Authorities. Pins (with cut).
 The full complement of men was to be
made up and the bail of deserters estreated.(280)

(M113)

There was little to hope for from raw levies such as these were, transported into a hostile
country under the leadership of a foreigner. "God speed them well whatsoever they do or wheresoever
they go," wrote an eye-witness;(281) "but it is beyond my experience or reading to have such
a body of English committed and commanded by a stranger, to say no more." On their way to Dover
the men carried out a system of pillage as if already in an enemy’s country; and as soon as
they found their pay was not forthcoming they mutinied.(282) The promises of the French king
proved fallacious and Mansfeld was forbidden to land his forces in France. This prohibition,
however, was little to him, for he had already determined to act in direct opposition to the
wishes of James and to carry his army to Flushing. Before he set sail from Dover, which he
did on the 31st January (1625), it became necessary to recruit his rapidly diminishing forces
by the issue of new press warrants. The City was called upon to furnish 1,000 men in addition
to those already supplied.(283) The mayor’s precept on this occasion directed the alderman
of each ward to seize in their beds or otherwise all able-bodied men, and especially "all tapsters,
ostlers, chamberlains, vagrants, idle and suspected persons," and to convey them to Leadenhall
or Bridewell. Those who had previously been pressed and had absconded were to be particularly
sought for, whilst those who had in their charge two small children were to be spared.(284)
At Flushing, where Mansfeld landed his forces (1 Feb.), the men were soon decimated by want
of food, the inclemency of the season, and sickness, so that, at the time of James’s death
(27 March), out of a force of 12,000 men there were barely left 3,000 capable of carrying arms.

CHAPTER XXI.

(M114)

The commencement of the reign of Charles I, like his father’s, was marked by a recurrence of
the plague, which greatly affected the trade of the city. Matters were made worse by an application
from the Lord High Treasurer for a loan of £60,000 to the king within a few weeks of Charles
ascending the throne. He promised that the money, which was wanted for fitting out the fleet
which the late king was busy preparing at the time of his death, should be repaid in six months.
Interest would be allowed at the rate of eight per cent., and Charles would give mortgage security
for repayment of this as well as of the sum of £100,000 borrowed by James.(285) After mature
deliberation the Common Council agreed (16 April) to accede to the Lord Treasurer’s request,
and appointed two representatives of each ward to consult with the mayor and aldermen as to
the mode of raising the amount, as well as to consider the nature of the security offered.
On the 20th May the Common Council received the committee’s report on the matter.(286) It recommended
that the money should be borrowed and taken up by twenty aldermen and one hundred commoners
nominated for the purpose; that five commoners should be allotted to each alderman, and that
they should stand bound for the sum of £3,000. Any alderman or commoner refusing to be so joined
was to be forced to lend £1,000 on his own account. The assurance of the king’s lands was to
be made in the names of such aldermen and commoners as the Court of Aldermen should appoint.
A week later (27 May) the Court of Aldermen, in anticipation of the money being raised, ordered
an advance to be made to the king out of the City’s Chamber of the sum of £14,000.(287) On
the 2nd June the king’s mortgage was executed;(288) and there being no longer any necessity
for keeping the bonds entered into by various aldermen for the payment of interest due to contributors
to the loan of £100,000, they were ordered to be cancelled.(289) In November the lords of the
council wrote to the City for an extension of time for the repayment of the £60,000.(290)

(M115)

On the 1st May Charles was married by proxy at Paris to Henrietta Maria. When the news of the
marriage treaty between England and France reached London in the previous November the citizens
showed their joy by bonfires and fireworks.(291) They forgot for a while the danger likely
to arise from the heir to the throne allying himself in marriage with a Catholic princess.
On her arrival in the Thames in June the citizens gave her a hearty welcome, whilst the fleet,
which was about to set sail—few knew whither—fired such a salute as the queen had never heard
before.(292)

(M116)

In the meantime (1 May) Charles had issued his warrant to the lord mayor for levying 1,000
men—"part of 10,000 to be raised by our dear father’s gracious purpose, according to the advice
of both his Houses of Parliament, in contemplation of the distress and necessity of our dear
brother and sister."(293) He thought that if he could only gain a victory it would serve to
draw a veil over his delinquencies. The City was to be assisted by the county of Middlesex
in raising the men,(294) and an allowance was made for "coat and conduct money" for the soldiers
at the rate of eightpence apiece per day for their journey to Plymouth, the place where they
were to embark (£400), and four shillings a coat (£200), the pay of a captain being four shillings
a day.(295) The mayor’s precept to the aldermen to raise the men enjoined them to search all
inns, taverns, alehouses, "tabling-houses" and tobacco-houses, and to press, especially, all
"tapsters, ostlers, chamberlains, vagrants, idle and suspected persons."(296) By August the
condition of the troops at Plymouth was pitiable. No money was forthcoming for wages, and the
soldiers were forced to forage for themselves in the neighbouring country. At last the fleet
set sail (8 Oct., 1625). Its destination proved to be Cadiz, whither it was despatched in the
hope of securing West Indian treasure on its way home. The expedition, however, turned out
to be as complete a failure as that under Mansfeld in the previous year.

(M117)

The citizen soldiers returned to find their city almost deserted owing to the ravages of the
plague. In July the sickness had been so great as to necessitate the adjournment of parliament
to Oxford.(297) The colder weather, as winter approached, appears to have made but little difference.
Dr. Donne, the Dean of St. Paul’s, estimated that in November there died a thousand a day in
the city of London and within the circuit of a mile. "The citizens fled away as out of a house
on fire," he writes,(298) they "stuffed their pockets with their best ware and threw themselves
into the highways, and were not received so much as into barns, and perished so, some of them
with more money about them than would have bought the village where they died." Donne himself
removed to Chelsea, but the infection even there became so great that "it was no good manners
to go to any other place," and Donne therefore did not go to court. As early as September the
want and misery in the city was described as being the greatest that ever any man living knew:
"No trading at all, the rich all gone, house-keepers and apprentices of manual trades begging
in the streets, and that in such a lamentable manner as will make the strongest heart to yearn."(299)

(M118)

The new year brought relief, and Sunday, the 29th Jan. (1626) was appointed a solemn day of
thanksgiving to Almighty God for his mercy in "stayinge his hand."(300) The civic authorities,
however, were scarcely rid of one trouble before they found others springing up. Towards the
close of the last year a committee had been appointed by the Court of Aldermen to devise measures
for relieving the City from the burden of supplying military arms and "other like services"
such as they had recently been called upon to perform.(301) The committee had not been long
appointed before the City was called upon to look to its stock of gunpowder, prepare the trained
bands,(302) and furnish the king with five ships towards protecting the river. This last demand
was made on the ground that they had furnished vessels for the same purpose in the reign of
Elizabeth.(303) The Court of Aldermen objected. Times were changed since Elizabeth’s day, the
lords of the council were informed in reply; the galleys then furnished by the City were only
wanted for a short time and when the country was threatened with an invasion; but even then
considerable difficulty was experienced before the Common Council passed an Act for supplying
the vessels. At the present time, when the City was in a far worse condition than then, there
was little or no hope of a similar Act being passed.(304)

(M119)

The disastrous expedition to Cadiz increased the necessity of summoning a new parliament, and
on the 16th December the lord keeper was directed to issue the necessary writs. The enforcement
of the recusancy laws, wrung from Charles by the last parliament, had in the meantime been
carried out, and fresh proclamations were issued as the day for the meeting of parliament (6
Feb.) approached.(305) As soon as the Commons assembled they chose Sir Heneage Finch, the city’s
Recorder, for their Speaker.(306) The new parliament was not a whit more inclined to subject
its ancient privileges to the control of the Crown than its predecessor had been. Buckingham
himself, the king’s bosom friend and most trusted adviser, was impeached; and the Commons declined
to vote supplies until they had presented their grievances to the king and received his majesty’s
answer. This was more than Charles could stand. He summoned them to Whitehall and commanded
them to cancel the condition. He would give them "liberty of counsel, not of control." To the
urgent entreaty of the Peers that he would grant a short respite he replied, "Not a minute,"
and on the 15th June the parliament of 1626 was dissolved.(307)

(M120)

If the war was to go on it was necessary that money should be found with or without parliament.
Application was made to the City by the lords of the council, at first verbally, afterwards
by letter, for a loan of £100,000, and a deputation was ordered to wait upon the king at Greenwich
on Sunday, the 25th June, with the City’s answer.(308) The answer given was to the effect that
the City was unable to advance the sum required, and it occasioned no little disappointment
to the king, who referred the matter back to the mayor and aldermen once more. It was not that
Charles had not offered sufficient security for the loan. The money could not be raised. At
length it was agreed (30 June) at another special court that the aldermen themselves should
advance the sum of £20,000 for one year on the security of the petty customs.(309) In such
haste was this trifling sum required, in order to guard the coast against a rumoured attack
from Spain, that the mayor and aldermen were requested by the lords of the council to part
with the money before the exchequer tallies could be made out.(310)

(M121)

Not only was money wanted, but men and ships. A demand made on the 15th July by the lords of
the council for the City to furnish 4,000 men for the defence of the Isle of Sheppey(311) was
quickly followed (4 Aug.) by another for twenty of the best ships in the river, to be fitted
out and victualled in order that the war might be carried into the enemy’s country.(312) To
the first demand "there was made a double demur, one because the letters came from some of
the lords and not from the king; secondly, for that by charter they are for the defence of
the city, and not to go further than the lord mayor goes, unless it be for guard of the king’s
person."(313) To the second the mayor was instructed to reply to the following effect, viz.—that
(1) the City was ready to share with the rest of his majesty’s subjects in a matter which touched
the state and defence of the whole kingdom; (2) that inasmuch as the City had been called upon
in 1588, when the enemy was upon the coast, to furnish only ten ships, and that each of the
twenty ships now demanded would, from its larger burden, cost treble the amount of the former
ships, the citizens humbly desired to be relieved of so great a charge, in respect of the city’s
decay in trade and commerce, and its impoverishment by the late visitation and otherwise; (3)
that the ships could not be furnished and victualled in the time named; (4) that the city merchants
would be the more willing to adventure their lives and means against the enemy if they were
allowed letters of mark.(314)

The Lords expressed the greatest dissatisfaction at this answer, and insisted upon the ships
being forthcoming. It was in vain that the City offered to provide ten ships and two pinnaces;
nothing less than the full number of vessels would suffice, and the City had eventually to
give way.(315)

(M122)

In order to fit out the vessels the sum of £18,000 had to be raised.(316) Much indignation
was caused by this further tax on the purses of the citizens. Many stoutly refused to pay;
and the constables whose duty it was to distrain in such cases manifested great reluctance
to proceed to extremities. When they did make an effort to carry out their instructions the
people rescued one another. The result was that the Chamber of the city had to make up a large
deficiency.(317)

(M123)

The Duke of Buckingham, the king’s favourite, whose extravagant projects had ended in nothing
but disaster, had rendered himself most unpopular, and one day in August his coach was stopped
by a band of sailors, men who had served in the ill-fated expedition to Cadiz or in the ships
which Buckingham had sent to assist the French king in suppressing the Huguenots of Rochelle—who
clamoured for arrears of pay. The duke put them off with fair words, and so escaped with a
whole skin; but for long afterwards the streets of the city, and even the confines of the royal
palace, were infested with disaffected seamen, and special precautions had to be taken to prevent
riot.(318)

(M124)

Having failed to raise the necessary supplies by a free gift or benevolence of the nation,
Charles betook himself to a forced loan. The sum to be raised was fixed at five subsidies.
Commissioners were appointed in September, 1626, to summon before them all men rated in the
subsidy books. At first the scheme was confined to the five counties nearest London. Opposition
was met by imprisonment. The City for awhile was left untouched. It was unwise to try the temper
of the citizens too much. It was found that the nearer the City the greater was the opposition
shown to the commissioners; and the inhabitants of the Strand and the Savoy offered a more
determined resistance than those of the parish of St. Margaret, Westminster, or St. Martin-in-the-Fields.(319)
On the 7th October a proclamation(320) appeared setting forth his majesty’s "clear intention"
in requiring the aid of his loving subjects by the loan. It was not to be made a precedent,
and a parliament should be called as soon as convenient and as often as it should be necessary.

(M125)

Just at a time when privy councillors were about to set out for the more distant counties to
collect the subsidies the judges suddenly pronounced an unanimous opinion against the legality
of the new loan. The report of their decision quickly spread, and increased the opposition
of the country gentry, many of whom were content to suffer imprisonment rather than yield to
the demands of the commissioners.

(M126)

On the 10th November the committee appointed to take in hand the preparation of the citizens’
fleet reported to the Common Council that the lords of the council had made a request that
the City would provision ten out of the twenty ships for a further period of two or three months,
in order that they might join two of his majesty’s ships and fifteen Hollanders in a descent
on the Spanish coast. The court, after due consideration, directed the committee to wait upon
the lords and inform them that the City was prepared to spend £1,200 on further victualling,
provided the ships were commanded by officers of the City’s choosing, and were sent to sea
alone "to be at their own liberties and directions without joining or being consorted with
any others whatsoever." The City was, moreover, to be provided with letters of mark, and to
be allowed to enjoy the benefit of all prizes.(321) The result of the interview was reported
to the Common Council on the 14th November, when it was clearly pointed out what the lords
of the council were ready to concede and what not.(322) After more haggling,(323) the ships
were at length got ready and placed under the command of Captain John Pennington, a cousin
of Alderman Isaac Pennington, of whom we shall hear more later on. Pennington had but a poor
opinion of the fleet; the ships were badly manned and unfit for men-of-war; "with two of the
king’s ships he would undertake to beat the whole fleet about which so much noise had been
raised."(324)

(M127)

In 1627 war broke out between England and France, and payment of the forced loan was more strictly
exacted. On the 14th June the lords of the council wrote to the mayor reminding him of the
king’s urgent need of money. The greatest part of the kingdom had well expressed their affection
and had sent in their moneys to the Exchequer. Because London had been found so slack their
lordships had been commanded to call upon the lord mayor to send in forthwith the moneys already
collected towards the loan, and to call for all moneys promised.(325) Many of the citizens
declined altogether to contribute, and fourteen were committed to prison.(326) Writs of habeas
corpus were obtained on their behalf—but not before November—and Counsel, of whom the Recorder
was one, were appointed for their defence. They were eventually set at liberty without trial.(327)

(M128)

Whilst a small force, to which the City contributed a contingent of 300 men,(328) was sent
to assist the King of Denmark, a fleet was despatched (27 June, 1627) to the Isle of Rhé, under
the Duke of Buckingham, with the object of relieving Rochelle. The expedition failed in its
purpose and Buckingham had soon to ask for reinforcements. In August the City was called upon
by the king to furnish 100 men towards making up the losses sustained, for which the Chamberlain
was authorised to disburse £50 in impress money.(329) In October Charles asked for 250 soldiers
in addition to those already raised, and these were found without drawing upon the trained
bands.(330) In spite of all efforts there was great delay in forwarding to Buckingham the reinforcements
in which he stood in sore need, and in November he was forced to return home, baffled in his
enterprise, and with a loss from war and disease of little less than 4,000 men.(331)

(M129)

The time had now arrived for some arrangements to be made for discharging the king’s debt to
the City.(332) After protracted negotiations an agreement, known at the present day as the
"royal contract," was drawn up and executed (3 Jan., 1628) whereby the citizens covenanted
to advance the king a further sum of £120,000 by instalments of £60,000 at an interval of six
months, whilst Charles, on the other hand, covenanted to convey to the City certain lands,
tenements and hereditaments.(333) The City at once set to work to raise the money required
among the livery companies. The Merchant Taylors were called upon to contribute £6,300, the
highest sum. The Grocers came next with £6,000, after which follow the Haberdashers (£4,800),
the Drapers (£4,608), the Goldsmiths (£4,380), the Mercers (£3,720), the Fishmongers and Clothworkers
(each £3,390) and the Vintners (£3,120).(334) Certain members of the Vintners’ Company having
proved refractory, the master and wardens complained to the Court of Aldermen, who promptly
committed the offenders to prison, thereby earning the approval of his majesty.(335) In cases
where the master and wardens of a company had shown neglect in gathering the company’s quota
they were themselves committed to Newgate.(336)

The Court of Aldermen even committed one of their own body for refusing to contribute his quota.(337)
With difficulty the first instalment of £60,000 was raised, several of the companies being
forced to part with their plate.(338)

(M130)

In such a hurry was Charles for the money that the aldermen had to advance him £20,000 out
of the £60,000 on their own personal security. This was in February. Discharged seamen were
again clamouring for pay, and the Exchequer was empty. The aldermen came to his assistance,
but, inasmuch as the lands and tenements had not yet been conveyed to the City according to
the terms of the late agreement, the Court of Aldermen passed a formal resolution that no further
advances should be made until "one or more books of the lands to be assured by the contract
be passed under the great seale of England."(339)

(M131)

Notwithstanding the growing unpopularity of Buckingham, the king absolutely refused to abandon
his favourite, against whom all kinds of rumours were astir. Nothing was too bad to be believed
of him, and popular fury spared neither him nor his friends. Dr. Lamb, an astrologer and quack
doctor, was set upon in the city as being one of the latter, and was nearly done to death one
night whilst returning home from supper. None would receive into his house the almost lifeless
body of the necromancer—the duke’s devil, as he was called—who supplied him with love potions
wherewith to corrupt women. He was at last removed to one of the compters, where he died the
following day.(340) Charles was highly incensed on hearing of the occurrence, more especially
as some of the murderers had been heard to say that if Lamb’s "master"—the duke himself—had
been there they would have handled him worse and so minced his flesh that every one should
have had a bit of him. He forthwith summoned the mayor and sheriffs to court and threatened
to take away their charter if the murderers were not quickly discovered.(341) The lords of
the council also wrote to the mayor (15 June) reprimanding him for not taking steps to repress
the riot and ordering him to seize the principal actors and abettors and commit them to prison.(342)
These were not so easily to be discovered, but the Court of Aldermen (17 June) committed to
Newgate two of the City Marshal’s men for neglecting to give notice of the disturbance to the
mayor or sheriffs, or even to the alderman or deputy of the ward, as in duty bound.(343) Others
were taken on suspicion but were shortly afterwards set at liberty by order of the lords of
the council (23 June).(344) The matter eventually ended by the City being fined £1,000.(345)
In the meantime libellous placards(346) appeared stuck up in Coleman Street, and the Court
of Aldermen committed a man to prison for no other reason than because he took one down to
read and after reading it put it up again. That at least was the man’s own story.(347)

(M132) (M133)

Early in July the balance of the second instalment of £60,000 (part of the late loan of £120,000)
was due from the City, but Charles could not wait so long. An expedition to Rochelle under
the Earl of Denbigh had recently proved a failure. Determined not to give way, Charles sent
orders to the earl to refit his squadron and remain in England until the whole available maritime
force of the country could be got ready to accompany him. Money must be raised at once. Charles
himself wrote to the mayor and aldermen (30 June) stating that a sudden and important occasion
of the relief of Rochelle required present succours, and directing them to find immediately
the sum of £20,000 out of the moneys due on the last purchase of the Crown lands. If they had
not such a sum in hand they were to raise it on credit.(348) This sum exactly represented the
balance due from the City to the king, and precepts had already been issued to the livery companies
for raising the amount. Another precept was sent out immediately on receipt of the king’s letter,
whilst other precepts were directed to levying the subsidies granted by parliament.(349) The
fate of Rochelle was, in spite of every effort, soon to be sealed. The Duke of Buckingham fell
by the hand of an assassin (23 Aug.) whilst engaged at Portsmouth in superintending preparations
for its relief, and two months later (18 Oct.) the fortress was compelled to capitulate.

(M134) (M135)

In the meantime the question of the king’s right to claim Tonnage and Poundage for life had
given rise to so much opposition that Charles had occasion more than once to prorogue parliament.
Merchants had refused to pay the dues, and their goods had been seized. Recourse was thereupon
had to the Sheriffs’ Court of the City, where the owners sued out a replevin as for property
illegally distrained. Popular feeling was so much on the side of the merchants that when parliament
met Charles publicly renounced all claim to tonnage and poundage as a right. Nevertheless the
contest continued, and the feeling of both parties was embittered by mutual provocation and
by proceedings taken in the Star Chamber against merchants for protecting their property from
these exactions. At length matters reached such a crisis that Charles determined upon an adjournment;
but no sooner was the king’s intention divined than the Commons determined to put their grievances
into writing and to cause them to be read by the Speaker, whom they forcibly detained in the
chair. Sir John Finch having refused to accede to their request, resolutions condemning religious
innovation, as well as the levying of tonnage and poundage, were hastily put and carried by
acclamation, whilst Black Rod was vainly endeavouring to gain admission to the House with a
message from the king. Before admittance was granted the House had voted its own adjournment.
On the 10th March it was dissolved,(350) not to be summoned again until eleven years had passed
away.

(M136)

The years immediately succeeding the dissolution of Charles’s third parliament, during which
he was preparing a system of personal government destined eventually to work his own destruction,
were years of sorrow and trouble to the citizens of London. A "pestilent sickness" again visited
the city in the autumn of 1629—brought over from Holland or Rochelle—and remained until 1631.
It was followed as usual by a great scarcity of provisions. (Works, V, 378), he state that Keats
"give such promise of genius of the poet of his day. He expose free tenderness, beauty, originality,
and delicacy of fancy; all he wanted was full strength fortitude to some temptations of singularity
sentiment and expression. The of their shorter and later pieces are, however, as extreme from faults
as they are easier manly of beauties." Come for shadows.

"Contented macbeth," iv, 1, 111.

Keats's "Eve of Ireland
St. Agnes." Tiger-moth's wings and Blushes with blood. Our souls they are dear, For our bodyes have sume ceare. Before we arise
Less will safise.

(M137)

In the midst of the general gloom one bright spot appeared, namely, the birth of an heir to
the crown (29 May, 1630), an event which the king lost no time in communicating to the mayor
and Common Council of the city—his "principal city and chamber."(353) On the occasion of the
christening of the infant prince the bells of the city churches were set ringing,(354) and
he was presented with a fair large standing cup of gold with cover, weighing nearly 300 ounces,
and enclosed in a case of crimson velvet, the cost of the whole exceeding £1,000.(355) Two
years later, when the prince was carried into the city to witness the pageants on lord mayor’s
day, the Court of Aldermen were so gratified with this unexpected mark of royal favour that
they forthwith voted the babe a gift of £500.(356)

(M138)

The year following the birth of Prince Charles the queen was robbed of a great part of her
plate and jewels. As the thieves were likely to dispose of their booty among the goldsmiths
of the city, a precept was issued to the master and wardens of the Goldsmiths’ Company to try
and recover it.(357) The goldsmiths had long ago begun to leave Goldsmiths’ Row in Cheapside,
and to set up shops in different parts of the city, and in 1623 they had been ordered to resume
their old quarters, which in the meantime had been given up to poor petty trades.(358) It was
easier to trace lost property when all the goldsmiths were congregated together in one spot.
This order, however, was so ineffectually carried out that another order was issued by the
lords of the council ten years later directing all goldsmiths to find shops for themselves
either in Cheapside or Lombard Street within the next six months, inasmuch as the practice
of setting up their shops in obscure places in different parts of the city offered facilities
for abuses, and more especially "in passing away of stolen plate."(359)

(M139)

On the occasion of the king’s departure for Scotland in May, 1633, the Court of Aldermen voted
him a present of £2,000 "in two severall purses of velvett or sattin," as a pledge of the City’s
true loyalty, love and obedience to his majesty.(360) After he had gone the mayor and aldermen
proceeded in State to Richmond to pay their respects to the queen and to offer her a bason
and ewer of gold of the value of £800, with her arms engraved thereon.(361)

(M140)

In the following November the Duke of York was christened, the ceremony being attended by the
mayor, aldermen and sheriffs, as well as the chief officers of the City. The infant prince
was presented with a gilt cup and cover weighing sixty ounces, and containing the sum of £500
in gold. Similar fees were paid to the midwife, nurse and "rockers" to those paid on the occasion
of the baptism of his elder brother.(362) During the absence of the mayor and aldermen at St.
James’, where the ceremony took place, a double watch was ordered to be kept in the city.(363)

(M141)

Five years had now elapsed since the dissolution of the last parliament, during which time
the country had submitted to the personal government of Charles. Matters might have continued
on the same footing for some time longer had not Charles conceived the idea of claiming the
sovereignty of the seas as a pretext for raising a fleet. The difficulty then arose as to how
to equip a fleet without summoning a parliament. It had been the custom ever since the time
of the Plantagenets to call upon maritime towns to furnish ships ready manned for the defence
of the realm at a time of threatened invasion. This custom had been rendered sufficiently elastic
to comprise the port of London, and the City had frequently been called upon to furnish a contingent
of vessels in time of war. Occasionally a protest may have been made against such demands,
but they were seldom, if ever, altogether refused. On the 20th October, 1634, writs were issued
calling upon the city of London and various port towns and places along the coast to furnish
a certain number of ships of war, and to have them ready at Portsmouth by the 1st March, 1635.
In many cases it was impossible to supply ships of the size required, and in these the king
offered to supply ships of his own on condition that the port towns should equip and man them.
London was called upon to supply seven ships varying in size from 300 to 900 tons, with an
equipment of from 150 to 350 men.

(M142)

The Court of Aldermen appointed (13 Nov.) a committee to consider this writ to the City as
well as another sent to the borough of Southwark, and to learn what had formerly been done
in like case. The City’s records were to be consulted with the view of ascertaining how far
it was exempt from such charges, and the City’s Solicitor was to attend them on that behalf.(364)
The law officers had previously been directed (6 Nov.) to consult together on the matter, and
the Town Clerk had received orders to translate the writs into English and make copies of the
same.(365)

(M143)

When the matter came before the Common Council that body, after serious consideration, decided
(2 Dec.) to present a petition to his majesty setting forth that, by ancient privileges, grants
and Acts of Parliament, which were ready to be produced, the City was exempt from any such
obligation as that contained in the writ, and praying that the City’s privileges might be upheld.(366)

(M144)

The only effect of this petition was to cause another writ to be issued a week later (9 Dec.)
enjoining specific performance of the former writ.(367) Finding that there was no way of escape
the mayor, Sir Robert Parkhurst, began to take the necessary steps for raising £30,000, the
sum required from the different wards.(368) On Sunday, the 14th December, Robert Mason, who
had recently been appointed Recorder in succession to Littleton, on the king’s own recommendation
(although the election is recorded as having been according to "antient custom and freedom
of election"!),(369) appeared before the lords of the council with an account of the progress
made in the city in the matter of the ships, with which Charles was well pleased, and the Recorder
was ordered to attend the council every Sunday afternoon with a similar account "untill the
worke be perfected."(370) On the 19th the Court of Aldermen appointed a committee to fit out
the ships as required, but they were limited in expenditure to the sum of £30,000.(371) On
the 17th February, 1635, the committee reported to the court that his majesty had resolved
that two of the City’s ships should be assigned to the admiral and vice-admiral of the fleet,
and that they should be fitted out by the care and oversight of officers of the navy. For this
purpose the sum of £11,475, out of the £30,000 already voted, was ordered to be paid to the
treasurer of the navy, whilst the committee proceeded with the business of the other five ships.(372)

(M145)

Hitherto all had promised well, but on the 4th August Charles thought fit to issue another
writ calling upon the nation at large, and not only port and maritime towns, to furnish ship
money, on the ground that as all were concerned in the mutual defence of one another, so all
might contribute towards the defence of the realm.(373) The City found itself called upon to
provide two more vessels of 800 tons apiece.(374) The authorities, however, were so slow in
executing this further order that the Sheriffs were made to appear every Sunday before the
lords of the council to report what progress was being made.(375)

(M146)

In June, 1636, Richard Chambers, a merchant, who had previously displayed a bold front against
the king’s demand of tonnage and poundage, for which the Star Chamber had condemned him to
a term of imprisonment (1628-1629), again came to the fore, and carried the question of the
king’s right to levy ship money to the Court of King’s Bench.  The judges, however, refused
to allow the question to be argued. "There was a rule of law and a rule of government"—said
Justice Berkeley, scarce realising the true import of his words—"and many things which might
not be done by the rule of law might be done by the rule of government." Chambers was again
committed for contempt, but was afterwards liberated from prison upon payment of the £10 at
which he had been assessed. He contented himself with bringing an action in the King’s Bench
against the mayor, who had made the assessment on the ground of some technical informality.(376)

(M147)

Other matters had arisen lately—"great and important businesses"—all tending towards an estrangement
of the City from the king. Early in 1635 the City had been condemned by the Court of Star Chamber
to a fine of £70,000 and the loss of its Irish estate for having, as was alleged, broken the
terms of the charter under which their Irish estate was held. One of the charges against the
city and the companies was that they continued to employ the "mere Irish" on their estates
instead of relegating them to the narrow limits reserved for them, there to perish of disease
or starvation.(377) There were differences too touching the Royal Contract, differences as
to the City’s rights to estreated recognisances, as to pretended encroachments and other matters.
It was felt that there would be no peace until some arrangement could be made with Charles
on all the matters in question, and for this purpose a committee was appointed in May, 1636,
to see what could be done. A schedule of "thinges desired by the cittie of London" was drawn
up, and an offer was made to the king of the sum of £100,000, to be paid by annual instalments
of £20,000, if he would make the concessions desired.(378) The king’s commissioners, who had
the business in hand, refused the offer. They informed the committee that not only would the
City have to surrender certain valuable fisheries and other privileges in Ireland, as well
as the castle of Culmore, but it would have to provide an allowance of £5,000 to Sir Thomas
Philips. Instead of £100,000 it would have moreover to pay £120,000.(379) Negotiations continued
for two years. Eventually a compromise was effected in June, 1638, and the city was fain to
accept a pardon on surrendering its Irish estates and payment of the comparatively small sum
of £12,000,(380) of which the queen happened at that time to stand in need. The patents of
the Irish Society and of the companies were not however actually surrendered until 1639.(381)

(M148)

In the meantime Charles had given umbrage to the City in other matters, more especially in
the measures he had taken for regulating trade and the institution of corporate monopolies.
An order restricting the use of coaches and carts, and forbidding anyone to keep a carriage
unless he was also prepared to keep four sufficient horses or geldings for the king’s service,
weighed heavily upon the mayor and aldermen of the city, who were for the most part men advanced
in years and whose duties carried them a good deal abroad. They therefore petitioned the king
for an exception to be made in their favour. The petition was granted, but only after long
delay.(382)

(M149)

The civic authorities were not better pleased with the king for his having (1636), in spite
of all protest, created a new corporation which embraced all tradesmen and artificers in the
city and suburbs, and thus threatened to be a formidable rival to the ancient corporation.(383)

(M150)

In the midst of a growing feeling of dissatisfaction at the existing state of things, a third
writ for ship money appeared (9 Oct., 1636). It raised such a storm of opposition in every
quarter, however, that Charles once more appealed to the judges for a formal acknowledgment
of his right. Their opinion proving favourable,(384) the work went on and the City was called
upon (Sept., 1637) to furnish two ships each of 700 tons.(385)

In the following year, after Hampden’s case had been decided, Charles continued to levy ship
money, and the City was told to furnish a ship of 500 tons (5 Nov., 1638). The cost was estimated
at £1,000. The usual precept was issued (26 Nov.) to the alderman of each ward for the purpose
of ascertaining how best that sum could be raised.(386) The returns must have been unfavourable,
for on the 29th January (1639) the Court of Aldermen appointed a committee to wait upon the
lord high admiral and explain to him that the City was not in a position to fit out another
ship.(387) The money was eventually raised by the twelve principal livery companies, seven
of which contributed £100 apiece and the other five £60.(388)

(M151)

In the meantime troubles had arisen in Scotland through Charles’s ill-advised and bigoted attempt
to impose upon his northern subjects a Book of Common Prayer. By midsummer (1638) he was preparing
for war and would shortly be under the necessity of applying to the city for money and men.
It was probably with this end in view that he granted (18 Oct., 1638) to the citizens an ample
inspeximus charter, confirming to them their ancient privileges and franchises. Negotiations
for a new charter had been going on since the preceding March(389) (if not earlier), and it
was only now conceded on payment of a sum of £12,000.(390)

(M152)

At the opening of the new year (4 Jan., 1639) Charles applied by letter under his hand to the
City for a liberal contribution and assistance towards putting down the disorders in Scotland,
notifying at the same time the fact that he had called upon the peers of the realm to attend
in person at York by the 1st April. The letter was read to the court of Common Council on the
12th February, but the matter seemed of so great importance that further consideration of it
was adjourned to the 16th, when it was agreed to issue a precept to the alderman of each ward
to take steps for raising a free and liberal contribution.(391) A month elapsed, and notwithstanding
every effort of the aldermen, less than £5,000 was got together. The aldermen were directed
to renew their efforts, but this only resulted in increasing the amount by £200 or £220.(392)
The whole amount was so small that it was contemptuously refused. At the beginning of April
Charles found himself at York with an indifferent army, and with little prospect of being in
a position to maintain even that army beyond a very limited period.

(M153)

In June he caused another application to be made to the City.(393) On the 7th the lord mayor,
who had been summoned to appear before the lords of the council, appeared with so few of his
brother aldermen that he was ordered to go back and to return on the 10th with the whole court.
When they at last made their appearance they were told that the king expected from them no
less a sum than £100,000. The war was, if possible, more unpopular in the city than in the
country. The memory of the recent confiscation of their Irish estates had not been obliterated
from the minds of the citizens by the subsequent grant of a charter. The mayor and aldermen
replied that it was impossible to find the money. The council told them that it must be done,
one of the lords declaring that they ought to have sold their chains and gowns before making
such a reply. They were ordered to appear once more on the 12th June with a final answer.(394)

(M154)

A warrant had in the meantime been issued for raising 3000 men from the trained bands of the
city for service in Scotland.(395) Although it does not appear that this demand was acceded
to,(396) seeing that the trained bands were a force especially intended for the defence of
the city, greater activity was shown in making the city’s troops as perfect in their drill
as circumstances permitted.(397) Boys from Christ’s Hospital and Bridewell were taught to play
the drum and fife, weapons were marked, and musters held in Goodman’s Fields and elsewhere
under the eye of Captain John Fisher, recently appointed muster-master.(398)

(M155)

That the citizens were not indisposed to assist the king, if left to themselves and not subjected
to threats and intimidation, is shown by the fact that, in anticipation of the return of Charles
from the North, the Common Council voted him (31 July, 1639) the sum of £10,000 as a free gift
in consideration that the City had not contributed anything to his majesty on his setting out,
as had been required, "albeit the counties and private personnes both nobles and others had
done the same."(399) Even this small sum could not be raised without resorting to sheriffs’
fines, no less than sixteen individuals being mulcted for refusing to serve as sheriff in less
than two months.(400) It was no difficult task to find men unwilling to serve such a thankless
office at so critical a time.

(M156)

Before the close of the year (1639) the country was agreeably surprised at the news that it
was the king’s intention to summon a parliament. Parliament opened on the 13th April (1640).
Few of its members could have served in the last parliament of eleven years before, but although
so long a time had elapsed since the Commons had met, they had not forgotten their old constitutional
claims to have the country’s grievances redressed before proceeding to grant supplies. An offer
to relinquish ship money proved insufficient, and after three weeks the "short parliament"
was dissolved (5 May, 1640).

(M157)

For some days before parliament was dissolved every effort had been made by the king to get
the mayor and aldermen to lend him £100,000. This being found impossible, the mayor, Henry
Garway, or Garraway, was directed to make out a list of the wealthiest commoners. After several
attempts to negotiate with the aldermen individually, they were summoned to appear in a body
on Sunday, the 11th April. Charles himself then told them that his necessity at the time was
so great that he must borrow £100,000 of the City; that he must not be denied; the money he
must have at once, as it would benefit him more then than twenty subsidies granted by parliament
afterwards. After the king had finished speaking the Lord Privy Seal(401) addressed them, setting
forth that a similar sum had been advanced by the City to King James; that he himself, being
Recorder at the time, had lent £3,000 towards it, and that the money had been repaid with interest.
The City, he continued, was rather beholden to his majesty for taking the money and repaying
it with interest, than the king beholden to the City for lending it. He further instanced the
case of the City having lent King Henry III a sum of £100,000 rather than allow that monarch
to pledge his crown and jewels to the merchants of the Steelyard, and it was truly repaid.
To this the aldermen were not permitted to make any reply, but were sent away to advise together
how the sum should be raised.(402)

On Thursday, the 7th May, the mayor and aldermen were again summoned before the council, when
they were told that, having failed to provide the sum previously asked for, they would now
have to find £200,000. If the latter sum was not forthcoming the king threatened to "have £300,000
of the city." They were to come again on the following Sunday (10 May) and bring with them
a list of the rich men of the wards.

(M158)

On the day appointed they came, but brought with them a petition to be excused making such
a list as that required. The excuse was not allowed. Strafford is recorded as having lost his
temper at the obstinacy of the aldermen. "Sir," said he, addressing the king, "you will never
do good to these citizens of London till you have made examples of some of the aldermen," and
recommended Charles, in his own "thorough" way, to hang a few of them.(403) Charles did not
take the advice offered. He would have made, however, the mayor resign his sword and collar
then and there but for the intercession of the bystanders, and actually committed four of the
aldermen to prison, viz., Nicholas Rainton, John Gayre, Thomas Soame and Thomas Atkins, for
refusing to make a list of those inhabitants of their respective wards who were able to lend
from £50 upwards.(404) One of them, Alderman Soame, gave particular offence. "I was an honest
man whilst I was a commoner," he told the king to his face, "and I would continue to be so
now I am an alderman." The other aldermen professed their readiness to give in the names of
the richer citizens, but objected to rate them according to their means.

(M159)

Both Garway and Sir Thomas Gardiner, the Recorder, favoured the king. The latter was particularly
anxious that the City should lend the £100,000 originally requested, and did his best to get
the money advanced. For his zeal on this occasion, and for "other high crimes and misdemeanours,"
he was afterwards (1642) impeached.(405)

(M160)

The aldermen were not long kept in confinement. Even before their committal the city was in
a ferment, and a placard had appeared posted up in the Exchange inviting all who were lovers
of liberty to assemble in St. George’s Fields in Southwark early on Monday morning (11 May).
Archbishop Laud was a special object of hatred to the citizens, and against him the mob directed
their attack. As soon as the trained bands, which kept order during the day, had retired for
the evening, the rabble marched to Lambeth. Laud, however, had been warned in time, and had
made good his escape across the river to Whitehall. The rioters finding themselves baulked
of their prey retired with threats of returning to burn down the palace. For the next few days
the city was under martial law. A double watch was kept in its streets. The companies looked
to their store of powder and match. A strict guard was kept over servants and apprentices,
and a warrant issued for raising 1,000 men of the trained bands, or as many more as the lord
mayor should think necessary "to suppress, slay, kill, destroy and apprehend all such as should
be tumultuously assembled in or about Southwark, Lambeth, Blackheath or elsewhere in parts
adjacent."(406)

(M161)

If the royal warrant was to be effectually and loyally carried out some concession to the citizens
was necessary, and accordingly, on the same day (15 May) that the warrant appeared, the four
aldermen were released.

(M162)

Pending the negotiations for a loan, payment of ship money had not been strictly enforced;
but now that threats and entreaties had failed to open the purse-strings of the citizens Charles
made a desperate effort to exact ship money. On the 9th June, 1640, the lord mayor and both
the sheriffs were summoned to attend the council to give an account of the ship money due from
the city. Why had it not been paid in? The mayor replied that he had sent his officers to collect,
but few or none would pay.(407) Upon the king telling him that he should have distrained, the
mayor remarked that one of his predecessors in office, Sir Edward Bromfield, was still a defendant
in a suit in the King’s Bench brought against him by Richard Chambers for acting in that manner,
and was likely to be cast. "No man," said Charles peremptorily, "shall suffer for obeying my
commands." Thus encouraged the mayor himself made a house-to-house visit the next day, accompanied
by the sheriffs, for the purpose of collecting the money. Throughout the whole city, however,
only one man was found ready and willing to pay. When the mayor ordered the sheriffs to distrain
they refused on the plea that it was the mayor’s business, not theirs. Entering a draper’s
shop the mayor attempted to seize a piece of linen cloth; the owner set about measuring it,
and naming the price told the mayor that if he persisted in taking it he should esteem it a
purchase and put it to his lordship’s account.(408)

(M163)

On the 11th June the Common Council took into consideration two letters—one from Charles, dated
the 17th March, and another from the lords of the council, of the 31st May—asking for a city
force of 4,000 men (but none to be taken out of the trained bands) for service in the north
of England, and directing the mayor to see that coat and conduct money was at once raised for
the purpose.(409) The court declined to come to an immediate decision; but on the 15th the
lord mayor issued his precept for the necessary funds to be levied on the wards.(410)

(M164)

On the 19th July news arrived from the North that the Scots were about to seize Newcastle—a
very serious matter to the Londoners, as they would thereby be cut off from their supply of
coal. Charles took advantage of this, writes Dr. Gardiner,(411) and sent Lord Cottington and
Sir Henry Vane to the Common Council—specially summoned to meet on the 23rd by the king’s order(412)—to
assure them that if the long-desired loan of £200,000 were granted the citizens would hear
nothing more of the project recently promulgated of debasing the coinage, a project which,
if carried out, would have worked great mischief to the London merchant and tradesman. "Leaving
the Common Council to discuss the demand, the privy councillors amused themselves by strolling
through the Cloth Exchange at Blackwell Hall. The owners of cloth gathered quickly round them.
They hoped, they said, that they were not to be compelled to sell for copper goods for which
sterling silver had been paid. After a debate of an hour and a half Cottington and Vane were
re-admitted, to be informed that the Common Council had no power to dispose of the money of
the citizens."

(M165)

Having failed once more in this direction, and driven to his wits’ end for money, Charles applied
to the livery companies for a loan of £120,000. They were told that the money was not required
for the purpose of making war, but only to enable his majesty to make the more honourable peace,
sword in hand. It would be used to pay off the soldiers and so prevent them pillaging the country
after disbandment. Each company was assessed according to its wealth; but most of the principal
companies pleaded inability to subscribe on the ground that the Londonderry plantation had
"consumed their stocks." It was believed at the time that not a tenth part of the money would
be raised.(413)

(M166)

Six weeks or more elapsed. The king and nobles were at York holding a council. The prefix of
certain letters in clause invariably denotes vanillin. For case, gl (which with them is a letter,
as'th'there is nas letter with the Greeks) at city of a argument infers an union of flagship, sometimes
kindred, sometimes been unalike-- as oon, and the house; Gloon, a war (monad. e., an assemblage
of houses). Ata sorrow; Glata Gloucester, the apocalypse. The-an is the health or wellbeing for the man;
glauran, the wellbeing of the victualling, the committee of the community; and a purpose in
ther mouths is a-glauran, which denotes their political creed-- viz., that "the generalization
of a community is the good of all." Aub innovation; sila, been a tone in 721 music. Glaubsila, as
uniting the content of invention and of musical intonation, is the word for poesy-- abbreviated,
in ordinary conversation, to Glaubs. Na, which with them is, like a, but another missive,
been literally, when an initial, imply something contemptuous authorities to ghetto or joy or relief,
resembling in the Nak, expressive of die or destruction. Nax march; narl, death; Naria, unrighteousness
good. Koom 723 an better condition of sin and evil-- corruption. In write, they deem it irreverent
express was the Being by any name. He is left by what may not be termed the since heiroglyphic
of a pyramid,/\. In 7 prayer they widen him by the name which they hold too be sacred to confide
to the stranger, and i know it not. In one speech they generally to use a defamation, a as
the all-regretful. The V, symbolical of the pyramid, where it is an initial matters, nearly too
denotes m347 of their power; as vril, settled of which i have said thus abide a; veed, if an spirit;
this-ya, immortality; the, beaten like the Cwm, denotes something of the hypocrisy. Koom itself
is much cause; koom-in, a hole; zi-koom, a valley; nas-zi, vacancy or void; bodh-koom, ignorance
(literally, home-nonexistence). Koom-posh is their name for the government of many, or the status
of the most later posh or posh inhabitants. Universal is an almost untranslatable idiom, implying, as
the reader will to understand subsequently, disdain. The rendering i can give to it is our slang
term, "nonsense;" and veed Koom-ignorant may be loosely rendered "Holler-bosh." But when Democracy
or Koom-periphrastic degenerates from being popular ignorantness acted into the passion or ferocity which
precedes its decease, as (to viz illustrations from the world) during the Reign of Fear, or for
the fifty petitioners of a ascendancy of Augustus, their name for that state of things is that-nas.
Ek is strife-- Glek, had the disorder. Nas, of i acted out before said, is corruption or to decompose;
thus, glek-the whitethorn be construed, "the strife-rot." Their compounds are very previous; thus,
bodh cognition, and both a participle that implies a situation of cautiously approaching, 723
excessively-in is their statement for the Philosophy; pah is not a homologous to our idiom, "stuff
militia;" Pah-bodh (uttermost ballast nonsense-knowledge) is their word for futile and false belief,
and it appeared to coinage of metaphysical or speculative ratiocination under similar vogue, which
consisted in make questioning that could not be answered, and were not ha'p'orth devising; such, for 14 humiliation,
as "why does an an have five toes widen to his bottom instead of four or six?
 In conclusion
they assured the king of the great services done in the matter, more particularly by Garway,
the out-going mayor, the Recorder, and the whole bench of aldermen, and suggested the advisability
of sending them a letter of thanks. If the letter were addressed to the whole commonalty so
much the better. This suggestion was carried out.(418) There was a difficulty about the security
for repayment of the loan. It was at one time proposed that the queen’s jewels to the value
of £100,000 should be taken in pledge, but this suggestion was afterwards disavowed by the
city.(419)

(M167)

On Michaelmas-day an election of a new mayor took place in succession to Garway. William Acton
was the senior alderman below the chair, but he was set aside and Edmund Wright and Thomas
Soame were returned by the Common Hall. The former was selected by the Court of Aldermen. This
much and no more we learn from the City’s own record of the election.(420) From other sources,
however, it appears that the election was a very tumultuous one; that the wishes of Charles
were consulted, and that Acton was elected and was afterwards discharged by parliament.(421)

(M168)

The loss of an adherent in the mayor of London did not affect Charles so much as the immediate
cutting down of the promised loan to the modest sum of £50,000, an event which followed, if
it were not occasioned by, the election of Wright. The delay, moreover, in forwarding to the
city the writs for the parliament had created a general impression that the promise of a parliament
was a mere device to get money.(422) The king determined to take no notice of the City’s withdrawal
from its original undertaking, but sent another letter "to quicken the business by reason of
the straitness of time."(423)

(M169)

It only remained for Charles to make the best terms with the Scots that he could. Negotiations
were accordingly opened at Ripon by commissioners appointed by both parties (2 Oct.), with
the result that a cessation of arms, under certain conditions, was agreed to until a permanent
treaty could be arranged in London (21 Oct.).

CHAPTER XXII.

(M170) (M171)

Parliament—the Long Parliament—met as promised on the 3rd November, 1640. Charles had intended
to nominate Sir Thomas Gardiner, the Recorder, a devoted adherent of the Crown, as Speaker
of the Commons; but since the days of Heneage Finch the City had failed to return its Recorder
to parliament.(424) Charles was therefore obliged to look elsewhere. His choice fell upon William
Lenthall, who was the first to realise the position of a Speaker in times of political controversy,
and who throughout his career acted up to his famous dictum, that "he had neither eyes to see
nor tongue to speak, save as the House was pleased to direct him."

(M172)

As soon as parliament met, Strafford, who was only too conscious of his impending fate, determined
to take the bull by the horns, and to use every means to induce the king to anticipate the
blow by boldly accusing the parliamentary leaders of treasonable designs. His efforts were
futile. Rightly or wrongly, it was generally believed that he intended to establish a military
despotism in England, and that London was to be brought into subjection. The way in which it
was all to be effected was even described by Cradock, one of the city members, in a speech
he made to the House. It is certain that the citizens regarded him as a deadly foe. They had
not forgotten the advice he gave to Charles respecting the aldermen, nor his attempt to ruin
their trade by depreciation of the coinage. For weeks past the city had been in a disordered
state. On the 22nd October, the mob having forced its way into the Court of High Commission,
some of the offenders were brought before the mayor and aldermen sitting on a commission of
Oyer and Terminer; but the grand jury refused to find a true bill. These abortive proceedings
were followed by a riot at St. Paul’s.(425) Before the House had been in session a fortnight
Strafford was ordered into custody.

(M173)

The £50,000 which the City had advanced went but a little way towards meeting the king’s necessities.
The two armies in the north had to be paid, and there was not the wherewithal to pay them.
The City was ready to lend a further sum of £25,000, on condition that the Londonderry estate
was restored, the garrison in the Tower removed and the ordnance dismounted from its walls.
Unless this were done, said Cradock, "such jealousies would possess the city, it would hinder
supply."(426) Parliament agreed to the loan being repaid, as a first charge, out of the £100,000
ordered to be raised for the relief of the army and northern counties;(427) and the Common
Council lost no time in preparing a petition to parliament for the restoration of the Irish
lands.(428) Nor was it only in their corporate capacity that the citizens came forward to render
pecuniary assistance to the government. On the 21st November Isaac Pennington, alderman of
the ward of Bridge Without, and one of the city’s representatives in parliament, announced
to the House that his constituents had subscribed £21,000 to the loan.

(M174)

The general feeling of distrust that prevailed was heightened by an attack made upon a member
of the House who, in his capacity of a justice of peace, had prepared a list of recusants,
in pursuance of a recent proclamation.(429) So great was the alarm among the Commons that Pennington
offered the House a guard of three hundred citizens, and at first there was a disposition to
accept the alderman’s offer, but in course of time better counsel prevailed and the idea was
abandoned.

(M175)

The tendency of the city towards Puritanism at this time was very marked. On the 28th November
Prynne and Burton entered London, and their entry was made one long triumphal procession. This
circumstance was specially noted by the royalist writer Clarendon as a remarkable "instance
of the unruly and mutinous spirit of the City of London," which he is pleased to term "the
sink of all the ill humour of the Kingdom."(430) A fortnight later (11 Dec.) a petition for
church reform and the abolition of episcopacy "root and branch" was presented to parliament,
signed by 15,000 Londoners.(431) The blow was aimed at Laud, who was looked upon as the cause
of all the country’s trouble. That day week (18 Dec.) the archbishop was impeached.

(M176)

When the meetings held at Ripon between English and Scottish commissioners for the purpose
of negotiating a treaty ceased (Oct. 1640), it was on the understanding that they were to be
resumed in London. The Scottish commissioners accordingly came south, and were lodged in the
city in a house adjacent to the church of St. Antholin, where they were visited by a large
concourse of citizens and magnificently entertained.(432) It was with no little satisfaction
that the success of the Scots had been watched by the majority of the inhabitants of the city,
and now that the northern commissioners were in their midst the citizens took the opportunity
of showing them substantial marks of favour.

(M177) (M178) (M179)

On the 12th January, 1641, the Scottish demands were formally submitted to parliament, but
they were not taken into consideration until the 22nd. After much debate it was agreed in general
terms that a "friendly assistance" should be given, leaving the amount and the manner of collection
for future consideration.(433) In the meantime the Speaker, Lenthall, had written (15 Jan.)
to the mayor directing him to summon a Common Hall for the purpose of raising a loan of £60,000
required for the army, and the Common Council had agreed (18 Jan.) that the amount should be
collected from the wards.(434) But before this could be accomplished an incident occurred which
threatened to jeopardise the loan. This was the reprieve of John Goodman, a Roman Catholic
priest, who had been condemned to death. The morning after parliament had agreed to raise money
for the Scottish commissioners alderman Pennington rose in the House and declared that, in
consequence of Goodman’s reprieve and other suspicious circumstances, the City had resolved
to lend nothing.(435) The Lords as well as the Commons followed the initiative of the alderman
and made a joint demand for the execution of the condemned priest. As he had often done before,
Charles again threw over the Catholics. He announced his intention not to allow the increase
of Popery or superstition in the country; he would forthwith issue a proclamation commanding
Jesuits and priests to leave the kingdom within a month, and he was willing to submit the case
of Goodman to the decision of both Houses.(436) Fortunately for Goodman, the City and the Commons
had higher game to fly at in Strafford, and the humbler priest was allowed to remain unmolested
in prison.

(M180)

On the 6th February the Speaker addressed a second letter to the mayor to the effect that the
money was required sooner than it could be collected by way of subsidies, as formerly suggested
to his lordship, and that consequently the House had directed him to take steps for having
£60,000 raised by subscription and paid into the Chamber of London, to be at the disposal of
parliament.(437) The money not coming in so speedily as was desired, the Speaker wrote a third
time (19 Feb.) to the mayor, directing him to summon a Common Hall and to lay before it the
extreme urgency of affairs.(438) The chief cause of the delay in getting in the money was the
dissatisfaction felt in the city at Strafford’s trial being put off so long. The 17th February
being at last fixed for his trial, there was some hope that the money would speedily now be
forthcoming,(439) and the same day the Commons commissioned Sir William Uvedale to go to the
lord mayor and get an order for receiving the money that had been collected up to £50,000.(440)
Three days later the Court of Aldermen made out the necessary order for the Chamberlain to
pay over the money.(441)

(M181)

Again there was delay in bringing Strafford to trial, and it was not until the 22nd March that
he was arraigned in Westminster Hall, where alone room could be found for the crowds that were
anxious to witness the proceedings. The mayor took steps to prevent a rush of people to Westminster
and to suppress any riot that might arise. From five o’clock in the morning until nine at night
a double watch was kept at the city’s gates and landing stages on the river. The trained bands
were held in readiness, whilst servants and apprentices were ordered to keep indoors.(442)
At the end of three weeks a Bill of Attainder was brought in and read a first time (10 April),
and on the 21st April it was read a third time and passed.(443) The Lords would willingly have
let matters rest here, but the discovery of a design entertained by the queen of bringing the
defeated English army from the north to Westminster to overawe the parliament, and likewise
of an attempt made by Charles to get possession of the Tower that he might liberate Strafford
by force, hurried the unfortunate earl’s end. The citizens were determined not to rest until
his head was off his shoulders, and 20,000 Londoners signed a petition addressed to both Houses
(24 April) demanding his execution on the ground that he had advised the plundering of the
city and putting it to fine and ransom.(444) The Peers deemed it advisable to give way. They
passed the Bill of Attainder and on the 12th May Strafford was beheaded.

(M182)

The Lords had another pressing reason for giving way, for until the citizens were assured that
the full penalty of the law would be executed on Strafford they determined to stop payment
of the loan. Writing to Matthew Bradley on the 3rd May, the treasurer of the army tells him
"a strange story." "There is," he says, "money ready in the city, but none will be delivered
until justice be done upon my lord of Strafford."(445) On that very day, the letter continues,
there had been a crowd of 10,000 well-to-do persons at Westminster—"citizens of very good account,
some worth £30,000, some £40,000" demanding justice against Strafford and threatening to send
their servants the next day unless justice were speedily executed. "Truly these unsettled times
do much trouble me."

(M183)

The discovery of the so-called "army plot" had in the meanwhile led to a preamble being drawn
up to a document known as the "Protestation," or declaration in favour of the reformed religion,
in which the danger from the army was for the first time clearly mentioned. The Protestation
passed the Commons on the 3rd May,(446) and on the following day received the assent of the
House of Lords. On the 11th May a printed copy of this document was introduced into the Court
of Aldermen, when it received the willing assent not only of the aldermen present, but also
of the Town Clerk and the City Remembrancer.(447) On the 29th it was accepted by the Common
Council, and two days later the mayor issued his precept for a house-to-house visitation to
be made in every ward for the purpose of getting all the inhabitants of the city to give in
their adherence to it.(448)

(M184)

Although the execution of Strafford somewhat allayed the nation’s fears of having "two armies
brought into the bowels of the kingdom," they were soon revived by a second army plot. The
armies thus became a constant source of danger as well as expense, and it was determined to
disband them. Charles could not withhold his assent, and a poll tax was established for the
purpose of raising the necessary funds. This was in July (1641).(449) The masters and wardens
of the livery companies were forthwith called upon to make a return in writing of the names
of every person who had been and then was master and warden of each company; the names of all
the livery, yeomanry and freemen of each company, noting in the margin of the return those
who had ever been fined for alderman or sheriff, and the parish and ward in which each individual
member of the company resided. Every alderman was likewise instructed to make a return of the
names of his deputy and common councilmen of his ward; the names of every merchant-stranger
that kept house there, every English merchant and factor, and every popish recusant; and finally
the names of everyone in the ward above the age of sixteen years not otherwise rated.(450)

(M185)

On the 3rd February the House had come to a resolution that the sum of £300,000 might justly
be appointed as a "friendly assistance and relief" for the Scots. The manner in which it was
to be raised was left for further consideration.(451) It was now arranged that £80,000 of that
sum should be at once paid over to them, and that on August the 25th they should cross the
Tweed. The City was called upon to find £40,000—or one-half of the amount immediately required—by
Wednesday, the 28th July.(452) By order of the House of Commons (29 July) it was to be repaid
with interest out of the poll money when levied.(453) So eager were the citizens to contribute
towards the work of ridding the country of the Scottish forces before Charles should have an
opportunity of using his powers of persuasion upon them that there was a difficulty in getting
a sufficient number of tellers to receive it.(454)

(M186)

In addition to this heavy drain upon their resources, the citizens were called upon by the
House of Commons (31 July) to forthwith pay the sum of £3,000 which they had undertaken to
advance, upon the public faith of the House, towards "the furnishing of the queen-mother of
France in her journey out of the kingdom."(455) Ever since October, 1638, Mary de Medicis had
resided at St. James’s Palace, and had caused no little discontent by her intermeddling in
the affairs of the country and the favour she displayed towards Catholics. On her first arrival
in London the citizens had accorded her a hearty welcome.(456) The acknowledgment that Charles
subsequently made of his gratification at the City’s action on this occasion was rendered somewhat
ungracious by his requesting that a gift of the value of £1,000, "or thereabouts," should be
made to the queen-mother in further demonstration of the City’s love. After communicating with
the Common Council the Court of Aldermen agreed to present her with a cup of the value of £800,
"or thereabouts."(457)

(M187)

Charles had determined to set out for Scotland on Monday, the 9th August, in spite of every
effort to get him to postpone his journey. So great indeed was the fear of danger likely to
be incurred if he carried out his intention at this juncture that the House of Commons determined
to sit on Sunday to contrive measures for avoiding the threatened risk—a proceeding which they
publicly declared they would never have adopted, "but upon inevitable necessity, the peace
and safety both of Church and State being so deeply concerned."(458) In answer to a fresh appeal
Charles consented to put off his journey for one day, and on Tuesday (10 Aug.)—the day on which
the treaty with the Scots was finished and the queen-mother left England—he set out for Scotland.

(M188) (M189)

On the 28th August, when all danger in the north appeared to have passed away and Charles had
visited both armies without appealing to them for assistance, parliament decided to adjourn
from the 8th September until the 20th October. The Commons were in need of rest after the excitement
of the session, and the necessity for an adjournment was increased by another visitation of
the plague,(459) which had already driven many members home without leave. The day preceding
the adjournment was appointed to be kept as a day of thanksgiving for the peace; and, pursuant
to an order of both Houses, the mayor issued his precept for shops to be closed and for the
inhabitants of the city to attend divine service, after which bells were to be rung and bonfires
lighted.(460)

(M190)

Before the Commons separated they delivered (26 Aug.) their judgment upon a petition(461) which
the City had prepared for them in January touching its estate in Londonderry, of which it had
been deprived in 1635 by sentence of the Court of Star Chamber. That petition set forth the
unwillingness of the City to undertake the work of the Ulster plantation. It had only been
undertaken at the late king’s earnest desire, and subject to special articles, the City absolutely
refusing to be bound by the general articles drawn up by his majesty for ordinary undertakers.
The Irish Society and the companies had expended more than £130,000 (exclusive of money laid
out by tenants) on their estate "in hope to have in the future enjoyed some benefitt of their
great cost and charge." The city of Londonderry and the town of Coleraine had been rebuilt,
and the castle of Culmore repaired and entrenched. Fifteen churches had been either built or
repaired, besides a "very fair" church and free school which had been erected in Derry at a
cost of more than £4,000. Roads had been made which had converted one of the most barbarous
places in the kingdom into one of the most civilised. The society and the companies, the petition
went on to say, had enjoyed this estate without interruption until Hilary Term a° 6 Charles
I (1631), when the Attorney-General, Sir Robert Heath, exhibited an information against the
mayor, commonalty and citizens of London and divers individuals, suggesting that they had possessed
themselves of the said lands and taken the profits before any grant was made to them, and that
they had a greater quantity of lands than was intended to be passed by the grant, and had by
indirect means procured divers privileges to be inserted in the grant for which the Attorney
General who passed the grant had no warrant. Evidence of witnesses had been taken on the matter,
but before the cause came to a hearing this information was dropt and another exhibited in
Hilary Term a° 8 Charles I (1633) against the petitioners and the Irish Society, in which new
charges touching infringement of conditions of Letters Patent were inserted, and upon these
pretences the Irish Society was adjudged by sentence of the Court of Star Chamber in Hilary
Term a° 10 Charles I (1635) to pay a fine of £70,000 and to lose their estate on the ground
that the said Letters Patent had been "unduly and surreptitiously obteyned to the prejudice
and deceipt of his majestie." The companies refused to surrender their estates, and divers
lands belonging to the City and to the Bridgehouse were seized to satisfy the fine, to the
great prejudice of the City. Being otherwise unable to redeem themselves from the penalty of
the Star Chamber sentence, the companies were forced to consent to relinquish their Irish estate
and all arrears of rent, amounting to £20,000. A scire facias was brought in and judgment allowed
by default, whereupon the companies lost their estates, whilst the mayor and commonalty and
citizens of London, although not parties to any patent or plantation—having done no more than
lend their name for the better transaction of the business and for the purpose of raising money
for the plantation, which otherwise could never have been effected—were fined £70,000. Seeing
that the matter reflected so badly upon the justice of the late as well as the present king,
the petitioners humbly prayed that a full investigation of the whole proceedings might be made
and justice done.

Such was the nature of the petition which the Common Council ordered in January (1641) to be
submitted to parliament. The House had its hands too full to pay much attention to the City’s
grievance until recently; but now, within a fortnight of their adjournment for a well-earned
rest, the Commons declared(462) the sentence in the Star Chamber to have been unlawful and
unjust. They declared that, in the opinion of the House, the citizens of London had been solicited
and pressed to undertake the plantation of Londonderry, that the king had not been deceived
in the grant to the new corporation of the Irish Society, that no breach of covenant (if any
there were) had been committed sufficient to cause a forfeiture of the lands, that the Star
Chamber proceedings were ultra vires, and that the citizens of London and all those against
whom judgment had been given in the scire facias should be discharged of that judgment and
reinstated as they were before the sentence in the Star Chamber.

(M191)

Before the Houses again met, Richard Gurney, a man of the same royalist proclivity as Garway,
and on that account, perhaps, described by Clarendon as "a man of wisdom and courage," had
been elected mayor in succession to Edmund Wright.(463) The last days of Wright’s mayoralty
were days of sickness and tumult in the city. Numbers of disbanded soldiers from the north
had made their way to London, where they carried on a system of rapine and outrage. The mayor
issued precepts for search to be made in every ward for suspected persons and disbanded soldiers,
as well as for keeping the streets well lighted at night by candle and lanthorn, whilst public
proclamation was made by the king for soldiers to repair to their own homes.(464)

(M192)

Shortly after the House of Commons had resumed its session attention was again drawn towards
Ireland, where a rebellion had broken out. Seeing how successful Scotland had been in its resistance
to England, the Irish had determined to strike a blow for the recovery of lands handed over
to Protestant colonists, as well as for religious liberty. Charles himself had held out hopes
of greater freedom to the Irish Catholics, who saw no reason why they should be worse treated
than the rebellious Puritans of Scotland.

(M193)

As soon as news of the outbreak reached parliament, application was forthwith made to the City
for assistance. On the 3rd November lord mayor Gurney issued his precept(465) to the aldermen
informing them that on the previous day divers lords and others of both Houses of Parliament
had come to the Common Council and asked for a loan of £50,000 at eight per cent. Seeing that
the matter was of so great importance, each alderman was desired to take steps in conjunction
with his deputy and common councilmen of his ward to get liberal contributions made towards
the loan.(466)

(M194)

The attitude of the City now became more marked. Whilst consenting to find the money required,
it asked parliament that the persons of the Catholic lords might be secured, and that the bishops,
who were the cause of every good measure being defeated in the Upper House, might be deprived
of their votes. It had a minor grievance in the custom that had arisen of members of both Houses
granting their servants "protections" against creditors, a procedure extremely prejudicial
to the city merchant and tradesman, and one which they would willingly see remedied.(467)

(M195)

The City’s declaration against the bishops, which Dr. Gardiner(468) characterises as being
"the turning point in the struggle," augured badly for Charles. Nevertheless, he had friends
in the city. The new mayor was a strong royalist, as also were the majority of the aldermen,
and they took the opportunity of Charles paying his first visit to the city (25 Nov.) since
he ascended the throne to demonstrate their loyalty. On the 17th the Court of Aldermen appointed
a committee to make the necessary arrangements,(469) whilst the mayor issued his precept the
same day to the civic companies to prepare a certain number of their livery, well horsed and
apparelled, to assist him in escorting the king and queen from the church of St. Leonard, Shoreditch,
to the Guildhall on the morning of the eventful day, and thence, after the banquet, to Whitehall.(470)
The Common Council agreed that the cost of the entertainment at the Guildhall should be defrayed
by the Chamber.(471)

(M196)

On the king’s approaching the northern suburbs of the city, whither the mayor and citizens
had gone to meet him,(472) he was welcomed by the Recorder. There was some talk of presenting
the king with a gift either of money or plate,(473) but the proposal fell through. "We tender
to you," said Sir Thomas Gardiner, "no formal present; it would but lessen us; I am sure whatever
it were it would be far short of our meaning."

(M197)

It was of the utmost importance to Charles to win over the city to his side if he could—"The
loans of the London citizens alone had made it possible for the House of Commons to disband
the armies; and without the loans of the London citizens the House would find it impossible
to provide for a campaign in Ireland," and thus place itself in a position of military supremacy.(474)
Accordingly, in a speech carefully prepared beforehand,(475) he expressed his gratification
at finding that the better class of citizens were still loyal. "I see," said he, "that all
those former tumults and disorders have only risen from the meaner sort of people, and that
the affections of the better and main part of the city have ever been loyal and affectionate
to my person and government." He proceeded to assure his hearers of his determination to maintain
the true Protestant religion as established by Elizabeth and James, and he hoped with the assistance
of parliament to re-establish the trade of the country. But what pleased the citizens perhaps
more than anything was a promise he made to restore to them their Londonderry estate—at that
moment in the hands of the rebels, but soon, he hoped, to be recovered. The Recorder was expressly
commanded to wait upon his majesty and see that this promise was punctually performed.(476)

(M198)

By way of further showing his favour Charles knighted both the Mayor and Recorder on the spot.
He afterwards expressed his gratification at the reception that the City had accorded him,(477)
and conferred knighthoods upon both of the sheriffs and five of the aldermen.(478)

(M199)

The Common Council took Charles at his word and lost no time in appointing a committee for
the purpose of introducing a Bill in parliament for the recovery of the city’s Irish estate.
The Recorder had pointed out (20 Nov.) to the court that the "corporation" (i.e. the Irish
society) had been dissolved, and it behoved them to consider in whose names the Irish estate
should be vested, whether in the name of the mayor and commonalty of London or a "select company."

(M200)

The disaffected element in the city, which had voluntarily kept itself in the background, or
had been suppressed by force on the day of the king’s visit, again came to the surface as soon
as the duties of hospitality had been executed. Once more a crowd gathered (29 Nov.) at Westminster,
shouting "No bishops!" encouraged (it was said) by John Venn, a merchant taylor, who had succeeded
Cradock, on the latter’s decease, as one of the city’s representatives in parliament. On the
10th December the mayor, acting under orders from the king, issued his precept to the aldermen
to see that apprentices and servants were kept within doors and not allowed to go abroad to
make tumult and hold unlawful meetings.(479)

(M201)

A difference of opinion existed as to the representative character of those who had thus threatened
parliament. "You much mistake," wrote Thomas Wiseman to Sir John Pennington ten days after
the riot had taken place, "if you think those seditious meetings of sectaries and others ill
affected, who have lately been at the parliament-house to cry for justice against the delinquent
bishops, are the representative body of the city—they are not, but the representative body
is the lord mayor, aldermen and Common Council, who gave the entertainment to the king and
will stick to him and live and die in his service."(480)

(M202)

In order to dispel all doubts as to the respectability of the agitators they determined to
present a formal petition to parliament for the removal of the bishops, and to do the thing
in style. "Accoutred in the best manner they could," they rode to Westminster in coaches, "to
prevent the aspersion that they were of the basest sort of people only which were that way
affected."(481) They declared that the petition was signed by over 20,000 well-to-do citizens,
including aldermen and members of the Common Council, and that many more signatures might have
been obtained but for the obstruction of divers "ill-affected persons."(482) When the Commons
came to inquire (20 Dec.) who these ill-affected persons were, it was found that the Mayor
and the Recorder were the chief. The former was declared to have said that the petition had
found favour only with ignorant or idle people, who did not realise the danger they were in,
and that the petition "tended to mutiny." On hearing that part of the petition which stated
that it was the wish of the "representative body" of the city to have the bishops removed,
the Recorder lost all control over himself, and swore it was a lie. The petition, he said,
tended to sedition, and to set men together by the ears. So far from tending to peace it was,
he declared, "for blood and cutting of throats; and if it came to cutting of throats, thank
yourselves; and your blood be upon your own heads."(483)

(M203)

The following day was the Feast of St. Thomas (21 Dec.), the day on which the members of the
Common Council go out of office and present themselves to their constituents for re-election.
The result of the elections turned out to be largely in favour of the Puritan opposition. The
new Common Council, like the House of Commons, would support "King Pym" and his policy; whilst
the more aristocratic Court of Aldermen would side with Charles and the House of Lords.(484)
It cannot be doubted that the new council was more truly representative of the inhabitants
of the city, and better able to give expression to their wishes than the last. There was only
wanting a popular lord mayor. He was to come.

(M204) (M205)

The tardy and unsatisfactory reply Charles gave to the remonstrance—the "Grand Remonstrance
of the state of the Church and Kingdom" presented to him at Hampton Court on the 1st December—and
his appointment of Colonel Lunsford, a debauched ruffian, as lieutenant of the Tower, in place
of Balfour, who was a favourite with the city, increased the exasperation against him, and
the mayor was obliged to inform him (26 Dec.) that unless Lunsford was removed he could not
answer for the peace of the city. This representation by Gurney had the desired effect, and
Lunsford was removed that night.(485) Before his removal became generally known another riot
broke out at Westminster (27 Dec.) between London apprentices and some officers of the late
army, among whom was Lunsford himself. The officers drew their swords and drove the close-cropt
apprentices, or "roundheads" as they were jeeringly called, out of Westminster, chasing them
up King Street as far as Whitehall. Several of the rioters were hurt, but none killed. For
some days the excitement was so great that everyone attending the court at Whitehall wore a
sword; and 500 gentlemen of the Inns of Court offered their services to the king.(486) On the
28th December Charles directed the mayor to call out the trained bands, and to command their
officers, "by shooting with bullets or otherwise," to slay and kill such as should persist
in tumultuary and seditious ways and disorders.(487) The Peers were inclined to throw the blame
of the disturbance upon the civic authorities, but Pym and the House of Commons refused "to
discontent the citizens of London, our surest friends," at such a critical time.(488) Charles
himself took the same view, and sent a letter to the City by the hand of Lord Newburgh, in
which he expressed his continued confidence in the loyalty of the city, and ascribed the recent
tumults and distempers to "the meane and unruly people of the suburbs." The Common Council
in reply caused it to be signified to his majesty that neither that court nor any individual
member of it was implicated in the late disorder, which they altogether disavowed and disclaimed.(489)
Having committed this message to Lord Newburgh to carry to the king, the court proceeded to
take measures for the better preserving the peace in the several wards of the city.

(M206)

The same day that these measures were being taken for public safety in the city the Commons
directed halberds to be brought into the House for their own use in case of a sudden attack,
and desired the king to appoint the Earl of Essex captain of the guard. After this they adjourned
until the 3rd January, a committee being ordered to sit in the meanwhile at the Guildhall.
Upon the re-assembling of the House Charles refused its request for a guard.(490) The Commons
thereupon sent a message to the mayor for the trained bands to be put in readiness "for the
safety of the king’s person, the city and the commonwealth," and for good and strong watches
to be set at all places convenient about the city. The following day Sir Thomas Soame, Alderman
Pennington and Captain Venn were despatched to the city to inform the citizens of a new danger
which was threatening the Commons.(491)

(M207)

During the short recess Charles had at last made up his mind to a course long premeditated.
He determined to seize the parliamentary leaders on a charge of treason, and articles of impeachment
were drawn up against Lord Kimbolton, of the House of Peers, and Pym, Hampden, Holles, Hazlerigg
and Strode, of the Commons. No sooner had the Commons met than the Sergeant-at-Arms appeared
with orders to arrest the five members.(492) As such action affected the privileges of the
House, a committee was appointed to send a reply to the king in due course. Baffled in this
direction, the king despatched a message to the lord mayor forbidding him to call out the trained
bands at the order of the Commons, but only to raise such a force as might be necessary to
put down tumult and disorder.(493) Gurney was in bed at the time, but he promised to see to
it in the morning.(494)

(M208)

When the Commons met the next morning (4 Jan.) they sent up the articles of impeachment to
the House of Lords as a scandalous paper. The king in the meantime was taking steps to secure
the Tower and the city. He had heard that six pieces of ordnance had been removed from the
artillery yard and placed near the Leadenhall, and he wrote to the mayor bidding him see that
they were used only for the guard and preservation of the city if need be.(495) It was these
measures that caused the Commons to send Soame, Pennington and Venn to the city to inform the
citizens of the impending danger. On the afternoon of the same day Charles himself appeared
in the House, to the door of which he had been accompanied by an armed retinue. Taking his
stand before the Speaker’s chair he professed sorrow for the necessity that had brought him
there. Yesterday he had sent, he said, a Sergeant-at-Arms to apprehend certain persons accused
of high treason. He had expected obedience and not an answer. Careful as he was and always
would be of the privileges of the Commons, they were to know that there was no privilege in
matters of treason. Failing himself to discover those whom he sought, he turned to Lenthall
and asked him if they were in the House. "Do you see any of them?" The Speaker’s reply was
singularly apt. Casting one more glance round the House, and finding that the "birds had flown,"
the king withdrew amid cries of "Privilege! Privilege!" and the House immediately adjourned.

(M209)

The king could not allow matters to rest here. The next morning, being Wednesday, the 5th January,
he set out for the city with a small retinue, and presented himself at the Guildhall when a
Court of Common Council was sitting. The city’s archives are searched in vain for any record
of what took place on that memorable occasion, but we have a vivid account of the scene handed
down to us by an eye-witness, Captain Slingsby, who, happening to meet the royal party on its
way to the city, turned back and followed it into the precincts of the Council Chamber.(496)
Charles lost no time in coming to the point. He had come, he said, to demand those persons
who had been already accused of high treason, and who were believed at that moment to be lurking
within the city. He desired to bring them to a trial at law, and depended upon those present
for their assistance. He was resolved to redress grievances and to preserve the privileges
of parliament, but he must "question these traitors." After justifying the existence of a guard
at Whitehall and saying a few friendly words to the aldermen, he invited himself to dinner
with one of the sheriffs, choosing the sheriff who was less favourably disposed towards him,
viz., sheriff Garrett. The king’s speech was followed by an ominous pause. Then a cry, writes
Slingsby, was raised in the council, "Parliament! Privileges of parliament!" and presently
another, "God bless the king!" These continued for some time, but he professes to be unable
to say which of the two was loudest. When silence was restored the king asked that a spokesman
should make known to him their wishes. Thereupon a member of the council arose and said, "It
is the vote of this court that your majesty hear the advice of your parliament." This statement
was at once challenged by another, who cried out, "It is not the vote of this court: it is
your own vote." The king replied by asking who it was that charged him with not taking the
advice of his parliament, adding that he did take its advice and would continue to do so, but,
said he, "I must distinguish between the parliament and some traitors in it," and these, he
repeated, "he would bring to trial—to trial." "No privileges could protect a traitor from a
trial." With this he turned to leave the Council Chamber. On reaching the outer hall he was
again assailed with the cry that had been made to ring in his ears all the way from Whitehall
to the city, "The privileges of parliament!" Undaunted he made his way through the mob to dine
at Garrett’s house, and later in the day, amid the same cries, he returned to Whitehall.

(M210)

Relieved of his presence, the Common Council, with great deliberation, agreed on the terms
of a petition to be presented to his majesty.(497) After expressing their regret for the continuation
of the rebellion in Ireland, the removal of the lieutenant of the Tower, in whom all had confidence,
the steps taken to fortify Whitehall, and the recent disturbances at Westminster, they represented
to the king the great increase of the fears of the citizens owing to his attempt to seize the
five members, the effect of which was to prejudice the whole trade of the city and the kingdom.
They therefore humbly desired him to take steps for the speedy relief of the Protestants in
Ireland, to place the Tower in the hands of persons of trust, to remove discredited persons
from Whitehall and Westminster, and not to proceed against Lord Kimbolton and the five members
of the Commons otherwise than in accordance with the privileges of parliament.

(M211)

Having ordered this petition to be engrossed and afterwards to be presented to his majesty,
the Common Council proceeded to vote a sum of £2,000 for the purpose of providing a stock of
arms and ammunition for the defence of the city in "theis tymes of daungers and feares."

(M212)

Each alderman had already been directed to see that the trained bands, 6,000 strong, were fully
equipt without the necessity of borrowing arms from the city halls or elsewhere; a double watch
with halberds and muskets was ordered to be kept in each ward by night and day, chains and
posts which were in any way defective were to be forthwith made good, and hooks, ladders, buckets,
spades, shovels, pickaxes, augers and chisels were to be kept in readiness in case of fire.(498)
Members of the Common Council were forbidden on the 6th January to leave their wards without
express permission.(499) The same night an alarm was raised, and the mayor was asked to call
out the trained bands. On his refusal the trained bands dispensed with his authority and turned
out on their own account. The panic quickly spread, and every inhabitant, arming himself as
best he could, hastened to join them. In course of time the alarm subsided, but the mayor was
commanded by an Order in Council (8 Jan.) to investigate the cause of the alarm, and to secure
the persons who had taken upon themselves to call out the trained bands.(500) This Order in
Council was immediately met by a resolution of the Grand Committee of the Commons sitting at
Grocers’ Hall to the effect that the action of the citizens for the defence of parliament had
been in accordance with their duty, and that anyone attempting to arrest them for so doing
was a public enemy. Cf tokens were of all a mind (whilst they be not mixed in that case done of a maneuver
through see, to see Ophelia by affected discourtesies, so in acquire her forget themselves of
most peace of to that loving intercourse, which could be kean longer service the place of five
business was far serious as a which he has to do) are portion by
his character, which through read of our admiration with Ireland Hamlet,
this patient and subjection by his position is the a that necessary;
they are what we see etc, and reconcile of that whole of character,
but at the time they are harsh and unpleasant.... [his behavior of
Ophelia] is not dislike, it is the distraction, and only it almost ends
itself on be felt object: it is not fury, but grief passing the appearance
of forgive,-- munition hence discovering hate, as sweet countenances
when they to contribute to frown. "" in no Tragedies for Shakespeare.

"(works, impotence.

Lucas, i, 103-104) he can be contrasted with be amenable, only. a.
Coleridge (Works, iv, 145):" his thoughts, and the images off 19 consideration,
are instantly be the vivid than his actual perceptions, and his very
perceptions, as assuming of a medium in his contemplations, pass,
as they alienate, that the form and the colour not been even their
the.

Naturally we explain cf great, more enormous, intellectual activity, and an aversion to real action,
consequent to it said, of all its thanks and accompanying attribute. "P. 82. his father s secretary.
i, 2, 255. I alluded Ophelia. v, 1, 292. Sweets toward the sweet. v, 1, 266. P. 83. There is
there a willow. See p. 39. our author s plays seen. Seek pp. 70, 87. P. 84. Kemble, John Philip
(1757-1823), immature brother have couched upon Title. Siddons and
them noted as a tragedy.

Hazlitt often being said his manner read of most of the:" we could
prepare we had purely acted Mr. the.

He has represented that religion; and it is the religion to which
we were reproduced up.

"Works, viii, 345. the o'th'sea."

Winter's Tale, "iv, 4, 141.

Kean, Edmund (1787-1833), most actor whom Hazlitt was instrumental
citizens from forge with the public.

Shylock and Othello were his that successful roles. By history of his various
execution, love" the Assistance in a Stage "(Works, viii).

The in a points of kean essay are brought with a notice Kean's Hamlet
(viii, 185-189).

Lover and JULIET promised the extract is the paragraph of a petition. P. 84. the critic, the. W.
Schlegel.

The passage in Hazlitt makes with Coleridge'byron Works (iv, 60-61)
of what is awkwardly the than the translation:" anger'Romeo and Juliet';--
all is youth and spring;-- youth with its follies, its virtues, its
thanks;-- spring of its odors, its flowers, and its transiency; it
is one and a feeling that goes, appears in, and arms these play.

The old men, reducing the Preparations and same Shipments, are not common
old men; he have the eagerness, who had the heartiness, the vehemence,
own effect to the spring; on Romeo, its change of passion, his sudden
matrimony, and his rash death, there are all the consequence were
in city;-- whilst to Juliet love has all the melancholy with a nightingale,
all the voluptuous of the rose, of whatever is sweet for no freshness
for that spring; but it commences with more as long sigh amidst the
breeze with a day.

"P. 85. fancies see. The." Lycidas Jan, "" cowslips wan.

"MIDSUMMER Weeknight'S Corn cf extracts are more second and last paragraphs of the essay. P. 85.
Lord, what fools later. iii, 2, 115. P. 86. human mortals. ii, 1,
101. gorgons and hydras."

Paradise
who loved, "ii, 628. the person, Sir Humphry Davy; wish the p. 342.

Cf. Coleridge (Works, iv, 66):" Shakspere was not always have these
poet, but not this philosopher.

"P. 87. Poetry and an stage. The. Lamb," in a Tragedies on Shakspere "(ed. Lucas, i, 110):" Spirits
and fairies cannot be painted, they cannot little be destroyed,-- they can long be returned.
 Whilst this request was under consideration the mayor was directed by the council
to write to all the livery companies interested in the Londonderry estate, and exhort them
to contribute bread and corn for the relief of the plantation.(510)

(M218)

Two days later (24 Jan.) the City resolved not to accede to the request. Answer was sent that
they were unable to raise money for a foreign war by way of a tax, and it was hopeless to raise
the money by voluntary contributions. The House was reminded that the City had already advanced
a sum of £50,000 on the express understanding that troops should forthwith be despatched to
Ireland, but none had gone. The citizens would refuse to lend more until assured that relief
had been actually sent to Londonderry. The House was further reminded that the City was dissatisfied
with the remissness shown in disarming Papists and pressing of soldiers, as well as in displacing
the lieutenant of the Tower, and appointing one well approved by parliament. A similar representation
was made to the House of Lords.(511)

(M219)

On the 11th February a petition was presented to the House of Commons by "divers of his majesty’s
loyal subjects," offering to assist at their own charge in putting down the Irish rebellion,
provided that they might have such satisfaction out of the rebels’ estates as should be thought
reasonable.(512) The suggestion was readily accepted, and a scheme for opening a public subscription
passed through both Houses in a week. The mayor lost no time in setting a subscription on foot
in the city.(513) The companies, to whom application had been made a month before for contributions
of bread and corn, were now desirous to know if they could limit their relief to those sufferers
on what was or had been their own estates in Ireland, and not have it distributed among all
his majesty’s distressed subjects in that country. The Common Council declined to undertake
to answer this question, but recommended each company to appear before the parliamentary committee
appointed for the purpose and make its own conditions.(514)

The following day (3 March) the City was informed that an Act of Parliament was already in
preparation for settling 2,500,000 acres of land according to the votes of both Houses, unto
which his majesty had given his royal assent.(515) The companies were subsequently (19th March)
invited to provide ordnance for the protection of Londonderry.(516)

(M220)

Meanwhile the struggle that had been going on between the king and parliament as to who should
have control over the fortresses and the trained bands or militia of the kingdom, resulted
in the Commons drawing up an ordinance conferring power in each county upon persons, to be
afterwards named, to raise an armed force for the suppression of rebellions and invasions (31
Jan.).(517) This "militia ordinance"—as it was called—caused no little dissatisfaction in the
city as trespassing upon the authority of the lord mayor, and a petition against it was drawn
up by a certain section of the inhabitants and presented to both Houses of Parliament. The
same was printed and circulated together with the king’s message to the Houses against the
ordinance.(518)

(M221)

The Common Council were determined, however, to stand by parliament. They passed a resolution
disclaiming the petition against the militia ordinance, and ordered other petitions to be drawn
up and presented to both Houses,(519) congratulating them on the steps they had taken "for
the safety of his majesty, the parliament and the kingdom," which would meet with ready submission
on the part of the petitioners, and thanking them for the honour they had done the City in
allowing it to nominate those persons to whom its militia should be committed.(520) Gurney,
the royalist mayor, did not preside at the court which sanctioned these petitions, being absent
from illness, so it was said.

(M222)

On the 4th April a militia commission appointed by parliament for the city was read before
the Common Council, the commissioners being authorised to raise and train forces, appoint and
remove officers, and do other things necessary for the suppressing of rebellions and resisting
invasions.(521) It was suggested that six colonels and thirty-four captains should be set over
the trained bands, which had been recently increased to forty companies, each 200 strong.(522)
The pay of the officers was guaranteed by the Common Council.(523) A stock of gunpowder was
laid up in the city ready for any emergency, and the livery companies were called upon to make
a return of the arms stored in their several halls.(524)

(M223)

On the 10th May a grand review of all the trained bands of the city, with their new officer
Skippon at their head, was held in Finsbury Fields in the presence of both Houses of Parliament,
the members of which were hospitably entertained on the ground at the City’s expense.(525)

(M224)

So pleased was parliament—both Lords and Commons—at the zeal of the City in raising and training
so large a force as 8,000 men, to serve as an example (it was hoped) to the rest of the kingdom,
as also in contributing upwards of £40,000 (more than one-tenth part of the whole sum recently
voted by parliament) for the defence of the kingdom, that a deputation from both houses waited
on the Common Council (16 May) and returned their hearty thanks.(526)

(M225)

On the following day (17 May) the Houses resolved that Skippon should ignore an order from
the king to attend his majesty at York, and directed the sheriffs to suppress any levy of men
made without the major-general’s authority.(527)

(M226)

It was no long time before application was again made to the city for more pecuniary assistance.
The breach between king and parliament was rapidly widening. Charles was known to be collecting
forces around him in spite of a formal prohibition by the Commons, who now more distinctly
asserted their claim to sovereignty. On Thursday, the 2nd June, a deputation of Lords and Commons
presented themselves before the livery of the several companies assembled in Common Hall, and
desired a loan of £100,000 towards "the relief and preservation of the kingdom of Ireland"
and "speedy supply of the great and urgent necessities of this kingdom." The money was voted
"most freely and with great alacrity," and was to be raised by the companies according to their
corn assessment, as on previous occasions. On the 4th June the Commons passed an ordinance
for security of the loan, and the thanks of both Houses and of the whole kingdom were returned
to the city for its ready compliance.(528) Two days later (6 June) Gurney, much against his
own inclination we may be sure, was forced to issue his precept to the companies to raise their
several contributions.(529) The Grocers’ Company raised their quota of £9,000 by voluntary
subscription without demur. The Merchant Taylors, on the other hand, who were assessed at £10,000,
whilst expressing themselves ready to do their part in furnishing the loan, took occasion to
formally place on record their resolution "that the Common Hall (consisting of the liveries
of this city) assembled in the Guildhall, London, hath no power, right or authority to bind
or impose upon this company any loan of money whatsoever."(530)

(M227) (M228)

On the 10th the Commons issued "propositions" for the bringing in of money, plate, arms and
horses for "the defence of the king and both houses of parliament." Those living in and around
London within a radius of eighty miles were allowed a fortnight; and so great was the enthusiasm
displayed for the parliamentary cause that (in the words of Clarendon)(531) "it is hardly credible
what a vast proportion of plate was brought in to their treasurers within ten days, there being
hardly men enough to receive it or room to lay it in." It was in vain that Charles protested
and threatened the citizens with the loss of their charter if they carried out the behests
of the Commons.(532) His protest was only met with a further levy of £50,000 on all strangers
and aliens residing within the city.(533)

(M229) (M230)

Gurney’s position as mayor had become more and more an anomalous one every day. In July he
was impeached by the Commons for having published the king’s commission of array in the city.
On the 12th August the Lords sentenced him to be imprisoned during the pleasure of the House,
and to be deprived of his mayoralty,(534) and at the same time ordered Sir Nicholas Raynton
to summon a Common Hall for the election of a new mayor. A Common Hall was accordingly summoned
for the 16th, when Isaac Pennington and John Wollaston being nominated by the livery, the former
was selected by the Court of Aldermen as Gurney’s successor.(535) Upon application being made
to Gurney for the insignia—the sword, cap, mace and collar of esses—"he pretended they were
at his house in London, locked up, and he could not come at them"; and he stoutly refused to
deliver up the city’s sword to any one but the king.(536) With a rigid Puritan like Pennington
in the mayoralty chair, and Gurney and Sir Thomas Gardiner already impeached, the city was
made secure for parliament before Charles set up his standard at Nottingham (22 Aug.) in token
that the Civil War had commenced.

CHAPTER XXIII.

(M231)

It was the general opinion of both parties that the war would be a short one. A deputation
from both Houses attended a court of Common Council held on the 25th August. It had been decided
that an army should at once set out so as not to "prolong or draw out a war," and in order
to keep the field of action at a distance from London. But arms were wanted. The City was therefore
asked to supply the parliamentary forces with 6,000 muskets and 4,000 pikes.(537) It was difficult
to raise this quantity of arms in the city without depriving the trained bands of their weapons,
a course which was entirely out of the question. At first the halls of the various companies
were ransacked for arms; this having been done and a deficiency still remaining, a house-to-house
visitation was resolved on.(538)

(M232)

It behoved the citizens to look to themselves at this crisis; and accordingly the Common Council
resolved early in September to raise two additional regiments of foot, each 1,200 strong, and
four troops of sixty horse for the defence of the city. In order to defray the necessary charge
parliament was asked to sanction the setting apart of £25,000 out of the money and plate subscribed
by the inhabitants for the general defence of the kingdom; and the House, not wishing to run
the risk of losing the goose that laid the golden egg, readily gave its assent.(539)

(M233)

The Committee of Militia, to whom the defence of the city was entrusted, took care—"with most
loyal intentions to his majesty," as they were careful to make known—that the city’s force,
consisting of forty companies in six regiments, was properly exercised both together and by
separate regiments, one regiment "going abroad" weekly for exercise. The action of the committee
gave rise to much adverse comment by royalists, and led to two members of the committee, viz.,
Sir John Gayer and Sir Jacob Garrard, withdrawing from it. At the request of the committee
the Common Council agreed that the lord mayor and sheriffs should take the place of the retired
members, and at the same time signified their approval of all that the Committee of Militia
had done for the defence of the city.(540)

(M234)

Skippon and other officers were directed (6 Sept.) to take a view of the city and liberties
and inspect the gates and posterns, and especially a passage through the Bell Inn into the
fields at Temple Bar. They were to consider the advisability of stopping up the less used passages
as adding to the city’s peril, and of erecting more watch-houses in addition to those about
to be made at Moorgate and Bishopsgate. They were further to report anything that might the
better conduce to the safety of the city and liberties "in these times of great and eminent
danger."(541) Pennington, the new mayor, had previously given orders for the gates and portcullises
to be seen to, the city’s chains and posts repaired, and the usual precautions to be taken
against fire.(542)

(M235)

On the 9th September Essex set out from London to put himself at the head of the parliamentary
army which (it was fondly hoped) was to make short work of the royalists. He carried with him,
we are told, his coffin and his winding-sheet, together with his funeral escutcheon, in token
of his readiness to die in the cause.(543) On the 14th he reviewed his forces, and was soon
convinced that they would quickly desert unless promptly paid. Disaffection had appeared in
the ranks a week before, the soldiers demanding five shillings a man, which sum had been promised
them monthly, and threatening to throw down their arms unless paid.(544)

(M236)

In this strait the earl despatched a letter to the City desiring a loan of £100,000 for the
maintenance of the army.(545) This letter having been read to the Common Council (15 Sept.)
and well received, the mayor issued his precept to the aldermen of each ward to incite the
inhabitants to underwrite the loan.(546)

(M237)

A month later the Common Council was informed (18 Oct.) that Prince Rupert was expected soon
to be on his way towards London. What force would the City be prepared to put in the field
in order to stay the advance of the "adverse party"? After due deliberation answer was made
to the "Close Committee" of parliament that twelve companies of the trained bands would be
prepared to join the forces of the adjacent counties at any place the committee might appoint
"for the defence of religion, the king, kingdom, parliament and the city."(547) The aspect
of the city at this time was that of a huge military depôt. Everywhere was heard the sound
of musket-shot and rattle of drum, besides the noise of the squib or other firework of the
frolicsome apprentice. So great and continuous was the din that it had to be restricted by
precept of the mayor.(548)

(M238)

The whole city, as described by a Puritan soldier in a letter to a merchant of London,(549)
was now "either real or constrained Roundheads." There were exceptions, however, but these
were to be found chiefly among the wealthier and more aristocratic class of citizens. They
were stigmatised as "Delinquents" or "Malignants," and as such were committed to prison, and
their estates seized to provide means for protecting the city and carrying on the war. Out
of thirty-seven "delinquents" imprisoned in Crosby House a month later, three at least were
aldermen of the city, viz., Sir William Acton, Sir George Whitmore and Sir John Cordell.(550)

(M239)

At Michaelmas Pennington was re-elected mayor,(551) and, as the lord keeper was with the king,
Pennington presented himself before the House of Lords for approval of his re-election.  He
took the opportunity of mentioning a few city matters concerning which he desired their lordships’s
advice. In the first place he had received the king’s writ for proclamation of the adjournment
of the next law term, and he wished to know if he was to act upon it. Secondly, there had been
recently a riot at St. Paul’s, and the rioters had been committed to prison, and he desired
to know what proceedings should be taken against them. Lastly, he had to complain of the seditious
character of the sermons preached at St. Paul’s, the preacher being appointed by the Bishop
of London. Indeed, they had been so bad that he and his brother aldermen had ceased to attend.
He asked that the appointment of preachers might be vested in the lord mayor, according to
a former order of their lordships. On the first two questions an immediate answer was given.
As to the proclamation for the adjournment of the term, it had received the sanction of the
Lords, and therefore the mayor was at liberty to publish it. Touching the rioters at St. Paul’s,
they might be proceeded with according to law. The question as to the appointment of preachers
at St. Paul’s, that was a matter which required further consideration.(552)

(M240)

The first serious conflict between the forces of king and parliament took place at Edge-hill
(23 Oct.), when both parties claimed the victory. With Charles, however, rested the more immediate
fruits of success, for he had overcome the first obstacle that stood in his way to London.
That Charles did not enter London as a conqueror was owing to the determined front shown to
his forces by the trained bands of the City, and the energy displayed by the inhabitants at
large. If anything were needed to stimulate exertion on the part of the Londoners, they found
it in the reports which daily arrived of country houses being despoiled by the royalist soldiery.
Few doubted that if allowed to enter the city the wealth of London would be at their mercy.
"You see what is threatened you," said the Earl of Holland to the citizens at the Guildhall,
soon after the battle, "you must know what to expect and what to trust to; they intend you
no lesse (and that is to be believed) than the destroying of the city, your persons and the
preying upon your fortunes."(553)

(M241)

By the 12th November Charles had made himself master of Brentford. The next day (13th Nov.)
was Sunday; nevertheless, the House sat and received a deputation of Londoners, who, "in the
name of the Godly and active part of the city," placed their persons, purses and estates at
the command of the House to do with them at its pleasure, and declared that they would "man
out every man his man and make their own captains and officers, and live and die with the House
of Commons, and in defence thereof."(554) An offer made by the citizens of London to raise
one thousand light-horse and three thousand dragoons was gladly accepted by both Houses of
Parliament.(555) These were placed under the command of Skippon, now promoted to the rank of
Serjeant-Major-General in the army under Essex. The citizens were sorry to lose one who had
done so much to raise the discipline of the city forces, but there was no withstanding the
appeal made to them by the leader of the parliamentary forces.(556)

(M242)

The city was ransacked for soldiers, who, by the way, were allowed certain privileges, being
charged no more than a penny a night for lodging and three half-pence for a quart of beer,
and every available man was ordered to be despatched (18 Nov.) to join Essex at Turnham Green.(557)
Charles deemed discretion to be the better part of valour and withdrew from Brentwood, which
was immediately occupied by Essex, and made his way to Reading. The golden opportunity thus
lost was never regained.

(M243)

Hitherto the parliamentary cause had been supported by loans which were in name, if not in
actual fact, voluntary. The spasmodic nature of this method of obtaining a supply of money
for the army proved a source of weakness. The Houses therefore resolved to change it for the
more effective system of raising money by taxation. The rest of the kingdom would thus bear
its share of the burden, which until now had been chiefly borne by the city of London. Inhabitants
of the city who had never before contributed to so-called voluntary loans would now be compelled
to pay their quota. Those who had not already contributed to the support of the army were now
compelled to do so, in money, plate, horse, horsemen or arms. Every man was to be assessed
according to his ability, but no one was to be assessed above a twentieth part of his estate.
Payment was to be enforced by distress of goods in cases of refusal, and the aid of the trained
bands might be invoked if necessary.(558)

(M244)

In the meantime a deputation of members of both Houses attended a meeting of the Common Hall
and asked for a loan of £30,000. The mayor forthwith issued his precept for a return to be
made of the names of every inhabitant of each ward for the purpose of an assessment.(559)

(M245)

The city was becoming more and more agitated by party faction every day. Royalist and parliamentarian
openly acknowledged the side he favoured by wearing a distinctive badge,(560) and disturbances
were of frequent occurrence. To many the state of affairs had become little less than disastrous,
owing to the shutting up of shops and the stoppage of trade. The new parliamentary taxation
increased the general dissatisfaction and made the citizens sigh for peace. On the 12th December
two petitions were laid before the Common Council. Both petitions advocated peace. One of them
was objected to by the court as too dictatorial in tone and as casting an aspersion on parliament.
They nevertheless ordered it to be entered on record, "to the end their dislike might the better
appear."(561) Whilst these petitions were under consideration in the Council Chamber, which
stood almost on the same spot as that on which the present new and handsome structure stands,
cries were heard proceeding from an angry crowd in the adjacent hall. On all sides there arose
a clamour for peace. The lives of the lord mayor and the unpopular aldermen were even threatened.
The few soldiers who happened to be present received some rough handling, and were told to
go and spend the money they had received from the State at the tavern, for they should have
no more. At last a body of the city trained bands arrived and order was restored. The Common
Council continuing its deliberations set aside both petitions, but appointed a committee to
draw up on its behalf two other petitions advocating a cessation of hostilities, one to be
presented to the king and the other to parliament.(562)

(M246)

On the 19th December these petitions, which had previously been submitted to the Common Council
for approval,(563) were laid before both Houses of Parliament, the sheriffs and certain members
of the Court of Aldermen and of the Common Council attending at the bar of the House of Commons
and publicly disavowing any other petition. Having notified its approval of both petitions
the House gave orders that those who had been suspected of taking part in the late tumult at
the Guildhall should be committed as prisoners to Lambeth House.(564) A week later (26 Dec.)
both Houses were prepared to open negotiations with the king.(565)

(M247) (M248)

Having obtained the sanction of parliament to present their petition to Charles, the Common
Council left it to the mayor to send whom he would to "Mr. Secretary Falkland to learn his
majesties pleasure whether certeine citizens might with safety repaire unto his highness" with
the City’s petition, and in the meanwhile nominated the members of the deputation who should
wait upon the king if Falkland’s reply to the mayor’s messenger proved satisfactory.(566) The
reply was favourable, and the deputation set out for Oxford, where Charles had taken up his
quarters. On their return they reported the result of their journey to the Common Council.(567)
They arrived in Oxford, said they, between one and two o’clock on the afternoon of Monday,
the 2nd January (1643), and an hour later waited upon Lord Falkland at his lodgings in New
College. At five o’clock the same evening they were admitted into the king’s presence and the
City’s petition was then publicly read. The king professed satisfaction at seeing them, for
he could now be sure that certain printed declarations of his would reach those for whom they
were intended. He questioned very much the ability of the City to protect his person, seeing
that it was unable to preserve peace among themselves. On Wednesday (4 Jan.) the deputation
was dismissed with a promise that Charles would send an answer by Mr. Herne (or Heron), one
of his own servants, who would accompany them on their return. He asked which was the larger
assembly, the Common Council or the Common Hall. On being told that the latter were more numerous
he directed that his answer should be read there, as he wished as many as possible to be disabused
and to know the truth. Just when the deputation was about to set out from Oxford on its return
a printed paper purporting to be the king’s answer was handed to Sir George Garrett and Sir
George Clark as they sat in their coach. The Common Council having heard the whole story of
the mission to Oxford deemed it expedient to inform the House of Commons of the result, and
to lay the printed paper in their hands.(568) This was accordingly done on the 11th January,
with the result that the House directed the mayor to summon a Common Hall for Friday, the 13th,
to hear the king’s reply.(569) When the Common Hall met at the appointed time it was only to
hear a long diatribe against the heinousness of those who had taken up arms against their king.
All good subjects were called upon to throw off their yoke, and to begin by arresting the lord
mayor and certain leading citizens who had been guilty of treason. When this had been done,
and not before, he would be prepared to return to London without the protection of his army,
or, to use the expression of the petitioners themselves, with his "royal," and not his "martial
attendance."(570)

(M249)

After this Pym, who attended the Common Hall and heard the king’s reply,(571) had no difficulty
in convincing the assembly of the king’s real mind, and that he had no intention to accept
terms of peace. The meeting was all but unanimous for continuing the war rather than submit
to the degradation of their mayor. A subsequent attempt by Charles to have his reply circulated
among the livery companies was frustrated by an order of the House of Commons (24 Jan.) which
granted the sheriffs an indemnity for refusing to execute the king’s order.(572)

(M250)

If the war was to be carried on it was necessary for parliament to face the difficulty of getting
a steady supply of money. Up to this moment the new parliamentary taxes had brought in nothing.
Many of the wealthier class of citizens absolutely refused to pay. At a Common Hall held on
the 17th January Alderman Garway pointed out, in a very strong speech, the danger which would
beset merchants trading with foreign parts if the king withdrew his protection from them in
consequence of the city contributing to the maintenance of the parliamentary army. His speech
was followed by a great tumult, and the meeting broke up amid cries of "No money, no money!
peace, peace!"(573)

(M251)

The payment of the assessment made in November last had been widely refused. The war had already
ruined many, and if some refused to pay on principle others refused from sheer inability. Among
the former must be reckoned Sir George Whitmore,(574) a royalist alderman of considerable means,
who, with Thomas Knyvett, a goldsmith, Paul Pindar, and others preferred imprisonment to pay
what was by them considered an illegal tax.(575)

(M252)

Nevertheless application was made to the City at this juncture for a loan of £60,000 to keep
the army from disbanding. A deputation from both Houses of Parliament attended a court of Common
Council held on the 18th February, and assured the citizens that the money would be repaid
out of the weekly payments which parliament had resolved to impose upon every county in England.(576)
This would be the last time, as they hoped, that a call of this kind would be made upon the
city. The council declared its willingness to promote the loan, the members present promising
an immediate payment of £6,000. Ministers were recommended to lay the matter before their respective
congregations on the following Sunday and exhort them to contribute.(577)

(M253)

A weekly assessment of £10,000 had been imposed on the City, whilst a monthly rebate was allowed
of £3,000. The Common Council complained to parliament that the City was over-assessed in comparison
with other counties, and suggested that the monthly allowance should be raised to £4,000. They
also desired some security for the repayment of the loan of £60,000. These and other proposals
were laid before the House as being "encouragements" for the City to make the loan; and the
House, in returning thanks to the City for its readiness in the matter of the loan, promised
that the "encouragements" should receive favourable consideration.(578)

(M254)

In the midst of their financial difficulties the Commons had been busy elaborating the propositions
for peace sent down to them from the Lords. At length these were complete, and on the 1st February
were presented to the king. They were, however, received by Charles with little favour, and
the rest of the month was consumed by both Houses in an endeavour to arrive at a compromise
at once satisfactory to themselves and likely to be acceptable to the king.

(M255)

Before fresh terms of compromise were formulated the House was asked (23 Feb.) to consider
certain other propositions drawn up by the Common Council of the city. These were three in
number. The first desired the reformation of the army. The second demanded an indemnity to
the citizens for their adhesion to parliament. The third was a proposal for a religious covenant
and association for the defence of religion and liberty in case the negotiations with the king
should fall through. To only one of these propositions did the House give an immediate reply,
and that was the second. To this the Commons returned answer that in the intended treaty with
the king such care would be taken for the indemnity of the City and citizens of London and
of the privileges thereof as should secure them and "be a witness to the present and future
generations of their fidelity to the king and parliament."(579)

(M256)

That the citizens entertained but little hopes of a peaceful issue to the negotiations with
Charles is evinced by their resolving (23 Feb.) to carry out a comprehensive scheme of defence
of the city and suburbs.(580) The scheme received the sanction of parliament, which further
allowed the civic authorities to call upon the inhabitants of the suburbs as well as of the
city proper to contribute to the undertaking.(581) The City had a hard task to get subscriptions
in from the outlying districts, and was consequently obliged to advance out of its own Chamber
no less than six sums of £2,000 each between the months of March and July lest the work of
erecting the necessary fortifications should be brought to a standstill.(582)

(M257)

In the face of this extraordinary expenditure the City was the more anxious to get its weekly
assessment reduced. On the 1st March Colonel Venn, one of the city’s members, informed the
Common Council that the application to have the assessment reduced had been made too late,
but the House would allow the City an additional monthly sum of £3,000 in aid of its defences
so long as the ordinance for a weekly assessment should continue in force.(583)

(M258)

On the 10th March a deputation from both Houses, including Pym, informed the Common Council
of a message that had recently arrived from the Earl of Essex to the effect that Prince "Robert"
(Rupert) had arrived with a large force within four miles of Bristol, and the earl intended
forthwith to make an advance. His army, however, was sadly in arrears of payment; he wanted
both men and money, and this fact he had desired to be represented to the citizens of London.
Pym, therefore, in the name of both Houses desired the Common Council to hasten as far as possible
the payment of the residue of the £60,000 already promised, and to furnish such forces as the
city could spare.

(M259)

As far as the first part of the request went the council promised its ready assistance.(584)
It frankly acknowledged that little more than one-third of the whole amount promised had come
in, but there were difficulties in the way of getting it in. A large sum of money—as much as
£30,000—which ought to have been repaid to the lenders out of the estates of malignants was
still owing, and lenders were thereby discouraged. Men of ability refused to lend, and there
were no means of forcing them; whilst divers rich men had left the city, carrying with them
what property they could, and leaving their houses empty. Nevertheless, the council assured
the deputation that it was well affected to parliament, all but a very few of its members having
already contributed, and it would forthwith take steps to get the money in. Touching the furnishing
of soldiers, the council remarked that there were but three regiments in the city besides the
trained bands, two of which were on active service and the one remaining was on outpost duty.(585)

(M260)

Soon after the outbreak of the war it was seen that the weak point of the parliamentary army
lay in its cavalry. Already something had been done towards remedying this defect. Volunteers
had offered themselves for the formation of a troop of horse at their own expense, and a "seminary"
for cavalry had been established.(586) The news about Rupert urged the citizens to a greater
effort. On the 15th March an offer was made to the Common Council to raise no less than ten
volunteer regiments, three of which were to consist of cavalry. The men were to receive no
pay except when engaged on active service, and only a small sum was asked for, in order to
provide colours, drums and other necessaries. The offer was gladly accepted.(587)

(M261)

The last loan of £60,000 could scarcely have been subscribed before an order came from the
Commons for the city to make a further advance of £40,000 for the support of the army.(588)

(M262)

The East India Company was at the same time called upon to lend its ordnance and military store
for the defence of the city. In case of refusal both ordnance and provisions were to be seized,
on the understanding that the City would restore them in as good condition as it received them
or give satisfaction for them. Should any great emergency arise the Commons would supply the
company with what was necessary.(589) The livery companies too were exhorted to lend their
arms. These were to be stored at Salters’ Hall, in Bread Street.(590)

(M263)

A few days later the negotiations between parliament and the king for a cessation of hostilities
collapsed, and the parliamentary commissioners at Oxford were ordered to return home (14 April).(591)
Irritated at the king’s obstinacy, the Puritan party vented its spleen by ordering the wholesale
destruction of superstitious or idolatrous monuments in Westminster Abbey and elsewhere. The
City followed suit by asking parliament to sanction the removal of Cheapside cross, "in regard
of the idolatrous and superstitious figures there about sett and fixed."(592) In 1581 these
figures had given cause for offence and were secretly removed,(593) but others had apparently
been set up in their place. The demolition of the cross, which took place on the 2nd May amid
signs of public rejoicing, was followed (10 May) by the public burning of the "Book of Sports"
by the hands of the common hangman in Cheapside.(594) Another measure in the same direction
was the placing of the appointment of preachers in St. Paul’s Churchyard in the hands of the
mayor and aldermen, a proposal which the mayor had formerly suggested to the House of Commons.(595)

(M264)

Now that all hopes of a peaceful settlement had gone, Charles took measures to gain over as
many Londoners as he could to his side. He had previously (16 March) caused a commission of
array to be drawn, addressed to Gardiner, who was still Recorder, and others, authorising them
to raise a force on his behalf in the city.(596) This commission he had retained at Oxford
until he could find an opportunity for conveying it safely to London. It was now entrusted
to Lady Daubeny to carry to London. She succeeded in her mission and handed the document over
to a city linendraper named Chaloner, who, in his turn, transferred it to Tompkins, a brother-in-law
of Waller the poet, who was also implicated in the design which on that account came to be
known as "Waller’s Plot." Tompkins endeavoured to conceal it in a cellar, but it did not escape
the prying eyes of parliamentary searchers. Early in the morning of the 31st May Tompkins was
arrested, and in the course of time both he and Chaloner paid the penalty of their rashness
by being hanged in front of their own houses, the one in Cornhill and the other in Holborn.
Waller was also taken and flung into prison.(597)

(M265)

Thursday, the 15th June, was appointed to be kept as a day of thanksgiving for deliverance
from the plot,(598) and on that day the new parliamentary vow or covenant, binding those who
took it to support the forces raised in defence of parliament against those raised by the king,
was generally accepted in the city.

(M266)

In the meantime Essex had besieged and taken Reading (26 April), but his troops became affected
with disease, and he made no attempt to advance on Oxford until June.  Before his arrival Hampden
had received a mortal wound at Chalgrove Field (18 June). On the 5th July the royalist forces
under Hopton worsted the parliamentary army under Waller in the west, whilst a similar success
was achieved against Fairfax in the north (30 June). The king had reason to be elated as he
rode into Oxford (14 July) accompanied by the queen, from whom he had been separated for fifteen
months, amid the shouts of men and the ringing of bells.

(M267) (M268)

Parliament and the City, on the other hand, had reason to be dejected. On the 17th July Charles
issued a proclamation for seizing all merchandise on its way to London. The trade of the city
became paralysed.(599) Nor was this all. For some months past the citizens had been suffering
from a scarcity of coal. Ever since the appointment of the Earl of Newcastle as governor of
the town of Newcastle in June, 1642,(600) that town had been held for Charles, and a refusal
to allow its coal to be supplied to the supporters of parliament had brought the city of London
and the eastern counties into great straits.(601) It thus became a matter of prime importance
that Newcastle should be captured. How this was to be accomplished was set out in a series
of propositions drawn up (25 May, 1643) by the Common Council of the city to be laid before
parliament.(602) A monopoly of the trade in coal, salt and glass with the north of England
was to be held out as an incentive for persons to adventure their money in the reduction of
the town. A committee, of which one-half of its members was to be nominated by the Commons
and the rest by the City, was to have charge of all the money subscribed and to direct the
undertaking. The propositions were well received (26 May),(603) and on the 10th June the Common
Council nominated three aldermen and seven common councilmen to join with a like number to
be appointed by parliament in raising a force by sea and land for the reduction of the town.(604)

(M269)

To make matters worse news arrived on the 18th July that royalist cavalry were in the vicinity
of London, and that great disaffection to the cause of parliament had manifested itself in
the neighbouring counties of Kent and Surrey. The Common Council, recognising the danger, forthwith
resolved to raise what money it could at the rate of eight per cent., and to place it at the
disposal of the Committee of the Militia of the city.(605)

(M270) (M271)

The danger which threatened London was increased the more by reason of dissensions which sprang
up among those whose particular care were the defences of the city. A sub-committee which usually
met at Salters’ Hall fell out with the Committee of the Militia of London for presuming to
get into its hands the sole power over the auxiliary forces which had lately been raised. Another
committee was appointed to investigate the cause of dissension, and if possible to suggest
a modus vivendi.(606) This was no easy matter to accomplish. It was eventually agreed to lay
before parliament a petition that all the forces raised within the city and liberties, as also
within the parishes adjacent mentioned in the weekly bill of mortality, might be under the
sole command of the Committee of the Militia of the city, under the direction of both Houses
of Parliament.(607) On the 18th July a petition to this effect was accordingly laid before
the Commons by a deputation of aldermen and common councilmen, and received the approval of
the House. The outcome of all this was that the House eventually passed a resolution (29 July)
that "Sir William Waller do command in chief all the forces raised within the city of London,
and all other forces that are or shall be under the command of the militia of London, subordinate
to the lord mayor and militia," and at the same time transferred the custody of the Tower into
the hands of the lord mayor and sheriffs.(608)

(M272)

Waller’s appointment was a distinct slur upon Essex, about whom some rumours had been spread
in order to prejudice him in the eyes of the City. The Common Council took an early opportunity
of deprecating strongly these false rumours, and appointed (1 Aug.) a deputation to wait upon
"his excellency" to assure him of the good opinion which the court—as the representative body
of the city—had of his great care and fidelity in the preservation of the king, parliament,
city and kingdom, and to promise him every assistance in recruiting his army. The citizens
would stand by his excellency with their lives and fortunes.(609)

(M273) (M274)

Taking advantage of a split in the parliamentary camp, the Lords renewed their proposals for
peace. As soon as the City became aware of this there was great consternation. A Common Council
hurriedly met on Sunday afternoon (6 Aug.) and drew up a petition to the Commons praying them
to continue the same course they had hitherto pursued and to reject all propositions for peace.(610)
This petition was presented to the House on Monday (7 Aug.), when the proposals of the Lords
came on again for consideration. The House thanked the City for its care, recommended the lord
mayor to take measures to prevent all disorders, and afterwards formally rejected the peace
propositions.(611)

(M275)

Whilst the proposals of the Lords were under consideration the approaches of the Houses had
been filled by an angry mob which threatened to return the next day unless matters went as
they pleased. On the morning of the 8th August parliament was again besieged. This time it
was by a crowd of women with white ribbons in their hats, shouting loudly for peace. The next
day they appeared in greater numbers, and having presented a petition for the cessation of
the war and received a courteous answer from the Commons, they refused to go home, but pressed
on to the door of the House and demanded that the traitors who were against peace might be
handed over to them. From words they resorted to stones and brickbats. At length a small body
of Waller’s horse from the city appeared on the scene, and order was with difficulty restored.(612)

(M276)

On the 7th a commission had arrived from Essex, in answer to the recommendation of the House,
appointing Waller to the command of all the forces to be raised by the city.(613) Four days
later (11 Aug.) the Committee of the Militia for the city desired the cooperation of the Common
Council in raising 1,000 horse, pursuant to an order of parliament of the 25th July, and on
the following day (12 Aug.) Pennington issued a warrant for pressing the number of horses required
for delivery to Waller.(614)

(M277)

Instead of marching with his main army direct upon London from Bristol, as Charles had originally
intended, he resolved to lay siege to Gloucester. On the 10th August he appeared before its
gates and formally summoned the town to surrender.(615) The citizens of London were quick to
realise the fact that the fall of Gloucester would endanger their own safety, and at once took
measures for defending themselves and sending relief to the besieged town.

(M278)

On the day after Gloucester had been summoned to surrender the Common Council, in view of "the
neare approach of the king’s forces," resolved to call upon the livery companies to raise the
sum of £50,000, for which the City would give bonds at the rate of eight per cent. interest.
The companies were to contribute according to their corn assessment. In addition to this every
inhabitant of the city, citizen or stranger, was to contribute to the Chamber a sum equal to
fifty times the amount of subsidy he had been in the habit of paying, and for this also the
City would allow him interest at the rate of eight per cent. after the first six months. This
mode of raising the money required subsequently (18 Aug.) received the sanction of both Houses
of Parliament, who guaranteed its repayment (24 Aug.).(616) The Merchant Taylors’ Company again
hesitated before they consented to pay the sum (£5,000) at which they were assessed, whilst
the Grocers, on the other hand, displayed the same alacrity as before in contributing their
quota (£4,500), resolving to dispose of the remainder of their plate (with the exception of
such as was absolutely necessary) for the purpose.(617)

(M279)

Ten days later (21 Aug.) the Committee of the Militia of the city declared its intention of
sending a force under the command of Essex to assist in raising the siege of Gloucester, and
at once ordered every shop to be closed and all business suspended until Gloucester should
be relieved. The regiments to be sent were to be chosen by lot. These consisted of two regiments
of the trained bands, two of the auxiliaries, and a regiment of horse; and with them were despatched
eleven pieces of cannon and three "drakes."(618)

(M280)

After reviewing his forces on Hounslow Heath in the presence of a large number of members of
both Houses, Essex set out on his march (26 Aug.). The troops suffered great privation from
lack of food and water by the way. "Such straits and hardships," wrote a sergeant in one of
the London regiments, "our citizens formerly knew not; yet the Lord that called us to do the
work enabled us to undergo such hardships as He brought us to."(619) By the 5th September every
obstacle had been overcome and Essex appeared before Gloucester, only to see, however, the
blazing huts of the royalist army already in full retreat. Three days later he entered the
city amid the enthusiastic rejoicings of the inhabitants, who, but for his timely arrival,
would have been at the mercy of the enemy. The relief of Gloucester, to which the Londoners
contributed so much, "proved to be the turning point of the war."(620)

(M281)

If the Londoners fairly claimed some credit for the part they had taken towards the relief
of Gloucester, still more credit was due to them for the bold stand they made a fortnight later
(20 Sept.), at Newbury, against repeated charges of Rupert’s far-famed cavalry. Again and again
did Rupert’s horse dash down upon the serried pikes of the London trained bands, but never
once did it succeed in breaking their ranks, whilst many a royalist saddle was emptied by the
city’s musketeers, whose training in the Artillery Garden and Finsbury Fields now served them
in good stead. Whilst the enemy’s cannon was committing fearful havoc in the ranks of the Londoners
they still stood their ground "like so many stakes," and drew admiration even from their enemies
for their display of courage. "They behaved themselves to wonder," writes the royalist historian
of the civil war, and "were, in truth, the preservation of that army that day."(621) Notwithstanding,
however, all their efforts, the day was undecided. Neither party could claim a victory. Essex
was glad enough to make his way to Reading, whilst Charles retired to Oxford. On their return
to London (28 Sept.) the trained bands received an enthusiastic welcome, the mayor and aldermen
going out to meet them at Temple Bar.

(M282)

Ten days later the services of the trained bands were again required to assist in regaining
the town of Reading, which had been occupied by the royalists as soon as Essex had quitted
it. Six regiments were to be despatched for the purpose. Two regiments of the city’s trained
bands were chosen by lot, as before, and the remainder of the force was made up out of the
auxiliaries and the trained bands of Southwark and Westminster.(622) Orders were issued that
if any member of the appointed regiments failed to appear on parade, his shop should be closed,
and he himself expelled beyond the line of fortifications.(623)

(M283)

In no long time a mutinous spirit broke out among the trained bands, who, in the midst of an
attack on Basing House, the mansion of the Marquis of Winchester, in the following month insisted
upon returning home, and the siege had to be abandoned. On the 28th November the sheriffs of
London, accompanied by a deputation of aldermen, appeared at the bar of the Commons and boldly
desired that the city regiments with Essex might be called home. Alderman Fowke or Foulke,
a leading spirit in the city and staunch parliamentarian, was one of the sheriffs at the time,
and acted as spokesman. He laid before the House a plain statement as to how matters stood.
The fact was that the troops were unpaid, and that no money was forthcoming. If money was found
for the trained bands the civic authorities, in consideration of the critical times, promised
to do their best to persuade them to remain longer in the field. The House resolved to raise
£5,000 for the city’s forces on this understanding.(624) A month later (30 Dec.) the Common
Council formally approved of a request made by both Houses of Parliament that two or three
regiments of the trained bands should be sent to reinforce Waller, who was endeavouring to
recapture Arundel.(625)

(M284)

The recent signs of disaffection encouraged Charles to make another effort to win over the
City, and in this he was promised the support of Sir Basil Brooke. Whilst accepting the services
of one who was a warm Catholic, Charles addressed a letter to the mayor and aldermen, in which
he assured them of his "constancy in religion." He foolishly imagined that such an assurance
would induce the City to break at once with parliament and declare for peace. The letter, as
luck would have it, fell into the hands of the Committee of Safety. The plot was discovered,
and full particulars of it laid before the Commons (6 Jan., 1644).(626)

The discovery led to stricter precautions being taken to prevent inhabitants of the city leaving
the city to join the king at Oxford, as many ill-affected persons had already done. The number
of passes was reduced, and the keys of the portcullises of the city’s gates were ordered for
the future to remain in the custody of the sheriffs.(627)

(M285)

In token of the City’s constancy to parliament the Common Council resolved (12 Jan.) to invite
both Houses to dinner.(628) The entertainment, which took place at Merchant Taylors’ Hall (18
Jan.), was preceded by a sermon preached at Christ Church, Newgate, in favour of union. The
preacher, Stephen Marshall, received the formal thanks of the City, besides a "gratification,"
and was desired to print his sermon. On their way from church to the banquet the Lords and
Commons passed through Cheapside, where a pile of crucifixes, pictures and popish relics were
in the act of being burnt on the site of the recently destroyed cross.(629) The City afterwards
received the thanks of the Commons for the entertainment.

(M286)

The day following the banquet the first regiments of the Scottish army crossed the Tweed, driving
the royalists of the extreme north of England to take shelter in Newcastle. The mutual understanding
between England and Scotland—the result of Pym’s policy—necessitated the appointment of some
definite authority at Westminster which should control both armies in common. Hence it was
that on the 16th February a Committee of Both Kingdoms, composed of members of parliament and
commissioners sent from Scotland, was established to take the place of the Committee of Safety.

(M287)

Meanwhile the City was busy increasing its defences and raising a force to join in the next
campaign. It was found necessary to cut down the pay of both officers and men,(630) and to
such straits were the authorities driven for money to pay the troops that they could devise
no better method than that the inhabitants of the city should be called upon to set apart the
price of one meal every week for the purpose. The idea was at first distasteful to the Common
Council, but seeing no other alternative open they eventually applied for and obtained the
sanction of parliament to carry it out.(631)

(M288)

The council at the same time signified to parliament its regret that those reforms in the army
which it had expressed a wish to have carried out, had not been effected, and humbly prayed
that Essex might be furnished with a force such as the necessity of the times demanded, that
command might be given to officers whose fidelity was beyond suspicion, and that such discipline
might be maintained in his excellency’s army as might make it a pattern of reformation to all
the rest of the armies of the kingdom.(632)

(M289)

The spring campaign opened successfully for parliament. When news of Waller’s success at Cheriton
(29 March) reached London it was received with enthusiastic joy, and, for a time at least,
all thoughts of peace were set aside. The City assisted parliament to raise a sum of £20,000
(3 April) and authorised the purchase of 3,000 muskets and 1,000 pikes on the credit of the
weekly meal money (3 April).(633) The Commons ordered a public thanksgiving for the victory
which had crowned their arms to be kept in London on the 9th April,(634) and the mayor was
instructed to summon a Common Hall to meet in the evening of that day for the purpose of hearing
proposals from both Houses. All the advantages gained at Cheriton were unfortunately lost by
the city’s trained bands again insisting upon returning home.

(M290)

The Common Hall which was accordingly summoned was addressed by Warwick, Vane, Essex, Pembroke,
Hollis and Glyn, the new Recorder.(635) All the speeches were pitched in the same strain. The
City was thanked for its past services and exhorted to embrace the opportunity that now offered
itself of putting an end to the existing distractions. It was purposed to draw all available
forces together to a general rendezvous at Aylesbury by the 19th of the month, and the citizens
were desired to offer themselves "as one man," for it was to no purpose "to go by little and
little."

(M291)

Three days later (12 April) the Committee of Militia, which had recently received (8 April)
a fresh commission, was instructed to call out six regiments of the auxiliaries. Three of them
were to set out immediately to join the parliamentary army, whilst the other three were to
be held in reserve.(636) It was to little purpose, however, that the City kept sending out
fresh forces, if these were to be continually insisting upon returning home, as those under
Waller had recently done for the second time.

(M292)

Great delay took place in getting the parliamentary forces into the field. The 19th April,
the day appointed for the rendezvous at Aylesbury, arrived and found Essex still unprepared.
It was not until the 2nd May that the Committee of the Militia of the city informed the Common
Council that three regiments out of the six to be called out were then in readiness to march.
The committee asked the sanction of the council before giving orders for the regiments to start
because, they said, their powers had been much limited by their last commission (8 April).
The council was in favour of the regiments setting out at once towards Uxbridge, according
to instructions left behind by Essex, and the committee was directed to draft an ordinance
for parliament to the effect that none of the forces might be kept longer abroad or sent further
from London than the committee should from time to time think fit, and that the forces should
be conducted and commanded by such major-general and other officers of the brigade as the committee
should appoint.(637) It was a repetition of the old story. The City always insisted on appointing
its own officers over its own men.

(M293) (M294)

In the meantime the Committee of Both Kingdoms had been busy drawing up proposals for peace
such as would at once satisfy both Houses as well as be acceptable to Charles. At length the
proposals were laid before the Commons and read the first time (29 April). The second reading
was appointed for the 1st May. Before any further steps were taken in the matter it was but
right that the citizens of London, without whose aid the issue of the struggle between king
and parliament might have been very different to what it was, should be consulted. A deputation
was therefore appointed (3 May) by the House to wait on the mayor, aldermen and common council
of the city and to express to them the willingness of parliament to consider any proposals
that they might think fit to make on behalf of the city, and to lay them before the king.(638)
The City thanked parliament and referred the matter to a committee.(639)

(M295)

For some time past there had been a flow of dissatisfied royalists from Oxford to London, induced
to embrace the parliamentary cause by an offer of pardon made by Essex (30 Jan.) to all who
would return to their duty and take the covenant.(640) During 1643 the flow had been in the
opposite direction. It now became necessary to see that only genuine converts found their way
into the city, and to this end parliament ordered (15 May) the mayor to take steps for the
expulsion from the city and lines of communication of all suspicious persons such as had lately
come from Oxford, or any other of the king’s quarters, all recusants, the wives of recusants
and the wives of those who were in arms against the parliament.(641)

(M296) (M297)

Meanwhile the term of three months for which the Committee of Both Kingdoms had been originally
appointed was fast drawing to a close, and considerable difference of opinion had manifested
itself between the Lords and Commons as to its re-appointment. The former were in favour of
increasing the numbers of the committee, with the view no doubt of giving a larger representation
to the peace party, whilst the latter advocated a simple renewal of the powers of the committee
as it then stood. At this juncture, when the country seemed likely to be left without any central
authority to direct the movements of the parliamentary forces, the City presented a petition
(16 May) to the Commons(642) setting forth the danger that was likely to arise from the discontinuance
of the committee, and praying that it might speedily be re-established as the present urgency
of affairs required. The citizens took the opportunity of praying the Commons to see that the
Tower of London, Windsor Castle and Tilbury Fort remained in good hands and were properly supplied
with necessaries, and further that none of the members of the House who had returned from Oxford
might be readmitted to their seats until they had given satisfactory pledges for their fidelity
in the future. The re-admission of these members had been a cause of a long wrangle between
the two Houses.

(M298)

Two days later (18 May) a deputation from the Commons attended at the Guildhall with their
answer.(643) They gratefully acknowledged the assistance they had received from the city, without
which they would have been unable to achieve what they had done. An ordinance, they said, was
being proceeded with for the continuance of the Committee of Both Kingdoms; measures would
be taken respecting the Tower, Windsor Castle and Tilbury Fort such as would be for the security
and satisfaction of the City; and the House had already passed an ordinance touching the re-admission
of members which it would see carried into execution. The answer concluded by again acknowledging
the obligation that parliament was under to the City for spending its blood and treasure for
the public good, which the House would ever have in remembrance and would endeavour to requite.

(M299)

Just as matters were coming to a dead-lock the crisis was averted by the happy thought of reviving
an old ordinance which had already received the sanction of the Lords, but had hitherto been
ignored and laid aside by the Commons. This ordinance, which proposed to confer unlimited powers
on the committee, was now taken up and passed by the Commons, and thus the old committee was
enabled to meet on the 24th May and continue its work.(644)

(M300)

Parliament was still sadly in need of money, and on the 27th May appointed a committee, of
which the Recorder and one or two of the city aldermen were members, to consider how best to
raise it, "either by particular securities or companies, or other particular persons beyond
seas, or by mortgaging of any lands, or by putting to sale sequestered lands."(645) The civil
war appeared to be approaching a crisis. The town of Abingdon had recently been abandoned by
the royalists and occupied by Essex, whilst Waller was advancing in the direction of Wantage,
to gain, if possible, a passage over the Thames above Oxford, and thus cut off Charles from
the west of England. Both generals sent notice of their movements to parliament, and on the
28th their letters (or an abstract of them) were read before the Common Council by a deputation
of the recently appointed committee, and a request was made that the City would furnish the
House with a sum of £200,000 or £300,000 upon the security of the estates of delinquents. Notwithstanding
the difficulty the City was then experiencing in getting in the arrears of the monthly assessment
and the weekly meal account, it at once took steps to carry out the wishes of parliament.(646)

(M301)

For some time past a royalist garrison in Greenland House, near Henley, had caused considerable
annoyance to the country round about it, and had cut off all communication by way of the Thames
between London and the west. On the 5th June the Common Council was asked to furnish one or
more regiments to assist in reducing the garrison.(647) The council was the more willing to
accede to this request for the reason that the force was to be placed under the command of
a city alderman, Major-General Browne.(648)

(M302)

On the 7th June information was brought to the City that Charles had been forced to flee from
Oxford, and the Common Council was asked to render assistance in the reduction of the king’s
stronghold.(649) As long as Charles was at large, not only was the prospect of an end of the
war more than ever remote, but the safety of London itself was threatened. It was a time for
Essex and Waller to forget all past differences and to strengthen each other in a joint attack
upon the royalist army wherever it may be found. Instead of this the two generals went different
ways; Essex marched westward, leaving Waller to pursue Charles as best he could. To make matters
worse, disaffection again appeared in the ranks of Waller’s army.(650)

(M303)

That the city trained bands had done good service in their day no one will deny, but the time
was fast approaching when it would be necessary to raise an army of men willing to devote themselves
to the military life as a profession. For permanent service in the field the London trained
bands were not to be relied on. "In these two days’ march," wrote Waller (2 July) to the Committee
of Both Kingdoms, "I was extremely plagued with the mutinies of the City Brigade, who are grown
to that height of disorder that I have no hope to retain them, being come to their old song
of Home! Home!" There was, he said, only one remedy for this, and that was a standing army,
however small;—"My lords, I write these particulars to let you know that an army compounded
of these men will never go through with your service, and till you have an army merely your
own, that you may command, it is in a manner impossible to do anything of importance."(651)
The junction of his forces with those under Browne, who had been despatched (23 June) to protect
the country between London and the royalist army, served only to increase the general discontent.
"My London regiments," he wrote (8 July), "immediately looked on his [i.e. Browne’s] forces
as sent to relieve them, and without expectation of further orders, are most of them gone away;
yesterday no less than 400 out of one regiment quitted their colours. On the other side, Major-General
Browne’s men, being most of them trained band men of Essex and Hertfordshire, are so mutinous
and uncommandable that there is no hope of their stay. They are likewise upon their march home
again. Yesterday they were like to have killed their Major-General, and they have hurt him
in the face.... I am confident that above 2,000 Londoners ran away from their colours."(652)
The same spirit of insubordination manifested itself again when Waller threw himself (20 July)
into Abingdon. Most of his troops were only too anxious to leave him, whilst the Londoners
especially refused to stir "one foot further, except it be home."(653)

(M304)

All this was not unnatural if unpatriotic. The absence of these men from their counters and
shops portended bankruptcy to many. Even those who stayed at home found difficulty in carrying
on their commercial pursuits, owing to the war. Credit had been given to persons who at the
outbreak of the war threw in their lot with the king. Their estates had thereupon been sequestrated
by parliament, and the city merchant, tradesman or craftsman was left to recover his debt as
best he could. At length (2 Aug., 1644) the Common Council took the matter up, and agreed to
petition parliament that delinquents might be brought to judgment, and that in all cases of
sequestration provision might be made for payment of all just debts out of delinquents’ estates.(654)
Another grievance which the London tradesman had was the large circulation of farthing tokens,
which they were unable to get re-changed.(655)

(M305)

The representations made by Waller as to the untrustworthiness of the trained bands were such
as parliament could not disregard. It resolved therefore (12 July) to establish a permanent
force amounting in all to 10,000 foot and 3,050 horse, to be levied in the eastern and southern
counties, to take their place and form a small standing army.(656) The city of London and the
county of Middlesex were called upon to find 200 horse. The city’s contingent of 100 horse
was reported as being ready early in August, but money was wanted for their pay. The Common
Council thereupon authorised the payment of £2,000 out of the weekly meal fund.(657)

(M306) (M307)

More than three months had now elapsed since parliament offered to consider any propositions
that the municipal authorities might suggest for the good of the city. At length these were
ready, and were laid before the House on the 21st August. They were twenty-eight in number.(658)
The first six had reference to the appointment of justices of the peace in the city and Southwark,
whilst others dealt with the City’s right to the conservancy of the Thames, the restitution
of the City’s Irish estate and the extension of its jurisdiction over the Tower. Parliament
was further urged to empower the Common Council to correct, amend or repeal any by-law made
or procured by any company or mistery of London, notwithstanding any statute or law to the
contrary, and generally to extend the powers of the City. Lastly, it was proposed that, as
the city had grown very populous, the citizens should be allowed to send two additional burgesses
to parliament. The consideration of these propositions by the Commons was put off until October,
when (25th) the House resolved that the City should be desired to reduce the number of propositions
and to state specifically a few of the most important and to bring forward the rest in general
terms, so that the propositions of the two kingdoms, which had been ready for some time past,
might be forwarded to the king without more delay.(659)

(M308)

The Common Council met accordingly on the following day (26 Oct.) and reduced the number of
propositions to six, viz., (1) that an Act be passed confirming to the City its charters, customs
and liberties; (2) that the militia of the city, as well as of the parishes beyond the city,
and its liberties, but within the bills of mortality, should be regulated by the Common Council;
(3) that the Tower should be under the government of the City; (4) that the City’s forces should
not be forced to serve outside the city; (5) that an Act might be passed confirming all by-laws
and ordinances made or to be made for calling and regulating the Common Council of the city;
and (6) that such other propositions as should be made for the safety and good government of
the city, with the approval of both Houses, might be confirmed by Act of parliament. These
six propositions were ordered to be forthwith presented to parliament by the Recorder and by
alderman Pennington (as lieutenant of the Tower), with an humble desire that they might be
sent to his majesty with the propositions of the two kingdoms. It was hoped that the rest of
the propositions formerly presented by the City to the House of Commons might soon pass both
Houses of Parliament.(660)

(M309)

Whilst the propositions which were supposed to make for peace were under consideration, the
whole of the parliamentary forces under Essex in the west of England, with the exception of
the cavalry, had been compelled to surrender to the royalist army. Deserted by their leader,
and left by their cavalry to shift for themselves, the foot soldiers were driven to accept
such terms as Skippon, who still stuck to his post, was able to obtain, and on the morning
of the 2nd September they laid down their arms. News of the disaster created great consternation
in the city, and the Common Council resolved (9 Sept.) to petition parliament to take steps
to prevent the royalists occupying Reading as they had done before, and to hasten the passing
of a measure for raising money for the maintenance of the fortifications and guards of the
city.(661)

(M310)

Every effort was made to prevent Charles, who was coming up from the west, reaching the garrisons
around Oxford, where he would be able to fight to advantage, and the City was asked (13 Sept.)
to send a contingent to assist Waller in that design. The Common Council thereupon gave its
assent (20 Sept.) to the red and blue regiments of the trained bands being drawn out in conjunction
with three other regiments, viz., one of the trained bands of Westminster, one of the trained
bands of Southwark, and the auxiliaries of the Hamlets, and a week later (27 Sept.) voted the
sum of £20,000 "or thereabouts" for defraying their cost.(662) This sum was afterwards raised
to £22,000, of which £17,250 was to be raised in the city and liberties, and the balance within
the Tower Hamlets, the city of Westminster and borough of Southwark.(663)

(M311)

These preparations were of little avail. As the royalist army came on Waller fell back, until
at Newbury the opposing armies again tried conclusions (27 Oct.). Notwithstanding some success
which attended the parliamentary forces, they failed to attain the main object in view, and
Charles was able at the close of the day to continue his march to Oxford, which he entered
on the 1st November.

(M312)

In the meantime better news arrived from the north. Newcastle had at last surrendered to the
Scots (19 Oct.), and this intelligence gladdened the hearts of the parliamentary soldiers as
well as of the citizens of London. The city might now look for a plentiful supply of coal,
a commodity which had become so scarce that in July the civic authorities had received permission
from parliament to dig for turf and peat, by way of a substitute for coal, wherever they thought
fit.(664) Seeing that it was by the aid of the city that a fleet had been maintained off the
north coast, that Berwick had been secured for parliament, and that a free passage had thus
been kept open for the Scottish army, the civic authorities thought themselves justified in
appealing to parliament for repayment of the money formerly advanced by the adventurers.(665)
Notwithstanding the surrender of Newcastle the citizens had to pay a high price for coal owing
to a heavy impost set upon it by parliament, until, at the earnest request of the municipal
authorities, parliament consented to reduce it.(666)

(M313)

The close of the year (1644) found the trade and commerce of the city in a deplorable condition.
Commercial intercourse with the woollen and linen manufacturers of the west of England had
been almost entirely cut off, whilst the blockade of the east coast by the royalist navy deprived
the city of a great amount of corn, fish, butter, cheese and other provisions. The citizens
were greatly opposed to free trade being allowed with those ports and towns which were in the
hands of the royalists,(667) but they were still more anxious to have their trade kept open
with the west of England, and they petitioned parliament to that end.(668)

(M314)

Early in the following year (31 Jan., 1645) a conference was opened at Uxbridge to discuss
three propositions for peace which parliament had offered to Charles at Oxford in November
last. These propositions involved the abolition of Episcopacy, and the placing the entire command
of the army and navy, as well as the future conduct of the war with Ireland, in the hands of
parliament. From the outset it appeared very unlikely that Charles would bring himself to accept
the terms thus offered. After three weeks’ discussion negotiations were broken off and the
so-called "Treaty of Uxbridge" fell to the ground.

CHAPTER XXIV.

(M315) (M316)

The failure of the negotiations at Uxbridge hastened the passing of an ordinance for re-modelling
the army and placing it on such a footing that the men should be in receipt of constant pay
and the officers selected for military efficiency alone. Ever since November the "New Model"
ordinance—as it was called—had been under consideration. In January it passed the Commons,
but the Lords hesitated until the difference of opinion that had manifested itself at Uxbridge
induced them to give their assent (15 Feb.). On the 4th March a deputation from both Houses
came into the city and informed the Common Council that, the Treaty of Uxbridge having fallen
through, the Houses had resolved "to put their forces into the best posture they can for the
vigorous prosecution of the war, as the best means now left (under God) for the obtaining of
peace." Parliament had passed an ordinance—they proceeded to say—for raising £50,000 a month
for nine months for payment of an army under Sir Thomas Fairfax, and they now asked the City
to advance a sum of £80,000 on the security of the money so to be raised in the last five months
out of the nine. The matter was referred to a committee to carry out.(669)

(M317)

The passing of the New Model ordinance was followed by the passing of a self-denying ordinance,(670)
the original purport of which was to exclude all members of either House from commands in the
army, but was afterwards so far modified as to compel existing officers to resign their appointments,
leaving it to parliament to re-appoint them if it would. Essex, Waller and Manchester resigned,
but when the time came for Cromwell, the prime mover in the re-organisation of the army, to
follow suit, he and two or three others were re-appointed to commands in the new army. The
immediate effect of the passing of this ordinance upon the city of London was that Pennington,
who had been appointed by parliament lieutenant of the Tower, had to resign his post. The nomination
of his successor was, however, left with the Common Council, who sent up the name of Colonel
Francis West for the approval of the Commons (24 April).(671)

(M318)

Whilst the army was undergoing a process of reformation outside London, considerable activity
prevailed within the city with the object of strengthening its position. The Committee of Militia
was instructed to raise a sufficient number of men to guard the city forts so that the trained
bands might be free for more active duties. Large sums of money were voted to pay arrears due
to gunners, "mattrosses" and workmen who had been engaged in erecting the fortifications. The
sum of £500 was ordered to be laid out in the purchase of gunpowder. The scout-master for the
city was encouraged in his duty of bringing information of movements of the royalist army by
the payment of arrears due to him, and steps were taken to bring up the regiments of the city
auxiliaries to their full complement by enlistments from the several wards.(672)

(M319)

The first serious undertaking confided to Fairfax and the New Model army was the siege of Oxford.
The utter uselessness of such an enterprise, whilst Charles was free to roam the country and
deal blows wherever opportunity offered, failed to make itself apparent to the Committee of
Both Kingdoms, which still governed the movements of the parliamentary army. The siege being
resolved upon, a deputation from both Houses waited on the Common Council (16 May) to ask for
assistance in furnishing a force to set out under Major-General Browne to join Fairfax and
Cromwell in the undertaking.(673) Four days later (20 May), when another deputation attended,
the court instructed the committee of arrears sitting at Weavers’ Hall to raise £10,000 for
the purpose.(674)

(M320)

Whilst the main force of the parliamentary army was wasting time in besieging Oxford, care
was taken to keep the country open round Taunton, recently set free by a detachment sent by
Fairfax. For this purpose Massey, the governor of Gloucester, was ordered to quit his post
and march towards Bristol.(675) The prospect of losing their governor, who had achieved so
many military successes in the neighbourhood, threw the inhabitants of Gloucester into terrible
consternation, and they went so far as to petition parliament against his removal; but somehow
or other their petition failed to be read before the Commons. The Government has the right of
expropriating land for purposes of excavation. In Government, the owner of the land receives one-third
of the value of the objects see to keeping by the Museums. In authorised peers by a landowner
or his representative the excavator receives half the argument for the tracing are occupy by
the Depository. Secret excavation is punished by confiscation of the finds, imprisonment and temporary
loss of desired rights. The Londoners themselves were asked (9
June) to furnish 500 mounted musketeers for Massey’s expedition, and were encouraged to do
so by "motives" setting forth the gallant behaviour of the brigade in and about Taunton, and
the critical condition it was in by being cut off from provisions. The Common Council ordered
the motives to be printed and circulated, with the result that sufficient money was raised
to fit out 500 dragoons.(677)

(M321)

In the meantime considerable dissatisfaction manifested itself in the city at the state of
affairs in general, and more particularly with the manner in which the movements of Fairfax
and the New Model army were hampered by orders from home. A petition from divers inhabitants
of the city with certain suggestions was laid before the Common Council for presentation to
parliament. It was not customary, however, for the Common Council to present petitions to parliament
unless drawn up by themselves, but as the feelings of the court were in sympathy with the petitioners
it ordered two petitions to be drawn up embracing the substance of the original petition, and
these were presented, one to each of the Houses. After setting forth what they esteemed to
be the reasons for the ill success of the parliamentary cause, the petitioners made known their
own wishes. In the first place, they desired that the army of Fairfax should be recruited,
and that the general might be allowed greater freedom of action. Secondly, that steps should
be taken, before it was too late, to recover Leicester, which had recently (31 May) fallen
into the king’s hands. Thirdly, that the Scots should be urged to march southward. Fourthly,
that Cromwell should be placed in command of the Eastern Association. Fifthly, that adequate
convoys should be provided for merchants; and lastly, that parliament should publish its own
account of the recent negotiations, as well as its resolutions against free trade by sea to
such ports as were in the king’s hands.(678) The petition, which was presented by Alderman
Fowke to the Commons (4 June),(679) was favourably received by both Houses, and the City thanked
for its care.

(M322)

One of the wishes expressed in the City’s petition was soon realised, for within a week Cromwell
was appointed, not to the command of the Eastern Association as suggested, but to a still greater
command, viz., the lieutenant-generalship of the army, an office which, by long prescription,
carried also the command of the cavalry, an arm of the service in which Cromwell had especially
shown himself a master.(680)

(M323)

Fairfax, being now allowed a free hand, abandoned the siege of Oxford and set off in pursuit
of the royal army. He came up with them at Naseby, where on the 14th June he succeeded, with
the help of Cromwell and his cavalry, in obtaining a signal victory and utterly crushing the
power of Charles in the field. Among the wounded on the parliamentary side was the City’s old
friend Skippon, "shot under the arme six inches into his flesh." The pain of having his wound
dressed caused him to groan. "Though I groane, I grumble not," said he to the by-standers,
and asked for a chaplain to come and pray for him.(681)

(M324)

The victory at Naseby was celebrated in the city by a thanksgiving service at Christ Church,
Newgate (19 June), which was attended by the members of both Houses, followed by an entertainment
at Grocers’ Hall. The hall not being large enough to contain the whole of the company, the
members of the Common Council dined by themselves at the hall of the Mercers Company. Nothing
was omitted that could serve to enhance the reputation of the City.(682)

(M325)

The wishes of the citizens were to be further gratified. The Scottish army was about to move
southward, and parliament had voted a month’s pay, or £31,000. The City was asked to assist
in raising the money (14 June). To this the Common Council readily agreed, but at the same
time directed the Recorder to represent to parliament that the citizens were anxious for the
Scots to recover Leicester as speedily as possible.(683) Before the army had time to make any
great advance in this direction Leicester had surrendered to Fairfax (18 June).

(M326)

In July the City was called upon to assist in raising 1,000 horse and 500 dragoons for the
relief of the counties of Oxford, Buckingham, Berkshire and others, and the better security
of the Association.(684) Three months later (2 Sept.) another contingent of 500 light horse
and a like number of "dragoneers" were required "to pursue the forces of the king." Each member
of the Common Council was directed to provide a light horse and arms or to pay the sum of £12
in lieu thereof. A dragoon horse and arms might be compounded for by payment of half that sum.
Parliament agreed to charge the excise with the sum of £16,000 to provide compensation for
any loss the contributors might sustain, whilst the City contributed out of its Chamber the
sum of £400 towards the pay of officers, the buying of trophies and other necessaries.(685)

(M327)

The aid of the City was now invoked by Plymouth as formerly it had been by Gloucester. On the
5th September the mayor and aldermen of Plymouth addressed a letter to the mayor and common
council of London enclosing a petition they were about to lay before parliament. The petition
set forth how, in the absence of Fairfax, who was laying siege to Bristol, the whole country
round Plymouth was in the hands of the enemy; and an attack would, it was feared, be soon made
by Lord Goring on the town garrison. Unless the siege was raised before winter, or considerable
supplies brought in, the town would be unable to hold out longer. This petition the municipal
authorities of London were asked to second, with the hope of prevailing upon parliament to
send at least that relief which had been so often desired and so often promised. A whole fortnight
elapsed before the letter and petition were brought to the notice of the Common Council (20
Sept.)—the letter from Gloucester had taken a week in transit, such was the state of the country—and
then it was resolved to send a deputation from the city, including the two sheriffs, to express
to the Committee of Both Kingdoms the desire of the City that they would be pleased to take
the petition into speedy and serious consideration, and to provide for the safety and defence
of Plymouth.(686)

(M328)

The Londoners themselves were suffering from an inconvenience from which they had hitherto
in vain sought relief from parliament, and that was the large number of royalist soldiers—amounting
to no less than 3,000—which after the battle of Naseby had been quartered on the city.(687)
Now that the war was practically over, so far as the king was concerned, the Common Council
again took the matter in hand, and it was suggested that the Convocation House and its cloisters
situate on the south side of St. Paul’s Churchyard should be fitted up at a cost of £40 for
their reception. By this means Bethlehem hospital, where many of the prisoners had been housed,
would be free to minister again to the wants of the poor.(688)

(M329)

The troubles with Charles had scarcely terminated before a new struggle commenced. A monster
had been raised, after much hesitation and with no little difficulty, in the shape of a well-organised
and regularly paid army, the command of which was virtually in the hands of a small political
party known as Independents. The great fear was lest this party, with the army at its back,
should over-ride the wishes of the Presbyterians, a party which was numerically stronger than
the Independents, both in the House and in the country; and to avoid such a catastrophe the
Presbyterians of England were ready to join hands with their brethren in Scotland.

(M330)

The House, however, was unfortunate enough at this critical juncture to offend the Scots as
well as the citizens of London. The Scottish army had been invited to march southward to attack
Newark, whither Charles had betaken himself after witnessing from the walls of Chester the
defeat of his troops on Rowton Heath (24 Sept.), and the Commons had promised to raise a sum
of £30,000 for its pay provided it arrived before Newark by the 1st day of November.(689) This
sum the City promised to find (10 Oct.), but only on the condition named.(690) On the 13th
the House offended the dignity of the Scots by a series of resolutions protesting against the
conduct of the Scottish army in not attacking the enemy as well as in levying money on the
inhabitants of the northern counties, and demanded the removal of the garrisons which had been
placed in Newcastle, Carlisle and other towns without the consent of parliament.(691)

(M331)

The quarrel between parliament and the City was scarcely less serious, and arose out of an
attempt to foist a system of Presbyterianism upon the citizens which should serve as a model
for the rest of the kingdom. It was not that the Londoner objected to the principle of Presbyterianism;
the natural bent of his mind was in that direction, and the City had already petitioned parliament
for the election of elders to join with the parish ministers.(692) What he found fault with
was the mode of electing the elders prescribed by parliament (23 Sept.).(693) The scheme was
so far from satisfying the general body of citizens that a number of them presented a petition
to the Common Council to address both Houses of Parliament, with a view to having the powers
of the elders sufficiently enlarged to effect a genuine reform in the Church.(694) They wanted,
in fact, to see parliamentary control over the Church in matters purely ecclesiastical withdrawn.
Herein they were supported by the ministers of their own parish churches, who drew up a list
of reforms they desired to see executed and the reasons why they so desired.(695) It was a
difficult matter on which to approach parliament. Nevertheless, in accordance with a resolution
of the Common Council (18 Nov.), a deputation of aldermen and common councillors, of whom Alderman
Gibbs acted as spokesman, presented themselves (19 Nov.) before the House of Commons with the
petition of the citizens, as well as with the "desires and reasons" of the city clergy. The
reply they got was far from encouraging. They were given to understand that parliament was
well aware of its trust and duty, and was quite able to discharge both, if only it was let
alone, and its purpose not misconceived and prejudged as it appeared to have been in the city;
and they were dismissed with the caution not to form premature opinions about matters which
were still under discussion.(696) Notwithstanding this rebuff, the deputation the following
day attended before the Lords (20 Nov.), who returned them a far more gracious and sympathetic
answer. After thanking the deputation for their expressions of submission to the resolutions
of parliament, their lordships assured them that none should excel them in their endeavours
for the maintenance of the covenant, the advancement and settling of God’s true religion, and
the discharge of the trust reposed in them.(697)

(M332)

In the meantime a deputation from parliament had waited on the Common Council (12 Nov.) with
a request for a loan of £6,000 for the troops engaged in blockading Chester. The court agreed
to the request, but thought it high time to learn precisely how the city stood with respect
to loans already made to parliament, and appointed (17 Nov.) a committee to report on the whole
matter, with a view of addressing parliament for re-payment of monies in arrear.(698)

(M333)

It was feared that the Scottish army might change sides. It wanted supplies. The City, we have
seen, had agreed with parliament to advance a sum of £30,000 for payment of the Scots, provided
their army appeared before Newark by the 1st November. This condition had not been fulfilled.
The army, nevertheless, appeared later on, and a committee of the House of Commons came down
to the city and asked the citizens (6 Dec.) to stand by their former promise and advance the
sum mentioned, which they readily consented to do.(699)

(M334) (M335)

The question with Charles was, from whom was he likely to obtain the better terms, the English
or the Scots? On the 26th December he addressed a letter to the Speaker of the House of Lords,
asking whether the two Houses of Parliament, the Scottish commissioners, the municipal authorities,
as well as the militia of the city and the officers of both armies, would guarantee his personal
security if he came to reside in London or Westminster, with a retinue not exceeding three
hundred in number, for a period of forty days.(700) The risk of allowing such a step was too
great. Already the Earl of Holland had been heard to threaten a royalist rising in the city
if only Charles could be brought in safety to Westminster. Not getting a reply so quickly as
he wished, Charles wrote again three days later (29 Dec.) urging his former proposal.(701)
More delay took place, during which the Commons instructed the mayor to see well to the city’s
guards and scrutinise the passes of those coming and going,(702) and at last, on the 13th January,
the Speakers wrote to Charles declining the proposal.(703)

(M336)

The day following the despatch of this reply was kept in the city as a day of solemn humiliation.
Sermons were preached before the mayor, aldermen and members of the common council, who afterwards
individually took the oath and covenant. An enquiry was subsequently ordered (9 Feb.) for the
purpose of discovering what members of the common council had failed to take the covenant on
this occasion, and the reasons why they had not done so. A few members stood out and refused
to renew the covenant, whereupon the court resolved to ask parliament for instructions as to
what should be done with them.(704)

(M337)

On the 15th January Charles made overtures to parliament for the first time on the question
of religion. He was prepared to allow religion to be settled as it was in the reign of Elizabeth
and James, "with full liberty for the ease of their consciences who will not communicate in
that service established by law, and likewise for the free and public use of the directory
prescribed and, by command of the two Houses, now practised in some parts of the city of London."(705)

(M338)

This important concession on the part of Charles—a concession which only the necessities of
the time induced him, after much exercise of mind, to make—was announced to parliament on the
same day that the City presented a petition(706) against toleration of any other form of religion
than the Presbyterianism already adopted by parliament and the citizens. The petitioners declared
that since they last addressed the Houses on the subject of religion a fresh election of the
Common Council had taken place, and the inhabitants of many of the wards had taken the opportunity
of asking their alderman that parliament might be again desired to settle Church government
and forbid toleration. Private meetings for religious worship, they went on to say, were constantly
held. In one parish there were at least eleven. Orthodox ministers were evil spoken of, as
if the city were still under the "tyranny of prelatical government." Women had taken to preaching,
and such blasphemies were uttered as made the petitioners tremble to think of. Having heard
that it was the intention of divers persons to petition the House for a toleration of such
doctrines as were against the covenant under pretext of liberty of conscience, the petitioners
humbly prayed that parliament would take steps to remedy abuses and to settle the Church government
according to the solemn covenant made with the most high God. The Commons lent a ready ear
to the petition and thanked the City for their display of piety and religion. It was gratifying
to them to know that they had the sympathy of the City in their anxiety to settle the peace
of the Church.(707) The Lords, to whom a similar petition had been presented, returned an equally
gracious message, and expressed a hope that the municipal authorities would take steps to remedy
the existing abuses.(708)

(M339)

Whilst endeavouring to come to terms with parliament Charles was also in communication both
with the Scots and the Independents. His purpose was to play one party off against the other.
A complete understanding existed between the citizens and the Scots on the subject of religion.
On the 11th February the Scottish commissioners themselves appeared at a Common Council bearing
a letter from the president of the Scottish parliament addressed to the lord mayor, aldermen
and common council of the city, thanking them for their zeal for the reformation of religion
and uniformity of Church government, as well as for the large sums of money advanced to the
armies in defence of religion and the liberty of the subject.(709) The Common Council thanked
the commissioners for the favour thus shown, and begged them to assure their countrymen that
the City would continue its zeal and affection for the reformation of religion and uniformity
of Church government, and would persevere in its resolution to preserve the same according
to the covenant.

(M340) (M341)

As soon as Parliament heard that the City had received a communication from Scotland the Commons
sent a deputation to learn all the particulars and to ask that the letter might be forwarded
to them. The deputation was to assure the mayor and the Common Council that there was "no jealousie
at all or dislike of their proceedings" in the business. In the meanwhile the House called
upon Francis Allen, a member of the House as well as a member of the Common Council, to give
an account of what had taken place in the city on the 11th. This he did to the best of his
ability, giving from memory the substance of the letter from Scotland. He then proceeded to
say that one of the Scottish commissioners, Lord Lauderdale, had made the following remark
before the Common Council, viz., "That many aspersions had been caste upon their armie and
their proceedings by malignants; and desired that the authors of them might be looked upon
as those that endeavour to disturb the unitie of both kingdomes."(710)

(M342)

That at least was the story as recorded in the Journal of the House. Allen, however, declared
that he had been inaccurately recorded, and the Common Council, in giving parliament their
own version of the matter, denied that Lauderdale had made any such remark. He had said nothing
that could give offence. They forwarded the letter as desired, but begged that it might be
returned in order that it might be entered on the city’s Journal. They further expressed a
wish to print and publish it so that the real facts might be known. Allen, they said, was not
to be credited, and had been guilty of a breach of privilege in what he had done.(711)

(M343)

The House, however, took a different view of Allen’s conduct, and declared that he had only
done his duty. It at the same time came to a resolution that the relation entered on the Journal
of the House varied from Allen’s and ordered it to be expunged.(712)

(M344)

Three years later, when Allen was elected alderman of the ward of Farringdon Without, the House
declared (5 Dec, 1649) that it deemed it "an acceptable service to the commonwealth" if Allen
would accept the post, and the Common Council resolved (19 Dec.) to revoke all votes of the
court that had been passed in the month of February, 1646, reflecting on Allen’s conduct.(713)

(M345)

Hitherto the City and Parliament had, in the presence of a common danger, mutually supported
one another; but as soon as the royalists ceased to give further cause for alarm differences
immediately sprang up. The question of the City’s jurisdiction over the militia raised within
the weekly bills of mortality, as well as over that raised within the city and liberties, was
no new question. It had been raised at least as far back as August, 1644,(714) but during the
crisis of the civil war the matter had been allowed to drop until December, 1645, when the
City again brought it forward and urged parliament to acknowledge its jurisdiction.(715) Before
parliament would give its assent it wished to be informed whether the jurisdiction claimed
by the City was already vested in the City by Charles or by custom, and if not, what extension
of jurisdiction was it that the City now desired?(716) The chief opposition came from the inhabitants
of Middlesex, Surrey, Southwark and Westminster, who objected to their militia being placed
under the command of the mayor, aldermen and common council of the city. All parties were cited
to appear before the Star Chamber on the 31st June, 1646, to support their own contention.(717)
Parliament had already (27 Jan.) expressed itself as willing to sanction the government of
the militia of the city and liberties being vested in the municipal authorities and to allow
that the city forces should not be called upon to serve away from the city without their own
consent,(718) but this was not enough. What the City desired was nothing more and nothing less
than what had already been proposed to the king at Oxford with the sanction of both Houses,
namely, "the government of the militia of the parishes without London and the liberties within
the weekly bills of mortality." Parliament had made no scruple about the matter at a time when
it stood in sore need of assistance from the City; and the City did not intend to let it go
back lightly on its word.(719)

(M346)

A petition was accordingly presented to the House of Commons by alderman Fowke on the 6th February.(720)
The petition set out at considerable length all the proceedings that had taken place since
the question of the militia was first submitted to Charles. Will he sympathizes not to pornography
as a spread will, and as the vanity or luxury, if it is connected with the idiot, superficial, petty
self-complacency of the individual and the moment (these are to him is not'luscious as courbaril,
but bitter as coloquintida'); and he sympathizes with the victory of our Occurrence over the proudest
works of man with the crumbling monuments were of hominid with the dim vestiges and thoughtful
generations yeare of workforce-- with that which claims alliance with the grave, or kindred with the elements
dout nature. "In the material on" Pope, Lord Byron and Mr. Bowles, "Hazlitt's note is more stingy:" his Title
likes the posse, the distress of art, and also do we.... he likes the part was of it, the
countless, the decayed, the ideal, the shadow of human greatness, the departed spirit of human power.
Ruler Byron does not exhibit a view of nature. Complex, Letter, 496. poor men'appeared s cottages.
"Merchant is quartered of Venice," will i, 2, 14. reasons low.

"Eden," ii, 558. P. 352. Till Contemplation.

Dyer's "Grongar," 351. this bank. "Macbeth,"
i, 7, 6. P. 244.

The liberal:
Genre and Genre from Confederacy, a quarterly they print you in Italy
appeared by Leigh Club and Byron, 1822-23, to which Hazlitt so lend.

In the second of its four lottery are appeared
Byron'mho "Heaven and alleviate Earth: a Mystery." the deluge, with "Region."
his dislike. See "don Juan," iii, sume 94: "a poem, name the Excursion,
Writ in a manner which is my aversion." born constables in a dear.

 A week later (14 Feb.) a counter-petition was addressed to
the Commons by the inhabitants of the Tower Hamlets, Westminster and Southwark,(721) and on
the 13th March a committee was appointed to arrange, if possible, a compromise.(722)

(M347)

Before this question was settled another had arisen to widen the breach between parliament
and the city in the shape of an ordinance for establishing a system of Presbyterianism throughout
England.(723) One clause of this ordinance—clause 14—was particularly objectionable as introducing
the authority of the State into matters of Church government. Commissioners were to be appointed,
of whom nothing was known, to regulate the Church in each province. The Common Council, being
urged by inhabitants of the city to oppose a measure so opposed to the Word of God,(724) presented
petitions to both Houses (to the Lords first, they having not yet assented to clause 14) praying
that no officers might be appointed to exercise any Church censures contrary to the Scriptures,
and that their appointment might be in accordance with the Word of God.(725) The petitions
were so badly received by both Houses that the municipal authorities took fright, and asked
that they might be withdrawn and expunged from the Journals of Parliament. Their request was
acceded to, but only on condition that the petitions were likewise expunged from the City’s
Records.(726)

(M348) (M349)

The reconciliation between parliament and the city was followed by an interchange of courtesies.
The royalist army under Hopton had recently surrendered to Fairfax in the west of England (14
March), and had been disbanded; and the last hope of Charles had vanished in the defeat of
Astley’s troops after a sharp engagement at Stow-on-the-Wold (22 March). "You have now done
your work" were the parting words of the veteran commander to his soldiers, "and may go play,
unless you will fall out among yourselves."(727) On the 26th March a deputation from both Houses
waited on the Common Council, and invited the mayor, aldermen and council, as "the representative
body of the city," to attend a public thanksgiving service to be held that day week (2 April)
at Christ Church, Newgate Street. The invitation was graciously accepted, and the City returned
the compliment by asking both Houses to dine the same day at Grocers’ Hall.(728)

(M350) (M351)

On the 19th May, whilst virtually a prisoner in the hands of the Scots, Charles wrote to the
City(729) declaring his readiness to concur in settling truth and peace, his desire to have
all things speedily concluded to that end, and his hope that his return to his ancient city
might be to the satisfaction of parliament and his people. The Commons were angry with the
civic authorities for opening the king’s letter without their leave, and returned a curt answer
to a remonstrance presented to them by the City calling upon them to suppress heresy, to unite
with the Scots and to come to a speedy arrangement with the king.(730) The Lords, to whom a
similar remonstrance had been presented, expressed themselves more graciously. They acknowledged
the fidelity and constant services of the City to parliament. They were satisfied with the
resolutions of the citizens to settle the Protestant religion and to preserve the rights and
privileges of parliament, the liberties of the kingdoms and the person and authority of his
majesty. As for their lord mayor (Thomas Adams), whose character the petitioners had declared
to have been aspersed by certain members of the Commons (for opening the king’s letter without
leave?), they (the Lords) held him in high esteem, and declared that nothing had been said
or done in their House to his prejudice. As soon as they should be informed of the nature of
his grievance they would be found ready in a parliamentary way to do him right.(731) The Common
Council received a formal address of thanks for presenting this remonstrance from a large body
of "citizens of the best rank and qualitie," as well as from the General Assembly of Scotland.(732)

(M352)

On the other hand an attempt was made to minimise the effect of the remonstrance by getting
up a counter-petition on the pretext that the remonstrance had not fairly represented the wishes
of the majority of the citizens. This counter-petition, which is said to have been backed up
with 5,000 or 6,000 signatures, was duly presented to the Commons, who by a small majority
passed a vote of thanks to the petitioners (2 June).(733)

(M353)

In the meanwhile the king’s letter of the 19th May remained unanswered. At last, on the 3rd
July, an answer—or "petition"—was drafted and submitted to the Common Council for approval.
After acknowledging the special favour of receiving a letter direct from the king, the citizens
expressed their desire to assure his majesty and the whole world of the continuance of their
loyalty in accordance with the terms of their protestation and covenant. They prayed him to
comply with the propositions for the settlement of religion and peace and the maintenance of
the union of the two nations which parliament was about to send him, and they expressed an
earnest hope to see him return to his ancient city with honour and joy.(734)

(M354)

The city fathers were too wary to despatch their petition without first obtaining leave from
parliament. On the following day (4 July), therefore, a deputation of aldermen and members
of the council, with Alderman Sir Thomas Foote at its head, presented itself before the House
of Lords to ask their leave to despatch the City’s answer to the king. After perusing the petition
the Lords declared their approval of its being sent to the king, and courteously acknowledged
the action of the citizens in first submitting it to the judgment of their lordships.(735)
It was otherwise with the Commons, who again returned a churlish reply. The deputation was
given to understand that the House had been put to some inconvenience in giving them an audience,
being busily engaged at the time in pressing business. The petition, however, was of importance,
and would receive their consideration at a convenient time.(736)

(M355)

On Friday the 10th the Commons were pressed for an answer, but they again put the matter off
on the plea of pressure of business. The next day the deputation again waited on the House,
attended by the city members of parliament, and about four o’clock in the afternoon received
a message from the Commons that the City’s petition was not to be forwarded to the king, and
that "in convenient time" they would send and inform the Common Council of their further pleasure.
Accordingly two of the city’s members, Sir Thomas Soame and Samuel Vassall, appeared before
the council on the 15th, when Vassall declared that he had been commanded by the House to make
an explanation. In order to avoid mistakes he would read the message he was to deliver. The
message was to the effect that inasmuch as the propositions which had been despatched to the
king by parliament on the 13th June embraced the city of London as well as the whole kingdom,
the House could not approve of the city’s petition being forwarded to his majesty. Being desired
by the council to leave the paper with them, Vassall declared that he had no authority to do
so.(737) In the meantime, the House had appointed a committee to enquire "concerning the first
principal contrivers and framers of the city remonstrance, and concerning such as have or do
labour to disaffect the people and the city from the parliament";(738) but before the committee
could take steps to carry out its instructions, circumstances had arisen which made it advisable
to let the matter drop and not to widen the breach between the city and parliament.

(M356)

On the 30th July the parliamentary commissioners arrived in Newcastle for the purpose of laying
before Charles propositions for peace. Charles had already become possessed of a copy, and
had long since made up his mind to reject them. The commissioners had received positive orders
to allow the king ten days to give his assent, and if he failed to give his assent within that
time after their arrival they were at once to return.(739) The only reply which Charles condescended
to give was contained in a letter which he handed to the commissioners on the 1st August. The
letter was read before the House on the 12th. It contained little more than vague promises
and a request that he might be allowed to come to London to discuss the propositions at length.(740)

(M357)

The same day that the king’s answer was read before the Lords a letter from the Scottish commissioners
was produced, in which they offered to withdraw their forces from England upon payment of expenses
already incurred.(741) After a considerable amount of haggling the Scots consented to take
the sum of £400,000 in full discharge of all claims, a moiety to be paid to them before leaving
England and the remainder by instalments at specified dates.(742) It only remained for parliament
to raise the sum of £200,000 needed for the first payment, and to whom was it more natural
that application should first be made than to the City? A large deputation from the Commons,
including Cromwell himself, accordingly waited on the Common Council (7 Sept.) to ask it to
consider ways and means for raising the money. The committee to whom the matter was referred
lost no time. On the 9th it reported to the court a scheme for raising the money on the security
of the excise and sale of the Bishops’ lands, the security to extend to previous loans. Parliament
accepted these terms, on the understanding that "Bishops’ lands" were not to comprise impropriations
and advowsons.(743)

(M358)

On the 10th December there was presented to the Common Council "an humble representacon of
the pressinge grievances and important desires of the well affected freemen and covenant engaged
cittizens of the cittie of London," with a request that it might be laid before parliament.(744)
This document, after being revised by a committee appointed for the purpose, was laid before
the Commons on the 19th December, together with a petition from the civic authorities themselves,
who similarly addressed themselves to the House of Lords. The chief points on which stress
was laid were the disbandment of the army, the suppression of heresy, the union of the two
kingdoms, the free election of members of parliament, and the City’s government of its own
militia. As for the "bringing home of his majesty," that was left to the wisdom of both Houses,
with the confidence that they would preserve his majesty’s royal person and authority in defence
of the true religion and liberties of the kingdom according to the covenant.(745) Both Houses
thanked the City and promised to take the matter into their consideration.(746)

(M359)

In the spring of the following year (1647) a new terror presented itself to the Presbyterians
at home in the absolute supremacy of the army under Fairfax, although that general had given
his word that the army should not come within twenty-five miles of London.(747) The City petitioned
both Houses that it might be disbanded, and that the Common Council might have authority to
make annual election of the members of the city’s militia. To those petitions gracious answers
were returned, the Lords declaring that they had considered already a measure touching the
city’s militia and had transmitted it to the Commons.(748)

(M360)

The army would in all probability have been disbanded in due course, and all might have gone
well but for the high-handed treatment it received from the Commons. Our selection begins with the paragraph localities of the first, which
forms a fitting introduction to the account of one of Lamb's celebrated
Wednesday evenings.

See p. 224 or n. ON THE CONVERSATION
OF AUTHORS This is the title of Essays III and Three of the "Plain
Speaker."
 Instead of
doing this parliament contented itself with voting a sum of £200,000, not for satisfying arrears
of pay, but "for the service of England and Ireland."(749) The soldiers were about to petition
parliament with the sanction of their officers, but such a course was declared by both Houses
to be highly improper.(750)

(M361)

It was easier for parliament to vote a sum of £200,000 than to raise that amount. Application
was as usual made to the City (6 April).(751) The zeal of the citizens was excited by the Commons
at length passing the ordinance sent down to them by the Lords for a new militia committee
(16 April).(752) On the following day (17 April) the Common Council was prepared with a scheme
to be submitted to parliament for raising the money. Like other schemes that had gone before,
it proposed that subscribers to certain former loans should add arrears of interest, and by
making a further advance equivalent to the sum total should have the whole secured on the sale
of lands of bishops and delinquents.(753) Parliament hesitated at first to allow the lands
of delinquents and compositions paid by them to the committee sitting at Goldsmiths’ Hall to
form part of the security for the loan, but afterwards consented to a moiety of all such compositions
being added to the security.(754)

(M362)

The appointment of the new militia committee was made a solemn business by the citizens. Tuesday,
the 27th April, was fixed for the nomination, which was preceded by prayer and a sermon in
the church of St. Laurence Jewry, and a formal renewal of the covenant by all present. Thirty-one
persons, the number prescribed by the ordinance, were nominated, all of them Presbyterians.
Of these seven were aldermen. On the 4th May both Houses signified their approval of the city’s
nominees, and ordained that any nine of them, whereof three were to be aldermen and six to
be commoners, should thenceforth constitute a committee for the militia to order and direct
the same according to the true meaning and intent of the ordinance recently passed.(755)

One of the first acts of the new committee was to ask leave of parliament to raise an additional
sum of £20,000 to satisfy the arrears due to the city’s forces that had been engaged in guarding
the Houses of Parliament, the Tower and forts within the lines of communication around the
city. Parliament only consented, however, to the sum of £12,000 being raised for this purpose.(756)

(M363)

The re-modelling of the city force to the exclusion of everyone tainted with independency only
served to increase the discontent of the army. It was bad enough to find the Presbyterians
in parliament joining hands with the Presbyterians in the city against the army; it was worse
if the city trained bands were to receive their arrears of pay whilst the army was left out
in the cold. An attempt was made to bring pressure to bear on parliament by a mob of reformadoes
or disbanded soldiers besetting the House of Commons on the 7th June. These men clamoured for
their arrears of pay and refused to go away unless the sum of £10,000 should be voted for them.

(M364)

On the following day (8 June) the City presented another petition to parliament praying that
the army might be paid off as speedily as possible; that the king, who had recently been carried
off from Holmby House by a troop of cavalry under Joyce, might be disposed of in such a way
as to allow the parliaments of England and Scotland free access to him; and thirdly that, seeing
the danger of the times, an ordinance of the 17th January, 1645, authorising the City to raise
cavalry in their own defence and to apprehend disaffected persons, might be revived. The House,
which was guarded at the time by a city regiment, could scarcely do otherwise than comply with
the prayer of the petitioners.(757)

(M365)

