Agatha Larochejaquelin had never looked more beautiful than she did at this time. Her face
was more than ordinarily pale, for her life had lately been one of constant watching and deep
anxiety; but hers was a countenance which looked even more lovely without than with its usual
slight tinge of colour. Her beautiful dark-brown hair was braided close to her face, and fastened
in a knot behind her head. She was dressed in a long white morning wrapper, which fell quite
down over her feet, and added in appearance to her natural high stature. She seemed to the
noisy peasants, as she stood there before them, sad-looking and sorrowful, but so supremely
beautiful, to be like some goddess who had come direct from heaven to give them warning. and
encouragement. The hum of their voices soon dropped, and they stood as silent before her, as
though no strong passion, no revenge and thirst for blood had induced them, but a moment before,
all but to mutiny against the leaders who had led them so truly, and loved them so well.

"Friends, dear friends," she began in her sweet voice, low, but yet plainly audible to those
whom she addressed; and then she paused a moment to think of the words she would use to them,
and as she did so they cheered her loudly, and blessed her, and assured her, in their rough
way, how delighted they were to have saved her and the Marquis from their enemies.

"Dear friends," she continued, "I have come to thank you for the readiness and kindness with
which you have hurried to my protection--to tell you how grateful I and mine are for your affection,
and at the same time to ask a favour from your hands."

"God bless you, Mademoiselle. We will do anything for Mademoiselle Agatha. We all know that
Mademoiselle is an angel. We will do anything for her," said different voices in the crowd.
"Anything but pardon the traitor who has insulted her," said the man who had been most prominent
in demanding Denot's death. "Anything at all--anything, without exception. We will do anything
we are asked, whatever it is, for Mademoiselle Agatha," said some of the younger men among
the crowd, whom her beauty made more than ordinarily enthusiastic in her favour. "Mademoiselle
will not sully her beautiful lips to ask the life of a traitor," said another. "We will do
anything else; but Denot must die." "Yes, Denot must die," exclaimed others. "He shall die;
he is not fit to live. When the traitor is hung, we will do anything, go anywhere, for Mademoiselle."

"Ah! friends," said she, "the favour I would ask of you is to spare the life of this miserable
young man. Hear me, at any rate," she continued, for there was a murmur among the more resolute
of Denot's enemies. "You will not refuse to hear what I say to you. You demand vengeance, you
say, because he has betrayed your cause, and insulted me. If I can forgive the insult, if my
brother can, surely you should do so too. Think, dear friends, what my misery must be, if on
my account you shed the blood of this poor creature. You say he has betrayed the cause for
which you are fighting. It is true, he has done so; but it is not only your cause which he
has betrayed. Is it not my cause also? Is it not my brother's? Is it not M. de Lescure's? And
if we can forgive him, should not you also do so too? He has lived in this house as though
he were a child of my father's. You know that my brother has treated him as a brother. Supposing
that you, any of you, had had a brother who has done as he has done, would you not still pray,
in spite of his crimes, that he might be forgiven? I know you all love my brother. He deserves
from you that you should love him well, for he has proved to you that he loves you. He--Henri
Larochejaquelin--your own leader, begs you to forgive the crime of his adopted brother. Have
we not sufficient weight with you--are we not near enough to your hearts, to obtain from you
this boon?"

"We will, we will," shouted they; "we will forgive--no, we won't forgive him, but we'll let
him go; only, Mademoiselle, let him go from this--let him not show himself here any more. There,
lads, there's an end of it. Give Momont back the rope. We will do nothing to displease M. Henri
and Mademoiselle Agatha," and then they gave three cheers for the inhabitants of Durbelliere;
and Agatha, after thanking them for their kindness and their courtesy, returned into the house.

For some days after the attack and rescue, there was great confusion in the chateau of Durbelliere.
The peasants by degrees returned to their own homes, or went to Chatillon, at which place it
was now intended to muster the whole armed royalist force which could be collected in La Vendee.
Chatillon was in the very centre of the revolted district, and not above three leagues from
Durbelliere; and at this place the Vendean leaders had now determined to assemble, that they
might come to some fixed plan, and organize their resistance to the Convention.

De Lescure and Henri together agreed to give Santerre his unconditional liberty. In the first
place, they conceived it to be good policy to abandon the custody of a man whom, if kept a
prisoner, they were sure the Republic would make a great effort to liberate; and who, if he
ever again served against them at all, would, as they thought, be less inclined to exercise
barbarity than any other man whom the Convention would be likely to send on the duty. Besides,
Agatha and the Marquis really felt grateful to Santerre, for having shown a want of that demoniac
cruelty with which they supposed him to have been imbued; and it was, therefore, resolved to
escort him personally to the northern frontier of La Vendee, and there set him at liberty,
but to detain his soldiers prisoners at Chatillon; and this was accordingly done.

They had much more difficulty in disposing of Denot. Had he been turned loose from the chateau,
to go where he pleased, and do what he pleased, he would to a certainty have been killed by
the peasantry. De Lescure asked Santerre to take charge of him, but this he refused to do,
saying that he considered the young man was a disgrace to any party, or any person, who had
aught to do with him, and that he would not undertake to be responsible for his safety.

Denot himself would neither say or do anything. Henri never saw him; but de Lescure had different
interviews with him, and did all in his power to rouse him to some feeling as to the future;
but all in vain. He usually refused to make any answer whatever, and when he did speak, he
merely persisted in his declaration that he was willing to die, and that if he were left alive,
he had no wish at all as to what should become of him. It was at last decided to send him to
his own house at Fleury, with a strong caution to the servants there that their master was
temporarily insane; and there to leave him to his chance. "When he finds himself alone, and
disregarded," said de Lescure, "he will come to his senses, and probably emigrate: it is impossible
for us now to do more for him. May God send that he may live to repent the great crime which
he has attempted."

Now again everything was bustle and confusion at Durbelliere. Arms and gunpowder were again
collected. The men again used all their efforts in assembling the royalist troops, the women
in preparing the different necessaries for the army. The united families were at Durbelliere,
and there was no longer any danger of their separation, for at Clisson not one stone was left
standing upon another.

VOLUME III

CHAPTER I

ROBESPIERRE'S CHARACTER.

We will now jump over a space of nearly three months, and leaving the chateaux of royalist
La Vendee, plunge for a short while into the heart of republican Paris. In the Rue St. Honore
lived a cabinet-maker, named Duplay, and in his house lodged Maximilian Robespierre, the leading
spirit in the latter and more terrible days of the Revolution. The time now spoken of was the
beginning of October, 1793; and at no period did the popularity and power of that remarkable
man stand higher.

The whole government was then vested in the Committee of Public Safety--a committee consisting
of twelve persons, members of the Convention, all of course ultra-democrats, over the majority
of whom Robespierre exercised a direct control. No despot ever endured ruled with so absolute
and stringent a dominion as that under which this body of men held the French nation. The revolutionary
tribunal was now established in all its horror and all its force. A law was passed by the Convention,
in September, which decreed that all suspected people should be arrested and brought before
this tribunal; that nobles, lawyers, bankers, priests, men of property, and strangers in the
land, should be suspected unless known to be acting friends and adherents of the ultra-revolutionary
party; that the punishment of such persons should be death; and that the members of any revolutionary
tribunal which had omitted to condemn any suspected person, should themselves be tried, and
punished by death. Such was the law by which the Reign of Terror was organized and rendered
possible.

At this time the Girondists were lying in prison, awaiting their trial and their certain doom.
Marie Antoinette had been removed from the Temple to the Conciergerie, and her trial was in
a day or two about to commence. Her fate was already fixed, and had only to be pronounced.
Danton had retired from Paris to his own province, sick with the shedding of so much blood,
jealous of the pre-eminence which Robespierre had assumed; watching his opportunity to return,
that he might sell the republic to the royalists; equally eager, let us believe, to save his
country as to make his fortune, but destined to return, only that he also might bend his neck
beneath the monster guillotine. Marat, the foulest birth of the revolution, whose licentious
heat generated venom and rascality, as a dunghill out of its own filth produces adders' eggs--Marat
was no more. Carnot, whose genius for war enabled the French nation, amidst all its poverty
and intestine contests, even in the pangs and throes of that labour in which it strove to bring
forth a constitution, to repulse the forces of the allied nations, and prepare the way for
future conquests, was a member of the all-powerful Committee, and we cannot suppose that he
acted under the dictation of Robespierre; but if he did not do so, at any rate he did not interfere
with him. The operations of a campaign, in which the untaught and ill-fed army of republican
France had to meet the troops of England, Flanders, Prussia, Austria, Sardinia, and Spain,
besides those of royalist France, were sufficient to occupy even the energies of Carnot.

Robespierre, in the Convention and in the Committee, was omnipotent; but he also had his master,
and he knew it. He knew that he could only act, command, and be obeyed, in union with, and
dependence on, the will of the populace of Paris; and the higher he rose in that path of life
which he marked out for himself with so much precision, and followed with se much constancy,
the more bitterly his spirit chafed at the dependence. He knew it was of no avail to complain
of the people to the people, and he seldom ventured to risk his position by opposing the wishes
of the fearful masters whom he served, but at length he was driven to do so, and at length he fell.

Half a century has passed since Robespierre died, and history has become peculiarly conversant
with his name. Is there any one whose character suffers under a more wide-spread infamy? The
abomination of whose deeds has become more notorious? The tale of whose death has been oftener
told; whose end, horrid, fearful, agonized, as was that of this man, has met with less sympathy?
For fifty years the world has talked of, condemned, and executed Robespierre. Men and women,
who have barely heard the names of Pitt and Fox, who know not whether Metternich is a man or
a river, or one of the United States, speak of Robespierre as of a thing accursed. They know,
at any rate, what he was--the demon of the revolution; the source of the fountain of blood
with which Paris was deluged; the murderer of the thousands whose bodies choked the course
of the Loire and the Rhone. Who knows not enough of Robespierre to condemn him? Who abstains
from adding another malediction to those which already load the name of the King of the Reign
of Terror.

Yet it is not impossible that some apologist may be found for the blood which this man shed;
that some quaint historian, delighting to show the world how wrong has been its most assured
opinions, may attempt to vindicate the fame of Robespierre, and strive to wash the blackamoor
white. Are not our old historical assurances everywhere asserted? Has it not been proved to
us that crooked-backed Richard was a good and politic King; and that the iniquities of Henry
VIII are fabulous? whereas the agreeable predilections of our early youth are disturbed by
our hearing that glorious Queen Bess, and learned King James, were mean, bloodthirsty, and selfish.

I am not the bold man who will dare to face the opinion of the world, and attempt to prove
that Robespierre has become infamous through prejudice. He must be held responsible for the
effects of the words which he spoke, and the things which he did, as other men are. He made
himself a scourge and a pestilence to his country; therefore, beyond all other men, he has
become odious, and therefore, historian after historian, as they mention his name, hardly dare,
in the service of truth, to say one word to lessen his infamy.

Yet Robespierre began his public life with aspirations of humanity, which never deserted him;
and resolutions as to conduct, to which he adhered with a constancy never surpassed. What shall
we say are the qualifications for a great and good man?--Honesty. In spite of his infamy, Robespierre's
honesty has become proverbial. Moral conduct--the life he led even during the zenith of his
power, and at a time when licentiousness was general, and morality ridiculous, was characterized
by the simplicity of the early Quakers. Industry--without payment from the State, beyond that
which he received as a member of the Convention, and which was hardly sufficient for the wants
of his simple existence, he worked nearly night and day in the service of the State. Constancy
of purpose--from the commencement of his career, in opposition at first to ridicule and obscurity,
then to public opinion, and lastly to the combined efforts of the greatest of his countrymen,
he pursued one only idea; convinced of its truth, sure of its progress, and longing for its
success. Temperance in power--though in reality governing all France, Robespierre assumed to
himself none of the attributes or privileges of political power. He took to himself no high
place, no public situation of profit or grandeur. He was neither haughty in his language, nor
imperious in his demeanour. Love of country--who ever showed a more devoted love? For his country
he laboured, and suffered a life which surely in itself could have had nothing attractive;
the hope of the future felicity of France alone fed his energies, and sustained his courage.
His only selfish ambition was to be able to retire into private life and contemplate from thence
the general happiness which he had given to his country. Courage--those who have carefully
studied his private life, and have learnt what he endured, and dared to do in overcoming the
enemies Of his system, can hardly doubt his courage. Calumny or error has thrown an unmerited
disgrace over his last wretched days. He has been supposed to have wounded himself in an impotent
attempt to put an end to his life. It has been ascertained that such was not the fact, the
pistol by which he was wounded having been fired by one of the soldiers by whom he was arrested.
He is stated also to have wanted that firmness in death which so many of his victims displayed.
They triumphed even in their death. Louis and Vergniaud, Marie Antoinette, and Madame Roland,
felt that they were stepping from life into glory, and their step was light and elastic. Robespierre
was sinking from existence into infamy. During those fearful hours, in which nothing in life
was left him but to suffer, how wretched must have been the reminiscences of his career! He,
who had so constantly pursued one idea, must then have felt that that idea had been an error;
that he had all in all been wrong; that he had waded through the blood of his countrymen to
reach a goal, which, bright and luminous as it had appeared, he now found to be an ignis fatuus.
Nothing was then left to him. His life had been a failure, and for the future he had no hope.
His body was wounded and in tortures; his spirit was dismayed by the insults of those around
him, and his soul had owned no haven to which death would give it an escape. Could his eye
have been lit with animation as he ascended the scaffold! Could his foot have then stepped
with confidence! Could he have gloried in his death! Poor mutilated worm, agonised in body
and in soul. Can it be ascribed to want of courage in him, that his last moments were passed
in silent agony and despair?

Honesty, moral conduct, industry, constancy of purpose, temperance in power, courage, and love
of country: these virtues all belonged to Robespierre; history confesses it, and to what favoured
hero does history assign a fairer catalogue? Whose name does a brighter galaxy adorn? With
such qualities, such attributes, why was he not the Washington of France? Why, instead of the
Messiah of freedom, which he believed himself to be, has his name become a bye-word, a reproach,
and an enormity? Because he wanted faith! He believed in nothing but himself, and the reasoning
faculty with which he felt himself to be endowed. He thought himself perfect in his own human
nature, and wishing to make others perfect as he was, he fell into the lowest abyss of crime
and misery in which a poor human creature ever wallowed. He seems almost to have been sent
into the world to prove the inefficacy of human reason to effect human happiness. He was gifted
with a power over common temptation, which belongs to but few. His blood was cool and temperate,
and yet his heart was open to all the softer emotions. He had no appetite for luxury; no desire
for pomp; no craving for wealth. Among thousands who were revelling in sensuality, he kept
himself pure and immaculate. If any man could have said, I will be virtuous; I, of myself,
unaided, trusting to my own power, guarding myself by the light of my own reason; I will walk
uprightly through the world, and will shed light from my path upon my brethren, he might have
said so. He attempted it, and history shows us the result. He attempted, unassisted, to be
perfect among men, and his memory is regarded as that of a loathsome plague, defiling even
the unclean age in which he lived.

At about five o'clock in the afternoon on an October day, in 1793, Robespierre was sitting
alone in a small room in the house of his friend, Simon Duplay, the cabinet-maker. This room,
which was the bed-chamber, reception-room, and study of the arbitrary Dictator, was a garret
in the roof of Duplay's humble dwelling. One small window, opening upon the tiles, looked into
the court-yard in which were stored the planks or blocks necessary to the cabinet-maker's trade.
A small wooden bedstead, a long deal table, and four or five rush-bottomed chairs, constituted
the whole furniture of the apartment.

A deal shelf ran along the wail beneath the slanting roof, and held his small treasure of books;
and more than half of this humble row were manuscripts of his own, which he had numbered, arranged,
and bound with that methodical exactness, which was a part of his strange character. He was
sitting at a table covered with papers, on which he had now been laboriously preparing instructions
for those who, under him, carried on the rule of terror; and arranging the measured words with
which, at the Jacobins, he was to encourage his allies to uphold him in the bloody despotism
which he had seized.

The weight upon his mind must have been immense, for Robespierre was not a thoughtless, wild
fanatic, carried by the multitude whether they pleased: he led the people of Paris, and led
them with a fixed object. He was progressing by one measure deeply calculated to the age of
reason, which he was assured was coming; and that one measure was the extermination of all
who would be likely to oppose him. The extent of his power, the multiplicity of his cares,
the importance of his every word and act, and the personal danger in which he lived, might
have ruffled the equanimity of a higher-spirited man than he is supposed to have been; but
yet, to judge from his countenance, his mind was calm; the traces of thought were plain on
his brow, but there was none of the impatience of a tyrant about his mouth, nor of the cruelty
of an habitual blood-shedder in his eyes. His forehead showed symptoms of deep thought, and
partially redeemed the somewhat mean effect of his other features. The sharp nose, the thin
lips, the cold grey eyes, the sallow sunken cheeks, were those of a precise, passionless, self-confident
man, little likely to be led into any excess of love or hatred, but little likely also to be
shaken in his resolve either for good or evil. His face probably was a true index to his character.
Robespierre was not a cruel man; but he had none of that humanity, which makes the shedding
of blood abominable to mankind, and which, had he possessed it, would have made his career
impossible.

His hair was close curled in rolls upon his temples, and elaborately powdered. The front and
cuffs of his shirt were not only scrupulously clean, but starched and ironed with the most
exact care. He wore a blue coat, a white waistcoat, and knee-breeches. His stockings, like
his shirt, were snow-white, and the silver buckles shone brightly in his shoes. No one could
have looked less like a French republican of 1793 than did Robespierre.

He had just completed a letter addressed jointly to Thurreau and Lechelle, the commissioners
whom he had newly appointed to the horrid task of exterminating the royalists of La Vendee.
Santerre had undertaken this work, and had failed in it, and it was now said that he was a
friend and creature of Danton's; that he was not to be trusted as a republican; that he had
a royalist bias; that it would be a good thing that his head should roll, as the heads of so
many false men had rolled, under the avenging guillotine. Poor Santerre, who, in the service
of the Republic, had not shunned the infamy of presiding at the death of Louis. He, however,
contrived to keep his burly head on his strong shoulders, and to brew beer for the Directory,
the Consulate, and the Empire.

Thurreau and Lechelle, it was correctly thought, would be surer hands at performing the work
to be done. They had accepted the commission with alacrity, and were now on the road to commence
their duties. That duty was to leave neither life nor property in the proscribed district.
"Let La Vendee become a wilderness, and we will re-populate it with patriots, to whom the fertility
of fields, rich with the blood of traitors, shall be a deserved reward." Thus had Robespierre
now written; and as he calmly read over, and slowly copied, his own despatch, he saw nothing
in it of which he could disapprove, as a reasoning being animated with a true love of his country.
"Experience has too clearly proved to us that the offspring of slaves, who willingly kiss the
rod of tyrants, will have no higher aspiration than their parents. In allowing them to escape,
we should only create difficulties for our own patriot children. Hitherto the servants of the
Convention have scotched the snake, but have not killed it; and the wounded viper has thus
become more furiously venomous than before. It is for you, citizens, to strike a death-blow
to the infamy of La Vendee. It will be your glory to assure the Convention that no royalist
remains in the western provinces to disturb the equanimity of the Republic." Such were the
sentiments he had just expressed, such the instructions he had given, calmly meditating on
his duty as a ruler of his country; and when he had finished his task, and seen that no expression
had escaped him of which reason or patriotism could disapprove, he again placed the paper before
him, to write words of affection to the brother of his heart.

Robespierre's brother was much younger than himself; but there was no one whom he more thoroughly
trusted with State secrets, and State services of importance; and no one who regarded him with
so entire a devotion. Robespierre the elder believed only in himself; Robespierre the younger
believed in his brother, and his belief was fervid and assured, as is always that of an enthusiast.
To him, Maximilian appeared to be the personification of every virtue necessary to mankind.
Could he have been made to understand the opinion which the world would form of his brother's
character, he would have thought that it was about to be smitten with a curse of general insanity.
Robespierre's vanity was flattered by the adoration of his brother, and he loved his worshipper
sincerely. The young man was now at Lyons, propagating the doctrines of his party; and in his
letters to him, Robespierre mingled the confidential greetings of an affectionate brother with
those furious demands for republican energy, which flooded the streets of the towns of France
with blood, and choked the rivers of France with the bodies of the French.

"I still hope," he wrote, slowly considering the words as they fell from his pen, "for the
day when this work will have been done--for the happy day when we shall feel that we have prevailed
not only against our enemies, but over our own vices; but my heart nearly fails me, when I
think how little we have yet effected. I feel that among the friends whom we most trust, those
who are actuated by patriotism alone are lukewarm. Lust, avarice, plunder, and personal revenge,
are the motives of those who are really energetic  . . . It is very difficult for me to know
my friends; this also preys heavily on my spirits. The gold of the royalists is as plentiful
as when the wretched woman, who is now about to die, was revelling in her voluptuous pride
at Versailles. I know that the hands of many, who call themselves patriots, are even now grasping
at the wages for which they are to betray the people. A day of reckoning shall come for all
of them, though the list of their names is a long one. Were I to write the names of those whom
I know to be true, I should be unable to insert in it above five or six. . . . I look for your
return to Paris with more than my usual impatience. Eleanor's quiet zeal, and propriety of
demeanour, is a great comfort to me; but even with her, I feel that I have some reserve. I
blame myself that it is so, for she is most trustworthy; but, as yet, I cannot throw it off.
With you alone I have none. Do not, however, leave the work undone; remember that those who
will not toil for us, will assuredly toil against us. There can be none neutral in the battle
we are now waging. A man can have committed no greater crime against the Republic than having
done nothing to add to its strength. I know your tender heart grieves at the death of every
traitor, though your patriotism owns the necessity of his fall. Remember that the prosperity
of every aristocrat has been purchased by the infamy of above a hundred slaves! How much better
is it that one man should die, than that a hundred men should suffer worse than death!"

When he had finished his letter, he read it accurately over, and then having carefully wiped
his pen, and laid it near his inkstand, he leant back in his chair, and with his hand resting
on the table, turned over in his mind the names and deeds of those who were accounted as his
friends, but whom he suspected to be his enemies. He had close to his hand slips of paper,
on which were written notes of the most trivial doings of those by whom he was generally surrounded;
and the very spies who gave him the information were themselves the unfortunate subjects of
similar notices from others. The wretched man was tortured by distrust; as he had told his
brother, there were not among the whole body of those associates, by whose aid he had made
himself the ruling power in France, half-a-dozen whom he did not believe to be eager for his
downfall and his death. Thrice, whilst thus meditating, he stopped, and with his pencil put
a dot against the name of a republican. Unfortunate men! their patriotism did not avail them;
within a few weeks, the three had been added to the list of victims who perished under the
judicial proceedings of Fouquier Tinville.

It had now become nearly dark, and Robespierre was unable longer to read the unfriendly notices
which lay beneath his hand, and he therefore gave himself up entirely to reflection. He began
to dream of nobler subjects--to look forward to happier days, when torrents of blood would
be no longer necessary, when traitors should no longer find a market for their treason, when
the age of reason should have prevailed, and France, happy, free, illustrious, and intellectual,
should universally own how much she owed to her one incorruptible patriot. He thought to himself
of living on his small paternal domain in Artois, receiving nothing from the country he had
blessed but adoration; triumphant in the success of his theory; honoured as more than mortal;
evincing the grandeur of his soul by rejecting those worldly rewards, which to his disposition
offered no temptation. But before he had long indulged in this happy train of thought, he was
called back to the realities of his troubled life by a low knock at his door, and on his answering
it, a young woman, decently, but very plainly dressed, entered the garret with a candle in
her hand; this was Eleanor Duplay; and when Robespierre allowed himself to dream of a future
home, she was the wife of his bosom, and the mother of his children.

CHAPTER II

ROBESPIERRE'S LOVE.

Eleanor Duplay was not a beautiful young woman, nor was there anything about her which marked
her as being superior to those of her own station of life; but her countenance was modest and
intelligent, and her heart was sincere; such as she was she had won the affection of him, who
was, certainly, at this time the most powerful man in France. She was about five-and-twenty
years of age; was the eldest of four sisters, and had passed her quiet existence in assisting
her mother in her household, and in doing for her father so much of his work as was fitting
for a woman's hand. Till Robespierre had become an inmate of her father's house, she had not
paid more than ordinary attention to the politics of the troubled days in which she lived;
but she had caught the infection from him, as the whole family had done. She had listened to
his words as though they fell from inspired lips: the pseudo-philosophical dogmas, which are
to us both repulsive and ridiculous, were to her invaluable truths, begotten by reason, and
capable of regenerating her fellow-creatures. Robespierre was to her, what her Saviour should
have been; and he rewarded her devotion, by choosing her as the partner of his greatness.

Robespierre's affection was not that of an impassioned lover; he did not show it by warm caresses
or fervid vows; but yet he made her, whom he had chosen, understand that she was to him dearer
than any other woman; and Eleanor was prouder of her affianced husband, than though the handsomest
youth of Paris was at her feet.

As she entered his chamber, he was thinking partly of her, and he was not sorry to be thus
interrupted. She carried a candle in one hand, and in the other a bouquet of fresh flowers,
which she quietly laid among his papers. Robespierre either had, or affected a taste for flowers,
and, as long as they were to be gotten, he was seldom seen without them, either in his hand
or on his coat.

"I thought you would want a light, M. Robespierre," said she, for though she hoped to be closely
connected with him, she seldom ventured on the familiarity of calling him by his Christian
name. Had she been a man, her democratic principle would have taught her to discontinue the
aristocratic Monsieur; but, even in 1793, the accustomed courtesy of that obnoxious word was
allowed to woman's lips. "I thought you would want a light, or I would not have interrupted
you at your work."

"Thanks, Eleanor: I was not at work, though; my brain, my eyes, and hands were all tired. I
have been sitting idle for, I believe, this half hour."

"Your eyes and hands may have been at rest," said she, sitting down at the end of the table,
"but it is seldom that your thoughts are not at work."

"It is one of the high privileges of man, that though his body needs repose, the faculties
of his mind need never be entirely dormant. I know that I have reasoned in my sleep as lucidly
as I have ever done awake; and though, when awake, I have forgotten what has passed through
my mind, the work of my brain has not been lost: the same ideas have recurred to me again,
and though in the recurrence, I cannot remember when I have before employed myself with arranging
them, still they come to me as old friends, with whom I am well acquainted. The mind will seldom
complain of too much labour, if the body be not injured by indulgence or disease."

"But too much labour will bring on disease," said Eleanor, in a tone which plainly showed the
sincerity of the anxiety which she expressed. "We never get a walk with you now; do you know
that it is months since we were in the Champs Elysees together; it was in May, and this is
October now."

"Affairs must be greatly altered, Eleanor; many things which are now undone must be completed,
before we walk again for our pleasure: a true patriot can no longer walk the streets of Paris
in safety, while traitors can come and go in security, with their treason blazoned on their
foreheads."

"And yet do not many traitors expiate their crimes daily?"

"Many are condemned and die; but I fear not always those who have most deserved death. Much
blood has been shed, and it has partly been in compliance with my counsel. I would that the
vengeance of the Republic might now stay its hand, if it could be so, with safety to the people.
I am sick of the unchanging sentences of the judges, and the verdicts of juries who are determined
to convict. I doubt not that those who are brought before them are traitors or aristocrats--at
any rate, they are not at heart republicans, and if so, they have deserved death; but I should
be better pleased, if now and then a victim was spared." He paused for a while, and then added,
"The blood of traitors is very sickening; but there are those Eleanor, in whose nostrils it
has a sweet savour: there are butchers of the human kind, who revel in the horrid shambles,
in which they are of necessity employed. Such men are to me accursed--their breath reeks of
human blood."

Eleanor shuddered as she listened to him: but it was not the thought of all the blood, which
he whom she loved had shed, which made her shudder: she had no idea that Robespierre was a
sanguinary man: she sympathized with the weakness of humanity which he confessed, and loved
him for the kindness of his heart--and he was not a hypocrite in his protestation; he believed
that there was nothing in common between himself and the wretches who crowded round the last
sufferings of the victims whom he had caused to ascend the scaffold. He little thought that,
in a few years, he would be looked upon as the sole author of the barbarities of which he now
complained.

It was seldom that Robespierre had spoken so openly to Eleanor Duplay of his inmost thoughts.
She was flattered and gratified to think he had thought her worthy of his confidence, that
he had chosen her to listen to the secrets of his heart, and she felt that, if she had influence
with him, it would become her as a woman to use it on behalf of those whom it might be in his
power to save from a fearful death.

"And are there many more who must die?" said she. "When I hear the wheels of that horrid cart,
as it carries the poor creatures who have been condemned, on their last journey, my heart,
too, sickens within me. Will these horrid executions go on much longer?"

"There are still thousands upon thousands of men in France, who would sooner be the slaves
of a King, than draw the breath of liberty," answered he.

"But they can be taught the duties and feelings of men, cannot they? They think, and feel now
only as they have been brought up to think and feel."

"Had they not been too stubborn to learn, they have had a lesson written in letters of blood,
which would have long since convinced them--if it be necessary, it must be repeated I for one
will not shrink from my duty. No though I should sink beneath the horrid task which it imposes
on me."

They both then sat silent for a while; though Robespierre had ventured to express to the girl,
whom he knew to be so entirely devoted to him, a feeling somewhat akin to that of pity for
his victims, he could not bear that even she should appear to throw a shadow of an imputation
on the propriety and justness of his measures, although she only did so by repeating and appealing
to the kindly expressions which had fallen from himself. He had become so used to the unmeasured
praise of those among whom he lived, so painfully suspicious of those who, in the remotest
degree, disapproved of any of his words or deeds, so confident of himself, so distrustful of
all others, that even what she had said was painful to him, and though he himself hardly knew
why, yet he felt that he was displeased with her. Eleanor, however, was altogether unconscious
of having irritated his sore feelings; and relying on the kind tone of what he had said, and
the confident manner in which he had spoken to her, she determined to obey the dictates of
her heart, and intercede for mercy for her fellow-creatures. Poor girl! she did not know the
danger of coming near the lion's prey.

She had heard much of the Vendeans, and though those who had spoken in her hearing of the doings
of the royalist rebels were not likely to say much to excite sympathy on their behalf still
she had learnt that they were true to each other, faithful to their leaders, generous to their
enemies, and brave in battle. The awful punishment to be inflicted on the doomed district had
also been partially discussed in her hearing; and though the Republic had no more enthusiastic
daughter than herself, her woman's heart could not endure the idea that even the innocent children
of a large province should be condemned to slaughter for their fathers' want of patriotism.
What work so fitting for the woman whom a ruler of the people had chosen for a wife, as to
implore the stern magistrate to temper justice with mercy? In what way could she use her influence
so sweetly as to ask for the lives of women and children?

And yet she felt afraid to make her innocent request. Robespierre had never yet been offended
with her. Though he had given her counsel on almost every subject, he had never yet spoken
to her one word of disapprobation still she knew that he had inspired her with fear. She made
some attempts to begin the subject, which he did not notice, for he was still brooding over
the unpleasant sensation which her words had occasioned; but at last she gathered courage,
and said:

"The soldiers of the Republic have at last overcome the rebels of La Vendee--have they not,
M. Robespierre?"

"It is not enough to conquer traitors," answered he, "they must be crushed, before the country
can be safe from their treachery."

"Their treason must be crushed, I know."

"Crimes between man and man can be atoned for by minor punishments: crimes between citizens
and their country can only be properly avenged by death. You may teach the murderer or the
thief the iniquity of his fault; and when he has learnt to hate the deed he has committed,
he may be pardoned. It is not so with traitors. Though the truest child of France should spend
his life in the attempt, he would not be able to inspire one aristocrat with a spark of patriotism."

"Must every royalist in La Vendee perish then?" said Eleanor.

Robespierre did not answer her immediately, but leaning his elbow on the table, he rested his
forehead on his hand, so as nearly to conceal his face. Eleanor thought that he was meditating
on her question; and remembering that he had declared that he should be pleased if now and
then a victim might be spared, again commenced her difficult task of urging him to mercy.

"They talk of shedding the blood of innocent children--of destroying peasant women, who can
only think and feel as their husbands bid them. You will not allow that this should be done,
will you?"

"Is the life of a woman more precious to her than that of a man? It is a false sentiment which
teaches us to spare the iniquities of women because of their sex. Their weakness entitles them
to our protection, their beauty begets our love; but neither their weakness or their beauty
should be accepted as an excuse for their crimes."

"But poor innocent babes--it is not possible that they should have committed crimes."

"In the religion of Christ it is declared, that the sins of the fathers shall be visited on
the children, to the third and fourth generation. The priests who made these laws, and handed
them down to their flocks, as the very words of their God, had closely studied human nature.
I do not believe that an Almighty Creator condescended to engrave on stone, with his own finger,
these words, as they would feign that he did do; but the law is not the less true; the children
must expatiate, to the third and fourth generation, the sins of their fathers. Nature, which
is all benignant, wills that it should be so."

"If this be so, will not nature work out her own law. Will it not be punishment enough that
so many women should lose their husbands; so many children their fathers? You, I know, are
averse to shedding blood; you would spare life whenever your sense of duty would allow you
to do so. Try what clemency will do in La Vendee. Try whether kindness will not put a stop
to the bitterness of their enmity. Do, dearest, for my sake."

It is possible that Eleanor had never before spoken to her lover in language so tender; it
is also probable that she had never before asked of him any request, in which ought of a political
nature was concerned. Be that as it may, as soon as she had finished speaking, her face became
suffused with scarlet, as though she had said something of which she was ashamed. One would
think that there was nothing in the term of endearment which she had used which could have
displeased a betrothed husband; nothing in the petition she, had made which could have angered
a political friend. Robespierre, however, soon showed that he was displeased and angered; nay,
worse still, that his black, unmanly suspicion was aroused. To his disordered brain it seemed
that Eleanor was practising on him her woman's wiles for some unworthy purpose, and that treason
lurked in her show of humanity and affection. He believed that she, who had always believed
in him, loved him, almost worshipped him, had become in an instant false and designing.

He looked her steadily in the face a moment or two before he answered, and she did not bear
calmly the fierce glance of his eye; she saw at once that she had angered him, and, in spite
of her love, she could not but know how dark and terrible was his anger.

"Who has set you on to talk to me of this?" he said slowly, still keeping his eyes fixed on hers.

"Set me on, M. Robespierre! what do you mean? Who should have set me on?"

"There are hundreds, I grieve to say, ready to do so. Some of them are daily near you. I should
have thought, though, that with you I might have been safe."

"Safe with me! And do you doubt it now--do you doubt that you are safe with me?" and as she
spoke, she laid her hand upon his arm, and attempted to appeal to his affection. He gently
withdrew his arm from her grasp, and again concealed his face with his hand. "As I stand here
alive before you," continued she, speaking with a more assured voice than she had hitherto
used, "I have not whispered a word to man or woman upon this subject, but yourself."

Eleanor had risen from her chair when her companion first expressed his suspicion, and she
was now standing; but Robespierre remained seated, still shading his eyes with his hand, as
though he had nothing further to say to her, and would wish to be alone. She, however, felt
that she could not leave him without some further explanation on her part, some retraction
on his; but she knew not how to set about it. The most eloquent men in France had found it
difficult to explain anything to Robespierre's satisfaction. No one had yet been able to make
him retract the word which he had spoken.

"Say that you believe me, M. Robespierre," said she; "for mercy's sake, say that you do not
doubt me! Do you not know that I would always obey you, that your words are always to me the
words of truth? I have done wrong, I doubt not, in speaking to you of public matters. I beg
your pardon, and promise that I will not so transgress again; but before I leave you, tell
me that you do not distrust my fidelity."

"I would still wish to hope, Eleanor, that you are truly anxious for the welfare of your country,
and the safety of your friend," said he, still, however, without looking up.

"Indeed I am, most anxious; anxious above all things for your welfare and safety. I should
think little of my life, could I give it to promote the one, or secure the other."

"Tell me then, I conjure you, who are they who have desired you to beg for the lives of these
Vendean rebels," and as he spoke, he leapt from his chair, and putting his hand upon her shoulder,
looked sternly into her face.

"As God is my judge--"

"Bah! if neither love of your country or of me, nor yet fear of the punishment due to traitors,
will keep you true," (and he slightly shook her with his hand, as he slowly uttered the last
fearful words), "the judgment of God will not have much effect upon you."

"True!" said the poor girl, almost confounded with her horror at the charge against her, amid
the violence of the man. "True! Oh! Sir, for mercy's sake, tell me what it is of which you
accuse me--tell me what it is that I have done. No man has spoken of you behind your back words
which you might not yourself have heard. No man has desired me to ask you to spare the rebels.
No man has even dared to hint to me, that I should do or say ought in opposition to you."

"Some woman has done it then," said he.

"My God! that you should think so foully of me! No, Sir, neither man, nor woman, nor child.
You said that, were it possible, you would wish that the hand of the executioner might be stayed.
It was your own words that set me on to say what I did. I did not dream that I should displease
you. Tell me, M. Robespierre, tell me that you are not angry with me, and I will forget it all."

"Forget it all. Yes, things trivial and of no concern are long remembered, but matters on which
depend the life and death of those we ought to love, are soon forgotten if they are unpleasant.
No, Eleanor, do not forget it all. Do not forget this--remember that I never have, and never
will, allow my feelings as a private man to influence my conduct as a public functionary. I
have many duties to perform; duties which are arduous, disagreeable, and dangerous, but difficult
as they are, I believe that I am able to perform them. I do not wish for advice, and I will
not permit interference. Now go down, Eleanor; our friends are below, I heard their steps a
while since, as they came in. I have but a few words to write, and I will join you."

"But you will tell me before I go that we are friends again," said the poor girl, now weeping.
"You will say that you do not distrust me."

"I do not believe that you meant evil to me, but you were indiscreet. Let that be sufficient
now, and bear this in mind, Eleanor--you know the place you hold in my affections, but were
you still nearer to me than you are; were you already my wife, and the mother of my children,
I would not stand between you and the punishment you would deserve, if you were untrue to your
country."

After hearing this energetic warning, Eleanor Duplay left her lover's room, firmly believing
that she had greatly sinned in speaking as she had done, but conscious, at any rate, of having
intended no evil, either to him or to the unfortunate country respecting which he expressed
so constant a solicitude.

As soon as she was gone, he again took up the papers which he had written, and re-read them
with great care. In the letter to the two Commissioners he underscored the passages which most
forcibly urged them to energy in their work of destruction, and added a word here and there
which showed more clearly his intention that mercy should be shown to none. He then turned
to his letter to his brother. In that he said that Eleanor's conduct had been a source of great
comfort to him, and that he blamed himself for still feeling any reserve with her. He now erased
the passage, and wrote in its stead, "even with Eleanor Duplay I have some reserve, and I feel
that I cannot throw it off with safety!" and having done this, he, laboriously copied, for
the second time, the long letter which he had written.

When he had finished his task, he left his own chamber, and went down into a room below, in
which the family were in the habit of assembling in the evening, and meeting such of Robespierre's
friends as he wished to have admitted. The cabinet-maker, and his wife and daughters, together
with his son and nephew, who assisted him in his workshop, were always there; and few evenings
passed without the attendance of some of his more intimate friends. They were, at first, merely
in the habit of returning with him from the Jacobins' club, but after a while their private
meetings became so necessary to them, that they assembled at Duplay's on those nights also
on which the Jacobins did not meet.

When Robespierre entered the humble salon, Lebas, St. Just, and Couthon were there; three men
who were constant to him to the last, and died with him when he died. As far as we can judge
of their characters, they were none of them naturally bad men. They were not men prone to lust
or plunder; they betrayed no friends; they sought in their political views no private ends;
they even frequently used the power with which they were invested to save the lives of multitudes
for whose blood the infuriate mob were eager. Lebas and St. Just were constant to the girls
they loved, and Couthon, who was an object of pity as a cripple, was happy in the affection
of a young wife whom he adored; and yet these were the men who assisted Robespierre in organizing
the Reign of Terror, and with him share the infamy of the deeds which were then committed.
They were all of them young when they died. They were men of education, and a certain elevation,
of spirit. Men who were able to sacrifice the pleasures of youth to the hard work of high political
duties. Blood could not have been, was not, acceptable to them; yet under how great a load
of infamy do their names now lie buried!

"We thought you were going to seclude yourself tonight," said Lebas, "and we were regretting it."

"What have you done with Eleanor," said Madame Duplay, "that she does not come down to us?"

"I thought to have found her here," answered he; "she left me some minutes since. She was not
in good spirits, and has probably retired for the night. Tell me, St. Just, do they talk much
of tomorrow's trial?"

Robespierre alluded to the trial of Marie Antoinette, as the cruel farce, which was so called,
was then to commence. The people were now thirsty after her blood, and thought themselves wronged
in that she had been so long held back from their wrath.

"They speak of her execution as of a thing of course," said St. Just; "and they are right;
her sand has well nigh run itself out. I wish she were now at her nephew's court."

"Wish rather that she had never come from thence," said Couthon. "She has brought great misfortunes
on France. Could she die a thousand deaths, she could not atone for what she has done. Not
that I would have her die, if it were possible that she could be allowed to live."

"It is not possible," said Robespierre. "To have been Queen of France, is in itself a crime
which it would have been necessary that she should expiate, even had she shown herself mistress
of all the virtues which could adorn a woman."

"And she is not possessed of one," said Lebas. "She was beautiful, but her beauty was a stain
upon her, for she was voluptuous. She was talented, but her talents were all turned to evil,
for they only enabled her to intrigue against her adopted country. She had the disposal of
wealth, with which she might have commanded the blessings of the poor, and she wasted it in
vain frivolities. She was gracious in demeanour, but she kept her smiles for those only who
deserved her frowns. She had unbounded influence over her husband, and she persuaded him to
falsehood, dishonesty, and treachery."

"Do not deny that she has courage," said St. Just. "She has borne her adversity well, though
she could not bear her prosperity."

"She has courage," said Lebas, "and how has she used it? in fighting an ineffectual battle
against the country who had received her with open arms. We must all be judged by posterity,
but no historian will dare to say that Marie Antoinette did not deserve the doom which now
awaits her."

How little are men able to conceive what award posterity will make in judging of their actions,
even when they act with pure motives, and on what they consider to be high principles; and
posterity is often as much in error in its indiscriminate condemnation of actions, as are the
actors in presuming themselves entitled to its praise.

When years have rolled by, and passions have cooled, the different motives and feelings of
the persons concerned become known to all, and mankind is enabled to look upon public acts
from every side. Not so the actors; they are not only in ignorance of facts, the knowledge
of which is necessary to their judging rightly, but falsehoods dressed .in the garb of facts
are studiously brought forward to deceive them, and men thus groping in darkness are forced
to form opinions, and to act upon them.

Public men are like soldiers fighting in a narrow valley: they see nothing but what is close
around them, and that imperfectly, as everything is in motion. The historian is as the general,
who stands elevated on the high ground, and, with telescope in hand, sees plainly all the different
movements of the troops. He would be an inconsiderate general, who would expect that his officers
in action should have had as clear an idea of what was going on, as he himself had been able
to obtain.

There was no murder perpetrated during the French Revolution, under the pretext of a judicial
sentence, which has created more general disgust than has that of Marie Antoinette. She came
as a stranger to the country, which on that account owed to her its special protection. She
had been called to France to be a Queen, and her greatest crime was that she would not give
up the high station she had been invited to fill. She had been a faithful wife to a husband
who did not love her till he knew her well, and who was slow in learning anything. She had
been a good mother to the children, who were born, as she believed, to rule the destinies of
France.

She had clung to a falling cause, with a sense of duty which was as admirable as her courage,
and at last she died with the devoted heroism which so well became her mother's daughter. But
what we now look on as virtues, were vices in the eyes of the republicans, who were her judges.
Her constancy was stubbornness, and her courage was insolence. Her innocent mirth was called
licentiousness, and the royal splendour which she had been taught to maintain, was looked upon
as iniquitous extravagance. Nor was this, even in those bloody days, enough to condemn her.
Lies of the basest kind were, with care and difficulty, contrived to debase her character--lies
which have now been proved to be so, but which were then not only credible, but sure to receive
credit from those who already believed that all royal blood was, from its nature, capable of
every abomination.

When Lebas so confidently predicated the sentence which posterity would pass on the fall of
Marie Antoinette, none of his auditors doubted the correctness of his prophecy. Posterity,
however, more partial to the frivolities of courts than to the fury of revolutions, has acquitted
the Queen, and passed, perhaps, too heavy a sentence on the judges who condemned her. Till
the power of Satan over the world has been destroyed, and man is able to walk uprightly before
his Maker, the virtues of one generation will be the vices of another.

CHAPTER III

THE LAST DAY AT DURBELLIERE

After the re-capture of Durbelliere, and the liberation of Santerre, the Vendeans again assembled
in arms in different portions of the revolted district, and fought their battles always with
valour, and not unfrequently with success. They did not, however, again form themselves into
one body, till the beginning of October, when news having reached them that a large army, under
fiercer leaders, was to be sent by the Republic for their extermination, it became necessary
to take some decided step for their own protection. The Vendean Generals then decided to call
together all the men they could collect at Chatillon, a town in the very centre of their country,
and there also to prepare such a quantity of military stores and ammunition, as would make
the place a useful and secure basis for their movements.

Some jealousy had arisen among the Generals; and on the death of Cathelineau, d'Elbee had been
chosen Commander-in-Chief, through the influence of those who were envious of the popularity
of M. de Lescure. On the latter, however, the management of the war depended; and though his
exertions were greatly impeded by the factious spirit which unfortunately prevailed among the
royalists, he nevertheless succeeded in collecting, equipping, and maintaining a considerable
army. The republican troops of Lechelle and Thurreau were not long in making their way to the
devoted district, and tidings soon reached Chatillon that they were devastating the country
round Doue and Vihiers, and that parties of them had advanced to the neighbourhood of Cholet.

It was then determined at Chatillon that the royalist army should advance towards the republicans:
that they should fight them on the first field of battle on which they could meet them, and
that if beaten, they should cross the Loire into Britanny, and make their way to the coast,
to meet the succour which had been promised them from England. Every day that the battle was
delayed, hundreds of children and women perished in cold blood, numberless humble dwellings
were reduced to ashes. The commands of Robespierre were being executed; the land was being
saturated with the blood of its inhabitants.

De Lescure and Larochejaquelin were both staying at Chatillon. But Chatillon is but a league
or two from Durbelliere, and one or the other of them was almost daily at the chateau. They
had many cares upon them besides those of the army; cares which, though not productive of so
much actual labour, sat, if possible, heavier on their hearts. What were they to do with those
dear but weak friends who were still at the chateau? three loving and beloved women, and an
infirm old man, more helpless even than the women! They could not be left at Durbelliere, for
the chateau would doubtless, before long, be again taken by some marauding party of their enemies,
and any death would be preferable to the fate which would there await them.

Henri now felt the weight of those miseries which his father had foretold; when he, flushed
with the victory at Saumur, returned home after the campaign in which he had first drawn his
sword so gloriously. He felt that he had done his duty, and therefore he regretted nothing;
but he also felt that he might probably soon be without the power of protecting those who were
so much dearer to him than his life, and the suffering arising from such thoughts was almost
more than he could bear.

It was at last determined that the whole party should leave the chateau, and go over to Chatillon--there
would be at any rate a better chance of security there than at Durbelliere, and also better
means of escape, should the town fall into the hands of their enemies.

It was a grievous thing to tell that old man that he must leave the house, where he had spent
his quiet life, and go to strange places, to finish the short remainder of his days amid the
turmoil of battles, and the continual troubles and dangers of a moving army. Nevertheless he
bore it well. At first he beseeched them to leave him and old Momont, among his birds and cherry
trees, declaring that nothing that the blues could do to him would be to him so calamitous
as his removal from the spot in which he had so long taken root. But his children soon made
him understand that it was impossible that they could abandon him, a cripple as he was, unattended,
and exposed to the certain fury of the republicans. He yielded, therefore, and when the sad
day came, he blamed no one, as they lifted him into the huge carriage, in which he was removed
to Chatillon. To the last he was proudly loyal to the King; and, as he was carried over the
threshold of his door, he said, that if God would grant him another favour in this world, it
would be, that he might return once more to his own home, to welcome there some scion of his
royal master's house.

Henri, de Lescure, and the little Chevalier, all came over to spend the last day at Durbelliere,
and a melancholy day it was. Madame de Lescure, Marie, and Agatha were also there, and all
the servants, most of whom had been born in the family, and all of whom, excepting Chapeau
and one maid, were now to be sent abroad to look for their living in a country in which the
life itself of every native was in hourly danger. Hard they begged to be allowed to link their
fate to that of their young mistress, declaring that they would never more complain, even though
they were again called out to die, as they had been on that fearful evening when Santerre had
found himself unable to give the fatal order. It was impossible--the safety of four women,
who would probably have to be carried backwards and forwards through a country bristling with
hostile troops, was a fearful burden to the young leaders; it would have been madness for them
to increase it. The wretched girls, therefore, prepared to make their way to the homes of their
relatives, knowing that those homes would soon be turned into heaps of ashes. It was a bright
warm autumn day this, the last which the Larochejaquelins were to pass together in the mansion
in which they had all been born. The men came over early, and breakfasted at the chateau, and
both Henri and Arthur worked hard to relieve the sadness of the party with some sparks of their
accustomed gaiety; the attempt, however, was futile; they each felt that their hours of gaiety
were gone by, and before the meal was over, they had both resolved that any attempt at mirth
that day, would be a stretch of hypocrisy beyond their power.

When breakfast was over, the Marquis begged that, for the last time, he might be wheeled round
the garden-walks, which he loved so well, and accordingly he was put into his chair, and, accompanied
by his children and friends, was dragged through every alley, and every little meandering path.
He would not spare himself a single turn--he had a tear to give to every well-known tree, an
adieu to make to every painted figure. To de Lescure and the others, the comic attitudes of
these uncouth ornaments was, at the present moment, any thing but interesting; but to the Marquis,
each of them was an old and well-loved friend, whom even in his extremity he could hardly bring
himself to desert. On their return into the house from the garden, they began to employ themselves
with arranging and packing the little articles which they intended to take with them. They
had all counted on having much to do during the short hours of this one last day; on being
hurried and pressed, so as to be hardly able to get through their task; but instead of this
their work was soon done, and the minutes hung heavy on their hands. They would not talk of
the things which were near their hearts, for they feared to add to each other's misery; they
strove therefore to talk on indifferent subjects, and soon broke down in every attempt they
made at conversation.

Agatha never left her father's side for a moment, and though she seldom spoke to him, she did
a thousand little acts of sedulous attention, which showed him that she was near to him. Her
gentle touch was almost as precious to him as her voice. De Lescure sat near his wife the whole
day, speaking to her from time to time in a whisper, and feeling the weight upon his spirits
so great that even with her he could hardly talk freely. He was already without a roof which
he could call his own, and he was aware his friends would soon be equally desolate; such hitherto
had been the result of their gallant enterprise.

Henri had much to say--much that he had made up his mind to say to Marie before he left Durbelliere,
but he put off the moment of saying it from hour to hour, and it was not till near midnight
that it was said. Marie herself, bore herself more manfully, if I may say so, than any of them;
she really employed herself, and thought of a thousand things conducive to their future comfort,
which would have been forgotten or neglected had she not been there. The little Chevalier tried
hard to assist her, but the pale sad face of Agatha, and the silent tears which from time to
time moistened the cheeks of the Marquis, and told how acute were the sufferings which he tried
in vain to hide, were too much for the poor boy; he soon betook himself alone into the cherry
grove, where he wandered about unseen, and if the truth must be told, more than once threw
himself on the ground, and wept bitterly and aloud.

They sat down to dinner about three o'clock; but their dinner was, if possible, a worse affair
than their breakfast. They were not only sad, but worn out and jaded with sorrow. The very
servants, as they moved the dishes, sobbed aloud; and at last, Momont, who had vainly attempted
to carry himself with propriety before the others, utterly gave way, and throwing himself on
to a chair in the salon, declared that nothing but violence should separate him from his master.

"It is five-and-fifty years," said he, sobbing, "since I first waited on Monseigneur. We were
boys then, and now we are old men together It is not natural that we should part. Where he
goes, I will go. I will cling to his carriage, unless they cut me down with swords."

No one could rebuke the old man--certainly not the master whom he loved so well; and though
they knew that it would be impossible to provide for him, none of them at the moment had the
heart to tell him so.

By degrees the daylight faded away, and for the last time, they watched the sun sink down among
the cherry trees of Durbelliere, and the Marquis, seated by the window, gazed into the West
till not a streak of light was any longer visible; then he felt that the sun of this world
had set for him for good and all. Even though he might live out a few more weary years, even
though the cause to which he was attached should be victorious, yet he knew that Durbelliere
would be destroyed, and it never could be anything to him how the sun set or rose in any other
place. His warm heart yearned towards his house; the very chair on which he sat, the stool
on which rested his crippled legs, were objects of an affection which he had before felt, but
never till now acknowledged. Every object on which his eye rested gave him a new pang; every
article within his reach was a dear friend, whom he had long loved, and was now to leave for ever.

Still he did not utter one word of complaint; he did not once murmur at his fate; he never
reminded his son that he had, by his impetuosity, hurried on his old father to destruction.
He never repined at the sacrifice he had made--I will not say for his King, for King at present
he had none; the throne had been laid low, and the precious blood of him who should have filled
it had been shed. No; his sacrifices had been to an abstract feeling of loyalty, which made
fealty to the Crown, whether worn or in abeyance, only second in his bosom to obedience to his God.

The day faded away, and they still sat together in the room in which they had dined, each wrapped
in his own thoughts, till the darkness of night was upon them, and still no one felt inclined
to rise and ask for candles.

After a long pause, Arthur made a bold attempt to break through the heaviness of the evening.
"We are not so badly off, at any rate," said he, "as we were on that night when Santerre and
his men were here; are we, Agatha?"

"We are not badly off at all," said Henri. "We have now what we never had before--a fine army
collected together in one spot, a promise of succour from faithful England, and a strong probability
of ultimate success. After all, what are we giving up but an old barrack? Let the rascal blues
burn it; cannot we build a better Durbelliere when the King shall have his own again?"

"Ah, Henri!" said the Marquis. It was the only reproach he uttered, though the words of his
son, intended as they were to excite hope, and to give comfort, had been to him most distasteful.

Henri was in a moment at his father's feet. "Pardon me, father!" said he; "you know that I
did not mean to give you pain. We all love the old house--none of us so well as you perhaps;
but we all love it; yet what can we do? Were we to remain here, we should only be smothered
beneath its ashes."

"God's will be done, my son. He knows that I do not begrudge my house in his service, and in
that of my royal master. It is not likely that I should do so, when I have not begrudged the
blood of my children."

They were all to start on the following morning by break of day, and, therefore, the necessity
of early rising gave them an excuse desired by all, for retiring early for the night. They
could not talk together, for every word that was spoken begot fresh sources of sorrow; they
could not employ themselves, for their minds were unhinged and unfitted for employment; so
they agreed that they would go to bed, and before nine o'clock, the family separated for the night.

They did not, however, all go to rest. Henri, as he handed a light to his cousin, told her
that he wanted to speak two words to her in his sister's room, and as she did not dissent,
he followed the two girls thither. Two words! It took nearly the whole long night to say those
two words.

Henri Larochejaquelin had thought long and deeply on the position in which he and his betrothed
were now placed, before he made the request to which he asked her to listen that night, and
it was from no selfish passion that he made it. In the presence of his sister, he asked her
to marry him as soon as they reached Chatillon, so that when next the army separated, he might
deem himself her natural protector. He had already asked and obtained de Lescure's permission.
The brother gave it, not absolutely unwillingly, but with strong advice to Henri to take no
new cares upon himself during the present crisis, and declaring that he would use no influence
with his sister, either one way or the other.

Marie, with a woman's instinct, anticipated the nature of Henri's two words, and in a moment
resolved on the answer she would give him: if her lover was generous, so would she be; she
would never consent to link herself to him at a moment when the union could only be to him
a source of additional cares and new sorrow.

Henri soon made his request: he did not do it, as he would have done in happier times; kneeling
at her feet, and looking into her eyes for that love, which he might well know he should find
there: he had not come to talk of the pleasures and endearments of affection, and to ask for
her hand as the accomplishment of all his wishes; but he spoke of their marriage as a providential
measure, called for by the calamitous necessities of the moment, and in every argument which
he used, he appealed to Agatha to support him.

"No, Henri," said Marie, after she had already answered him with a faint, but what she intended
to be a firm denial. "No, it must not, cannot, ought not be so. I am, I know, somewhat de trop
in this tragedy we are playing. There are you and Charles, two good knights and true, and each
of you has a lady whom it is his duty to protect. I am a poor forlorn young damsel, and though
both of you are so gallant as to offer me a hand to help me over the perilous path we are treading,
I know that I am grievously in the way."

"You are joking now, love," said Henri, "and I am not only speaking, but thinking, in most
true and sober earnest."

"No, Henri, I am not joking; am I, Agatha? One need not be joking because one does not use
harsh, grim words. What I say is true. I must be an additional burden either to you or Charles.
You are already the heaviest laden, for you have your father to care for. Besides, I have a
claim upon Charles; I have for eighteen years been to him an obedient sister."

"And have you no claim on me, Marie?"

"A slight one, as a cousin; but only in default of Charles. Don't look so unhappy," and she
held out her little hand to him as she spoke. "The day may come when I shall have a still stronger
claim upon you; when I have been to you for eighteen years an obedient wife."

"These are times when stern truths must be spoken," said Henri. "The lives of us all must now
be in constant jeopardy--that is, of us who must go out to battle."

"Ay, and of us women too. Don't be afraid of our lacking courage. Do not be afraid that the
truth will frighten us. Agatha, and Victorine, and I, have schooled ourselves to think of death
without flinching."

"To think without flinching of the death of others, is the difficulty," said Agatha. "I fear
we have none of us as yet brought ourselves to that."

"But we must think of the death of others," said Henri. "Should de Lescure fall--"

"May God Almighty in His mercy protect and guard him!" said the sister.

"But should he fall--and in battle there is none, I will not say so rash, but so forward as
him--should he fall, will it not be a comfort to him to know that his sister has a husband
to protect her; that his widow has a brother to whom she can turn. Should I fall, will it not
be better for Agatha that you should be more closely knit together even than you are?"

"That can never be, can it, Agatha? We can never be more entirely sisters than we are."

"You talk like a child, Marie. You perhaps may never have a warmer love for each other than
you now have, but that is not the question. You must see how great would be the advantage to
us all of our union being at once completed You should not now allow a phantasy of misplaced
generosity to stand in the way of an arrangement  which is so desirable."

"Nay, Henri, now you are neither fair nor courteous. You are presuming a little on the affection
which I have owned in arguing that I am prevented only by what you call generosity from so
immediate a marriage; that is as much as to say, that if I consulted my own wishes only, I
should marry you at once."

"It is you that are now unfair," said Agatha. "You know that he did not mean to draw such a
conclusion. You almost tempt me to say that he might do so, without being far wrong. You are
flirting now, Marie."

"Heaven help me then; but if so, I have committed that sin most unconsciously, and, I believe,
for the first time in my life. I have had but one lover, and I accepted him, the very moment
that he spoke to me. I can, at any rate, have but little flirtation to answer for."

"Alas! dearest love," said Henri, "we are both driven to think and talk of these things in
a different tone from that which is usual in the world. If I was merely seeking to transplant
you in days of peace from your own comfortable home, to be the pride and ornament of mine,
I would not curtail by one iota the privilege of your sex. I wouldn't presume to think that
you could wish yourself to give up your girlish liberty. If you allowed me any hope, I would
ascribe it all to the kindness of your disposition; your word should be my law, and though
I might pray for mercy, I would submissively take my fate from your lips. I would write odes
to you, if I were able, and would swear in every town in Poitou that you were the prettiest
girl, and sweetest angel in all France, Italy, or Spain."

"Thanks, Henri, thanks; but now you have too much to do to trouble yourself with such tedious
gallantries. Is not that to be the end of your fine speech?"

"Trouble myself, Marie!"

"Yes, trouble yourself, Henri, and it would trouble me too. It is not that I regret such nonsense.
I accept your manly love as it has been offered, and tell you that you have my whole heart.
It is from no girlish squeamishness, from no wish to exercise my short-lived power, that I
refuse to do what you now ask me. I would marry you tomorrow, were you to ask me, did I not
think that I should be wrong to do so. Am I now not frank and honest?"

Henri put his arms round her waist, and clasped her to his bosom before he answered her:

"You are, you are, my own, own love. You were always true, and honest, and reasonable--so reasonable
that--"

"Ah! now you are going to encroach."

"I am going to ask you once again to think of what I have said. It is not to your love, but
to your reason, that I now appeal."

"Well, Henri, we will leave love aside, and both of us appeal to reason. Here she sits, always
calm, passionless, and wise," and Marie put her hand upon Agatha's arm. "We will appeal to
Reason personified, and if Reason says that, were she situated as I am, she would do as you
now wish me to do, I will be guided by Reason, and comply." Henri now turned round to his sister,
but Marie stopped him from speaking, and continued: "I have pledged myself, and do you do likewise.
If Reason gives her judgment against you, you will yield without a word."

"Well, I will do so," said Henri. "I'm sure, however, she will not; Agatha must see the importance
of our being joined as closely together as is possible."

"You are attempting to influence Dame Reason, but it will be useless. And now, Reason, you
are to remember, as of course you do, for Reason forgets nothing, that you are to think neither
of brothers or of sisters. You are entirely to drop your feelings as Agatha, and to be pure
Reason undefiled by mortal taint. You are to say, whether, were you, Reason, placed as I am
now, you would marry this unreasonable young man as soon as he gets to Chatillon, which means
tomorrow, or the day after, or the day after that at the very latest. Now, Reason, speak, and
speak wisely."

"You have given me a thankless task between you. I cannot decide without giving pain to one
of you."

"Reason always has a thankless task," said Marie. "Reason is her own reward--and a very unpleasant
reward she usually has."

"Do you think," said Henri, "it will give so much pain to Marie to be told that she is to marry
the man whom she owns she loves?"

"Ah, Henri," said Agatha, "you are prejudiced. I do not mean as to Marie's love, but as to
my award. I might, perhaps, not pain her so much by advising her to marry you at once, as I
fear I shall pain you by telling her, that in her place, I should not do so."

They both sat in breathless silence to hear their fate from Agatha's lips. Though Marie had
appealed to her with a degree of playfulness, which gave to her an air of indifference on the
subject, she was anything but indifferent; and yet it would have been difficult to analyse
her wishes; she was quite decided that it was becoming in her to refuse Henri's prayer, nay,
that it would be selfish in her to grant it; and yet, though she appealed to Reason so confidently
to confirm her refusal, there was a wish, almost a hope, near her heart, that Agatha might
take her brother's part. They were, neither of them, perhaps, gratified by the decision.

"Reason has said it," said Marie, after a short pause, "and Reason shall be rewarded with a
kiss;" and she put her arms round her cousin's neck and kissed her.

"But why, Agatha, tell me why?" said Henri. He, at any rate, was not ashamed to show that he
was disappointed.

"Do not be so inconsiderate as to ask Reason for reasons," said Marie.

"I will tell you why, Henri. I would never consent to make myself a burden to a man at a moment
when I could not make myself a comfort to him; besides, the time of marriage should be a time
of joy, and this is no time for joy. Again, there is a stronger and sadder reason still. Did
you ever see a young widow, who had not reached her twentieth year? if so, did you ever see
a sadder sight? Would you unnecessarily doom our dear Marie to that fate! I know you so well,
my dear brother, that I do not fear to speak to you of the too probable lot of a brave soldier!"

"That is enough!" said Henri, "I am convinced."

"Do not say that, Agatha, do not say that," said Marie, springing up and throwing herself into
her lover's arms. "Indeed, indeed, it was not of that I thought. Though we should never marry,
yet were you to fall, your memory should be the same to me as that of a husband. I could never
forget your love--your disinterested love--there is no treasure on this side the grave which
I so value. It is the pride of my solitary hours, and the happiness of the few happy thoughts
I have. The world would be nothing to me without you. When you are away, I pray to God to bring
you back to me. When you are with us I am dreading the moment that you will go. Oh, Agatha,
Agatha! why did you say those last fearful words!"

"You asked me for the truth, Marie, and it was right that I should tell it you; it was on my
tongue to say the same to Henri, before you appealed to me at all."

"You were right, dearest Agatha," said Henri; "and now, God bless you, Marie. I value such
love as yours highly as it is worth. I trust the day may come when I can again ask you for
your hand."

"I will never refuse it again. You shall have it now, tomorrow, next day, any day that you
will ask it. Oh, Agatha! my brain is so turned by what you have said, that I could almost go
on my knees to beg him to accept it."

"Come, Henri, leave us," said Agatha, "and prevent such a scandal as that would be; there are
but a few hours for us to be in bed."

Henri kissed his sister, and when he gave his hand to Marie, she did not turn her lips away
from him; and as he threw himself on his bed, he hardly knew whether, if he could have his
own way, he would marry her at once or not.

CHAPTER IV

THE CHAPEL OF GENET

About ten days after the departure of the Larochejaquelins from Durbelliere, three persons
were making the best of their way, on horseback, through one of the deepest and dirtiest of
the byeways, which in those days, served the inhabitants of Poitou for roads, and along which
the farmers of the country contrived with infinite pains and delay, to drag the produce of
their fields to the market towns. The lane, through which they were endeavouring to hurry the
jaded animals on which they were mounted, did not lead from one town to another, and was not
therefore paved; it was merely a narrow track between continual rows of high trees, and appeared
to wind hither and thither almost in circles, and the mud at every step covered the fetlocks
of the three horses. The party consisted of two ladies and a man, who, though he rode rather
in advance of, than behind his companions, and spoke to them from time to time, was their servant:
a boy travelled on foot to show them the different turns which their road made necessary to
them; and though, when chosen for the duty, he had received numerous injunctions as to the
speed with which he should travel, the urchin on foot had hitherto found no difficulty in keeping
up with the equestrians. The two ladies were Madame de Lescure and her sister-in-law, and the
servant was our trusty friend Chapeau. And we must go back a little to recount as quickly as
we can, the misfortunes which brought them into their present situation.

No rest was allowed to the Vendean chiefs after reaching Chatillon from Durbelliere. The rapid
advance of the republican troops made them think it expedient to try the chance of battle with
them at once. They had consequently led out their patriot bands as far as Cholet, and had there,
after a murderous conflict, been grievously worsted. No men could have fought better than did
the Vendean peasants, for now they had joined some degree of discipline and method to their
accustomed valour; but the number of their enemies was too great for them, and they consisted
of the best soldiers of whom France could boast. The Vendeans, moreover, could not choose their
own battle-field. They could not fight as they had been accustomed to do, from behind hedges,
and with every advantage of locality on their side. They had thrown themselves on the veteran
troops, who had signalized themselves at Valmy and Mayence, with a courage that amounted to
desperation, but which, as it had not purchased victory, exposed them to fearful carnage. D'Elbe,
who acted as Commander-in-Chief, fell early in the day. Bonchamps, whose military skill was
superior to that of any of the Vendeans; was mortally wounded, and before the battle was lost,
de Lescure--the brave de Lescure, whom they all so loved, so nearly worshipped--was struck
down and carried from the field.

There was an immense degree of superstition mixed up with the religious fervour of the singular
people who were now fighting for their liberty; and many of them sincerely believed that de
Lescure was invulnerable, and that they were secure from any fatal reverse as long as he was
with them. This faith was now destroyed; and when the rumour spread along their lines that
he had been killed, they threw down their arms, and refused to return to the charge. It was
in vain that Henri Larochejaquelin and the young Chevalier tried to encourage them; that they
assured them that de Lescure was still living, and exposed their own persons in the thickest
of the enemy's fire. It was soon too evident that the battle was lost, and that all that valour
and skill could do, was to change the flight into a retreat.

Many personal reasons would have made Henri prefer returning towards Chatillon, but it had
been decided that, in the event of such a disaster as that which had now befallen them, the
cause in which they were engaged would be best furthered by a general retreat of all the troops
across the Loire into Brittany; and consequently Henri, collecting together what he could of
his shattered army, made the best of his way to St. Florent. The men did not now hurry to their
homes, as they did after every battle, when the war first began; but their constancy to their
arms arose neither from increased courage nor better discipline. They knew that their homes
were now, or would soon be, but heaps of ruins, and that their only hope of safety consisted
in their remaining with the army. This feeling, which prevented the dispersion of the men,
had another effect, which added greatly to the difficulty of the officers. The wives, children,
and sisters of the Vendean peasants, also flocked to the army in such numbers, that by the
time the disordered multitude reached St. Florent, Henri found himself surrounded by 80,000
human, creatures, flying from the wrath of the blues, though not above a quarter of that number
were men capable of bearing arms.

De Lescure, in a litter, accompanied them to St. Florent, and Chapeau was sent back to Chatillon
to bid the ladies and the old Marquis join the army at that place. Chapeau was sent direct
from the field of battle before it was known whether or no M. de Lescure's wound was mortal,
and at a moment when Henri could give him nothing but a general direction as to the route which
the army was about to take. Chapeau reached Chatillon without accident; but having reached
it, he found that his difficulties were only about to commence. What was he to tell Madame
de Lescure of her husband? How was he to convey the three ladies and the Marquis from Chatillon
to St. Florent, through a country, the greater portion of which would then be in the hands
of the blues?

Make the best he could of it, the news was fearfully bad. He told Madame de Lescure that her
husband was certainly wounded, but that as certainly he was not killed; and that he had every
reason, though he could not say what reason, to believe that the wound was not likely to be
fatal. The doubt conveyed in these tidings was, if possible, more fearful than any certainty;
added to this was the great probability that Chatillon would, in a day or two, be in the hands
of the republicans. They decided, or rather Chapeau decided for them, that they should start
immediately for St. Florent; and that, instead of attempting to go by the direct road, they
should make their way thither by bye-lanes, and through small villages, in which they possibly
might escape the ferocity of their enemies.

A huge waggon was procured, and in it a bed was laid, on which the unfortunate old man could
sit, and with the two horses which they had brought with them from Durbelliere, they started
on their journey. They rested the first night at St. Laurent, the place where Agatha had established
an hospital, and where Cathelineau had died. The Sisters of Mercy who had tended it were still
there, but the wards were now deserted. Not that the wars afforded no occupants for them, but
the approach of the republicans had frightened away even the maimed and sick. On the following
morning Madame de Lescure declared that she could no longer endure the slow progress of the
waggon, and consequently, Chapeau having with difficulty succeeded in procuring three horses,
she started, accompanied by him and her sister-in-law, to make her way as best she could to
her husband, while the Marquis and his daughter, with a guide, followed in the cumbrous waggon.

On the second day the equestrians crossed the Sevre, at Mortaigne, and reached Torfou in safety.
On the third day they passed Montfaucon, and were struggling to get on to a village called
Chaudron, not far from St. Florent, when we overtook them at the beginning of the chapter.

They had already, however, began to doubt that they could possibly succeed in doing so. The
shades of evening were coming on them. The poor brutes which carried them were barely able
to lift their legs, and, Madame de Lescure was so overpowered with fatigue and anxiety, that
she could hardly sustain herself in the pillion on which she sat.

The peasants whom they met from time to time asked them hundreds of questions about the war.
Many of the men of the district were already gone, and their wives and children were anxious
to follow them, but the poor creatures did not know which way to turn. They did not know where
the army was, or in what quarter they would be most secure. They had an undefined fear that
the blues were coming upon them with fire and slaughter, and that they would be no longer safe,
even in their own humble cottages.

One person told them that Chaudron was distant only two leagues, and hearing this they plucked
up their courage, and made an effort to rouse that of their steeds. Another, however, soon
assured them that it was at the very least a long five leagues to Chaudron, and again their
spirits sank in despair. A third had never heard the name of the place, and at last a fourth
informed them, that whatever the distance might be, they were increasing it every moment, and
that their horses' heads were turned exactly in the wrong direction. Then at length their young
guide confessed that he must have lost his way, and excused himself by declaring that the turnings
were so like one another that it was impossible for any one in that country really to remember
his way at a distance of more than two leagues from his own home.

"And what village are we nearest to, my friend?" said Chapeau, inquiring of the man who had
given the above unwelcome information.

"Why the chapel of Genet," said he, "is but a short quarter of a league from you, and the Cure's
house is close by, but the village and the chateau are a long way beyond that, and not on the
straight road either."

"Ask him the Cure's name, Chapeau," said Marie: "we will go there and tell him, who we are.'

"If he lives in his own house quietly now, Mademoiselle," answered Chapeau, "it would be dangerous
to do so; he must be one of the constitutional priests." He asked the man, however, what was
the name of the Cure.

"Why the regular old Cure went away long since, and another was here a while in his place--"

"Well, and he has gone away now, I suppose?" said Chapeau.

"Why, yes; he went away too a while since, when Cathelineau turned the soldiers out of St.
Florent."

"God bless him," said Chapeau, meaning Cathelineau, and not the priest. "And is there no one
in the house now, my friend? for you see these two ladies are unable to travel further. If
there be a friend living there, I am sure he will procure them some accommodation."

"And where did the ladies come from?" asked the man.

"You need not be afraid," replied Chapeau, "they, and all belonging to them, are friends to
the good cause;" and then, after considering within himself for a while, he added, "I will
tell you who they are, they are the wife and sister of M. de Lescure."

Had he told the man that they were angels from heaven, and had the man believed him, he could
neither have been more surprised, or expressed a stronger feeling of adoration.

The poor man implored a multitude of blessings on the two ladies, whose names were so dear
to every peasant of La Vendee, and then told them that after the new priest had ran away, the
old Cure had come back to his own house again, but that Father Bernard was a very old man,
hardly strong enough even to perform mass, though, as there was no one else to it, he did go
through it every Sabbath morning; that for these two days past there had been another priest
staying with Father Bernard; he did not, however, know what his name was, but he knew that
he had been with the army, and that no priest through all La Vendee had been more active than
he had been to encourage the royalists. The man then offered to show them to the Cure's house,
and they all turned thither together.

The little chapel was on one side of the road, and the humble house of the parish priest was
immediately opposite to it, ensconced among a few trees, at a little distance from the road.
The door of the chapel was open, and the murmuring sound of low voices within told the party
that vespers were being sung. Madame de Lescure did not like calling at the priest's house
without being announced, and she therefore desired Chapeau to go down and explain who she was,
and the circumstances under which she begged for the Cure's hospitality, and proposed that
she and Marie should get off their horses, and remain in the chapel till Chapeau returned.

They entered the little chapel, and found in it about a dozen peasants on their knees, while
a priest was chaunting the vespers from a small side altar, built in a niche in the wall. It
was now late, and the light, which even abroad was growing dimmer every moment, was still less
strong within the building. They could not, therefore, see the face of the priest as he knelt
at the side of the altar, but the voice seemed familiar to both of them.

Madame de Lescure, perhaps as much from fatigue as from devotion, sank down at once upon her
knees against a little stone seat which projected from the wall near the door, but Marie remained
standing, straining her eyes to try to catch the features of the Cure. After a moment or two
she also knelt down, and said in a whisper to her sister, "It is the Cure of St. Laud--it is
our own Father Jerome."

They had hardly been a minute or two in their position near the door, when the service for
the evening was over, and the priest, rising from the altar, gave his blessing to the little
congregation. Some of them rose from their knees and left the chapel, but a portion of them
still remained kneeling, with their heads in their hands, trying to make up, by the length
and perseverance of their devotion, for any deficiency there might be in its fervour. The two
ladies also rose, and though they doubted for a moment what to do, they both advanced to the
rude steps of the little altar, at which Father Jerome was again kneeling. He had not seen
them as yet, nor had he noticed the entrance of any one, but the ordinary congregation of the
chapel; and so absorbed was he, either in his thoughts or his devotions, that he did not even
observe them till they were standing close to his elbow.

"Father Jerome," said Madame de Lescure in a low voice, laying her hand on the threadbare sleeve
of the old grey coat, which he still wore. "If you could guess the comfort I have in finding
you here!"

The priest sprang from his knees at hearing her voice, and gazed at her as though she had been
a ghost.

"Is it possible," said he, "Madame de Lescure and Mademoiselle here in the chapel of Genet!"
and then turning to the gaping peasants, he said, "go home, my children, go home! I have business
to speak of to these ladies."

"Oh, Father Jerome," said Madame de Lescure, as soon as they were alone, "for heaven's sake
tell me something of M. de Lescure. You have heard of what happened at Cholet?"

"Yes, Madame, I was there," said the priest.

"You were there! then you can tell me of my husband. For God's sake, speak, Father Jerome!
Tell me the worst at once. I can bear it, for it can't be worse than I expect. Is he--is he alive?"

Father Jerome had been in the midst of the hottest part of the battle at Cholet, sometimes
encouraging the troops by his words, and at others leading them on by his example, charging
at their head, with his huge crucifix lifted high in the air. He had been close to de Lescure
when he fell, and had seen him in his litter after he was carried from the field of battle.
He could, therefore, have said at once that he had seen him alive after the battle was over,
but he had no wish to deceive Madame de Lescure; and at the moment of which we are speaking,
he most undoubtedly believed that the wound had been fatal, and that her husband was no more.

A musket-ball had entered just below the eye, and making its way downwards, had lodged itself
in the back of his neck. A surgeon had examined the wound before Father Jerome left the army;
and though he had not positively said that it would prove mortal, he had spoken so unfavourably
of the case, as to make all those who heard him believe that it would be so.

Had Father Jerome expected to see the two nearest and dearest relations of the man whom he
thought to be now no more, he would have prepared himself for the difficult task which he would
have had to undertake, and no one would have been better able to go through it with feeling,
delicacy, and firmness; but such was not the case. The sudden apparition of the wife and sister
of his friend seemed to him to be supernatural; and though he at once made up his mind to give
no false hope, he could not so quickly decide in what way he should impart the sad news which
he had to tell.

Madame de Lescure was trembling so violently as she asked the question, on the answer to which
her fate depended, that the priest observed it, and he turned to the altar at the end of the
chapel, to fetch a rude chair which stood there for the use of the officiating clergyman, and
which was the only moveable seat in the chapel; and whilst doing so, he was enabled to collect
his thoughts, so as to answer not quite so much at random as he otherwise must have done.

"Sit down, Madame de Lescure," said he, "sit down, Mademoiselle," and he made the latter sit
down on the altar step. "You are fatigued, and you have agitated yourself too intensely."

"Why don't you speak, Father Jerome? Why don't you tell me at once--is he alive?" And then
she added, almost screaming in her agitation, "For God's sake, Sir, don't keep a wretched,
miserable woman in suspense!"

The priest gazed for a moment at the unfortunate lady. She had, at his bidding sunk upon the
chair, but she could hardly be said to be seated, as, with her knees bent under her, and her
hands clasped, she gazed up into his face. She felt that her husband was dead but still, till
the fatal word was spoken, there was hope enough within her heart to feed the agony of doubt
which was tormenting her. Marie had hitherto said nothing; she had made her own grief subservient
to that of her brother's wife, and, though hardly less anxious, she was less agitated than
the other.

"I cannot tell you anything with certainty, Madame," said the priest at last. "I cannot--"

"Then you do not know that he is dead! Then there is, at any rate, some room for hope!" said
she, not allowing him to finish what he was about to say; and she sank back in the chair, and
relieved her overwrought mind with a flood of tears.

The priest was firmly convinced that de Lescure was at this moment numbered among the dead,
and his conscience forbad him to relieve himself of his dreadful task, by allowing her to entertain
a false hope; he had still, therefore, to say the words which he found it so difficult to utter.

He sat down beside Marie on the low step of the altar, immediately opposite to Madame de Lescure;
he still had on him the vestments of his holy office, though they were much worn, shabby, and
soiled, and the cap, which formed a part of the priest's dress when officiating, was on his
head; his shoes were so worn and tattered, that they were nearly falling from his feet, and
the stockings, which displayed the shape of his huge legs, were so patched and darned with
worsteds of different colours, as to have made them more fitting for a mountebank than a. priest.
At the present moment, there was no one likely to notice his costume; but had there been an
observer there, it would have told him a tale, easy to be read, of the sufferings which had
been endured by this brave and faithful servant of the King.

"When God, Madame de Lescure," said he, speaking in a kind, peculiarly solemn tone of voice,
"when God called upon you to be the wife of him who has been to you so affectionate a husband,
He vouchsafed to you higher blessings, but at the same time imposed on you sterner duties than
those which women in general are called upon to bear. You have enjoyed the blessings, and if
I know your character, you will not shrink from the duties."

"I will shrink from nothing, Father Jerome," said she. "God's will be done! I will endeavour
to bear the burden which His Providence lays on me; but I have all a woman's weakness, and
all a woman's fears."

"He who has given strength and courage to so many of His people in these afflicted days, will
also give it to you; He will enable you to bear the weight of His hand, which in chastising,
blesses us, which in punishing us here, will render us fit for unutterable joys hereafter."
He paused a moment; but as neither of the women could now speak through their tears, he went
on: "I was close to your husband when he fell, and as his eyes closed on the battlefield, they
rested on the blessed emblem of his redemption."

"He is dead then!" said she, jumping from her chair, and struggling with the sobs which nearly
choked her. "Oh Sir, if you have the mercy which a man should feel for a wretched woman, tell
me at least the truth," and as she spoke, she threw herself on her knees before him.

Father Jerome certainly lacked no mercy, and usually speaking, he lacked no firmness; but now
he nearly felt himself overcome. "You must compose yourself before I can speak calmly to you,
my daughter--before you can even understand what I shall say to you. I will not even speak
to you till you are again seated, and then I will tell you everything. There--remember now,
I will tell you everything as it happened, and, as far as I know, all that did happen. You
must summon up your courage, my children, and show yourself worthy to have been the wife and
sister of that great man whom you loved so well."

"He is dead!" said Marie, speaking for the first time, and almost in a whisper. "I know now
that it is so," and she threw herself into her sister's lap, and embraced her knees.

The priest did not contradict her, but commenced a narrative, which he intended to convey to
his listeners exactly the same impressions which were on his own mind. In this, however, he
failed. He told them that de Lescure had been carried senseless from the field, and had been
taken by Henri in a litter on the road towards St. Florent; that he himself had been present
when the surgeon expressed an almost fatal opinion respecting the wound, but that the wounded
man was still alive when he last saw him, and that, since then, he had heard no certain news
respecting him. Even this statement, which the priest was unable to make without many interruptions,
acted rather as a relief than otherwise to Madame de Lescure. She might, at any rate, see her
husband again; and it was still possible that both the surgeon and Father Jerome might be wrong.
As soon as he had told his tale, she, forgetting her fatigue, and the difficulties which surrounded
her, wanted immediately to resume her journey, and Father Jerome was equally anxious to learn
how she and Marie had come so far, and how they intended to proceed.

Chapeau had in the mean time called on the old priest, and though he had found it almost impossible
to make him understand what he wanted, or who the ladies were of whom he spoke, he had learnt
that Father Jerome was in the chapel, and was as much gratified as he was surprised to hear
it. He had then hurried back, and though he had not put himself forward during the scene which
has been just described, he had heard what had passed.

He now explained to Father Jerome the way in which they had left Chatillon, and journeyed on
horseback from St. Laurent, and declared, at the same time with much truth, that it was quite
impossible for them to proceed farther on their way that night.

"The poor brutes are dead beat," said he. "All the spurs in Poitou wouldn't get them on a league.
The night will be pitch dark, too, and, above all, Madame and Mademoiselle would be killed.
They have already been on horseback all day--and so they were yesterday: it is quite clear
they must rest here tonight."

Chapeau's arguments against their farther progress were conclusive, and as there was no better
shelter to which to take them, Father Jerome led them into the little glebe. "There is but
one bed left in the place," said he, as he entered the gate, "but you will be very welcome
to that; you will find it poor enough; Father Bernard has shared it with me for the last two
nights. We poor Cures have not many luxuries to offer to our friends now."

Madame de Lescure tried to utter some kind of protest that she would not turn the poor old
man out of his only bed, but she succeeded badly in the attempt, for her heart was sad within
her, and she hardly knew what she was saying. They all followed Father Jerome out of the chapel,
of which he locked the door, and putting the key into his pocket, strode into the humble dwelling
opposite.

They found Father Bernard seated over a low wood fire, in a small sitting-room, in which the
smell arising from the burning of damp sticks was very prevalent. There was one small rickety
table in the middle of the room, and one other chair besides that occupied by the host, and
with these articles alone the room was furnished. That there was no carpet in a clergyman's
house in Poitou was not remarkable; indeed it would have been very remarkable if there had
been one; but the total want of any of the usual comforts of civilized life struck even Madame
de Lescure, unsuited as she was at the present moment to take notice of such things.

The old man did not rise, but stared at them somewhat wildly: he was nearly doting from age;
and fear, poverty, and sorrow, added to his many years, had now weighed him down almost to
idiotcy. Father Jerome did the honours of the house; he made Madame de Lescure sit down on
the chair, and then bustling into the kitchen, brought out a three legged stool, which he wiped
with the sleeve of his coat, and offered to Marie. Then he took Chapeau to the door, and whispered
to him some secret communication with reference to supper; in fact, he had to confess that
there was nothing in the house but bread, and but little of that. That neither he or Father
Bernard had a sou piece between them, and that unless Chapeau had money, and could go as far
as the village and purchase eggs, they would all have to go supperless to bed. Chapeau luckily
was provided, and started at once to forage for the party, and Father Jerome returned into
the room relieved from a heavy weight.

"My dear old friend here," said he, laying his hand on the old man's arm, "has not much to
offer you; but I am sure you are welcome to what -he has. There is not a heart in all La Vendee
beats truer to his sovereign than his. Old age, misfortune, and persecution, have lain a heavy
hand on him lately, but his heart still warms to the cause. Does it not my old friend?" And
Father Jerome looked kindly into his face, striving to encourage him into some little share
of interest in what was going on.

"I don't think I'll ever be warm again," said the old man, drawing his chair still nearer to
the dull smoky fire, and shivering as he did so. "Everything is cold now. I don't understand
why these ladies are come here, or what they're to do; but they're very welcome, Jerome, very
welcome. A strange man came in just now, and said they must have my bed."

"Oh no, Sir," said Madame de Lescure, inexpressibly shocked at the dreadful misery of the poor
old man; "indeed, indeed, we will not. It is only for one night, and we shall do very well.
Indeed, we would not turn you out of your bed."

"You are welcome, Madame, welcome to it all--welcome as the flowers in May. I know who you
are, though I forget your name; it is a name dear to all La Vendee. Your husband is a great
and good man; indeed, you shall have my bed, though you'll find it very cold. Your husband--but,
oh dear! I beg your pardon, Madame, I forgot."

I need not say that the evening which they spent at Genet, was melancholy enough, and the privations
which they suffered were dreadful. During the early part of the night both Madame de Lescure
and Marie lay down for a few hours, but nothing, which could be said, would induce them to
keep the old priest longer from his bed. About midnight they got up and spent the remainder
of the night seated on the two chairs near the fire, while Father Jerome squatted on the stool,
and with his elbows on his knees, and his face upon his hands, sat out the long night, meditating
upon the fortunes of La Vendee.

They started early on the next morning, and the priest of St. Laud's went with them, leaving
Father Bernard in perfect solitude, for he had neither friend or relative to reside beneath
his roof.

"Some of them will come down from time to time," said Father Jerome, "and do what little can
be done for him, poor old man! His sufferings, it is to be hoped, will not last many days."

"And will he perform mass next Sunday?" said Marie.

"Indeed he will, if able to walk across the road into the chapel, and will forget no word of
the service, and make no blunder in the ceremony. To you he seems to be an idiot, but he is
not so, though long suffering has made his mind to wander strangely, when he sees strange faces.
There are many who have been called to a more active sphere of duty for their King and country
than that poor Cure, but none who have suffered more acutely for the cause, and have born their
sufferings with greater patience."

CHAPTER V

THE VENDEANS AT ST. FLORENT.

The reader, it is hoped, will remember St. Florent; it was here that the first scene of this
tale opened; it was here that Cathelineau first opposed the exactions of the democratic government
and that the Vendeans, not then rejoicing in that now illustrious name, felt the first flush
of victory. It was here that 'Marie Jeanne' was taken from the troops of the Republic by the
valour of the townsmen, and, adorned with garlands by their sisters and daughters, was dragged
in triumph through the streets, with such bright presentiments of future success and glory.

The men of St. Florent had ever since that day borne a prominent part in the contest; they
felt that the people of Poitou had risen in a mass to promote the cause, which they had been
the first to take up; and they had considered themselves bound in honour to support the character
for loyalty which they had assumed: the consequence was that many of the bravest of its sons
had fallen, and that very few of its daughters had not to lament a lover, a husband, or a father.

St. Florent was now a melancholy careworn place. The people no longer met together in enthusiastic
groups to animate each other's courage, and to anticipate the glorious day when their sovereign
should come among them in person, to thank them for having been the first in Poitou to unfurl
the white flag. It is true that they did not go back from their high resolves, or shrink from
the bloody effects of their brave enterprise, but their talk now was of suffering and death;
they whispered together in twos and threes, at their own door-sills, instead of shouting in
the market-place. Cathelineau was dead, and Foret was dead, and they were the gallantest of
their townsmen. They had now also heard that everything had been staked on a great battle,
and that that battle had been lost at Cholet--that Bonchamps and d'Elbee had fallen, and that
de Lescure had been wounded and was like to die. They knew that the whole army was retreating
to St. Florent, and that the Republican troops would soon follow them, headed by Lechelle,
whose name already drove the colour from the cheeks of every woman in La Vendee. They knew
that a crowd of starving wretches would fall, like a swarm of locusts, on their already nearly
empty granaries; and that all the horrors attendant on a civil war were crowding round their
hearths.

It was late in the evening that the news of the battle reached the town, and early on the next
morning the landlord of the auberge was standing at his door waiting the arrival of Henri Larochejaquelin
and de Lescure. The town was all up and in a tumult; from time to time small parties of men
flocked in from Cholet, some armed, and some of whom had lost their arms; some slightly wounded,
and some fainting with fatigue, as they begged admission into the houses of the town's-people.
The aubergiste was resolute in refusing admittance to all; for tidings had reached him of guests
who would more than fill his house, on whom he looked as entitled to more than all he could
give them. It was at his hall door that the first blow had been struck, it was in rescuing
his servant that the first blood had been shed; and though the war had utterly ruined him,
he still felt that it would ill become him to begrudge anything that remained to him to those
who had suffered so much in the cause.

Peter Berrier, his ostler, stood behind him, teterrima belli causa! This man had at different
times been with the army, but had managed to bring himself safe out of the dangers of the wars
back to the little inn, and now considered himself an hero. He looked on himself in the light
in which classic readers look on Helen, and felt sure that the whole struggle had been commenced,
and was continued on his account. He was amazed to find how little deference was paid to him,
not only by the Vendeans in general, but even by his own town's-people.

"I shall never be made to understand this business of Cholet," said he to his master, "never.
There must have been sad want there of a good head; aye, and of a good heart too, I fear. Well,
well, to turn and run! Vendean soldiers to turn and run before those beggarly blues!"

"You'd have been the first, Peter, to show a clean pair of heels yourself, if you'd been there,"
said the landlord.

"Me show a clean pair of heels! I didn't run away at Saumur, nor yet at Fontenay, nor yet at
many another pitched battle I saw. I didn't run away here at St. Florent, I believe, when a
few of us took the barracks against a full regiment of soldiers."

"You couldn't well run then, for you were tied by the leg in the stable there."

"No, I was not; it was only for a minute or two I was in the stable. Would Cathelineau or Foret
have turned their backs, think ye? When I was alongside of those two men, I used to feel that
the three of us were a match for the world in arms; and they had the same feeling too exactly.
Well, two of the three are gone, but I would sooner have followed them than have turned my
back upon a blue."

"You're a great warrior, Peter, and it's a pity you didn't stay with the army."

"Perhaps it is, perhaps it is. Perhaps I shouldn't have left it; but I was driven away by little
jealousies. Even great men have their failings. But they certainly made some queer selections
when they chose the twelve captains at Saumur. There's not one of them left with the army now
but M. Henri, and what's he but a boy?"

"He has done a man's work at any rate!"

"He's brave, there's no denying that. He's very brave, but what then; there's that impudent
puppy of a valet of his, Chapeau; he's brave too: at least they say so. But what's bravery?
Can they lead an army? is there anything of the General about them? Can they beat the blues?

"Didn't he manage to beat the blues at Amaillou and at Coron, and at Durbelliere? Faith, I
think he has done nothing but beat them these three months."

"There's nothing of the General in him, I tell you. Haven't I seen him in battle now; he's
quite at home at a charge, I grant you; and he's not bad in a breach; but Lord bless you, he
can't command troops."

The landlord and his servant were still standing at the door of the inn, when the party for
whom they were waiting made its appearance in the square of the town. It consisted of a waggon,
in which the wounded man was lying, of three or four men on horseback, among whom were Henri
Larochejaquelin and the little Chevalier, and a crowd of men on foot, soldiers of the Vendean
army, who had not left the side of their General since he had fallen at Cholet.

During the latter part of his journey, de Lescure had been sensible, and had suffered dreadfully
both in mind and body. He had never felt so confident of success as Henri and others had done,
and had carried on the war more from a sense of duty than from a hope of restoring the power
of the crown. He now gave way to that despondency which so often accompanies bodily suffering.
He felt certain that his own dissolution was near, and on that subject his only anxiety was
that he might see his wife before he died. He had, since the power of speech had been restored
to him, more than once asserted that the cause of the royalists was desperate, and had, by
doing so, greatly added to the difficulties by which Henri was now surrounded. He did not,
however, despair; nothing could make him despondent, or rob him of that elastic courage which,
in spite of all the sufferings he had endured, gave him a strange feeling of delight in the
war which he was waging.

An immense concourse of people gathered round the waggon, as de Lescure was lifted from it
and carried up to the bedroom, which had been prepared for him; and they showed their grief
at his sufferings, and their admiration of his character as a soldier, by tears and prayers
for his recovery. The extreme popularity of M. de Lescure through the whole war, and the love
which was felt for him by all the peasants concerned in it, proved their just appreciation
of real merit; for he had not those qualities which most tend to ingratiate an officer with
his men. He could not unbend among them, and talk to them familiarly of their prowess, and
of the good cause, as Henri did. He had the manners of an austere, sombre man; and though always
most anxious for the security and good treatment of the prisoners, had more than once severely
punished men among his own followers for some breach of discipline. He had, on one occasion,
threatened to leave the army entirely if he was not obeyed with the same exactness, as though
he actually bore the King's commission; and the general feeling that he would most certainly
keep his word, and that the army could not succeed without him, had greatly tended to repress
any inclination towards mutiny.

"God bless him, and preserve him, and restore him to us all!" said a woman who had pushed her
way through the crowd, so as to catch a glance at his pale wasted face, one side of which was
swathed in bandages, which greatly added to the ghastliness of his appearance. "We have lost
our husbands, and our sons, and our sweethearts; but what matters, we do not begrudge them
to our King. The life of Monseigneur is more precious than them all. La Vendee cannot afford
to lose her great General."

De Lescure heard and understood, but could not acknowledge, the sympathy of the people; but
Henri, as he tenderly raised his cousin's head, and bore him in his arms from the waggon, spoke
a word or two to the crowd which satisfied them; and Arthur Mondyon remained among them a while
to tell them how bravely their countrymen had fought at Cholet, against numbers more than double
their own, before they would consent to own themselves beaten.

There was an immense deal for Henri Larochejaquelin to do. In the first place he had to collect
together the fragments of the disbanded army; to separate the men who were armed from those
who had lost their arms, and to divide the comparatively speaking small number of the former,
into such bands or regiments as would make them serviceable in case of need.

De Lescure was unable to give him any actual assistance in his work; but his thoughtful brain,
reflecting on all the difficulties of Henri's situation, conceived how much they would be increased
by the want of any absolute title to authority; he therefore determined, ill as he was, to
invest him with the command-in-chief of the shattered army.

Early on the morning after their arrival he begged that all such men as had acted as chief
officers among the Vendeans, and who were now in St. Florent, would form themselves into a
council in his room, and that it might be proclaimed to the army that they were about to nominate
a General-in-Chief. The council was not so numerously attended as that which on a former occasion
was held at Saumur. As Peter Berrier had said, most of those who then sat around that council
table were now dead, or were, at any rate, hors-de-combat. Only four of the number were now
present. De Lescure was lying on his bed, and was a spectacle dreadful to look upon. The hair
had been all cut from his head. His face was not only pale, but livid. The greater portion
of it had been enveloped in bandages, which he had partly removed with his own hand, that his
mouth might be free, so that he  could use his weak voice to address his comrades, perhaps
for the last time. He uttered neither complaint or groan, but the compressed lips, careworn
cheeks, and sunken eyes, gave too certain signs of the agony which he suffered. Henri was there,
but he knew the proposal which his cousin was about to make, and he felt, not only that he
was unequal to the heavy task which was about to be put on his shoulders, but also that there
were still some among their number who were superior to him in skill, rank, and age, and who
were to be excluded from the dangerous dignity by the partial admiration which was felt for
himself He sat apart in a corner of the room, with his face buried in his handkerchief; his
manly heart was overcome; and while de Lescure named him as the only person possessed of sufficient
nerve and authority to give the Vendeans a chance of an escape from utter ruin, he was shedding
tears like a child.

D'Autachamps and the Prince de Talmont were there also; men, who throughout the war had lent
every energy to its furtherance. At another time, and under other circumstances, they might
have expressed indignation at being called on to serve under a man so much their junior; but
de Lescure's position checked, not only the expression of any such feeling, but the feeling
itself. They could not differ from a man who had lost so much in the cause, and vas now sealing
his devotion with his life. There were five or six others in the room; officers who were now
well known in the army, whose courage history has not forgotten to record, but whose names
are unnecessary to our tale.

"Gentlemen," said de Lescure to them, as soon as he saw them seated round his bed, and had
contrived to get himself so propped up with pillows as to be able to address them, "you all
know why I have wished to see you here; you all know the paramount importance of that duty
which requires us to provide, as far as may be possible, for the security of the unfortunate
peasants who have followed us with such courage, who have shown so much generous loyalty, so
much true patriotism. Our first step must be to name some one whom we can all obey. We all
know that the army cannot act in unison without one absolute Commander. He who was lately our
Commander has fallen in the performance of his duty. Our dear friend Bonchamps is no more.
Had I escaped from that awful battle unwounded, it is not improbable that you might have chosen
me to undertake the now unenviable duty of guiding a broken army. You will not accuse a dying
man of vanity in saying so; but, gentlemen, you all see that such a chance is now impossible.
My wound is mortal. A few days, perhaps a few hours, and I shall be removed from this anxious,
painful, all but hopeless conflict, in which you, my friends, must still engage; in which some
of you will probably fall. I cannot suffer with you future reverses, or lead you to future
triumphs; but, if you will allow me, I will use my last breath in naming to you one, whom,
I believe, every peasant in La Vendee, and every gentleman engaged in the cause, will follow,
if it be necessary, to death. Henri Larochejaquelin is the only man whom all the peasants,
all the soldiers, all the officers, know intimately; and the last duty I can perform in the
service of my King is to implore you to put him at the head of your troops. He is young, and
you will assist his youth with your counsel. He is diffident of himself, and you will encourage
him with your assurance and obedience; but he is brave, he is beloved, he is trusted; and above
all, he possesses that innate aptitude for war, that power of infusing courage into the timid
and lending strength to the weak, which is the gift of God alone, and without which no General
can command an army."

Henri had promised his cousin that he would neither interrupt him, or raise any objection to
the proposition about to be made. He kept his word as long as de Lescure was speaking, but
when he had finished he could not restrain himself from expressing his own sense of his unfitness
for the duties they were calling on him to perform. He came forward, and leaning against the
head of the wounded man's bed, put his hand upon his shoulder, and speaking almost in a whisper,
like a young girl pleading for delay before her lover, he said, "Charles, you forget, I am
but one-and-twenty."

No one, however, seconded his objection. No other voice was raised to counteract the wishes
of the man who had suffered so much in the cause, and who, had he been spared, would have been
at once chosen to guide their future movements.

"With this exception," said the Prince de Talmont; "your case we know is doubtful, but should
you recover, should you again be able to come among us before the war be over, Larochejaquelin
shall then give place to you."

"There is little chance of that, Prince," said de Lescure, smiling sadly; "but should it occur,
there will be no quarrel between me and Henri. I will serve with him as his aide-de-camp."

Henri Larochejaquelin now found himself General-in-Chief of the Vendean army. As he himself
had said, he was but one-and-twenty, and yet never was greater energy, firmness, and moral
courage required from a General, than was required from him at this moment. Eighty thousand
people were on that day told to look to him as the man who was to save them from famine and
from the enemy's sword, to protect their lives and the lives of all whom they loved, and eventually
to turn their present utter misery and despair into victory and triumph.

Eighty thousand people were there collected in and around St. Florent, men, women, and children;
the old and infirm, the maimed and sick, the mutilated and the dying. Poor wretches who had
gotten themselves dragged thither from the hospitals, in which they feared to remain, were
lying in every ditch, and under every wall, filling the air with their groans. Everything was
in confusion; no staff existed competent to arrange their affairs, and to husband the poor
means at their disposal. Food was wasted by some, while hundreds were starving. Some houses
in the town were nearly empty, while others were crowded almost to suffocation. There was very
much to be done, yet every one was idle.

The great work to be accomplished was to transport the Vendean multitude over to the other
side of the Loire. It had been at first feared by some that the men of Brittany would be unwilling
to receive the beaten royalist army, flying from the bloody vengeance of the republicans, but
their neighbours did not prove so unhospitable. A thousand welcomes were sent over to them,
and many a happy messenger of good tidings came, assuring Henri that the people of Poitou should
find arms, food, clothing, and shelter on the other side of the water.

Henri sat himself to work in earnest. His first difficulty was to get vessels or rafts sufficient
to carry the people over. All he could obtain was seven or eight little boats, each capable
of holding about six persons, besides the two men who rowed. Timber there was none of size
sufficient to make a raft; and though he sent messengers for leagues, both up and down the
river, he could not get a barge. He put the small boats to work, but the passage of the river
was so tedious that it seemed to him that it would be impossible for him to take over all those
who crowded on the banks. The river is broad at St. Florent, and between the marshes which
lie on the southern side and the northern bank there is a long island. Between St. Florent
and the island the water is broad and the stream slow, but between the island and the other
shore the narrow river runs rapidly. Henri at first contented himself with sending the women
and children, together with the sick and aged, into the island, thinking that there they would
be at any rate for a time safe from the blues, and that some effort might probably be made
from the other shore to convey them across the narrow passage. Gradually, however, the island
became full, and he was obliged to send his boats round to take the people from thence to the
main land.

All day the work continued, and when the dark night came on, the boats did not for a moment
cease to ply. Immediately after sunset, the rain began to fall in torrents, and as the anxious
wretches did not like to leave the close vicinity of the river, which they had spent the whole
day in struggling to attain, thousands of them remained there wet and shivering until the morning.
Mothers during the darkness were parted from their children, and wives from their husbands.
Those who, worn out with fatigue and weakness, were forced to lie down upon the ground, were
trodden upon by others, who pressed on, to reach the river. Some were pushed into the water
and screamed aloud that they were about to drown, and when the dawn of the morning came, misery,
wretchedness, and fear were to be seen on every face.

During the whole day and night, Henri was either on the bank, or passing between it and the
town. He had, early in the day, stripped himself of his coat, and when the evening came, he
could not find it. Wet through, in his shirt sleeves, this young generalissimo passed the first
night of his command, guarding the entrance into his little vessels; prohibiting more than
eight from embarking at a time; striving to his uttermost that none but the weak and aged should
be taken over; solacing the sufferings of those near him; bidding the wretched not to despair,
and pointing to the opposite shore as the land of hope, where they would soon again find plenty,
comfort, and triumph.

He was still at the same duty on the following morning, reckoning up, with something like despair,
the small number of those who had as yet passed over, and the multitude who were yet to pass,
when the young Chevalier came down to him with the news that Madame de Lescure, and her sister-in-law
were in St. Florent. Even the work, on which he was so intent, could not keep him from those
respecting whom he was so anxious, and he hurried into town for an hour or two, leaving the
Chevalier in his place.

CHAPTER VI

THE PASSAGE OF THE LOIRE.

M. de Lescure had been two days in St. Florent, when his wife and sister arrived there on horseback,
attended by Chapeau. None of the party had ever been in the town before, but it was not long
before they were recognized, and the two ladies soon found themselves standing in the inn yard.
Madame de Lescure had as yet asked no question about her husband; indeed she had not had opportunity
to do so, for she had been hurried through a dense throng of people, none of whom she knew,
and when she was lifted from her horse by a strange hand, she had no idea that the window immediately
above her head looked from the room in which her husband lay. Chapeau, however, with considerate
tact, did not lose a moment in finding the aubergiste, and learning from him enough to enable
him to whisper a word of comfort to her.

"He is here, Madame," said he, standing close behind her, "in the room above there. He is somewhat
better than he has been, and as strong in his mind as ever. He has been most anxious for your
arrival," and then he led the way into the hotel, pushing aside the crowd to the right and
to the left; and within five minutes from the time of their entering the town, the two ladies
found themselves on the stairs immediately outside the chamber in which was lying the object
of all their present anxiety.

For the last four days and four nights, it had been the first and only desire of Madame de
Lescure to be with her husband; and now that she was so near him she dreaded to open the door.
"Who is with him?" said she, speaking in a whisper, and trembling from head to foot, so that
she could hardly stand.

"The little Chevalier is with him always," said the aubergiste, who had followed them up the
stairs: "he never leaves him, now that M. Henri is obliged to be away."

"Hadn't I better go in, perhaps," said Chapeau, "and send the Chevalier out? I can tell M.
de Lescure that Madame is here; it might be too much for Monsieur to see her all at once."

Without waiting for an answer, Chapeau knocked at the door and went in, while the two ladies
sat down on the nearest step, dreading almost to breathe in their intense anxiety; in a few
seconds Arthur Mondyon came out, and taking a hand of each of his two friends, pressed them
to his lips.

"He knows you are here," said he to Madame de Lescure, "and you are to go into him alone. Marie
and I wifi go down stairs until he sends for us. Be tranquil as you can, while you are with
him; you will find him as calm as ever."

She rose, and entered the room on tiptoe, as Chapeau left it; her face was as pale as marble,
and her heart beat so violently that she felt that she would hardly be able to reach the chair
at the bed-side. De Lescure was lying on a decent but very humble bed, at the farthest end
of a large room, in which there were three or four other bedsteads, and an enormous number
of common deal chairs and tables piled one a-top of another. He was propped up in the bed on
pillows, and as he turned his eyes towards the door, the full light of the sun shone upon his
face, and gave an especial ghastliness to its pallor.

Madame de Lescure tried to control herself; but in such moments the feelings of the heart overcome
the reason, and the motions of the body are governed by passion alone. In an instant her face
was on his bosom, and her arms were locked closely round his body.

"Victorine--my own Victorine," said he, "my greatest grief is over now. I feared that we were
not to meet again, and that thought alone was almost too much for my courage."

She was for a time unable to articulate a word. He felt her warm tears as she convulsively
pressed her cheek against his breast; he felt the violent throbs of her loving heart, and allowed
her a few minutes before he asked her to speak to him. She had thrown off the hat which she
had worn before entering the room, and he now gently smoothed her ruffled hair with his hand,
and collected together the loose tresses which had escaped down her neck.

"Look up, love," he said; "I haven't seen your face yet, or heard your voice. Come, Victorine,
you were not used to be so weak. We must all string our nerves now, dearest: we must all be
brave now. We used to praise you for your courage; now is the time for you to show it."

"Oh, Charles! oh, my poor stricken love!" and then she raised her face and gazed into his,
till the tears made her eyes so dim that she could hardly see him. "I knew it would come at
last," she said; "I knew this fearful blow would come at last. Oh, that we had gone when others
went! at any rate I should not have lived to see you thus."

"Do no say that, Victorine; do not speak so--do not allow yourself to think so--or you will
rob both of us of our dearest comfort. No, my love; were it to do again, I again would stand
by the throne, and you again would counsel me to do so. A doubt on that point would be calamity,
indeed; but, thank God, there is no doubt."

"But the misery to see you thus--torn, and mangled, and tortured. And for what? What good have
we done with our hot patriotism? Is the King nearer his throne? Are the murders of the Republic
less frequent?"

"I fear you are selfish now, love. Did we not know, when we first took up our arms, that many
happy wives would be widowed--that numberless children would be made fatherless--that hundreds
of mothers would have to weep for their sons. We must not ourselves complain of that fate,
to which we have knowingly, and thoughtfully, consigned so many others."

Madame de. Lescure had no answer to make to her husband's remonstrance. She sat herself upon
the bed, so that she could support his head upon her bosom; and pressing her lips to his clammy
brow, she said in a low voice: "God's will be done, Charles: with all my heart I pity those
who have suffered as I now suffer."

She remained sitting there in silence for a considerable time; weeping, indeed, but stifling
her sobs, that the sound of her grief might not agitate him, while he enjoyed the inexpressible
comfort of having her close to him. He closed his eyes as he leant against the sweet support
which she afforded him, but not in sleep; he was thinking over all it might be most necessary
for him to say to her, before the power of speech had left him, and taking counsel with himself
as to the advice which he would give her.

"Victorine," he said, and then paused a moment for a reply, but, as she did not answer him,
he went on. "Victorine, I want you to be all yourself now, while I speak to you. Can you listen
to me calmly, love, while I speak to you seriously?"

She said that she would, but the tone in which she said it, hardly gave confirmation to her
promise.

"I hardly know what account you have yet heard of that unfortunate battle."

"Oh! I have heard that it was most unfortunate: unfortunate to all, but most unfortunate to us."

"It was unfortunate. I hope those who spoke to you of it, deceived you with no false hopes,
for that would have been mere cruelty. Give me your hand, my love; I hope they told you the
truth. You know, dearest, do you not, that--that--that my wound is mortal?"

She strove hard to control her feelings. She bit her under lip between her teeth; she pressed
her feet against the bed, and grasped the loose clothes with the hand which was disengaged.
The virtue on which her husband most prided himself was calmness and self-possession in affliction.
She knew that he now expected that virtue from her, and that nothing would so grieve him as
to see her render herself weakly up to her sorrow, and she strove hard to control it; but all
her exertion did not enable her to answer him. It seemed almost miraculous to herself that
she could sit there, and retain her consciousness, and hear him utter such words. Had she attempted
to speak, the effort would have overcome her.

"For heaven's sake, Victorine, let nothing, let nobody deceive you; know the worst, and look
to Christ for power to bear it, and you will find the burden not too heavy to be borne. You
and I, love, must part in this world. We have passed our lives together without one shadow
to darken the joy of our union: we have been greatly blessed beyond others. Can we complain
because our happiness on earth is not eternal? Is it not a great comfort that we can thus speak
together before we part; that I have been allowed to live to see your dear face, to feel your
breath on my cheek, and to hear your voice? to tell you, with the assurance which the approach
of death gives me, that these sorrows are but for a time, and that our future joys shall be
everlasting? And I must thank you, Victorine, for your tender care, your constant love. You
have made me happy here; you have helped to fit me for happiness hereafter. It is owing to
you that even this hour has but little bitterness for me. Are we not happy, dearest; are we
not happy even now in each other's love?"

Madame de Lescure had, while her husband was speaking, sunk upon her knees beside his bed,
and was now bathing his hand with her tears.

"I cannot blame you for your tears," he said, "for human nature must have her way; but my Victorine
will remember that she must not give way to her sorrow, as other women may do. Rise, dearest,
and let me see your face. I feel that I have strength now to tell you all that I have to say.
I may probably never have that strength again."

She rose at his bidding, and sat upon the bed where he could look full upon her face; and then
he began to pour out to her all the wishes of his heart, all the thoughts which had run through
his brain since consciousness returned to him after his wound. After a little while she conquered
her emotion, and listened to him, and answered him with attention. He first spoke of their
daughter, who was now in safety, with relatives who had fled to England, and then of herself,
and the probable result of the Vendean war. He told her that he would not say a word to discourage
Henri: that had his life been spared, he should have considered it his own most paramount and
sacred duty to further the war with every energy which he possessed; but that he did not expect
that it would ever terminate favourably to their hopes. "The King will reign again," he said,
"in France; I do not doubt it for a moment; but years upon years of bloodshed will have to
be borne; the blood of France will be drained from every province, aye, from every parish,
before the guilt which she has committed can be atoned for--before she can have expiated the
murder of her King." He desired her to continue with Henri till an opportunity should occur
for her to cross over into England, but to let no such opportunity pass. He said that if Henri
could maintain his ground for a while in Brittany--if the people would support him, and if
English succour should arrive--it was still probable that they might be able to come to such
terms with the republicans as would enable them to live after their own fashion, in their own
country; to keep their own priests among them, and to maintain their exemption from service
in the republican armies. "But should this not be so," he said, "should all the valour of the
Vendeans not be able to secure even thus much, then remember that God will temper the wind
to the shorn lamb. With a people as with an individual, he will not make the burden too heavy
for the back which has to bear it."

He spoke also of Marie, and declared his wish that she should not delay her marriage with Henri.
He even said, that should his life be so far prolonged, as to enable him to be carried over
into Brittany, and should the army there find a moment's rest, he would wish to see their hands
joined together at his bed-side.

"My poor dear Marie!" said Madame de Lescure, almost unconsciously. She was thinking of her
sister's future fate; that she also might have soon to bewail a husband, torn from her by these
savage wars. De Lescure understood what was passing through her mind, and said:

"I know, love, that there are reasons why they had better remain as they now are. Why they
should not indissolubly bind themselves to each other at such a time as this; but we must choose
the least of evils. You will both now be a burden--no, I will not say a burden, but a charge--upon
Henri; and he has a right to expect that a girl, who will depend for everything on him, shall
not shrink from the danger of marrying him. She has been happy to accept his love, and when
she may be a comfort to him, she should not hesitate to give him her hand. Besides, dearest,
think what a comfort it will be to me to know that they are married before I die."

There was one other subject on which he had made up his mind to speak, but on which even he,
calm and collected as he was, found it difficult to express himself; he had, however, determined
that it was his duty to do so, and though the words almost refused to come at his bidding,
still he went through his task.

"You will be desolate for a time, Victorine, when I shall have left you," said he.

She answered him only by a look, but that look was so full of misery--of misery, blended with
inexpressible love--that no one seeing her, could have doubted that she would indeed be desolate
when he was gone.

"We have loved each other too well to part easily," he continued, "and, for a time, the world
will all be a weary blank to you. May God, who knows how to pour a balm into every wound, which
in his mercy He inflicts, grant that that time may not be long! Listen to me patiently, love.
It is a strong sense of duty which makes me pain you; my memory will always be dear to you;
but do not let a vain, a foolish, a wicked regret counteract the purpose for which God has
placed you here. You are very young, dearest, you have, probably, yet many years to live; and
it would multiply my grief at leaving you tenfold, if I thought that your hopes of happiness
in this world were to be buried in the grave with me. No, love, bear with me," he said, for
she tried to stop him. "The pain which I give you now, may prevent much grief to you hereafter.
Remember, Victorine, that should these evil days pass by--should you ever again be restored
to peace and tranquil life, my earnest, my last, my solemn prayer to you is, that my memory
may not prevent your future marriage."

She was still kneeling by his side, and with her face upturned and her hands clasped together,
she now implored him to stop. She uttered no dissent, she made no protestations; but she beseeched
him, by their long and tender love, by all the common ties which bound them together, to cease
to speak on a subject which was so agonising.

"I have done, love," he said; "and I know that you will not think lightly of a prayer which
I have made to you in so serious a manner."

De Lescure had expressed the same wish to his wife on former occasions, which, however, had,
of course, been less solemn; and then his wife had answered him with a full, but not grieving
heart. "Had our lot," he once said, "been cast in an Indian village, the prejudices of the
country would have required you to submit to a horrid, torturing death upon my tomb. The prejudices
of Christian lands, which attribute blame to the wife who does not yield herself a living sacrifice
to a life of desolation from a false regard to her husband's memory, are, if not so horrid,
every whit as unreasonable; such a sentiment is an attempt to counteract God's beneficence,
who cures the wounds which he inflicts."

Henri's first care, after having seen Marie and Madame de Lescure, was to provide for their
transit, and that of his wounded friend, to the other side of the water; for he felt that if
the blues came upon St. Florent before that was done, nothing could prevent the three from
being made prisoners. No tidings had yet been received of the advance of the republicans from
Cholet towards St. Florent, and the precautions which Henri had taken were such as to ensure
him some few hours' notice of their approach. He knew, however, that those hours would be hours
of boundless confusion; that the whole crowd of unfortunate wretches who might then still be
on the southern side of the river, would crowd into the small boats, hurrying themselves and
each other to destruction; that discipline would be at an end, and that all his authority would
probably be insufficient to secure a passage for his party. About three o'clock he sent word
to Arthur to have the strongest of the boats kept in readiness a little lower down the river
than the usual point of embarkation; so that they might, if possible, escape being carried
through the throng. He then procured a waggon into which de Lescure was lifted on his bed;
his wife sat behind him, supporting his head on her lap, and Henri and his sister walked beside
the vehicle down to the water's edge.

The little Chevalier was there with the boat, and he had with him two men, neither of whom
were young, and who had been at work the whole day ferrying over the Vendeans to the island.
Arthur's figure was hardly that of an aide-de-camp. His head was bare and his face begrimed
with mud. He was stripped to his shirt sleeves, and they were tucked up nearly to his shoulders.
He still had round his waist the red scarf, of which he was so proud; but it was so soiled
and dragged, as hardly to be recognized as the badge of the honourable corps to which he belonged,
for he had, constantly since the morning, been up to his breast in the water, dragging women
and children out of the river, heaving the boats ashore, or helping to push them off through
the mud and rushes.

It was settled on the bank that Arthur should go over with them into Brittany, as Henri felt
that he could not conscientiously leave the St. Florent side of the river, while so many thousands
were looking to him for directions; and, consequently, as soon as de Lescure and the two ladies
had, with much labour and delay, been placed in the boat, he swung himself out of the water
into the bow, and the frail bark with its precious load was pushed off into the stream.

The point from which it started was somewhat lower down the stream than that from which the
boats had been hitherto put off, and, consequently, as they got into the middle of the river,
they found themselves carried down towards the lower part of the island, on which they had
intended to land. Had the men who were rowing worked vigorously, this would not have occurred
to any great extent; but they pulled slowly and feebly, and every foot which the boat made
across, it descended as much down the river. Arthur had been desired to land de Lescure on
the island, and another boat had been sent round to be ready to take him at once from thence
to the other shore; but when he found that they were unintentionally so near the lower end
of the island, it occurred to him that it would save them all much pain and trouble, if he
were to run round it, and land them at once on the opposite shore; they would in this way have
to make a considerably longer journey, but then de Lescure would be spared the pain of so many
different movements.

Madame de Lescure immediately jumped at the proposal. "For heaven's sake, Arthur, do so, if
it be possible," said she; "it will be the greatest relief. I do not think we should ever get
across to the other boat, if we once leave this."

Arthur was behind the two men at the oars, who had listened to what had been said, without
making any observation, or attempting to alter the destination of the boat; rudder there was
none, and the steering, therefore, depended entirely on the rowers.

"Do you hear?" said Arthur, stretching forward and laying his hand on the shoulder of the man
who was in front. "Never mind the island at all; go a little more down the stream, and then
we can cross over at once without landing at all. Do you hear me, friend?" added he, speaking
rather hastily, for the boatman took no apparent notice of his instructions.

"We hear you, Monsieur," said the man, "but it is impossible; we could not do it."

"Ah, nonsense!" answered the Chevalier: "not do it--I say you must do it. I wonder you should
hesitate for a moment, when you know how M. de Lescure is suffering, and how much those ladies
have to go through. Turn the boat down the stream at once, I tell you."

"It is quite impossible," said the old man doggedly, and still holding on to his course; "we
should only upset the boat and drown you all. We could never push her through the current on
the other side, could we Jean?"

"Quite impossible," said the other. "We should only be carried down into the rushes, or else
be upset in the stream."

"Nonsense!" said Arthur. "What's to upset you? At any rate you shall try." And he laid his
hand on the oar of the man who was nearest to him, but this, instead of having the effect which
he desired, turned the nose of the boat the other way.

"For God's sake, my dear friends, do this favour for us if you can!" said Madame de Lescure.
"It may save the life of my husband, and indeed we will reward you richly for your labour.
Stop, Arthur, don't use violence; I am sure they will do this kindness for us, if they are able."

"If they won't do it for kindness, they shall do it because they cannot help it," said Arthur,
when he saw that the men still showed no disposition to go down the stream; and as he spoke
he pulled his pistol out of his belt, and prepared to cock it. The pistol, in truth, was perfectly
harmless, for it had been over and over again immersed in the water, and the powder was saturated
with wet; but this did not occur to the boatmen, nor, very possibly, to Arthur either; and
when he, stepping across the thwart, on which the hinder man was sitting, held the pistol close
to the ear of the other, threatening that if he did not at once do as he was bid, he would
blow out his brains and take his place on the seat, the poor old man dropped his oar from his
hand into the water, and falling on his knees on the bottom of the boat, implored for mercy.

"Spare me, Monsieur! oh, spare me!" said he. "Ladies, pray speak for me: I am not used to this
work--indeed I am not--and I and my comrade are nearly dead with fatigue."

Arthur put the pistol back into his belt when the poor man begged for mercy, and pulling the
fallen oar out of the water, declared that he would himself row round the island, and that
the two old men might take the other oar in turns. They agreed to this, and then he who had
been so frightened, and who was plainly the master of the two, told his tale to them, as he
filled Arthur's place in the bow of the boat.

"When they had heard," he said, "what his former occupation had been, they would not wonder
that the hard work at which they found him was almost too much for him. He was," he said, "a
priest, and had been employed above twenty years as Cure in a small parish on the river side,
between St. Florent and Chaudron. The other man, who was working with him, had been his sexton.
He had, like other Cures, been turned out of his little house by the Republic, but had returned
to his parish when he heard that the success of the Vendean arms seemed to promise tranquillity
to the old inhabitants of the country. He had, however, soon been again disturbed. The rumour
of Lechelle's army had driven him from his home, and he had fled with many others to St. Florent.
He had been advised that those who were taken in a priest's garb, would be more subject even
than others to the wrath of the republicans, and he had therefore disguised himself; and as
from having lived so long near the river he had become somewhat used to the management of boats,
he had, for charity's sake, leant his hand to the poor Vendeans, willing," as he said, "to
use what little skill and strength he had for those who lost their all in fighting for him,
his country, and his religion. But now," he added, "he found himself almost knocked up; and
although, when he had been chosen to take over Monsieur and the two ladies, he had not had
the heart to decline, still he had found that his strength would fail him. He knew that he
and his companion could not, unaided, reach the opposite shore; but if the young gentleman
would assist, they would still do their best, and perhaps they might cross over in safety."

This piteous tale soon turned their anger into admiration and friendship. They thanked the
kind old man for all that he had done for them, and Arthur once, and over again, turned round
to beg his pardon for the violence he had offered him.

"Indeed, then, I picked you out for this job," said he, "because you always worked so hard,
and seemed so skilful and anxious, and because I observed that your boat always made the passage
quicker than the others. You must not be angry when I tell you that I thought you had been
a boatman all your life."

He said he was not angry at all, but flattered; indeed he had spent much of his leisure time
in rowing, and was heartily glad that his little skill was now useful to his friends. He soon
offered to take his place again at the oar, and when neither his old servant or Arthur would
allow him to do so, he declared that he was quite himself again, and that those few minutes'
rest had wonderfully recruited him. The ladies both thanked him kindly, but begged him to remain
a while where he was, and Marie, from time to time, asked him questions about the past, and
tried to hold out hopes to him for the future. The tears came into his eyes, and rolled down
his cheeks, and after a while he took the sexton's oar, literally to relieve himself from having
to speak.

"It is not he work alone that has upset me," said he after a while, "but the poor people seem
so callous. We have worked hard these two days, as the young gentleman knows, and all for charity,
and yet till this moment we have not had a kind word. They urge us on to the work, and when
we land them at the shore, they do not even thank us as they go away; then we turn back with
a heavy heart for another load."

They reached the shore of Brittany in safety, and when de Lescure was placed in the carriage
which had been provided for him, he desired that the poor priest might be begged to accompany
them on their journey. He declined, however, saying that he had found a sphere in which he
could be useful, and that he would stick to the work till it was all done, or till his strength
failed him. De Lescure pressed his hand, and begged his blessing, and told him that if there
were many such as him in the country, La Vendee might still carry her head high, in spite of
all that the Republic could do against her. This praise made the old man's heart light once
again, and he returned to his bat, and passed. back to St. Florent with his comrade and Arthur,
ready to recommence his labours. In the meantime de Lescure and his wife and sister were warmly
welcomed on the Breton side of the river, and before night he, for the first time since the
battle of Cholet, found himself in comparative security and peace.

When Arthur got back he found that another plan had been started for carrying over the Vendeans,
which, if it did not drown them altogether, would be certainly much more expeditious than that
of the boats. It had originated with Chapeau, under whose guidance the operations were about
to commence.

He had come down to the water-side with his master, and on seeing the way in which the men
were working, had calculated that it would yet take above a week to carry over all who remained,
and as it was probable that they would be attacked before twenty-four hours were over, he had
observed that they might as well give themselves up for lost if they could devise no other
scheme of passing over.

"We will do the best we can," said Henri. "If we can get over the women, and children, and
wounded, the rest of us can fight our way to the bridge of Ancenis."

"Why not make a raft?" said Chapeau.

"Make one if you can," said Henri, "but it will only go down the stream. Besides, you have
neither timber nor iron ready to do it."

Chapeau, however, determined to try, and he employed the men from Durbelliere, who knew him,
and would work for him, to get together every piece of timber they could collect. They brought
down to the bank of the river the green trunks of small trees, the bodies of old waggons, the
small beams which they were able to pull down out of the deserted cottages near the river-side,
pieces of bedsteads, and broken fragments of barn doors. All these Chapeau, with endless care,
joined together by numberless bits of ropes, and at last succeeded in getting afloat a raft
on which some forty or fifty men might stand, but which seemed to be anything but a safe or
commodious means of transit. In the first place, though it supported the men on it, it did
not bear them high and dry above the water, which came over the ankles of most of them. Then
there was no possible means of steering the unwieldy bark; and there could be no doubt that
if the Argonauts did succeed in getting their vessels out into the river, it would immediately
descend the stream, and that it, and those upon it, would either be upset altogether, or taken
to whichever bank and whatever part of it, the river in its caprice might please.

In this dilemma a brilliant idea occurred to Chapeau. He still had plenty of rope in his possession,
and having fastened one end of a long coil with weights and blocks on the riverside, he passed
over with the other end into the island, and fastened it there. The rope, therefore, traversed
the river, and by holding on to this, and passing it slowly through their hands, while they
strained against the raft with their feet, the enterprising crew who had first embarked reached
the island in safety. Ten of the number had to return with the raft, but still from thirty
to forty had been taken over, and that without any great delay.

After this first success the boats were sent round to work between the island and the other
shore, and the raft was kept passing to and fro over the river the whole night. Nobody got
over with dry feet, but still no one was drowned, and upon the whole Chapeau was considered
to be entitled to the thanks of the whole army for the success of his invention. He had certainly
accelerated their passage fivefold.

CHAPTER VII

CATHELINEAU'S MOTHER

The old motto, attributing disrespect to every prophet in his own country, had not been proved
true with reference to Cathelineau in St. Florent. His deeds, during the short period of his
triumph, had been celebrated there with general admiration, and since his death, his memory
had been almost adored. The people of the town had had no public means of showing their appreciation
of his valour; they had not as yet had time to erect monuments to his honour, or to establish
other chronicles of his virtues, than those which were written in the hearts of his townsmen.
He had left an aged mother behind him, who had long been dependent on his exertions for support,
and they had endeavoured to express their feeling of his services, by offering to place her
beyond the reach of poverty; but, unaccountably enough, she was the only person in St. Florent,
who was dissatisfied with her son's career, and angry with the town which had induced him to
adopt it.

She still lived in a small cottage near the extremity of St. Florent, which had been the residence
of Cathelineau as long as he supported himself by his humble calling. It was now wrecked and
shattered, and showed those certain signs of ruin which quickly fall on the dwellings of the
aged poor, who have no young relatives round them. Here she would sit and spin, seldom now
interrupted by any; though at first her neighbours used to flock thither to celebrate the praises
of her son. She had loved her son, as warmly as other mothers love their children; but she
had loved him as a hard-working labourer, earning for herself and for him their daily pittance;
not as a mighty General, courted and complimented by the rich and great of the land. She had
begged him not to go out into the town on the morning when he had been so instrumental in saving
his townsmen from the ignominy of being pressed into the service of the Republic; and when
he returned in the evening, crowned with laurels, she had not congratulated him. She had uttered
nothing but evil bodings to him on the day when he first went to Durbelliere; and when he returned
from Saumur, chief General of all the forces of then victorious La Vendee, she had refused
to participate in the glories which awaited him in his native town. On his departure to Nantes
she had prophesied to him his death, and when the tidings of his fall were first brought to
her, she merely said that she had expected it. The whole town mourned openly for Cathelineau,
except his mother. She wept for him in silence and alone; but she wept for the honest, sturdy,
hard--working labourer whom she had reared beneath her roof, and who had been beguiled away
by vain people, to vain pursuits, which had ended in his death; while others bewailed the fall
of a great captain, who had conferred honour on their town, and who, had he been spared, might
have heaped glory on his country. Since that time, she had not ceased to rail on those who
had seduced her son into celebrity and danger; and, after a while, had been left to rail alone.

When nearly all the inhabitants of the town flocked down to the river-side, anxious to escape
from the wrath of the republicans, she resolutely refused to move, declaring that if it were
God's will that she should perish under the ashes of her little cottage, she would do so, and
that nothing should induce her, in her extreme old age, to leave the spot on which she had
been born, and had always lived. During the whole confusion, attending the passage of the river,
she sat there undisturbed; and though she saw all her poor neighbours leave their humble dwellings,
and all their little property, to look for safety in Brittany, she did not move.

On the day after that on which de Lescure had passed over, she was sitting alone in her cabin,
and the unceasing whirl of her spinning-wheel proved that the distractions of the time had
not made her idle. By this time all those who had lived immediately near her, were gone. it
is not to be supposed that absolutely every inhabitant of the town left his home; there were
some who had taken no prominent part in the war, and who could not believe that the republicans
would destroy those whom they found quietly living in their own houses; but all the poorer
part of the population were gone, and not a living soul but herself remained in the row of
cabins, of which Cathelineau's mother occupied one.

Her wheel was turning fast round, obedient to the quick motion of her foot, and her two hands
were employed in preparing the flax before it was caught by the wheel; but her mind was far
away from her ordinary pursuit. She had been thinking how true were the prophetic warnings
with which she had implored her son to submit to the republicans, and how surely she had foreseen
the desolation which his resistance had brought on all around her. And yet there was more of
affection than bitterness in her thoughts of her son. She acknowledged to herself his high
qualities; she knew well how good, how noble, how generous, had been his disposition. She was,
even in her own way, proud of his fame; but she hated, with an unmixed hatred, those whom she
thought had urged him on to his ruin--those friends of noble blood, who would have spurned
the postillion from their doors had he presumed to enter them in former days; but who had thrust
him into the van of danger in the hour of need, and had persuaded him, fond and foolish as
he had been, to use his courage, his energy, and his genius, in fighting for them a battle,
in which he should have had no personal interest.

As she sat there spinning, and thinking thus bitterly of the causes of all her woe, a figure
darkened the door of her cottage, and looking up she saw a young lady dressed in black. She
was tall, and of a noble mien; her face was very beautiful, but pale and sad, as were the faces
of most in these sad times. Her dress was simple, and she was unattended; but yet there was
that about her, which assured the old woman that she was not of simple blood, and which prepared
her to look upon her as an enemy.

It was Agatha Larochejaquelin. She and her father had, by slow stages, reached St. Florent
in safety; and, after having seen him at rest, and spoken a word to her brother, her first
care had been to inquire after the mother of Cathelineau. She had been told of her solitary
state, and of her stubborn resolution to remain at St. Florent, and she determined to offer
her any aid in her power, as a duty due to the memory of him, with whom she had been, for a
short time, so strangely connected.

The old woman rose mechanically, and made a slight obeisance as she saw Agatha's commanding
figure, and then reseating herself, hastily recommenced her work, as though she had forgotten
herself, in having been thus far courteous to her guest.

"I have come to express my esteem and respect to the mother of Cathelineau," said Agatha, as
soon as she found herself inside the cottage. "I knew and valued your son, and I shall be glad
to know his mother. Was not the brave Cathelineau your son, my friend?" she added, seeing that
the old woman stared at her, as though she did not as yet comprehend the object of her visit.

"My name is Francoise Cathelineau," said the sybil, "and Jacques Cathelineau was my son."

"And proud you may be to have been his mother. He was a great and good man: he was trusted
and loved by all La Vendee. No one was so beloved by the poor as he was; no one was so entirely
trusted by the rich and great."

"I wish that the rich and great had left him as they found him. It would be well for him and
me this morning, if he had not so entirely trusted them."

"His death was a noble death. He died for the throne which he honoured, and loved so loyally;
and his name will be honoured in Poitou, aye, and in all France, as long as the names of the
great and the good are remembered. It must be a bitter thing to lose an only son, but his dearest
friends should not regret him in such a cause."

"Dearest friends! What do you know of his dearest friends? How can you tell what his dearest
friends may feel about it?"

"I know what I feel myself. Perhaps I cannot judge of all a mother's agony in losing her son;
but I may truly say, that of those who knew Cathelineau, none valued him more than I did."

"Valued him! Yes, you valued him as you would a war-horse, or a strong tower, but you did not
love him. He was not of your race, or breed. His hands were hard with toil, his hair was rough,
and his voice was harsh with the night air. The breath of the labouring poor is noisome in
the nostrils of the rich. His garments smelt of industry, and his awkward gait told tales of
his humble trade. You did not love him: such as you could not have loved a man like him. You
have come here to bid me to forget my son, and you think it easy for me to do so, because you
and his noble friends have forgotten him. You are welcome, Mademoiselle, but you might have
saved yourself the trouble."

"God forbid that I should ask you to forget him. I can never forget him myself."

"Would that I could--would that I could! He left me that morning when I bade him to stay, though
I went down on my knees to ask it as a favour. He was a stubborn self-willed man, and he went
his own way. He never passed another night under his mother's roof; he never again heard his
mother's blessing. I wish I could forget him. Indeed, indeed, I wish I could!" and the old
woman swayed herself backwards and forwards in her chair, repeating the wish, as though she
did not know that any one was with her in the cottage.

Agatha hardly knew what to say to the strange woman before her, or how to soften her bitterness
of spirit. She had felt an unaccountable attraction to Cathelineau's mother. She had imagined
that she could speak to her of her son with affection and warmth, though she could not do so
to any other living soul She had flattered herself that she should have a melancholy pleasure
in talking of his death, and in assuring his aged mother that she had soothed her son's last
hours, and given him, in his dying moments, that care which can only be given by the hands
of a woman. She now felt herself repulsed, and learnt that the short career of glory which
had united her with Cathelineau, had severed him from his mother. Nevertheless her heart yearned
to the old woman; she still hoped that, if she could touch the right cord, she might find her
way to the mother's heart.

"I thought, perhaps," she said, "you would be glad to hear some tidings of his last moments;
and as I was with him when he died, I have come to tell you that his death was that of a Christian,
who hoped everything from the merits of his Saviour."

"May his soul rest in peace," said the mother, crossing herself, and mechanically putting her
hands to her beads. "May his soul rest in peace. And you were with him when he died, Mademoiselle,
were you?"

"I knelt at his bed-side as the breath passed from his body."

"It would have been better for him had one of his own degree been there: not that I doubt you
did the duty of a good neighbour, as well as it might be done by one like you. Might I ask
you your name, lady?"

"My name is Agatha Larochejaquelin."

"Larochejaquelin! I'm sorry for it. It was that name that first led Jacques into trouble: it
was young Larochejaquelin that first made my son a soldier. I will not blame you, for you say
you were kind to him at a time when men most want kindness; but, I wish that neither I nor
he had ever heard your name."

"You are wrong there, my friend. It was Cathelineau made a soldier of my brother, not my brother
who made a soldier of him. Henri Larochejaquelin was only a follower of Cathelineau."

"A Marquis obey a poor postillion! Yes, you stuffed him full with such nonsense as that! You
made him fancy himself a General! You cannot fool me so easily. My son was not a companion
for noble men and noble ladies. A wise man will never consort with those who are above him
in degree."

"We all looked on Cathelineau as equal to the best among us," answered Agatha. "We all strove
to see who should show him most honour."

The old woman sat silent for a while, turning her wheel with great violence, and then she moved
abruptly round, and facing Agatha, said:

"Will you answer me one question truly, Mademoiselle?"

Agatha said she would.

"Are you betrothed as yet to your lover?"

"No, indeed," answered she; "I am not betrothed."

"And now answer me another question. Suppose this son of mine, who, as you say, was as great
as the greatest among you, and as noble as the noblest; suppose he had admired your beauty,
and had offered to take you home to his mother as the wife of his bosom, how would you then
have answered him? What would you then have thought of the postillion? Would he then have been
the equal of gay young counts, and high-blooded marquises?"

Agatha at first made no reply, and a ruby blush suffused her whole face. She was not at all
unwilling that Cathelineau's mother should know the feeling which she had entertained for her
son, but the abruptness, and the tone of the question, took her by surprise, and for a moment
scattered her thoughts.

"Now I have made you angry, Mademoiselle," said the other, chuckling at the success of her
scheme. "Now you are wrath that I should have dared to suppose that the daughter of a Marquis
could have looked, in the way of love, on a poor labourer who had been born and bred in a hovel
like this."

"You mistake me, my friend; I am not angry--I am anything but angry."

"You would have scorned him as a loathsome reptile, which to touch would be an abomination,"
continued the old woman, not noticing, in her eagerness, Agatha's denial. "You would have run
from him in disgust, and the servants would have let loose the dogs at him, or have chained
him as a madman. Yes, your delicate frame shakes with horror at the idea, that a filthy stable
boy could have looked on your beauty, and have dared to wish to possess it: and yet you presume
to tell me that Cathelineau was among you as an equal: he was with you as a Jew is among Christians,
as a slobbering drunkard among sober men, as one stricken with fever among the healthy. My
son should have been too proud to have eaten bread at a table where his hand was thought unclean,
or to have accepted favours, where he dared not look for love."

"You are unjust to Cathelineau," replied Agatha. "You are in every way unjust, both to your
son and to me. He accepted no favour from us, but he did--but he did look--" and she paused,
as though she still lacked courage to speak the words which were on her tongue, but after a
moment she went on and said, "he did look for love, and he did not look in vain."

"He did love, do you say, and not in vain! He did love, and made his love acceptable to one
of those fine flaunting ladies who sit at ease all day, twirling a few bits of silk with their
small white hands. Do you say such a one as that loved Cathelineau! Who was she? What is her
name? Where is she?"

"She is close to you now," said Agatha, sitting down on a low stool at the old woman's feet.
"I told you her name a while since. It is I who loved your son: I, Agatha Larochejaquelin."

Francoise Cathelineau dropped from her hand the flax, which she had hitherto employed herself
in preparing for the wheel, and pushing from her forehead her loose grey locks, and resting
on her knees her two elbows, she gazed long and intently into Agatha's face.

"It is just the face he would have loved," said she aloud, yet speaking to herself. "Yes, it
is the face of which he used to dream and talk--pale and sad, but very fair: and though I used
to bid him mind his work, and bring down his heart to love some poor honest labouring girl,
I did not the less often think over his strange fancies. And Jacques told you that he loved
you, did he, Mademoiselle? I wonder at that--I wonder at that; it would have been more like
himself to have carried his love a secret to the grave."

"He was dying when he told me that he regarded me above other women; and I am prouder of the
dying hero's love, than I could have been had a Prince knelt at my feet."

"He was dying when he confessed his love! Yes, I understand it now: death will open the lips
and bring forth the truth, when the dearest hopes of life, when the sharpest pang of the heart
fail to do so. Had he not been sure that life with him was gone, he never would have spoken
of his love. He was a weak, foolish man. Very weak in spite of all his courage; very weak and
very foolish--very weak and very foolish."

She was talking more to herself than to Agatha, as she thus spoke of her son's character, and
for a minute or two she continued in the same strain, speaking of him in a way that showed
that every little action, every wish of his, had been to her a subject of thought and anxiety;
and that she took a strange pride in those very qualities for which she blamed him.

"And did you come to me on purpose to tell me this, Mademoiselle?" she said after a while.

"I came to talk to you about your son, and to offer you, for his sake, the affection of a daughter."

"And when he told you that he loved you, what answer did you make him? tell me: did you comfort
him; did you say one word to make him happy? I know, from your face, that you had not the heart
to rebuke a dying man."

"Rebuke him! How could I have rebuked him? though I had never owned it to myself I now feel
that I had loved him before he had ever spoken to me of love."

"But what did you say to him? tell me what you said to him. He was my own son, my only son.
He was stubborn, and self-willed, but still he was my son; and his words were sweeter to me
than music, and his face was brighter to me than the light of heaven. If you made him happy
before he died, I will kneel down and worship you," and joining her skinny hands together,
she laid them upon Agatha's knees. "Come, sweetest, tell me what answer you made my poor boy
when he told you that he loved you."

"It is a fearful thing, you know, to speak to a dying man," answered Agatha. "You must not
suppose that we were talking as though he were still in the prime of health and strength--"

"But what did you say to him? you said something. You did not, at any rate, bid him remember
that he was a poor labouring man, and that you were a lady of high rank."

"We neither of us thought of those things then. I do not know what it was I said, but I strove
to say the truth. I strove to make him understand how much I valued, esteemed--and loved him."

"You told him that you loved him; you are sure you told him that. I wish he had lived now.
I wish he had lived and won more battles, and beat the blues for good and all, and then he
would have married you, and brought you home as his wife to St. Florent, wouldn't he, love?
There would have been something in that. There would have been something really grand in that.
Such a beautiful bride! such a noble bride! so very, very beautiful!" and the old woman continued
gazing at the face of her whom she was fancying to herself a daughter-in-law. "Real noble blood
of the very highest. Had he married you, he would have been a Marquis, wouldn't he? I wish
he had lived now, in spite of all I said. Why did he die when there was such fortune before
him I Why did he die when there was such great fortune before him!"

"He was happy in his death," said Agatha. "I do not think he even wished to live. As it is,
he has been spared much sorrow which we must all endure. Though I loved your son, I do not
regret his death."

"But I do--but I do," said the old woman. "Had he only lived to call you his wife, there would
have been. honour in that--there would have been real glory in that. People would then not
have dared to say that after all Cathelineau was only a postillion."

"Do not regard what people say. Had a Princess given him her hand, his fame could not be brighter
than it was. There was no thought of marriage between us, since we first knew each other. There
has been no time for such thoughts; but his memory to me is that of a dear--dear friend."

From the time when Cathelineau first went to Durbelliere, after the battle of St. Florent,
his mother had expressed the greatest dislike at his attempting to associate with those who
were so much above himself in rank; with those who would, as she said, use him and scorn him.
She had affected to feel, or perhaps really felt, a horror of the insolence of the great, and
had quarrelled with her son for throwing himself among them. This feeling, however, arose,
not from contempt, but from admiration and envy. In her secret soul the high and mighty seemed
so infinitely superior to those in her own rank, that she had felt sure that her son could
not be admitted among them as an equal, and she was too proud to wish that he should be admitted
into their company as a humble hanger-on. What Agatha had now confessed to her had surprised
and delighted her. There could be no doubt now; there was the daughter of one of the noblest
houses in Poitou sitting at her feet in her own cabin, owning her love for the poor postillion.
Agatha Larochejaquelin, young, noble, beautiful, grandly beautiful as she was, had come to
her to confess that she had given her heart to her son. There was, however, much pain mixed
with her gratification. Cathelineau had gone, without enjoying the high honours which might
have been his. Had he lived, Agatha Larochejaquelin would have been her daughter-in-law; but
now the splendid vision could never be more than a vision. She could solace herself with thinking
of the high position her son had won for himself, but she could never enjoy the palpable reality
of his honours.

She sat, repeating to herself the same words, "Sad and pale, but very beautiful--sad and pale,
but very beautiful; just as he used to dream. Why did he die, when such fortune was before
him! Why did he die, when such noble fortune was before him!"

Agatha suffered her to go on for a while before she interrupted her, and then she came to the
real purport of her visit. She offered the old woman her assistance and protection, and begged
her to pass over with the others into Brittany, assuring her that she should want for nothing
as long as Henri or her father had the means of subsistence, and that she should live among
them as an honoured guest, loved and revered as the mother of Cathelineau.

On this point, however, she remained obstinate. Whether she still fancied that she would be
despised by her new friends, or whether, as she said, she was indifferent to life, and felt
herself too old to move from the spot where she had passed so many years, she resolutely held
her purpose to await the coming of the republicans. "They will hardly put forth their strength
to crush such a worm as me," she said; "and if they do, it will be for the better."

Agatha then offered her money, but this she refused, assuring her that she did not want it.

"You shall give me one thing though, if you will, sweet lady, that I may think of you often,
and have something to remind me of you; nay, you shall give me two things--one is a lock of
your soft brown hair, the other is a kiss."

Agatha undid the braid which held up her rich tresses, and severing from her head a lock of
the full length to which her hair grew, tied it in a portion of the braid, and put it into
the old woman's hand; then she stooped down and kissed her skinny lips, and having blessed
her, and bid her cherish the memory of her son with a holy love, as she herself did and always
would, Agatha. Larochejaquelin left the cabin, and returned to her father.

CHAPTER VIII

"WHAT GOOD HAS THE WAR DONE?"

The raft which Chapeau had made was by degrees enlarged and improved, and the great mass of
the Vendeans passed the river slowly, but safely. As soon as the bulk of the people was over,
Henri Larochejaquelin left the southern shore, and crossed over to marshal the heterogeneous
troops on their route towards Laval, leaving Chapeau and Arthur Mondyon to superintend and
complete the transit of those who remained.

It was a beautiful October evening, and as the sun was setting, the two were standing close
to the edge of the water, congratulating themselves that their dirty and disagreeable toil
was well nigh over. From time to time stragglers were still coming down to the river-side,
begging for a passage, and imploring that they might not be abandoned to the cruelty of the
blues, and as they came they were shipped off on the raft. There were now, however, no more
than would make one fair load, and Chapeau and Arthur were determined that it was full time
for them both to leave the Anjou side of the river, and follow the main body of the army towards
Laval.

"We might remain here for ever, Chapeau, if we stayed for the very last of all," said the Chevalier,
as he jumped on the raft. "Come, man, get on, we've our number now, and we couldn't take more,
if they come. There's some one hallooing up there, and we'll leave the little boat for them.
Come, I want to get over and have a run on dry land, for I'm as cold as a stone. This living
like a duck, half in the water and half out, don't suit me at all. The next river we cross
over, I'll make Henri get another ferryman."

Chapeau still lingered on the shore, and putting his hand up to his ear, listened to the voice
of some one who was calling from a distance. It was too dark for him to distinguish any one,
but the voice of a woman hallooing loudly, but with difficulty, as though she were out of breath
with running, was plainly audible.

"If you mean to wait here all night, I don't," said the Chevalier, "so good night to you, and
if you don't get on, I'll push off without you."

"Stop a moment, M. Arthur, there's a woman there."

"I've no doubt there is--there are fifty women there--fifty hundred women, I dare say; but
we can't wait while they all drop in one by one. Don't be a fool, Jacques; is not there the
small boat left for them?"

Chapeau still listened. "Stop a moment, M. Arthur, for heaven's sake stop one moment," and
then jumping on to the raft, he clung hold of the rope, and moored it fast to the shore. "They're
friends of my own, M. Arthur; most particular friends, or I wouldn't ask to keep you. Don't
go now; after all we've gone through together, you won't leave my friends behind, if I go on
shore, will you, M. Arthur?"

"Oh, I'm a good comrade; if they're private friends, I'll wait all night. Only I hope there
ain't a great many of them."

"Only two; I think there are only two," and Chapeau once more jumped on shore, and ran to meet
his friends. He had not far to go, for the party was now close to the water's edge. As he had
supposed, it consisted only of two, an old man and a girl: Michael Stein and his daughter Annot.
Annot had been running; and dragging her father by the hand, had hallooed with all her breath,
for she had heard from some of those who still dared to trust themselves to the blues, that
the last boat was on the point of leaving the shore. The old man had disdained to halloo, and
had almost disdained to run; but he had suffered himself to be hurried into a shambling kind
of gait, and when he was met by Chapeau, he was almost as much out of breath as his daughter.

"Oh, oh! for mercy's sake--for heaven's sake--kind Sir, dear Sir," sobbed Annot, as she saw
a man approaching her; and then when he was near enough to her to be distinguished through
the evening gloom, she exclaimed:

"Mercy on us, mercy on us, its Jacques Chapeau!" and sank to the ground, as though she had
no further power to take care of herself now that she had found one who was bound to take care
of her.

"You're just in time, Michael Stein; thank God, you're just in time! Annot, come on, its only
a dozen yards to the raft, and we'll be off at once. Well, this is the luckiest chance: come
on, before a whole crowd are down upon us, and swamp us all."

"Oh me! oh me!" sobbed Annot, still sitting on the ground, as though she had not the slightest
intention of stirring another step that night: "to be left and deserted in this way by one's
friends--and one's brothers--and--and--one's--" she didn't finish the list, for she felt sure
that she had said enough to cut Chapeau to the inmost heart, if he still had a heart.

"Come, dearest girl, come; I'll explain it all by-and-bye. We have not a moment to spare. Come,
I'll lift you," and he stooped to raise her from the ground.

"Thank you, M. Chapeau, thank you, Sir; but pray leave me. I shall be better tomorrow morning;
that is, if I'm not dead, or killed, or worse. The blues are close behind us; ain't they, father?"

"Get up, Annot; get up, thou little fool, and don't trouble the man to carry thee," said Michael.
"If there be still a boat to take us, in God's name let us cross the river; for the blues are
truly in St. Florent, and after flying from them so far, it would be sore ill luck to be taken
now."

Chapeau, however, would not leave her to herself, but took her up bodily in his arms, and carrying
her down to the water's edge, put her on the raft. He and Michael soon followed, and the frail
vessel was hauled for the last time over into the island. The news that the enemy was already
in St. Florent soon passed from month to mouth, and each wretched emigrant congratulated himself
in silence that he had so far escaped from republican revenge. Many of them had still to sojourn
on the island for the night, but there they were comparatively safe; and Arthur, Chapeau, and
his friends, succeeded in gaining the opposite shore.

Poor Annot was truly in a bad state. When they heard that the ladies had left Chatillon, she
and. her father, and, indeed, all the inhabitants of Echanbroignes, felt that they could no
longer be safe in the village; and they had started off to follow the royalist army on foot
through the country. From place to place they had heard tidings, sometimes of one party, and
sometimes of another. The old man had borne the fatigue and dangers of the journey well; for,
though now old, he had been a hard-working man all his life, and was tough and seasoned in
his old age; but poor Annot had suffered dreadfully. The clothes she had brought with her were
nearly falling off her back; her feet were all but bare, and were cut and blistered with walking.
Grief and despair had taken the colour and roundness from her cheek, and she had lacked time
on her mournful journey to comb the pretty locks of which she was generally so proud.

"Oh, Jacques, Jacques, how could you leave us! how could you go away and leave us, after all
that's been between us," she said, as he bustled about to make some kind of bed for her in
the little hut, in which they were to rest for the night.

"Leave you," said Chapeau, who had listened for some time in silence to her upbraidings; "leave
you, how could I help leaving .you? Has not everybody left everybody? Did not M. Henri leave
his sister, and M. de Lescure leave his wife? And though they are now here all together, it's
by chance that they came here, the same as you have come yourself. As long as these wars last,
Annot dear, no man can answer as to where he will go, or what he will do."

"Oh, these weary wars, these weary wars!" said she, "will they never be done with? Will the
people never be tired of killing, and slaying, and burning each other? And what is the King
the better of it? Ain't they all dead: the King, and the Queen, and the young Princes, and
all of them?"

"You wouldn't have us give up now, Annot, would you? You wouldn't have us lay down our arms,
and call ourselves republicans, after all we have done and suffered?"

Annot didn't answer. She wouldn't call herself a republican; but her sufferings and sorrows
had greatly damped the loyal zeal she had shown when she worked her little fingers to the bone
in embroidering a white flag for her native village. She was now tired and cold, wet and hungry;
for Chapeau had been able to get no provisions but a few potatoes: so she laid herself down
on the hard bed which he had prepared for her; and as he spread his own coat over her shoulders,
she felt that it was, at any rate, some comfort to have her own lover once more near her.

Jacques and the old smith had no bed, so they were fain to content themselves with sitting
opposite to each other on two low stools; the best seats which the hut afforded. Jacques felt
that it was incumbent on him to do the honours of the place, and that some apology was necessary
for the poor accommodation which he had procured for his friends.

"This is a poor place for you, Michael Stein," he commenced, "a very poor place for both of
you, after your own warm cottage at Echanbroignes."

"It's a poor place, truly, M. Chapeau," said the smith, looking round on the bare walls of
the little hut.

"Indeed it is, my friend, and sorry am I to see you and Annot so badly lodged. But what then;
we shall be in Laval tomorrow, and have the best of everything--that is, if not tomorrow, the
day after."

"I don't much care about the best of everything, M. Chapeau. I've not used myself to the best,
but I would it had pleased God. to have allowed me to labour out the rest of my days in the
little smithy at Echanbroignes. I never wanted more than the bread which I could earn."

"You never did, Michael, you never did," said Chapeau, trying to flatter the old man; "and,
like an honest man, you endure without flinching what you suffer for your King. Give us your
hand, my friend, we've no wine to drink his health, but as long as our voices are left, let
us cry: Vive le Roi!"

The old man silently rejected Chapeau's proposal that he should evince his loyalty just at
present by shouting out the Vendean war-cry. "I take no credit, M. Chapeau," said he, "for
suffering for my King, though, while he lived, he always had my poor prayers for his safety.
It wasn't to fight the blues that I left my little home. It was because I couldn't stay any
without fearing to see that girl there in the rude hands of Lechelle's soldiers, and my own
roof in a blaze. It's all gone now, forge and tools; the old woman's chair, the children's
cradle; it's all gone, now and for ever. I don't wish to curse any one, M. Chapeau, but I am
not in the humour to cry Vive le Roi!"

"But Michael Stein, my dear friend," urged Chapeau, "look what others have lost too. Have not
others suffered as much? Look at the old Marquis, turned out of his house and everything lost;
and yet you won't hear a word of complaint fall from his mouth. Look at Madame de Lescure,
her husband dying; her house burnt to the ground; without a bed to lie on, or a change of dress
and yet she does not complain."

"They have brought it on themselves by their own doings," answered the smith; "and they have
brought it on me also, who have done nothing."

"Done nothing! but, indeed, you have, Michael. Have you not made pikes for us, and have not
your sons fought for us like brave soldiers?"

"I have done the work for which I was paid, as a good smith should; and as for the boys, they
took their own way. No, Jacques Chapeau, I have taken no part in your battles. I have neither
been for nor against you. As for King or Republic, it was all one to me; let them who understand
such things settle that. For fifty years I have earned my bread, and paid what I owed; and
now I am driven out from my home like a fox from its hole. Why should I say Vive le Roi! Look
at that girl there, with her bare feet bleeding from the sharp stones, and tell me, why should
I say Vive le Roi!"

Chapeau was flabbergasted, for all this was rank treason to him; and yet he didn't want to
quarrel with the smith; so he sat still and gazed into his face, as though he were struck dumb
with astonishment.

"I remember when you came to my cottage," continued the old man, "and told me that the wars
were all over, that the King was coming to Durbelliere, and that you would marry Annot, and
make a fine lady of her. I told you then what I thought of your soldiering, and your fine ladies.
I told you then what it would come to, and I told you true. I don't throw this in your teeth
to blame you, M. Chapeau, for you have only served those you were bound to serve; but surely
they who first put guns and swords into the hands of the poor people, and bade them go out
for soldiers, will have much to answer for. All this blood will be upon their heads."

"You don't mean to blame M. Henri and M. de Lescure, and the good Cathelineau, for all that
they've done?" said Chapeau, awe-struck at the language used by his companion.

"It's not for me to blame them; but look at that girl there, and then tell me, mustn't there
be some great blame somewhere?"

Chapeau did look at the girl, and all the tenderness of his heart rose into his eyes, as the
flickering light of the fire showed him her tattered and draggled dress.

"Thank God! the worst of it is over now, Michael. You're safe now, at any rate, from those
blood-hounds; and when we reach Laval, we shall all have plenty."

"And where's this Laval, M. Chapeau?"

"We're close to it--it's just a league or so; or, perhaps, seven or eight leagues to the north
of us."

"And how is it, that in times like these, such a crowd of strangers will find plenty there?"

"Why, the whole town is with us. There's a blue garrison in it; but they're very weak, and
the town itself is for the King to the backbone. They've sent a deputation to our Generals,
and invited us there; and there are gentlemen there, who have come from England, with sure
promises of money and troops. The truth is, Michael, we never were really in a position to
beat the blues as they ought to be beat till we. got to this side of the river. We never could
have done anything great in Poitou."

"I'm sorry they ever tried, M. Chapeau; but I remember when you came back, after taking Saumur,
you told me the war was over then. You used to think that a great thing."

"So it was, Michael; it was well done. The taking of Saumur was very well done; but it was
only a detail. We've found out now that it won't do to beat them in detail; it's too slow.
The Generals have a plan now, one great comprehensive plan, for finishing the war in a stroke,
and they're only waiting until they reach Laval."

"It's a great pity they didn't hit on that plan before," said Michael Stein.

The two men laid themselves down on the ground before the fire, and attempted to sleep; but
they had hardly composed themselves when they were interrupted by a loud rumour, that there
was a vast fire, close down on the opposite side of the river. They both jumped up and went
out, and saw that the whole heavens were alight with the conflagration of St. Florent--the
blues had burnt the town. The northern bank of the river was covered with the crowd of men
and women, gazing at the flames, which were consuming their own houses; and yet, so rejoiced
were they to have escaped themselves from destruction, that they hardly remembered to bewail
the loss of their property. The town of St. Florent was between three or four miles from the
place where they were congregated, and yet they could plainly see the huge sparks as they flew
upwards, and they fancied they felt the heat of the flames on their upturned faces.

Early on the following morning, the whole army was on its march towards Laval. The Vendean
leaders were well aware that the republicans were now on their track, and they were truly thankful
that some unaccountable delay in the movement of the enemy, had enabled them to put a great
river between themselves and their pursuers. The garrisons, which the Convention had thrown
into the towns of Brittany, were very insufficient, both in numbers and spirit, and the blues
abandoned one place after another as the Vendeans approached. They passed through Cande, Segre,
and Chateau-Gonthier without having to fire a shot, and though the gates of the town of Laval
were closed against them, it was only done to allow the republican soldiers time to escape
from the other side of the town.

The inhabitants of Laval flocked out in numbers to meet the poor Vendeans, and to offer them
hospitality, and such comfort as their small town could afford to so huge a crowd. They begrudged
them nothing that they possessed, and spared neither their provisions nor their houses. It
seemed that Chapeau's promise was this time true; and that, at any rate, for a time, they all
found plenty in Laval. Henri established his head-quarters in a stone house, in the centre
of the town, and here also he got accommodation for the three ladies and M. de Lescure. Nor
did Chapeau forget to include Annot Stein in the same comfortable establishment, under the
pretext that her services would be indispensable.

M. de Lescure had suffered grievously through the whole journey, but he seemed to rally when
he reached Laval, and the comparative comfort of his quiet chamber gave him ease, and lessened
his despondency. The whole party recovered something of their usual buoyancy, and when Henri
brought in word, in the evening, that if the worst came to the worst, he could certainly hold
out the town against the republican army until assistance reached them from England, they were
all willing to hope that the cause in which they were engaged might still prosper.

CHAPTER IX

LA PETITE VENDEE

For four or five days they all remained quiet in Laval, with nothing to disturb their tranquillity,
but rumours of what was going on on both sides of the river. The men, with the exception of
the old Marquis and de Lescure, were hard at work from morning until night; but they had hardly
time or patience to describe accurately what was going on, to those who were left within; and
the time passed very heavily with them. Two sofas had been carried to the windows of the sitting-room
which they occupied. These windows looked out into the main thoroughfare of the town, and here
the Marquis and the wounded man were placed, so that they might see all that was passing in
the street. Various reports reached them from time to time, a few of which were confirmed,
many proved to be false, and some still remained doubtful; but two facts were positively ascertained.
Firstly, that the main army of the republicans had passed the river at Angers, and were advancing
towards Laval; and secondly, that there was a considerable number of Breton peasants, already
under arms, in the country, who were harassing the blues whenever they could meet them in small
parties, and very frequently menacing the garrisons which they found in the small towns.

This last circumstance created a great deal of surprise, not so much from the fact of the Bretons
having taken up arms against the Convention, as from a certain degree of mystery which were
attached to the men who were roving about the country. It appeared that they were all under
the control of one leader, whose name was not known in Laval, but who was supposed to have
taken an active part in many of the battles fought on the other side of the river. His tactics,
however, were very different from those which had been practised in La Vendee. He never took
any prisoners, or showed any quarter; but slaughtered indiscriminately every republican soldier
that fell into his hands. He encouraged his men to pillage the towns, where the inhabitants
were presumed to be favourable to the Convention; and this licence which he allowed was the
means of drawing many after him, who might not have been very willing to fight merely for the
honour of defending the throne. After the custom of their country, which was different from
that which prevailed in Poitou and Anjou, these peasant-soldiers wore their long flaxen hair
hanging down over their shoulders, and were clothed in rough dresses, made of the untanned
skins of goats or sheep, with the hair on the outside. The singularity of their appearance
at first added a terror to their arms, which was enhanced by the want of experience and cowardice
of the republican troops through the country. This wild, roving band of lawless men had assumed
to themselves the name of La Petite Vendee, and certainly they did much towards assisting the
Vendeans; for they not only cleared the way for them, in many of the towns of Brittany, but
they prepared the people to expect them, and created a very general opinion that there would
be more danger in siding with the blues than with the royal party.

If the men of La Petite Vendee, had rendered themselves terrible, their Captain had made--not
his name, for that was unknown--but his character much more so. He was represented to be a
young man, but of a fierce and hideous aspect; the under part of his face was covered with
his black beard, and he always wore on his head a huge heavy cap, which covered his brows,
shaded his eyes from sight, and concealed his face nearly as effectually as a vizor. He was
always on horseback, and alone; for he had neither confidant nor friend. The peasant-soldiers
believed him to be invulnerable, for they represented him to be utterly careless as to where
he went, or what danger he encountered. The only name they knew him by, was that of the Mad
Captain; and, probably, had he been less ugly, less mysterious, and less mad, the people would
not have obeyed him so implicitly, or followed him so faithfully.

Such were the tales that were repeated from time to time to Madame de Lescure and her party
by the little Chevalier and Chapeau; and according to their accounts, the Mad Captain was an
ally who would give them most valuable help in their difficulties. The whole story angered
de Lescure, whose temper was acerbated by his own inactivity and suffering, and whose common
sense could not endure the seeming folly of putting confidence in so mysterious a warrior.

"You don't really believe the stories you hear of this man, I hope," he said to his wife and
sister, one morning; "he is some inhuman ruffian, who is disgracing, by his cruelty, the cause
which he has joined, for the sake of plunder and rapine."

"At any rate," said Marie, "he seems to have scared the blues in this country; and if so, he
must be a good friend to us."

"If we cannot do well without such friends, we shall never do well with them. Believe me, whoever
he may be, this man is no soldier."

De Lescure was, perhaps, right in the character which he attributed to the Captain of La Petite
Vendee; but the band of men which that mysterious leader now commanded, held its ground in
Brittany long after the Vendean armies were put down in Poitou and Anjou. They then became
known by another name, and the Chouan bands for years carried on a fearful war against the
government in that part of the province which is called the Morbihan.

About eight o'clock in the evening, Henri and Arthur Mondyon returned to the house, after a
long day's work, and were the first to bring new tidings both of the blues and their new ally,
the Mad Captain. A portion of the republican army had advanced as far as Antrames, within a
league or two of Laval; and they had hardly taken up their quarters in the town, before they
were attacked, routed, and driven out of it by the men of La Petite Vendee. Many hundreds of
the republicans had been slaughtered, and those who had escaped, carried to the main army an
exaggerated account of the numbers, daring, and cruelty of the Breton rebels.

"Whoever he is," said Henri, in answer to a question from his sister, "he is a gallant fellow,
and I shall be glad to give him my hand. There can be no doubt of it now, Charles, for the
blues at Antrames certainly numbered more than double the men he had with him; and I am told
he drove them helter-skelter out of the town, like a flock of sheep."

"And do you mean to let him have the rest of the war all to himself?" said de Lescure, who
was rather annoyed than otherwise at the success of a man whom he had stigmatized as a ruffian.

"I am afraid we shan't find it quite so easy to get the war taken off our hands," said Henri,
laughing; "but I believe it's the part of a good General to make the most of any unexpected
assistance which may come in his way."

"But, Henri," said Marie, "you must have some idea who this wonderful wild man is. Don't they
say he was one of the Vendean chiefs?"

"He says so himself," said Arthur. "He told some of the people here that he was at Fontenay
and Saumur; and he talked of knowing Cathelineau and Bonchamps. I was speaking to a man who
heard him say so."

"And did the man say what he was like?" said Marie.

"I don't think he saw him at all," answered Arthur. "It seems that he won't let any one see
his face, if he can help it; but they all say he is quite a young man."

Chapeau now knocked at the door, and brought farther tidings. The Mad Captain and all his troop
had returned from Antrames to Laval, and had just now entered the town.

"Our men are shaking the Bretons by the hand," said Chapeau, "and wondering at their long hair
and rough skins. Three or four days ago, I feared the Vendeans would never have faced the blues
again; but now they are as ready to meet them as ever they were."

"And the Captain, is he actually in Laval at present, Chapeau?"

"Indeed he is, M. Henri. I saw him riding down the street, by the Hotel de Ville, myself, not
ten minutes since."

"Did you see his face, Chapeau?" asked Marie.

"Did he look like any one you knew?" asked Madame de Lescure.

"Did he ride well?" asked the little Chevalier.

"Did he look like a soldier?" asked M. de Lescure.

"Who do you think he is, Chapeau?" asked Henri Larochejaquelin.

Chapeau looked from one to another, as these questions were asked him; and then selecting those
of M. de Lescure and his sister, as the two easiest to answer, he said:

"I did not see his face, Mademoiselle. They say that he certainly is a good soldier, M. Charles,
but he certainly does not look like any one of our Vendean officers."

"Who can it be?" said Henri. "Can it be Marigny, Charles?"

"Impossible," said de Lescure; "Marigny is a fine, robust fellow, with a handsome open face.
They say this man is just the reverse."

"It isn't d'Elbee come to life again, is it?" said Arthur Mondyon. "He's ugly enough, and not
very big."

"Nonsense, Arthur, he's an old man; and of all men the most unlikely to countenance such doings
as those of these La Petite Vendee. I think, however, I know the man. It must be Charette.
He is courageous, but yet cruel; and he has exactly that dash of mad romance in him which seems
to belong to this new hero."

"Charette is in the island of Noirmoutier," said de Lescure, "and by all accounts, means to
stay there. Had he been really willing to give us his assistance, we never need have crossed
the Loire."

"Oh! it certainly was not Charette," said Chapeau. "I saw M. Charette on horseback once, and
he carries himself as though he had swallowed a poker; and this gentleman twists himself about
like--like--"

"Like a mountebank, I suppose," said de Lescure.

"He rides well, all the same, M. Charles," rejoined Chapeau.

"And who do you think he is, Chapeau?" said Henri.

Chapeau shrugged his shoulders, as no one but a Frenchman can shrug them, intending to signify
the impossibility of giving an opinion; immediately afterwards he walked close up to his master,
and whispered something in his ear. Henri looked astonished, almost confounded, by what his
servant said to him, and then replied, almost in a whisper: "Impossible, Chapeau, quite impossible."

Immediately afterwards, Chapeau left the room, and Henri followed him; and calling him into
a chamber in the lower part of the house, began to interrogate him as to what he had whispered
upstairs.

"I did not like to speak out before them all, M. Henri," said Jacques, "for I did not know
how the ladies might take it; but as sure as we're standing here, the man I saw on horseback
just now was M. Adolphe Denot."

"Impossible, Chapeau, quite impossible. How on earth could he have got the means to raise a
troop of men in Brittany? Besides, he never would have returned to the side he deserted."

"It does not signify, M. Henri, whether it be likely or unlikely: that man was Adolphe Denot;
I'd wager my life on it, without the least hesitation. Why, M. Henri, don't I know him as well
as I know yourself?"

"But you didn't see his face?"

"I saw him rise in his saddle, and throw his arms up as he did so, and that was quite enough
for me; the Mad Captain of La Petite Vendee is no other than M. Adolphe Denot."

Henri Larochejaquelin was hardly convinced, and yet he knew that Chapeau would not express
himself so confidently unless he had good grounds for doing so. He was aware, also, that it
was almost impossible for any one who had intimately known Denot to mistake his seat on horseback;
and, therefore, though not quite convinced, he was much inclined to suspect that, in spite
of improbabilities, his unfortunate friend was the mysterious leader of the Breton army. He
determined that he would, at any rate, seek out the man, whoever he might be; and that if he
found that Adolphe Denot was really in Laval, he would welcome him back, with all a brother's
love, to the cause from which, for so Henri had always protested, nothing but insanity had
separated him.

"At any rate, Chapeau, we must go and find the truth of all this. Moreover, whoever this man
be, it is necessary that I should know him: so come along."

They both sallied out into the street, which was quite dark, but which was still crowded with
strangers of every description. The wine-shops were all open, and densely filled with men who
were rejoicing over the victory which had been gained that morning; and the Breton soldiers
were boasting of what they had done, while the Vendeans talked equally loudly of what they
would do when their Generals would once more lead them out against the blues.

From these little shops, and from the house-windows, an uncertain flicker of light was thrown
into the street, by the aid of which Henri and Chapeau made their way to the market-place,
in which there was a guard-house and small barrack, at present the position of the Vendean
military head-quarters. In this spot a kind of martial discipline was maintained. Sentinels
were regularly posted and exchanged; and some few junior officers remained on duty, ready for
any exigence for which they might be required. Here they learnt that the Bretons, after returning
from Antrames, had dispersed themselves through the town, among the houses of the citizens,
who were willing to welcome their victorious neighbours, but that nothing had been seen of
their Captain since he disbanded his men on the little square. They learnt, however, that he
had been observed to give his horse in charge to a man who acted as his Lieutenant, and who
was known to be a journeyman baker, usually employed in Laval.

After many inquiries, Henri learnt the name and residence of the master baker for whom this
man worked, and thither he sent Chapeau, while he himself remained in the guard-house, talking
to two of the Breton soldiers, who had been induced to come in to him.

"We none of us know his name, Monsieur," said one of them, "and it is because he has no name,
we call him the Mad Captain; and it is true enough, he has many mad ways with him."

"For all his madness though, he is a desperate fine soldier; and he cares no more for a troop
of blues than I would for a flock of geese," said the other.

"I think its love must make him go on as he does," continued the first.

"There's something more besides that," said the second, "for he's always fearful that people
should take him for a coward. He's always asking us whether we ever saw him turn his back to
the enemy; and bidding us be sure, whenever he falls in battle, to tell the Vendeans how well
he fought. That's what makes us all so sure that he came from the other side of the water."

"Then, when he's in the middle of the hottest of the fight," said the first, "he halloos out
'Now for Saumur--here's for Saumur--now for the bridge of Saumur!' To be sure he talks a deal
about Saumur, and I think myself he must have been wounded there badly, somewhere near the brain."

Though Henri did not quite understand why Denot should especially allude to Saumur in his mad
moments, yet he understood enough of what the men told him about their Captain, to be sure
that Adolphe was the man; and though he could not but be shocked to hear him spoken of as a
madman, yet he rejoiced in his heart to find that he had done something to redeem his character
as a loyal soldier. He learnt that Denot had been above two months in Brittany; that he had
first appeared in the neighbourhood of Laval with about two hundred men, who had followed him
thither out of that province, and that he had there been joined by as many more belonging to
Maine, and that since that time he had been backwards and forwards from one town to another,
chiefly in the Morbihan; and that he had succeeded in almost every case in driving the republican
garrison from the towns which he attacked.

After Henri had remained a couple of hours in the guard-house, and when it was near midnight,
Chapeau returned. He had found out the lodgings of the journeyman baker, had gone thither,
and had learnt, after many inquiries, which were very nearly proving ineffectual, that the
Mad Captain, whoever he was, occupied a little bed-room at the top of the same house, and that
he was, at the very moment at which these inquiries were being made, fast asleep in his bed,
having given his Lieutenant, the journeyman baker, strict orders to call him at three o'clock
in the morning.

Henri and Chapeau again started on their search; and making their way, for the second time,
through the dark, crowded streets, reached a small miserable looking house, in a narrow lane,
at one of the lower windows of which Chapeau knocked with his knuckles.

'I told M. Plume that I should call again tonight,' said he, "and he'll know its me."

"And is M. Plume the baker?" asked Henri.

"He was a baker till two months since," answered Chapeau, "but now he's a soldier and an officer;
and I can assure you, M. Henri, he doesn't think a little of himself. He's fully able to take
the command-in-chief of the Breton army, when any accident of war shall have cut off his present
Captain; at least, so he told me."

"You must have had a deal of conversation with him in a very short time, Chapeau."

"Oh, he talks very quick, M. Henri; but he wouldn't let himself down to speak a word to me
till I told him I was aide-de-camp-in-chief to the generalissimo of the Vendean army; and then
he took off the greasy little cap he wears, told me that his name was Auguste Emile Septimus
Plume, and said he was most desirous to drink a cup of wine with me in the next estaminet.
Then I ran off to you, telling him I would return again as soon as I had seen that all was
right at the guard-house."

"Knock again, Chapeau," said Henri, "for I think your military friend must have turned in for
the night."

Chapeau did knock, and as he did so, he put his mouth close to the door, and called out "M.
Plume--Captain Plume--Captain Auguste Plume, a message--an important message from the Commander-in-Chief
of the Vendean army. You'll get nothing from him, M. Henri, unless you talk about Generals,
aide-de-camps, and despatches; advanced guards, flank movements, and light battalions."

M. Plume, or Captain Plume, as he preferred being called, now opened the door, and poking his
head out, welcomed Chapeau, and assured him that if he would step round to the wine shop he
would be with him in a moment.

"But, my dear friend Captain Plume, stop a moment," said Chapeau, fixing his foot in the open
doorway, so as to prevent it being closed, "here is a gentleman--one of our officers--in fact,
my friend," and he whispered very confidentially as he gave the important information, "here
is the Commander-in-Chief, and he must see your General tonight; to arrange--to arrange the
tactics of the united army for tomorrow."

Auguste Emile Septimus Plume, in spite of his own high standing, in what he was pleased to
call the army of Brittany, felt himself rather confused at hearing that a General-in-Chief
was standing at the door of his humble dwelling; and, as he again took off his cap, and putting
his hand to his heart made a very low bow, he hesitated much as to what answer he should make;
for he reflected within himself that the present quarters of his General, were hardly fitting
for such an interview.

"The General upstairs," said he, "is snatching a short repose after the labours of the day.
Would not tomorrow morning--early tomorrow morning--"

"No," said Henri, advancing, and thrusting himself in at the open door, "tomorrow morning will
be too late; and I am sure your General is too good a soldier to care for having his rest broken;
tell me which is his room, and I'll step up to him. You needn't mind introducing me." And as
he spoke he managed to pass by the baker, and ran up a few steps of the creaking, tottering stairs.

The poor baker was very much annoyed at this proceeding; for, in the first place, he had strict
orders from his Commander to let no one up into his room; and, in the next place, his own wife
and three children were in the opposite garret to that occupied by the Captain, and he was
very unwilling that their poverty should be exposed. He could not, however, turn a Commander-in-Chief
out of the house, nor could he positively refuse to give him the information required; so he
hallooed out, "The top chamber to the right, General; the top chamber to the right. It's a
poor place," he added, speaking to Chapeau; "but the truth is, he don't choose to have more
comforts about him than what are enjoyed by the poorest soldier in his army."

"We won't think any the worse of him for that," said Chapeau. "We're badly enough off ourselves,
sometimes--besides, your Captain is a very old friend of M. Henri."

"An old friend of whose?" said Plume.

"Of M. Henri Larochejaquelin--that gentleman who has now gone upstairs: they have known each
other all their lives."

Auguste Plume became the picture of astonishment. "Known each other all their lives!" said
he; "and what's his name, then?"

"Why, I told you: M. Henri Larochejaquelin."

"No, but the other," and he pointed with his thumb over his shoulder up the stairs. "My Captain,
you know; if he's the friend of your Captain, I suppose you know what his name is?"

"And do you mean to say, you don't know yourself, your own Captain's name."

Plume felt the impropriety, in a military point of view, of the fact. He felt that, as second
in command, he ought to have been made acquainted with his General's name, and that it would
have been difficult to find, in the history of all past wars, a parallel to his own ignorance.
He also reflected, that if Chapeau knew that the two Generals had been friends all their lives,
he must probably know both their names, and that therefore the information so very necessary
might now be obtained.

"Well then, M. Chapeau," (he had learnt Chapeau's name), "I cannot say that I do exactly know
how he was generally called before he joined us in Brittany. You know so many people have different
names for different places. What used you to call him now when you knew him?"

"But you have some name for him, haven't you?" said the other, not answering the question.

"We call him General, or Captain, mostly," said Plume. "Those are the sort of names which come
readiest to a soldier's mouth. In the same way, they don't call me Plume, or M. Plume, or Captain
Plume, but just simply Lieutenant; and, do you know, I like it better."

The Lieutenant was a tall, lanky, bony man, from whose body the heat of the oven, at which
he had always worked, seemed to have drawn every ounce of flesh. He was about forty, or forty-five,
years of age. He was nearly bald, but a few light, long, straggling locks of hair stood out
on each side of his head. He still wore most of the dress in which he had been accustomed to
work, for proper military accoutrements had not yet come within his reach. He had, however,
over his shoulder an old bawdrick, from which usually hung a huge sabre, with which he gallantly
performed the duties of his present profession. It cannot be said the Lieutenant had none of
the qualities of a soldier, for he was courageous enough; but, beyond that, his aptitude for
military duties was not pre-eminent. He always marched, or rather shuffled along, with a stoop
in his back, which made his shoulders as high as his head. He had not the slightest idea of
moving in time; but this was of little consequence, for none of his men could have moved with
him if he had. When on active duty, he rushed about with the point of his drawn sword on a
level with his breast, as though he were searching for "blues" in every corner, with a fixed
determination of instantly immolating any that he might find. He had large saucer eyes, with
which he glared about him, and which gave him a peculiar look of insane enthusiasm, very fitted
for the Lieutenant, first in command, under a mad Captain. Such was Auguste Plume, and such
like were the men who so long held their own ground, not only against the military weakness
of the Directory, but even against the military strength of Napoleon.

We will leave Chapeau and his new friend still standing in the passage, for Plume could not
invite him in, as none of the rooms were his own except the little garret upstairs; and we
will follow Henri as he went in search of the Mad Captain, merely premising that all Plume's
efforts to find out the name of his superior officer were unavailing. Without any farther invitation,
Henri hurried up the stairs, snatching as he went a glimmering rush-light out of the ci-devant
baker's hands; and when he got to the top he knocked boldly at the right-hand door. No one
answered him, however, and he repeated his knocks over and over again, and even kicked and
hallooed at the door, but still without effect. He then tried to open it, but it was fastened
on the inside: and then he kicked and hallooed again. He distinctly heard the hard breathing
within of some one, as though in a heavy sleep; and be the sleeper who he might, he was determined
not to leave the stairs without waking him; and, therefore, diligently sat to work to kick again.

"Is that you, Auguste?" said a hoarse, sickly woman's voice, proceeding from the door of the
opposite chamber. "Why don't you bring me the candle?"

"No, Madame," said Henri, "the gentleman is now downstairs. He lent me your candle for a minute
or two, while I call upon my friend here. I hope you'll excuse the noise I make, but I find
it very difficult to wake him."

"And why should you want to wake him?" said the woman. "It's three nights now since he stretched
himself on a bed, and he'll be up again long before daylight. Give me the candle, and go away,
and tell that unfortunate poor man below to come to his bed."

There was a tone of utter misery in the poor woman's voice, which touched Henri to the heart.
She had uttered no complaint of her own sufferings; but the few words she had spoken made him
feel all the wretchedness and the desolation of homes, which he and his friends had brought
upon the people by the war; and he almost began to doubt whether even the cause of the King
should have been supported at so terrible a cost. He could not, however, now go back, nor was
he willing to abandon his present object, so he again shook and kicked the door.

"That'll never rouse him, though you should go on all night," said a little urchin about twelve
years old, the eldest hope of M. and Madame Plume, who rushed out on the landing in his ragged
shirt. "If Monsieur will give me a sou, I'll wake him." Henri engaged him at the price, and
the boy, putting his mouth down to the key-hole, said, or rather whispered loudly, "Captain--Captain--Captain--the
blues--the blues."

This shibboleth had the desired effect, for the man within was instantly heard to start from
his bed, and to step out upon the floor.

"Yes, yes; I'm ready, I'm up," said he, in the confused voice of a man suddenly awoke from
a sound sleep. "Where's Plume? send Plume to me at once."

Henri immediately recognized the voice of Adolphe Denot, and all doubt was at an end. Denot
came to the door, and undid the wooden bolt within, to admit, as he thought, the poor zealous
creature who had attached himself to him in his new career; and when the door opened, the friend
of his youth--the man whom he had so deeply injured--stood before him. Henri, in his anxiety
to find out the truth of Chapeau's surmise, had energetically and, as it turned out, successfully
pursued the object of his search; but he had not for a moment turned over in his mind, what
he would say to Denot if he found him; how he would contrive to tell him that he forgave him
all his faults; how he would explain to him that he was willing again to receive him into his
arms as a friend and a brother. The moment was now come, when he must find words to say all
this; and as the awkward bolt was being drawn, Henri felt that he was hardly equal to the difficulties
of his position.

If Henri found it difficult to speak, with Denot the difficulty was much greater. The injuries
which he had inflicted on his friend, the insults which he had heaped on his sister, rushed
to his mind. He thought of his own deep treachery, his black ingratitude; and his disordered
imagination could only conceive that Henri had chosen the present moment to secure a bloody
vengeance. He forgot that he had already been forgiven for what he had done: that his life
had been in the hands of those he bad injured, and had then been spared by them, when their
resentment was fresh and hot, and when he had done nothing to redeem his treason. He had, he
thought, reconciled himself to the cause of La Vendee; but still he felt that he could not
dare to look on Larochejaquelin as other than an enemy.

Denot started back as he recognized his visitor, and Henri's first object was to close and
re-bolt the door, so that their interview might not be interrupted. "Adolphe," he said, in
a voice intended to express all the tenderness which he felt, "I am delighted to have found you."

Denot had rushed to a miserable deal table which stood near his bed, and seized his sword,
which stood upon it; and now stood armed and ready for assault, opposite to the man who loved
him so dearly. His figure and appearance had always been singular, but now it was more so than
ever. He had been sleeping in his clothes, and he had that peculiar look of discomfort which
always accompanies such rest. His black, elfish, uncombed locks, had not been cut since he
left Durbelliere, and his beard for many days had not been shorn. He was wretchedly thin and
gaunt; indeed, his hollow, yellow cheeks, and cadaverous jaws, almost told a tale of utter
starvation. Across his face he had an ugly cicatrice, not the relic of any honourable wound,
but given him by the Chevalier's stick, when he struck him in the parlour at Durbelliere. Nothing
could be more wretched than his appearance; but the most lamentable thing of all, was the wild
wandering of his eyes, which too plainly told that the mind was not master of itself.

Henri was awe-stricken, and cut to the heart. What was he to say to the poor wretch, who stood
there upon his guard, glaring at him with those wild eyes from behind his sword! Besides, how
was he to defend himself if he were attacked?

"Adolphe," he said, "why do you raise your sword against your friend? Don't you see that I
have come as your friend: don't you see that I have no sword?"

The other hesitated for a moment, with the weapon still raised as though for defence; and then
flinging it behind him on the floor, exclaimed: "There, there--you may kill me, if you will,"
and having said so, he threw himself on the bed, and sobbed aloud, and wailed like an infant.

Henri knelt down on the floor, by the side of the low wooden stretcher, and putting his arm
over Adolphe's shoulder, thought for a while what he could say to comfort the crushed spirit
of the poor wretch, whose insanity had not the usual effect of protecting him from misery.
It occurred to him that his late achievements, as leader of the Breton peasants, in which,
at any rate, he had been successful, would be the subject at present most agreeable to him,
and he determined, therefore, to question him as to what he had done.

"Come, Adolphe," he said, "get up; we have much to say to each other, my friend. I have heard
much of what you have done here, in Laval and in Brittany. You have been of great service to
us; but we must act together for the future. Of course you know that there are 80,000 Vendeans
on this side of the river: men, women, and children together."

For some minutes Denot still lay with his face buried in the bed, without answering, and Henri
knelt beside him in silence, trying to comfort him rather by the pressure of his hand, Than
by the sound of his voice; but then he raised himself up, and sitting erect, with his face
turned away from his friend, he said:

"It's no use for you to try to speak of what I have done in Brittany, when we both know that
your heart is full of what I did in Poitou."

"By the God of heaven, from whom I hope for mercy," said Henri, solemnly, "I have freely, entirely
forgiven you all cause of anger I ever had against you."

Denot still sat with his face averted, and he withdrew his hand from Henri's grasp, as he muttered
between his teeth: "I have not asked for forgiveness; I do not want forgiveness;" and then
starting up on his feet, he exclaimed almost with a shriek: "How dare you to talk to me, Sir,
of forgiveness? Forgiveness! I suppose you think I have nothing to forgive! I suppose you think
I have no injuries which rankle in my breast! A broken heart is nothing! Shattered ambition
is nothing! A tortured, lingering, wretched life is nothing! I suppose you will offer me your
pity next; but know, Sir, that I despise both your forgiveness and your pity."

"I will offer you nothing but my friendship, Adolphe," said Henri. "You will not refuse my
friendship, will you? We were brothers always, you know; at least in affection."

"Brothers always! No, we were never brothers: we never, never can be brothers," screamed the
poor madman through his closed teeth. "Oh! if we could have been brothers; if--if we could
be brothers!" and the long cherished idea, which, in his frenzy, he even yet had hardly quite
abandoned, flashed across his brain, and softened his temper.

"We can at any rate be friends," said Henri, approaching him, and again taking his hand. "Come,
Adolphe, sit down by me, and let us talk quietly of these things."

"There are some things," said he, in a more composed manner, "of which a man can't very well
talk quietly. A man can't very well talk quietly of hell-fire, when he's in the middle of it.
Now, I'm in the very hottest of hell-fire at this moment. How do you think I can bear to look
at you, without sinking into cinders at your feet?"

Henri was again silent for a time, for he did not know what to say to comfort the afflicted
man; but, after a while, Denot himself continued speaking.

"I know that I have been a traitor--a base, ignoble, wretched traitor. I know it; you know
it; she knows it"; and as he confessed his wretchedness, he put his bony hand to his forehead,
and pushing back his long matted hair, showed more clearly than he had yet done the ineffable
marks of bitter sadness, which a few months had graven on his face. "All La Vendee knows it,"
continued he; "but no one knows the grief, the sorrow, the wretched sorrow, which drove me
to madness, and made me become the thing I am. I know it though, and feel it here," and he
put his hand on his heart, and looked into his companion's face with a melancholy gaze, which
would have softened the anger of a sterner man than Henri Larochejaquelin.

"My poor, poor Adolphe," said Henri, moving himself close to Denot's side, and putting his
arm round his neck and embracing him. "We all know how you have suffered. We know--we always
knew, it wasn't your proper self that turned against the cause you loved so well; but, Adolphe,
we won't talk of these things now."

"You just now said we must talk of them, and you were quite right. After what has passed, you
and I cannot meet without having much to say," and again the madman jumped to his feet; and
as he paced up and down the room, his fiercer humour again came upon him. "Henri," he exclaimed;
and as he spoke he stood still, close to the other, "Henri, why don't you avenge your sister's
honour? Why don't you punish the dishonour which I brought on your father's hoary head? Henri,
I say, why don't you seize by the throat the wretched traitor who brought desolation and destruction
into your family?" and he stretched out his long gaunt neck, as though he expected that Larochejaquelin
would rise from his bed, and take him at his word.

Henri felt that it was useless to endeavour to reason with him, or to answer the raving of
his madness, but he still hoped, that by a mixture of firmness and gentleness, he might yet
take him away from his present miserable dwelling, and by degrees bring him back to a happier
state of mind. The difficulties in his way, however, were very great; for he knew how serious
would be the danger and folly of leading him again into Agatha's presence.

"Nonsense, Adolphe," said he. "Why do you talk to your friend of vengeance? Come, take up your
sword, and come away. This is a cold, damp place; and besides, we both want refreshment before
our next day's work. Before six hours are gone, the republican army will be near Laval, and
you and I must be prepared to meet them," and he picked up Denot's sword, and handed him his
cap, and took his arm within his own, as though to lead him at once out of the room.

"And where are you going to?" said Denot, hesitating, but not refusing to go.

"Why, first, we'll go to the guard-house, and I'll show you a few of our picked men, who are
there on duty; real dare-devils, who care no more for a blue than they do for a black-beetle;
and then we'll go to the Angers gate. It's there that Lechelle will show himself; and then--and
then--why, then we'll go home, and get some breakfast, for it will be nearly time for us to
go to horse."

"Go home!" said Denot; "where's home?"

"Do you know the big stone house, with the square windows, near the market-house?"

"Yes, I know it: but tell me, Henri: who are there? I mean of your own people, you know--the
Durbelliere people?"

"Why, we're all there, Adolphe--Marie, and Victorine, and Charles, and Agatha, and my father
and all. Poor Charles! You've heard of his state, Adolphe?"

"Yes, yes, I heard. I wish it had been me--I wish, with all my heart, it had been me," and
then he paused a while; and again laying down his sword and cap, he said "Henri, you're an
angel; I'm sure you are an angel; but all are not like you. I will not go with you now; but
if you'll let me, I'll fight close by your side this day."

"You shall, Adolphe, you shall; up or down we'll not leave each other for a moment; but you
must come with me, indeed you must. We should be sure to miss each other if we parted."

"I'll meet you at the gate, Henri, but I will not go with you. All men are not like you. Do
you think that I could show myself to your father, and to de Lescure? Don't I know how their
eyes would look on me? Don't I feel it now?" and again it seemed as though he were about to
relapse into his frenzy; and then he continued speaking very gently, almost in a whisper: "Does
de Lescure ever talk about the bridge of Saumur?"

Now Henri, to this day, had never heard a word of the want of courage which Denot had shown
in the passage of the bridge of Saumur. No one but de Lescure had noticed it; and though he
certainly had never forgotten it, he had been too generous to speak of it to any one. Henri
merely knew that his two friends, Charles and Adolphe, had been together at the bridge.

He had heard from others of de Lescure's gallant conduct. It had oftentimes been spoken of
in the army, and Henri had never remarked that an equal tribute of praise was not given to
the two, for their deeds on that occasion. He now answered quite at cross purposes, but merely
with the object of flattering the vanity of his friend:

"He will never forget it, Adolphe. No Vendean will ever forget the bridge of Saumur. We will
all remember that glorious day, when we have forgotten many things that have happened since."

Poor Denot winced dreadfully under the blow, which Henri so innocently inflicted; but ho merely
said "No--I will not go with you--you needn't ask me, for my mind is made up. Do you know,
Henri, I and de Lescure never loved each other? never--never--never, even when we were seemingly
such good friends, we never loved each other. He loved you so well, that, for your sake, he
bore with a man he despised. Yes: he always despised me, since the time you and I came home
from school together. I do not blame him, for he tried hard to conceal what he felt; and he
thought that I did not know it; but from the first day that we passed together I found him
out, and I was never happy in his company."

All this was perfectly unintelligible to Henri, and was attributed by him to the frenzy of
madness; but, in fact, there was truth in it. Denot's irregular spirit had been cowed by de
Lescure's cold reasoning propriety, and he now felt it impossible to submit himself to the
pardon of a man who, he thought, would forgive and abhor him. It was to no purpose Henri threatened,
implored, and almost strove to drag him from the room. Denot was obstinate in his resolve,
and Henri was at last obliged to leave him, with the agreement that they should both meet on
horseback an hour before daybreak, at the gate of the town, which led towards Angers.

When Henri returned downstairs he found Chapeau still seated on the lower step, and Plume standing
by, discoursing as to the tactics and probable success of the war.

"You found I was right, M. Henri?" said Chapeau, as he followed his master out into the street.

"Yes, Chapeau, you were quite right."

"And is he very bad, M. Henri?" said he, touching his forehead with his finger. "I suppose
he cannot be all right there."

"He has suffered dreadfully since we saw him, and his sufferings have certainly told upon him;
but there is every reason to hope, that, with kind treatment, he will soon be himself again;
but, remember, till after today we will say nothing to any of them about his being here."

It was now three o'clock, and Henri had to be on horseback before six; he had but little time,
therefore, either for rest or conversation. Henri and Chapeau hurried home, after having given
orders at the guard-house that all the men on whom they could depend should be under arms before
day-break; and, having done so, they laid down and slept for the one short hour which was left
to them of the night.

CHAPTER X

LAVAL

When Henri arose from his sleep, the whole house was up and stirring, and men and women were
moving about through the dark rooms with candles in their hands. They all knew that this would
be an eventful day for their cause; that much must depend on the success of that day's battle.
If they were beaten now, their only hope would be to run farther from their homes, towards
the coast, from which they expected English aid; but if fortune would once more visit their
arms, they might hope to hold their position in Laval, and in other towns in the neighbouring
and friendly province of Brittany. The gallant and cordial assistance which the Vendeans had
received from the strangers among whom they were now thrown, had greatly tended to give them
new hopes; and the yesterday's victory, which had been gained by the men called La Petite Vendee,
over the advanced troops of the republicans, had made the Poitevins peculiarly anxious to exhibit
their own prowess to their gallant friends.

Henri, Arthur, and one or two other Vendean officers, sat down to a hurried breakfast, while
Marie and Agatha moved about the room, behind their chairs, attending to their wants. Chapeau
had now too many of a soldier's duties to give his time to those of a serving-man, and the
sisters and wives of the Vendean officers had long since learnt to wait on the heroes whom
they loved and admired. De Lescure was already seated on his sofa, by the window, and his wife
was, as usual, close to his side. He had wonderfully improved since he reached Laval; and though
it was the firm conviction, both of himself and of his surgeon, that his wound must ultimately
prove mortal, he was again alive to all that was done, and heart and soul intent on the interests
of the war.

"Oh! what would I give to be but one hour today on horseback!" said he. "To lie pinioned here,
and hear the sounds of brave men fighting! To know that the enemy are in the very street beneath
me, and yet to be unable to strike a blow! Oh! it is fearfully tormenting."

Henri said something intended to comfort him.

"It is well for you to talk," continued de Lescure. "How would you have borne it yourself?
You would have fretted and fumed, and dashed yourself like a bird against its cage, till either
your senses or your breath had left you. Henri," he then added, in a calmer tone, "I feel that
you will be successful today."

"That's a most glorious omen," said Henri, jumping up; "I look on success as certain when predicted
by Charles, for he is the least sanguine among us all."

"But, Henri," said he, "take my advice, and don't attack them till they are close to the town.
You may be sure they will be ready enough to give you an opportunity. After having driven us
across the Loire like wild geese, Lechelle will not doubt his power to drive us also from the
streets of Laval."

It was agreed among them that de Lescure's advice should be taken, and that none of the Vendeans
should advance above a league on the road towards Antrames. It was already known that General
Lechelle, and his whole army, were in the neighbourhood of that town; and it was not likely
that, as he had pursued the Vendeans so far, he would remain there long without giving them
the opportunity they now desired, of again trying their strength with them.

As Henri prepared to leave the room, the little Chevalier rose to accompany him: "No," said
Henri, stopping him. "Do you remain with Chapeau today. Wherever you are, I know you will do
well, but today we must not ride together." As the boy looked woefully disappointed, he added,
"I will explain to you why, this evening, if we both live through the day to meet again."

He then kissed his sister, and Madame de Lescure and his cousin. They all of them knew that
he was going into the midst of the hottest danger, where the visits of death would be thick
and frequent; and they felt how probable it was that, before many hours were over, he might
be brought back to them dead or dying. He either made some sign to her, or else from a feeling
that she was dearer than the others to him, Marie followed him from the room. He said but a
few words to her, as he held her in his close embrace, and she answered him with but one; but
with that one she promised him, that if he returned safe and victorious from this day's contest,
she would no longer object to join her hand and fate to his.

Henri immediately went to the gate, where he had promised to meet Adolphe, and there he found
him on horseback, surrounded by his Breton followers, on foot. He had still the same wild,
gaunt look about him, which had so startled his friend when he first saw him; but there was
more of hope and spirit in his countenance, and he spoke, if he did not look, like a soldier.

We will now leave the warriors of La Vendee to obtain what success they can against the experienced
troops of the republican army--the men so well known in many a bloody battle as the soldiers
of Mayence, and will return and stay a while with the women and wounded man, who were left
to all the horrors of a long day's suspense.

For a considerable time they said nothing to each other as to the probable events of the day,
for they knew well that they could hear no news for some few hours to come. By degrees the
cold grey dawn of an October morning broke into the room, and the candles were put out. Any
ordinary employment at such a time was utterly out of the question, so they clustered together
at the window and waited for such news as chance might bring them from time to time. Annot
Stein, who was now living with them in the house, came in and joined them, and after a while
the old Marquis was brought into the room, and took his station at the opposite window to that
occupied by de Lescure.

The noises in the street were incessant. Soldiers on horseback and on foot; cannons and waggons
passed on without a moment's pause: the men shouted as they went by, eager for revenge against
the enemy who had driven them from their homes; and women mixed themselves in the crowd, shrieking
and screaming as they parted from their husbands or their lovers.

The morning air was cold and chill, but still de Lescure insisted on having the windows open,
that he might cheer with his voice the men as they passed below him, and that he might call
to those by name whom he might chance to know. His wife was astonished to find how many he
remembered, and to perceive that every soldier, as he passed, recognized the wan face of his
General, and expressed his sincere delight at again seeing his features.

"Well done, Forestier! well done, my gallant friend!" he exclaimed, as a tall, handsome man
rode by, who, from his garb and arms, was evidently an officer. He had, however, like many
of the officers, belonged to a lowly rank, and still looked up with reverence to those of his
fellow- soldiers, whose blood was more noble than his own. "You are never missing when strong
arms are wanted."

The man took off his cap, and bowed low to the saddle bow. Had he been born to the manner,
he could not have done it with more grace. "God bless you, General," he said, "God grant that
we may soon see you here among us again;" and a thousand loud clamorous voices echoed the wish.
A tear rose to de Lescure's eye, which none but his wife could mark: he knew that his friend's
kind wishes were vain; that he had now, personally, no hope except in death; and he could not
entirely repress a vain regret that he might live to witness the success of his party, of which,
since his sojourn in Laval, he had taught himself to be sanguine.

It was but a moment before the tear was gone, and his eyes were again on fire with enthusiasm.
"Ah, de Bauge--good de Bauge!" he exclaimed, as a friend of his early youth passed by, using
at the moment every effort to repress the wild clamouring hurry of his followers. "God prosper
thee, dear friend! Oh, that we now had but a score or two such soldiers as thou art!"

