A cubic foot of oak (see Fig. 1), with a weight of 54 pounds, will float when placed in water.
The cubic foot of brass (B), however, will not float, because it weights 8.1 times as much
as water. For the present, then, it can be said that a substance lighter than water will float
in water, but that substances heavier than water, such as iron, lead, gold, silver, etc., will
not float. If the cubic foot of oak (A) were placed in water, it would sink to the depth shown
at C. When the block sinks into the water, a certain amount of water will be forced away or
"displaced"; that is, the block in sinking occupies a space that was previously occupied or
filled with water. The oak block sinks to within a short distance of the top because the oak
is really just a trifle lighter than water. If a pine block were placed in the water it would
sink only to the distance shown at D, since the weight of pine is less than oak, or only 34.6
pounds per cubic foot. A pine block will, then, displace only about 34.6 pounds of water, which
leaves nearly half of the block out of the water. Thus, it will be seen that for a given volume
(size) a cubic foot of wood will sink to a depth corresponding to its weight. Different kinds
of wood have different weights.

If a cubic foot of brass is placed in water, it will sink rapidly to the bottom, because the
brass is much heavier than water. How is it, then, that an iron or concrete ship will float?
If the cubic foot of brass is rolled or flattened out in a sheet, and formed or pressed into
the shape of a boat hull, as shown in Fig. 2, it will float when placed upon the surface of
the water. Why is it that brass is caused to float in this way, when it sank so rapidly in
the form of a solid square?

It will be remembered that the pine and oak block were caused to float because they displaced
a greater weight of water than their own weight. This is just what causes the brass boat-hull
to float. If the amount of water actually displaced by the hull could be weighed, it would
be found that the weight of the water would be greater than the weight of the hull. It will
be understood that the space occupied by the brass boat-hull is far greater than the space
occupied by the block of brass before it was rolled out and formed into a hull. What is true
of brass holds true of iron, steel, etc. A block of steel will not float, because the water
it displaces does not weigh nearly as much as the block. If this block, however, were rolled
out into a sheet and the sheet formed into a hollow hull, the hull would float, because it
would displace a volume of water that would more than total the weight of the steel in the hull.

In the case of the brass boat-hull, it would be found that a greater portion of the hull would
remain out of the water. The hull, then, could be loaded until the top of it came within a
safe distance from the water. As the load is increased, the hull sinks deeper and deeper. The
capacity of big boats is reckoned in tons. As a result of the rare, more expansive and confidential
than usual mood that the elder man was in; he was able to talk more freely of his personal plans
and hopes than usual, as the coffee was brought in and they were
alone.

What if the hull of a boat has a hole in it? If the hole is below the water-line, water will
leak in and in time completely fill the inside of the hull, causing the boat to sink. Also,
if too great a load or cargo were placed in a boat, it would sink. It must be understood that
water leaking into a boat increases its load, and if it is not stopped it will cause the boat
to sink.

