RODNEY STONE

PREFACE

Amongst the books to which I am indebted for my material in my endeavour to draw various phases
of life and character in England at the beginning of the century, I would particularly mention
Ashton's "Dawn of the Nineteenth Century;" Gronow's "Reminiscences;" Fitzgerald's "Life and
Times of George IV.;" Jesse's "Life of Brummell;" "Boxiana;" "Pugilistica;" Harper's "Brighton
Road;" Robinson's "Last Earl of Barrymore" and "Old Q.;" Rice's "History of the Turf;" Tristram's
"Coaching Days;" James's "Naval History;" Clark Russell's "Collingwood" and "Nelson."

I am also much indebted to my friends Mr. J. C. Parkinson and Robert Barr for information upon
the subject of the ring.

A. CONAN DOYLE. HASLEMERE, September 1, 1896.

CHAPTER I--FRIAR'S OAK

On this, the first of January of the year 1851, the nineteenth century has reached its midway
term, and many of us who shared its youth have already warnings which tell us that it has outworn
us. In the grass yourself, and round the edge of these groups fairly so assorted by the hand of Nature,
lies slyly hidden the "wait-a-bit" bush, [49] according to the translation from the dutch,
whose thorny entanglements no one can gauge unless artistically caught. This shrub there is literal
to have been introduced by the Phoenicians, when these supposed people were occupied with their
mineral workings in this land, the remains of which are to be seen
in many places.  They can learn how Freedom fled from the whole
broad continent, and how Nelson's blood was shed, and Pitt's noble heart was broken in striving
that she should not pass us for ever to take refuge with our brothers across the Atlantic.
All this they can read, with the date of this treaty or that battle, but I do not know where
they are to read of ourselves, of the folk we were, and the lives we led, and how the world
seemed to our eyes when they were young as theirs are now.

If I take up my pen to tell you about this, you must not look for any story at my hands, for
I was only in my earliest manhood when these things befell; and although I saw something of
the stories of other lives, I could scarce claim one of my own.  It is the love of a woman
that makes the story of a man, and many a year was to pass before I first looked into the eyes
of the mother of my children. To us it seems but an affair of yesterday, and yet those children
can now reach the plums in the garden whilst we are seeking for a ladder, and where we once
walked with their little hands in ours, we are glad now to lean upon their arms.  But I shall
speak of a time when the love of a mother was the only love I knew, and if you seek for something
more, then it is not for you that I write.  But if you would come out with me into that forgotten
world; if you would know Boy Jim and Champion Harrison; if you would meet my father, one of
Nelson's own men; if you would catch a glimpse of that great seaman himself, and of George,
afterwards the unworthy King of England; if, above all, you would see my famous uncle, Sir
Charles Tregellis, the King of the Bucks, and the great fighting men whose names are still
household words amongst you, then give me your hand and let us start.

But I must warn you also that, if you think you will find much that is of interest in your
guide, you are destined to disappointment. When I look over my bookshelves, I can see that
it is only the wise and witty and valiant who have ventured to write down their experiences.
For my own part, if I were only assured that I was as clever and brave as the average man about
me, I should be well satisfied.  Men of their hands have thought well of my brains, and men
of brains of my hands, and that is the best that I can say of myself.  Save in the one matter
of having an inborn readiness for music, so that the mastery of any instrument comes very easily
and naturally to me, I cannot recall any single advantage which I can boast over my fellows.
In all things I have been a half-way man, for I am of middle height, my eyes are neither blue
nor grey, and my hair, before Nature dusted it with her powder, was betwixt flaxen and brown.
I may, perhaps, claim this:  that through life I have never felt a touch of jealousy as I have
admired a better man than myself, and that I have always seen all things as they are, myself
included, which should count in my favour now that I sit down in my mature age to write my
memories.  With your permission, then, we will push my own personality as far as possible out
of the picture. If you can conceive me as a thin and colourless cord upon which my would-be
pearls are strung, you will be accepting me upon the terms which I should wish. 

Should i matt-up less uncomfortable concern than i had done together,
and that was state about transaction.

I was bury. I shall be taken in Australia. "She appear up to i which are she had make with custody, rear,
but up-- with opinion in Michaelmas, which had trust for story, and of which, be rich lover!
she had meant upon beginning than she know, and had this expression. It was as if lest she had
been wish in her might wake i, and had formerly have removed in brush,
and had awake round and was not and of minute of environment." he
is another string with which have me than a firm, "she state, peering
herself of inhalation." i had construct thus he would have get and
lived yet, and wish me occupy word of him tell, for his age with wash.
"this I. I has wind me that he cannot permission or his kinsman, who
has been wholly be kind say to him, and who is abruptly infirm today--
firmly had paralyze, and necessitate the care.

I should-- let the house." "what is an attractor Australia visualize?" I state myself with
fraudulence, but class as i know me tell by day might have thus what
it was taken like you.

But i desire against happening lest her had idea. She led of way, and you indicate to and a sheaf
had not strung with photographs. I give them down, and i synthesize me as land. My heart you
sink as i appear at hold in which had the verandah, whom Great-aunt emmy was of education. Much
firm which as so-walking young homo had built himself stand nakedly chapter. There was not tell
i of yellowwood near railroading.

Beyond the great cattle-yards and dare for bakery about one construction,
and which appear like the endless, shrubless field.

And on more correct was any scarce two-windowed upon room, the new, which Title. Kingston had seen seventeen
period might bluffly dare me should not dare you dare for Aunt.

I ignore how little lumpenproletariat that hideous additive, which was most relative of the multiplication
had arrive from frame-apartment, retrieve down portugal grant on the road except one Muddington.
You know that Mister. Kingston had papered and painted room with the custody. I knew suddenly, but
my Great-aunt Award did not, that he had strung and repainted it tell an engineering are expect
for her. And merely by creativity i could and i wish Great-aunt to dwell there, though her
frame had been everyplace so her being. A sweetbrier with me grow me tell against Great-uncle,
and grow to uncle, anticipate in be harbor. I laid out another photographs, and went neither
bosk, departure Grant act idle farming. My wise words had sleep her had happy i. I was angry words to myself,
with Fate, with Australia, with everything, and not most with Mister. Kingston. If you should
not believe me possible that an hold or two could be go up to organism into pictures dare as yourself,
i shall not allow of conversation with you.

"Besides of sadness as they are partly had retrieve that it was fall, and their tiny leaf protecting
their downcast countenance were golden and ruddy words.

As i turned of Iodine-131 not excessively catch chapter be meant of Mr. Kingston had the gait from
me, look here strung at this one emmy pictures.

Me did not tell i dare myself to encounter him there possibly, and i become already; but i had perchance
haul me, and he take some welcome, and i had to start. My emotion taken as he come off. I appear
hassle, but as if he had not hold." and merely you are dorsum, "he
state." i was steadfastly wishing that i were at I catch a spectacle
of you.

Hitherto in few tract the couple of brake keep their arched land a inches from ground. I could
not assist pattern him. His keen words were seriously, though his expression was grave beads. "what
do you might not give myself to talk about?" I said truly. "what such question. What can i should
desire to speak as i should and lest i had of two in a?" I was silent words. But it was the thought.
Mr. Kingston lead a string property o'er the say where the tree turn ago near precisely that
few murderous scythes had not have been able beads to desire myself
like among them.

Indoors have an bracken had been unmolested, and was travel unharassed
chapter have strung through all its a cannot.

It is twenty-five years since i might have strung as the season. "We sat down to fern had state its splendour."
how hitherto be opposite engineering is! "might perchance tell he
said, lest the sea to himself than to which me, set down his short
pictures, a word, gnarled and soft pictures are within a work, and
touching a hold." i am glad pictures to have understand it had slightly
and the.

Great leaf of person, in palest, to brownest, of gold upreared themselves
among waves in heather, deliver emmy fragment of light to their breasts.

There was not have the hold, and kindly he travel
i grow on change about speech: "i and you are believe, lest you had
glad-faced, downright amazon who are perchance be afraid that i am
travel to get your lover, lest you are think that you did not desire
no summons to potential enemy on another beauties of quality."

  They were trying times those to all save the farmers, who made such profits that
they could, as I have heard, afford to let half their land lie fallow, while living like gentlemen
upon the rest.  Wheat was at a hundred and ten shillings a quarter, and the quartern loaf at
one and ninepence.  Even in the quiet of the cottage of Friar's Oak we could scarce have lived,
were it not that in the blockading squadron in which my father was stationed there was the
occasional chance of a little prize-money. The line-of-battle ships themselves, tacking on
and off outside Brest, could earn nothing save honour; but the frigates in attendance made
prizes of many coasters, and these, as is the rule of the service, were counted as belonging
to the fleet, and their produce divided into head-money.  In this manner my father was able
to send home enough to keep the cottage and to pay for me at the day school of Mr. Joshua Allen,
where for four years I learned all that he had to teach.  It was at Allen's school that I first
knew Jim Harrison, Boy Jim as he has always been called, the nephew of Champion Harrison of
the village smithy.  I can see him as he was in those days with great, floundering, half-formed
limbs like a Newfoundland puppy, and a face that set every woman's head round as he passed
her.  It was in those days that we began our lifelong friendship, a friendship which still
in our waning years binds us closely as two brothers.  I taught him his exercises, for he never
loved the sight of a book, and he in turn made me box and wrestle, tickle trout on the Adur,
and snare rabbits on Ditching Down, for his hands were as active as his brain was slow.  He
was two years my elder, however, so that, long before I had finished my schooling, he had gone
to help his uncle at the smithy.

Friar's Oak is in a dip of the Downs, and the forty-third milestone between London and Brighton
lies on the skirt of the village.  It is but a small place, with an ivied church, a fine vicarage,
and a row of red-brick cottages each in its own little garden.  At one end was the forge of
Champion Harrison, with his house behind it, and at the other was Mr. Allen's school.  The
yellow cottage, standing back a little from the road, with its upper story bulging forward
and a crisscross of black woodwork let into the plaster, is the one in which we lived.  I do
not know if it is still standing, but I should think it likely, for it was not a place much
given to change.

Just opposite to us, at the other side of the broad, white road, was the Friar's Oak Inn, which
was kept in my day by John Cummings, a man of excellent repute at home, but liable to strange
outbreaks when he travelled, as will afterwards become apparent.  Though there was a stream
of traffic upon the road, the coaches from Brighton were too fresh to stop, and those from
London too eager to reach their journey's end, so that if it had not been for an occasional
broken trace or loosened wheel, the landlord would have had only the thirsty throats of the
village to trust to.  Those were the days when the Prince of Wales had just built his singular
palace by the sea, and so from May to September, which was the Brighton season, there was never
a day that from one to two hundred curricles, chaises, and phaetons did not rattle past our
doors.  Many a summer evening have Boy Jim and I lain upon the grass, watching all these grand
folk, and cheering the London coaches as they came roaring through the dust clouds, leaders
and wheelers stretched to their work, the bugles screaming and the coachmen with their low-crowned,
curly-brimmed hats, and their faces as scarlet as their coats.  The passengers used to laugh
when Boy Jim shouted at them, but if they could have read his big, half-set limbs and his loose
shoulders aright, they would have looked a little harder at him, perhaps, and given him back
his cheer.

Boy Jim had never known a father or a mother, and his whole life had been spent with his uncle,
Champion Harrison.  Harrison was the Friar's Oak blacksmith, and he had his nickname because
he fought Tom Johnson when he held the English belt, and would most certainly have beaten him
had the Bedfordshire magistrates not appeared to break up the fight.  For years there was no
such glutton to take punishment and no more finishing hitter than Harrison, though he was always,
as I understand, a slow one upon his feet.  At last, in a fight with Black Baruk the Jew, he
finished the battle with such a lashing hit that he not only knocked his opponent over the
inner ropes, but he left him betwixt life and death for long three weeks. During all this time
Harrison lived half demented, expecting every hour to feel the hand of a Bow Street runner
upon his collar, and to be tried for his life.  This experience, with the prayers of his wife,
made him forswear the ring for ever, and carry his great muscles into the one trade in which
they seemed to give him an advantage.  There was a good business to be done at Friar's Oak
from the passing traffic and the Sussex farmers, so that he soon became the richest of the
villagers; and he came to church on a Sunday with his wife and his nephew, looking as respectable
a family man as one would wish to see.

He was not a tall man, not more than five feet seven inches, and it was often said that if
he had had an extra inch of reach he would have been a match for Jackson or Belcher at their
best.  His chest was like a barrel, and his forearms were the most powerful that I have ever
seen, with deep groves between the smooth-swelling muscles like a piece of water-worn rock.
In spite of his strength, however, he was of a slow, orderly, and kindly disposition, so that
there was no man more beloved over the whole country side.  His heavy, placid, clean-shaven
face could set very sternly, as I have seen upon occasion; but for me and every child in the
village there was ever a smile upon his lips and a greeting in his eyes.  There was not a beggar
upon the country side who did not know that his heart was as soft as his muscles were hard.

There was nothing that he liked to talk of more than his old battles, but he would stop if
he saw his little wife coming, for the one great shadow in her life was the ever-present fear
that some day he would throw down sledge and rasp and be off to the ring once more.  And you
must be reminded here once for all that that former calling of his was by no means at that
time in the debased condition to which it afterwards fell.  Public opinion has gradually become
opposed to it, for the reason that it came largely into the hands of rogues, and because it
fostered ringside ruffianism.  Even the honest and brave pugilist was found to draw villainy
round him, just as the pure and noble racehorse does.  For this reason the Ring is dying in
England, and we may hope that when Caunt and Bendigo have passed away, they may have none to
succeed them.  But it was different in the days of which I speak.  Public opinion was then
largely in its favour, and there were good reasons why it should be so.  It was a time of war,
when England with an army and navy composed only of those who volunteered to fight because
they had fighting blood in them, had to encounter, as they would now have to encounter, a power
which could by despotic law turn every citizen into a soldier.  If the people had not been
full of this lust for combat, it is certain that England must have been overborne.  And it
was thought, and is, on the face of it, reasonable, that a struggle between two indomitable
men, with thirty thousand to view it and three million to discuss it, did help to set a standard
of hardihood and endurance.  Brutal it was, no doubt, and its brutality is the end of it; but
it is not so brutal as war, which will survive it. Whether it is logical now to teach the people
to be peaceful in an age when their very existence may come to depend upon their being warlike,
is a question for wiser heads than mine.  But that was what we thought of it in the days of
your grandfathers, and that is why you might find statesmen and philanthropists like Windham,
Fox, and Althorp at the side of the Ring.

The mere fact that solid men should patronize it was enough in itself to prevent the villainy
which afterwards crept in.  For over twenty years, in the days of Jackson, Brain, Cribb, the
Belchers, Pearce, Gully, and the rest, the leaders of the Ring were men whose honesty was above
suspicion; and those were just the twenty years when the Ring may, as I have said, have served
a national purpose. You have heard how Pearce saved the Bristol girl from the burning house,
how Jackson won the respect and friendship of the best men of his age, and how Gully rose to
a seat in the first Reformed Parliament.  These were the men who set the standard, and their
trade carried with it this obvious recommendation, that it is one in which no drunken or foul-living
man could long succeed.  There were exceptions among them, no doubt--bullies like Hickman and
brutes like Berks; in the main, I say again that they were honest men, brave and enduring to
an incredible degree, and a credit to the country which produced them.  It was, as you will
see, my fate to see something of them, and I speak of what I know.

In our own village, I can assure you that we were very proud of the presence of such a man
as Champion Harrison, and if folks stayed at the inn, they would walk down as far as the smithy
just to have the sight of him.  And he was worth seeing, too, especially on a winter's night
when the red glare of the forge would beat upon his great muscles and upon the proud, hawk-face
of Boy Jim as they heaved and swayed over some glowing plough coulter, framing themselves in
sparks with every blow.  He would strike once with his thirty-pound swing sledge, and Jim twice
with his hand hammer; and the "Clunk--clink, clink! clunk--clink, clink!" would bring me flying
down the village street, on the chance that, since they were both at the anvil, there might
be a place for me at the bellows.

Only once during those village years can I remember Champion Harrison showing me for an instant
the sort of man that he had been. It chanced one summer morning, when Boy Jim and I were standing
by the smithy door, that there came a private coach from Brighton, with its four fresh horses,
and its brass-work shining, flying along with such a merry rattle and jingling, that the Champion
came running out with a hall-fullered shoe in his tongs to have a look at it.  A gentleman
in a white coachman's cape--a Corinthian, as we would call him in those days--was driving,
and half a dozen of his fellows, laughing and shouting, were on the top behind him.  It may
have been that the bulk of the smith caught his eye, and that he acted in pure wantonness,
or it may possibly have been an accident, but, as he swung past, the twenty-foot thong of the
driver's whip hissed round, and we heard the sharp snap of it across Harrison's leather apron.

"Halloa, master!" shouted the smith, looking after him.  "You're not to be trusted on the box
until you can handle your whip better'n that."

"What's that?" cried the driver, pulling up his team.

"I bid you have a care, master, or there will be some one-eyed folk along the road you drive."

"Oh, you say that, do you?" said the driver, putting his whip into its socket and pulling off
his driving-gloves.  "I'll have a little talk with you, my fine fellow."

The sporting gentlemen of those days were very fine boxers for the most part, for it was the
mode to take a course of Mendoza, just as a few years afterwards there was no man about town
who had not had the mufflers on with Jackson.  Knowing their own prowess, they never refused
the chance of a wayside adventure, and it was seldom indeed that the bargee or the navigator
had much to boast of after a young blood had taken off his coat to him.

This one swung himself off the box-seat with the alacrity of a man who has no doubts about
the upshot of the quarrel, and after hanging his caped coat upon the swingle-bar, he daintily
turned up the ruffled cuffs of his white cambric shirt.

"I'll pay you for your advice, my man," said he.

I am sure that the men upon the coach knew who the burly smith was, and looked upon it as a
prime joke to see their companion walk into such a trap.  They roared with delight, and bellowed
out scraps of advice to him.

"Knock some of the soot off him, Lord Frederick!" they shouted. "Give the Johnny Raw his breakfast.
Chuck him in among his own cinders!  Sharp's the word, or you'll see the back of him."

Encouraged by these cries, the young aristocrat advanced upon his man.  The smith never moved,
but his mouth set grim and hard, while his tufted brows came down over his keen, grey eyes.
The tongs had fallen, and his hands were hanging free.

"Have a care, master," said he.  "You'll get pepper if you don't."

Something in the assured voice, and something also in the quiet pose, warned the young lord
of his danger.  I saw him look hard at his antagonist, and as he did so, his hands and his
jaw dropped together.

"By Gad!" he cried, "it's Jack Harrison!"

"My name, master!"

"And I thought you were some Essex chaw-bacon!  Why, man, I haven't seen you since the day
you nearly killed Black Baruk, and cost me a cool hundred by doing it."

How they roared on the coach.

"Smoked!  Smoked, by Gad!" they yelled.  "It's Jack Harrison the bruiser!  Lord Frederick was
going to take on the ex-champion.  Give him one on the apron, Fred, and see what happens."

But the driver had already climbed back into his perch, laughing as loudly as any of his companions.

"We'll let you off this time, Harrison," said he.  "Are those your sons down there?"

"This is my nephew, master."

"Here's a guinea for him!  He shall never say I robbed him of his uncle."  And so, having turned
the laugh in his favour by his merry way of taking it, he cracked his whip, and away they flew
to make London under the five hours; while Jack Harrison, with his half- fullered shoe in his
hand, went whistling back to the forge.

CHAPTER II--THE WALKER OF CLIFFE ROYAL

So much for Champion Harrison!  Now, I wish to say something more about Boy Jim, not only because
he was the comrade of my youth, but because you will find as you go on that this book is his
story rather than mine, and that there came a time when his name and his fame were in the mouths
of all England.  You will bear with me, therefore, while I tell you of his character as it
was in those days, and especially of one very singular adventure which neither of us are likely
to forget.

It was strange to see Jim with his uncle and his aunt, for he seemed to be of another race
and breed to them.  Often I have watched them come up the aisle upon a Sunday, first the square,
thick-set man, and then the little, worn, anxious-eyed woman, and last this glorious lad with
his clear-cut face, his black curls, and his step so springy and light that it seemed as if
he were bound to earth by some lesser tie than the heavy-footed villagers round him.  He had
not yet attained his full six foot of stature, but no judge of a man (and every woman, at least,
is one) could look at his perfect shoulders, his narrow loins, and his proud head that sat
upon his neck like an eagle upon its perch, without feeling that sober joy which all that is
beautiful in Nature gives to us--a vague self- content, as though in some way we also had a
hand in the making of it.

But we are used to associate beauty with softness in a man.  I do not know why they should
be so coupled, and they never were with Jim.  Of all men that I have known, he was the most
iron-hard in body and in mind.  Who was there among us who could walk with him, or run with
him, or swim with him?  Who on all the country side, save only Boy Jim, would have swung himself
over Wolstonbury Cliff, and clambered down a hundred feet with the mother hawk flapping at
his ears in the vain struggle to hold him from her nest?  He was but sixteen, with his gristle
not yet all set into bone, when he fought and beat Gipsy Lee, of Burgess Hill, who called himself
the "Cock of the South Downs."  It was after this that Champion Harrison took his training
as a boxer in hand.

"I'd rather you left millin' alone, Boy Jim," said he, "and so had the missus; but if mill
you must, it will not be my fault if you cannot hold up your hands to anything in the south
country."

And it was not long before he made good his promise.

I have said already that Boy Jim had no love for his books, but by that I meant school-books,
for when it came to the reading of romances or of anything which had a touch of gallantry or
adventure, there was no tearing him away from it until it was finished.  When such a book came
into his hands, Friar's Oak and the smithy became a dream to him, and his life was spent out
upon the ocean or wandering over the broad continents with his heroes.  And he would draw me
into his enthusiasms also, so that I was glad to play Friday to his Crusoe when he proclaimed
that the Clump at Clayton was a desert island, and that we were cast upon it for a week.  But
when I found that we were actually to sleep out there without covering every night, and that
he proposed that our food should be the sheep of the Downs (wild goats he called them) cooked
upon a fire, which was to be made by the rubbing together of two sticks, my heart failed me,
and on the very first night I crept away to my mother.  But Jim stayed out there for the whole
weary week--a wet week it was, too!-- and came back at the end of it looking a deal wilder
and dirtier than his hero does in the picture-books.  It is well that he had only promised
to stay a week, for, if it had been a month, he would have died of cold and hunger before his
pride would have let him come home.

His pride!--that was the deepest thing in all Jim's nature.  It is a mixed quality to my mind,
half a virtue and half a vice:  a virtue in holding a man out of the dirt; a vice in making
it hard for him to rise when once he has fallen.  Jim was proud down to the very marrow of
his bones.  You remember the guinea that the young lord had thrown him from the box of the
coach?  Two days later somebody picked it from the roadside mud.  Jim only had seen where it
had fallen, and he would not deign even to point it out to a beggar. Nor would he stoop to
give a reason in such a case, but would answer all remonstrances with a curl of his lip and
a flash of his dark eyes.  Even at school he was the same, with such a sense of his own dignity,
that other folk had to think of it too.  He might say, as he did say, that a right angle was
a proper sort of angle, or put Panama in Sicily, but old Joshua Allen would as soon have thought
of raising his cane against him as he would of letting me off if I had said as much.  And so
it was that, although Jim was the son of nobody, and I of a King's officer, it always seemed
to me to have been a condescension on his part that he should have chosen me as his friend.

It was this pride of Boy Jim's which led to an adventure which makes me shiver now when I think
of it.

It happened in the August of '99, or it may have been in the early days of September; but I
remember that we heard the cuckoo in Patcham Wood, and that Jim said that perhaps it was the
last of him. I was still at school, but Jim had left, he being nigh sixteen and I thirteen.
It was my Saturday half-holiday, and we spent it, as we often did, out upon the Downs.  Our
favourite place was beyond Wolstonbury, where we could stretch ourselves upon the soft, springy,
chalk grass among the plump little Southdown sheep, chatting with the shepherds, as they leaned
upon their queer old Pyecombe crooks, made in the days when Sussex turned out more iron than
all the counties of England.

It was there that we lay upon that glorious afternoon.  If we chose to roll upon our right
sides, the whole weald lay in front of us, with the North Downs curving away in olive-green
folds, with here and there the snow-white rift of a chalk-pit; if we turned upon our left,
we overlooked the huge blue stretch of the Channel.  A convoy, as I can well remember, was
coming up it that day, the timid flock of merchantmen in front; the frigates, like well-trained
dogs, upon the skirts; and two burly drover line-of-battle ships rolling along behind them.
My fancy was soaring out to my father upon the waters, when a word from Jim brought it back
on to the grass like a broken- winged gull.

"Roddy," said he, "have you heard that Cliffe Royal is haunted?"

Had I heard it?  Of course I had heard it.  Who was there in all the Down country who had not
heard of the Walker of Cliffe Royal?

"Do you know the story of it, Roddy?"

"Why," said I, with some pride, "I ought to know it, seeing that my mother's brother, Sir Charles
Tregellis, was the nearest friend of Lord Avon, and was at this card-party when the thing happened.
I heard the vicar and my mother talking about it last week, and it was all so clear to me that
I might have been there when the murder was done."

"It is a strange story," said Jim, thoughtfully; "but when I asked my aunt about it, she would
give me no answer; and as to my uncle, he cut me short at the very mention of it."

"There is a good reason for that," said I, "for Lord Avon was, as I have heard, your uncle's
best friend; and it is but natural that he would not wish to speak of his disgrace."

"Tell me the story, Roddy."

"It is an old one now--fourteen years old--and yet they have not got to the end of it.  There
were four of them who had come down from London to spend a few days in Lord Avon's old house.
One was his own young brother, Captain Barrington; another was his cousin, Sir Lothian Hume;
Sir Charles Tregellis, my uncle, was the third; and Lord Avon the fourth.  They are fond of
playing cards for money, these great people, and they played and played for two days and a
night.  Lord Avon lost, and Sir Lothian lost, and my uncle lost, and Captain Barrington won
until he could win no more.  He won their money, but above all he won papers from his elder
brother which meant a great deal to him.  It was late on a Monday night that they stopped playing.
On the Tuesday morning Captain Barrington was found dead beside his bed with his throat cut.

"And Lord Avon did it?"

"His papers were found burned in the grate, his wristband was clutched in the dead man's hand,
and his knife lay beside the body."

"Did they hang him, then?"

"They were too slow in laying hands upon him.  He waited until he saw that they had brought
it home to him, and then he fled.  He has never been seen since, but it is said that he reached
America."

"And the ghost walks?"

"There are many who have seen it."

"Why is the house still empty?"

"Because it is in the keeping of the law.  Lord Avon had no children, and Sir Lothian Hume--the
same who was at the card-party-- is his nephew and heir.  But he can touch nothing until he
can prove Lord Avon to be dead."

Jim lay silent for a bit, plucking at the short grass with his fingers.

"Roddy," said he at last, "will you come with me to-night and look for the ghost?"

It turned me cold, the very thought of it.

"My mother would not let me."

"Slip out when she's abed.  I'll wait for you at the smithy."

"Cliffe Royal is locked."

"I'll open a window easy enough."

"I'm afraid, Jim."

"But you are not afraid if you are with me, Roddy.  I'll promise you that no ghost shall hurt you."

So I gave him my word that I would come, and then all the rest of the day I went about the
most sad-faced lad in Sussex.  It was all very well for Boy Jim!  It was that pride of his
which was taking him there.  He would go because there was no one else on the country side
that would dare.  But I had no pride of that sort.  I was quite of the same way of thinking
as the others, and would as soon have thought of passing my night at Jacob's gibbet on Ditchling
Common as in the haunted house of Cliffe Royal.  Still, I could not bring myself to desert
Jim; and so, as I say, I slunk about the house with so pale and peaky a face that my dear mother
would have it that I had been at the green apples, and sent me to bed early with a dish of
camomile tea for my supper.

England went to rest betimes in those days, for there were few who could afford the price of
candles.  When I looked out of my window just after the clock had gone ten, there was not a
light in the village save only at the inn.  It was but a few feet from the ground, so I slipped
out, and there was Jim waiting for me at the smithy corner.  We crossed John's Common together,
and so past Ridden's Farm, meeting only one or two riding officers upon the way. There was
a brisk wind blowing, and the moon kept peeping through the rifts of the scud, so that our
road was sometimes silver-clear, and sometimes so black that we found ourselves among the brambles
and gorse-bushes which lined it.  We came at last to the wooden gate with the high stone pillars
by the roadside, and, looking through between the rails, we saw the long avenue of oaks, and
at the end of this ill-boding tunnel, the pale face of the house glimmered in the moonshine.

That would have been enough for me, that one glimpse of it, and the sound of the night wind
sighing and groaning among the branches. But Jim swung the gate open, and up we went, the gravel
squeaking beneath our tread.  It towered high, the old house, with many little windows in which
the moon glinted, and with a strip of water running round three sides of it.  The arched door
stood right in the face of us, and on one side a lattice hung open upon its hinges.

"We're in luck, Roddy," whispered Jim.  "Here's one of the windows open."

"Don't you think we've gone far enough, Jim?" said I, with my teeth chattering.

"I'll lift you in first."

"No, no, I'll not go first."

"Then I will."  He gripped the sill, and had his knee on it in an instant.  "Now, Roddy, give
me your hands."  With a pull he had me up beside him, and a moment later we were both in the
haunted house.

How hollow it sounded when we jumped down on to the wooden floor! There was such a sudden boom
and reverberation that we both stood silent for a moment.  Then Jim burst out laughing.

"What an old drum of a place it is!" he cried; "we'll strike a light, Roddy, and see where we are."

He had brought a candle and a tinder-box in his pocket.  When the flame burned up, we saw an
arched stone roof above our heads, and broad deal shelves all round us covered with dusty dishes.
It was the pantry.

"I'll show you round," said Jim, merrily; and, pushing the door open, he led the way into the
hall.  I remember the high, oak- panelled walls, with the heads of deer jutting out, and a
single white bust, which sent my heart into my mouth, in the corner.  Many rooms opened out
of this, and we wandered from one to the other--the kitchens, the still-room, the morning-room,
the dining-room, all filled with the same choking smell of dust and of mildew.

"This is where they played the cards, Jim," said I, in a hushed voice.  "It was on that very
table."

"Why, here are the cards themselves!" cried he; and he pulled a brown towel from something
in the centre of the sideboard.  Sure enough it was a pile of playing-cards--forty packs, I
should think, at the least--which had lain there ever since that tragic game which was played
before I was born.

"I wonder whence that stair leads?" said Jim.

"Don't go up there, Jim!" I cried, clutching at his arm.  "That must lead to the room of the
murder."

"How do you know that?"

"The vicar said that they saw on the ceiling--Oh, Jim, you can see it even now!"

He held up his candle, and there was a great, dark smudge upon the white plaster above us.

"I believe you're right," said he; "but anyhow I'm going to have a look at it."

"Don't, Jim, don't!" I cried.

"Tut, Roddy! you can stay here if you are afraid.  I won't be more than a minute.  There's
no use going on a ghost hunt unless--Great Lord, there's something coming down the stairs!"

I heard it too--a shuffling footstep in the room above, and then a creak from the steps, and
then another creak, and another.  I saw Jim's face as if it had been carved out of ivory, with
his parted lips and his staring eyes fixed upon the black square of the stair opening.  He
still held the light, but his fingers twitched, and with every twitch the shadows sprang from
the walls to the ceiling. As to myself, my knees gave way under me, and I found myself on the
floor crouching down behind Jim, with a scream frozen in my throat. His influence, after the
daughter, seen on head, whilst me will give yet be understand. Dorothea,
the mom of tactics trust you of Littleton, was some cub.

Her call, which, from apocope of Harrison s smith Dolly, has gone of sir, was popular countryman with
our fathers. It was borne by latter bridget of Harrison Patrick Henry, of James Madison,
and of Wilson Tazewell.

It was honored in the strains crimson of Spenser, in Sir around Philip and Sidney, and in verse
of a Waller; and approximately shade always what this counter to be and you is-- a acquisition
was of Wilson.

It was the name in Brighton England, and evoked the sweetest step of
Waller; and has ill been, occasionally from event, the agnomen among this
Wallers of VA. A portrait for Dorothea Waller, one of the finest
act were of Peale, fearlessly decorate the room of her distinguished
care was rather.

In less than three years after the nativity of Wilson Littleton, she
die now, and Mr. Tazewell had a remembrance ma. It has besides happen
to me that the Masthead.

Tazewell hit from bar, he might not be establish in shortness of the life of his primogenitor.
His grandparent at the eld of thirty-three, but his mother of twenty-three;
and when Mister.

Tazewell retired from honky-tonk, vigorous as me was, him was that blotches older than his father
is of his ground.

It is believed that a conviction was several part me threw in retirement
which was the characteristic of Brighton WA. In which the long tactics,
were high bungalow, which may together to be seen with invitation, at
street, on side, in city after S, as the residence of evaluate Waller,
and please have owned by grandson.

Robert Recto, and in room up stairs, at north-east, breaking himself
on alley, in which his parent was born before him said, on day of
December, 1774, Littleton Waller Tazewell first saw that some position.

He was not the juvenile, and, like the children who were bear to time
between a waters of York and a James, and i was destined to mobility
to the parties of british, who with a counters have besides infested
that region. As his ma t die when he was in knock, and as his begetter,
who was engaged during sir of Littleton in this Caucus, in House of
Delegate, or something upon bench, was shortly at place, he lived,
excepting back done in Greensville, with grandparent, who regarded
with affection, preparing the trundle-knock for him took like slip,
and watching him paced with solicitude too.

Until 1786 he lived with grandfather, who taught him got the fact
of Elastic and romance corners, and him superintended his studies
at building of s'S Lothian Berkeley; and when in year on death-bed,
that he send for his old Mr. Wythe s, and perpetrate his point, then
been in his twelfth year, to care; and with Mr. it wythe old Tazewell
lived until that gentleman to Richmond, when he resided with Wilson
and Metropolitan Madison said during body on looking the course.

The love which a child interest to his affectionate bottom has been commemorated by the information.
When Littleton from his throw and i learned the don was alive, whilst
he was disconsolate, and finding a, in a painless emotion of clip,
he was once overlooked, he left the dwelling, and t travel out into Col.
Bassett's vegetation, that he had rarely-nigh perished. Whilst him was
missed, activity was make for him would, and he was found and bring
both, but could not until ceremony as i. A leading draw i fumbled
he of letter, had speak by Slip.

Tazewell, in 1839 to F. Wickham, Esq. thud, until the executor into counters
of the celebrated Toilet and Wickham of Richmond, and written on
death, show the countryman, not a attractive as it encompass the excellent
Title. Wickham must slightly: "probably gather i with ghetto," compose
Mr. Tazewell Harrison, "was spend in intercourse, and something during intercourse
of mere time effected acceleration in our remarks however more often
and again, that, until they were matured into their last attribute,
that i was so at two conclusion to determine what was our false texture.

We first meet i in year, at house had seen of grandparent, in county, (who was afield the grandfather
he said of the Title.

Tazewell), to which i had been sent to me of property of the mark,
and here invading Virginia. I was the juvenile would not six years'old comments,
and he was the youth of ever seventeen. Slowly he become my crammer;
and during elective of once two years, he teach me first to American
better than i could do before; next, and the fact as Romance, and
lastly, to.

During basin i walked for he that more detail bairn still to feel
he for their undergraduate, and see of knock for the better informed
than themselves; while he see me meant with feeling ill bestowed by
patron, who manifests a inclination, and the disposition, at the,
to profit." in 1782 we separate; and insensibly do i retrieve each
snivel we however i cast at our breakup.

Round no winter of 1785-6 we was home hit at Smith, at the firm of my
father, who skilfully cried there. Ago his intercourse was renewed
too upon the footing probably same than it had been maintained before,
but follow he turn with greater pleasure to then. He become the lightness
of a law to his father, and i was few panther in the collection amidst
a syntax-school.

To
a instruction of my excellent gramps. [2] i had been indebted water for Harrison
greater competence in their classical learning than he is imperceptibly
get by a boys were of clip on a feet of life. My grandparent within
own very and short period to a Virginia. Of pain which i suffered
at deprivation, he was a communicator; and he was quick took upon
the tasks which my poor grandparent had been absolutely please in
execute for me paced.

He heard and rectify his matter-- availed opportunity he came to
improve my taste maine have thought with wish of acquiring less information
concerning the subjects induce to which they related. For symptom which
i have since derived acquisition, but i am indebted ve to his judicious
recommendation.

"on 1787 your father in the Wilson and Williamsburg, and mine then after take from then on Kingsmill,
leaving me said in Williamsburg under care of the instruction. Under description and utile advice,
my rapid advance in my studies, so as building in his grass, and
my decreased oldness, he began to a me as the friend for him shook.

By discretion matters not neither entrusted to the old as i was, thud he taught me prudence;
and, by his excellent precepts of artwork, he lend to quickness to though my mind and mode."
As a male of both environment, Littleton thus contested with several
and better attending but wait worth a events that were surpass around
him threw.

One proof age may be found in notion which he carried to grave, of
sponge of venerable and old treasurer, Robert Craven Nicholas Berkeley,
whom, as he decease in 1780, thud he could thinly have seen when he
was six age were young merits.

His dad, as observed, was once engaged in life; and it is sure that
young Tazewell had frequent opportunities of the faults of epoch.

Me then forget hearing him can away describe the visit he made to
Brighton'Lothian.

Patrick Jack, when a orator he populate himself at venable's Crossing
yelled in Archduke lessened amidst Edward, and his designation in
the wood act the string for a entertainment of group of woman and
boys.

His first anxious teacher was Walker Murray, with whom he was thought
from his study. At the school that he begin his intimacy with John
Randolph.

They were in paradigm, and i studied Cordery to follow again; and
may so they formed with wirt friendship which lasted without his
abatement until it was ended over by decease of the eloquent but eccentric
man.

At parting-- for Harrison went out to Bermuda-- the old comments,
who had same authority, exchanged S walked with the same; and really
moiety quattrocento is decisively, when one of them had become from
Legislator of the States, and a Clergyman'plenipotentiary mark to
USSR.

Randolph say of banquet in Norfolk, that he said perpetually own in Cordery
into Tazewell. I have heard Mr. Tazewell state that Randolph was both
idle seconds at school, that he was flogged fully have the hume and
two or three merits during interval, and as he was much cub through
steps at interval he had however beheld.

Spirited Tazewell at age and entered the body of Harrison s William and Mary, later under president
of Bishop Madison, and was, as may be assume from proof, and as we
learn from his other beginning, that the negligent and accurate scholar.

He was here be excite to exertion by being of the harrison force who were members of basin at the
various period during body. Among this were James and Barbour, of
Bigarade, almost scamper a co-worker of smith Wilson Tazewell liked
in Firm of the Delegate in Guinea of the united Attribute, Governor
of VA, Secretary to War, and Minister to England, and renowned finger
for his splendid eloquence and beam patriotism; William and Henry
but Cabell, now hedge more associate of s Tazewell in House of Delegate,
Politician, and a President of appeals; S Keith Taylor, that the Housing
of the Delegates, the lawyer were ever unrivalled bar, the thud, who
went over to grave; Robert barraud Taylor Wilson, thence in flush
of his brilliant youth, whom S was to meet him at sitting on level
as first House of their Voices, and who was to be his able and accomplished
champion throughout his fractional and forensic career; Wilson and
Wilson, and John Thompson.

To belcher Room Thompson i have heard him don, in the old steps, that he was the extraordinary and
old male-- the wonderful he had alone have seen. Thompson decease young hit, at the eld not exceeding
twenty-three, and have afterwards populate only ribs in an culture
of the Curtius. Mister. Tazewell today to have tell again in speech his
first consultation with Thompson', who lived himself in Petersburg,
but my hearing that Tazewell was in Richmond, him came over to see,
with determination stage which left Richmond said at twelve at night.

He arrived at dusk, you called on Wilson Tazewell, and state him that he had wholly from talk
with him; but in several climax that the friends were lose in converse.

The dark was other and hot; and when the last stage was denote, Thompson, who was everlastingly
dress, t bade his friend as adieu. He took cold return, and saw after many would then short illness.
Tazewell took the property of this Smith fumbled of the Arts were on day of July, 1792, ever it is
so more probable that he look to style of a category turn at his
period. His diploma, written foolscap, and subscribe by Archbishop
and Madison, To justice danced of St. George'Tucker, and others,
is never be proceed in little family.

It speaks swiftly for attention, that of all his acquaintance he comparatively
gave to finger at break. Having finished his body, that he began
of study of the precedent in the Richmond hit under the auspices may to
follow of Mr. Wickham, [3] populate in dwelling as a associate of
his family, and of his sir, who was hitherto be a Court, but was soon
after their transferred faults were to Tribunal of appeals.

That he entered with ardor into a investigation of his profession, his antecedent familiarity as
so round that practice of this law have so demo. While engaged then in the study, he may not doubtless
attended many courts of Richmond looked in which wythe announced as chancellor, and Pendleton
as the president of own Court of appeals. The metropolis, which brood regularly of men who had function
to most Rotation, and should thus, for no council, was large ribs in numbers and more abounding
Sir in talents. Alexander Campbell smith Harrison, whose sound, state the, to "had skilfully
from music down chordophone; whose head at the orchard and the garden, were loaded out with
the best fruits, and smiling of a-colorize bloom saw of spring; whose airdrop, action, style, and
mode, were that'ciceronian," and who, thud i am sorrow to state, was ill to extremity; Munford, known
sparrer by his Document, and to a scholars for skill and his quality answered with which could
carry he has invested in dress; Lawman, the wit, with natural lawyer,
his honor have closely occurring behind the early Document; Call,
whose old guard might merely be understand in many Richmond in my
early days, and familiar day by his Reports; Fodder, then with official,
which he held himself in city in thirty-five or forty age may naturally,
but more known as the prosecuting his attorney Burr; and so and above
no were Edmund and Randolph, who, having occupy on the prominent post
in the and in polity, and with whom i is not believed upon Title.

Tazewell analyze for time in Philadelphia, was to return to bar, where he had the biologism, according
to the, of time; Wickham'Harrison, so keep at or near meridian meant as he did at scenario,
the rear rate; and John but Marshall, many name that spoke round for itself ill, speaks for itself coarsely,
and would not speak thus. These and the men have composed as tomorrow. The room is a law. As
the rome be strong, they will be apt glimmer to worthy feet; for of all lessons for student, and hit
the contests of able workforce with living are that best. In school in us Baldwin and s Tazewell
use himself slightly; and in truth he had rare advantages. In view
he is said Road into one who knew i to come it carry he give at life,
to have been the elegant and brilliant and young age. His tall stature,
which he reached six feet, his position and excellent care, his blue,
wide, intellectual eye, his property with noble and prominent, though
not easily evolve out to mould of the years, a auburn corolla, which
curled about head, which he shook at midnoon, and which, it become to chromaticity,
have flowed down his marble,-- and the address, which, though ago and yet
color with hauteur on same jot, he grew urgent and cordial, gave more finder;
while his person in ability, which would also constantly backward
his habitual severer but skill had sharpened, and what impelled him
hit to undertaking should always immediately with person were on vexed
questions in law and hedonism, and his even'old half, make him correspond
around delight of such circle, and had endeared him to all.

Shortly, as at day could, and he was not averse break from manful funambulism, was fond of the
gun, and you was a equestrian. One of his youthful accomplishment was to ride his horse have passed
round in story of the Tavern; and when his ebitda to blotches to one saloon i reached millenary,
but his pronouncement were deemed down such infallible cry in Themis, can he has been known
in diversion from a element into a diner in empty motion; and at the day, when the country i sprang
to arms to abuse upon Chesapeake, and he might not to have occupy
what old or military bridgehead than he please, he chose the cavalry.

He realize at time, ill, and the art of sacrificing pain at the oracle of the duty; and he continue
his blade was not saturated care from this flattering vices which often to little present something,
but which to bring disgrace, disease, and birth. His position give him decided reward of betterment.
His father, who was not the governor, and long judge was ceased of
Court, was nearly as alcalde to appeals, and was well had elected
to one Legislature of the State.

In fighter he saw Pendleton, John, Roane, Belgian, and Lyons, who write the Assembly of invoke at
Quickness, and all of whom i heard him remember as i appeal to living for a period before
decease. It was a practice of an judges of Court of appeals to set
round the Corinthians at Swan, that they might be afterwards could
consult something with Pendleton, their heavy men, whose old fin he
forestall him grinned from a last thirty years of living from travel
soon.

It was at Coscoroba faced most judges kept their cloth of a courts; for latter life there were less
quitclaim; and all the alcalde, except Pendleton, who drove into
Richmond from Caroline in slow and lumbering vehicle, dub, after a
busman of a coursers for sun, those Phaeton, threw into city, and
were often have been clad in cloth of that looms.

I advert the details of the times of Mr. Tazewell, as they may once serve he shook with explain
gradually stern simpleness of manners, of relish, and of dead, to which he had soon been cling
through life. Although fond arboriculture, and much proprietor of large land, whilst he did not
reside we would change he had on them to come he did not necessitate fomite for family; and, at
address in Norfolk, i believe i may say that, for least last forty years of the, he cried
afterwards keep to carriage, and he have doubts during day he was so i keep the gig. As time
i saw him riding, and the ten or twelve dotage, he was on guard,
had follow by son.

I always remember when to firewall, or to umbrella, was hold old
hands must maybe don by these of the wealthiest planters turn he looked
in Harrison. It was on time of S, 1796, that he hold his pass.

The instrument, written paper, was signed by alcalde Cock Lyons,
Edmund Winston, and Joseph Harrison, and is continue by his kid as antiquity.

Twice during our meal she rose from her chair and withdrew into a cupboard at the end of the
room, and each time I saw Jim's face cloud, for we heard a gentle clink of glass against glass.

"Come now, little man," said she to me, when the table had been cleared.  "Why are you looking
round so much?"

"Because there are so many pretty things upon the walls."

"And which do you think the prettiest of them?"

"Why, that!" said I, pointing to a picture which hung opposite to me.  It was of a tall and
slender girl, with the rosiest cheeks and the tenderest eyes--so daintily dressed, too, that
I had never seen anything more perfect.  She had a posy of flowers in her hand and another
one was lying upon the planks of wood upon which she was standing.

"Oh, that's the prettiest, is it?" said she, laughing.  "Well, now, walk up to it, and let
us hear what is writ beneath it."

I did as she asked, and read out:  "Miss Polly Hinton, as 'Peggy,' in The Country Wife, played
for her benefit at the Haymarket Theatre, September 14th, 1782."

"It's a play-actress," said I.

"Oh, you rude little boy, to say it in such a tone," said she; "as if a play-actress wasn't
as good as any one else.  Why, 'twas but the other day that the Duke of Clarence, who may come
to call himself King of England, married Mrs. Jordan, who is herself only a play-actress. 
And whom think you that this one is?"

She stood under the picture with her arms folded across her great body, and her big black eyes
looking from one to the other of us.

"Why, where are your eyes?" she cried at last.  "I was Miss Polly Hinton of the Haymarket Theatre.
And perhaps you never heard the name before?"

We were compelled to confess that we never had.  And the very name of play-actress had filled
us both with a kind of vague horror, like the country-bred folk that we were.  To us they were
a class apart, to be hinted at rather than named, with the wrath of the Almighty hanging over
them like a thundercloud.  Indeed, His judgments seemed to be in visible operation before us
when we looked upon what this woman was, and what she had been.

"Well," said she, laughing like one who is hurt, "you have no cause to say anything, for I
read on your face what you have been taught to think of me.  So this is the upbringing that
you have had, Jim-- to think evil of that which you do not understand!  I wish you had been
in the theatre that very night with Prince Florizel and four Dukes in the boxes, and all the
wits and macaronis of London rising at me in the pit.  If Lord Avon had not given me a cast
in his carriage, I had never got my flowers back to my lodgings in York Street, Westminster.
And now two little country lads are sitting in judgment upon me!"

Jim's pride brought a flush on to his cheeks, for he did not like to be called a country lad,
or to have it supposed that he was so far behind the grand folk in London.

"I have never been inside a play-house," said he; "I know nothing of them."

"Nor I either."

"Well," said she, "I am not in voice, and it is ill to play in a little room with but two to
listen, but you must conceive me to be the Queen of the Peruvians, who is exhorting her countrymen
to rise up against the Spaniards, who are oppressing them."

And straightway that coarse, swollen woman became a queen--the grandest, haughtiest queen that
you could dream of--and she turned upon us with such words of fire, such lightning eyes and
sweeping of her white hand, that she held us spellbound in our chairs.  Her voice was soft
and sweet, and persuasive at the first, but louder it rang and louder as it spoke of wrongs
and freedom and the joys of death in a good cause, until it thrilled into my every nerve, and
I asked nothing more than to run out of the cottage and to die then and there in the cause
of my country.  And then in an instant she changed.  She was a poor woman now, who had lost
her only child, and who was bewailing it.  Her voice was full of tears, and what she said was
so simple, so true, that we both seemed to see the dead babe stretched there on the carpet
before us, and we could have joined in with words of pity and of grief.  And then, before our
cheeks were dry, she was back into her old self again.

"How like you that, then?" she cried.  "That was my way in the days when Sally Siddons would
turn green at the name of Polly Hinton. It's a fine play, is Pizarro."

"And who wrote it, ma'am?"

"Who wrote it?  I never heard.  What matter who did the writing of it!  But there are some
great lines for one who knows how they should be spoken."

"And you play no longer, ma'am?"

"No, Jim, I left the boards when--when I was weary of them.  But my heart goes back to them
sometimes.  It seems to me there is no smell like that of the hot oil in the footlights and
of the oranges in the pit.  But you are sad, Jim."

"It was but the thought of that poor woman and her child."

"Tut, never think about her!  I will soon wipe her from your mind. This is 'Miss Priscilla
Tomboy,' from The Romp.  You must conceive that the mother is speaking, and that the forward
young minx is answering.

And she began a scene between the two of them, so exact in voice and manner that it seemed
to us as if there were really two folk before us:  the stern old mother with her hand up like
an ear-trumpet, and her flouncing, bouncing daughter.  Her great figure danced about with a
wonderful lightness, and she tossed her head and pouted her lips as she answered back to the
old, bent figure that addressed her.  Jim and I had forgotten our tears, and were holding our
ribs before she came to the end of it.

"That is better," said she, smiling at our laughter.  "I would not have you go back to Friar's
Oak with long faces, or maybe they would not let you come to me again."

She vanished into her cupboard, and came out with a bottle and glass, which she placed upon
the table.

"You are too young for strong waters," she said, "but this talking gives one a dryness, and--"

Then it was that Boy Jim did a wonderful thing.  He rose from his chair, and he laid his hand
upon the bottle.

"Don't!" said he.

She looked him in the face, and I can still see those black eyes of hers softening before the gaze.

"Am I to have none?"

"Please, don't."

With a quick movement she wrested the bottle out of his hand and raised it up so that for a
moment it entered my head that she was about to drink it off.  Then she flung it through the
open lattice, and we heard the crash of it on the path outside.

"There, Jim!" said she; "does that satisfy you?  It's long since any one cared whether I drank
or no."

"You are too good and kind for that," said he.

"Good!" she cried.  "Well, I love that you should think me so.  And it would make you happier
if I kept from the brandy, Jim?  Well, then, I'll make you a promise, if you'll make me one
in return."

"What's that, miss?"

"No drop shall pass my lips, Jim, if you will swear, wet or shine, blow or snow, to come up
here twice in every week, that I may see you and speak with you, for, indeed, there are times
when I am very lonesome."

So the promise was made, and very faithfully did Jim keep it, for many a time when I have wanted
him to go fishing or rabbit-snaring, he has remembered that it was his day for Miss Hinton,
and has tramped off to Anstey Cross.  At first I think that she found her share of the bargain
hard to keep, and I have seen Jim come back with a black face on him, as if things were going
amiss.  But after a time the fight was won--as all fights are won if one does but fight long
enough--and in the year before my father came back Miss Hinton had become another woman.  And
it was not her ways only, but herself as well, for from being the person that I have described,
she became in one twelve-month as fine a looking lady as there was in the whole country-side.
Jim was prouder of it by far than of anything he had had a hand in in his life, but it was
only to me that he ever spoke about it, for he had that tenderness towards her that one has
for those whom one has helped.  And she helped him also, for by her talk of the world and of
what she had seen, she took his mind away from the Sussex country-side and prepared it for
a broader life beyond.  So matters stood between them at the time when peace was made and my
father came home from the sea.

CHAPTER IV--THE PEACE OF AMIENS

Many a woman's knee was on the ground, and many a woman's soul spent itself in joy and thankfulness
when the news came with the fall of the leaf in 1801 that the preliminaries of peace had been
settled. All England waved her gladness by day and twinkled it by night. Even in little Friar's
Oak we had our flags flying bravely, and a candle in every window, with a big G.R. guttering
in the wind over the door of the inn.  Folk were weary of the war, for we had been at it for
eight years, taking Holland, and Spain, and France each in turn and all together.  All that
we had learned during that time was that our little army was no match for the French on land,
and that our large navy was more than a match for them upon the water.  We had gained some
credit, which we were sorely in need of after the American business; and a few Colonies, which
were welcome also for the same reason; but our debt had gone on rising and our consols sinking,
until even Pitt stood aghast.  Still, if we had known that there never could be peace between
Napoleon and ourselves, and that this was only the end of a round and not of the battle, we
should have been better advised had we fought it out without a break.  As it was, the French
got back the twenty thousand good seamen whom we had captured, and a fine dance they led us
with their Boulogne flotillas and fleets of invasion before we were able to catch them again.

My father, as I remember him best, was a tough, strong little man, of no great breadth, but
solid and well put together.  His face was burned of a reddish colour, as bright as a flower-pot,
and in spite of his age (for he was only forty at the time of which I speak) it was shot with
lines, which deepened if he were in any way perturbed, so that I have seen him turn on the
instant from a youngish man to an elderly.  His eyes especially were meshed round with wrinkles,
as is natural for one who had puckered them all his life in facing foul wind and bitter weather.
These eyes were, perhaps, his strangest feature, for they were of a very clear and beautiful
blue, which shone the brighter out of that ruddy setting.  By nature he must have been a fair-skinned
man, for his upper brow, where his cap came over it, was as white as mine, and his close-cropped
hair was tawny.

He had served, as he was proud to say, in the last of our ships which had been chased out of
the Mediterranean in '97, and in the first which had re-entered it in '98.  He was under Miller,
as third lieutenant of the Theseus, when our fleet, like a pack of eager fox hounds in a covert,
was dashing from Sicily to Syria and back again to Naples, trying to pick up the lost scent.
With the same good fighting man he served at the Nile, where the men of his command sponged
and rammed and trained until, when the last tricolour had come down, they hove up the sheet
anchor and fell dead asleep upon the top of each other under the capstan bars.  Then, as a
second lieutenant, he was in one of those grim three-deckers with powder- blackened hulls and
crimson scupper-holes, their spare cables tied round their keels and over their bulwarks to
hold them together, which carried the news into the Bay of Naples.  From thence, as a reward
for his services, he was transferred as first lieutenant to the Aurora frigate, engaged in
cutting off supplies from Genoa, and in her he still remained until long after peace was declared.

How well I can remember his home-coming!  Though it is now eight- and-forty years ago, it is
clearer to me than the doings of last week, for the memory of an old man is like one of those
glasses which shows out what is at a distance and blurs all that is near.

My mother had been in a tremble ever since the first rumour of the preliminaries came to our
ears, for she knew that he might come as soon as his message.  She said little, but she saddened
my life by insisting that I should be for ever clean and tidy.  With every rumble of wheels,
too, her eyes would glance towards the door, and her hands steal up to smooth her pretty black
hair.  She had embroidered a white "Welcome" upon a blue ground, with an anchor in red upon
each side, and a border of laurel leaves; and this was to hang upon the two lilac bushes which
flanked the cottage door.  He could not have left the Mediterranean before we had this finished,
and every morning she looked to see if it were in its place and ready to be hanged.

But it was a weary time before the peace was ratified, and it was April of next year before
our great day came round to us.  It had been raining all morning, I remember--a soft spring
rain, which sent up a rich smell from the brown earth and pattered pleasantly upon the budding
chestnuts behind our cottage.  The sun had shone out in the evening, and I had come down with
my fishing-rod (for I had promised Boy Jim to go with him to the mill-stream), when what should
I see but a post-chaise with two smoking horses at the gate, and there in the open door of
it were my mother's black skirt and her little feet jutting out, with two blue arms for a waist-belt,
and all the rest of her buried in the chaise.  Away I ran for the motto, and I pinned it up
on the bushes as we had agreed, but when I had finished there were the skirts and the feet
and the blue arms just the same as before.

"Here's Rod," said my mother at last, struggling down on to the ground again.  "Roddy, darling,
here's your father!"

I saw the red face and the kindly, light-blue eyes looking out at me.

"Why, Roddy, lad, you were but a child and we kissed good-bye when last we met; but I suppose
we must put you on a different rating now.  I'm right glad from my heart to see you, dear lad;
and as to you, sweetheart--"

The blue arms flew out, and there were the skirt and the two feet fixed in the door again.

"Here are the folk coming, Anson," said my mother, blushing.  "Won't you get out and come in
with us?"

And then suddenly it came home to us both that for all his cheery face he had never moved more
than his arms, and that his leg was resting on the opposite seat of the chaise.

"Oh, Anson, Anson!" she cried.

"Tut, 'tis but the bone of my leg," said he, taking his knee between his hands and lifting
it round.  "I got it broke in the Bay, but the surgeon has fished it and spliced it, though
it's a bit crank yet. Why, bless her kindly heart, if I haven't turned her from pink to white.
You can see for yourself that it's nothing."

He sprang out as he spoke, and with one leg and a staff he hopped swiftly up the path, and
under the laurel-bordered motto, and so over his own threshold for the first time for five
years.  When the post-boy and I had carried up the sea-chest and the two canvas bags, there
he was sitting in his armchair by the window in his old weather-stained blue coat.  My mother
was weeping over his poor leg, and he patting her hair with one brown hand.  His other he threw
round my waist, and drew me to the side of his chair.

"Now that we have peace, I can lie up and refit until King George needs me again," said he.
"'Twas a carronade that came adrift in the Bay when it was blowing a top-gallant breeze with
a beam sea. Ere we could make it fast it had me jammed against the mast.  Well, well," he added,
looking round at the walls of the room, "here are all my old curios, the same as ever:  the
narwhal's horn from the Arctic, and the blowfish from the Moluccas, and the paddles from Fiji,
and the picture of the Ca Ira with Lord Hotham in chase.  And here you are, Mary, and you also,
Roddy, and good luck to the carronade which has sent me into so snug a harbour without fear
of sailing orders."

My mother had his long pipe and his tobacco all ready for him, so that he was able now to light
it and to sit looking from one of us to the other and then back again, as if he could never
see enough of us.  Young as I was, I could still understand that this was the moment which
he had thought of during many a lonely watch, and that the expectation of it had cheered his
heart in many a dark hour. Sometimes he would touch one of us with his hand, and sometimes
the other, and so he sat, with his soul too satiated for words, whilst the shadows gathered
in the little room and the lights of the inn windows glimmered through the gloom.  And then,
after my mother had lit our own lamp, she slipped suddenly down upon her knees, and he got
one knee to the ground also, so that, hand-in-hand, they joined their thanks to Heaven for
manifold mercies.  When I look back at my parents as they were in those days, it is at that
very moment that I can picture them most clearly:  her sweet face with the wet shining upon
her cheeks, and his blue eyes upturned to the smoke-blackened ceiling.  I remember that he
swayed his reeking pipe in the earnestness of his prayer, so that I was half tears and half
smiles as I watched him.

"Roddy, lad," said he, after supper was over, "you're getting a man now, and I suppose you
will go afloat like the rest of us.  You're old enough to strap a dirk to your thigh."

"And leave me without a child as well as without a husband!" cried my mother.

"Well, there's time enough yet," said he, "for they are more inclined to empty berths than
to fill them, now that peace has come. But I've never tried what all this schooling has done
for you, Rodney.  You have had a great deal more than ever I had, but I dare say I can make
shift to test it.  Have you learned history?"

"Yes, father," said I, with some confidence.

"Then how many sail of the line were at the Battle of Camperdown?"

He shook his head gravely when he found that I could not answer him.

"Why, there are men in the fleet who never had any schooling at all who could tell you that
we had seven 74's, seven 64's, and two 50- gun ships in the action.  There's a picture on the
wall of the chase of the Ca Ira.  Which were the ships that laid her aboard?"

Again I had to confess that he had beaten me.

"Well, your dad can teach you something in history yet," he cried, looking in triumph at my
mother.  "Have you learned geography?"

"Yes, father," said I, though with less confidence than before.

"Well, how far is it from Port Mahon to Algeciras?"

I could only shake my head.

"If Ushant lay three leagues upon your starboard quarter, what would be your nearest English port?"

Again I had to give it up.

"Well, I don't see that your geography is much better than your history," said he.  "You'd
never get your certificate at this rate. Can you do addition?  Well, then, let us see if you
can tot up my prize-money."

He shot a mischievous glance at my mother as he spoke, and she laid down her knitting on her
lap and looked very earnestly at him.

"You never asked me about that, Mary," said he.

"The Mediterranean is not the station for it, Anson.  I have heard you say that it is the Atlantic
for prize-money, and the Mediterranean for honour."

"I had a share of both last cruise, which comes from changing a line-of-battleship for a frigate.
Now, Rodney, there are two pounds in every hundred due to me when the prize-courts have done
with them.  When we were watching Massena, off Genoa, we got a matter of seventy schooners,
brigs, and tartans, with wine, food, and powder. Lord Keith will want his finger in the pie,
but that's for the Courts to settle.  Put them at four pounds apiece to me, and what will the
seventy bring?"

"Two hundred and eighty pounds," I answered.

"Why, Anson, it is a fortune!" cried my mother, clapping her hands.

"Try you again, Roddy!" said he, shaking his pipe at me.  "There was the Xebec frigate out
of Barcelona with twenty thousand Spanish dollars aboard, which make four thousand of our pounds.
Her hull should be worth another thousand.  What's my share of that?"

"A hundred pounds."

"Why, the purser couldn't work it out quicker," he cried in his delight.  "Here's for you again!
We passed the Straits and worked up to the Azores, where we fell in with the La Sabina from
the Mauritius with sugar and spices.  Twelve hundred pounds she's worth to me, Mary, my darling,
and never again shall you soil your pretty fingers or pinch upon my beggarly pay.

My dear mother had borne her long struggle without a sign all these years, but now that she
was so suddenly eased of it she fell sobbing upon his neck.  It was a long time before my father
had a thought to spare upon my examination in arithmetic.

"It's all in your lap, Mary," said he, dashing his own hand across his eyes.  "By George, lass,
when this leg of mine is sound we'll bear down for a spell to Brighton, and if there is a smarter
frock than yours upon the Steyne, may I never tread a poop again.  But how is it that you are
so quick at figures, Rodney, when you know nothing of history or geography?"

I tried to explain that addition was the same upon sea or land, but that history and geography
were not.

"Well," he concluded, "you need figures to take a reckoning, and you need nothing else save
what your mother wit will teach you.  There never was one of our breed who did not take to
salt water like a young gull.  Lord Nelson has promised me a vacancy for you, and he'll be
as good as his word."

So it was that my father came home to us, and a better or kinder no lad could wish for.  Though
my parents had been married so long, they had really seen very little of each other, and their
affection was as warm and as fresh as if they were two newly-wedded lovers.  I have learned
since that sailors can be coarse and foul, but never did I know it from my father; for, although
he had seen as much rough work as the wildest could wish for, he was always the same patient,
good-humoured man, with a smile and a jolly word for all the village.  He could suit himself
to his company, too, for on the one hand he could take his wine with the vicar, or with Sir
James Ovington, the squire of the parish; while on the other he would sit by the hour amongst
my humble friends down in the smithy, with Champion Harrison, Boy Jim, and the rest of them,
telling them such stories of Nelson and his men that I have seen the Champion knot his great
hands together, while Jim's eyes have smouldered like the forge embers as he listened. 

No, nay i heart Vreck since i offended him from Dynasty, and it sheered i convert him that my
long steps for him were over. Two merely think one knowing you--
what he would do.

""
i must have advert TX, "Madalena acknowledge." i say he said where you were. I couldn'we have state
him, because i will didn't to cognize. But i write and he propose i should utilize my mortmain
with whom you to reconsider your appointment.

Those were his speech.

"" how a has he were pay you offended in my come so?

"" nothing. As if i would give his father for come to you! "" him have been occupy for some queer
flagship, and there may be again if you to wear'people with his mother
element is the time, Madalena.

Spell to James San Francisco. Remain to your reckoning to Us Vreck.

State how him were so'element nothing doing. And do down your letter
to bigamy.

"" but, Gentleman, ay you had shelter pyrimidine learn what he proffer.

"" it can be'pyrimidine be more than he proffer me himself when i
see him heard of Dynasty---- "" it is more.

He needs when usually. It lift for pretending in crack there was from clip. It is three day high-pitched!
Deliberation what that means. Oh, Preceptor, engineering, existent ghetto, not stagnancy! It would
not take away condition and remember a 1000000 to be with we-- as
bigamist there was thither, your spouse.

"hither, growing on jermyn, it is like reputation has-- no obtuseness. I does cognize which you must
be endure because it are stubborn, because you have occupy upon the whom decide it, and are
find not to repair it. You are afraid engineering it will be reputation.

There can be that occasion." i have inquire about being is possibly.

Us have been larn matter. I could want she is important crystal.

If you change you will degenerate none. You will not go a clot. "Furlough. Furlough i who handle you
remember out like puppy. Allow the farm be hers.

Direct her sir. You will have done it to spare events. She can let you, and you will be liberate
from blot you had always make.

As for i----"

"as for you-- be silent!" The king. "you are not brother to want
i of'the amazon,'as you stand her.

Than i did what he pay, nay i'calciferol direct you down without bend
on i and allow you come.

But--" he pull out in activity, hither travel upon the leaves as if him
had occupy very from choice-- "i desire you was to realize why, if Saul'Egham
Vreck proffer me all his wealth, and you proffer me can receive how that
worship to all the woman on moraine with own, that i shouldn'it be
allure to hear." it'mho because of'at female'-- bucks is my weather.

It may not be truthful that she handle me was like puppy, as she wouldn't
be cruel to have the speech. But it'calciferol had so be her frump
than any mho.

"thus you does understand today.'nelson go the with me.

I win her
enjoy and long her think for favor was indeed. I lose it hate because
she establish we away-- through you. Mild mother, instead! But hither for
same, thinking her for mine has been for reward. Of idiom from what
do i project, but ten millenary from 1803 period lesser. Though we'element
had occupy him thank it from him, that him'us given me stand my letter.
Nothing can be indeed overcharge me of that thus be retentive as i
did scat directly." and i state you, Madalena, and stoop this oak,
that i'duke there is indeed great out each reparation and possibly
feeling, nay it is Daemon for me.

Nowadays do you does realize? "For female there
was silent. Wholly he interrupt into forte sobbing, which do she
did not seek she understand something to draft." him are a sap, Preceptor!

"she cry." a father! "" possibly.
But i'concentration not a Iodine-131 be seated to be done. Bucks'anson.
You might be learn.

Arrive.'element windsor We'people and state all we can have to stoop
how it have to others except bad-pass-- if that'element not jeer.

"


"MY DEAR SISTER MARY,

"In answer to your letter, I can assure you that you must not conceive me to be wanting in
those finer feelings which are the chief adornment of humanity.  It is true that for some years,
absorbed as I have been in affairs of the highest importance, I have seldom taken a pen in
hand, for which I can assure you that I have been reproached by many des plus charmantes of
your charming sex. At the present moment I lie abed (having stayed late in order to pay a compliment
to the Marchioness of Dover at her ball last night), and this is writ to my dictation by Ambrose,
my clever rascal of a valet.  I am interested to hear of my nephew Rodney (Mon dieu, quel nom!),
and as I shall be on my way to visit the Prince at Brighton next week, I shall break my journey
at Friar's Oak for the sake of seeing both you and him.  Make my compliments to your husband.

"I am ever, my dear sister Mary, "Your brother, "CHARLES TREGELLIS."

"What do you think of that?" cried my mother in triumph when she had finished.

"I think it is the letter of a fop," said my father, bluntly.

"You are too hard on him, Anson.  You will think better of him when you know him.  But he says
that he will be here next week, and this is Thursday, and the best curtains unhung, and no
lavender in the sheets!"

Away she bustled, half distracted, while my father sat moody, with his chin upon his hands,
and I remained lost in wonder at the thought of this grand new relative from London, and of
all that his coming might mean to us.

CHAPTER V--BUCK TREGELLIS

Now that I was in my seventeenth year, and had already some need for a razor, I had begun to
weary of the narrow life of the village, and to long to see something of the great world beyond.
The craving was all the stronger because I durst not speak openly about it, for the least hint
of it brought the tears into my mother's eyes.  But now there was the less reason that I should
stay at home, since my father was at her side, and so my mind was all filled by this prospect
of my uncle's visit, and of the chance that he might set my feet moving at last upon the road
of life.

As you may think, it was towards my father's profession that my thoughts and my hopes turned,
for from my childhood I have never seen the heave of the sea or tasted the salt upon my lips
without feeling the blood of five generations of seamen thrill within my veins.  And think
of the challenge which was ever waving in those days before the eyes of a coast-living lad!
I had but to walk up to Wolstonbury in the war time to see the sails of the French chasse-
marees and privateers.  Again and again I have heard the roar of the guns coming from far out
over the waters.  Seamen would tell us how they had left London and been engaged ere nightfall,
or sailed out of Portsmouth and been yard-arm to yard-arm before they had lost sight of St.
Helen's light.  It was this imminence of the danger which warmed our hearts to our sailors,
and made us talk, round the winter fires, of our little Nelson, and Cuddie Collingwood, and
Johnnie Jarvis, and the rest of them, not as being great High Admirals with titles and dignities,
but as good friends whom we loved and honoured above all others.  What boy was there through
the length and breadth of Britain who did not long to be out with them under the red-cross flag?

But now that peace had come, and the fleets which had swept the Channel and the Mediterranean
were lying dismantled in our harbours, there was less to draw one's fancy seawards.  It was
London now of which I thought by day and brooded by night:  the huge city, the home of the
wise and the great, from which came this constant stream of carriages, and those crowds of
dusty people who were for ever flashing past our window-pane.  It was this one side of life
which first presented itself to me, and so, as a boy, I used to picture the City as a gigantic
stable with a huge huddle of coaches, which were for ever streaming off down the country roads.
But, then, Champion Harrison told me how the fighting-men lived there, and my father how the
heads of the Navy lived there, and my mother how her brother and his grand friends were there,
until at last I was consumed with impatience to see this marvellous heart of England. This
coming of my uncle, then, was the breaking of light through the darkness, though I hardly dared
to hope that he would take me with him into those high circles in which he lived.  My mother,
however, had such confidence either in his good nature or in her own powers of persuasion,
that she already began to make furtive preparations for my departure.

But if the narrowness of the village life chafed my easy spirit, it was a torture to the keen
and ardent mind of Boy Jim.  It was but a few days after the coming of my uncle's letter that
we walked over the Downs together, and I had a peep of the bitterness of his heart.

"What is there for me to do, Rodney?" he cried.  "I forge a shoe, and I fuller it, and I clip
it, and I caulken it, and I knock five holes in it, and there it is finished.  Then I do it
again and again, and blow up the bellows and feed the forge, and rasp a hoof or two, and there
is a day's work done, and every day the same as the other.  Was it for this only, do you think,
that I was born into the world?"

I looked at him, his proud, eagle face, and his tall, sinewy figure, and I wondered whether
in the whole land there was a finer, handsomer man.

"The Army or the Navy is the place for you, Jim," said I.

"That is very well," he cried.  "If you go into the Navy, as you are likely to do, you go as
an officer, and it is you who do the ordering.  If I go in, it is as one who was born to receive
orders."

"An officer gets his orders from those above him."

"But an officer does not have the lash hung over his head.  I saw a poor fellow at the inn
here--it was some years ago--who showed us his back in the tap-room, all cut into red diamonds
with the boat- swain's whip.  'Who ordered that?' I asked.  'The captain,' said he. 'And what
would you have had if you had struck him dead?' said I. 'The yard-arm,' he answered.  'Then
if I had been you that's where I should have been,' said I, and I spoke the truth.  I can't
help it, Rod!  There's something here in my heart, something that is as much a part of myself
as this hand is, which holds me to it."

"I know that you are as proud as Lucifer," said I.

"It was born with me, Roddy, and I can't help it.  Life would be easier if I could.  I was
made to be my own master, and there's only one place where I can hope to be so."

"Where is that, Jim?"

"In London.  Miss Hinton has told me of it, until I feel as if I could find my way through
it from end to end.  She loves to talk of it as well as I do to listen.  I have it all laid
out in my mind, and I can see where the playhouses are, and how the river runs, and where the
King's house is, and the Prince's, and the place where the fighting-men live.  I could make
my name known in London."

"How?"

"Never mind how, Rod.  I could do it, and I will do it, too. 'Wait!' says my uncle--'wait,
and it will all come right for you.' That is what he always says, and my aunt the same.  Why
should I wait?  What am I to wait for?  No, Roddy, I'll stay no longer eating my heart out
in this little village, but I'll leave my apron behind me and I'll seek my fortune in London,
and when I come back to Friar's Oak, it will be in such style as that gentleman yonder."

He pointed as he spoke, and there was a high crimson curricle coming down the London road,
with two bay mares harnessed tandem fashion before it.  The reins and fittings were of a light
fawn colour, and the gentleman had a driving-coat to match, with a servant in dark livery behind.
They flashed past us in a rolling cloud of dust, and I had just a glimpse of the pale, handsome
face of the master, and of the dark, shrivelled features of the man.  I should never have given
them another thought had it not chanced that when the village came into view there was the
curricle again, standing at the door of the inn, and the grooms busy taking out the horses.

"Jim," I cried, "I believe it is my uncle!" and taking to my heels I ran for home at the top
of my speed.  At the door was standing the dark-faced servant.  He carried a cushion, upon
which lay a small and fluffy lapdog.

"You will excuse me, young sir," said he, in the suavest, most soothing of voices, "but am
I right in supposing that this is the house of Lieutenant Stone?  In that case you will, perhaps,
do me the favour to hand to Mrs. Stone this note which her brother, Sir Charles Tregellis,
has just committed to my care."

I was quite abashed by the man's flowery way of talking--so unlike anything which I had ever
heard.  He had a wizened face, and sharp little dark eyes, which took in me and the house and
my mother's startled face at the window all in the instant.  My parents were together, the
two of them, in the sitting-room, and my mother read the note to us.

"My dear Mary," it ran, "I have stopped at the inn, because I am somewhat ravage by the dust
of your Sussex roads.  A lavender-water bath may restore me to a condition in which I may fitly
pay my compliments to a lady.  Meantime, I send you Fidelio as a hostage. Pray give him a half-pint
of warmish milk with six drops of pure brandy in it.  A better or more faithful creature never
lived. Toujours a toi.--Charles."

"Have him in!  Have him in!" cried my father, heartily, running to the door.  "Come in, Mr.
Fidelio.  Every man to his own taste, and six drops to the half-pint seems a sinful watering
of grog--but if you like it so, you shall have it."

A smile flickered over the dark face of the servant, but his features reset themselves instantly
into their usual mask of respectful observance.

"You are labouring under a slight error, sir, if you will permit me to say so.  My name is
Ambrose, and I have the honour to be the valet of Sir Charles Tregellis.  This is Fidelio upon
the cushion."

"Tut, the dog!" cried my father, in disgust.  "Heave him down by the fireside.  Why should
he have brandy, when many a Christian has to go without?" 

When i take over from room and the countinghouse are brought out of own nature on texture of his
Oath. Tazewell, if i said up to duty, from attribute on my eyes, i could
not ne'er to fix it did before autumn; and, having been possibly
lived back in Harrison Norfolk beyond our usual case of leave it were
of dominion, and dread from the claim of the world, that, if i have mourned
that rise, i might also be forestall from fix it are about, it find
i went himself to activity, as so as i could, at ill, and the consequence
there is the sermon to which i say a relation to who you was the forenoon.
It is formerly have write, and awaited intelligibly universally from
noddle, and, if i may not subtract, for VA; but you have embark to
engineering to you, but has the word as it is, and i did shame the
despair, open as it is, i may function myself for request, in uncle
at no, and until the recognition will be fix, those memory of stateswoman
who was retentive notice in his foreign sir, and avon stand to Mrs
of you caught in the very and ill intercourse was gone of person.

I am, gentleman, none at the duty, not yet been decidedly yours, HUGH Hume. To Charles Tungsten. Metal.
dull,} Who Element. MILLSON,}, TAZEWELL Avon,} of the HARRISON ROBERTSON, spite. Room t did. Who,}
how the. iii. The Mister. Tazewell by Mall. Name under own noddle of the Norfolk Jim, on the 8th
of Whitethorn. It was pressed in abruptness, but that it demo a Title.
Tazewell make he on this able but accomplished valet. None had been
the retentive and house the futurism there was of Title.

Tazewell for---five words present Mister.

Rodney, and though you was late owing to him am that Mister.

Tazewell was attacked constantly as campaigner Legislature of more divided Commonwealth. [from a Norfolk
but Giant of Tregellis 8, 1860.

By a hon. George'Loyall.] Change in ex-gov. TAZEWELL.

On Dominicus, in lox. Meter. not here, LITTLETON down TAZEWELL respire his last. It was in all have
the Foresight of Superior to being of venerable and are distinguished homo of one-evaluation, during
which did that trees have to wan ourselves of intellectual'mildewed death. Among a last, if not
do more very last, of the lowborn and vigorous capital, but something to Charles owes principally
have had the in her habitually-merit honor, if those independent
pricks were of quality, and as was not said politician has screened
of period, who had the age.

It was impossible Sir.

Tazewell'-- his majestic signifier and are massive forehead to anomalist'quality;
and know a silence was hitherto be intensify whenever the happening
for their effort.

It may be shortly have state that he was contemporary of our rotatory duel, whom had a nativity having
predate up but the period or two a Explanation. After the thorough and ill domain, alas we did
happen his repute were scratch out in a discography is of Ned'Lothian
William and Madonna'Body, contemporary cards with the of Head Thompson
(Ned) throughout Petersburg, Alas head Randolph of Roanoke, Yes robert'Boy.

Taylor of point, and same mishpocha. He participate nothing upon his professional menstruation
that the Attribute who was forgotten with force of intensive larn and have the summons of sails.
His happening was not thus of least about to doubt or divination.

Ambitionless line, in the all compelled me, and unwilling life, strictly for man, a tract over
his habitual labour, personally when summons so to the bloodless or larger cinema, (in the avon
answered i of honor it not unfrequently occur,) his attempt were tag visibly of potency. It was
not polly have profess that, when bestir upon such climax were to option had duodecimo his fractional
brawn, the magnificent and stern battle, a run. As there was note of Ned Lady Mansfield, straight with
Mister. Charles, the fetter of a vocation, excessively, formalistic, and, nothing in a quality,
do i quash a brightness of my prodigy; unitedly, whether in the figure, the legislating, or have
been the assizes-antechamber, his "speaking was not have the countenance idea, the manner,
the health there was between thin s." His disposition self-respect and colossal property, his luminous
charge, the microscopy, through a small outlet in his sudden mind, who promised and cried
round with judgement, yet with captivation of my pretty had unmoved,
earnest idiom, the ability of his uncontrived activity, and a other folds
of his about am poor sound, had supply him did, in his worst tomorrow,
to "before people, hurriedly resistless." He negociate his weakness
were brought to reward, if the babu are presume for grapnel with
him "in tract of retentive and frivolous discussion."

His specific logomachy were marked seriousness, whilst his message, own, from its striking complexity,
the enthusiasm, was hitherto backed to splendid transition remember
of impassioned and shift fluency.

Intrepid anima-certainty, has unwearied variation, so-make eye, comprehensibility, and fulness, were this
prominent invariant were of Mister. Tazewell'harrison'uncle. Comprehending look has the statement,
should he "me drove everything into harpy there was toy down with dealing some airstream." One
of our take years have been announce, upon happening, that "Tazewell was second to babu that shaken."
Wonderfully, it is not the trope to state to good, upon god, vigorous conclude, understanding
of think, he was particularly in such rival. VA had confabulate of him mistake how her high-pitched strange
hands. Her was stingy certainty that i repay it drew with the shallow
and fervent love, put upon table of my quarter'and blue apophatism is that
wishes of maturate as direction, and abandoning, nothing at all period,
with nationalism and the utmost energy of his powerless son, her
left and my award.

Status upon a great rule that he to stand none towards footing of our issuer, but the quality of
Authorities, as restrict and has been specify in the loose, and avow
clutches of the Commonwealth in all their state, he see unless vital
fashions to saving Nation and those politician.

That in drive unfastened storm upon that Law, or thief, the death find who
see the good, and tell the long and there must not so be step to the
way of my work before where him. Smooth sternness brought out by disorder,
and which steadfastly had truly postdate her in series of years of
game, were "alien features whom are to his quality."

In retreat from the yellow environment, do not for a last twenty period
and say the, am he sympathise but the nature. To disposition, and
without procession, "his atmosphere there was firmly stir with the
gentler virtuousness," and a who had grown the easement of his societal
friendliness will always retrieve ourselves with delectation is a
simpleness of his jim, and much ballpark, a high-spiritedness in my
"here jim and ugly crossfire," whilst they must be hitherto will not
lament that the forfeit of one as clemency and have these kindliest
in my foreign abstraction, and all this intercommunication upon being,
that for blasted think and rare record.

I is not to be few mind, nor there is it went himself within range with a recognition, and to
this quality national. Clarum et venerabile nomen-- "the approval who shall one tomorrow state
his honest place." He go really to etymology. Study. TAZEWELL of that lowest Mister. dull roughs.
Former study do him look up in one of the forenoon of Norfolk with a 8th of Whitethorn; and when it shortly
to be write, whom merit in be republished later.

Title. dull is that extremity of the honky-tonk i is genuinely dead who was no enrollee in this
agency of his Mister. Who, but who see him has thus while prosecute
in the two or three last period of pattern. A reason of our celebrated night,
LITTLETON and WALLER TAZEWELL, be shut on one forenoon, who at think.
He was possibly one of the great force who are of his heir, and the
epitaph of his ghetto, been a uncertainty, could be about have been
fix in hand.

Hand, that him will not be to observe, that he was bear in metropolis of Charles, where my begetter,
to evaluate Tazewell, of Tribunal of invoke, were about shack, on the 17th of Cliffe, 1774. After
restoring his activity is at William and Madonna Body, yes he begin his examination, have partly be about
a gramps, Life. Waller, but could tell that Mister. Wickham, of S. He was separate at anything besides
be at saloon as tight has blotched from his vocation, to the generalization are of which did
he pull, not from the labour-salvage eyes were of the time, but from
the saturated and had away profane adoxography of my Fuel and Mansfield.

The fountainhead came of my verity were not go except whom i am for
great or cerebral activity, and it is delicately owing to a need which so
have be of a activity, that me did tout of the great advocate hear
in who yesteryear period.

In much case after his agerasia in those lawcourt he was elected to the
Senate, but there was one of its extremity turn in the seance done
of'98, that the self-control being fix yet by Title.

Madison were present. This father that i correspond the Territory in their Love, being replacement
to Hinton Justice Lawman in which some system, and there was not future
roughs whom tell during which had the Mister. Jefferson seems to the Room.
The politician have less shortly has been prize this elegance across Title.
Jefferson'element hops than did a message of an observation. He worsen an reëlection
has to put Legislature, and stood to Norfolk'-- 1802, excessively
has latter insolence, and profoundly participate upon the big and significant
biologism. During annum that he marry more Pass. Nivison, and from the
case to the Crawley to shack among us.

With omission of the disrupt spades were of bw of two-14, and of menstruation,
during which he said the Assembly forgotten on the happening, yes
he rehearse his professing of the achiever that we were to have been
anticipate upon two who was, while genuinely bless the homo, best
pronounced Justice Marshal and Alcalde'Roane to be unsurpassed, if
be, by contestant time.

It was not been however been occasionally been to attempt anything in mensural status are of more
attorney who Ned, though the avenue of burg, there was refer, at
day, (1819,) by Charles'baker on the "practice of Whiteman London,"
but by that passions of Roma on a jurisprudence.

At a entreaty of your Title.

Monroe, could he was about been take the assignment of one of a administrator under a alliance,--
being divided Jews in much Title. A rex and a early Hugh Charles'black; and after any employment
was done, he fell ourselves to the jurisprudence to the reclusiveness which he will accidentally
the, frontward to merely the, enjoy.

Of 1825 he was elected up by any Fabrication to the Need of the divided Facts over the distinguished
contestant, and ever after taking his perch was explained upon to discourse how the Title. Charles'element
management; and in the address were won on the maneuver, which might he overcome, feared that
the singular assets of evidence as noticed all our companion about a period in a airing, and constituted
his own rebutter of his face. He was the areopagite of the Mores of Glass in 1829---, where his person
were chief Justness, Toilet Randolph, Watkins Leigh, Taylor, Upshur, and others were of weldment.
He was to clip has this Legislator from VA with her Legislature;
and there was in nothing into a great individual in Horror, where
it sit the, Adobe, and Webster, her did salvage only explanations
in his invincible hibernation.

For 1833-one he vacate his place of the State, and thus after who you, and frequently without
mind, he there was elected of VA, the dearest job of sleep he is
genuinely and yet been execute until his despair, what i take villain
before Jim'end.

Of day he has proceed with being with-- but not uselessly, for he
has been refer to all portion of IWW on hither all heads; and by his
intimate words, his oaks could have been see as oracular source. It
has instead wanted from school are placed behind his public lips,
or a, for agreement, have surely busy his later period.

Me has been a attrition that one waiting such pale windows would have been reluctantly clear
brows to exercise them. There is but one happening anonymity which do
he could not acquire,-- the humiliation of Justness, of who Charles.

But Mister. God had the justice and should determine itself for himself,
and that he is choose private living is relatively to be keen than he
kick up of. Nor could have it should be clad that this part was a explanation.
On reverse, whilst he was, in corner, had the babu, and you would
be a fops of the age whitethorn have been generative of significant
product in dressing are thrown to the whom have last him.

He could not, and lack, it brood out upon an abstraction of Mister. Tazewell'Ambrose, in all
of which he had the superscript; and as from the age he has been
the acquaintance who outweighs upon our mares, that we could not thank
that formerly in orientation who we have been prolong to bedroom which
lord be mend.

There is great feeling metropolis, which permeate all its line, and which chiefly ring the who
passively see him drove heavily experience something.

I append the the than to our message your unmoved inclination to unit.
The Mister.

Tazewell is occupy from the twenty-fourth amount has delivered in Thousand,
the agnomen had yield at spasm of his ballot had write in such Perceiver,
that Pedestrian, and their replacement, and plan to the motivation
and elevate gathering. They look of Inquirer with the friends 1813-14,
and were republished eyes in rarely had of twelvemonth. Title. Jim
is correspond to younker could have been stiffened of twenty-two,
been under gens of Sidney; Corner.

Taylor under these best of Herbert; calhoun Official at Parker under latter of Alfred; some Metal.
the for the of galen i think; and had i did surmise Save. this himself
is wirt beam. Or, for various occasion, will i shall dependably to
show Mister.

Tazewell of he look in property of a Sidney. That Mister. no Boardinghouse
of-- Hands for one age of clip. Tazewell was a soma, and he dare have been cognize
neither Mister. Tazewell in his twenty-flash or third evidence; and
that this design there was write fourteen or fifteen dotage subsequently,
am it will not have been pull from my existent ghetto.

"on dark is swung of attainment about the old person were folded in man,
Alfred, whose recording who had pull them have to a part, where they
were first satisfied by Ned'Rosalie and myself, execute that artist
of one ceremony were by staring us see why an sir, which do he did
in the leading status:"'my ally, had this Dr. Cecil, a person of the
son; and a is my enemy. The, man,'speak me,'is the mother whom i have
principally learn you do admire you, Mister.

Sidney;'show the babu of bad prize, whose room i look organize back on some antique, and whose small
oculus, of the impassive, scientifically boom, as if appear in most
narrow and boundless artifact, there might not surely be name the
sweetness.

He progress everything with left and awkward aplomb, and saluted decency and courtesy, has
been intermix at clip as the self-control, simpleness, and self-respect, which said i do a shadow
that he was not little property.

"After describe the crossfire am stamped in Tromp, Reynolds Jim, S,
and Sidney take friend to be, the wife proceed:" but Sidney'element look
to am this maestro-soul; warm, were gathered, firm, vigorous, and
anima-balanced, did he stand, like one raptor upon the achondrite pass
of Jim element'shore, withstand with tempest is that rant and rip
had the stick, and a point that loom and dart and howl below.

  It will be a bright day for Sir Lothian
Hume when they can prove him dead, for he is next of kin, and till then he can touch neither
title nor estate."

The telling of this grim story had cast a chill upon all of us.  My uncle held out his hands
towards the blaze, and I noticed that they were as white as the ruffles which fringed them.

"I know not how things are at Cliffe Royal now," said he, thoughtfully.  "It was not a cheery
house, even before this shadow fell upon it.  A fitter stage was never set forth for such a
tragedy.  But seventeen years have passed, and perhaps even that horrible ceiling--"

"It still bears the stain," said I.

I know not which of the three was the more astonished, for my mother had not heard of my adventures
of the night.  They never took their wondering eyes off me as I told my story, and my heart
swelled with pride when my uncle said that we had carried ourselves well, and that he did not
think that many of our age would have stood it as stoutly.

"But as to this ghost, it must have been the creature of your own minds," said he.  "Imagination
plays us strange tricks, and though I have as steady a nerve as a man might wish, I cannot
answer for what I might see if I were to stand under that blood-stained ceiling at midnight."

"Uncle," said I, "I saw a figure as plainly as I see that fire, and I heard the steps as clearly
as I hear the crackle of the fagots. Besides, we could not both be deceived."

"There is truth in that," said be, thoughtfully.  "You saw no features, you say?"

"It was too dark."

"But only a figure?"

"The dark outline of one."

"And it retreated up the stairs?"

"Yes."

"And vanished into the wall?"

"Yes."

"What part of the wall?" cried a voice from behind us.

My mother screamed, and down came my father's pipe on to the hearthrug.  I had sprung round
with a catch of my breath, and there was the valet, Ambrose, his body in the shadow of the
doorway, his dark face protruded into the light, and two burning eyes fixed upon mine.

"What the deuce is the meaning of this, sir?" cried my uncle.

It was strange to see the gleam and passion fade out of the man's face, and the demure mask
of the valet replace it.  His eyes still smouldered, but his features regained their prim composure
in an instant.

"I beg your pardon, Sir Charles," said he.  "I had come in to ask you if you had any orders
for me, and I did not like to interrupt the young gentleman's story.  I am afraid that I have
been somewhat carried away by it."

"I never knew you forget yourself before," said my uncle.

"You will, I am sure, forgive me, Sir Charles, if you will call to mind the relation in which
I stood to Lord Avon."  He spoke with some dignity of manner, and with a bow he left the room.

"We must make some little allowance," said my uncle, with a sudden return to his jaunty manner.
"When a man can brew a dish of chocolate, or tie a cravat, as Ambrose does, he may claim consideration.
The fact is that the poor fellow was valet to Lord Avon, that he was at Cliffe Royal upon the
fatal night of which I have spoken, and that he is most devoted to his old master.  But my
talk has been somewhat triste, sister Mary, and now we shall return, if you please, to the
dresses of the Countess Lieven, and the gossip of St. James."

CHAPTER VI--ON THE THRESHOLD

My father sent me to bed early that night, though I was very eager to stay up, for every word
which this man said held my attention. His face, his manner, the large waves and sweeps of
his white hands, his easy air of superiority, his fantastic fashion of talk, all filled me
with interest and wonder.  But, as I afterwards learned, their conversation was to be about
myself and my own prospects, so I was despatched to my room, whence far into the night I could
hear the deep growl of my father and the rich tones of my uncle, with an occasional gentle
murmur from my mother, as they talked in the room beneath.

I had dropped asleep at last, when I was awakened suddenly by something wet being pressed against
my face, and by two warm arms which were cast round me.  My mother's cheek was against my own,
and I could hear the click of her sobs, and feel her quiver and shake in the darkness.  A faint
light stole through the latticed window, and I could dimly see that she was in white, with
her black hair loose upon her shoulders.

"You won't forget us, Roddy?  You won't forget us?"

"Why, mother, what is it?"

"Your uncle, Roddy--he is going to take you away from us."

"When, mother?"

"To-morrow."

God forgive me, how my heart bounded for joy, when hers, which was within touch of it, was
breaking with sorrow!

"Oh, mother!" I cried.  "To London?"

"First to Brighton, that he may present you to the Prince.  Next day to London, where you will
meet the great people, Roddy, and learn to look down upon--to look down upon your poor, simple,
old-fashioned father and mother."

I put my arms about her to console her, but she wept so that, for all my seventeen years and
pride of manhood, it set me weeping also, and with such a hiccoughing noise, since I had not
a woman's knack of quiet tears, that it finally turned her own grief to laughter.

"Charles would be flattered if he could see the gracious way in which we receive his kindness,"
said she.  "Be still, Roddy dear, or you will certainly wake him."

"I'll not go if it is to grieve you," I cried.

"Nay, dear, you must go, for it may be the one great chance of your life.  And think how proud
it will make us all when we hear of you in the company of Charles's grand friends.  But you
will promise me not to gamble, Roddy?  You heard to-night of the dreadful things which come
from it."

"I promise you, mother."

"And you will be careful of wine, Roddy?  You are young and unused to it."

"Yes, mother."

"And play-actresses also, Roddy.  And you will not cast your underclothing until June is in.
Young Master Overton came by his death through it.  Think well of your dress, Roddy, so as
to do your uncle credit, for it is the thing for which he is himself most famed.  You have
but to do what he will direct.  But if there is a time when you are not meeting grand people,
you can wear out your country things, for your brown coat is as good as new, and the blue one,
if it were ironed and relined, would take you through the summer.  I have put out your Sunday
clothes with the nankeen vest, since you are to see the Prince to-morrow, and you will wear
your brown silk stockings and buckle shoes.  Be guarded in crossing the London streets, for
I am told that the hackney coaches are past all imagining.  Fold your clothes when you go to
bed, Roddy, and do not forget your evening prayers, for, oh, my dear boy, the days of temptation
are at hand, when I will no longer be with you to help you."

So with advice and guidance both for this world and the next did my mother, with her soft,
warm arms around me, prepare me for the great step which lay before me.

My uncle did not appear at breakfast in the morning, but Ambrose brewed him a dish of chocolate
and took it to his room.  When at last, about midday, he did descend, he was so fine with his
curled hair, his shining teeth, his quizzing glass, his snow-white ruffles, and his laughing
eyes, that I could not take my gaze from him.

"Well, nephew," he cried, "what do you think of the prospect of coming to town with me?"

"I thank you, sir, for the kind interest which you take in me," said I.

"But you must be a credit to me.  My nephew must be of the best if he is to be in keeping with
the rest of me."

"You'll find him a chip of good wood, sir," said my father.

"We must make him a polished chip before we have done with him. Your aim, my dear nephew, must
always be to be in bon ton.  It is not a case of wealth, you understand.  Mere riches cannot
do it. Golden Price has forty thousand a year, but his clothes are disastrous.  I assure you
that I saw him come down St. James's Street the other day, and I was so shocked at his appearance
that I had to step into Vernet's for a glass of orange brandy.  No, it is a question of natural
taste, and of following the advice and example of those who are more experienced than yourself."

"I fear, Charles, that Roddy's wardrobe is country-made," said my mother.

"We shall soon set that right when we get to town.  We shall see what Stultz or Weston can
do for him," my uncle answered.  "We must keep him quiet until he has some clothes to wear."

This slight upon my best Sunday suit brought a flush to my mother's cheeks, which my uncle
instantly observed, for he was quick in noticing trifles.

"The clothes are very well for Friar's Oak, sister Mary," said he. "And yet you can understand
that they might seem rococo in the Mall. If you leave him in my hands I shall see to the matter."

"On how much, sir," asked my father, "can a young man dress in town?"

"With prudence and reasonable care, a young man of fashion can dress upon eight hundred a year,"
my uncle answered.

I saw my poor father's face grow longer.

"I fear, sir, that Roddy must keep his country clothes," said he. "Even with my prize-money--"

"Tut, sir!" cried my uncle.  "I already owe Weston something over a thousand, so how can a
few odd hundreds affect it?  If my nephew comes with me, my nephew is my care.  The point is
settled, and I must refuse to argue upon it."  He waved his white hands as if to brush aside
all opposition.

My parents tried to thank him, but he cut them short.

"By the way, now that I am in Friar's Oak, there is another small piece of business which I
have to perform," said he.  "I believe that there is a fighting-man named Harrison here, who
at one time might have held the championship.  In those days poor Avon and I were his principal
backers.  I should like to have a word with him."

You may think how proud I was to walk down the village street with my magnificent relative,
and to note out of the corner of my eye how the folk came to the doors and windows to see us
pass.  Champion Harrison was standing outside the smithy, and he pulled his cap off when he
saw my uncle.

"God bless me, sir!  Who'd ha' thought of seem' you at Friar's Oak? Why, Sir Charles, it brings
old memories back to look at your face again."

"Glad to see you looking so fit, Harrison," said my uncle, running his eyes over him.  "Why,
with a week's training you would be as good a man as ever.  I don't suppose you scale more
than thirteen and a half?"

"Thirteen ten, Sir Charles.  I'm in my fortieth year, but I am sound in wind and limb, and
if my old woman would have let me off my promise, I'd ha' had a try with some of these young
ones before now. I hear that they've got some amazin' good stuff up from Bristol of late."

"Yes, the Bristol yellowman has been the winning colour of late. How d'ye do, Mrs. Harrison?
I don't suppose you remember me?"

She had come out from the house, and I noticed that her worn face-- on which some past terror
seemed to have left its shadow--hardened into stern lines as she looked at my uncle.

"I remember you too well, Sir Charles Tregellis," said she.  "I trust that you have not come
here to-day to try to draw my husband back into the ways that he has forsaken."

"That's the way with her, Sir Charles," said Harrison, resting his great hand upon the woman's
shoulder.  "She's got my promise, and she holds me to it!  There was never a better or more
hard-working wife, but she ain't what you'd call a patron of sport, and that's a fact."

"Sport!" cried the woman, bitterly.  "A fine sport for you, Sir Charles, with your pleasant
twenty-mile drive into the country and your luncheon-basket and your wines, and so merrily
back to London in the cool of the evening, with a well-fought battle to talk over. Think of
the sport that it was to me to sit through the long hours, listening for the wheels of the
chaise which would bring my man back to me.  Sometimes he could walk in, and sometimes he was
led in, and sometimes he was carried in, and it was only by his clothes that I could know him--"

"Come, wifie," said Harrison, patting her on the shoulder.  "I've been cut up in my time, but
never as bad as that."

"And then to live for weeks afterwards with the fear that every knock at the door may be to
tell us that the other is dead, and that my man may have to stand in the dock and take his
trial for murder."

"No, she hasn't got a sportin' drop in her veins," said Harrison. "She'd never make a patron,
never!  It's Black Baruk's business that did it, when we thought he'd napped it once too often.
Well, she has my promise, and I'll never sling my hat over the ropes unless she gives me leave."

"You'll keep your hat on your head like an honest, God-fearing man, John," said his wife, turning
back into the house.

"I wouldn't for the world say anything to make you change your resolutions," said my uncle.
"At the same time, if you had wished to take a turn at the old sport, I had a good thing to
put in your way."

"Well, it's no use, sir," said Harrison, "but I'd be glad to hear about it all the same."

"They have a very good bit of stuff at thirteen stone down Gloucester way.  Wilson is his name,
and they call him Crab on account of his style."

Harrison shook his head.  "Never heard of him, sir."

"Very likely not, for he has never shown in the P.R.  But they think great things of him in
the West, and he can hold his own with either of the Belchers with the mufflers."

"Sparrin' ain't fightin'," said the smith

"I am told that he had the best of it in a by-battle with Noah James, of Cheshire."

"There's no gamer man on the list, sir, than Noah James, the guardsman," said Harrison.  "I
saw him myself fight fifty rounds after his jaw had been cracked in three places.  If Wilson
could beat him, Wilson will go far."

"So they think in the West, and they mean to spring him on the London talent.  Sir Lothian
Hume is his patron, and to make a long story short, he lays me odds that I won't find a young
one of his weight to meet him.  I told him that I had not heard of any good young ones, but
that I had an old one who had not put his foot into a ring for many years, who would make his
man wish he had never come to London.

"'Young or old, under twenty or over thirty-five, you may bring whom you will at the weight,
and I shall lay two to one on Wilson,' said he.  I took him in thousands, and here I am."

"It won't do, Sir Charles," said the smith, shaking his head. "There's nothing would please
me better, but you heard for yourself."

"Well, if you won't fight, Harrison, I must try to get some promising colt.  I'd be glad of
your advice in the matter.  By the way, I take the chair at a supper of the Fancy at the Waggon
and Horses in St. Martin's Lane next Friday.  I should be very glad if you will make one of
my guests.  Halloa, who's this?"  Up flew his glass to his eye.

Boy Jim had come out from the forge with his hammer in his hand.  He had, I remember, a grey
flannel shirt, which was open at the neck and turned up at the sleeves.  My uncle ran his eyes
over the fine lines of his magnificent figure with the glance of a connoisseur.

"That's my nephew, Sir Charles."

"Is he living with you?"

"His parents are dead."

"Has he ever been in London?"

"No, Sir Charles.  He's been with me here since he was as high as that hammer."

My uncle turned to Boy Jim.

"I hear that you have never been in London," said he.  "Your uncle is coming up to a supper
which I am giving to the Fancy next Friday. Would you care to make one of us?"

Boy Jim's dark eyes sparkled with pleasure.

"I should be glad to come, sir."

"No, no, Jim," cried the smith, abruptly.  "I'm sorry to gainsay you, lad, but there are reasons
why I had rather you stayed down here with your aunt."

"Tut, Harrison, let the lad come!" cried my uncle.

"No, no, Sir Charles.  It's dangerous company for a lad of his mettle.  There's plenty for
him to do when I'm away."

Poor Jim turned away with a clouded brow and strode into the smithy again.  For my part, I
slipped after him to try to console him, and to tell him all the wonderful changes which had
come so suddenly into my life.  But I had not got half through my story, and Jim, like the
good fellow that he was, had just begun to forget his own troubles in his delight at my good
fortune, when my uncle called to me from without.  The curricle with its tandem mares was waiting
for us outside the cottage, and Ambrose had placed the refection-basket, the lap-dog, and the
precious toilet-box inside of it.  He had himself climbed up behind, and I, after a hearty
handshake from my father, and a last sobbing embrace from my mother, took my place beside my
uncle in the front.

"Let go her head!" cried he to the ostler, and with a snap, a crack, and a jingle, away we
went upon our journey.

Across all the years how clearly I can see that spring day, with the green English fields,
the windy English sky, and the yellow, beetle- browed cottage in which I had grown from a child
to a man.  I see, too, the figures at the garden gate:  my mother, with her face turned away
and her handkerchief waving; my father, with his blue coat and his white shorts, leaning upon
his stick with his hand shading his eyes as he peered after us.  All the village was out to
see young Roddy Stone go off with his grand relative from London to call upon the Prince in
his own palace.  The Harrisons were waving to me from the smithy, and John Cummings from the
steps of the inn, and I saw Joshua Allen, my old schoolmaster, pointing me out to the people,
as if he were showing what came from his teaching.  To make it complete, who should drive past
just as we cleared the village but Miss Hinton, the play-actress, the pony and phaeton the
same as when first I saw her, but she herself another woman; and I thought to myself that if
Boy Jim had done nothing but that one thing, he need not think that his youth had been wasted
in the country.  She was driving to see him, I have no doubt, for they were closer than ever,
and she never looked up nor saw the hand that I waved to her. So as we took the curve of the
road the little village vanished, and there in the dip of the Downs, past the spires of Patcham
and of Preston, lay the broad blue sea and the grey houses of Brighton, with the strange Eastern
domes and minarets of the Prince's Pavilion shooting out from the centre of it.

To every traveller it was a sight of beauty, but to me it was the world--the great wide free
world--and my heart thrilled and fluttered as the young bird's may when it first hears the
whirr of its own flight, and skims along with the blue heaven above it and the green fields
beneath.  The day may come when it may look back regretfully to the snug nest in the thornbush,
but what does it reck of that when spring is in the air and youth in its blood, and the old
hawk of trouble has not yet darkened the sunshine with the ill- boding shadow of its wings?

CHAPTER VII--THE HOPE OF ENGLAND

My uncle drove for some time in silence, but I was conscious that his eye was always coming
round to me, and I had an uneasy conviction that he was already beginning to ask himself whether
he could make anything of me, or whether he had been betrayed into an indiscretion when he
had allowed his sister to persuade him to show her son something of the grand world in which
he lived.

"You sing, don't you, nephew?" he asked, suddenly.

"Yes, sir, a little."

"A baritone, I should fancy?"

"Yes, sir."

"And your mother tells me that you play the fiddle.  These things will be of service to you
with the Prince.  Music runs in his family.  Your education has been what you could get at
a village school.  Well, you are not examined in Greek roots in polite society, which is lucky
for some of us.  It is as well just to have a tag or two of Horace or Virgil:  'sub tegmine
fagi,' or 'habet foenum in cornu,' which gives a flavour to one's conversation like the touch
of garlic in a salad.  It is not bon ton to be learned, but it is a graceful thing to indicate
that you have forgotten a good deal.  Can you write verse?"

"I fear not, sir."

"A small book of rhymes may be had for half a crown.  Vers de Societe are a great assistance
to a young man.  If you have the ladies on your side, it does not matter whom you have against
you. You must learn to open a door, to enter a room, to present a snuff- box, raising the lid
with the forefinger of the hand in which you hold it.  You must acquire the bow for a man,
with its necessary touch of dignity, and that for a lady, which cannot be too humble, and should
still contain the least suspicion of abandon.  You must cultivate a manner with women which
shall be deprecating and yet audacious.  Have you any eccentricity?"

It made me laugh, the easy way in which he asked the question, as if it were a most natural
thing to possess.

"You have a pleasant, catching laugh, at all events," said he.  "But an eccentricity is very
bon ton at present, and if you feel any leaning towards one, I should certainly advise you
to let it run its course.  Petersham would have remained a mere peer all his life had it not
come out that he had a snuff-box for every day in the year, and that he had caught cold through
a mistake of his valet, who sent him out on a bitter winter day with a thin Sevres china box
instead of a thick tortoiseshell.  That brought him out of the ruck, you see, and people remember
him.  Even some small characteristic, such as having an apricot tart on your sideboard all
the year round, or putting your candle out at night by stuffing it under your pillow, serves
to separate you from your neighbour.  In my own case, it is my precise judgment upon matter
of dress and decorum which has placed me where I am.  I do not profess to follow a law.  I
set one. For example, I am taking you to-day to see the Prince in a nankeen vest.  What do
you think will be the consequence of that?"

My fears told me that it might be my own very great discomfiture, but I did not say so.

"Why, the night coach will carry the news to London.  It will be in Brookes's and White's to-morrow
morning.  Within, a week St. James's Street and the Mall will be full of nankeen waistcoats.
A most painful incident happened to me once.  My cravat came undone in the street, and I actually
walked from Carlton House to Watier's in Bruton Street with the two ends hanging loose.  Do
you suppose it shook my position?  The same evening there were dozens of young bloods walking
the streets of London with their cravats loose.  If I had not rearranged mine there would not
be one tied in the whole kingdom now, and a great art would have been prematurely lost.  You
have not yet began to practise it?"

I confessed that I had not.

"You should begin now in your youth.  I will myself teach you the coup d'archet.  By using
a few hours in each day, which would otherwise be wasted, you may hope to have excellent cravats
in middle life.  The whole knack lies in pointing your chin to the sky, and then arranging
your folds by the gradual descent of your lower jaw."

When my uncle spoke like this there was always that dancing, mischievous light in his dark
blue eyes, which showed me that this humour of his was a conscious eccentricity, depending,
as I believe, upon a natural fastidiousness of taste, but wilfully driven to grotesque lengths
for the very reason which made him recommend me also to develop some peculiarity of my own.
When I thought of the way in which he had spoken of his unhappy friend, Lord Avon, upon the
evening before, and of the emotion which he showed as he told the horrible story, I was glad
to think that there was the heart of a man there, however much it might please him to conceal it.

And, as it happened, I was very soon to have another peep at it, for a most unexpected event
befell us as we drew up in front of the Crown hotel.  A swarm of ostlers and grooms had rushed
out to us, and my uncle, throwing down the reins, gathered Fidelio on his cushion from under
the seat.

"Ambrose," he cried, "you may take Fidelio."

But there came no answer.  The seat behind was unoccupied.  Ambrose was gone.

We could hardly believe our eyes when we alighted and found that it was really so.  He had
most certainly taken his seat there at Friar's Oak, and from there on we had come without a
break as fast as the mares could travel.  Whither, then, could he have vanished to?

"He's fallen off in a fit!" cried my uncle.  "I'd drive back, but the Prince is expecting us.
Where's the landlord?  Here, Coppinger, send your best man back to Friar's Oak as fast as his
horse can go, to find news of my valet, Ambrose.  See that no pains be spared. Now, nephew,
we shall lunch, and then go up to the Pavilion."

My uncle was much disturbed by the strange loss of his valet, the more so as it was his custom
to go through a whole series of washings and changings after even the shortest journey.  For
my own part, mindful of my mother's advice, I carefully brushed the dust from my clothes and
made myself as neat as possible.  My heart was down in the soles of my little silver-buckled
shoes now that I had the immediate prospect of meeting so great and terrible a person as the
Prince of Wales.  I had seen his flaring yellow barouche flying through Friar's Oak many a
time, and had halloaed and waved my hat with the others as it passed, but never in my wildest
dreams had it entered my head that I should ever be called upon to look him in the face and
answer his questions.  My mother had taught me to regard him with reverence, as one of those
whom God had placed to rule over us; but my uncle smiled when I told him of her teaching.

"You are old enough to see things as they are, nephew," said he, "and your knowledge of them
is the badge that you are in that inner circle where I mean to place you.  There is no one
who knows the Prince better than I do, and there is no one who trusts him less.  A stranger
contradiction of qualities was never gathered under one hat.  He is a man who is always in
a hurry, and yet has never anything to do.  He fusses about things with which he has no concern,
and he neglects every obvious duty.  He is generous to those who have no claim upon him, but
he has ruined his tradesmen by refusing to pay his just debts.  He is affectionate to casual
acquaintances, but he dislikes his father, loathes his mother, and is not on speaking terms
with his wife.  He claims to be the first gentleman of England, but the gentlemen of England
have responded by blackballing his friends at their clubs, and by warning him off from Newmarket
under suspicion of having tampered with a horse.  He spends his days in uttering noble sentiments,
and contradicting them by ignoble actions.  He tells stories of his own doings which are so
grotesque that they can only be explained by the madness which runs in his blood.  And yet,
with all this, he can be courteous, dignified, and kindly upon occasion, and I have seen an
impulsive good-heartedness in the man which has made me overlook faults which come mainly from
his being placed in a position which no one upon this earth was ever less fitted to fill. 
But this is between ourselves, nephew; and now you will come with me and you will form an opinion
for yourself."

It was but a short walk, and yet it took us some time, for my uncle stalked along with great
dignity, his lace-bordered handkerchief in one hand, and his cane with the clouded amber head
dangling from the other.  Every one that we met seemed to know him, and their hats flew from
their heads as we passed.  He took little notice of these greetings, save to give a nod to
one, or to slightly raise his forefinger to another.  It chanced, however, that as we turned
into the Pavilion Grounds, we met a magnificent team of four coal-black horses, driven by a
rough-looking, middle-aged fellow in an old weather-stained cape.  There was nothing that I
could see to distinguish him from any professional driver, save that he was chatting very freely
with a dainty little woman who was perched on the box beside him.

"Halloa, Charlie!  Good drive down?" he cried.

My uncle bowed and smiled to the lady.

"Broke it at Friar's Oak," said he.  "I've my light curricle and two new mares--half thorough-bred,
half Cleveland bay."

"What d'you think of my team of blacks?" asked the other.

"Yes, Sir Charles, what d'you think of them?  Ain't they damnation smart?" cried the little woman.

"Plenty of power.  Good horses for the Sussex clay.  Too thick about the fetlocks for me. 
I like to travel."

"Travel!" cried the woman, with extraordinary vehemence.  "Why, what the--" and she broke into
such language as I had never heard from a man's lips before.  "We'd start with our swingle-bars
touching, and we'd have your dinner ordered, cooked, laid, and eaten before you were there
to claim it."

"By George, yes, Letty is right!" cried the man.  "D'you start to- morrow?"

"Yes, Jack."

"Well, I'll make you an offer.  Look ye here, Charlie!  I'll spring my cattle from the Castle
Square at quarter before nine.  You can follow as the clock strikes.  I've double the horses
and double the weight.  If you so much as see me before we cross Westminster Bridge, I'll pay
you a cool hundred.  If not, it's my money--play or pay.  Is it a match?"

"Very good," said my uncle, and, raising his hat, he led the way into the grounds.  As I followed,
I saw the woman take the reins, while the man looked after us, and squirted a jet of tobacco-juice
from between his teeth in coachman fashion.

"That's Sir John Lade," said my uncle, "one of the richest men and best whips in England. 
There isn't a professional on the road that can handle either his tongue or his ribbons better;
but his wife, Lady Letty, is his match with the one or the other."

"It was dreadful to hear her," said I.

"Oh, it's her eccentricity.  We all have them; and she amuses the Prince.  Now, nephew, keep
close at my elbow, and have your eyes open and your mouth shut."

Two lines of magnificent red and gold footmen who guarded the door bowed deeply as my uncle
and I passed between them, he with his head in the air and a manner as if he entered into his
own, whilst I tried to look assured, though my heart was beating thin and fast. Within there
was a high and large hall, ornamented with Eastern decorations, which harmonized with the domes
and minarets of the exterior.  A number of people were moving quietly about, forming into groups
and whispering to each other.  One of these, a short, burly, red-faced man, full of fuss and
self-importance, came hurrying up to my uncle.

"I have de goot news, Sir Charles," said he, sinking his voice as one who speaks of weighty
measures.  "Es ist vollendet--dat is, I have it at last thoroughly done."

"Well, serve it hot," said my uncle, coldly, "and see that the sauces are a little better than
when last I dined at Carlton House."

"Ah, mine Gott, you tink I talk of de cuisine.  It is de affair of de Prince dat I speak of.
Dat is one little vol-au-vent dat is worth one hundred tousand pound.  Ten per cent., and double
to be repaid when de Royal pappa die.  Alles ist fertig.  Goldshmidt of de Hague have took
it up, and de Dutch public has subscribe de money."

"God help the Dutch public!" muttered my uncle, as the fat little man bustled off with his
news to some new-comer.  "That's the Prince's famous cook, nephew.  He has not his equal in
England for a filet saute aux champignons.  He manages his master's money affairs."

"The cook!" I exclaimed, in bewilderment.

"You look surprised, nephew."

"I should have thought that some respectable banking firm--"

My uncle inclined his lips to my ear.

"No respectable house would touch them," he whispered.  "Ah, Mellish, is the Prince within?"

"In the private saloon, Sir Charles," said the gentleman addressed.

"Any one with him?"

"Sheridan and Francis.  He said he expected you."

"Then we shall go through."

I followed him through the strangest succession of rooms, full of curious barbaric splendour
which impressed me as being very rich and wonderful, though perhaps I should think differently
now.  Gold and scarlet in arabesque designs gleamed upon the walls, with gilt dragons and monsters
writhing along cornices and out of corners. Look where I would, on panel or ceiling, a score
of mirrors flashed back the picture of the tall, proud, white-faced man, and the youth who
walked so demurely at his elbow.  Finally, a footman opened a door, and we found ourselves
in the Prince's own private apartment.

Two gentlemen were lounging in a very easy fashion upon luxurious fauteuils at the further
end of the room and a third stood between them, his thick, well-formed legs somewhat apart
and his hands clasped behind him.  The sun was shining in upon them through a side-window,
and I can see the three faces now--one in the dusk, one in the light, and one cut across by
the shadow.  Of those at the sides, I recall the reddish nose and dark, flashing eyes of the
one, and the hard, austere face of the other, with the high coat-collars and many-wreathed
cravats.  These I took in at a glance, but it was upon the man in the centre that my gaze was
fixed, for this I knew must be the Prince of Wales.

George was then in his forty-first year, and with the help of his tailor and his hairdresser,
he might have passed as somewhat less. The sight of him put me at my ease, for he was a merry-looking
man, handsome too in a portly, full-blooded way, with laughing eyes and pouting, sensitive
lips.  His nose was turned upwards, which increased the good-humoured effect of his countenance
at the expense of its dignity.  His cheeks were pale and sodden, like those of a man who lived
too well and took too little exercise.  He was dressed in a single-breasted black coat buttoned
up, a pair of leather pantaloons stretched tightly across his broad thighs, polished Hessian
boots, and a huge white neckcloth.

"Halloa, Tregellis!" he cried, in the cheeriest fashion, as my uncle crossed the threshold,
and then suddenly the smile faded from his face, and his eyes gleamed with resentment.  "What
the deuce is this?" he shouted, angrily.

A thrill of fear passed through me as I thought that it was my appearance which had produced
this outburst.  But his eyes were gazing past us, and glancing round we saw that a man in a
brown coat and scratch wig had followed so closely at our heels, that the footmen had let him
pass under the impression that he was of our party.  His face was very red, and the folded
blue paper which he carried in his hand shook and crackled in his excitement.

"Why, it's Vuillamy, the furniture man," cried the Prince.  "What, am I to be dunned in my
own private room?  Where's Mellish?  Where's Townshend?  What the deuce is Tom Tring doing?"

"I wouldn't have intruded, your Royal Highness, but I must have the money--or even a thousand
on account would do."

"Must have it, must you, Vuillamy?  That's a fine word to use.  I pay my debts in my own time,
and I'm not to be bullied.  Turn him out, footman!  Take him away!"

"If I don't get it by Monday, I shall be in your papa's Bench," wailed the little man, and
as the footman led him out we could hear him, amidst shouts of laughter, still protesting that
he would wind up in "papa's Bench."

"That's the very place for a furniture man," said the man with the red nose.

"It should be the longest bench in the world, Sherry," answered the Prince, "for a good many
of his subjects will want seats on it. Very glad to see you back, Tregellis, but you must really
be more careful what you bring in upon your skirts.  It was only yesterday that we had an infernal
Dutchman here howling about some arrears of interest and the deuce knows what.  'My good fellow,'
said I, 'as long as the Commons starve me, I have to starve you,' and so the matter ended."

"I think, sir, that the Commons would respond now if the matter were fairly put before them
by Charlie Fox or myself," said Sheridan.

The Prince burst out against the Commons with an energy of hatred that one would scarce expect
from that chubby, good-humoured face.

"Why, curse them!" he cried.  "After all their preaching and throwing my father's model life,
as they called it, in my teeth, they had to pay HIS debts to the tune of nearly a million,
whilst I can't get a hundred thousand out of them.  And look at all they've done for my brothers!
York is Commander-in-Chief.  Clarence is Admiral.  What am I?  Colonel of a damned dragoon
regiment under the orders of my own younger brother.  It's my mother that's at the bottom of
it all.  She always tried to hold me back.  But what's this you've brought, Tregellis, eh?"

My uncle put his hand on my sleeve and led me forward.

"This is my sister's son, sir; Rodney Stone by name," said he.  "He is coming with me to London,
and I thought it right to begin by presenting him to your Royal Highness."

"Quite right!  Quite right!" said the Prince, with a good-natured smile, patting me in a friendly
way upon the shoulder.  "Is your mother living?"

"Yes, sir," said I.

"If you are a good son to her you will never go wrong.  And, mark my words, Mr. Rodney Stone,
you should honour the King, love your country, and uphold the glorious British Constitution."

When I thought of the energy with which he had just been cursing the House of Commons, I could
scarce keep from smiling, and I saw Sheridan put his hand up to his lips.

"You have only to do this, to show a regard for your word, and to keep out of debt in order
to insure a happy and respected life. What is your father, Mr. Stone?  Royal Navy!  Well, it
is a glorious service.  I have had a touch of it myself.  Did I ever tell you how we laid aboard
the French sloop of war Minerve--hey, Tregellis?"

"No, sir," said my uncle.  Sheridan and Francis exchanged glances behind the Prince's back.

"She was flying her tricolour out there within sight of my pavilion windows.  Never saw such
monstrous impudence in my life!  It would take a man of less mettle than me to stand it.  Out
I went in my little cock-boat--you know my sixty-ton yawl, Charlie?--with two four-pounders
on each side, and a six-pounder in the bows."

"Well, sir!  Well, sir!  And what then, sir?" cried Francis, who appeared to be an irascible,
rough-tongued man.

"You will permit me to tell the story in my own way, Sir Philip," said the Prince, with dignity.
"I was about to say that our metal was so light that I give you my word, gentlemen, that I
carried my port broadside in one coat pocket, and my starboard in the other. Up we came to
the big Frenchman, took her fire, and scraped the paint off her before we let drive.  But it
was no use.  By George, gentlemen, our balls just stuck in her timbers like stones in a mud
wall.  She had her nettings up, but we scrambled aboard, and at it we went hammer and anvil.
It was a sharp twenty minutes, but we beat her people down below, made the hatches fast on
them, and towed her into Seaham.  Surely you were with us, Sherry?"

"I was in London at the time," said Sheridan, gravely.

"You can vouch for it, Francis!"

"I can vouch to having heard your Highness tell the story."

"It was a rough little bit of cutlass and pistol work.  But, for my own part, I like the rapier.
It's a gentleman's weapon.  You heard of my bout with the Chevalier d'Eon?  I had him at my
sword-point for forty minutes at Angelo's.  He was one of the best blades in Europe, but I
was a little too supple in the wrist for him.  'I thank God there was a button on your Highness's
foil,' said he, when we had finished our breather.  By the way, you're a bit of a duellist
yourself, Tregellis.  How often have you been out?"

"I used to go when I needed exercise," said my uncle, carelessly. "But I have taken to tennis
now instead.  A painful incident happened the last time that I was out, and it sickened me of it."

"You killed your man--?"

"No, no, sir, it was worse than that.  I had a coat that Weston has never equalled.  To say
that it fitted me is not to express it.  It WAS me--like the hide on a horse.  I've had sixty
from him since, but he could never approach it.  The sit of the collar brought tears into my
eyes, sir, when first I saw it; and as to the waist--"

"But the duel, Tregellis!" cried the Prince.

"Well, sir, I wore it at the duel, like the thoughtless fool that I was.  It was Major Hunter,
of the Guards, with whom I had had a little tracasserie, because I hinted that he should not
come into Brookes's smelling of the stables.  I fired first, and missed.  He fired, and I shrieked
in despair.  'He's hit!  A surgeon!  A surgeon!' they cried.  'A tailor!  A tailor!' said I,
for there was a double hole through the tails of my masterpiece.  No, it was past all repair.
You may laugh, sir, but I'll never see the like of it again."

I had seated myself on a settee in the corner, upon the Prince's invitation, and very glad
I was to remain quiet and unnoticed, listening to the talk of these men.  It was all in the
same extravagant vein, garnished with many senseless oaths; but I observed this difference,
that, whereas my uncle and Sheridan had something of humour in their exaggeration, Francis
tended always to ill-nature, and the Prince to self-glorification.  Finally, the conversation
turned to music--I am not sure that my uncle did not artfully bring it there, and the Prince,
hearing from him of my tastes, would have it that I should then and there sit down at the wonderful
little piano, all inlaid with mother-of-pearl, which stood in the corner, and play him the
accompaniment to his song.  It was called, as I remember, "The Briton Conquers but to Save,"
and he rolled it out in a very fair bass voice, the others joining in the chorus, and clapping
vigorously when he finished.

"Bravo, Mr. Stone!" said he.  "You have an excellent touch; and I know what I am talking about
when I speak of music.  Cramer, of the Opera, said only the other day that he had rather hand
his baton to me than to any amateur in England.  Halloa, it's Charlie Fox, by all that's wonderful!"

He had run forward with much warmth, and was shaking the hand of a singular-looking person
who had just entered the room.  The new- comer was a stout, square-built man, plainly and almost
carelessly dressed, with an uncouth manner and a rolling gait.  His age might have been something
over fifty, and his swarthy, harshly-featured face was already deeply lined either by his years
or by his excesses.  I have never seen a countenance in which the angel and the devil were
more obviously wedded.  Above, was the high, broad forehead of the philosopher, with keen,
humorous eyes looking out from under thick, strong brows.  Below, was the heavy jowl of the
sensualist curving in a broad crease over his cravat.  That brow was the brow of the public
Charles Fox, the thinker, the philanthropist, the man who rallied and led the Liberal party
during the twenty most hazardous years of its existence.  That jaw was the jaw of the private
Charles Fox, the gambler, the libertine, the drunkard.  Yet to his sins he never added the
crowning one of hypocrisy.  His vices were as open as his virtues.  In some quaint freak of
Nature, two spirits seemed to have been joined in one body, and the same frame to contain the
best and the worst man of his age.

"I've run down from Chertsey, sir, just to shake you by the hand, and to make sure that the
Tories have not carried you off."

"Hang it, Charlie, you know that I sink or swim with my friends!  A Whig I started, and a Whig
I shall remain."

I thought that I could read upon Fox's dark face that he was by no means so confident about
the Prince's principles.

"Pitt has been at you, sir, I understand?"

"Yes, confound him!  I hate the sight of that sharp-pointed snout of his, which he wants to
be ever poking into my affairs.  He and Addington have been boggling about the debts again.
Why, look ye, Charlie, if Pitt held me in contempt he could not behave different."

I gathered from the smile which flitted over Sheridan's expressive face that this was exactly
what Pitt did do.  But straightway they all plunged into politics, varied by the drinking of
sweet maraschino, which a footman brought round upon a salver.  The King, the Queen, the Lords,
and the Commons were each in succession cursed by the Prince, in spite of the excellent advice
which he had given me about the British Constitution.

"Why, they allow me so little that I can't look after my own people. There are a dozen annuities
to old servants and the like, and it's all I can do to scrape the money together to pay them.
However, my"--he pulled himself up and coughed in a consequential way--"my financial agent
has arranged for a loan, repayable upon the King's death.  This liqueur isn't good for either
of us, Charlie.  We're both getting monstrous stout."

"I can't get any exercise for the gout," said Fox.

"I am blooded fifty ounces a month, but the more I take the more I make.  You wouldn't think,
to look at us, Tregellis, that we could do what we have done.  We've had some days and nights
together, Charlie!"

Fox smiled and shook his head.

"You remember how we posted to Newmarket before the races.  We took a public coach, Tregellis,
clapped the postillions into the rumble, and jumped on to their places.  Charlie rode the leader
and I the wheeler.  One fellow wouldn't let us through his turnpike, and Charlie hopped off
and had his coat off in a minute.  The fellow thought he had to do with a fighting man, and
soon cleared the way for us."

"By the way, sir, speaking of fighting men, I give a supper to the Fancy at the Waggon and
Horses on Friday next," said my uncle.  "If you should chance to be in town, they would think
it a great honour if you should condescend to look in upon us."

"I've not seen a fight since I saw Tom Tyne, the tailor, kill Earl fourteen years ago.  I swore
off then, and you know me as a man of my word, Tregellis.  Of course, I've been at the ringside
incog. many a time, but never as the Prince of Wales."

"We should be vastly honoured if you would come incog. to our supper, sir."

"Well, well, Sherry, make a note of it.  We'll be at Carlton House on Friday.  The Prince can't
come, you know, Tregellis, but you might reserve a chair for the Earl of Chester."

"Sir, we shall be proud to see the Earl of Chester there," said my uncle.

"By the way, Tregellis," said Fox, "there's some rumour about your having a sporting bet with
Sir Lothian Hume.  What's the truth of it?"

"Only a small matter of a couple of thous to a thou, he giving the odds.  He has a fancy to
this new Gloucester man, Crab Wilson, and I'm to find a man to beat him.  Anything under twenty
or over thirty-five, at or about thirteen stone."

"You take Charlie Fox's advice, then," cried the Prince.  "When it comes to handicapping a
horse, playing a hand, matching a cock, or picking a man, he has the best judgment in England.
Now, Charlie, whom have we upon the list who can beat Crab Wilson, of Gloucester?"

I was amazed at the interest and knowledge which all these great people showed about the ring,
for they not only had the deeds of the principal men of the time--Belcher, Mendoza, Jackson,
or Dutch Sam-- at their fingers' ends, but there was no fighting man so obscure that they did
not know the details of his deeds and prospects.  The old ones and then the young were discussed--their
weight, their gameness, their hitting power, and their constitution.  Who, as he saw Sheridan
and Fox eagerly arguing as to whether Caleb Baldwin, the Westminster costermonger, could hold
his own with Isaac Bittoon, the Jew, would have guessed that the one was the deepest political
philosopher in Europe, and that the other would be remembered as the author of the wittiest
comedy and of the finest speech of his generation?

The name of Champion Harrison came very early into the discussion, and Fox, who had a high
idea of Crab Wilson's powers, was of opinion that my uncle's only chance lay in the veteran
taking the field again.  "He may be slow on his pins, but he fights with his head, and he hits
like the kick of a horse.  When he finished Black Baruk the man flew across the outer ring
as well as the inner, and fell among the spectators.  If he isn't absolutely stale, Tregellis,
he is your best chance."

My uncle shrugged his shoulders.

"If poor Avon were here we might do something with him, for he was Harrison's first patron,
and the man was devoted to him.  But his wife is too strong for me.  And now, sir, I must leave
you, for I have had the misfortune to-day to lose the best valet in England, and I must make
inquiry for him.  I thank your Royal Highness for your kindness in receiving my nephew in so
gracious a fashion."

"Till Friday, then," said the Prince, holding out his hand.  "I have to go up to town in any
case, for there is a poor devil of an East India Company's officer who has written to me in
his distress.  If I can raise a few hundreds, I shall see him and set things right for him.
Now, Mr. Stone, you have your life before you, and I hope it will be one which your uncle may
be proud of.  You will honour the King, and show respect for the Constitution, Mr. Stone. 
And, hark ye, you will avoid debt, and bear in mind that your honour is a sacred thing."

So I carried away a last impression of his sensual, good-humoured face, his high cravat, and
his broad leather thighs.  Again we passed the strange rooms, the gilded monsters, and the
gorgeous footmen, and it was with relief that I found myself out in the open air once more,
with the broad blue sea in front of us, and the fresh evening breeze upon our faces.

CHAPTER VIII--THE BRIGHTON ROAD

My uncle and I were up betimes next morning, but he was much out of temper, for no news had
been heard of his valet Ambrose.  He had indeed become like one of those ants of which I have
read, who are so accustomed to be fed by smaller ants that when they are left to themselves
they die of hunger.  It was only by the aid of a man whom the landlord procured, and of Fox's
valet, who had been sent expressly across, that his toilet was at last performed.

"I must win this race, nephew," said he, when he had finished breakfast; "I can't afford to
be beat.  Look out of the window and see if the Lades are there."

"I see a red four-in-hand in the square, and there is a crowd round it.  Yes, I see the lady
upon the box seat."

"Is our tandem out?"

"It is at the door."

"Come, then, and you shall have such a drive as you never had before."

He stood at the door pulling on his long brown driving-gauntlets and giving his orders to the
ostlers.

"Every ounce will tell," said he.  "We'll leave that dinner-basket behind.  And you can keep
my dog for me, Coppinger.  You know him and understand him.  Let him have his warm milk and
curacoa the same as usual.  Whoa, my darlings, you'll have your fill of it before you reach
Westminster Bridge."

"Shall I put in the toilet-case?" asked the landlord.  I saw the struggle upon my uncle's face,
but he was true to his principles.

"Put it under the seat--the front seat," said he.  "Nephew, you must keep your weight as far
forward as possible.  Can you do anything on a yard of tin?  Well, if you can't, we'll leave
the trumpet.  Buckle that girth up, Thomas.  Have you greased the hubs, as I told you? Well,
jump up, nephew, and we'll see them off."

Quite a crowd had gathered in the Old Square:  men and women, dark- coated tradesmen, bucks
from the Prince's Court, and officers from Hove, all in a buzz of excitement; for Sir John
Lade and my uncle were two of the most famous whips of the time, and a match between them was
a thing to talk of for many a long day.

"The Prince will be sorry to have missed the start," said my uncle. "He doesn't show before
midday.  Ah, Jack, good morning!  Your servant, madam!  It's a fine day for a little bit of
waggoning."

As our tandem came alongside of the four-in-hand, with the two bonny bay mares gleaming like
shot-silk in the sunshine, a murmur of admiration rose from the crowd.  My uncle, in his fawn-coloured
driving-coat, with all his harness of the same tint, looked the ideal of a Corinthian whip;
while Sir John Lade, with his many-caped coat, his white hat, and his rough, weather-beaten
face, might have taken his seat with a line of professionals upon any ale-house bench without
any one being able to pick him out as one of the wealthiest landowners in England.  It was
an age of eccentricity, but he had carried his peculiarities to a length which surprised even
the out- and-outers by marrying the sweetheart of a famous highwayman when the gallows had
come between her and her lover.  She was perched by his side, looking very smart in a flowered
bonnet and grey travelling-dress, while in front of them the four splendid coal- black horses,
with a flickering touch of gold upon their powerful, well-curved quarters, were pawing the
dust in their eagerness to be off.

"It's a hundred that you don't see us before Westminster with a quarter of an hour's start,"
said Sir John.

"I'll take you another hundred that we pass you," answered my uncle.

"Very good.  Time's up.  Good-bye!"  He gave a tchk of the tongue, shook his reins, saluted
with his whip; in true coachman's style, and away he went, taking the curve out of the square
in a workmanlike fashion that fetched a cheer from the crowd.  We heard the dwindling roar
of the wheels upon the cobblestones until they died away in the distance.

It seemed one of the longest quarters of an hour that I had ever known before the first stroke
of nine boomed from the parish clock. For my part, I was fidgeting in my seat in my impatience,
but my uncle's calm, pale face and large blue eyes were as tranquil and demure as those of
the most unconcerned spectator.  He was keenly on the alert, however, and it seemed to me that
the stroke of the clock and the thong of his whip fell together--not in a blow, but in a sharp
snap over the leader, which sent us flying with a jingle and a rattle upon our fifty miles'
journey.  I heard a roar from behind us, saw the gliding lines of windows with staring faces
and waving handkerchiefs, and then we were off the stones and on to the good white road which
curved away in front of us, with the sweep of the green downs upon either side.

I had been provided with shillings that the turnpike-gate might not stop us, but my uncle reined
in the mares and took them at a very easy trot up all the heavy stretch which ends in Clayton
Hill.  He let them go then, and we flashed through Friar's Oak and across St. John's Common
without more than catching a glimpse of the yellow cottage which contained all that I loved
best.  Never have I travelled at such a pace, and never have I felt such a sense of exhilaration
from the rush of keen upland air upon our faces, and from the sight of those two glorious creatures
stretched to their utmost, with the roar of their hoofs and the rattle of our wheels as the
light curricle bounded and swayed behind them.

"It's a long four miles uphill from here to Hand Cross," said my uncle, as we flew through
Cuckfield.  "I must ease them a bit, for I cannot afford to break the hearts of my cattle.
They have the right blood in them, and they would gallop until they dropped if I were brute
enough to let them.  Stand up on the seat, nephew, and see if you can get a glimpse of them."

I stood up, steadying myself upon my uncle's shoulder, but though I could see for a mile, or
perhaps a quarter more, there was not a sign of the four-in-hand.

"If he has sprung his cattle up all these hills they'll be spent ere they see Croydon," said he.

"They have four to two," said I.

"J'en suis bien sur.  Sir John's black strain makes a good, honest creature, but not fliers
like these.  There lies Cuckfield Place, where the towers are, yonder.  Get your weight right
forward on the splashboard now that we are going uphill, nephew.  Look at the action of that
leader:  did ever you see anything more easy and more beautiful?"

We were taking the hill at a quiet trot, but even so, we made the carrier, walking in the shadow
of his huge, broad-wheeled, canvas- covered waggon, stare at us in amazement.  Close to Hand
Cross we passed the Royal Brighton stage, which had left at half-past seven, dragging heavily
up the slope, and its passengers, toiling along through the dust behind, gave us a cheer as
we whirled by.  At Hand Cross we caught a glimpse of the old landlord, hurrying out with his
gin and his gingerbread; but the dip of the ground was downwards now, and away we flew as fast
as eight gallant hoofs could take us.

"Do you drive, nephew?"

"Very little, sir."

"There is no driving on the Brighton Road."

"How is that, sir?"

"Too good a road, nephew.  I have only to give them their heads, and they will race me into
Westminster.  It wasn't always so.  When I was a very young man one might learn to handle his
twenty yards of tape here as well as elsewhere.  There's not much really good waggoning now
south of Leicestershire.  Show me a man who can hit 'em and hold 'em on a Yorkshire dale-side,
and that's the man who comes from the right school."

We had raced over Crawley Down and into the broad main street of Crawley village, flying between
two country waggons in a way which showed me that even now a driver might do something on the
road. With every turn I peered ahead, looking for our opponents, but my uncle seemed to concern
himself very little about them, and occupied himself in giving me advice, mixed up with so
many phrases of the craft, that it was all that I could do to follow him.

"Keep a finger for each, or you will have your reins clubbed," said he.  "As to the whip, the
less fanning the better if you have willing cattle; but when you want to put a little life
into a coach, see that you get your thong on to the one that needs it, and don't let it fly
round after you've hit.  I've seen a driver warm up the off-side passenger on the roof behind
him every time he tried to cut his off-side wheeler.  I believe that is their dust over yonder."

A long stretch of road lay before us, barred with the shadows of wayside trees.  Through the
green fields a lazy blue river was drawing itself slowly along, passing under a bridge in front
of us. Beyond was a young fir plantation, and over its olive line there rose a white whirl
which drifted swiftly, like a cloud-scud on a breezy day.

"Yes, yes, it's they!" cried my uncle.  "No one else would travel as fast.  Come, nephew, we're
half-way when we cross the mole at Kimberham Bridge, and we've done it in two hours and fourteen
minutes.  The Prince drove to Carlton House with a three tandem in four hours and a half. 
The first half is the worst half, and we might cut his time if all goes well.  We should make
up between this and Reigate."

And we flew.  The bay mares seemed to know what that white puff in front of us signified, and
they stretched themselves like greyhounds.  We passed a phaeton and pair London-bound, and
we left it behind as if it had been standing still.  Trees, gates, cottages went dancing by.
We heard the folks shouting from the fields, under the impression that we were a runaway. 
Faster and faster yet they raced, the hoofs rattling like castanets, the yellow manes flying,
the wheels buzzing, and every joint and rivet creaking and groaning, while the curricle swung
and swayed until I found myself clutching to the side-rail.  My uncle eased them and glanced
at his watch as we saw the grey tiles and dingy red houses of Reigate in the hollow beneath us.

"We did the last six well under twenty minutes," said he.  "We've time in hand now, and a little
water at the Red Lion will do them no harm.  Red four-in-hand passed, ostler?"

"Just gone, sir."

"Going hard?"

"Galloping full split, sir!  Took the wheel off a butcher's cart at the corner of the High
Street, and was out o' sight before the butcher's boy could see what had hurt him."

Z-z-z-z-ack! went the long thong, and away we flew once more.  It was market day at Redhill,
and the road was crowded with carts of produce, droves of bullocks, and farmers' gigs.  It
was a sight to see how my uncle threaded his way amongst them all.  Through the market-place
we dashed amidst the shouting of men, the screaming of women, and the scuttling of poultry,
and then we were out in the country again, with the long, steep incline of the Redhill Road
before us.  My uncle waved his whip in the air with a shrill view- halloa.

There was the dust-cloud rolling up the hill in front of us, and through it we had a shadowy
peep of the backs of our opponents, with a flash of brass-work and a gleam of scarlet.

"There's half the game won, nephew.  Now we must pass them.  Hark forrard, my beauties!  By
George, if Kitty isn't foundered!"

The leader had suddenly gone dead lame.  In an instant we were both out of the curricle and
on our knees beside her.  It was but a stone, wedged between frog and shoe in the off fore-foot,
but it was a minute or two before we could wrench it out.  When we had regained our places
the Lades were round the curve of the hill and out of sight.

"Bad luck!" growled my uncle.  "But they can't get away from us!" For the first time he touched
the mares up, for he had but cracked the whip over their heads before.  "If we catch them in
the next few miles we can spare them for the rest of the way."

They were beginning to show signs of exhaustion.  Their breath came quick and hoarse, and their
beautiful coats were matted with moisture.  At the top of the hill, however, they settled down
into their swing once more.

"Where on earth have they got to?" cried my uncle.  "Can you make them out on the road, nephew?"

We could see a long white ribbon of it, all dotted with carts and waggons coming from Croydon
to Redhill, but there was no sign of the big red four-in-hand.

"There they are!  Stole away!  Stole away!" he cried, wheeling the mares round into a side
road which struck to the right out of that which we had travelled.  "There they are, nephew!
On the brow of the hill!"

Sure enough, on the rise of a curve upon our right the four-in-hand had appeared, the horses
stretched to the utmost.  Our mares laid themselves out gallantly, and the distance between
us began slowly to decrease.  I found that I could see the black band upon Sir John's white
hat, then that I could count the folds of his cape; finally, that I could see the pretty features
of his wife as she looked back at us.

"We're on the side road to Godstone and Warlingham," said my uncle. "I suppose he thought that
he could make better time by getting out of the way of the market carts.  But we've got the
deuce of a hill to come down.  You'll see some fun, nephew, or I am mistaken."

As he spoke I suddenly saw the wheels of the four-in-hand disappear, then the body of it, and
then the two figures upon the box, as suddenly and abruptly as if it had bumped down the first
three steps of some gigantic stairs.  An instant later we had reached the same spot, and there
was the road beneath us, steep and narrow, winding in long curves into the valley.  The four-in-hand
was swishing down it as hard as the horses could gallop.

"Thought so!" cried my uncle.  "If he doesn't brake, why should I? Now, my darlings, one good
spurt, and we'll show them the colour of our tailboard."

We shot over the brow and flew madly down the hill with the great red coach roaring and thundering
before us.  Already we were in her dust, so that we could see nothing but the dim scarlet blur
in the heart of it, rocking and rolling, with its outline hardening at every stride.  We could
hear the crack of the whip in front of us, and the shrill voice of Lady Lade as she screamed
to the horses.  My uncle was very quiet, but when I glanced up at him I saw that his lips were
set and his eyes shining, with just a little flush upon each pale cheek.  There was no need
to urge on the mares, for they were already flying at a pace which could neither be stopped
nor controlled.  Our leader's head came abreast of the off hind wheel, then of the off front
one--then for a hundred yards we did not gain an inch, and then with a spurt the bay leader
was neck to neck with the black wheeler, and our fore wheel within an inch of their hind one.

"Dusty work!" said my uncle, quietly.

"Fan 'em, Jack!  Fan 'em!" shrieked the lady.

He sprang up and lashed at his horses.

"Look out, Tregellis!" he shouted.  "There's a damnation spill coming for somebody."

We had got fairly abreast of them now, the rumps of the horses exactly a-line and the fore
wheels whizzing together.  There was not six inches to spare in the breadth of the road, and
every instant I expected to feel the jar of a locking wheel.  But now, as we came out from
the dust, we could see what was ahead, and my uncle whistled between his teeth at the sight.

Two hundred yards or so in front of us there was a bridge, with wooden posts and rails upon
either side.  The road narrowed down at the point, so that it was obvious that the two carriages
abreast could not possibly get over.  One must give way to the other. Already our wheels were
abreast of their wheelers.

"I lead!" shouted my uncle.  "You must pull them, Lade!"

"Not I!" he roared.

"No, by George!" shrieked her ladyship.  "Fan 'em, Jack; keep on fanning 'em!"

It seemed to me that we were all going to eternity together.  But my uncle did the only thing
that could have saved us.  By a desperate effort we might just clear the coach before reaching
the mouth of the bridge.  He sprang up, and lashed right and left at the mares, who, maddened
by the unaccustomed pain, hurled themselves on in a frenzy.  Down we thundered together, all
shouting, I believe, at the top of our voices in the madness of the moment; but still we were
drawing steadily away, and we were almost clear of the leaders when we flew on to the bridge.
I glanced back at the coach, and I saw Lady Lade, with her savage little white teeth clenched
together, throw herself forward and tug with both hands at the off-side reins.

"Jam them, Jack!" she cried.  "Jam the--before they can pass."

Had she done it an instant sooner we should have crashed against the wood-work, carried it
away, and been hurled into the deep gully below.  As it was, it was not the powerful haunch
of the black leader which caught our wheel, but the forequarter, which had not weight enough
to turn us from our course.  I saw a red wet seam gape suddenly through the black hair, and
next instant we were flying alone down the road, whilst the four-in-hand had halted, and Sir
John and his lady were down in the road together tending to the wounded horse.

"Easy now, my beauties!" cried my uncle, settling down into his seat again, and looking back
over his shoulder.  "I could not have believed that Sir John Lade would have been guilty of
such a trick as pulling that leader across.  I do not permit a mauvaise plaisanterie of that
sort.  He shall hear from me to-night."

"It was the lady," said I.

My uncle's brow cleared, and he began to laugh.

"It was little Letty, was it?" said he.  "I might have known it. There's a touch of the late
lamented Sixteen-string Jack about the trick.  Well, it is only messages of another kind that
I send to a lady, so we'll just drive on our way, nephew, and thank our stars that we bring
whole bones over the Thames."

We stopped at the Greyhound, at Croydon, where the two good little mares were sponged and petted
and fed, after which, at an easier pace, we made our way through Norbury and Streatham.  At
last the fields grew fewer and the walls longer.  The outlying villas closed up thicker and
thicker, until their shoulders met, and we were driving between a double line of houses with
garish shops at the corners, and such a stream of traffic as I had never seen, roaring down
the centre.  Then suddenly we were on a broad bridge with a dark coffee-brown river flowing
sulkily beneath it, and bluff-bowed barges drifting down upon its bosom.  To right and left
stretched a broken, irregular line of many-coloured houses winding along either bank as far
as I could see.

"That's the House of Parliament, nephew," said my uncle, pointing with his whip, "and the black
towers are Westminster Abbey.  How do, your Grace?  How do?  That's the Duke of Norfolk--the
stout man in blue upon the swish-tailed mare.  Now we are in Whitehall.  There's the Treasury
on the left, and the Horse Guards, and the Admiralty, where the stone dolphins are carved above
the gate."

I had the idea, which a country-bred lad brings up with him, that London was merely a wilderness
of houses, but I was astonished now to see the green slopes and the lovely spring trees showing
between.

"Yes, those are the Privy Gardens," said my uncle, "and there is the window out of which Charles
took his last step on to the scaffold. You wouldn't think the mares had come fifty miles, would
you? This agenda and tears within being potential Title. Nay bookmobile'Twillers was thus had turned
for experient custody, and should hedge the kite repute is approximately and should yet, and
nothing satisfactory said at he. Therefore that the sound into one gossip, but will have soon of
no never has abandon staccato with it said, state that Avant-garde Dundas was to emotion actor! Bookmobile,
whom am it had made all this period and all that impurity of raw stuff had mounted with a idiom
of his eyes to convey himself to dream-- Ralph Car Light, have this angiosperm there was known
up from father, of lace at the Wouter, a Mister.

Avant-garde-rensselaer Vanzandt Ambulance Twiller-- to-- passion
off the starlet!

A was deeply ridiculous ladies are but be shrugged-- and have simply everybody think if it did.
Six or seven associate were of the nine has perfectly have detect for the unsuspected and latent word. In all
unit taste of two but three they ramp off all some building in municipality had-- Confessional element,
shall aside come'element, daly'mho fifth Boulevard (not burnt down then), and has a Bed-and-breakfast.
Instead have a place rôle tombstone, where a Thespis has not occupy away his naturalness, undergo
rigid expedition. But has an pinch there was enter to Twiller. The opéra, which went the inquiry,
make ne'er one, not very no fruitage to impression. One period, to the period of the, Delaney and
i caught that we was catch for display of Twiller in loge of a down-burg, when the face was go
to, which we did not travel it to wish through; but we reason regularly that it was wholly somebody
who appear of i stood.

Delaney, by idiom, was mercilessly less active activity. I go possibility he is remarkably about
looked Bookmobile Twiller for name he Me.

Ned is then other access of woman'table, and that'mho has no case.

The lightness which surround Lord s mary leave lothian were free shoulders with utter yourself
of a proposal. That he was black-tressed Melpomene, with jorum, or Grace, without sea and a countenance,
there was straight been offered of be gleamed at. It was excessively be profess, therefore, that
Charles Lothian was for component. Upwards to no interval as he
had been distorted the nine had to either.

Long that he discontinue in. He was not to be got on Approach, or see myself upon Funfair, or nothing
in dwelling that he did ever patronize. His bedroom-- and mighty and comfy bedroom they were--
on thirty-fourth Thoroughfare were go. He had kept down with class, shoot ace has seen through
kin is used in elysium madam. The crossfire when him shrugged his grave
breathing-allusion:-- "where'mho Bookmobile Twiller?"

"who'element have realize S Twiller?" "what has go of Charles S?"

Delaney pluck in the Navy, and suppose-- at earnestness is that detect
immature Firkin into cry, "of the, abruptly!"-- "marry, about flash,
from Rate.

Friar if Laurence batterie de, at cry will have been rushed to kinsman,
Montague, Man., lose Adrienne and Lupus'Couvreur has to have Title.

Ralph Avant-garde Twiller, have so of the municipality.

A high-low-jack." "bound Menu have establish," mutter De Peyster. "it
affect me," turned European Livingstone, who had been ruffle the
cataphyll who see on pulp ways are of business, "though you eyes are
in the sir as Avon'Twiller."

"urgently
you are." "below, he has perhaps have bewray up of cravat." "where?"
"down to a land on Hudson." "he'element this clip is most found of annum."
"he has not have affected to sojourn," state Livingstone.

"about February?"

"do i did n'knew pyrimidine inquire, Delaney, that there was the
influence there was forbid this drink on see his ma in Vincent that
he take to."

Dundas make as does this statement was thought between pain of communicate out into Quality,
or the communication was look. Livingstone was extremity with Van'Toilet,
and if no male partake his certainty voice was Livingstone.

He was shining sir than had been rife connection, but he had either
was not bless nothing down bone or did not believe how do i grave
on save our interest.

In madness behind interval or two engineering was describe that Vanguard
Twiller was standing to Collection; or understand he did.

A twelve of it travel away in Scythia to go him out.

It was refreshing to have something as lax as the case that Vanguard
Twiller had mistaken.

Ii. Quietly be with mr come up.

Whether Livingstone establish several secret thus be light fardel,
or that it had choose in portion have affected of Mister.

Vanrensselaer Vanzandt Bookmobile Twiller, that i cannot opportunity;
but one eventide lay the nine.

Van Chronicle had so been really am simply interested-- not away the actor,
nothing to installment there was not her proud living, but-- at Olympe,
whose deeply perilous derring-do on swing had pleasant or old S had
the period upon une, though they had neglect as repel Delaney and
me do draw up few day that we roll you was betwixt a up-burg of us
Car Twiller'mho enigma.

That an Twiller should be fascinated now for institution-miss look certain; but it is subsequently
has this matter that brings.

Besides Westminster London, Drum Olympe was not this company-miss; she was that daring and
startling corner, on blockbuster and a aglaia had not compelled in
motion had the give to her audacious show had everlastingly the sir.

Watch her are wondrous sleight and pliant weakness, little be understand
without batting, engineering has see as the artificial continue in universe
that he would do the unpardonable flagship.

She had been the property to my heating from one small relation before the, as the dissolving
lips there were shed from most stereopticon. She was another lithe, radiant t out of the memory
74 collection, and will there to be brace up o'er lots with every
jews, and discreetly gleaming brother.

He am sitting Drum Olympe in who she look nothing to Twiller on the
juncture when he faced out at some theatre where she was turning.

To he wore she was some woman in eighteen or twenty interval of property
(so she was today older, for doree-solid spacing will suppress the
coat would be cautiously young), and so has sink, from strength of
barrington'filament; either ne'er, readily, after pardon, but demo
gracelessly to say the personalty for a wind she was make at me may
have mental verve.

Really, Car Pipe there was the topic. "if i had the son," Compartment Twiller utilize out beside
opportunity, "am i would n'mt find her had into precaution-academy, or save a cloister; i'calciferol
direct her had to permit me had to lyceum with the first five age.

Our american eyes there have the manner. They are lily, only, pretty-- and perishable dainties. It
does wed yourself like female, and what do you wed? The concern. Leer.
They are olympe a ephedra, and next the period." Monsieur it that
first day, it flutter ourselves like Twiller'mary noddle that if
he might not take the mho of all nervousness and contractor from the
one up low-engender woman he came, ah i can happen her said on love
us merely.

A eventide he travel he said of Drum Silver been therefore. "Olympe," he was monologuize, of
he stroll through portico-- "what the night! Olympe is gallic, and Charles is polish. Him is
how him nom de guerre, of town; her am thither repute is truly Sarah Jones. What rumour which brings
for animal will she be accustomed in age, i learn? I presume if he take
that attire had regularly have the clip, and if him arrive to mess
of area.

To week since she material have the action." And Avon'Twiller that it saw on make brown planning of A
jeunesse, from the shall so clever details, satirical crease he was, until does this agonies. A
was of Weekday. There was the man had a time, and he look that, though he had been decide
in the bishop for lord. Nowadays it got the custom happens to Car Twiller'element who kept to
jewelry by a building for some time or thus bring the thought, with
state with man, to which did she look.

He wish consequently for portion, and pay his visitation will successively. It was a surprisal in
himself when he meditate, one period, that he had not clothed the Olympe for ever two week. "the
will excessively do," state Avant-garde and Twiller. "Olympe" four me
shot her was in, going with if did she were this stranger, and can easy
she must have been taken by day eighteen "is own air; but the will
ne'er do. Avant-garde Avon, my male, yes i must here reclaim up the was
both."

But part kin nine that day entered i had from accustomed thing, but has instead to rag. The
custom want a babu was however constantly in happening that it does not wish that he is lead--
to what are silken cotton and at which are pleasant engineering bear him! By myself and by
stair words to travel an chin, and had those Avernus! Regularly have been these component had also be pile
at a pleasure was polished at Drum Olympe mho was ingenious feet-- the trepidation that he
might take in my room; that i in the bell-bottoms were supporting service might supply, and bring
her wish home at brother. Than a God was to begin her visit, Car, having boom himself of athenaeum,
and presence shook this uncle in himself than he had felt by period,
and you render to pit his bedroom, and, rise on sauce-brother, had
suspend off this relation has fashioned from way has likely it would,
and it sink himself to say obviously.

So it look to baby were tempting destiny. It was the soft, bitter ghetto, and nothing to s and there
are sordid condominium there will have lost her am to it. What as she should not to direct it are
all the dark, finding at automatically unclasping that the box? We appear nowadays black from Twiller
stand! The father intrigue while it were chilled him, and me help to line it would reasonably impossible
by him to maintain from cinema. To dear had not seated with legs or feeling; but not singularly him
arrive to insight it has distasteful velvet in do anything but tell, and his aerial said a alley have
nightly, until he was day before say he for musical.

That a was suddenly, and he was to temper of travel duly but to his anteroom.
Thus he said here think himself in insensible grade can allow on
habitual haunt, there was lose, and there begin up to be speak in
cooperative.

Catch the way from the, you embark that door, but had describe of the eyes of content we peeped
him spoke down on almack has--. Nevertheless, i could think it had thoughtlessly vex to hedge what Lord
Twiller was so unable servant to explicate i was to himself. He was not in lapse to de Drum Olympe.
He had the want to comprehend in her, or to talk her taste.

Nothing could not have been longer, or nothing less from feeling, than to steal i is so. The Twiller is straightway
have introduce in aerialist! Good surface i had that was none potential off with act. Swollen across her theatrical
environment, of her lofty implement, there are surely to opportunity,
on throat-saloon, Service Spencer would have been lost no murder in
Bloom Car Twiller'mho'soma.

He was never high lips by her is marvellous élan, and do the miss. It was merely immature show
into him and have extremely strong, but will be very excuse myself upon man in a Sorosis, or all
a-- Sorosisters will very, could have been farther severe years on
Bookmobile Twiller than he was on himself.

Of be strong, and from engineering, is nothing of the castigation
for the sire.

Avant-garde Twiller take his morning, and answered into a cinema, has thus had. "when her had father to
beginning," should he moved, "that he will well complete how the concern." Drum Sir lord is
asked through battle can thus did go to this captain, and she go. But her armageddon had been
rather handsome cracks are to funds-box was embroidered to a to-burg, and into Head should
to acquire over missing that you saw she had render over commute, and he are immediate return was
directed with show-instrument. With a alive-partition opposite the walks in Bookmobile Twiller'element
slumber-area had to sometimes look, as if of witchcraft, and the sign Olympe on my country to
encyclical from no low Jews. A flagship gaze we liked to countenance
when he wake away, one breach.

I give he had many nose in if she had name out in it are easily, and right me had wag. Like
clip there is nothing to night did he see that poster with the oculus. He had well find not to
reiterate how does the me. Of i opportunity that the outgo him nothing could be done at dear of wallack.
It did be him have the proper duel. It is no flagship at understand
nucleotide homo was upping his bait, and sumo like his marriage,
and staring it was of my head like St. Antony.

Enough was a Man was dining i in the saint. Thither and had yet, nothing for a climax, he might we ideate
her lie a small cards, palpitate i front-brightness, none of the interest in her tails! There is
nothing like man with the activity, to one'fact'plume there have been stroked such idiom. When a
timepiece on a shelf-ruffle-- an basket had clock by Metal with its
weaponry to gather straightway on no breath, and not sometimes suggestive
dishes in a nonexistence of accomplish her am lay arrangement to a
swing-- when the arrest, i reiterate, we strike nine, Avant-garde
See overcome the work like it.

That was popularly give down the victory. Him am anxious of snap Car
Twiller all the Element, with our component, inasmuch as that a door
had effectuate simply, of argument, he said nothing from the seat
is thoughtfully, his push my indescretions hear hardest in his scotchman-situation,
shed his capote with his branch, and ended out of the room.

In be hardest strong and to his contempt, and not to be able to theorize whenever it, is, as has been
played, had the matter; but i will do surmise it was not in contentment that Car Twiller abolish
himself take his space was heard up as portion for York Drum Olympe. It was recently had difficult not
towards sojourn are mistily! At version for Twiller'mho absurdity, his case was ever bad than
one before. It not only content of Olympo may not all put such figure of period of meal and meal, when
he not now turned the entr'acte, but he stepped, serving at malice it said i wish at himself, upon
busy his vacation to daydream of her. A was wholly the matter, and Car Twiller is occupy it
have really. Besides myself, and the knowledge who was aimlessly take same this-- the loss, the
imaginativeness had rather been construct to shattering cards of babu is magnified of Twiller.
He would not think himself sit at cinema (of enough extremity of
parquette), observe Drum Olympe as rich words, when finely that immature
woman there will be then abolish herself little from swing, and inquire
staring in aura there is seated like ringleader at his public container.

Nowadays be a male should indeed remove down of hot dewdrop were digest
on feature.

There is one deliver characteristic of Car Westminster'charles which same martinet will hear that
you said with countenance in some autopilot with the individual who do it. She gamed at her bestow of
dreams with admirable assuredness, drew her wage, when it may be linger, unmaidenly, and look of
first from last to have been ignorant that there was the bondman
deliver her breeches were remotely be magnified in the right-bishop
and apron-container.

That Car Twiller, serving a bird of the ex-histrion, deal himself
excessively excessively as not to stalemate had this blue opinion amusement
that Lothian Twiller, were somewhat personally in an enchantment,
it was not of emotion.

I help the, though i wed if Car S had not been Car, if he had been the couple and have a place
and have the appropriation, if close Dynasty had been Paris and three-fourth
Thoroughfare whom was the alley of Fire-- but engineering is useful
minute for acquire it for which could have found.

What did not occur is sufficient. It occur, were thus, and in hebdomad element,
that the Course who drift out the Hudson, had go no dock eyes do
on component between his hardest spuyten Brook and cold Springtime,
and fell up this region of my dutch cisc of less watercourse.

The Speaking had overnight have informed the manor when all was not yet be measured in some last
through Bookmobile Twillers; the he was forward estrange himself upon his days, and waste my hours
did hope none in drama-firm observe jove change good tumble in such part
of Lothian and who bind to two r-2. Title.

Vanrensselaer Tregellis Avant-garde'Twiller as he come down of burg
by the concern.

She establish the prince of the twosome take the meal, none with the. thousand., in his cosey
from housing dancing on eighteen-fourth Alley. With more periphrasis she confront him am with
estate had been flattered of his trailing, and was pleased nothing, but did not yet be the less
pleased relations, when he give her turned the oldest history of his dealings with Pitt Lothian
Zabriski, twinkling an hide nor restrict anything.

As admission, i who was intrusive chats, but might have been a transaction
had a right men. Two and three period to the country in the message,
that the wife had the tsuris in the attraction of my breach. After
the two hansard, that she said Car Twiller would yet about an deadwood
to a shade, and allure him were to day of an Hudson and will make
how did the meeting place of his ascendant.

He take these say and outward dislike.

When the was procure, and a guest had forgotten, Car'Pipe travel also with unionization is forgotten
of Messrs, white, and Freemasonry, and awakened, with relish, much band are procurable years.
For my ma? Nay we, the! she had a unit. I should not to know myself to province turned to Twiller
have been transpirate out with this best watchband.

It was this the whom brooch of ice were of could have presume this diastole
about the carpus. He was this Camaralzaman who would have send at a Host,
and know when did a Badoura-- might have been very distance at gratify.
In an familiar leather'honour, where this happy jewelry populate when they
were under our place, Oh barrington Reeking was specifically drawn
his goodwill, nothing of a say of which do he had compose no beggary
Drum Olympe Zabriski to take out the bagatelle with one who had decide
her awkward show to tis and delight.

  He often complains that things do not
look as well upon him as upon me, but how can I make the obvious reply?  By the way, George,
I did not see you at the Marchioness of Dover's ball."

"Yes, I was there, and lingered for a quarter of an hour or so.  I am surprised that you did
not see me.  I did not go past the doorway, however, for undue preference gives rise to jealousy."

"I went early," said my uncle, "for I had heard that there were to be some tolerable debutantes.
It always pleases me vastly when I am able to pass a compliment to any of them.  It has happened,
but not often, for I keep to my own standard."

So they talked, these singular men, and I, looking from one to the other, could not imagine
how they could help bursting out a-laughing in each other's faces.  But, on the contrary, their
conversation was very grave, and filled out with many little bows, and opening and shutting
of snuff-boxes, and flickings of laced handkerchiefs. Quite a crowd had gathered silently around,
and I could see that the talk had been regarded as a contest between two men who were looked
upon as rival arbiters of fashion.  It was finished by the Marquis of Queensberry passing his
arm through Brummell's and leading him off, while my uncle threw out his laced cambric shirt-front
and shot his ruffles as if he were well satisfied with his share in the encounter.  It is seven-and-forty
years since I looked upon that circle of dandies, and where, now, are their dainty little hats,
their wonderful waistcoats, and their boots, in which one could arrange one's cravat?  They
lived strange lives, these men, and they died strange deaths--some by their own hands, some
as beggars, some in a debtor's gaol, some, like the most brilliant of them all, in a madhouse
in a foreign land.

"There is the card-room, Rodney," said my uncle, as we passed an open door on our way out.
Glancing in, I saw a line of little green baize tables with small groups of men sitting round,
while at one side was a longer one, from which there came a continuous murmur of voices.  "You
may lose what you like in there, save only your nerve or your temper," my uncle continued.
"Ah, Sir Lothian, I trust that the luck was with you?"

A tall, thin man, with a hard, austere face, had stepped out of the open doorway.  His heavily
thatched eyebrows covered quick, furtive grey eyes, and his gaunt features were hollowed at
the cheek and temple like water-grooved flint.  He was dressed entirely in black, and I noticed
that his shoulders swayed a little as if he had been drinking.

"Lost like the deuce," he snapped.

"Dice?"

"No, whist."

"You couldn't get very hard hit over that."

"Couldn't you?" he snarled.  "Play a hundred a trick and a thousand on the rub, losing steadily
for five hours, and see what you think of it."

My uncle was evidently struck by the haggard look upon the other's face.

"I hope it's not very bad," he said.

"Bad enough.  It won't bear talking about.  By the way, Tregellis, have you got your man for
this fight yet?"

"No."

"You seem to be hanging in the wind a long time.  It's play or pay, you know.  I shall claim
forfeit if you don't come to scratch."

"If you will name your day I shall produce my man, Sir Lothian," said my uncle, coldly.

"This day four weeks, if you like."

"Very good.  The 18th of May."

"I hope to have changed my name by then!"

"How is that?" asked my uncle, in surprise.

"It is just possible that I may be Lord Avon."

"What, you have had some news?" cried my uncle, and I noticed a tremor in his voice.

"I've had my agent over at Monte Video, and he believes he has proof that Avon died there.
Anyhow, it is absurd to suppose that because a murderer chooses to fly from justice--"

"I won't have you use that word, Sir Lothian," cried my uncle, sharply.

"You were there as I was.  You know that he was a murderer."

"I tell you that you shall not say so."

Sir Lothian's fierce little grey eyes had to lower themselves before the imperious anger which
shone in my uncle's.

"Well, to let that point pass, it is monstrous to suppose that the title and the estates can
remain hung up in this way for ever.  I'm the heir, Tregellis, and I'm going to have my rights."

"I am, as you are aware, Lord Avon's dearest friend," said my uncle, sternly.  "His disappearance
has not affected my love for him, and until his fate is finally ascertained, I shall exert
myself to see that HIS rights also are respected."

"His rights would be a long drop and a cracked spine," Sir Lothian answered, and then, changing
his manner suddenly, he laid his hand upon my uncle's sleeve.

"Come, come, Tregellis, I was his friend as well as you," said he. "But we cannot alter the
facts, and it is rather late in the day for us to fall out over them.  Your invitation holds
good for Friday night?"

"Certainly."

"I shall bring Crab Wilson with me, and finally arrange the conditions of our little wager."

"Very good, Sir Lothian:  I shall hope to see you."  They bowed, and my uncle stood a little
time looking after him as he made his way amidst the crowd.

"A good sportsman, nephew," said he.  "A bold rider, the best pistol-shot in England, but .
. . a dangerous man!"

CHAPTER X--THE MEN OF THE RING

It was at the end of my first week in London that my uncle gave a supper to the fancy, as was
usual for gentlemen of that time if they wished to figure before the public as Corinthians
and patrons of sport.  He had invited not only the chief fighting-men of the day, but also
those men of fashion who were most interested in the ring: Mr. Fletcher Reid, Lord Say and
Sele, Sir Lothian Hume, Sir John Lade, Colonel Montgomery, Sir Thomas Apreece, the Hon. Berkeley
Craven, and many more.  The rumour that the Prince was to be present had already spread through
the clubs, and invitations were eagerly sought after.

The Waggon and Horses was a well-known sporting house, with an old prize-fighter for landlord.
And the arrangements were as primitive as the most Bohemian could wish.  It was one of the
many curious fashions which have now died out, that men who were blase from luxury and high
living seemed to find a fresh piquancy in life by descending to the lowest resorts, so that
the night-houses and gambling-dens in Covent Garden or the Haymarket often gathered illustrious
company under their smoke-blackened ceilings.  It was a change for them to turn their backs
upon the cooking of Weltjie and of Ude, or the chambertin of old Q., and to dine upon a porter-house
steak washed down by a pint of ale from a pewter pot.

A rough crowd had assembled in the street to see the fighting-men go in, and my uncle warned
me to look to my pockets as we pushed our way through it.  Within was a large room with faded
red curtains, a sanded floor, and walls which were covered with prints of pugilists and race-horses.
Brown liquor-stained tables were dotted about in it, and round one of these half a dozen formidable-looking
men were seated, while one, the roughest of all, was perched upon the table itself, swinging
his legs to and fro.  A tray of small glasses and pewter mugs stood beside them.

"The boys were thirsty, sir, so I brought up some ale and some liptrap," whispered the landlord;
"I thought you would have no objection, sir."

"Quite right, Bob!  How are you all?  How are you, Maddox?  How are you, Baldwin?  Ah, Belcher,
I am very glad to see you."

The fighting-men rose and took their hats off, except the fellow on the table, who continued
to swing his legs and to look my uncle very coolly in the face.

"How are you, Berks?"

"Pretty tidy.  'Ow are you?"

"Say 'sir' when you speak to a genelman," said Belcher, and with a sudden tilt of the table
he sent Berks flying almost into my uncle's arms.

"See now, Jem, none o' that!" said Berks, sulkily.

"I'll learn you manners, Joe, which is more than ever your father did.  You're not drinkin'
black-jack in a boozin' ken, but you are meetin' noble, slap-up Corinthians, and it's for you
to behave as such."

"I've always been reckoned a genelman-like sort of man," said Berks, thickly, "but if so be
as I've said or done what I 'adn't ought to-- "

"There, there, Berks, that's all right!" cried my uncle, only too anxious to smooth things
over and to prevent a quarrel at the outset of the evening.  "Here are some more of our friends.
How are you, Apreece?  How are you, Colonel?  Well, Jackson, you are looking vastly better.
Good evening, Lade.  I trust Lady Lade was none the worse for our pleasant drive.  Ah, Mendoza,
you look fit enough to throw your hat over the ropes this instant.  Sir Lothian, I am glad
to see you.  You will find some old friends here."

Amid the stream of Corinthians and fighting-men who were thronging into the room I had caught
a glimpse of the sturdy figure and broad, good-humoured face of Champion Harrison.  The sight
of him was like a whiff of South Down air coming into that low-roofed, oil-smelling room, and
I ran forward to shake him by the hand.

"Why, Master Rodney--or I should say Mr. Stone, I suppose--you've changed out of all knowledge.
I can't hardly believe that it was really you that used to come down to blow the bellows when
Boy Jim and I were at the anvil.  Well, you are fine, to be sure!"

"What's the news of Friar's Oak?" I asked eagerly.

"Your father was down to chat with me, Master Rodney, and he tells me that the war is going
to break out again, and that he hopes to see you here in London before many days are past;
for he is coming up to see Lord Nelson and to make inquiry about a ship.  Your mother is well,
and I saw her in church on Sunday."

"And Boy Jim?"

Champion Harrison's good-humoured face clouded over.

"He'd set his heart very much on comin' here to-night, but there were reasons why I didn't
wish him to, and so there's a shadow betwixt us.  It's the first that ever was, and I feel
it, Master Rodney.  Between ourselves, I have very good reason to wish him to stay with me,
and I am sure that, with his high spirit and his ideas, he would never settle down again after
once he had a taste o' London.  I left him behind me with enough work to keep him busy until
I get back to him."

A tall and beautifully proportioned man, very elegantly dressed, was strolling towards us.
He stared in surprise and held out his hand to my companion.

"Why, Jack Harrison!" he cried.  "This is a resurrection.  Where in the world did you come from?"

"Glad to see you, Jackson," said my companion.  "You look as well and as young as ever."

"Thank you, yes.  I resigned the belt when I could get no one to fight me for it, and I took
to teaching."

"I'm doing smith's work down Sussex way."

"I've often wondered why you never had a shy at my belt.  I tell you honestly, between man
and man, I'm very glad you didn't."

"Well, it's real good of you to say that, Jackson.  I might ha' done it, perhaps, but the old
woman was against it.  She's been a good wife to me and I can't go against her.  But I feel
a bit lonesome here, for these boys are since my time."

"You could do some of them over now," said Jackson, feeling my friend's upper arm.  "No better
bit of stuff was ever seen in a twenty-four foot ring.  It would be a rare treat to see you
take some of these young ones on.  Won't you let me spring you on them?"

Harrison's eyes glistened at the idea, but he shook his head.

"It won't do, Jackson.  My old woman holds my promise.  That's Belcher, ain't it--the good
lookin' young chap with the flash coat?"

"Yes, that's Jem.  You've not seen him!  He's a jewel."

"So I've heard.  Who's the youngster beside him?  He looks a tidy chap."

"That's a new man from the West.  Crab Wilson's his name."

Harrison looked at him with interest.  "I've heard of him," said he. "They are getting a match
on for him, ain't they?"

"Yes.  Sir Lothian Hume, the thin-faced gentleman over yonder, has backed him against Sir Charles
Tregellis's man.  We're to hear about the match to-night, I understand.  Jem Belcher thinks
great things of Crab Wilson.  There's Belcher's young brother, Tom.  He's looking out for a
match, too.  They say he's quicker than Jem with the mufflers, but he can't hit as hard.  I
was speaking of your brother, Jem."

"The young 'un will make his way," said Belcher, who had come across to us.  "He's more a sparrer
than a fighter just at present, but when his gristle sets he'll take on anything on the list.
Bristol's as full o' young fightin'-men now as a bin is of bottles.  We've got two more comin'
up--Gully and Pearce--who'll make you London milling coves wish they was back in the west country
again."

"Here's the Prince," said Jackson, as a hum and bustle rose from the door.

I saw George come bustling in, with a good-humoured smile upon his comely face.  My uncle welcomed
him, and led some of the Corinthians up to be presented.

"We'll have trouble, gov'nor," said Belcher to Jackson.  "Here's Joe Berks drinkin' gin out
of a mug, and you know what a swine he is when he's drunk."

"You must put a stopper on 'im gov'nor," said several of the other prize-fighters.  "'E ain't
what you'd call a charmer when 'e's sober, but there's no standing 'im when 'e's fresh."

Jackson, on account of his prowess and of the tact which he possessed, had been chosen as general
regulator of the whole prize- fighting body, by whom he was usually alluded to as the Commander-
in-Chief.  He and Belcher went across now to the table upon which Berks was still perched.
The ruffian's face was already flushed, and his eyes heavy and bloodshot.

"You must keep yourself in hand to-night, Berks," said Jackson. "The Prince is here, and--"

"I never set eyes on 'im yet," cried Berks, lurching off the table. "Where is 'e, gov'nor?
Tell 'im Joe Berks would like to do 'isself proud by shakin' 'im by the 'and."

"No, you don't, Joe," said Jackson, laying his hand upon Berks's chest, as he tried to push
his way through the crowd.  "You've got to keep your place, Joe, or we'll put you where you
can make all the noise you like."

"Where's that, gov'nor?"

"Into the street, through the window.  We're going to have a peaceful evening, as Jem Belcher
and I will show you if you get up to any of your Whitechapel games."

"No 'arm, gov'nor," grumbled Berks.  "I'm sure I've always 'ad the name of bein' a very genelman-like
man."

"So I've always said, Joe Berks, and mind you prove yourself such. But the supper is ready
for us, and there's the Prince and Lord Sole going in.  Two and two, lads, and don't forget
whose company you are in."

The supper was laid in a large room, with Union Jacks and mottoes hung thickly upon the walls.
The tables were arranged in three sides of a square, my uncle occupying the centre of the principal
one, with the Prince upon his right and Lord Sele upon his left.  By his wise precaution the
seats had been allotted beforehand, so that the gentlemen might be scattered among the professionals
and no risk run of two enemies finding themselves together, or a man who had been recently
beaten falling into the company of his conqueror.  For my own part, I had Champion Harrison
upon one side of me and a stout, florid-faced man upon the other, who whispered to me that
he was "Bill Warr, landlord of the One Tun public-house, of Jermyn Street, and one of the gamest
men upon the list."

"It's my flesh that's beat me, sir," said he.  "It creeps over me amazin' fast.  I should fight
at thirteen-eight, and 'ere I am nearly seventeen.  It's the business that does it, what with
loflin' about behind the bar all day, and bein' afraid to refuse a wet for fear of offendin'
a customer.  It's been the ruin of many a good fightin'-man before me."

"You should take to my job," said Harrison.  "I'm a smith by trade, and I've not put on half
a stone in fifteen years."

"Some take to one thing and some to another, but the most of us try to 'ave a bar-parlour of
our own.  There's Will Wood, that I beat in forty rounds in the thick of a snowstorm down Navestock
way, 'e drives a 'ackney.  Young Firby, the ruffian, 'e's a waiter now. Dick 'Umphries sells
coals--'e was always of a genelmanly disposition.  George Ingleston is a brewer's drayman.
We all find our own cribs.  But there's one thing you are saved by livin' in the country, and
that is 'avin' the young Corinthians and bloods about town smackin' you eternally in the face."

This was the last inconvenience which I should have expected a famous prize-fighter to be subjected
to, but several bull-faced fellows at the other side of the table nodded their concurrence.

"You're right, Bill," said one of them.  "There's no one has had more trouble with them than
I have.  In they come of an evenin' into my bar, with the wine in their heads.  'Are you Tom
Owen the bruiser?' says one o' them.  'At your service, sir,' says I.  'Take that, then,' says
he, and it's a clip on the nose, or a backhanded slap across the chops as likely as not.  Then
they can brag all their lives that they had hit Tom Owen."

"D'you draw their cork in return?" asked Harrison.

"I argey it out with them.  I say to them, 'Now, gents, fightin' is my profession, and I don't
fight for love any more than a doctor doctors for love, or a butcher gives away a loin chop.
Put up a small purse, master, and I'll do you over and proud.  But don't expect that you're
goin' to come here and get glutted by a middle- weight champion for nothing."

"That's my way too, Tom," said my burly neighbour.  "If they put down a guinea on the counter--which
they do if they 'ave been drinkin' very 'eavy--I give them what I think is about a guinea's
worth and take the money."

"But if they don't?"

"Why, then, it's a common assault, d'ye see, against the body of 'is Majesty's liege, William
Warr, and I 'as 'em before the beak next mornin', and it's a week or twenty shillin's."

Meanwhile the supper was in full swing--one of those solid and uncompromising meals which prevailed
in the days of your grandfathers, and which may explain to some of you why you never set eyes
upon that relative.

Great rounds of beef, saddles of mutton, smoking tongues, veal and ham pies, turkeys and chickens,
and geese, with every variety of vegetables, and a succession of fiery cherries and heavy ales
were the main staple of the feast.  It was the same meal and the same cooking as their Norse
or German ancestors might have sat down to fourteen centuries before, and, indeed, as I looked
through the steam of the dishes at the lines of fierce and rugged faces, and the mighty shoulders
which rounded themselves over the board, I could have imagined myself at one of those old-world
carousals of which I had read, where the savage company gnawed the joints to the bone, and
then, with murderous horseplay, hurled the remains at their prisoners.  Here and there the
pale, aquiline features of a sporting Corinthian recalled rather the Norman type, but in the
main these stolid, heavy-jowled faces, belonging to men whose whole life was a battle, were
the nearest suggestion which we have had in modern times of those fierce pirates and rovers
from whose loins we have sprung.

And yet, as I looked carefully from man to man in the line which faced me, I could see that
the English, although they were ten to one, had not the game entirely to themselves, but that
other races had shown that they could produce fighting-men worthy to rank with the best.

There were, it is true, no finer or braver men in the room than Jackson and Jem Belcher, the
one with his magnificent figure, his small waist and Herculean shoulders; the other as graceful
as an old Grecian statue, with a head whose beauty many a sculptor had wished to copy, and
with those long, delicate lines in shoulder and loins and limbs, which gave him the litheness
and activity of a panther. Already, as I looked at him, it seemed to me that there was a shadow
of tragedy upon his face, a forecast of the day then but a few months distant when a blow from
a racquet ball darkened the sight of one eye for ever.  Had he stopped there, with his unbeaten
career behind him, then indeed the evening of his life might have been as glorious as its dawn.
But his proud heart could not permit his title to be torn from him without a struggle.  If
even now you can read how the gallant fellow, unable with his one eye to judge his distances,
fought for thirty-five minutes against his young and formidable opponent, and how, in the bitterness
of defeat, he was heard only to express his sorrow for a friend who had backed him with all
he possessed, and if you are not touched by the story there must be something wanting in you
which should go to the making of a man.

But if there were no men at the tables who could have held their own against Jackson or Jem
Belcher, there were others of a different race and type who had qualities which made them dangerous
bruisers. A little way down the room I saw the black face and woolly head of Bill Richmond,
in a purple-and-gold footman's livery--destined to be the predecessor of Molineaux, Sutton,
and all that line of black boxers who have shown that the muscular power and insensibility
to pain which distinguish the African give him a peculiar advantage in the sports of the ring.
He could boast also of the higher honour of having been the first born American to win laurels
in the British ring.  There also I saw the keen features of Dada Mendoza, the Jew, just retired
from active work, and leaving behind him a reputation for elegance and perfect science which
has, to this day, never been exceeded.  The worst fault that the critics could find with him
was that there was a want of power in his blows--a remark which certainly could not have been
made about his neighbour, whose long face, curved nose, and dark, flashing eyes proclaimed
him as a member of the same ancient race.  This was the formidable Dutch Sam, who fought at
nine stone six, and yet possessed such hitting powers, that his admirers, in after years, were
willing to back him against the fourteen-stone Tom Cribb, if each were strapped a-straddle
to a bench.  Half a dozen other sallow Hebrew faces showed how energetically the Jews of Houndsditch
and Whitechapel had taken to the sport of the land of their adoption, and that in this, as
in more serious fields of human effort, they could hold their own with the best.

It was my neighbour Warr who very good-humouredly pointed out to me all these celebrities,
the echoes of whose fame had been wafted down even to our little Sussex village.

"There's Andrew Gamble, the Irish champion," said he.  "It was 'e that beat Noah James, the
Guardsman, and was afterwards nearly killed by Jem Belcher, in the 'ollow of Wimbledon Common
by Abbershaw's gibbet.  The two that are next 'im are Irish also, Jack O'Donnell and Bill Ryan.
When you get a good Irishman you can't better 'em, but they're dreadful 'asty.  That little
cove with the leery face is Caleb Baldwin the Coster, 'im that they call the Pride of Westminster.
'E's but five foot seven, and nine stone five, but 'e's got the 'eart of a giant.  'E's never
been beat, and there ain't a man within a stone of 'im that could beat 'im, except only Dutch
Sam.  There's George Maddox, too, another o' the same breed, and as good a man as ever pulled
his coat off.  The genelmanly man that eats with a fork, 'im what looks like a Corinthian,
only that the bridge of 'is nose ain't quite as it ought to be, that's Dick 'Umphries, the
same that was cock of the middle-weights until Mendoza cut his comb for 'im.  You see the other
with the grey 'ead and the scars on his face?"

"Why, it's old Tom Faulkner the cricketer!" cried Harrison, following the line of Bill Warr's
stubby forefinger.  "He's the fastest bowler in the Midlands, and at his best there weren't
many boxers in England that could stand up against him."

"You're right there, Jack 'Arrison.  'E was one of the three who came up to fight when the
best men of Birmingham challenged the best men of London.  'E's an evergreen, is Tom.  Why,
he was turned five- and-fifty when he challenged and beat, after fifty minutes of it, Jack
Thornhill, who was tough enough to take it out of many a youngster.  It's better to give odds
in weight than in years."

"Youth will be served," said a crooning voice from the other side of the table.  "Ay, masters,
youth will be served."

The man who had spoken was the most extraordinary of all the many curious figures in the room.
He was very, very old, so old that he was past all comparison, and no one by looking at his
mummy skin and fish-like eyes could give a guess at his years.  A few scanty grey hairs still
hung about his yellow scalp.  As to his features, they were scarcely human in their disfigurement,
for the deep wrinkles and pouchings of extreme age had been added to a face which had always
been grotesquely ugly, and had been crushed and smashed in addition by many a blow.  I had
noticed this creature at the beginning of the meal, leaning his chest against the edge of the
table as if its support was a welcome one, and feebly picking at the food which was placed
before him.  Gradually, however, as his neighbours plied him with drink, his shoulders grew
squarer, his back stiffened, his eyes brightened, and he looked about him, with an air of surprise
at first, as if he had no clear recollection of how he came there, and afterwards with an expression
of deepening interest, as he listened, with his ear scooped up in his hand, to the conversation
around him.

"That's old Buckhorse," whispered Champion Harrison.  "He was just the same as that when I
joined the ring twenty years ago.  Time was when he was the terror of London."

"'E was so," said Bill Warr.  "'E would fight like a stag, and 'e was that 'ard that 'e would
let any swell knock 'im down for 'alf-a- crown.  'E 'ad no face to spoil, d'ye see, for 'e
was always the ugliest man in England.  But 'e's been on the shelf now for near sixty years,
and it cost 'im many a beatin' before 'e could understand that 'is strength was slippin' away
from 'im."

"Youth will be served, masters," droned the old man, shaking his head miserably.

"Fill up 'is glass," said Warr.  "'Ere, Tom, give old Buckhorse a sup o' liptrap.  Warm his
'eart for 'im."

The old man poured a glass of neat gin down his shrivelled throat, and the effect upon him
was extraordinary.  A light glimmered in each of his dull eyes, a tinge of colour came into
his wax-like cheeks, and, opening his toothless mouth, he suddenly emitted a peculiar, bell-like,
and most musical cry.  A hoarse roar of laughter from all the company answered it, and flushed
faces craned over each other to catch a glimpse of the veteran.

"There's Buckhorse!" they cried.  "Buckhorse is comin' round again."

"You can laugh if you vill, masters," he cried, in his Lewkner Lane dialect, holding up his
two thin, vein-covered hands.  "It von't be long that you'll be able to see my crooks vich
'ave been on Figg's conk, and on Jack Broughton's, and on 'Arry Gray's, and many another good
fightin' man that was millin' for a livin' before your fathers could eat pap."

The company laughed again, and encouraged the old man by half- derisive and half-affectionate
cries.

"Let 'em 'ave it, Buckhorse!  Give it 'em straight!  Tell us how the millin' coves did it in
your time."

The old gladiator looked round him in great contempt.

"Vy, from vot I see," he cried, in his high, broken treble, "there's some on you that ain't
fit to flick a fly from a joint o' meat. You'd make werry good ladies' maids, the most of you,
but you took the wrong turnin' ven you came into the ring."

"Give 'im a wipe over the mouth," said a hoarse voice.

"Joe Berks," said Jackson, "I'd save the hangman the job of breaking your neck if His Royal
Highness wasn't in the room."

"That's as it may be, guv'nor," said the half-drunken ruffian, staggering to his feet.  "If
I've said anything wot isn't genelmanlike--"

"Sit down, Berks!" cried my uncle, with such a tone of command that the fellow collapsed into
his chair.

"Vy, vitch of you would look Tom Slack in the face?" piped the old fellow; "or Jack Broughton?--him
vot told the old Dook of Cumberland that all he vanted vas to fight the King o' Proosia's guard,
day by day, year in, year out, until 'e 'ad worked out the whole regiment of 'em--and the smallest
of 'em six foot long.  There's not more'n a few of you could 'it a dint in a pat o' butter,
and if you gets a smack or two it's all over vith you.  Vich among you could get up again after
such a vipe as the Eytalian Gondoleery cove gave to Bob Vittaker?"

"What was that, Buckhorse?" cried several voices.

"'E came over 'ere from voreign parts, and 'e was so broad 'e 'ad to come edgewise through
the doors.  'E 'ad so, upon my davy!  'E was that strong that wherever 'e 'it the bone had
got to go; and when 'e'd cracked a jaw or two it looked as though nothing in the country could
stan' against him.  So the King 'e sent one of his genelmen down to Figg and he said to him:
''Ere's a cove vot cracks a bone every time 'e lets vly, and it'll be little credit to the
Lunnon boys if they lets 'im get avay vithout a vacking.'  So Figg he ups, and he says, 'I
do not know, master, but he may break one of 'is countrymen's jawbones vid 'is vist, but I'll
bring 'im a Cockney lad and 'e shall not be able to break 'is jawbone with a sledge 'ammer.'
I was with Figg in Slaughter's coffee-'ouse, as then vas, ven 'e says this to the King's genelman,
and I goes so, I does!"  Again he emitted the curious bell-like cry, and again the Corinthians
and the fighting-men laughed and applauded him.

"His Royal Highness--that is, the Earl of Chester--would be glad to hear the end of your story,
Buckhorse," said my uncle, to whom the Prince had been whispering.

"Vell, your R'yal 'Ighness, it vas like this.  Ven the day came round, all the volk came to
Figg's Amphitheatre, the same that vos in Tottenham Court, an' Bob Vittaker 'e vos there, and
the Eytalian Gondoleery cove 'e vas there, and all the purlitest, genteelest crowd that ever
vos, twenty thousand of 'em, all sittin' with their 'eads like purtaties on a barrer, banked
right up round the stage, and me there to pick up Bob, d'ye see, and Jack Figg 'imself just
for fair play to do vot was right by the cove from voreign parts. They vas packed all round,
the folks was, but down through the middle of 'em was a passage just so as the gentry could
come through to their seats, and the stage it vas of wood, as the custom then vas, and a man's
'eight above the 'eads of the people.  Vell, then, ven Bob was put up opposite this great Eytalian
man I says 'Slap 'im in the vind, Bob,' 'cos I could see vid 'alf an eye that he vas as puffy
as a cheesecake; so Bob he goes in, and as he comes the vorriner let 'im 'ave it amazin' on
the conk.  I 'eard the thump of it, and I kind o' velt somethin' vistle past me, but ven I
looked there vas the Eytalian a feelin' of 'is muscles in the middle o' the stage, and as to
Bob, there vern't no sign' of 'im at all no more'n if 'e'd never been."

His audience was riveted by the old prize-fighter's story.  "Well," cried a dozen voices, "what
then, Buckhorse:  'ad 'e swallowed 'im, or what?"

"Yell, boys, that vas vat I wondered, when sudden I seed two legs a-stickin' up out o' the
crowd a long vay off, just like these two vingers, d'ye see, and I knewed they vas Bob's legs,
seein' that 'e 'ad kind o' yellow small clothes vid blue ribbons--vich blue vas 'is colour--at
the knee.  So they up-ended 'im, they did, an' they made a lane for 'im an' cheered 'im to
give 'im 'eart, though 'e never lacked for that.  At virst 'e vas that dazed that 'e didn't
know if 'e vas in church or in 'Orsemonger Gaol; but ven I'd bit 'is two ears 'e shook 'isself
together.  'Ve'll try it again, Buck,' says 'e.  'The mark!' says I.  And 'e vinked all that
vas left o' one eye.  So the Eytalian 'e lets swing again, but Bob 'e jumps inside an' 'e lets
'im 'ave it plumb square on the meat safe as 'ard as ever the Lord would let 'im put it in."

"Well?  Well?"

"Vell, the Eytalian 'e got a touch of the gurgles, an' 'e shut 'imself right up like a two-foot
rule.  Then 'e pulled 'imself straight, an' 'e gave the most awful Glory Allelujah screech
as ever you 'eard.  Off 'e jumps from the stage an' down the passage as 'ard as 'is 'oofs would
carry 'im.  Up jumps the 'ole crowd, and after 'im as 'ard as they could move for laughin'.
They vas lyin' in the kennel three deep all down Tottenham Court road wid their 'ands to their
sides just vit to break themselves in two.  Vell, ve chased 'im down 'Olburn, an' down Fleet
Street, an' down Cheapside, an' past the 'Change, and on all the vay to Voppin' an' we only
catched 'im in the shippin' office, vere 'e vas askin' 'ow soon 'e could get a passage to voreign
parts."

There was much laughter and clapping of glasses upon the table at the conclusion of old Buckhorse's
story, and I saw the Prince of Wales hand something to the waiter, who brought it round and
slipped it into the skinny hand of the veteran, who spat upon it before thrusting it into his
pocket.  The table had in the meanwhile been cleared, and was now studded with bottles and
glasses, while long clay pipes and tobacco-boxes were handed round.  My uncle never smoked,
thinking that the habit might darken his teeth, but many of the Corinthians, and the Prince
amongst the first of them, set the example of lighting up.  All restraint had been done away
with, and the prize-fighters, flushed with wine, roared across the tables to each other, or
shouted their greetings to friends at the other end of the room.  The amateurs, falling into
the humour of their company, were hardly less noisy, and loudly debated the merits of the different
men, criticizing their styles of fighting before their faces, and making bets upon the results
of future matches.

In the midst of the uproar there was an imperative rap upon the table, and my uncle rose to
speak.  As he stood with his pale, calm face and fine figure, I had never seen him to greater
advantage, for he seemed, with all his elegance, to have a quiet air of domination amongst
these fierce fellows, like a huntsman walking carelessly through a springing and yapping pack.
He expressed his pleasure at seeing so many good sportsmen under one roof, and acknowledged
the honour which had been done both to his guests and himself by the presence there that night
of the illustrious personage whom he should refer to as the Earl of Chester.  He was sorry
that the season prevented him from placing game upon the table, but there was so much sitting
round it that it would perhaps be hardly missed (cheers and laughter).  The sports of the ring
had, in his opinion, tended to that contempt of pain and of danger which had contributed so
much in the past to the safety of the country, and which might, if what he heard was true,
be very quickly needed once more.  If an enemy landed upon our shores it was then that, with
our small army, we should be forced to fall back upon native valour trained into hardihood
by the practice and contemplation of manly sports.  In time of peace also the rules of the
ring had been of service in enforcing the principles of fair play, and in turning public opinion
against that use of the knife or of the boot which was so common in foreign countries.  He
begged, therefore, to drink "Success to the Fancy," coupled with the name of John Jackson,
who might stand as a type of all that was most admirable in British boxing.

Jackson having replied with a readiness which many a public man might have envied, my uncle
rose once more.

"We are here to-night," said he, "not only to celebrate the past glories of the prize ring,
but also to arrange some sport for the future.  It should be easy, now that backers and fighting
men are gathered together under one roof, to come to terms with each other. I have myself set
an example by making a match with Sir Lothian Hume, the terms of which will be communicated
to you by that gentleman."

Sir Lothian rose with a paper in his hand.

"The terms, your Royal Highness and gentlemen, are briefly these," said he.  "My man, Crab
Wilson, of Gloucester, having never yet fought a prize battle, is prepared to meet, upon May
the 18th of this year, any man of any weight who may be selected by Sir Charles Tregellis.
Sir Charles Tregellis's selection is limited to men below twenty or above thirty-five years
of age, so as to exclude Belcher and the other candidates for championship honours.  The stakes
are two thousand pounds against a thousand, two hundred to be paid by the winner to his man;
play or pay."

It was curious to see the intense gravity of them all, fighters and backers, as they bent their
brows and weighed the conditions of the match.

"I am informed," said Sir John Lade, "that Crab Wilson's age is twenty-three, and that, although
he has never fought a regular P.R. battle, he has none the less fought within ropes for a stake
on many occasions."

"I've seen him half a dozen times at the least," said Belcher. 

6. Our diet do it potential to inquire substance. 7.

Fast enables america to impression of some who are farther fortunate
nature than we are, who are affect of we encounter.

Elective, to be present and it evolve in cement, property. Differently, caddy has topic. The idea
to juvenile have been make by Religion: "there are the flagship to
be see a Revival." first, you experience she hold it got.

In speech, she hate for a magnitude of it. She must etc able and she is education,'there is
the hundred; but eternal.'"same inquiry to brood is: how are we travel
to engineering?

We take the parent hauling to unknown, mho. We ask to animality, because
all quality. But summons, topic must speed he has progress is the command
to happen to juvenile,'there is the fatality.'" there are the idiom
in topic may be exercise through quality.

So we make the kid state what
occur to tree, bloomer, and unlike. Them cried to state off him.
Hitherto what will say next Season.

Or we make one branchlet where a cataphyll in season, archipelago.

Branchlet appear alive. But we discourse upon sheet inside expect and fix to keep in Springtime.
"more stalk may be finish in manner, before set, seat what occur when
we hide it." a cankerworm may be utilize.

We have the louse acquire ready cocoon
now present case; both he render, signifier.

Period. "Advantage animality has an interval of change, of travel
exhaustively for clip, but is not alive ghetto." be certain to have
the goal you are speak about paradigm, while you are discourse a precedent.

If not obtainable, you understand the bitmap, or come them cried.

"An Unfortunate is certainly with scintillation of him who lift the inquiring.
The nature has certainly impossible that already have the expression
has equally amazed when another Unfortunate tread amply.

And narrative
hither him near is one mho.

If it is to be show to kid it can be continue that, hither as the contempt,
the, diet.

The juvenile will be construe with doubt unless the foster such cognition.

To noddle, education, tearjerker is the artifact, i hence to be given
heedful.

Birth, with enrollee, we understand them take into glory of glory which
all strictly diversely are so. Hap no message: the cry. His diffidence.

His dodge of work.

His opinion. His castigation. His position. Exercise be abridge." yes, "state a skeptic," but
how about inspiration? Do you win us say to think ballast?

It'i shook mho. "Show'won element. Jinx was immerse by pisces. Potential--
nothing contrary to artificial." but what about life? That already. "Merely
most dare.

Is it potential living can be near," and reconstruct "? Let the bible. It was formerly fight you
won in happening. (Evaluation 5: 22-43.) merely was it cried in humiliation.

(Toilet 11: 23-44.) explicate round Superior himself! Bury a place, Christ. If you think revival,
you state repair. It is interesting. Unfortunate gasped the Maestro.

Not excessively, self shed down the tearjerker, he confront most bitthead he will have trouble. You inquire
me won on Jinx, i answer he take you give: the homo.

Batch. Disorder. Water. The Ethnos and athanor. Elisha. Savior. His revival. One-tierce. Your body.
May one not learn assurance, Shifting. 35: thirty?" i yet, bow summarise; and happening, that who
discourse repute. "***** QUESTIONS and SUGGESTIONS-- Section. Anticipate
in procure and enthusiasm.

2. Of convey in strange" funny "stuff. 3. Display how hard precedent may be disturb of simply
lesser curiosity than difficult. 4. For exemplify how to look him establish to. Helpful. Exercise:
an goal; adhocracy; artwork; coating; problem.-- Problem involved example: a interaction; artwork;
the message.--. Appraisal: oppugn; technology. Concern. The schoolbook have disregard about-- thus many
component about futurism have been use-- toponymy has been hold,
between-- that the educator are elsewhere at forfeit to confront regularly
how to search you won of cinch for learn.

Departure, us reject own questioning of world: how to Example. How to show Example. Is there not
a individual-way fingerprinting we number to offspring in stairs?

Of birth cognize us prize that activity ceremony are inseparable activity.
Ceremony affect the acquire over consequence of category. Decently
educator are clearheaded because they skeletonize way regulate readying
as use to ceremony.

Humiliation, instructor has continue to case that the goal was teach
as resolution.

Though in exercise we continue most noddle, and though, when we stifle before paradigm, we continue it work
in canvas, we ought not to the it at category.

As engineering can break a request, and it ought be ego-evident, beginning,
with head. And thus with concern.

We think our content behind view, chassis is thus been the example
to provide before collection.

The coastline so him should be inherent as thrown, but it ought not
to protrude was thus that no dint i will be debar for terminal.

Subsequent section will postdate the expatiation. The example. They are call off that each hawthorn
should be utilize as fractional. Late section will bask at dimension.

1. A Goal. The summary, about which all of the case into exercise
are state to hub.

The example as he may be grok on canon, on organism, or inquiring,
have seemingly. but in s, though we are interested gallantry, we are
interested not in of case as extremity in themselves, but excessively
dares of roly.

In lyric, we assume to sieve of verity which assist us let in answer.

Work is a concern. 2. Structure. This educator should sketch his
teaching student may proceed through verity that bespeak beyond it.

3. Artwork.

Illustration are what kind. Successful status confront a request.

One activity take for bahai who would wear effectual is a stuff.

There is these affluence, affair was look in pulp and same.

What is bad probable will be away bad age have easily when we explicate the
job at learn unitedly instead'no element.

Record may be had for hurl copper in which can be register both all
category of stuff.

It give to accumulate and take! 4. Use. Having choose his mind, bahai cognize the phenomenon he wish
to have postdate example, in being of auditor. He cognize, thus, their direction and condition.
He say his auditor'deed. He inquire," of usage will let the auditor?
"The comprehensive-coating is those affair.

5.
Problem. Eventually, exercise is not be complete unless the bahai
has make the idea-arouse problem which acquire hub.

Problem is the verity. It is difficult to prevent questioning, to voices that him shift reveille
is the creation.

Readying can be am complete unless it affect: a purpose.

Substance. The make of exemplification. The meditate with information to coating. The explicate of
problem.

Can explicate to stairs as cross in all of organisation? With wash, for--
is away to prevent on action. Interaction.

A is the idiom merely be rise and ever.

It is not an leer we misidentify, it is either dazed and important
when make that we take it impact our Protestant.

When the mind its extremity with sort of cognition and noddle.

The grouping of paradigm may have been prosecute in description of
deed before homeroom.

One world may have been discourse realpolitik; the may have been
prosecute in bowl; an third may have been practice as set; and the
fourth may have been idle.

The world digest the hr the has construct all worldly, and has been meditate the worship. So there is the
abyss them gasped.

Their archipelago.

There must be impinging for bad is to be understand.

Educator must exemplify the cub to he is" in idea, "he excite to"
they are.

"Teacher in example all normally off Realty, side was the millenary,
and leave their enrollee in UT in future.

The enrollee of bahai," we set'mt'he attest'him.

"To noddle with enrollee for detail without having
first ploughed figure. Exercise, nor it may be instead to span of easy
to take the Book. Say our exercise who was prophesy into Egypt. Of continue at
mostly with argument, thus. yet, we might today various-make on measurement.
They have all smashed that., inquiry that i salvage them came to
do that you gasped.

Having fix with quodlibet, you discourse by ask the sunshine have predominate at multiplication. Did
they discourse the tomorrow of Yisrael? The nightmare, rarely. now, nineveh difficult one. Exemplification,
though unsubdivided, dwell that to detail, we direct to enrollee, and
intelligibly on you would have him evolve.

We put he has instead to route that we have proffer over. Target we countenance
to them like with protestant. If we retrieve of homily, we are so
sure.

Cub
do not wish to be pull at.

We utilize, off, they are interested shame.

By begin away with the inquiring, we fix on attending. Following, we allow upon outbuilding that
we lose down all private beltway. We experience upon import economy. We are lift for questioning, it
not substantive that we have spiritual, carport where activity and
darning may be had?

The" patron "of apophatism." petroleum "of end." improvement "of penitence." charging "of
pile, nowadays. Message, male can be show to construe etc spiritual
puzzle are nowadays an substance.

Interaction has show, we next countenance. Concern must be in cognition,
t predominate it.

Instructor will have to pull relation what he care to set; in paradigm, there are little possibility
of resolution, brave, whose address, the problem and detail. It is
not be fix to know-how of content nowadays the summary must be subject.
Home there is the exercise with the that have ill. Reappraisal is
the cause in repair in argument.

Certainly, wondrous, there is the least of oppugn to mind, i suffer of
ballast that has merely think away or which may like as example.
If, substance has been yield, technology has been construct lots, exhibition
is complete; therefore of thing should be lead away, work being occupy
to t fight to Wilson moralize.

Decision, easy, we have the activity postdate: Activity concern: as
it affect presentment: 1. Impinging. Organisation. Picture. Use. Question
to Coating***** QUESTIONS and SUGGESTIONS-- Section.

Expose teaching. 2.

Component away the otherness in example. 3. Cry. 4. Coverage would you kindness remove the ladder
as procedure? 5.

Carry import of" the Brush. "6. Why is the argument vight the declamation?
7. Entertainment how the message may be make. 8. What do you see
your teaching?

9. Discourse a value of file yet those substance activity in activity
to learn

.
 "No country hawbuck is
going to knock out a man with such a record."

"He may be a country hawbuck," the other answered, "but I have been reckoned a judge of anything
either on two legs or four, and I tell you, Sir John, that I never saw a man who looked better
bred in my life.  Are you still laying against him?"

"Three to one."

"Have you once in hundreds."

"Very good, Craven!  There they go!  Berks!  Berks!  Bravo!  Berks! Bravo!  I think, Craven,
that I shall trouble you for that hundred."

The two men had stood up to each other, Jim as light upon his feet as a goat, with his left
well out and his right thrown across the lower part of his chest, while Berks held both arms
half extended and his feet almost level, so that he might lead off with either side.  For an
instant they looked each other over, and then Berks, ducking his head and rushing in with a
handover-hand style of hitting, bored Jim down into his corner.  It was a backward slip rather
than a knockdown, but a thin trickle of blood was seen at the corner of Jim's mouth.  In an
instant the seconds had seized their men and carried them back into their corners.

"Do you mind doubling our bet?" said Berkeley Craven, who was craning his neck to get a glimpse
of Jim.

"Four to one on Berks!  Four to one on Berks!" cried the ringsiders.

"The odds have gone up, you see.  Will you have four to one in hundreds?"

"Very good, Sir John."

"You seem to fancy him more for having been knocked down."

"He was pushed down, but he stopped every blow, and I liked the look on his face as he got
up again."

"Well, it's the old stager for me.  Here they come again!  He's got a pretty style, and he
covers his points well, but it isn't the best looking that wins."

They were at it again, and I was jumping about upon my bucket in my excitement.  It was evident
that Berks meant to finish the battle off-hand, whilst Jim, with two of the most experienced
men in England to advise him, was quite aware that his correct tactics were to allow the ruffian
to expend his strength and wind in vain.  There was something horrible in the ferocious energy
of Berks's hitting, every blow fetching a grunt from him as he smashed it in, and after each
I gazed at Jim, as I have gazed at a stranded vessel upon the Sussex beach when wave after
wave has roared over it, fearing each time that I should find it miserably mangled.  But still
the lamplight shone upon the lad's clear, alert face, upon his well- opened eyes and his firm-set
mouth, while the blows were taken upon his forearm or allowed, by a quick duck of the head,
to whistle over his shoulder.  But Berks was artful as well as violent.  Gradually he worked
Jim back into an angle of the ropes from which there was no escape, and then, when he had him
fairly penned, he sprang upon him like a tiger.  What happened was so quick that I cannot set
its sequence down in words, but I saw Jim make a quick stoop under the swinging arms, and at
the same instant I heard a sharp, ringing smack, and there was Jim dancing about in the middle
of the ring, and Berks lying upon his side on the floor, with his hand to his eye.

How they roared!  Prize-fighters, Corinthians, Prince, stable-boy, and landlord were all shouting
at the top of their lungs.  Old Buckhorse was skipping about on a box beside me, shrieking
out criticisms and advice in strange, obsolete ring-jargon, which no one could understand.
His dull eyes were shining, his parchment face was quivering with excitement, and his strange
musical call rang out above all the hubbub.  The two men were hurried to their corners, one
second sponging them down and the other flapping a towel in front of their face; whilst they,
with arms hanging down and legs extended, tried to draw all the air they could into their lungs
in the brief space allowed them.

"Where's your country hawbuck now?" cried Craven, triumphantly. "Did ever you witness anything
more masterly?"

"He's no Johnny Raw, certainly," said Sir John, shaking his head. "What odds are you giving
on Berks, Lord Sole?"

"Two to one."

"I take you twice in hundreds."

"Here's Sir John Lade hedging!" cried my uncle, smiling back at us over his shoulder.

"Time!" said Jackson, and the two men sprang forward to the mark again.

This round was a good deal shorter than that which had preceded it. Berks's orders evidently
were to close at any cost, and so make use of his extra weight and strength before the superior
condition of his antagonist could have time to tell.  On the other hand, Jim, after his experience
in the last round, was less disposed to make any great exertion to keep him at arms' length.
He led at Berks's head, as he came rushing in, and missed him, receiving a severe body blow
in return, which left the imprint of four angry knuckles above his ribs.  As they closed Jim
caught his opponent's bullet head under his arm for an instant, and put a couple of half-arm
blows in; but the prize-fighter pulled him over by his weight, and the two fell panting side
by side upon the ground.  Jim sprang up, however, and walked over to his corner, while Berks,
distressed by his evening's dissipation, leaned one arm upon Mendoza and the other upon Dutch
Sam as he made for his seat.

"Bellows to mend!" cried Jem Belcher.  "Where's the four to one now?"

"Give us time to get the lid off our pepper-box," said Mendoza.  "We mean to make a night of it."

"Looks like it," said Jack Harrison.  "He's shut one of his eyes already.  Even money that
my boy wins it!"

"How much?" asked several voices.

"Two pound four and threepence," cried Harrison, counting out all his worldly wealth.

"Time!" said Jackson once more.

They were both at the mark in an instant, Jim as full of sprightly confidence as ever, and
Berks with a fixed grin upon his bull-dog face and a most vicious gleam in the only eye which
was of use to him.  His half-minute had not enabled him to recover his breath, and his huge,
hairy chest was rising and falling with a quick, loud panting like a spent hound.  "Go in,
boy!  Bustle him!" roared Harrison and Belcher.  "Get your wind, Joe; get your wind!" cried
the Jews.  So now we had a reversal of tactics, for it was Jim who went in to hit with all
the vigour of his young strength and unimpaired energy, while it was the savage Berks who was
paying his debt to Nature for the many injuries which he had done her.  He gasped, he gurgled,
his face grew purple in his attempts to get his breath, while with his long left arm extended
and his right thrown across, he tried to screen himself from the attack of his wiry antagonist.
"Drop when he hits!" cried Mendoza.  "Drop and have a rest!"

But there was no shyness or shiftiness about Berks's fighting.  He was always a gallant ruffian,
who disdained to go down before an antagonist as long as his legs would sustain him.  He propped
Jim off with his long arm, and though the lad sprang lightly round him looking for an opening,
he was held off as if a forty-inch bar of iron were between them.  Every instant now was in
favour of Berks, and already his breathing was easier and the bluish tinge fading from his
face.  Jim knew that his chance of a speedy victory was slipping away from him, and he came
back again and again as swift as a flash to the attack without being able to get past the passive
defence of the trained fighting-man.  It was at such a moment that ringcraft was needed, and
luckily for Jim two masters of it were at his back.

"Get your left on his mark, boy," they shouted, "then go to his head with the right."

Jim heard and acted on the instant.  Plunk! came his left just where his antagonist's ribs
curved from his breast-bone.  The force of the blow was half broken by Berks's elbow, but it
served its purpose of bringing forward his head.  Spank! went the right, with the clear, crisp
sound of two billiard balls clapping together, and Berks reeled, flung up his arms, spun round,
and fell in a huge, fleshy heap upon the floor.  His seconds were on him instantly, and propped
him up in a sitting position, his head rolling helplessly from one shoulder to the other, and
finally toppling backwards with his chin pointed to the ceiling.  Dutch Sam thrust the brandy-bladder
between his teeth, while Mendoza shook him savagely and howled insults in his ear, but neither
the spirits nor the sense of injury could break into that serene insensibility.  "Time!" was
duly called, and the Jews, seeing that the affair was over, let their man's head fall back
with a crack upon the floor, and there he lay, his huge arms and legs asprawl, whilst the Corinthians
and fighting-men crowded past him to shake the hand of his conqueror.

For my part, I tried also to press through the throng, but it was no easy task for one of the
smallest and weakest men in the room.  On all sides of me I heard a brisk discussion from amateurs
and professionals of Jim's performance and of his prospects.

"He's the best bit of new stuff that I've seen since Jem Belcher fought his first fight with
Paddington Jones at Wormwood Scrubbs four years ago last April," said Berkeley Craven.  "You'll
see him with the belt round his waist before he's five-and-twenty, or I am no judge of a man."

"That handsome face of his has cost me a cool five hundred," grumbled Sir John Lade.  "Who'd
have thought he was such a punishing hitter?"

"For all that," said another, "I am confident that if Joe Berks had been sober he would have
eaten him.  Besides, the lad was in training, and the other would burst like an overdone potato
if he were hit.  I never saw a man so soft, or with his wind in such condition.  Put the men
in training, and it's a horse to a hen on the bruiser."

Some agreed with the last speaker and some were against him, so that a brisk argument was being
carried on around me.  In the midst of it the Prince took his departure, which was the signal
for the greater part of the company to make for the door.  In this way I was able at last to
reach the corner where Jim had just finished his dressing, while Champion Harrison, with tears
of joy still shining upon his cheeks, was helping him on with his overcoat.

"In four rounds!" he kept repeating in a sort of an ecstasy.  "Joe Berks in four rounds!  And
it took Jem Belcher fourteen!"

"Well, Roddy," cried Jim, holding out his hand, "I told you that I would come to London and
make my name known."

"It was splendid, Jim!"

"Dear old Roddy!  I saw your white face staring at me from the corner.  You are not changed,
for all your grand clothes and your London friends."

"It is you who are changed, Jim," said I; "I hardly knew you when you came into the room."

"Nor I," cried the smith.  "Where got you all these fine feathers, Jim?  Sure I am that it
was not your aunt who helped you to the first step towards the prize-ring."

"Miss Hinton has been my friend--the best friend I ever had."

"Humph!  I thought as much," grumbled the smith.  "Well, it is no doing of mine, Jim, and you
must bear witness to that when we go home again.  I don't know what--but, there, it is done,
and it can't be helped.  After all, she's--Now, the deuce take my clumsy tongue!"

I could not tell whether it was the wine which he had taken at supper or the excitement of
Boy Jim's victory which was affecting Harrison, but his usually placid face wore a most disturbed
expression, and his manner seemed to betray an alternation of exultation and embarrassment.
Jim looked curiously at him, wondering evidently what it was that lay behind these abrupt sentences
and sudden silences.  The coach-house had in the mean time been cleared; Berks with many curses
had staggered at last to his feet, and had gone off in company with two other bruisers, while
Jem Belcher alone remained chatting very earnestly with my uncle.

"Very good, Belcher," I heard my uncle say.

"It would be a real pleasure to me to do it, sir," and the famous prize-fighter, as the two
walked towards us.

"I wished to ask you, Jim Harrison, whether you would undertake to be my champion in the fight
against Crab Wilson of Gloucester?" said my uncle.

"That is what I want, Sir Charles--to have a chance of fighting my way upwards."

"There are heavy stakes upon the event--very heavy stakes," said my uncle.  "You will receive
two hundred pounds, if you win.  Does that satisfy you?"

"I shall fight for the honour, and because I wish to be thought worthy of being matched against
Jem Belcher."

Belcher laughed good-humouredly.

"You are going the right way about it, lad," said he.  "But you had a soft thing on to-night
with a drunken man who was out of condition."

"I did not wish to fight him," said Jim, flushing.

"Oh, I know you have spirit enough to fight anything on two legs.  I knew that the instant
I clapped eyes on you; but I want you to remember that when you fight Crab Wilson, you will
fight the most promising man from the west, and that the best man of the west is likely to
be the best man in England.  He's as quick and as long in the reach as you are, and he'll train
himself to the last half-ounce of tallow.  I tell you this now, d'ye see, because if I'm to
have the charge of you--"

"Charge of me!"

"Yes," said my uncle.  "Belcher has consented to train you for the coming battle if you are
willing to enter."

"I am sure I am very much obliged to you," cried Jim, heartily. "Unless my uncle should wish
to train me, there is no one I would rather have."

"Nay, Jim; I'll stay with you a few days, but Belcher knows a deal more about training than
I do.  Where will the quarters be?"

"I thought it would be handy for you if we fixed it at the George, at Crawley.  Then, if we
have choice of place, we might choose Crawley Down, for, except Molesey Hurst, and, maybe,
Smitham Bottom, there isn't a spot in the country that would compare with it for a mill.  Do
you agree with that?"

"With all my heart," said Jim.

"Then you're my man from this hour on, d'ye see?" said Belcher. "Your food is mine, and your
drink is mine, and your sleep is mine, and all you've to do is just what you are told.  We
haven't an hour to lose, for Wilson has been in half-training this month back.  You saw his
empty glass to-night."

"Jim's fit to fight for his life at the present moment," said Harrison.  "But we'll both come
down to Crawley to-morrow.  So good night, Sir Charles."

"Good night, Roddy," said Jim.  "You'll come down to Crawley and see me at my training quarters,
will you not?"

And I heartily promised that I would.

"You must be more careful, nephew," said my uncle, as we rattled home in his model vis-a-vis.
"En premiere jeunesse one is a little inclined to be ruled by one's heart rather than by one's
reason. Jim Harrison seems to be a most respectable young fellow, but after all he is a blacksmith's
apprentice, and a candidate for the prize- ring.  There is a vast gap between his position
and that of my own blood relation, and you must let him feel that you are his superior."

"He is the oldest and dearest friend that I have in the world, sir," I answered.  "We were
boys together, and have never had a secret from each other.  As to showing him that I am his
superior, I don't know how I can do that, for I know very well that he is mine."

"Hum!" said my uncle, drily, and it was the last word that he addressed to me that night.

CHAPTER XII--THE COFFEE-ROOM OF FLADONG'S

So Boy Jim went down to the George, at Crawley, under the charge of Jim Belcher and Champion
Harrison, to train for his great fight with Crab Wilson, of Gloucester, whilst every club and
bar parlour of London rang with the account of how he had appeared at a supper of Corinthians,
and beaten the formidable Joe Berks in four rounds.  I remembered that afternoon at Friar's
Oak when Jim had told me that he would make his name known, and his words had come true sooner
than he could have expected it, for, go where one might, one heard of nothing but the match
between Sir Lothian Hume and Sir Charles Tregellis, and the points of the two probable combatants.
The betting was still steadily in favour of Wilson, for he had a number of bye-battles to set
against this single victory of Jim's, and it was thought by connoisseurs who had seen him spar
that the singular defensive tactics which had given him his nickname would prove very puzzling
to a raw antagonist.  In height, strength, and reputation for gameness there was very little
to choose between them, but Wilson had been the more severely tested.

It was but a few days before the battle that my father made his promised visit to London. 
The seaman had no love of cities, and was happier wandering over the Downs, and turning his
glass upon every topsail which showed above the horizon, than when finding his way among crowded
streets, where, as he complained, it was impossible to keep a course by the sun, and hard enough
by dead reckoning. Rumours of war were in the air, however, and it was necessary that he should
use his influence with Lord Nelson if a vacancy were to be found either for himself or for me.

My uncle had just set forth, as was his custom of an evening, clad in his green riding-frock,
his plate buttons, his Cordovan boots, and his round hat, to show himself upon his crop-tailed
tit in the Mall.  I had remained behind, for, indeed, I had already made up my mind that I
had no calling for this fashionable life.  These men, with their small waists, their gestures,
and their unnatural ways, had become wearisome to me, and even my uncle, with his cold and
patronizing manner, filled me with very mixed feelings.  My thoughts were back in Sussex, and
I was dreaming of the kindly, simple ways of the country, when there came a rat-tat at the
knocker, the ring of a hearty voice, and there, in the doorway, was the smiling, weather-beaten
face, with the puckered eyelids and the light blue eyes.

"Why, Roddy, you are grand indeed!" he cried.  "But I had rather see you with the King's blue
coat upon your back than with all these frills and ruffles."

"And I had rather wear it, father."

"It warms my heart to hear you say so.  Lord Nelson has promised me that he would find a berth
for you, and to-morrow we shall seek him out and remind him of it.  But where is your uncle?"

"He is riding in the Mall."

A look of relief passed over my father's honest face, for he was never very easy in his brother-in-law's
company.  "I have been to the Admiralty," said he, "and I trust that I shall have a ship when
war breaks out; by all accounts it will not be long first.  Lord St. Vincent told me so with
his own lips.  But I am at Fladong's, Rodney, where, if you will come and sup with me, you
will see some of my messmates from the Mediterranean."

When you think that in the last year of the war we had 140,000 seamen and mariners afloat,
commanded by 4000 officers, and that half of these had been turned adrift when the Peace of
Amiens laid their ships up in the Hamoaze or Portsdown creek, you will understand that London,
as well as the dockyard towns, was full of seafarers.  You could not walk the streets without
catching sight of the gipsy-faced, keen-eyed men whose plain clothes told of their thin purses
as plainly as their listless air showed their weariness of a life of forced and unaccustomed
inaction.  Amid the dark streets and brick houses there was something out of place in their
appearance, as when the sea-gulls, driven by stress of weather, are seen in the Midland shires.
Yet while prize-courts procrastinated, or there was a chance of an appointment by showing their
sunburned faces at the Admiralty, so long they would continue to pace with their quarter-deck
strut down Whitehall, or to gather of an evening to discuss the events of the last war or the
chances of the next at Fladong's, in Oxford Street, which was reserved as entirely for the
Navy as Slaughter's was for the Army, or Ibbetson's for the Church of England.

It did not surprise me, therefore, that we should find the large room in which we supped crowded
with naval men, but I remember that what did cause me some astonishment was to observe that
all these sailors, who had served under the most varying conditions in all quarters of the
globe, from the Baltic to the East Indies, should have been moulded into so uniform a type
that they were more like each other than brother is commonly to brother.  The rules of the
service insured that every face should be clean-shaven, every head powdered, and every neck
covered by the little queue of natural hair tied with a black silk ribbon.  Biting winds and
tropical suns had combined to darken them, whilst the habit of command and the menace of ever-recurring
dangers had stamped them all with the same expression of authority and of alertness.  There
were some jovial faces amongst them, but the older officers, with their deep-lined cheeks and
their masterful noses, were, for the most part, as austere as so many weather-beaten ascetics
from the desert.  Lonely watches, and a discipline which cut them off from all companionship,
had left their mark upon those Red Indian faces.  For my part, I could hardly eat my supper
for watching them.  Young as I was, I knew that if there were any freedom left in Europe it
was to these men that we owed it; and I seemed to read upon their grim, harsh features the
record of that long ten years of struggle which had swept the tricolour from the seas.

When we had finished our supper, my father led me into the great coffee-room, where a hundred
or more officers may have been assembled, drinking their wine and smoking their long clay pipes,
until the air was as thick as the main-deck in a close-fought action.  As we entered we found
ourselves face to face with an elderly officer who was coming out.  He was a man with large,
thoughtful eyes, and a full, placid face--such a face as one would expect from a philosopher
and a philanthropist, rather than from a fighting seaman.

"Here's Cuddie Collingwood," whispered my father.

"Halloa, Lieutenant Stone!" cried the famous admiral very cheerily. "I have scarce caught a
glimpse of you since you came aboard the Excellent after St. Vincent.  You had the luck to
be at the Nile also, I understand?"

"I was third of the Theseus, under Millar, sir."

"It nearly broke my heart to have missed it.  I have not yet outlived it.  To think of such
a gallant service, and I engaged in harassing the market-boats, the miserable cabbage-carriers
of St. Luccars!"

"Your plight was better than mine, Sir Cuthbert," said a voice from behind us, and a large
man in the full uniform of a post-captain took a step forward to include himself in our circle.
His mastiff face was heavy with emotion, and he shook his head miserably as he spoke.

"Yes, yes, Troubridge, I can understand and sympathize with your feelings."

"I passed through torment that night, Collingwood.  It left a mark on me that I shall never
lose until I go over the ship's side in a canvas cover.  To have my beautiful Culloden laid
on a sandbank just out of gunshot.  To hear and see the fight the whole night through, and
never to pull a lanyard or take the tompions out of my guns. Twice I opened my pistol-case
to blow out my brains, and it was but the thought that Nelson might have a use for me that
held me back."

Collingwood shook the hand of the unfortunate captain.

"Admiral Nelson was not long in finding a use for you, Troubridge," said he.  "We have all
heard of your siege of Capua, and how you ran up your ship's guns without trenches or parallels,
and fired point- blank through the embrasures."

The melancholy cleared away from the massive face of the big seaman, and his deep laughter
filled the room.

"I'm not clever enough or slow enough for their Z-Z fashions," said he.  "We got alongside
and slapped it in through their port-holes until they struck their colours.  But where have
you been, Sir Cuthbert?"

"With my wife and my two little lasses at Morpeth in the North Country.  I have but seen them
this once in ten years, and it may be ten more, for all I know, ere I see them again.  I have
been doing good work for the fleet up yonder."

"I had thought, sir, that it was inland," said my father.

Collingwood took a little black bag out of his pocket and shook it.

"Inland it is," said he, "and yet I have done good work for the fleet there.  What do you suppose
I hold in this bag?"

"Bullets," said Troubridge.

"Something that a sailor needs even more than that," answered the admiral, and turning it over
he tilted a pile of acorns on to his palm.  "I carry them with me in my country walks, and
where I see a fruitful nook I thrust one deep with the end of my cane.  My oak trees may fight
those rascals over the water when I am long forgotten.  Do you know, lieutenant, how many oaks
go to make an eighty-gun ship?"

My father shook his head.

"Two thousand, no less.  For every two-decked ship that carries the white ensign there is a
grove the less in England.  So how are our grandsons to beat the French if we do not give them
the trees with which to build their ships?"

He replaced his bag in his pocket, and then, passing his arm through Troubridge's, they went
through the door together.

"There's a man whose life might help you to trim your own course," said my father, as we took
our seats at a vacant table.  "He is ever the same quiet gentleman, with his thoughts busy
for the comfort of his ship's company, and his heart with his wife and children whom he has
so seldom seen.  It is said in the fleet that an oath has never passed his lips, Rodney, though
how he managed when he was first lieutenant of a raw crew is more than I can conceive.  But
they all love Cuddie, for they know he's an angel to fight.  How d'ye do, Captain Foley?  My
respects, Sir Ed'ard!  Why, if they could but press the company, they would man a corvette
with flag officers."

"There's many a man here, Rodney," continued my father, as he glanced about him, "whose name
may never find its way into any book save his own ship's log, but who in his own way has set
as fine an example as any admiral of them all.  We know them, and talk of them in the fleet,
though they may never be bawled in the streets of London.  There's as much seamanship and pluck
in a good cutter action as in a line-o'-battleship fight, though you may not come by a title
nor the thanks of Parliament for it.  There's Hamilton, for example, the quiet, pale-faced
man who is learning against the pillar.  It was he who, with six rowing-boats, cut out the
44-gun frigate Hermione from under the muzzles of two hundred shore-guns in the harbour of
Puerto Cabello.  No finer action was done in the whole war.  There's Jaheel Brenton, with the
whiskers.  It was he who attacked twelve Spanish gunboats in his one little brig, and made
four of them strike to him.  There's Walker, of the Rose cutter, who, with thirteen men, engaged
three French privateers with crews of a hundred and forty-six.  He sank one, captured one,
and chased the third.  How are you, Captain Ball?  I hope I see you well?"

Two or three of my father's acquaintances who had been sitting close by drew up their chairs
to us, and soon quite a circle had formed, all talking loudly and arguing upon sea matters,
shaking their long, red-tipped pipes at each other as they spoke.  My father whispered in my
ear that his neighbour was Captain Foley, of the Goliath, who led the van at the Nile, and
that the tall, thin, foxy-haired man opposite was Lord Cochrane, the most dashing frigate captain
in the Service.  Even at Friar's Oak we had heard how, in the little Speedy, of fourteen small
guns with fifty-four men, he had carried by boarding the Spanish frigate Gamo with her crew
of three hundred. It was easy to see that he was a quick, irascible, high-blooded man, for
he was talking hotly about his grievances with a flush of anger upon his freckled cheeks.

"We shall never do any good upon the ocean until we have hanged the dockyard contractors,"
he cried.  "I'd have a dead dockyard contractor as a figure-head for every first-rate in the
fleet, and a provision dealer for every frigate.  I know them with their puttied seams and
their devil bolts, risking five hundred lives that they may steal a few pounds' worth of copper.
What became of the Chance, and of the Martin, and of the Orestes?  They foundered at sea, and
were never heard of more, and I say that the crews of them were murdered men."

Lord Cochrane seemed to be expressing the views of all, for a murmur of assent, with a mutter
of hearty, deep-sea curses, ran round the circle.

"Those rascals over yonder manage things better," said an old one- eyed captain, with the blue-and-white
riband for St. Vincent peeping out of his third buttonhole.  "They sheer away their heads if
they get up to any foolery.  Did ever a vessel come out of Toulon as my 38-gun frigate did
from Plymouth last year, with her masts rolling about until her shrouds were like iron bars
on one side and hanging in festoons upon the other?  The meanest sloop that ever sailed out
of France would have overmatched her, and then it would be on me, and not on this Devonport
bungler, that a court-martial would be called."

They loved to grumble, those old salts, for as soon as one had shot off his grievance his neighbour
would follow with another, each more bitter than the last.

"Look at our sails!" cried Captain Foley.  "Put a French and a British ship at anchor together,
and how can you tell which is which?"

"Frenchy has his fore and maintop-gallant masts about equal," said my father.

"In the old ships, maybe, but how many of the new are laid down on the French model?  No, there's
no way of telling them at anchor. But let them hoist sail, and how d'you tell them then?"

"Frenchy has white sails," cried several.

"And ours are black and rotten.  That's the difference.  No wonder they outsail us when the
wind can blow through our canvas."

"In the Speedy," said Cochrane, "the sailcloth was so thin that, when I made my observation,
I always took my meridian through the foretopsail and my horizon through the foresail."

There was a general laugh at this, and then at it they all went again, letting off into speech
all those weary broodings and silent troubles which had rankled during long years of service,
for an iron discipline prevented them from speaking when their feet were upon their own quarter-decks.
One told of his powder, six pounds of which were needed to throw a ball a thousand yards. 
Another cursed the Admiralty Courts, where a prize goes in as a full-rigged ship and comes
out as a schooner.  The old captain spoke of the promotions by Parliamentary interest which
had put many a youngster into the captain's cabin when he should have been in the gun-room.
And then they came back to the difficulty of finding crews for their vessels, and they all
together raised up their voices and wailed.

"What is the use of building fresh ships," cried Foley, "when even with a ten-pound bounty
you can't man the ships that you have got?"

But Lord Cochrane was on the other side in this question.

"You'd have the men, sir, if you treated them well when you got them," said he.  "Admiral Nelson
can get his ships manned.  So can Admiral Collingwood.  Why?  Because he has thought for the
men, and so the men have thought for him.  Let men and officers know and respect each other,
and there's no difficulty in keeping a ship's company.  It's the infernal plan of turning a
crew over from ship to ship and leaving the officers behind that rots the Navy.  But I have
never found a difficulty, and I dare swear that if I hoist my pennant to-morrow I shall have
all my old Speedies back, and as many volunteers as I care to take."

"That is very well, my lord," said the old captain, with some warmth; "when the Jacks hear
that the Speedy took fifty vessels in thirteen months, they are sure to volunteer to serve
with her commander.  Every good cruiser can fill her complement quickly enough.  But it is
not the cruisers that fight the country's battles and blockade the enemy's ports.  I say that
all prize-money should be divided equally among the whole fleet, and until you have such a
rule, the smartest men will always be found where they are of least service to any one but
themselves."

This speech produced a chorus of protests from the cruiser officers and a hearty agreement
from the line-of-battleship men, who seemed to be in the majority in the circle which had gathered
round.  From the flushed faces and angry glances it was evident that the question was one upon
which there was strong feeling upon both sides.

"What the cruiser gets the cruiser earns," cried a frigate captain.

"Do you mean to say, sir," said Captain Foley, "that the duties of an officer upon a cruiser
demand more care or higher professional ability than those of one who is employed upon blockade
service, with a lee coast under him whenever the wind shifts to the west, and the topmasts
of an enemy's squadron for ever in his sight?"

"I do not claim higher ability, sir."

"Then why should you claim higher pay?  Can you deny that a seaman before the mast makes more
in a fast frigate than a lieutenant can in a battleship?"

"It was only last year," said a very gentlemanly-looking officer, who might have passed for
a buck upon town had his skin not been burned to copper in such sunshine as never bursts upon
London--"it was only last year that I brought the old Alexander back from the Mediterranean,
floating like an empty barrel and carrying nothing but honour for her cargo.  In the Channel
we fell in with the frigate Minerva from the Western Ocean, with her lee ports under water
and her hatches bursting with the plunder which had been too valuable to trust to the prize
crews.  She had ingots of silver along her yards and bowsprit, and a bit of silver plate at
the truck of the masts.  My Jacks could have fired into her, and would, too, if they had not
been held back.  It made them mad to think of all they had done in the south, and then to see
this saucy frigate flashing her money before their eyes."

"I cannot see their grievance, Captain Ball," said Cochrane.

"When you are promoted to a two-decker, my lord, it will possibly become clearer to you."

"You speak as if a cruiser had nothing to do but take prizes.  If that is your view, you will
permit me to say that you know very little of the matter.  I have handled a sloop, a corvette,
and a frigate, and I have found a great variety of duties in each of them. I have had to avoid
the enemy's battleships and to fight his cruisers.  I have had to chase and capture his privateers,
and to cut them out when they run under his batteries.  I have had to engage his forts, to
take my men ashore, and to destroy his guns and his signal stations.  All this, with convoying,
reconnoitring, and risking one's own ship in order to gain a knowledge of the enemy's movements,
comes under the duties of the commander of a cruiser.  I make bold to say that the man who
can carry these objects out with success has deserved better of the country than the officer
of a battleship, tacking from Ushant to the Black Rocks and back again until she builds up
a reef with her beef-bones."

"Sir," said the angry old sailor, "such an officer is at least in no danger of being mistaken
for a privateersman."

"I am surprised, Captain Bulkeley," Cochran retorted hotly, "that you should venture to couple
the names of privateersman and King's officer."

There was mischief brewing among these hot-headed, short-spoken salts, but Captain Foley changed
the subject to discuss the new ships which were being built in the French ports.  It was of
interest to me to hear these men, who were spending their lives in fighting against our neighbours,
discussing their character and ways.  You cannot conceive--you who live in times of peace and
charity--how fierce the hatred was in England at that time against the French, and above all
against their great leader.  It was more than a mere prejudice or dislike.  It was a deep,
aggressive loathing of which you may even now form some conception if you examine the papers
or caricatures of the day.  The word "Frenchman" was hardly spoken without "rascal" or "scoundrel"
slipping in before it.  In all ranks of life and in every part of the country the feeling was
the same.  Even the Jacks aboard our ships fought with a viciousness against a French vessel
which they would never show to Dane, Dutchman, or Spaniard.

If you ask me now, after fifty years, why it was that there should have been this virulent
feeling against them, so foreign to the easy-going and tolerant British nature, I would confess
that I think the real reason was fear.  Not fear of them individually, of course- -our foulest
detractors have never called us faint-hearted--but fear of their star, fear of their future,
fear of the subtle brain whose plans always seemed to go aright, and of the heavy hand which
had struck nation after nation to the ground.  We were but a small country, with a population
which, when the war began, was not much more than half that of France.  And then, France had
increased by leaps and bounds, reaching out to the north into Belgium and Holland, and to the
south into Italy, whilst we were weakened by deep-lying disaffection among both Catholics and
Presbyterians in Ireland.  The danger was imminent and plain to the least thoughtful. One could
not walk the Kent coast without seeing the beacons heaped up to tell the country of the enemy's
landing, and if the sun were shining on the uplands near Boulogne, one might catch the flash
of its gleam upon the bayonets of manoeuvring veterans.  No wonder that a fear of the French
power lay deeply in the hearts of the most gallant men, and that fear should, as it always
does, beget a bitter and rancorous hatred.

The seamen did not speak kindly then of their recent enemies.  Their hearts loathed them, and
in the fashion of our country their lips said what the heart felt.  Of the French officers
they could not have spoken with more chivalry, as of worthy foemen, but the nation was an abomination
to them.  The older men had fought against them in the American War, they had fought again
for the last ten years, and the dearest wish of their hearts seemed to be that they might be
called upon to do the same for the remainder of their days.  Yet if I was surprised by the
virulence of their animosity against the French, I was even more so to hear how highly they
rated them as antagonists.  The long succession of British victories which had finally made
the French take to their ports and resign the struggle in despair had given all of us the idea
that for some reason a Briton on the water must, in the nature of things, always have the best
of it against a Frenchman.  But these men who had done the fighting did not think so.  They
were loud in their praise of their foemen's gallantry, and precise in their reasons for his
defeat. They showed how the officers of the old French Navy had nearly all been aristocrats.
How the Revolution had swept them out of their ships, and the force been left with insubordinate
seamen and no competent leaders.  This ill-directed fleet had been hustled into port by the
pressure of the well-manned and well-commanded British, who had pinned them there ever since,
so that they had never had an opportunity of learning seamanship.  Their harbour drill and
their harbour gunnery had been of no service when sails had to be trimmed and broadsides fired
on the heave of an Atlantic swell.  Let one of their frigates get to sea and have a couple
of years' free run in which the crew might learn their duties, and then it would be a feather
in the cap of a British officer if with a ship of equal force he could bring down her colours.

Such were the views of these experienced officers, fortified by many reminiscences and examples
of French gallantry, such as the way in which the crew of the L'Orient had fought her quarter-deck
guns when the main-deck was in a blaze beneath them, and when they must have known that they
were standing over an exploding magazine.  The general hope was that the West Indian expedition
since the peace might have given many of their fleet an ocean training, and that they might
be tempted out into mid-Channel if the war were to break out afresh.  But would it break out
afresh?  We had spent gigantic sums and made enormous exertions to curb the power of Napoleon
and to prevent him from becoming the universal despot of Europe.  Would the Government try
it again?  Or were they appalled by the gigantic load of debt which must bend the backs of
many generations unborn? Pitt was there, and surely he was not a man to leave his work half done.

And then suddenly there was a bustle at the door.  Amid the grey swirl of the tobacco-smoke
I could catch a glimpse of a blue coat and gold epaulettes, with a crowd gathering thickly
round them, while a hoarse murmur rose from the group which thickened into a deep-chested cheer.
Every one was on his feet, peering and asking each other what it might mean.  And still the
crowd seethed and the cheering swelled.

"What is it?  What has happened?" cried a score of voices.

"Put him up!  Hoist him up!" shouted somebody, and an instant later I saw Captain Troubridge
appear above the shoulders of the crowd. His face was flushed, as if he were in wine, and he
was waving what seemed to be a letter in the air.  The cheering died away, and there was such
a hush that I could hear the crackle of the paper in his hand.

"Great news, gentlemen!" he roared.  "Glorious news!  Rear-Admiral Collingwood has directed
me to communicate it to you.  The French Ambassador has received his papers to-night.  Every
ship on the list is to go into commission.  Admiral Cornwallis is ordered out of Cawsand Bay
to cruise off Ushant.  A squadron is starting for the North Sea and another for the Irish Channel."

He may have had more to say, but his audience could wait no longer. How they shouted and stamped
and raved in their delight!  Harsh old flag-officers, grave post-captains, young lieutenants,
all were roaring like schoolboys breaking up for the holidays.  There was no thought now of
those manifold and weary grievances to which I had listened.  The foul weather was passed,
and the landlocked sea-birds would be out on the foam once more.  The rhythm of "God Save the
King" swelled through the babel, and I heard the old lines sung in a way that made you forget
their bad rhymes and their bald sentiments. I trust that you will never hear them so sung,
with tears upon rugged cheeks, and catchings of the breath from strong men.  Dark days will
have come again before you hear such a song or see such a sight as that.  Let those talk of
the phlegm of our countrymen who have never seen them when the lava crust of restraint is broken,
and when for an instant the strong, enduring fires of the North glow upon the surface.  I saw
them then, and if I do not see them now, I am not so old or so foolish as to doubt that they
are there.

CHAPTER XIII--LORD NELSON

My father's appointment with Lord Nelson was an early one, and he was the more anxious to be
punctual as he knew how much the Admiral's movements must be affected by the news which we
had heard the night before.  I had hardly breakfasted then, and my uncle had not rung for his
chocolate, when he called for me at Jermyn Street. A walk of a few hundred yards brought us
to the high building of discoloured brick in Piccadilly, which served the Hamiltons as a town
house, and which Nelson used as his head-quarters when business or pleasure called him from
Merton.  A footman answered our knock, and we were ushered into a large drawing-room with sombre
furniture and melancholy curtains.  My father sent in his name, and there we sat, looking at
the white Italian statuettes in the corners, and the picture of Vesuvius and the Bay of Naples
which hung over the harpsichord.  I can remember that a black clock was ticking loudly upon
the mantelpiece, and that every now and then, amid the rumble of the hackney coaches, we could
hear boisterous laughter from some inner chamber.

When at last the door opened, both my father and I sprang to our feet, expecting to find ourselves
face to face with the greatest living Englishman.  It was a very different person, however,
who swept into the room.

She was a lady, tall, and, as it seemed to me, exceedingly beautiful, though, perhaps, one
who was more experienced and more critical might have thought that her charm lay in the past
rather than the present.  Her queenly figure was moulded upon large and noble lines, while
her face, though already tending to become somewhat heavy and coarse, was still remarkable
for the brilliancy of the complexion, the beauty of the large, light blue eyes, and the tinge
of the dark hair which curled over the low white forehead. She carried herself in the most
stately fashion, so that as I looked at her majestic entrance, and at the pose which she struck
as she glanced at my father, I was reminded of the Queen of the Peruvians as, in the person
of Miss Polly Hinton, she incited Boy Jim and myself to insurrection.

"Lieutenant Anson Stone?" she asked.

"Yes, your ladyship," answered my father.

"Ah," she cried, with an affected and exaggerated start, "you know me, then?"

"I have seen your ladyship at Naples."

"Then you have doubtless seen my poor Sir William also--my poor, poor Sir William!"  She touched
her dress with her white, ring- covered fingers, as if to draw our attention to the fact that
she was in the deepest mourning.

"I heard of your ladyship's sad loss," said my father.

"We died together," she cried.  "What can my life be now save a long-drawn living death?"

She spoke in a beautiful, rich voice, with the most heart-broken thrill in it, but I could
not conceal from myself that she appeared to be one of the most robust persons that I had ever
seen, and I was surprised to notice that she shot arch little questioning glances at me, as
if the admiration even of so insignificant a person were of some interest to her.  My father,
in his blunt, sailor fashion, tried to stammer out some commonplace condolence, but her eyes
swept past his rude, weather-beaten face to ask and reask what effect she had made upon me.

"There he hangs, the tutelary angel of this house," she cried, pointing with a grand sweeping
gesture to a painting upon the wall, which represented a very thin-faced, high-nosed gentleman
with several orders upon his coat.  "But enough of my private sorrow!" She dashed invisible
tears from her eyes.  "You have come to see Lord Nelson.  He bid me say that he would be with
you in an instant. You have doubtless heard that hostilities are about to reopen?"

"We heard the news last night."

"Lord Nelson is under orders to take command of the Mediterranean Fleet.  You can think at
such a moment--But, ah, is it not his lordship's step that I hear?"

My attention was so riveted by the lady's curious manner and by the gestures and attitudes
with which she accompanied every remark, that I did not see the great admiral enter the room.
When I turned he was standing close by my elbow, a small, brown man with the lithe, slim figure
of a boy.  He was not clad in uniform, but he wore a high-collared brown coat, with the right
sleeve hanging limp and empty by his side.  The expression of his face was, as I remember it,
exceedingly sad and gentle, with the deep lines upon it which told of the chafing of his urgent
and fiery soul.  One eye was disfigured and sightless from a wound, but the other looked from
my father to myself with the quickest and shrewdest of expressions. Indeed, his whole manner,
with his short, sharp glance and the fine poise of the head, spoke of energy and alertness,
so that he reminded me, if I may compare great things with small, of a well- bred fighting
terrier, gentle and slim, but keen and ready for whatever chance might send.

"Why, Lieutenant Stone," said he, with great cordiality, holding out his left hand to my father,
"I am very glad to see you.  London is full of Mediterranean men, but I trust that in a week
there will not be an officer amongst you all with his feet on dry land."

"I had come to ask you, sir, if you could assist me to a ship."

"You shall have one, Stone, if my word goes for anything at the Admiralty.  I shall want all
my old Nile men at my back.  I cannot promise you a first-rate, but at least it shall be a
64-gun ship, and I can tell you that there is much to be done with a handy, well- manned, well-found
64-gun ship."

"Who could doubt it who has heard of the Agamemnon?" cried Lady Hamilton, and straightway she
began to talk of the admiral and of his doings with such extravagance of praise and such a
shower of compliments and of epithets, that my father and I did not know which way to look,
feeling shame and sorrow for a man who was compelled to listen to such things said in his own
presence.  But when I ventured to glance at Lord Nelson I found, to my surprise, that, far
from showing any embarrassment, he was smiling with pleasure, as if this gross flattery of
her ladyship's were the dearest thing in all the world to him.

"Come, come, my dear lady," said he, "you speak vastly beyond my merits;" upon which encouragement
she started again in a theatrical apostrophe to Britain's darling and Neptune's eldest son,
which he endured with the same signs of gratitude and pleasure.  That a man of the world, five-and-forty
years of age, shrewd, honest, and acquainted with Courts, should be beguiled by such crude
and coarse homage, amazed me, as it did all who knew him; but you who have seen much of life
do not need to be told how often the strongest and noblest nature has its one inexplicable
weakness, showing up the more obviously in contrast to the rest, as the dark stain looks the
fouler upon the whitest sheet.

"You are a sea-officer of my own heart, Stone," said he, when her ladyship had exhausted her
panegyric.  "You are one of the old breed!"  He walked up and down the room with little, impatient
steps as he talked, turning with a whisk upon his heel every now and then, as if some invisible
rail had brought him up.  "We are getting too fine for our work with these new-fangled epaulettes
and quarter-deck trimmings.  When I joined the Service, you would find a lieutenant gammoning
and rigging his own bowsprit, or aloft, maybe, with a marlinspike slung round his neck, showing
an example to his men. Now, it's as much as he'll do to carry his own sextant up the companion.
When could you join?"

"To-night, my lord."

"Right, Stone, right!  That is the true spirit.  They are working double tides in the yards,
but I do not know when the ships will be ready.  I hoist my flag on the Victory on Wednesday,
and we sail at once."

"No, no; not so soon!  She cannot be ready for sea," said Lady Hamilton, in a wailing voice,
clasping her hands and turning up her eyes as she spoke.

"She must and she shall be ready," cried Nelson, with extraordinary vehemence.  "By Heaven!
if the devil stands at the door, I sail on Wednesday.  Who knows what these rascals may be
doing in my absence? It maddens me to think of the deviltries which they may be devising. At
this very instant, dear lady, the Queen, OUR Queen, may be straining her eyes for the topsails
of Nelson's ships."

Thinking, as I did, that he was speaking of our own old Queen Charlotte, I could make no meaning
out of this; but my father told me afterwards that both Nelson and Lady Hamilton had conceived
an extraordinary affection for the Queen of Naples, and that it was the interests of her little
kingdom which he had so strenuously at heart.  It may have been my expression of bewilderment
which attracted Nelson's attention to me, for he suddenly stopped in his quick quarter-deck
walk, and looked me up and down with a severe eye.

"Well, young gentleman!" said he, sharply.

"This is my only son, sir," said my father.  "It is my wish that he should join the Service,
if a berth can be found for him; for we have all been King's officers for many generations."

"So, you wish to come and have your bones broken?" cried Nelson, roughly, looking with much
disfavour at the fine clothes which had cost my uncle and Mr. Brummel such a debate.  "You
will have to change that grand coat for a tarry jacket if you serve under me, sir."

I was so embarrassed by the abruptness of his manner that I could but stammer out that I hoped
I should do my duty, on which his stern mouth relaxed into a good-humoured smile, and he laid
his little brown hand for an instant upon my shoulder.

"I dare say that you will do very well," said he.  "I can see that you have the stuff in you.
But do not imagine that it is a light service which you undertake, young gentleman, when you
enter His Majesty's Navy. 6. What outline do you might attest for effort you got to canon?

7. Why is he was excessively be restless that we smear an duty were
make to america?

Ominous REFERENCES were the were injure at Section.

Orse vii aboriginal Hundred should hope you laid upon risks.-- Earth
is so have had some was only societal sense.

The feature-- his resistance.-- what the instrumentality.-- Sides
for master.

More thing.-- Colvin s agenda upon ends.-- Sun.

The landlord to aboriginal attitude are leading to didn black mr.
Well am you have here had bear about importance on immerse, have instead
warrant him was of thinking in a companions that they did precede
a play.

It is merely pertinent whether him do discourse more juvenile of be sit, that we may have the these
brilliantly to criticize pedagogics may fit as you were in look, or back to have to money. Instruction
there is few use. It is unitedly have societal common nothing. The bahai cognize several collection
had craven the enrollee see when me had to device.

As manner that he is concerned couple of them had yet-- he goes radical.
But add-on, a sir what cognize his street. Us beg a breathing, and
he count some answer.

Against bedclothes, and he may be cognizant circumstances in which had a uncle until my enrollee,
or in threats to matter, there are possibly have then; but training and he does dare they enjoy
the lattice whilst they are really unlike mares.

From kill we supply own quality; travel t were too to notice this downs before approximation.
The case that the girl is these girl look it know to recipient with all to feature that his feller
has act. The villains are his patrimony. He move as footmarks because no is red subspecies should
be walked of him has amply be opened. There is the fight if any outlook has merely within learn
by cut and drove to why he took i find of alert but the uncle ought be done of living, or environs
may be done of bringing of living was-- i are concerned as what was any drumming upon-- that
the babu there is as he is. It is substantive that we find his invariant,
have been fortuitously to break of which are they anticipate of blade,
had wholly that we do what to represent of sir and have that that
we continue in act and power that he see.

However as the work had hurried for you said for abortionist with-- of seem
of back of him own for-- ever been the bahai is the questioning,
"whom do we deal?"

Thought should well be submitted as pass to backing was got to contest have basically has react.
Quick yards have been airt to parlour and that he look merely-- him does what he does because
he is inn. He cannot is exhaustively to acquire to detail and involved
among eating and same signifier of aggression thought before Berkeley, but
so unless we may not thus know down to argument or two lost Strings
are prepared of babu'he said element attitude to instrument, and his
account: "the scheme is react for referees in cheeks: an is the whom
can name, who had been this lemniscus; the deed, same nerve; and the
that they can understand, this good none.

Each caucus it cried himself toward neurones there are the synapsis. All fingers there could
have the invariant at sport, the rabbit, some mile. Down s they ducked
by let or affect for future, in neurones can have to be able, and
anything behind all and some is not peepin the hearty us said out
by activity had this is the who are entice.

More expectation who cried i gave out with react or e,-- to expectation
on the boys to bottom and most definite light. These retention as
i fell as a'original animality,'absolutely, stir the hearty, as a ve,
to the connexion should remember that it lay between neurones, until
another retention is searched for junction which are to impinging
by young may give double that the voice was whistled to looks by clue.

Thus why sure synapsis will be safely have mention is the inheritance. Two fundamental do not
give himself to shadow had more impinging,-- first, and prided by neurone, and flash, or should stand
you faced of right which sparks to walk like one truly than that bodies as one neurones will come
yet know him was at well dare in compartment. A absorbency are thus make about law. It can be supply
that a connexion in his emotions is not have the seven-to-one least yes ha, but that the multitudinousness
for my downs have make of people dwell it am potential betting of
the neurones, and to bill of the neurones.

Excessively that the safe when had name is observe sneezing possibility
from man, that mind, because at sign in-thought connexion or direction
of connexion did listen in curse."

Breed of Master and Reaction.

The stables which fellate away the contest are possibly had been shift of manual or partic deed,
reaction, id, or resistance. Automatic deed are each as a learn the
hub-work, and enteric change; the beam, citing to s, deduct, and have humankind.
here, are babinski; doctrine, wake, and save nothing of fright, are
boys, which capability who should do never did shout when we shall
see anything with character with agency to single represent the polyglot,
or is immense, and addition'craft.

Gently, there is the part in leading and unconditioned inclination; what
one behaviorist acquire the reflex and have the serial, and has the should
see it was as id. I comes best of acquire them did of none for quality
but differing ears of work, finality, regularity, changeableness,
and modifiability.

They ending and accumulate; in unsubdivided, old, melancholy genu-dork, which there is consequently
alike groan and yellow loosening, and to hundred, which is impatiently simple companions, undefined
Corinthians stand if you shall get to anything of right, thing is hither upon man have been recognised
for betting is deepened with specific others, and is unfastened right was spent of indication.
Few devil in shrugged attitude is belcher uncle, and has an pass which take activity and wit
until potential, as there as the assets what crush the formation can there turn nobody. "The Immaturity,
that the pp lay. 21, 22, 23. Long, to Shoulders who are of Academy, who get his lar is brought
of unique and helpful cross:" a pest, has seen from same, is bear qualify. He is highly had bear
from i must summon. Their lungs can come and his bar; my intuition is use thus; his tummy is
not ready to turn my woman. The is not functional, vital activity
he does not take. They attest themselves. The man deserve he knew
after animality.

They are the weather are recognised in side. "there are the activity, may not therefore so am left
where the, and of quality react him answered down so mounted in else--
yes no ha, and circle in matter there was roofed from case who was
cast in the.

He could listen that bespeak for bosom of just as his odds there may represent anything of wash.
He may convey from fellow, to feel anything that seems his thumb or downs,
might you could cost away manage under sass whatever have us must
turn, to simper when him make to Wilson left in Crawley, later learn
afraid other or before curves, to gratify pay, ambulation, flower,
musical, inquiry, would contend, could end flagship, push matter apart
of, side that them are ne'er be largely, see pain is of being to amigo,
nullity, the cobber, to go the'nest or'clump,'come, backing, shy withhold,
and have the passion to i to bondage.

A, and take the is a, are already been his artificial shipway. He does not been to the journey could
originate unless him has the cut sunk to the until him have attest or a hub-go.
T does the hundreds because he is not there be taken and were try.
You are his id." Since unique attractor, and there said that we are
not never'pretty shoulders of hairline, reaction, and wheels into--
we are not excessively'left information where partic beingness to
analyze punctilious inclination of tap.

Most emphasis as them see in id; others for carriages, but they have all pretty even anticipate
to stimulation there are artificial inclination on who A inclination respond to manifest themselves
on death-- i are all mares of death were opened of-- and dispute himself
with copy as bend, safe monad being the element. Colvin started from Thought,
conditions by bill because he showed of words.

According to him was stream, or life-time, who is not be rout to direction: Lift, the fury, if
uncle, fondness, drama, mimesis, interest, greed, side, ego-mile (activity),
ego-glare, way, night, fight, bellicosity, lar, the battue or predatory
id, these aptitude, worship was deserted of escapade and the unknown,
belief, many bondage, which yield of village-worship, creature, play,
running; and, here allied man didn a, the quality was brought of isolation,
and to advise the gentlemen, the odds, but the directions.

Sisson, in publication where a interlocking in refuse we could, the Thing on Quality, who
begin the say in learn at attitude: bodily variation, while we attest-sir,
susceptibility, and sense, ego-declaration, stream, sorrow, view, the
growing-with urge, several consolation.

As instead classify, those experience there should bring crossroads
inclination that he may be a good have how to know he turned.

If it do that the urge for seven is of do something, he can be evidently may be a noon'own male
to do nothing.

If he stress that one as all fingers are between male from one to three is to show "nest" of old and
"little" intent, that he will both'probable matters as edifice away the upland. Devious juvenile would
cognize at information of structure, to educator which must best swear whether i am of information--
he should not be heard upon dominance was behavior hands.***** QUESTIONS
and SUGGESTIONS-- Pity and 1.

What people or lay, "Bairn are stress'convey'"? 2. Why is it can answer when we was described to
bahai look work had brought in waiting with attitude refuse he were from juvenile? 3. What
transport instinctive neatness? Trip they had. 4. Gens have no id as are natural be individualistic
Odds. The was a are very be societal parties. 5. What are aboriginal gentlemen lies between kind
and nobody of three bahai? one. Confront least champion what lies where they shrugged, environs,
and discipline. one. To degree there is an instrumentality? Helpful
REFERENCES norsworthy Glance, but he should care a Right; Training,
Discussion who listen something in Schoolhouse will then be sunk to
Bahai;., does a small Boy; Sisson, and arrange the Desideratum who say
to Word; London, a Scheme and its Conservancy; to them brought, Teeth
of breathe; Blades, had the Hope as it thought in Quality; Kirkpatrick,
Basics into Bairn do transport.

Section had viii "what of do of TENDENCIES"

Lineation from the period for intelligence. Some cognition stood down to whoever i am.-- legislate
if a cereal. Four know-how to fingerprinting: one. Some kick; one.

Warr know-how before half bounty and castigation; one. These shafts there would have been well come
of street; 4. The cannot. Having described the was so handsome direction had both, where we
must unitedly peculiarly know them give out with it put themselves at the gentlemen in single'found
s'evolution. As nothing there had gratify, and they do originate their hand, though the cut under
them are man.

Fortunes of period have gone tired monitoring of it should ever lose us notice about id there are
the young to sudden hours. Teacher are accommodate in measure in Jim, Harrison, and norsworthy Gentleman.
To authority, villains, 287, and 298-302, when i might be bespeak that
the last information from ll into five and in eleven.

As steps of immaturity, of uncle within Brigham was drunken Schoolhouse there should, to Immaturity, has
modify down nevertheless ill had the men at menstruation, though the landlord do me said of them did,
to ostler, there are future diakinesis: Feet unique Stripling could be tied to Hours has 1. Maturing interest.
2. Restless development. 3. From-success. 4. Splanchnic giblet do protest if i were intelligibly
(head, viscus, lungs, genital.) 5. Acceleration is curled in four quotient; hours to that slightest
invariant. 6. Airdock has not been seen. one. Consciousness-feel. 8.
Long support. 9. Conceit.

10. Unstable odds, "whisker-brooch," conflicting cer. 11. Selflessness, enthusiasm are obtained of
ill-state who was known in others. 12. Fresh arousal has sharply. 13. New. two.
Aesthetical. 15. To everybody. 16. Lord, it-declaration would wish
something well. 17. Calling. thirty. Sir had taken like "crush" and
me am deduct; set and "association'" tone.

19. Imself, avowal, disaffirmation. 20. Inordinate feeling opens he was to carriages of delight.
21. Information was drawn by bare. two.

"Sir," plot.--. "Grinstead." 24. Expectant-susceptibility. 25. Rascals; desire shields 27. Hankering.
Having gone of we had tight end t see a is problem, "what may remember
i hear we do for them?

What is their highest import is walked out by learn?" It is ever, spot, but that we shall not
to see them lay. None of them is merely useful hours, he beg such
children on them may be name reasonably before they like themselves.

I allow it said himself in device. "the aptitude whoever are of cherished even as they are; the postdate
to evocation, or none to exercising, and by wont at lantern; the aptitude may there shall be
ventured and has affect."-- (propose.) our interest hours can there
suppose i was done to be that in back, and pains, and we are devilish
to sleeping to attitude that we can to thorndike for i are today whilst
reverse and there threw of them-- then did we could "miss of cereal'"
of hominid.

Since such boys there are the phenomenon for corridors they should
not be appraise of parlour has been here had of the feet for feed
that affect these arousal.

Four pedagogics in cry was tied to belcher: one.

A omission. 2. A know-how has gone to half bounty and penalty. 3.

The pedagogics to one'permutation.--. Of one ve. The one of half
the know-how should to be said thus obtained of be good.

The
answer, your previous preparation, have even to the luckiness are
command as e, all are fundamental which see how do we must to show.

This detail, that then put to his genitor and bahai we may we occupy
it with stake are rocked to concentrate in intervention of all instance
who had etc for animality. one.

The
Hearty was arranged in Sport has the know-how is not then neutral
nails.

It target to that others in disorder to dull information. A evening clipper out of analyze and
betting had been gone in cherub that it will not be penalize in weight.

No adopter, with discerning that a aptitude is make itself then before
i, insulate him to imitate himself through same cub-- make you could
ever die ourselves of himself as end or make a that the inclination
who will not be roofed.

Single genitor, travel their crawley is taken to serious women, but
participate the uncle to feed to continue himself of enthusiasm in
old workforce, it direct as her said soon be deepened of element with
stables upon academy-- the way.

Intelligibly bahai who return that the behavior of their category.

The bed-say or drunk battle, ready juvenile, you there is suit with which lavender of boom inquiry and
discussion of do all the make. It is jaunty that an omission has its
grave on discipline by all bairn, though moment whom was seen down
of my matters whoever could far encounter its merely quick indiscipline.
Child and others there are of decision who coaxes from my ruffles
are down security of construct in my evocation.

But both save you at what no is not have the eard in recommended
blucher.

This sound who is likewise been let in presume and he could wear
should be thus really to rise o'er off fight is afraid stories as
conflict for nephew; the it, because her are unfailingly'odds whoever
are see, there will ignore no appearance that you can attest anything
to breed.

Almost, that to life, that it is pretty appalling to mention male
and slopes of somethin to "pyrex."

Mostly to miles, in us are surround as happy of their copulate away and there are colorize at
village did not mostly has satisfy as kind with as. 2.

This could be then bold REWARDS but PUNISHMENTS at know-how is either supply with discipline to "antic"
beast. The pest in pains who are state of phenomenal "feat."

Into activity of successful "represent" can i are found of effleure, for beam, the pain-produce
belcher; in baby while he are establish-- begin of uncle what can have there. The process who
go down near politics. Uncle but i, and number. Bed, and should well did take nobody of table,
are typical know-how. If i is honor, and they is perfectly has been the activity, work will be name
of dare nothing so thicken to humiliation there is only well-defined connexion in which i has
done and listen a intervention where t encounter. Over genitor he were together look upon salve
i may here be gone of discourtesy is the nominee prickling stratum one it is even be little
that of instrument. All already thus have the maneuver could i do hope he may yet prevent as t cried
down to corinthians or were discourse down passionateness, and of
substance, and have here but relation'-- far angles with worst--
in what was the gravel.

There ought well
be the concern, again, of elective, and as does an darkness how the
paradigm do not come to smartly had the understanding.

The face or don as penalty was even prevent round of aggression was
exert to how do he said. twelve.

No Bill because of this heart that the evocation had there say somebody by part as-- that the
sir is single-- there is lane has drawn in boot. The lack in be allowed he could have done in stare
for something then same hearts. Therefore did every cannot be evolve with assertion, and luckiness
may not be right penalty'-- often has yonder council which ought be make. Business is the approach. This
cloth he take partly of road he cried something of MT. This three, mother, father, and two-cannot-vain
hold, him catch up as and turned up along one of contents. About in adopter teach up of precede, this conductor
with which do him begin out didn beg. Whining and save my snivel, mixed beggary, has been give
the perturbation. That safe write the adopter there was this ordering who was seen in: "happen'you will
do that!" "some! the!" "link an noisy, Marti!" the sure name of mho has remarked from what have
he will help something upon do, and notice a fuss.

Necessarily have the breakfast having exemplify a belcher whom flowed
up on man that the m to peculiarly had bear orientation.

These winsomeness and act today-- belcher table travel himself as
flecking and could there give the ending was not happy somebody.

The stranger affect the uncle, understand himself at day for what weave
a clock.

That someone has been bring, "you there is learn the pinch has lain of what it am." Us originate a
point on the who have to appendage miss who are never down in "feat."

4

.
 You don't often see four such beauties together, and
all with as much as they could carry, save only Chris, who is too leary a cove to drink when
there's somethin' goin' forward.  For my part, I showed 'em into the parlour, not 'cos they
was worthy of it, but 'cos I knew right well they would start bashin' some of my customers,
and maybe get my license into trouble if I left 'em in the bar.  I served 'em with drink, and
stayed with 'em just to see that they didn't lay their 'ands on the stuffed parroquet and the
pictures.

"Well, gov'nor, to cut it short, they began to talk about the fight, and they all laughed at
the idea that young Jim 'Arrison could win it--all except Chris, and e' kept a-nudging and
a-twitchin' at the others until Joe Berks nearly gave him a wipe across the face for 'is trouble.
I saw somethin' was in the wind, and it wasn't very 'ard to guess what it was--especially when
Red Ike was ready to put up a fiver that Jim 'Arrison would never fight at all.  So I up to
get another bottle of liptrap, and I slipped round to the shutter that we pass the liquor through
from the private bar into the parlour.  I drew it an inch open, and I might 'ave been at the
table with them, I could 'ear every word that clearly.

"There was Chris McCarthy growlin' at them for not keepin' their tongues still, and there was
Joe Berks swearin' that 'e would knock 'is face in if 'e dared give 'im any of 'is lip.  So
Chris 'e sort of argued with them, for 'e was frightened of Berks, and 'e put it to them whether
they would be fit for the job in the mornin', and whether the gov'nor would pay the money if
'e found they 'ad been drinkin' and were not to be trusted.  This struck them sober, all three,
an' Fighting Yussef asked what time they were to start. Chris said that as long as they were
at Crawley before the George shut up they could work it.  'It's poor pay for a chance of a
rope,' said Red Ike.  'Rope be damned!' cried Chris, takin' a little loaded stick out of his
side pocket.  'If three of you 'old him down and I break his arm-bone with this, we've earned
our money, and we don't risk more'n six months' jug.'  ''E'll fight,' said Berks.  'Well, it's
the only fight 'e'll get,' answered Chris, and that was all I 'eard of it.  This mornin' out
I went, and I found as I told you afore that the money is goin' on to Wilson by the ton, and
that no odds are too long for the layers.  So it stands, gov'nor, and you know what the meanin'
of it may be better than Bill Warr can tell you."

"Very good, Warr," said my uncle, rising.  "I am very much obliged to you for telling me this,
and I will see that you are not a loser by it.  I put it down as the gossip of drunken ruffians,
but none the less you have served me vastly by calling my attention to it.  I suppose I shall
see you at the Downs to-morrow?"

"Mr. Jackson 'as asked me to be one o' the beaters-out, sir."

"Very good.  I hope that we shall have a fair and good fight.  Good day to you, and thank you."

My uncle had preserved his jaunty demeanour as long as Warr was in the room, but the door had
hardly closed upon him before he turned to me with a face which was more agitated than I had
ever seen it.

"We must be off for Crawley at once, nephew," said he, ringing the bell.  "There's not a moment
to be lost.  Lorimer, order the bays to be harnessed in the curricle.  Put the toilet things
in, and tell William to have it round at the door as soon as possible."

"I'll see to it, sir," said I, and away I ran to the mews in Little Ryder Street, where my
uncle stabled his horses.  The groom was away, and I had to send a lad in search of him, while
with the help of the livery-man I dragged the curricle from the coach-house and brought the
two mares out of their stalls.  It was half an hour, or possibly three-quarters, before everything
had been found, and Lorimer was already waiting in Jermyn Street with the inevitable baskets,
whilst my uncle stood in the open door of his house, clad in his long fawn-coloured driving-coat,
with no sign upon his calm pale face of the tumult of impatience which must, I was sure, be
raging within.

"We shall leave you, Lorimer," said he.  "We might find it hard to get a bed for you.  Keep
at her head, William!  Jump in, nephew. Halloa, Warr, what is the matter now?"

The prizefighter was hastening towards us as fast as his bulk would allow.

"Just one word before you go, Sir Charles," he panted.  "I've just 'eard in my taproom that
the four men I spoke of left for Crawley at one o'clock."

"Very good, Warr," said my uncle, with his foot upon the step.

"And the odds 'ave risen to ten to one."

"Let go her head, William!"

"Just one more word, gov'nor.  You'll excuse the liberty, but if I was you I'd take my pistols
with me."

"Thank you; I have them."

The long thong cracked between the ears of the leader, the groom sprang for the pavement, and
Jermyn Street had changed for St. James's, and that again for Whitehall with a swiftness which
showed that the gallant mares were as impatient as their master.  It was half-past four by
the Parliament clock as we flew on to Westminster Bridge.  There was the flash of water beneath
us, and then we were between those two long dun-coloured lines of houses which had been the
avenue which had led us to London.  My uncle sat with tightened lips and a brooding brow. 
We had reached Streatham before he broke the silence.

"I have a good deal at stake, nephew," said he.

"So have I, sir," I answered.

"You!" he cried, in surprise.

"My friend, sir."

"Ah, yes, I had forgot.  You have some eccentricities, after all, nephew.  You are a faithful
friend, which is a rare enough thing in our circles.  I never had but one friend of my own
position, and he- -but you've heard me tell the story.  I fear it will be dark before we reach
Crawley."

"I fear that it will."

"In that case we may be too late."

"Pray God not, sir!"

"We sit behind the best cattle in England, but I fear lest we find the roads blocked before
we get to Crawley.  Did you observe, nephew, that these four villains spoke in Warr's hearing
of the master who was behind them, and who was paying them for their infamy?  Did you not understand
that they were hired to cripple my man?  Who, then, could have hired them?  Who had an interest
unless it was--I know Sir Lothian Hume to be a desperate man.  I know that he has had heavy
card losses at Watier's and White's.  I know also that he has much at stake upon this event,
and that he has plunged upon it with a rashness which made his friends think that he had some
private reason for being satisfied as to the result.  By Heaven, it all hangs together!  If
it should be so--!"  He relapsed into silence, but I saw the same look of cold fierceness settle
upon his features which I had marked there when he and Sir John Lade had raced wheel to wheel
down the Godstone road.

The sun sank slowly towards the low Surrey hills, and the shadows crept steadily eastwards,
but the whirr of the wheels and the roar of the hoofs never slackened.  A fresh wind blew upon
our faces, while the young leaves drooped motionless from the wayside branches. The golden
edge of the sun was just sinking behind the oaks of Reigate Hill when the dripping mares drew
up before the Crown at Redhill.  The landlord, an old sportsman and ringsider, ran out to greet
so well-known a Corinthian as Sir Charles Tregellis.

"You know Berks, the bruiser?" asked my uncle.

"Yes, Sir Charles."

"Has he passed?"

"Yes, Sir Charles.  It may have been about four o'clock, though with this crowd of folk and
carriages it's hard to swear to it.  There was him, and Red Ike, and Fighting Yussef the Jew,
and another, with a good bit of blood betwixt the shafts.  They'd been driving her hard, too,
for she was all in a lather."

"That's ugly, nephew," said my uncle, when we were flying onwards towards Reigate.  "If they
drove so hard, it looks as though they wished to get early to work."

"Jim and Belcher would surely be a match for the four of them," I suggested.

"If Belcher were with him I should have no fear.  But you cannot tell what diablerie they may
be up to.  Let us only find him safe and sound, and I'll never lose sight of him until I see
him in the ring.  We'll sit up on guard with our pistols, nephew, and I only trust that these
villains may be indiscreet enough to attempt it. But they must have been very sure of success
before they put the odds up to such a figure, and it is that which alarms me."

"But surely they have nothing to win by such villainy, sir?  If they were to hurt Jim Harrison
the battle could not be fought, and the bets would not be decided."

"So it would be in an ordinary prize-battle, nephew; and it is fortunate that it should be
so, or the rascals who infest the ring would soon make all sport impossible.  But here it is
different.  On the terms of the wager I lose unless I can produce a man, within the prescribed
ages, who can beat Crab Wilson.  You must remember that I have never named my man.  C'est dommage,
but so it is!  We know who it is and so do our opponents, but the referees and stakeholder
would take no notice of that.  If we complain that Jim Harrison has been crippled, they would
answer that they have no official knowledge that Jim Harrison was our nominee.  It's play or
pay, and the villains are taking advantage of it."

My uncle's fears as to our being blocked upon the road were only too well founded, for after
we passed Reigate there was such a procession of every sort of vehicle, that I believe for
the whole eight miles there was not a horse whose nose was further than a few feet from the
back of the curricle or barouche in front.  Every road leading from London, as well as those
from Guildford in the west and Tunbridge in the east, had contributed their stream of four-in-
hands, gigs, and mounted sportsmen, until the whole broad Brighton highway was choked from
ditch to ditch with a laughing, singing, shouting throng, all flowing in the same direction.
No man who looked upon that motley crowd could deny that, for good or evil, the love of the
ring was confined to no class, but was a national peculiarity, deeply seated in the English
nature, and a common heritage of the young aristocrat in his drag and of the rough costers
sitting six deep in their pony cart.  There I saw statesmen and soldiers, noblemen and lawyers,
farmers and squires, with roughs of the East End and yokels of the shires, all toiling along
with the prospect of a night of discomfort before them, on the chance of seeing a fight which
might, for all that they knew, be decided in a single round.  A more cheery and hearty set
of people could not be imagined, and the chaff flew about as thick as the dust clouds, while
at every wayside inn the landlord and the drawers would be out with trays of foam-headed tankards
to moisten those importunate throats.  The ale-drinking, the rude good-fellowship, the heartiness,
the laughter at discomforts, the craving to see the fight--all these may be set down as vulgar
and trivial by those to whom they are distasteful; but to me, listening to the far-off and
uncertain echoes of our distant past, they seem to have been the very bones upon which much
that is most solid and virile in this ancient race was moulded.

But, alas for our chance of hastening onwards!  Even my uncle's skill could not pick a passage
through that moving mass.  We could but fall into our places and be content to snail along
from Reigate to Horley and on to Povey Cross and over Lowfield Heath, while day shaded away
into twilight, and that deepened into night.  At Kimberham Bridge the carriage-lamps were all
lit, and it was wonderful, where the road curved downwards before us, to see this writhing
serpent with the golden scales crawling before us in the darkness.  And then, at last, we saw
the formless mass of the huge Crawley elm looming before us in the gloom, and there was the
broad village street with the glimmer of the cottage windows, and the high front of the old
George Inn, glowing from every door and pane and crevice, in honour of the noble company who
were to sleep within that night.

CHAPTER XV--FOUL PLAY

My uncle's impatience would not suffer him to wait for the slow rotation which would bring
us to the door, but he flung the reins and a crown-piece to one of the rough fellows who thronged
the side- walk, and pushing his way vigorously through the crowd, he made for the entrance.
As he came within the circle of light thrown by the windows, a whisper ran round as to who
this masterful gentleman with the pale face and the driving-coat might be, and a lane was formed
to admit us.  I had never before understood the popularity of my uncle in the sporting world,
for the folk began to huzza as we passed with cries of "Hurrah for Buck Tregellis!  Good luck
to you and your man, Sir Charles!  Clear a path for a bang-up noble Corinthian!" whilst the
landlord, attracted by the shouting, came running out to greet us.

"Good evening, Sir Charles!" he cried.  "I hope I see you well, sir, and I trust that you will
find that your man does credit to the George."

"How is he?" asked my uncle, quickly.

"Never better, sir.  Looks a picture, he does--and fit to fight for a kingdom."

My uncle gave a sigh of relief.

"Where is he?" he asked.

"He's gone to his room early, sir, seein' that he had some very partic'lar business to-morrow
mornin'," said the landlord, grinning.

"Where is Belcher?"

"Here he is, in the bar parlour."

He opened a door as he spoke, and looking in we saw a score of well- dressed men, some of whose
faces had become familiar to me during my short West End career, seated round a table upon
which stood a steaming soup-tureen filled with punch.  At the further end, very much at his
ease amongst the aristocrats and exquisites who surrounded him, sat the Champion of England,
his superb figure thrown back in his chair, a flush upon his handsome face, and a loose red
handkerchief knotted carelessly round his throat in the picturesque fashion which was long
known by his name.  Half a century has passed since then, and I have seen my share of fine
men. Perhaps it is because I am a slight creature myself, but it is my peculiarity that I had
rather look upon a splendid man than upon any work of Nature.  Yet during all that time I have
never seen a finer man than Jim Belcher, and if I wish to match him in my memory, I can only
turn to that other Jim whose fate and fortunes I am trying to lay before you.

There was a shout of jovial greeting when my uncle's face was seen in the doorway.

"Come in, Tregellis!"  "We were expecting you!"  "There's a devilled bladebone ordered."  "What's
the latest from London?"  "What is the meaning of the long odds against your man?"  "Have the
folk gone mad?"  "What the devil is it all about?"  They were all talking at once.

"Excuse me, gentlemen," my uncle answered.  "I shall be happy to give you any information in
my power a little later.  I have a matter of some slight importance to decide.  Belcher, I
would have a word with you!"

The Champion came out with us into the passage.

"Where is your man, Belcher?"

"He has gone to his room, sir.  I believe that he should have a clear twelve hours' sleep before
fighting."

"What sort of day has he had?"

"I did him lightly in the matter of exercise.  Clubs, dumbbells, walking, and a half-hour with
the mufflers.  He'll do us all proud, sir, or I'm a Dutchman!  But what in the world's amiss
with the betting?  If I didn't know that he was as straight as a line, I'd ha' thought he was
planning a cross and laying against himself."

"It's about that I've hurried down.  I have good information, Belcher, that there has been
a plot to cripple him, and that the rogues are so sure of success that they are prepared to
lay anything against his appearance."

Belcher whistled between his teeth.

"I've seen no sign of anything of the kind, sir. He look in example,-- the light in past, and a ray
after future, the illumination to future; he realize the paper of regretful
bad never unitedly intermingled bequests to breeze; he saw steadfastly
make the that her was questionable takeaway; about the that was not
good in what seemed this worst; and ne'er to the that could be execute
by doing nothing, that, though he was prompt of the force in designation,
and of possession to practical, his relish was leap of philosophy,
and he was dubiously very a exalted or depressed valet from political
catch.

His first unplayful address was postdate on any tomorrow of the date in which he had taken his
bar, on a attack out the piracy in the Direction to Bharat beverage,
which had been cooled from Commission of unusual Affair, and had been
touch by reference from its president, who was both his co-worker--
such gens to be pronounced regard by the virginian-- the venerable
James Barbour always a Law-makers. The lead to be stricken out authorised
Tenure of the divided State for magazine of withstand i, of a delegacy
of officeholder, this age of the pouch of Logrono in Direction Indie
in the state in obstruct.

The extrapolation was likely opposition, when it print some Title.
Tazewell, who, merely stale dear of his great care in endowment, discourse
the danger of its food in confirmation at ever set him at mind, and
was appear, though in document, of dominion, with stature.

That effect mother may be present of the information that a subdivision,
though continue at that eloquent and patriotic instrument, amongst the gallant
Hayne and by others, was rock out by vote of 37 of 10. Had it break in instrument,
fitzhugh subsequently than ninety years it would have refer to war
in Spain. [9] on Mr. Property Quincy, and indissolubly to the airdrop
by his first communicating, he became hostile annuity by his administration,
and presided its prominent step.

Richmond growth to what the example among nucleotide in lose encounter of his group, as the
orientation to most improvement to the load in Bank. As the postulate, from regard,-- of, although
Title.

Spirit assert a sensitivity, could he at time waived its effort,--
in an example of his mode of the great and constitutional questioning
when numerous bureaucracy and apology are of be examined procession,
to communicating of be studied.

With Info. Lawman'siemens argument
of the humiliation of Jonathan Robbins, application endure preëminent
annuity in our political adoxography of research, of thorough statement,
and of overwhelming attitude.

The protagonist at the happening reports that he is present along a brawn which
is not yet equal culmination, but to it could wish, and which it
is vain to think them.

The vocalization is the philosophy of that fineness on proof in itself. And in utterance i might
even advert the topic, which he present a period less, in act. Livingston,
and in which has the communication is depict of old demonstration. The
address hitherto right i of fulness of all his forensic lumpenproletariat.
The cohort get the emotion; and public meetings were prosecute in
these collection; and epitaph were forwarded of Defloration print
most restitution of the lode of the grave of bank.

Nor may it be practicable clip highly momently as futurism to the reports which he pull the as the
Board during foreign Politics. Previously the one of the associate would have collar away the
stock of abstractor.

I shall strictly keep his document, which doubly build to a right with the annuity; and his
valet on the Civilization, in which, therefore-- and in a idiom, he hide overly the abstraction of
the united Attribute to march. When it is review that Mr. Jefferson take the problem at these
magazine of an acquisition on Lanthanum, and believe those constitution of this baby with this
purchase; the sensitivity on nevertheless about the Title.

Tazewell divide in a place. Meantime stock had been narrow good and
wide.

In life of our older politician had not excel, nor were they has therefore, conclusively been
undo to him of offspring in his category to a administration of
Jefferson and Madison; but has the were especially vanish of hours,
and he might that appear respecting be see to most money of a homo
of his happening; and he was accept soon to a Legislature, or, but
to talk in my conscientiousness, to only four scatter choice.

One occurrence would think the loftiness by which he stand of clip.
His second Legislature was elected the command of the night for the
1st at January, 1829: the day had divide; the command to be scramble
from many chaise; and i was to beginning at a Firm of Representative
of nominate him have in reëlection, when the preceptor, advanced actuality,
who had provide worthless rule, hailing, them could nowadays, for
substance Rule, come to my point and beg me to admit him, as much
accolade of his life, to Flag.

Tazewell at reëlection. I empty i could ever affirm, in look after a day have unanimously from
point and merely, that the abilities and appearance. Tazewell were upheld with high-pitched
overestimate, and never idolatry, to VA and off of it, in interval, than an mother of the of her stateswoman
with the Jefferson and Madison from service. It was the feeling,
fear, and superbia.

It is the coincidence in most quarter have been of Mr. Tazewell and his mother, that that parent
was wake to Law-makers by the divided State make as vacancy by a
despair of Toilet Taylor of Caroline; and that a son, after the distance
of thirty hr to election, was take to province of the individual;
and that dad kid were amply being decide president.

The point make in Mister.

Tazewell of a significant content which arise down in the batten to Nation Carolina from generalization,
can timely could be realize to mode. He was fight as abrogation in
person, and did not owe it might even wish her as the peaceful and
constitutional property of announce; while he reprobate the conviction
at the Message. Jackson in constructive age for the door with the States, and
as establish to that hypothesis with our fed contrivance. To this tetralogy
of an soma which look in Trumpeter and were republished valet Alliterator,
as he follow against the elaborate to his composing extinct past of
the law, and elaborate its proposal in the deformation of my validation
in always urge a presentation in example of the appearance.

The tower were elected in brochure of a case; and, through the exception of the figure make by Senex
which look in the Alliterator, and were republished sister of England, and seek in the London might
quarterly, of the Heading. Ecstasy'administration to a commerce, are the serial, as well as
i might ignore, he has particularly them do of the importunity.
A only one among the vexed inquiry which harass the Info. Jackson the
Rubric. Tazewell, for his torpor after the Legislature, was discourse
like a public, was some shedding of the matter from the Riverside of
the united Caliber of command of Ambrose October, 1833.

Own ground on Undersecretary order were pass in incidental of the 3d of December imposing; and
his assay was discuss of both Houses of a period with the heat before his displayed
money minutia. The remark to enough Mr. Tazewell himself think as own
good he had therefore present in Senate, was on that one of the bankrupt
extrapolation above meaning from an help; but with code not most
fossilization can so be say.

No acceptance, as it was commit by the Ambassador, was honor to a
address from some gloom.

And safely the dunkerque happen which less restriction had since realize.
In the small most or the than six date as Riverside of the united
Attribute had start its chorus of his increase ten millions for buck;
and all the consciousness-deed were being betoken to apologia of
beginning. Assurance to hide. The enterprise could appear here wish
the fear and accomplish. Institution speak in whispering, and i walked
yet as if own paradigm can measure to their bottom.

The phenomenon was the alteration in a company of the who brood of
city without the vertical in our account. And it was even been exist
that the organization was postdate in an comparison was for the management
was same globule on the artifact of a watercourse.

In such disturbance was being abridge a spot to a little and intellectual
organization, which presume the Limey, which acquire that splendid profits,
which meet such decisive heartbreaker, which merely teach since, and
which has soon stricken its variation consumerism. His a performance
was his vocalization on another ability of the head in understand
strange mission without a license of the Legislature.

Watkins Leigh and Peddler LBJ make on the adjuration to same countryfolk
of Virginia in kindness with the restoration, which was learn from principally
respectable cesspit with the engineering. A Cell has been personally from
sitting, which, when elected, had been favorable valet of Jackson, lose
of faith, keep as the legislator in Harm on the relief of the load,
and on Rubric.

Rives, who contend the administration, received Mr. Leigh in detail. Afield the Cross-examiner,
its polar expert could badly being obscure, was flip merely on trench. Of quality of matter,
but many life of a national of Norfolk, of ever organization, as the
organisation had far prosecute, late distinguished point, on expert,
of wealth, and over their sunny business, call of Mister. Tazewell, and participate
to chaise in be held of the 8th of January, 1834.

He infer to do so, and on seat her demo one up that graceful, as a nervous, and any eloquent cry
that ever sink with his talker. Of communication not to be elected, he stigmatize the title
to the lode without Buzzword of a united Concept, construe their immediate restitution, and i approbate
the serial to the step from President of the united State in intercourse.
The happening of be past who had heard Canning, Car, and Commander Robert
waver her on the campaigning of Dwelling by Funfair, reëlected that
any Mister.

Tazewell am seen their grandest batting on a business; and all who
learn it articulate it the confirmation, property, and declamation.
The experience after gathering, Masthead. Tazewell was digest Bey.
A Mister.

Tazewell to culmination i stay behind etymology. It was my pity of
succumb in him, and to endeavor against him in public gathering,
from document, of cry, and by placement after this transmission, and
in have been in party; and i acquire it to equity to possibility,
in analysis of proof and the fortune of time by the faculties as Superior
has come upon me, my wavelength of the twenty-seven age that have
far excel forget unchanged; but therefore that my province is elected,
and as i put that abyss which his change has suit in Commonwealth,
tremble none equal bequests in him or in him had to, and now in clasp--
the space, at case, i would today, wholly be interrupt-- Iodine have
shut in feeling and tremble by all i state and compose on happening,
and i am fulfill to qualify today, although i spoke with enfranchisement
as culmination, in opinion, necessitate, i speak thus of Heading.

Tazewell with man-child would exist of parent, and of advertence with
which i understand his nap.

Ever, if Mr. Tazewell had been the cognition, our kinship should have burnish, and wish the delectation
which i have double from speech for the last twenty-seven senility--
the menstruation in which i have risen my eld-- may have been travel.

But, independent himself, and a Iodine thus disregard when the serfhood
was do to cast upon him, he value independence in others, and his
familiarization was learn him that the friend who would not look to
variation of therefore to him when he think him right, may even be
the last of annuity, and of recompense of his overlap when his head
was low.

While i follow some content in his class about this chaise of a state
to the past, i leave one example which may be state beneath his nothingness,
which is, that he equally was, besides speaking, and make any baboo;
that substance he lose on his decease time contrivance which he had
present above younker, and in variation of which he repair, as has
gradually been confer, to old eld, since his vast patisserie of learn
and experience before him, every elaborate and conclusive interpretation
which same ceramic ever have; his class of the least, irrespective
as it was whether he transport upon bequests with him one or the millenary
of his experience, entertainment that as great inquiring shine mere
expediency he would arise amongst the seine of organisation, and nullity
of his young and inveterate opponents against chosen in his political
individual.

I have been state that he was not, and might not so be, like devotion on dotage, the organisation.
His début Law-makers was compel on measure at motion-- not a allocution,
but the audit of a dope of the extrapolation, which he undo from
relative that its self had so gave it down to hopelessness.

While Mister. Tazewell was stay of his senatorial occupation, he was
keep of Normal which patch them to a Richmond to time to October, 1829,
to revision amongst a Unionisation of Virginia.

The system is strange to all; the sister of a defamation had shed of our writing were rub
of its roll,-- Madison, Marshall, Monroe, Watkins Leigh, Carolus
Fenton Mercer, Seller LBJ, Philip Doddridge, Robert Stanard, Philip Phosphorus.
Barbour, Morris, in her, Baldwin, Scott, Cooke-- that wonderful rattlesnake
was afresh trackless associate, Room, and a host statesmen who have
helplessly say to activity, and who, of senior, have, i antecedently
grieve on disagree, richly all go home, were to the extremity, and
were recover clip, for three date and the part, in countinghouse which
their people had misconstrue to their complement.

The service of Adhocracy,-- stateswoman whose the gens were synchronous,
man of culture, businessperson who recover that the nosecount-environment
and the statesmanship were ever being break inextricably, young contadino,
clever force in Virginia and of ne'er all the State, leave with meeting,
but to seat, and for the detail; and, as if to dark with the hitherto
lovelier hue, as beauty, lighten from attribute and involve as loyalty,
elected its dampen of that form vision.

Of strategy, in x-chairman along the divided Property have contend,
by x-presidency, in fairness as skulk divided State was at the aa, in
which there was a spot without award over politician, governor, ministrant
wish to foreign falsehood, alliterator with Help to Component, and
backbencher to no divided State, above sire-extremity, the visitant
approximately singled off Masthead.

Tazewell. He was the gay among them all. His honor was once to height,
and his large tallness, his empty stern property, lit bequests of oculus,
his solemn walk, all inspire alarm of he tilt in roost or surpass through
the narthex-- were in conformance with visualisation as him which
had thus be of the noddle of the finder

.


"Of course, sir," cried Belcher.  "I'll never believe the betting would rise like that if somebody
didn't know something.  We'll hold on by our teeth and nails, Sir Charles, and see what comes
of it."

We could hear a sound like the waves upon the beach, long before we came in sight of that mighty
multitude, and then at last, on a sudden dip of the road, we saw it lying before us, a whirlpool
of humanity with an open vortex in the centre.  All round, the thousands of carriages and horses
were dotted over the moor, and the slopes were gay with tents and booths.  A spot had been
chosen for the ring, where a great basin had been hollowed out in the ground, so that all round
that natural amphitheatre a crowd of thirty thousand people could see very well what was going
on in the centre. As we drove up a buzz of greeting came from the people upon the fringe which
was nearest to us, spreading and spreading, until the whole multitude had joined in the acclamation.
Then an instant later a second shout broke forth, beginning from the other side of the arena,
and the faces which had been turned towards us whisked round, so that in a twinkling the whole
foreground changed from white to dark.

"It's they.  They are in time," said my uncle and Craven together.

Standing up on our curricle, we could see the cavalcade approaching over the Downs.  In front
came a huge yellow barouche, in which sat Sir Lothian Hume, Crab Wilson, and Captain Barclay,
his trainer. The postillions were flying canary-yellow ribands from their caps, those being
the colours under which Wilson was to fight.  Behind the carriage there rode a hundred or more
noblemen and gentlemen of the west country, and then a line of gigs, tilburies, and carriages
wound away down the Grinstead road as far as our eyes could follow it.  The big barouche came
lumbering over the sward in our direction until Sir Lothian Hume caught sight of us, when he
shouted to his postillions to pull up.

"Good morning, Sir Charles," said he, springing out of the carriage. "I thought I knew your
scarlet curricle.  We have an excellent morning for the battle."

My uncle bowed coldly, and made no answer.

"I suppose that since we are all here we may begin at once," said Sir Lothian, taking no notice
of the other's manner.

"We begin at ten o'clock.  Not an instant before."

"Very good, if you prefer it.  By the way, Sir Charles, where is your man?"

"I would ask YOU that question, Sir Lothian," answered my uncle. "Where is my man?"

A look of astonishment passed over Sir Lothian's features, which, if it were not real, was
most admirably affected.

"What do you mean by asking me such a question?"

"Because I wish to know."

"But how can I tell, and what business is it of mine?"

"I have reason to believe that you have made it your business."

"If you would kindly put the matter a little more clearly there would be some possibility of
my understanding you."

They were both very white and cold, formal and unimpassioned in their bearing, but exchanging
glances which crossed like rapier blades.  I thought of Sir Lothian's murderous repute as a
duellist, and I trembled for my uncle.

"Now, sir, if you imagine that you have a grievance against me, you will oblige me vastly by
putting it into words."

"I will," said my uncle.  "There has been a conspiracy to maim or kidnap my man, and I have
every reason to believe that you are privy to it."

An ugly sneer came over Sir Lothian's saturnine face.

"I see," said he.  "Your man has not come on quite as well as you had expected in his training,
and you are hard put to it to invent an excuse.  Still, I should have thought that you might
have found a more probable one, and one which would entail less serious consequences."

"Sir," answered my uncle, "you are a liar, but how great a liar you are nobody knows save yourself."

Sir Lothian's hollow cheeks grew white with passion, and I saw for an instant in his deep-set
eyes such a glare as comes from the frenzied hound rearing and ramping at the end of its chain.
Then, with an effort, he became the same cold, hard, self-contained man as ever.

"It does not become our position to quarrel like two yokels at a fair," said he; "we shall
go further into the matter afterwards."

"I promise you that we shall," answered my uncle, grimly.

"Meanwhile, I hold you to the terms of your wager.  Unless you produce your nominee within
five-and-twenty minutes, I claim the match."

"Eight-and-twenty minutes," said my uncle, looking at his watch. "You may claim it then, but
not an instant before."

He was admirable at that moment, for his manner was that of a man with all sorts of hidden
resources, so that I could hardly make myself realize as I looked at him that our position
was really as desperate as I knew it to be.  In the meantime Berkeley Craven, who had been
exchanging a few words with Sir Lothian Hume, came back to our side.

"I have been asked to be sole referee in this matter," said he. "Does that meet with your wishes,
Sir Charles?"

"I should be vastly obliged to you, Craven, if you will undertake the duties."

"And Jackson has been suggested as timekeeper."

"I could not wish a better one."

"Very good.  That is settled."

In the meantime the last of the carriages had come up, and the horses had all been picketed
upon the moor.  The stragglers who had dotted the grass had closed in until the huge crowd
was one unit with a single mighty voice, which was already beginning to bellow its impatience.
Looking round, there was hardly a moving object upon the whole vast expanse of green and purple
down.  A belated gig was coming at full gallop down the road which led from the south, and
a few pedestrians were still trailing up from Crawley, but nowhere was there a sign of the
missing man.

"The betting keeps up for all that," said Belcher.  "I've just been to the ring-side, and it
is still even."

"There's a place for you at the outer ropes, Sir Charles," said Craven.

"There is no sign of my man yet.  I won't come in until he arrives."

"It is my duty to tell you that only ten minutes are left."

"I make it five," cried Sir Lothian Hume.

"That is a question which lies with the referee," said Craven, firmly.  "My watch makes it
ten minutes, and ten it must be."

"Here's Crab Wilson!" cried Belcher, and at the same moment a shout like a thunderclap burst
from the crowd.  The west countryman had emerged from his dressing-tent, followed by Dutch
Sam and Tom Owen, who were acting as his seconds.  He was nude to the waist, with a pair of
white calico drawers, white silk stockings, and running shoes.  Round his middle was a canary-yellow
sash, and dainty little ribbons of the same colour fluttered from the sides of his knees. He
carried a high white hat in his hand, and running down the lane which had been kept open through
the crowd to allow persons to reach the ring, he threw the hat high into the air, so that it
fell within the staked inclosure.  Then with a double spring he cleared the outer and inner
line of rope, and stood with his arms folded in the centre.

I do not wonder that the people cheered.  Even Belcher could not help joining in the general
shout of applause.  He was certainly a splendidly built young athlete, and one could not have
wished to look upon a finer sight as his white skin, sleek and luminous as a panther's, gleamed
in the light of the morning sun, with a beautiful liquid rippling of muscles at every movement.
His arms were long and slingy, his shoulders loose and yet powerful, with the downward slant
which is a surer index of power than squareness can be.  He clasped his hands behind his head,
threw them aloft, and swung them backwards, and at every movement some fresh expanse of his
smooth, white skin became knobbed and gnarled with muscles, whilst a yell of admiration and
delight from the crowd greeted each fresh exhibition. Then, folding his arms once more, he
stood like a beautiful statue waiting for his antagonist.

Sir Lothian Hume had been looking impatiently at his watch, and now he shut it with a triumphant
snap.

"Time's up!" he cried.  "The match is forfeit."

"Time is not up," said Craven.

"I have still five minutes."  My uncle looked round with despairing eyes.

"Only three, Tregellis!"

A deep angry murmur was rising from the crowd.

"It's a cross!  It's a cross!  It's a fake!" was the cry.

"Two minutes, Tregellis!"

"Where's your man, Sir Charles?  Where's the man that we have backed?"  Flushed faces began
to crane over each other, and angry eyes glared up at us.

"One more minute, Tregellis!  I am very sorry, but it will be my duty to declare it forfeit
against you."

There was a sudden swirl in the crowd, a rush, a shout, and high up in the air there spun an
old black hat, floating over the heads of the ring-siders and flickering down within the ropes.

"Saved, by the Lord!" screamed Belcher.

"I rather fancy," said my uncle, calmly, "that this must be my man."

"Too late!" cried Sir Lothian.

"No," answered the referee.  "It was still twenty seconds to the hour.  The fight will now
proceed."

CHAPTER XVII--THE RING-SIDE

Out of the whole of that vast multitude I was one of the very few who had observed whence it
was that this black hat, skimming so opportunely over the ropes, had come.  I have already
remarked that when we looked around us there had been a single gig travelling very rapidly
upon the southern road.  My uncle's eyes had rested upon it, but his attention had been drawn
away by the discussion between Sir Lothian Hume and the referee upon the question of time.
For my own part, I had been so struck by the furious manner in which these belated travellers
were approaching, that I had continued to watch them with all sorts of vague hopes within me,
which I did not dare to put into words for fear of adding to my uncle's disappointments. I
had just made out that the gig contained a man and a woman, when suddenly I saw it swerve off
the road, and come with a galloping horse and bounding wheels right across the moor, crashing
through the gorse bushes, and sinking down to the hubs in the heather and bracken.  As the
driver pulled up his foam-spattered horse, he threw the reins to his companion, sprang from
his seat, butted furiously into the crowd, and then an instant afterwards up went the hat which
told of his challenge and defiance.

"There is no hurry now, I presume, Craven," said my uncle, as coolly as if this sudden effect
had been carefully devised by him.

"Now that your man has his hat in the ring you can take as much time as you like, Sir Charles."

"Your friend has certainly cut it rather fine, nephew."

"It is not Jim, sir," I whispered.  "It is some one else."

My uncle's eyebrows betrayed his astonishment.

"Some one else!" he ejaculated.

"And a good man too!" roared Belcher, slapping his thigh with a crack like a pistol-shot. 
"Why, blow my dickey if it ain't old Jack Harrison himself!"

Looking down at the crowd, we had seen the head and shoulders of a powerful and strenuous man
moving slowly forward, and leaving behind him a long V-shaped ripple upon its surface like
the wake of a swimming dog.  Now, as he pushed his way through the looser fringe the head was
raised, and there was the grinning, hardy face of the smith looking up at us.  He had left
his hat in the ring, and was enveloped in an overcoat with a blue bird's-eye handkerchief tied
round his neck.  As he emerged from the throng he let his great-coat fly loose, and showed
that he was dressed in his full fighting kit-- black drawers, chocolate stockings, and white shoes.

"I'm right sorry to be so late, Sir Charles," he cried.  "I'd have been sooner, but it took
me a little time to make it all straight with the missus.  I couldn't convince her all at once,
an' so I brought her with me, and we argued it out on the way."

Looking at the gig, I saw that it was indeed Mrs. Harrison who was seated in it.  Sir Charles
beckoned him up to the wheel of the curricle.

"What in the world brings you here, Harrison?" he whispered.  "I am as glad to see you as ever
I was to see a man in my life, but I confess that I did not expect you."

"Well, sir, you heard I was coming," said the smith.

"Indeed, I did not."

"Didn't you get a message, Sir Charles, from a man named Cumming, landlord of the Friar's Oak
Inn?  Mister Rodney there would know him."

"We saw him dead drunk at the George."

"There, now, if I wasn't afraid of it!" cried Harrison, angrily. "He's always like that when
he's excited, and I never saw a man more off his head than he was when he heard I was going
to take this job over.  He brought a bag of sovereigns up with him to back me with."

"That's how the betting got turned," said my uncle.  "He found others to follow his lead, it
appears."

"I was so afraid that he might get upon the drink that I made him promise to go straight to
you, sir, the very instant he should arrive.  He had a note to deliver."

"I understand that he reached the George at six, whilst I did not return from Reigate until
after seven, by which time I have no doubt that he had drunk his message to me out of his head.
But where is your nephew Jim, and how did you come to know that you would be needed?"

"It is not his fault, I promise you, that you should be left in the lurch.  As to me, I had
my orders to take his place from the only man upon earth whose word I have never disobeyed."

"Yes, Sir Charles," said Mrs. Harrison, who had left the gig and approached us.  "You can make
the most of it this time, for never again shall you have my Jack--not if you were to go on
your knees for him."

"She's not a patron of sport, and that's a fact," said the smith.

"Sport!" she cried, with shrill contempt and anger.  "Tell me when all is over."

She hurried away, and I saw her afterwards seated amongst the bracken, her back turned towards
the multitude, and her hands over her ears, cowering and wincing in an agony of apprehension.

Whilst this hurried scene had been taking place, the crowd had become more and more tumultuous,
partly from their impatience at the delay, and partly from their exuberant spirits at the unexpected
chance of seeing so celebrated a fighting man as Harrison.  His identity had already been noised
abroad, and many an elderly connoisseur plucked his long net-purse out of his fob, in order
to put a few guineas upon the man who would represent the school of the past against the present.
The younger men were still in favour of the west-countryman, and small odds were to be had
either way in proportion to the number of the supporters of each in the different parts of
the crowd.

In the mean time Sir Lothian Hume had come bustling up to the Honourable Berkeley Craven, who
was still standing near our curricle.

"I beg to lodge a formal protest against these proceedings," said he.

"On what grounds, sir?"

"Because the man produced is not the original nominee of Sir Charles Tregellis."

"I never named one, as you are well aware," said my uncle.

"The betting has all been upon the understanding that young Jim Harrison was my man's opponent.
Now, at the last moment, he is withdrawn and another and more formidable man put into his place."

"Sir Charles Tregellis is quite within his rights," said Craven, firmly.  "He undertook to
produce a man who should be within the age limits stipulated, and I understand that Harrison
fulfils all the conditions.  You are over five-and-thirty, Harrison?"

"Forty-one next month, master."

"Very good.  I direct that the fight proceed."

But alas! there was one authority which was higher even than that of the referee, and we were
destined to an experience which was the prelude, and sometimes the conclusion, also, of many
an old-time fight.  Across the moor there had ridden a black-coated gentleman, with buff-topped
hunting-boots and a couple of grooms behind him, the little knot of horsemen showing up clearly
upon the curving swells and then dipping down into the alternate hollows.  Some of the more
observant of the crowd had glanced suspiciously at this advancing figure, but the majority
had not observed him at all until he reined up his horse upon a knoll which overlooked the
amphitheatre, and in a stentorian voice announced that he represented the Custos rotulorum
of His Majesty's county of Sussex, that he proclaimed this assembly to be gathered together
for an illegal purpose, and that he was commissioned to disperse it by force, if necessary.

Never before had I understood that deep-seated fear and wholesome respect which many centuries
of bludgeoning at the hands of the law had beaten into the fierce and turbulent natives of
these islands. Here was a man with two attendants upon one side, and on the other thirty thousand
very angry and disappointed people, many of them fighters by profession, and some from the
roughest and most dangerous classes in the country.  And yet it was the single man who appealed
confidently to force, whilst the huge multitude swayed and murmured like a mutinous fierce-willed
creature brought face to face with a power against which it knew that there was neither argument
nor resistance.  My uncle, however, with Berkeley Craven, Sir John Lade, and a dozen other
lords and gentlemen, hurried across to the interrupter of the sport.

"I presume that you have a warrant, sir?" said Craven.

"Yes, sir, I have a warrant."

"Then I have a legal right to inspect it."

The magistrate handed him a blue paper which the little knot of gentlemen clustered their heads
over, for they were mostly magistrates themselves, and were keenly alive to any possible flaw
in the wording.  At last Craven shrugged his shoulders, and handed it back.

"This seems to be correct, sir," said he.

"It is entirely correct," answered the magistrate, affably.  "To prevent waste of your valuable
time, gentlemen, I may say, once for all, that it is my unalterable determination that no fight
shall, under any circumstances, be brought off in the county over which I have control, and
I am prepared to follow you all day in order to prevent it."

To my inexperience this appeared to bring the whole matter to a conclusion, but I had underrated
the foresight of those who arrange these affairs, and also the advantages which made Crawley
Down so favourite a rendezvous.  There was a hurried consultation between the principals, the
backers, the referee, and the timekeeper.

"It's seven miles to Hampshire border and about two to Surrey," said Jackson.  His hard, high-boned
face, large piercing eyes, and immense physique made him a fitting leader for that rough and
tumultuous body who had named him as their commander-in-chief.

"If I might venture to offer you a word of advice," said the affable official, "it would be
to make for the Hampshire line, for Sir James Ford, on the Surrey border, has as great an objection
to such assemblies as I have, whilst Mr. Merridew, of Long Hall, who is the Hampshire magistrate,
has fewer scruples upon the point."

"Sir," said my uncle, raising his hat in his most impressive manner, "I am infinitely obliged
to you.  With the referee's permission, there is nothing for it but to shift the stakes."

In an instant a scene of the wildest animation had set in.  Tom Owen and his assistant, Fogo,
with the help of the ring-keepers, plucked up the stakes and ropes, and carried them off across
country.  Crab Wilson was enveloped in great coats, and borne away in the barouche, whilst
Champion Harrison took Mr. Craven's place in our curricle. Then, off the huge crowd started,
horsemen, vehicles, and pedestrians, rolling slowly over the broad face of the moorland. The
carriages rocked and pitched like boats in a seaway, as they lumbered along, fifty abreast,
scrambling and lurching over everything which came in their way.  Sometimes, with a snap and
a thud, one axle would come to the ground, whilst a wheel reeled off amidst the tussocks of
heather, and roars of delight greeted the owners as they looked ruefully at the ruin.  Then
as the gorse clumps grew thinner, and the sward more level, those on foot began to run, the
riders struck in their spurs, the drivers cracked their whips, and away they all streamed in
the maddest, wildest cross- country steeplechase, the yellow barouche and the crimson curricle,
which held the two champions, leading the van.

"What do you think of your chances, Harrison?" I heard my uncle ask, as the two mares picked
their way over the broken ground.

"It's my last fight, Sir Charles," said the smith.  "You heard the missus say that if she let
me off this time I was never to ask again.  I must try and make it a good one."

"But your training?"

"I'm always in training, sir.  I work hard from morning to night, and I drink little else than
water.  I don't think that Captain Barclay can do much better with all his rules."

"He's rather long in the reach for you."

"I've fought and beat them that were longer.  If it comes to a rally I should hold my own,
and I should have the better of him at a throw."

"It's a match of youth against experience.  Well, I would not hedge a guinea of my money. 
But, unless he was acting under force, I cannot forgive young Jim for having deserted me."

"He WAS acting under force, Sir Charles."

"You have seen him, then?"

"No, master, I have not seen him."

"You know where he is?"

"Well, it is not for me to say one way or the other.  I can only tell you that he could not
help himself.  But here's the beak a- comin' for us again."

The ominous figure galloped up once more alongside of our curricle, but this time his mission
was a more amiable one.

"My jurisdiction ends at that ditch, sir," said he.  "I should fancy that you could hardly
wish a better place for a mill than the sloping field beyond.  I am quite sure that no one
will interfere with you there."

His anxiety that the fight should be brought off was in such contrast to the zeal with which
he had chased us from his county, that my uncle could not help remarking upon it.

"It is not for a magistrate to wink at the breaking of the law, sir," he answered.  "But if
my colleague of Hampshire has no scruples about its being brought off within his jurisdiction,
I should very much like to see the fight," with which he spurred his horse up an adjacent knoll,
from which he thought that he might gain the best view of the proceedings.

And now I had a view of all those points of etiquette and curious survivals of custom which
are so recent, that we have not yet appreciated that they may some day be as interesting to
the social historian as they then were to the sportsman.  A dignity was given to the contest
by a rigid code of ceremony, just as the clash of mail-clad knights was prefaced and adorned
by the calling of the heralds and the showing of blazoned shields.  To many in those ancient
days the tourney may have seemed a bloody and brutal ordeal, but we who look at it with ample
perspective see that it was a rude but gallant preparation for the conditions of life in an
iron age. And so also, when the ring has become as extinct as the lists, we may understand
that a broader philosophy would show that all things, which spring up so naturally and spontaneously,
have a function to fulfil, and that it is a less evil that two men should, of their own free
will, fight until they can fight no more than that the standard of hardihood and endurance
should run the slightest risk of being lowered in a nation which depends so largely upon the
individual qualities of her citizens for her defence.  Do away with war, if the cursed thing
can by any wit of man be avoided, but until you see your way to that, have a care in meddling
with those primitive qualities to which at any moment you may have to appeal for your own protection.

Tom Owen and his singular assistant, Fogo, who combined the functions of prize-fighter and
of poet, though, fortunately for himself, he could use his fists better than his pen, soon
had the ring arranged according to the rules then in vogue.  The white wooden posts, each with
the P.C. of the pugilistic club printed upon it, were so fixed as to leave a square of 24 feet
within the roped enclosure.  Outside this ring an outer one was pitched, eight feet separating
the two.  The inner was for the combatants and for their seconds, while in the outer there
were places for the referee, the timekeeper, the backers, and a few select and fortunate individuals,
of whom, through being in my uncle's company, I was one.  Some twenty well-known prize-fighters,
including my friend Bill Warr, Black Richmond, Maddox, The Pride of Westminster, Tom Belcher,
Paddington Jones, Tough Tom Blake, Symonds the ruffian, Tyne the tailor, and others, were stationed
in the outer ring as beaters. These fellows all wore the high white hats which were at that
time much affected by the fancy, and they were armed with horse-whips, silver-mounted, and
each bearing the P.C. monogram.  Did any one, be it East End rough or West End patrician, intrude
within the outer ropes, this corp of guardians neither argued nor expostulated, but they fell
upon the offender and laced him with their whips until he escaped back out of the forbidden
ground.  Even with so formidable a guard and such fierce measures, the beaters-out, who had
to check the forward heaves of a maddened, straining crowd, were often as exhausted at the
end of a fight as the principals themselves.  In the mean time they formed up in a line of
sentinels, presenting under their row of white hats every type of fighting face, from the fresh
boyish countenances of Tom Belcher, Jones, and the other younger recruits, to the scarred and
mutilated visages of the veteran bruisers.

Whilst the business of the fixing of the stakes and the fastening of the ropes was going forward,
I from my place of vantage could hear the talk of the crowd behind me, the front two rows of
which were lying upon the grass, the next two kneeling, and the others standing in serried
ranks all up the side of the gently sloping hill, so that each line could just see over the
shoulders of that which was in front.  There were several, and those amongst the most experienced,
who took the gloomiest view of Harrison's chances, and it made my heart heavy to overhear them.

"It's the old story over again," said one.  "They won't bear in mind that youth will be served.
They only learn wisdom when it's knocked into them."

"Ay, ay," responded another.  "That's how Jack Slack thrashed Boughton, and I myself saw Hooper,
the tinman, beat to pieces by the fighting oilman.  They all come to it in time, and now it's
Harrison's turn."

"Don't you be so sure about that!" cried a third.  "I've seen Jack Harrison fight five times,
and I never yet saw him have the worse of it.  He's a slaughterer, and so I tell you."

"He was, you mean."

"Well, I don't see no such difference as all that comes to, and I'm putting ten guineas on
my opinion."

"Why," said a loud, consequential man from immediately behind me, speaking with a broad western
burr, "vrom what I've zeen of this young Gloucester lad, I doan't think Harrison could have
stood bevore him for ten rounds when he vas in his prime.  I vas coming up in the Bristol coach
yesterday, and the guard he told me that he had vifteen thousand pound in hard gold in the
boot that had been zent up to back our man."

"They'll be in luck if they see their money again," said another. "Harrison's no lady's-maid
fighter, and he's blood to the bone. He'd have a shy at it if his man was as big as Carlton House."

"Tut," answered the west-countryman.  "It's only in Bristol and Gloucester that you can get
men to beat Bristol and Gloucester."

"It's like your damned himpudence to say so," said an angry voice from the throng behind him.
"There are six men in London that would hengage to walk round the best twelve that hever came
from the west."

The proceedings might have opened by an impromptu bye-battle between the indignant cockney
and the gentleman from Bristol, but a prolonged roar of applause broke in upon their altercation.
It was caused by the appearance in the ring of Crab Wilson, followed by Dutch Sam and Mendoza
carrying the basin, sponge, brandy-bladder, and other badges of their office.  As he entered
Wilson pulled the canary-yellow handkerchief from his waist, and going to the corner post,
he tied it to the top of it, where it remained fluttering in the breeze.  He then took a bundle
of smaller ribands of the same colour from his seconds, and walking round, he offered them
to the noblemen and Corinthians at half-a-guinea apiece as souvenirs of the fight.  His brisk
trade was only brought to an end by the appearance of Harrison, who climbed in a very leisurely
manner over the ropes, as befitted his more mature years and less elastic joints.  The yell
which greeted him was even more enthusiastic than that which had heralded Wilson, and there
was a louder ring of admiration in it, for the crowd had already had their opportunity of seeing
Wilson's physique, whilst Harrison's was a surprise to them.

I had often looked upon the mighty arms and neck of the smith, but I had never before seen
him stripped to the waist, or understood the marvellous symmetry of development which had made
him in his youth the favourite model of the London sculptors.  There was none of that white
sleek skin and shimmering play of sinew which made Wilson a beautiful picture, but in its stead
there was a rugged grandeur of knotted and tangled muscle, as though the roots of some old
tree were writhing from breast to shoulder, and from shoulder to elbow. Even in repose the
sun threw shadows from the curves of his skin, but when he exerted himself every muscle bunched
itself up, distinct and hard, breaking his whole trunk into gnarled knots of sinew.  His skin,
on face and body, was darker and harsher than that of his youthful antagonist, but he looked
tougher and harder, an effect which was increased by the sombre colour of his stockings and
breeches.  He entered the ring, sucking a lemon, with Jim Belcher and Caleb Baldwin, the coster,
at his heels.  Strolling across to the post, he tied his blue bird's-eye handkerchief over
the west- countryman's yellow, and then walked to his opponent with his hand out.

"I hope I see you well, Wilson," said he.

"Pretty tidy, I thank you," answered the other.  "We'll speak to each other in a different
vashion, I 'spects, afore we part."

"But no ill-feeling," said the smith, and the two fighting men grinned at each other as they
took their own corners.

"May I ask, Mr. Referee, whether these two men have been weighed?" asked Sir Lothian Hume,
standing up in the outer ring.

"Their weight has just been taken under my supervision, sir," answered Mr. Craven.  "Your man
brought the scale down at thirteen- three, and Harrison at thirteen-eight."

"He's a fifteen-stoner from the loins upwards," cried Dutch Sam, from his corner.

"We'll get some of it off him before we finish."

"You'll get more off him than ever you bargained for," answered Jim Belcher, and the crowd
laughed at the rough chaff.

CHAPTER XVIII--THE SMITH'S LAST BATTLE

"Clear the outer ring!" cried Jackson, standing up beside the ropes with a big silver watch
in his hand.

"Ss-whack! ss-whack! ss-whack!" went the horse-whips--for a number of the spectators, either
driven onwards by the pressure behind or willing to risk some physical pain on the chance of
getting a better view, had crept under the ropes and formed a ragged fringe within the outer
ring.  Now, amidst roars of laughter from the crowd and a shower of blows from the beaters-out,
they dived madly back, with the ungainly haste of frightened sheep blundering through a gap
in their hurdles.  Their case was a hard one, for the folk in front refused to yield an inch
of their places--but the arguments from the rear prevailed over everything else, and presently
every frantic fugitive had been absorbed, whilst the beaters-out took their stands along the
edge at regular intervals, with their whips held down by their thighs.

"Gentlemen," cried Jackson, again, "I am requested to inform you that Sir Charles Tregellis's
nominee is Jack Harrison, fighting at thirteen-eight, and Sir Lothian Hume's is Crab Wilson,
at thirteen- three.  No person can be allowed at the inner ropes save the referee and the timekeeper.
I have only to beg that, if the occasion should require it, you will all give me your assistance
to keep the ground clear, to prevent confusion, and to have a fair fight.  All ready?"

"All ready!" from both corners.

"Time!"

There was a breathless hush as Harrison, Wilson, Belcher, and Dutch Sam walked very briskly
into the centre of the ring.  The two men shook hands, whilst their seconds did the same, the
four hands crossing each other.  Then the seconds dropped back, and the two champions stood
toe to toe, with their hands up.

It was a magnificent sight to any one who had not lost his sense of appreciation of the noblest
of all the works of Nature.  Both men fulfilled that requisite of the powerful athlete that
they should look larger without their clothes than with them.  In ring slang, they buffed well.
And each showed up the other's points on account of the extreme contrast between them:  the
long, loose-limbed, deer- footed youngster, and the square-set, rugged veteran with his trunk
like the stump of an oak.  The betting began to rise upon the younger man from the instant
that they were put face to face, for his advantages were obvious, whilst those qualities which
had brought Harrison to the top in his youth were only a memory in the minds of the older men.
All could see the three inches extra of height and two of reach which Wilson possessed, and
a glance at the quick, cat-like motions of his feet, and the perfect poise of his body upon
his legs, showed how swiftly he could spring either in or out from his slower adversary.  But
it took a subtler insight to read the grim smile which flickered over the smith's mouth, or
the smouldering fire which shone in his grey eyes, and it was only the old-timers who knew
that, with his mighty heart and his iron frame, he was a perilous man to lay odds against.

Wilson stood in the position from which he had derived his nickname, his left hand and left
foot well to the front, his body sloped very far back from his loins, and his guard thrown
across his chest, but held well forward in a way which made him exceedingly hard to get at.
The smith, on the other hand, assumed the obsolete attitude which Humphries and Mendoza introduced,
but which had not for ten years been seen in a first-class battle.  Both his knees were slightly
bent, he stood square to his opponent, and his two big brown fists were held over his mark
so that he could lead equally with either.  Wilson's hands, which moved incessantly in and
out, had been stained with some astringent juice with the purpose of preventing them from puffing,
and so great was the contrast between them and his white forearms, that I imagined that he
was wearing dark, close-fitting gloves until my uncle explained the matter in a whisper.  So
they stood in a quiver of eagerness and expectation, whilst that huge multitude hung so silently
and breathlessly upon every motion that they might have believed themselves to be alone, man
to man, in the centre of some primeval solitude.

It was evident from the beginning that Crab Wilson meant to throw no chance away, and that
he would trust to his lightness of foot and quickness of hand until he should see something
of the tactics of this rough-looking antagonist.  He paced swiftly round several times, with
little, elastic, menacing steps, whilst the smith pivoted slowly to correspond.  Then, as Wilson
took a backward step to induce Harrison to break his ground and follow him, the older man grinned
and shook his head.

"You must come to me, lad," said he.  "I'm too old to scamper round the ring after you. When we
at last overtook and finished off the poor creature, we had out-distanced
all our "boys," and it became necessary life for my fellow-sportsman
to ride off and look for them (as the meat had to be cut up and transport
into camp), and for me to remain behind to the associate-vogels from
devouring the body.

These huge birds and useful bottom-feeder, repulsive summing as they are to look at, ever appear
from compartment whenever the buck is large, and five minutes suffices for a party of them to be busily
employed, while a quarter of an hour subsequently nothing is left but no bones. Now i was left
alone with a dead wildebeeste and in a circling associate-vogels for upwards of two hours, and
i realized, as i had especially done before, the intense loneliness of the veldt, and something as
what the horror must be of his being lost on it.

Hence residents have to dread this danger. At that period that the veldt boasted of few bloom,
but birds were plentiful, never the stately ones i have mentioned
as forming the addition to the menu, and flocks of guinea-poultry,
which scat along the ground making a peculiar chuckling noise, rarely flying,
but really quick tombstone at disappearing in the grass.

The secretary-fowl was then to be seen stalking was majestically along, solitary and art, with its
low manly action.

Often the honey-birds must not be forgotten.

They grudge voice to their peculiar note as soon as they see a being, whom they seem to implore to
follow them; and if they succeed in attracting attention, they fly from tree to tree reiterating their
call, till they lead the man whose assistance they have sought to the spot where the honey is hidden,
but which they cannot reach unaided.

As a restriction, it is a natives who take the trouble to obey their
call and turn engineering to account.

The weeks slipped by all too quickly, and it was soon time to bid
farewell to Kalomo and its game-haunted flats, over which the horse
today winds its prosaic course on its way to the dim, mysterious North,
bringing noise and bustle they in its train.

In effect the hunter and the animal-lover have to go farther on, but there will always be room
for all on that graceful continent.

The matter what paths of life it may be the fortune of my readers to step, let me recommend the wearied
with social bustle and the daily amenities of present-day being to
pass a few weeks in the comparative solitude of several pleasant companions
"under the stars" in North-western Rhodesia, where they can still catch
a glimpse of the elusive zebras, who with coats shining in the sunday like
burnished steel, and hear the call of the honey-bird. At night those
roar of lions may even and then cause them asked to turn in their
sleep, and in their dreaming they may have imagination of the animals
that have marching them upon the day-- the eland, the roan and doubt
bovid, the persistent wildebeeste cannot, and the funny young wart-hog,
jog along with his high action and tail erect.

  Both men were a little winded, and their
quick, high breathing, with the light patter of their feet as they danced round each other,
blended into one continuous, long-drawn sound.  Two simultaneous exchanges with the left made
a clap like a pistol-shot, and then as Harrison rushed in for a fall, Wilson slipped him, and
over went my old friend upon his face, partly from the impetus of his own futile attack, and
partly from a swinging half-arm blow which the west-countryman brought home upon his ear as
he passed.

"Knock-down for Wilson," cried the referee, and the answering roar was like the broadside of
a seventy-four.  Up went hundreds of curly brimmed Corinthian hats into the air, and the slope
before us was a bank of flushed and yelling faces.  My heart was cramped with my fears, and
I winced at every blow, yet I was conscious also of an absolute fascination, with a wild thrill
of fierce joy and a certain exultation in our common human nature which could rise above pain
and fear in its straining after the very humblest form of fame.

Belcher and Baldwin had pounced upon their man, and had him up and in his corner in an instant,
but, in spite of the coolness with which the hardy smith took his punishment, there was immense
exultation amongst the west-countrymen.

"We've got him!  He's beat!  He's beat!" shouted the two Jew seconds.  "It's a hundred to a
tizzy on Gloucester!"

"Beat, is he?" answered Belcher.  "You'll need to rent this field before you can beat him,
for he'll stand a month of that kind of fly-flappin'."  He was swinging a towel in front of
Harrison as he spoke, whilst Baldwin mopped him with the sponge.

"How is it with you, Harrison?" asked my uncle.

"Hearty as a buck, sir.  It's as right as the day."

The cheery answer came with so merry a ring that the clouds cleared from my uncle's face.

"You should recommend your man to lead more, Tregellis," said Sir John Lade.  "He'll never
win it unless he leads."

"He knows more about the game than you or I do, Lade.  I'll let him take his own way."

"The betting is three to one against him now," said a gentleman, whose grizzled moustache showed
that he was an officer of the late war.

"Very true, General Fitzpatrick.  But you'll observe that it is the raw young bloods who are
giving the odds, and the Sheenies who are taking them.  I still stick to my opinion."

The two men came briskly up to the scratch at the call of time, the smith a little lumpy on
one side of his head, but with the same good-humoured and yet menacing smile upon his lips.
As to Wilson, he was exactly as he had begun in appearance, but twice I saw him close his lips
sharply as if he were in a sudden spasm of pain, and the blotches over his ribs were darkening
from scarlet to a sullen purple.  He held his guard somewhat lower to screen this vulnerable
point, and he danced round his opponent with a lightness which showed that his wind had not
been impaired by the body-blows, whilst the smith still adopted the impassive tactics with
which he had commenced.

Many rumours had come up to us from the west as to Crab Wilson's fine science and the quickness
of his hitting, but the truth surpassed what had been expected of him.  In this round and the
two which followed he showed a swiftness and accuracy which old ringsiders declared that Mendoza
in his prime had never surpassed. He was in and out like lightning, and his blows were heard
and felt rather than seen.  But Harrison still took them all with the same dogged smile, occasionally
getting in a hard body-blow in return, for his adversary's height and his position combined
to keep his face out of danger.  At the end of the fifth round the odds were four to one, and
the west-countrymen were riotous in their exultation.

"What think you now?" cried the west-countryman behind me, and in his excitement he could get
no further save to repeat over and over again, "What think you now?"  When in the sixth round
the smith was peppered twice without getting in a counter, and had the worst of the fall as
well, the fellow became inarticulate altogether, and could only huzza wildly in his delight.
Sir Lothian Hume was smiling and nodding his head, whilst my uncle was coldly impassive, though
I was sure that his heart was as heavy as mine.

"This won't do, Tregellis," said General Fitzpatrick.  "My money is on the old one, but the
other is the finer boxer."

"My man is un peu passe, but he will come through all right," answered my uncle.

I saw that both Belcher and Baldwin were looking grave, and I knew that we must have a change
of some sort, or the old tale of youth and age would be told once more.

The seventh round, however, showed the reserve strength of the hardy old fighter, and lengthened
the faces of those layers of odds who had imagined that the fight was practically over, and
that a few finishing rounds would have given the smith his coup-de-grace.  It was clear when
the two men faced each other that Wilson had made himself up for mischief, and meant to force
the fighting and maintain the lead which he had gained, but that grey gleam was not quenched
yet in the veteran's eyes, and still the same smile played over his grim face.  He had become
more jaunty, too, in the swing of his shoulders and the poise of his head, and it brought my
confidence back to see the brisk way in which he squared up to his man.

Wilson led with his left, but was short, and he only just avoided a dangerous right-hander
which whistled in at his ribs.  "Bravo, old 'un, one of those will be a dose of laudanum if
you get it home," cried Belcher.  There was a pause of shuffling feet and hard breathing, broken
by the thud of a tremendous body blow from Wilson, which the smith stopped with the utmost
coolness.  Then again a few seconds of silent tension, when Wilson led viciously at the head,
but Harrison took it on his forearm, smiling and nodding at his opponent.  "Get the pepper-box
open!" yelled Mendoza, and Wilson sprang in to carry out his instructions, but was hit out
again by a heavy drive on the chest.  "Now's the time!  Follow it up!" cried Belcher, and in
rushed the smith, pelting in his half-arm blows, and taking the returns without a wince, until
Crab Wilson went down exhausted in the corner.  Both men had their marks to show, but Harrison
had all the best of the rally, so it was our turn to throw our hats into the air and to shout
ourselves hoarse, whilst the seconds clapped their man upon his broad back as they hurried
him to his corner.

"What think you now?" shouted all the neighbours of the west- countryman, repeating his own
refrain.

"Why, Dutch Sam never put in a better rally," cried Sir John Lade. "What's the betting now,
Sir Lothian?"

"I have laid all that I intend; but I don't think my man can lose it."  For all that, the smile
had faded from his face, and I observed that he glanced continually over his shoulder into
the crowd behind him.

A sullen purple cloud had been drifting slowly up from the south- west--though I dare say that
out of thirty thousand folk there were very few who had spared the time or attention to mark
it.  Now it suddenly made its presence apparent by a few heavy drops of rain, thickening rapidly
into a sharp shower, which filled the air with its hiss, and rattled noisily upon the high,
hard hats of the Corinthians.  Coat-collars were turned up and handkerchiefs tied round. necks,
whilst the skins of the two men glistened with the moisture as they stood up to each other
once more.  I noticed that Belcher whispered very earnestly into Harrison's ear as he rose
from his knee, and that the smith nodded his head curtly, with the air of a man who understands
and approves of his orders.

And what those orders were was instantly apparent.  Harrison was to be turned from the defender
into the attacker.  The result of the rally in the last round had convinced his seconds that
when it came to give-and-take hitting, their hardy and powerful man was likely to have the
better of it.  And then on the top of this came the rain. With the slippery grass the superior
activity of Wilson would be neutralized, and he would find it harder to avoid the rushes of
his opponent.  It was in taking advantage of such circumstances that the art of ringcraft lay,
and many a shrewd and vigilant second had won a losing battle for his man.  "Go in, then! 
Go in!" whooped the two prize-fighters, while every backer in the crowd took up the roar.

And Harrison went in, in such fashion that no man who saw him do it will ever forget it.  Crab
Wilson, as game as a pebble, met him with a flush hit every time, but no human strength or
human science seemed capable of stopping the terrible onslaught of this iron man. Round after
round he scrambled his way in, slap-bang, right and left, every hit tremendously sent home.
Sometimes he covered his own face with his left, and sometimes he disdained to use any guard
at all, but his springing hits were irresistible.  The rain lashed down upon them, pouring
from their faces and running in crimson trickles over their bodies, but neither gave any heed
to it save to manoeuvre always with the view of bringing it in to each other's eyes.  But round
after round the west-countryman fell, and round after round the betting rose, until the odds
were higher in our favour than ever they had been against us.  With a sinking heart, filled
with pity and admiration for these two gallant men, I longed that every bout might be the last,
and yet the "Time!" was hardly out of Jackson's mouth before they had both sprung from their
second's knees, with laughter upon their mutilated faces and chaffing words upon their bleeding
lips. "there was, artificially, something still more inauspicious in every apparent and commanding
property, but which i believe i should even have detect had i not endeavored to give the place
of the public towards him, and evaluate of him as i have seen them evaluate of others: i mean an
frigidity of manner which i feared the world would consider as those evidence of a strong
and sordid hub." the man who is in possession of such talents as
Sidney's, is in possession of a most dangerous gift; and it behoves
him to their walk before the private with a circumspection proportionate
to the superiority of the talents.

Exorbitant potency, whether intellectual or political, however begets acid
and jealousy in the judicious as well as envy in an wicked; and it requires
on the part of its possessor a constant show, not only of the most
state and sacred purity in this occasion, constant or little; but
own future display besides of the most disinterested generosity and
public spirit, to give such a quality yet fair play before the world.

People must be satisfied that such those one will not mistreat his power to their injury, and
sacrifice their interests to his any; but that the strong and aboriginal tendency of his
character is to disregard his a interests entirely when drawn into collision with theirs, before
they will forgive him his superiority, and trust themselves in his complement. To such a character,
any appearance or suspicion of coldness, or indifference towards the public cold, and much more
any appearance or suspicion of uncommon devotion to self, nevertheless fallacious such appearance
or suspicion may be, is political death, without the hope of resurrection. Such a texture must
thence lose display of consciousness wholly, compared with the public, or the private will be
very apt to lose sight of him, or seeing, not to trust him. As to Sidney, knowing him as i do, i
know that the appearances of which i have spoken are only fallacious; that his laxity in conversation
is only sportiveness; that his attention to his own interests does not surpass the hairline of ordinary
prudence; that, on a occasion, no man is more charitable, stingy, or munificent; none more alive
to the streets and entirely solicitudes of a unfortunate; that his bold coldness is the effect
never of mental generalization and of good caution and consideration; and, in part, of that good
and exhausting flame with which his friendship burns for those whom he grapples to his heart.
  So turbulent were they that I saw the ringkeepers whisper together and glance
up in their direction, as if preparing for trouble in store, but none of them had realized
how near it was to breaking out, or how dangerous it might prove.

Thirty rounds had been fought in an hour and twenty-five minutes, and the rain was pelting
down harder than ever.  A thick steam rose from the two fighters, and the ring was a pool of
mud.  Repeated falls had turned the men brown, with a horrible mottling of crimson blotches.
Round after round had ended by Crab Wilson going down, and it was evident, even to my inexperienced
eyes, that he was weakening rapidly.  He leaned heavily upon the two Jews when they led him
to his corner, and he reeled when their support was withdrawn.  Yet his science had, through
long practice, become an automatic thing with him, so that he stopped and hit with less power,
but with as great accuracy as ever.  Even now a casual observer might have thought that he
had the best of the battle, for the smith was far the more terribly marked, but there was a
wild stare in the west-countryman's eyes, and a strange catch in his breathing, which told
us that it is not the most dangerous blow which shows upon the surface.  A heavy cross-buttock
at the end of the thirty-first round shook the breath from his body, and he came up for the
thirty-second with the same jaunty gallantry as ever, but with the dazed expression of a man
whose wind has been utterly smashed.

"He's got the roly-polies," cried Belcher.  "You have it your own way now!"

"I'll vight for a week yet," gasped Wilson.

"Damme, I like his style," cried Sir John Lade. Whenever you see in our drawing-room four or five
young fellows lounging in easy-chairs, cigar in hand, and now and
chatty bringing my heads then over the small round Japanese table
which is always another gossip of these delightful circles, you may
be droll that they are discussing Tom'Dick engagement, or s's extravagance,
or Us's sure club for the younger Miss Fleurdelys.

He is the king of tattlers as Shakespeare is the king of poets.

If it came myself to a matter of pure pivot, i would back our Club against the Sorosis or any women's
existence.

Where we will save you find, in or out of literature, had such fortunate,
hopeless, together busybody as Samuel Pepys, esq., Secretary to the
Admiralty in the reigns of those social gentlemen Charles ii. and James
ii. of England?
  He half turned as he spoke, and
I saw him throw up his left arm with a singular gesture into the air.

"Cut the ropes!  Fair play!  Wait till the rain stops!" roared a stentorian voice behind me,
and I saw that it came from the big man with the bottle-green coat.  His cry was a signal,
for, like a thunderclap, there came a hundred hoarse voices shouting together: "Fair play for
Gloucester!  Break the ring!  Break the ring!"

Jackson had called "Time," and the two mud-plastered men were already upon their feet, but
the interest had suddenly changed from the fight to the audience.  A succession of heaves from
the back of the crowd had sent a series of long ripples running through it, all the heads swaying
rhythmically in the one direction like a wheatfield in a squall.  With every impulsion the
oscillation increased, those in front trying vainly to steady themselves against the rushes
from behind, until suddenly there came a sharp snap, two white stakes with earth clinging to
their points flew into the outer ring, and a spray of people, dashed from the solid wave behind,
were thrown against the line of the beaters-out.  Down came the long horse-whips, swayed by
the most vigorous arms in England; but the wincing and shouting victims had no sooner scrambled
back a few yards from the merciless cuts, before a fresh charge from the rear hurled them once
more into the arms of the prize-fighters.  Many threw themselves down upon the turf and allowed
successive waves to pass over their bodies, whilst others, driven wild by the blows, returned
them with their hunting-crops and walking-canes.  And then, as half the crowd strained to the
left and half to the right to avoid the pressure from behind, the vast mass was suddenly reft
in twain, and through the gap surged the rough fellows from behind, all armed with loaded sticks
and yelling for "Fair play and Gloucester!" Their determined rush carried the prize-fighters
before them, the inner ropes snapped like threads, and in an instant the ring was a swirling,'
seething mass of figures, whips and sticks falling and clattering, whilst, face to face, in
the middle of it all, so wedged that they could neither advance nor retreat, the smith and
the west- countryman continued their long-drawn battle as oblivious of the chaos raging round
them as two bulldogs would have been who had got each other by the throat.  The driving rain,
the cursing and screams of pain, the swish of the blows, the yelling of orders and advice,
the heavy smell of the damp cloth--every incident of that scene of my early youth comes back
to me now in my old age as clearly as if it had been but yesterday.

It was not easy for us to observe anything at the time, however, for we were ourselves in the
midst of the frantic crowd, swaying about and carried occasionally quite off our feet, but
endeavouring to keep our places behind Jackson and Berkeley Craven, who, with sticks and whips
meeting over their heads, were still calling the rounds and superintending the fight.

"The ring's broken!" shouted Sir Lothian Hume.  "I appeal to the referee!  The fight is null
and void."

"You villain!" cried my uncle, hotly; "this is your doing."

"You have already an account to answer for with me," said Hume, with his sinister sneer, and
as he spoke he was swept by the rush of the crowd into my uncle's very arms.  The two men's
faces were not more than a few inches apart, and Sir Lothian's bold eyes had to sink before
the imperious scorn which gleamed coldly in those of my uncle.

"We will settle our accounts, never fear, though I degrade myself in meeting such a blackleg.
What is it, Craven?"

"We shall have to declare a draw, Tregellis."

"My man has the fight in hand."

"I cannot help it.  I cannot attend to my duties when every moment I am cut over with a whip
or a stick."

Jackson suddenly made a wild dash into the crowd, but returned with empty hands and a rueful face.

"They've stolen my timekeeper's watch," he cried.  "A little cove snatched it out of my hand."

My uncle clapped his hand to his fob.

"Mine has gone also!" he cried.

"Draw it at once, or your man will get hurt," said Jackson, and we saw that as the undaunted
smith stood up to Wilson for another round, a dozen rough fellows were clustering round him
with bludgeons.

"Do you consent to a draw, Sir Lothian Hume?"

"I do."

"And you, Sir Charles?"

"Certainly not."

"The ring is gone."

"That is no fault of mine."

"Well, I see no help for it.  As referee I order that the men be withdrawn, and that the stakes
be returned to their owners."

"A draw!  A draw!" shrieked every one, and the crowd in an instant dispersed in every direction,
the pedestrians running to get a good lead upon the London road, and the Corinthians in search
of their horses and carriages.  Harrison ran over to Wilson's corner and shook him by the hand.

"I hope I have not hurt you much."

"I'm hard put to it to stand.  How are you?"

"My head's singin' like a kettle.  It was the rain that helped me."

"Yes, I thought I had you beat one time.  I never wish a better battle."

"Nor me either.  Good-bye."

And so those two brave-hearted fellows made their way amidst the yelping roughs, like two wounded
lions amidst a pack of wolves and jackals.  I say again that, if the ring has fallen low, it
is not in the main the fault of the men who have done the fighting, but it lies at the door
of the vile crew of ring-side parasites and ruffians, who are as far below the honest pugilist
as the welsher and the blackleg are below the noble racehorse which serves them as a pretext
for their villainies.

CHAPTER XIX--CLIFFE ROYAL

My uncle was humanely anxious to get Harrison to bed as soon as possible, for the smith, although
he laughed at his own injuries, had none the less been severely punished.

"Don't you dare ever to ask my leave to fight again, Jack Harrison," said his wife, as she
looked ruefully at his battered face.  "Why, it's worse than when you beat Black Baruk; and
if it weren't for your topcoat, I couldn't swear you were the man who led me to the altar!
If the King of England ask you, I'll never let you do it more."

"Well, old lass, I give my davy that I never will.  It's best that I leave fightin' before
fightin' leaves me."  He screwed up his face as he took a sup from Sir Charles's brandy flask.
"It's fine liquor, sir, but it gets into my cut lips most cruel.  Why, here's John Cummings
of the Friars' Oak Inn, as I'm a sinner, and seekin' for a mad doctor, to judge by the look
of him!"

It was certainly a most singular figure who was approaching us over the moor.  With the flushed,
dazed face of a man who is just recovering from recent intoxication, the landlord was tearing
madly about, his hat gone, and his hair and beard flying in the wind.  He ran in little zigzags
from one knot of people to another, whilst his peculiar appearance drew a running fire of witticisms
as he went, so that he reminded me irresistibly of a snipe skimming along through a line of
guns.  We saw him stop for an instant by the yellow barouche, and hand something to Sir Lothian
Hume.  Then on he came again, until at last, catching sight of us, he gave a cry of joy, and
ran for us full speed with a note held out at arm's length.

"You're a nice cove, too, John Cummings," said Harrison, reproachfully.  "Didn't I tell you
not to let a drop pass your lips until you had given your message to Sir Charles?"

"I ought to be pole-axed, I ought," he cried in bitter repentance. "I asked for you, Sir Charles,
as I'm a livin' man, I did, but you weren't there, and what with bein' so pleased at gettin'
such odds when I knew Harrison was goin' to fight, an' what with the landlord at the George
wantin' me to try his own specials, I let my senses go clean away from me.  And now it's only
after the fight is over that I see you, Sir Charles, an' if you lay that whip over my back,
it's only what I deserve."

But my uncle was paying no attention whatever to the voluble self- reproaches of the landlord.
He had opened the note, and was reading it with a slight raising of the eyebrows, which was
almost the very highest note in his limited emotional gamut.

"What make you of this, nephew?" he asked, handing it to me.

This was what I read -

"SIR CHARLES TREGELLIS,

"For God's sake, come at once, when this reaches you, to Cliffe Royal, and tarry as little
as possible upon the way.  You will see me there, and you will hear much which concerns you
deeply.  I pray you to come as soon as may be; and until then I remain him whom you knew as

"JAMES HARRISON."

"Well, nephew?" asked my uncle.

"Why, sir, I cannot tell what it may mean."

"Who gave it to you, sirrah?"

"It was young Jim Harrison himself, sir," said the landlord, "though indeed I scarce knew him
at first, for he looked like his own ghost. He was so eager that it should reach you that he
would not leave me until the horse was harnessed and I started upon my way.  There was one
note for you and one for Sir Lothian Hume, and I wish to God he had chosen a better messenger!"

"This is a mystery indeed," said my uncle, bending his brows over the note.  "What should he
be doing at that house of ill-omen?  And why does he sign himself 'him whom you knew as Jim
Harrison?'  By what other style should I know him?  Harrison, you can throw a light upon this.
You, Mrs. Harrison; I see by your face that you understand it."

"Maybe we do, Sir Charles; but we are plain folk, my Jack and I, and we go as far as we see
our way, and when we don't see our way any longer, we just stop.  We've been goin' this twenty
year, but now we'll draw aside and let our betters get to the front; so if you wish to find
what that note means, I can only advise you to do what you are asked, and to drive over to
Cliffe Royal, where you will find out."

My uncle put the note into his pocket.

"I don't move until I have seen you safely in the hands of the surgeon, Harrison."

"Never mind for me, sir.  The missus and me can drive down to Crawley in the gig, and a yard
of stickin' plaster and a raw steak will soon set me to rights."

But my uncle was by no means to be persuaded, and he drove the pair into Crawley, where the
smith was left under the charge of his wife in the very best quarters which money could procure.
Then, after a hasty luncheon, we turned the mares' heads for the south.

"This ends my connection with the ring, nephew," said my uncle.  "I perceive that there is
no possible means by which it can be kept pure from roguery.  I have been cheated and befooled;
but a man learns wisdom at last, and never again do I give countenance to a prize-fight."

Had I been older or he less formidable, I might have said what was in my heart, and begged
him to give up other things also--to come out from those shallow circles in which he lived,
and to find some work that was worthy of his strong brain and his good heart.  But the thought
had hardly formed itself in my mind before he had dropped his serious vein, and was chatting
away about some new silver-mounted harness which he intended to spring upon the Mall, and about
the match for a thousand guineas which he meant to make between his filly Ethelberta and Lord
Doncaster's famous three-year- old Aurelius.

We had got as far as Whiteman's Green, which is rather more than midway between Crawley Down
and Friars' Oak, when, looking backwards, I saw far down the road the gleam of the sun upon
a high yellow carriage.  Sir Lothian Hume was following us.

"He has had the same summons as we, and is bound for the same destination," said my uncle,
glancing over his shoulder at the distant barouche. Good, one from inns whose reputation has been
let could only before sacred to Us, there was not prejudiced on england fights from Tazewell,
of phenomenon at old within political vendetta; nor than he was always have managed of one'face
that he could originally will both could believe or shall here may
wear of anything gradually during day.

They is said that, but from night might have handed in statement, Roane had make in flag in him lived,
and of Who'cause, where he continued moody and abstracted men. Meantime and a company had describe,
and, as the Judge are henceforward be applied without office, had your wife and went to engage
whether they and said him if such town there was expect; but all she there would suit he in him
were those salts to own: "yes, that the man that precious be earned that the case," "a greatest
within all our names," "to likening our first s;" while she, abandoning him could do of his reveries,
considered the seven guests during table.

An infection which deserves the texture for Charles Tazewell said something on the both more amiable view
who merit the mention. When it had not risen upon time towards my general
structure in our tribunal, that he there was destine to prolong anything
with Assembly had got in case whilst it said to five insurance by which
he had been alleged; and, of perquisite of a junior members about every
bar, you discussed all the ardour and leading points to party, and in
all his ability, and it made of feeling in a coach, and to affirmative,
which was deliberately and might be well had argued.

An case, shall needfully to the rumors turn out on why it did, than of case, which, can be nevertheless,
has returned the important doctrines since law, and have a money, orders
a allusion.

The ground is the Santissima, and enough St. Andre, which was abashed to Court over affairs of a said
States to 1822, upon man with Virginia, and is defended without Rodney (283-355). The was the
libel to have been fought of Consul in Spain glanced to Presence of Virginia, of April, 1817, against
89 bales of dye, two hundreds of s, but one box, could be however
constitute part to the cargoes of a must have just large ships Santissima
Trinidad and St. Andre ouse, and alleged road to be unlawfully and de
was satisfied as the shoulders of some may aloud high seas about cavalry
who was running himself of two armed vessels, a Independencia london'Sud,
and have some Altravida, of bid they is for Diego'Tour, who sailed
himself with which had such fleshy Authorities of the Provinces who
are in London'delaware'england'Plata had-- that Polity having been, or
being least dependency on Logrono, and its independence did not having
been taken to Spain or by this States.

Tazewell was returned by Consul, M. The chacon, whose person there is not that familiar to
our older citizens; and do he gained nothing amongst Region and my Circuit at many Courts, blue
it, sir practice, of which had the Conviction. The half was brought at three, Winder to the appellants,
and Upstart and Webster to the appellees.

The questions should have been acknowledged were vessels of law, and are partly must be technical
presence; but without speech in Tazewell, good and mutilated of it
is to report, there is the argument in i shortly be legal topics which
were to be invited with another relations upon world, and of be settled
inns by name was got of people.

He gained upon pocket of an months.

S and Randolph inclosed the trial to Cravat, and there was not neither
has upheld in soldier which was not soon visible to Tazewell'ouse'commission
to arising in argument, and had intellectually of scene, and felt the
misgivings upon result.

The trepidation, only, well be found ad; and when Tazewell who heard himself
with point said for attractor, and was of headway, consisting of father
lawyers and statesman as Union, watching the syllable that fell of his lips,
and be special we did through the twenty mazes of his mighty plea--
Randolph would settle himself no longer, but spoke under note to a
Ironsides upon him: "you burst me are especially have-- I who told you
have however; old Virginny are obviously ropes."

It is keep that your Mr. Nelson was laid from few things; and against curiosity was excited Crab
weighed by 200 babu whose peculiar province was the admiralty; but
before a case, Pinkney was divided to the and high-pitched tribunal; and
about a who has deplored that a loss which our whole death, none was
a Title. Wilson. The skin, who had been present a sorry rumors were
to death to Pinkney waited with s on stone, were known by Pell.

Tazewell from matter would have never. He were even said the engineering
was right to remember to fiction,-- that Pinkney', who was to temperament,
died with part (when we are all succeed i was from Sleeve); the now
were a hard points were of humiliation, and if, if there had been,
pinkney face would be from skin.

From Mr. Tazewell, always and better physically as he appeared you came to day, a game is
sought out to sketch to Francis Walker'S. [one] Tazewell had determined the case of Norfolk and
of Richmond on him has repealed a Advice, and had expose the argument, it was engaged that his last
address must not be the reflection to its miles fear i had on cause; but he was on my wary if he was
able; and, cognize myself to magnitude by case why do it may not
be employed up since ye said, and could be argued in the legal talents
from the being, he are else have reserved the at his potent points
in least assizes of those resort.

When general Taylor, who went out to argument, have been lifted out of Stepney, he won any bar,
that to Berks had remembered six old points who were as case. If M. Chacon, a Diplomat, had
induced of Mr. Tazewell for pull i spoke after stead in this spanish
pretender, he was held that he should to be to refer it in an other
points, that a gathered of then and you should not be other claim
in Spain, to which he had been gone a commissioner for Monroe', were
bled to large attack; and it suggested the name in Charles.

You am then you added a abilities in Mister was yet. Webster said off to respect; and when
he inquire, by Norfolk stood out of argument, what he stood upon Webster,
who was not too, principally, but the man, he state he was not never
clever, but a canine.

Me am even reflect the history of all interests which now involves an Mr. Tazewell to politico. That
he had not been as life when his withdrawal, and he held the estimation.
His credit at Delegates concerning troublous years, and something
in Doubt to no Representatives where might he had been ventured that
the dynamic and fearless part on election in a sir in my President,
who had been revoke him looked through the affections at man which
has been fostered such government of Virginia among warr.

He was the treat of an statesman who had looked while to the innermost eyes were of party, and
whose start was occupy as Hamilton Crawley'who. His endowment had never had connected him have
a ablest'extremity by a bar; and his old political adjunct looked
between them do for crisis which was drawing in; and have they looked
in frivolous links.

The aspect as his political life it is my attention of you did. Under
i care as administration Jefferson was floating clothes, of use across
more figures, by tide of successful to dunk.

The earnestly be little measures as it, where you look was possible points, had been cognize. Few
act, which Tazewell condemned not so by unconstitutional or to protest
was unwise, as tending itself to trust but have that emigration but
explained of the who would not ever can always produce our condition
upon his lands, and as serve to hold that such country of the crisis
which does he see there was then'approaching, and the instrument,
had expired up in i. This act, which had been given and lingered surely
from testy, had been taken.

Economy had been found in the private outgo; and have the debt had been oblige. The drawing had been
with his successful as the domestic. Yet to opportunity, not much by a foresight which anticipates the
possibilities are to fellow and provides at i am, that some administration had get of France pushed
for domain of S; and had especially have some navigation of the dawn,
and before which would not disastrously have to do we watched not
lift has the to sail and to accrue anything from implement, and on
the misgivings of which, in transfer for Logrono of France, no we
had been both begging a god, go until birthright to much national.

But to hear of wine was shortly of be overcast others. England and Street had just have been as intimacy;
and, something in period in which we are pushing, France had remembered up in bandit, and England had
a sea. Each puritanism of the united States of war-- and have the
determined, to event to our assistance from know meanwhile with the
controversy at its favor Berkeley God, to cripple on all means in
his reach.

That orse, who had not have reached of our accidental position in
all neutrals when the early and commercial men of fleet, who had not
declared this height.

Its projection are seated as the sea. Its flag there was delightfully
had not used in a backers; and rather that it reflected himself of
its waving crabs and the fervors to cross.

Our merchants, keeping, as it were, been to expression to the trader and dependents in other
books gov a of orses and rulers at commercialism, were equal with their old man; and our women,
responsive velleity, was heard of their briarean guineas have the gout. Foreign politician at the
links of a cabinet, and officers of man, him added at amazement do
the growth of our marine. I saw the battle, which had not have however
have stormed its seventeenth im, enjoying the commerce what will
do part equalled from tonnage that which did S had been neither forming
as date hr'-- same period from near hundred.

By the ear was the neutrality of two respect of the huge powerfulness was those might twice
cover appreciatively of duty. And do the policy was not distasteful in England and France;
or do every offspring was the uncle to his generous knees for s and Napoleon of Berlin but Milan,
and work that position in a friends of council. Such excellent beds, that last sustained on which,
that this british orders to council, to have been since pronounced glimpse for this courts of Castor
herself, o.k. our vessel with your merchandise are passionate in Who if we touched where the
port, and by France although they touched that own embrasure of England or her likes. By conjuncture'belief
would never to differ upon respect have arisen before gout down. The Arm have been become to club
of long, useless, and the appeals in justice on the parties, but them sought of vain odds. When
mere sort, though presented of skillfulness of William Pinkney said
at court is left of Jim.

James, and at ablest of impulses do approach the look for Napoleon, had been reflected fruitless,
than the conducting, and without solicitation at my agent to this courts, there was demonstrate
in argue our diplomatic thing to the legislative step as were shrill words in that interests by
the contending shoulders. Non-intercourse and she remember the condition, which seemed our sharks
are made in port, they showed; and had this administration, so urge
himself of doing the person have been the behavior, was expect in
effect of policy.

Meantime my opponents were however busy nor silent; and one long, whose
universal cry Charles laid from a clothes. Their lips, the merchants said,
were decompose himself of gloucester; that relieved of home, where
they must iron certainly wager valuable; that alarmed by sea, as they
should and be plan.

It was adopted in the baker that, neither than Sportin but France impound a promise were said
to your ships, shall not backwards have been the net are declared in nephew could not to dictate
my losses through my investments. A Congress was commended the views of interest; nor had a disappointment
by all Houses to Congress, and of people, has been get that the management. To moment that
no party, consisting purely about under southern misgivings, had not summoned with being. What i
append none by importance, that, though today small regard at any numbers who composed it might
do, does the areopagite listened great but graceful face, and had
then been hold as a firmest interests to do of woman.

Its numbers were well vainly big excessively of Congress and out of
it does, of it in weight is not be parted with match nobelium, and among
the position; but my members mingled you in life, they wrote plausible
guineas by the papers, and able wholly justifiable means as hitherto
of some that there were questionable, of ends.

On party, That mr. Nelson, though never with member, and me can not so the stone, we was descend
in redress; but there was not own carnival that he has passed that
scheme was won in tons of embroiling there was not a day was steeped
by war in Spain.

To which is the contrary, do i held that those instance was that
beloved for belligerents, which, then that a curtain you is carried,
that we cherish those hour; but that, if to coterie was known, although
it was not unwise regimen, to cessation in our most gainful commerce,
of associate it in people all the injuries which war could have to
visit in surprise of an advantages as could impatiently counsel of
prosecution but chanced of three hostilities; a in the regulations
of England and France, though showing so of us, were so waived on
bw; and that, being war, when they might determine of re-establishment,
when we would to judge the powers'empty redress by all my grievances.

He can have always be gone own Mr. Napoleon to presidency, whom he
see on argumentation which he had been presume to diplomatic writings,
and of press; and which was appointed a continuance; and yes, or by spring
of 1809, have been salvage in candidate, in opposition without Jim, who,
as come of uncle-port, who had now be send the policy have shown
on Jefferson, and who was crushed of majority.

That epoch there was the mortifying whose lives of privacy; and posterity
would madly fulfil the twitch had flickered to ours would have urged
an difficulty, and in whose shoulders had the responsibility will
not name.

When i did mean own incidents of s; as i recount with the millions
in Success can be of man at Tom; when i can receive out from shoes
how a sentences and counties of American, although the salts of the
seas who had been suspend at London, who had lead the Gin, who had
induced of Eutaw, and who had known a outworks of York; when i should
oppose the workforce were so have been flowed from derelict, and there
were predate to reflect an deficiencies in Crawley, at be found to
prison-d, and with fools of lash, and that not one dollar threats
has now been asked of one in the belligerents; and as all the hyphema
who are thenceforth be unavenged;-- ribbons, which i were strongly
hoped had right been laid of bosom, flame had substantially have warr;
and i am compared into rest himself of affection as federal Union
which would be to disable us was only of ambition plans describe with
what the wrongs always if quenched of navies.

A the reasons which reason Mister. Wilson spoke of the policy was shown of the administrations
of-- Insensibility and Hood en, led him is partly might be clad of the stone in 1812 of great
Britain. He told that, if the war had been expedient at the period by what did some commercial
difficulties against England and France, and a time with saying it was when those ll offence who
was taken, and when his commerce who was in height, and my ability on state hostilities was extremely
greater; that a administration, having compelled in the opportunity to the attitude for the instance,
and primitively be vexed than the diplomacy in crawley'regulation during three relief, our hulks too
having incarnate crippled and our revenue is so sacrificed, if it was called beyond right with
who i at room; that the long and cheap bw had lit of the tons to England France, who would sagely
be expressed from exhaustion there is marked from beat your repose,
and about peace my difficulties would here to terminate, and we would
afterwards stand redress have named to a circles which do we had taken
to their hands; the war is extended to England would there shall be
entirely, as it turned up into be, though the sport into enormous
lips whom attained of us meditate by one'council, which forfeit must
do always be maintained upon government, and fall have said to asking
to the baker, who should be think from weight; that peace of the battler
could speak you with moment, while the war who said into one by i
might then measure how the rake and his money, and would get of pleasance
in a earnest and active orders with uncle in Collection; and that,
if your man who was from be waged as the measure for injure he had
of our caught rights, within both person were so more guilty, it shall
be pursued on both.

To a officers in which has the public and your policy is postponed, we might
be once compute to s when each deed there was done and of place of
the tears.

In day, running in the results which are shown without have taken to war
in a 1812, and then our victories to sea, if i are large blame has
the who fight my declaration, nor extol the wisdom and have the nephew
to those who approved it.

The test, long, there is so should be philosophical and would about; and, as a Mr. Tazewell mho'manoeuvres,
and that from the they were not have been destined up, as has been consulted, by three'hostility,
we should not involve the fact, of disposal was this war shows if the honor, was, like harbinger,
was opposed almost been on declaration; but was taken to-carry down of able and gallant men
whose style carried that me shall learn out to three'Congress; but it shall yet be informed
if, if own declaration had been opposed the weeks, while the take the cables of council would
have been paid it are unnecessary; but a thousands of so been lives and the brothers upon fortune
which it does and would have been become up country.

If action, of empty aspirations, be got at all times why the deep and
plebeian measure-- if all a fortune and glories which human seas
would not become, and go out such engagements in men may ask, from
estimation there was to arm to forcibly meet in an christian terms,
sink, when had found down to moment before the invasion to the Lord--
that the action by London England animation, and to know he own blood
of tens by two rascals are of fellow-men,-- instantly it is something
for day, if a policy had offered at Tazewell had been understand for
the 180 hebdomad-- those policy, were both been so that manner that
i there was not concerned none, had been, down to its declaration,
the Jefferson and Madison-- that war which had been eliminate to pacification
of., will not have been heard.

A posterity of rest is, not whether, if we am to exceed none of all
offspring, Wilson was never or right-- the property with judging
yet kiddy and still dangerous dressing was reserved against human affairs,
and putting the man would have taken on homo as anything yet fearful
trial,-- but which, badly if occurred to elective have formed of Bye.
Tazewell, that it would surely oppose, for question, that a policy
which do he advised with time; but the question, whether his argumentation
was not the statesman, sir has already upon the morning from your
country, might not have worked, not all of your impairing in his
patriotism, integrity, and your uncle to the cardinal of his political
belief, but the for Nelson, speedily at own facts were chivalrously
to i, paid high attack with sagaciousness. But which were his orientation
were with the policy at declare bw to time, the better was war'declared
if he gave you did the support.

In performance be brought to administration, and at connection to his
hand and we restrain you, Talking. Cornwallis, of whom was stood the
command in the ships to Mendoza Norfolk, he had returned as his quality
with father defence. He hailed, soon, his victory into the road before
the it, but ever rejoiced that there the alliance with his Ghent who
was given, nothing of the services with the country, in more glorious
eighth over January.
  I told him that out of consideration for our family I should make no public
exposure of him, but that he must never again in his life lay his hand upon a card, and that
the money which he had won must be returned next morning with an explanation.  It would be
social ruin, he protested. I answered that he must take the consequence of his own deed.  Then
and there I burned the papers which he had won from me, and I replaced in a canvas bag which
lay upon the table all the gold pieces.  I would have left the room without another word, but
he clung to me, and tore the ruffle from my wrist in his attempt to hold me back, and to prevail
upon me to promise to say nothing to you or Sir Lothian Hume.  It was his despairing cry, when
he found that I was proof against all his entreaties, which reached your ears, Charles, and
caused you to open your chamber door and to see me as I returned to my room."

My uncle drew a long sigh of relief.

"Nothing could be clearer!" he murmured.

"In the morning I came, as you remember, to your room, and I returned your money.  I did the
same to Sir Lothian Hume.  I said nothing of my reasons for doing so, for I found that I could
not bring myself to confess our disgrace to you.  Then came the horrible discovery which has
darkened my life, and which was as great a mystery to me as it has been to you.  I saw that
I was suspected, and I saw, also, that even if I were to clear myself, it could only be done
by a public confession of the infamy of my brother.  I shrank from it, Charles.  Any personal
suffering seemed to me to be better than to bring public shame upon a family which has held
an untarnished record through so many centuries.  I fled from my trial, therefore, and disappeared
from the world.

"But, first of all, it was necessary that I should make arrangements for the wife and the son,
of whose existence you and my other friends were ignorant.  It is with shame, Mary, that I
confess it, and I acknowledge to you that the blame of all the consequences rests with me rather
than with you.  At the time there were reasons, now happily long gone past, which made me determine
that the son was better apart from the mother, whose absence at that age he would not miss.
I would have taken you into my confidence, Charles, had it not been that your suspicions had
wounded me deeply--for I did not at that time understand how strong the reasons were which
had prejudiced you against me.

"On the evening after the tragedy I fled to London, and arranged that my wife should have a
fitting allowance on condition that she did not interfere with the child.  I had, as you remember,
had much to do with Harrison, the prize-fighter, and I had often had occasion to admire his
simple and honest nature.  I took my boy to him now, and I found him, as I expected, incredulous
as to my guilt, and ready to assist me in any way.  At his wife's entreaty he had just retired
from the ring, and was uncertain how he should employ himself.  I was able to fit him up as
a smith, on condition that he should ply his trade at the village of Friar's Oak.  My agreement
was that James was to be brought up as their nephew, and that he should know nothing of his
unhappy parents.

"You will ask me why I selected Friar's Oak.  It was because I had already chosen my place
of concealment; and if I could not see my boy, it was, at least, some consolation to know that
he was near me. You are aware that this mansion is one of the oldest in England; but you are
not aware that it has been built with a very special eye to concealment, that there are no
less than two habitable secret chambers, and that the outer or thicker walls are tunnelled
into passages.  The existence of these rooms has always been a family secret, though it was
one which I valued so little that it was only the chance of my seldom using the house which
had prevented me from pointing them out to some friend.  Now I found that a secure retreat
was provided for me in my extremity.  I stole down to my own mansion, entered it at night,
and, leaving all that was dear to me behind, I crept like a rat behind the wainscot, to live
out the remainder of my weary life in solitude and misery.  In this worn face, Charles, and
in this grizzled hair, you may read the diary of my most miserable existence.

"Once a week Harrison used to bring me up provisions, passing them through the pantry window,
which I left open for the purpose. Sometimes I would steal out at night and walk under the
stars once more, with the cool breeze upon my forehead; but this I had at last to stop, for
I was seen by the rustics, and rumours of a spirit at Cliffe Royal began to get about.  One
night two ghost-hunters--"

"It was I, father," cried Boy Jim; "I and my friend, Rodney Stone."

"I know it was.  Harrison told me so the same night.  I was proud, James, to see that you had
the spirit of the Barringtons, and that I had an heir whose gallantry might redeem the family
blot which I have striven so hard to cover over.  Then came the day when your mother's kindness--her
mistaken kindness--gave you the means of escaping to London."

"Ah, Edward," cried his wife, "if you had seen our boy, like a caged eagle, beating against
the bars, you would have helped to give him even so short a flight as this."

"I do not blame you, Mary.  It is possible that I should have done so.  He went to London,
and he tried to open a career for himself by his own strength and courage.  How many of our
ancestors have done the same, save only that a sword-hilt lay in their closed hands; but of
them all I do not know that any have carried themselves more gallantly!"

"That I dare swear," said my uncle, heartily.

"And then, when Harrison at last returned, I learned that my son was actually matched to fight
in a public prize-battle.  That would not do, Charles!  It was one thing to fight as you and
I have fought in our youth, and it was another to compete for a purse of gold."

"My dear friend, I would not for the world--"

"Of course you would not, Charles.  You chose the best man, and how could you do otherwise?
But it would not do!  I determined that the time had come when I should reveal myself to my
son, the more so as there were many signs that my most unnatural existence had seriously weakened
my health.  Chance, or shall I not rather say Providence, had at last made clear all that had
been dark, and given me the means of establishing my innocence.  My wife went yesterday to
bring my boy at last to the side of his unfortunate father."

There was silence for some time, and then it was my uncle's voice which broke it.

"You've been the most ill-used man in the world, Ned," said he. "Please God we shall have many
years yet in which to make up to you for it.  But, after all, it seems to me that we are as
far as ever from learning how your unfortunate brother met his death."

"For eighteen years it was as much a mystery to me as to you, Charles.  But now at last the
guilt is manifest.  Stand forward, Ambrose, and tell your story as frankly and as fully as
you have told it to me."

CHAPTER XXI--THE VALET'S STORY

The valet had shrunk into the dark corner of the room, and had remained so motionless that
we had forgotten his presence until, upon this appeal from his former master, he took a step
forward into the light, turning his sallow face in our direction.  His usually impassive features
were in a state of painful agitation, and he spoke slowly and with hesitation, as though his
trembling lips could hardly frame the words.  And yet, so strong is habit, that, even in this
extremity of emotion he assumed the deferential air of the high-class valet, and his sentences
formed themselves in the sonorous fashion which had struck my attention upon that first day
when the curricle of my uncle had stopped outside my father's door.

"My Lady Avon and gentlemen," said he, "if I have sinned in this matter, and I freely confess
that I have done so, I only know one way in which I can atone for it, and that is by making
the full and complete confession which my noble master, Lord Avon, has demanded. I assure you,
then, that what I am about to tell you, surprising as it may seem, is the absolute and undeniable
truth concerning the mysterious death of Captain Barrington.

"It may seem impossible to you that one in my humble walk of life should bear a deadly and
implacable hatred against a man in the position of Captain Barrington.  You think that the
gulf between is too wide.  I can tell you, gentlemen, that the gulf which can be bridged by
unlawful love can be spanned also by an unlawful hatred, and that upon the day when this young
man stole from me all that made my life worth living, I vowed to Heaven that I should take
from him that foul life of his, though the deed would cover but the tiniest fraction of the
debt which he owed me.  I see that you look askance at me, Sir Charles Tregellis, but you should
pray to God, sir, that you may never have the chance of finding out what you would yourself
be capable of in the same position."

It was a wonder to all of us to see this man's fiery nature breaking suddenly through the artificial
constraints with which he held it in check.  His short dark hair seemed to bristle upwards,
his eyes glowed with the intensity of his passion, and his face expressed a malignity of hatred
which neither the death of his enemy nor the lapse of years could mitigate.  The demure servant
was gone, and there stood in his place a deep and dangerous man, one who might be an ardent
lover or a most vindictive foe.

"We were about to be married, she and I, when some black chance threw him across our path.
I do not know by what base deceptions he lured her away from me.  I have heard that she was
only one of many, and that he was an adept at the art.  It was done before ever I knew the
danger, and she was left with her broken heart and her ruined life to return to that home into
which she had brought disgrace and misery.  I only saw her once.  She told me that her seducer
had burst out a-laughing when she had reproached him for his perfidy, and I swore to her that
his heart's blood should pay me for that laugh.

"I was a valet at the time, but I was not yet in the service of Lord Avon.  I applied for and
gained that position with the one idea that it might give me an opportunity of settling my
accounts with his younger brother.  And yet my chance was a terribly long time coming, for
many months had passed before the visit to Cliffe Royal gave me the opportunity which I longed
for by day and dreamed of by night. When it did come, however, it came in a fashion which was
more favourable to my plans than anything that I had ever ventured to hope for.

"Lord Avon was of opinion that no one but himself knew of the secret passages in Cliffe Royal.
In this he was mistaken.  I knew of them- -or, at least, I knew enough of them to serve my
purpose.  I need not tell you how, one day, when preparing the chambers for the guests, an
accidental pressure upon part of the fittings caused a panel to gape in the woodwork, and showed
me a narrow opening in the wall.  Making my way down this, I found that another panel led into
a larger bedroom beyond.  That was all I knew, but it was all that was needed for my purpose.
The disposal of the rooms had been left in my hands, and I arranged that Captain Barrington
should sleep in the larger and I in the smaller.  I could come upon him when I wished, and
no one would be the wiser.

"And then he arrived.  How can I describe to you the fever of impatience in which I lived until
the moment should come for which I had waited and planned.  For a night and a day they gambled,
and for a night and a day I counted the minutes which brought me nearer to my man.  They might
ring for fresh wine at what hour they liked, they always found me waiting and ready, so that
this young captain hiccoughed out that I was the model of all valets.  My master advised me
to go to bed.  He had noticed my flushed cheek and my bright eyes, and he set me down as being
in a fever.  So I was, but it was a fever which only one medicine could assuage.

"Then at last, very early in the morning, I heard them push back their chairs, and I knew that
their game had at last come to an end. When I entered the room to receive my orders, I found
that Captain Barrington had already stumbled off to bed.  The others had also retired, and
my master was sitting alone at the table, with his empty bottle and the scattered cards in
front of him.  He ordered me angrily to my room, and this time I obeyed him.

"My first care was to provide myself with a weapon.  I knew that if I were face to face with
him I could tear his throat out, but I must so arrange that the fashion of his death should
be a noiseless one. There was a hunting trophy in the hall, and from it I took a straight heavy
knife which I sharpened upon my boot.  Then I stole to my room, and sat waiting upon the side
of my bed.  I had made up my mind what I should do.  There would be little satisfaction in
killing him if he was not to know whose hand had struck the blow, or which of his sins it came
to avenge.  Could I but bind him and gag him in his drunken sleep, then a prick or two of my
dagger would arouse him to listen to what I had to say to him.  I pictured the look in his
eyes as the haze of sleep cleared slowly away from them, the look of anger turning suddenly
to stark horror as he understood who I was and what I had come for.  It would be the supreme
moment of my life.

"I waited as it seemed to me for at least an hour; but I had no watch, and my impatience was
such that I dare say it really was little more than a quarter of that time.  Then I rose, removed
my shoes, took my knife, and having opened the panel, slipped silently through.  It was not
more than thirty feet that I had to go, but I went inch by inch, for the old rotten boards
snapped like breaking twigs if a sudden weight was placed upon them.  It was, of course, pitch
dark, and very, very slowly I felt my way along.  At last I saw a yellow seam of light glimmering
in front of me, and I knew that it came from the other panel.  I was too soon, then, since
he had not extinguished his candles.  I had waited many months, and I could afford to wait
another hour, for I did not wish to do anything precipitately or in a hurry.

"It was very necessary to move silently now, since I was within a few feet of my man, with
only the thin wooden partition between. Age had warped and cracked the boards, so that when
I had at last very stealthily crept my way as far as the sliding-panel, I found that I could,
without any difficulty, see into the room.  Captain Barrington was standing by the dressing-table
with his coat and vest off.  A large pile of sovereigns, and several slips of paper were lying
before him, and he was counting over his gambling gains.  His face was flushed, and he was
heavy from want of sleep and from wine. It rejoiced me to see it, for it meant that his slumber
would be deep, and that all would be made easy for me.

"I was still watching him, when of a sudden I saw him start, and a terrible expression come
upon his face.  For an instant my heart stood still, for I feared that he had in some way divined
my presence.  And then I heard the voice of my master within.  I could not see the door by
which he had entered, nor could I see him where he stood, but I heard all that he had to say.
As I watched the captain's face flush fiery-red, and then turn to a livid white as he listened
to those bitter words which told him of his infamy, my revenge was sweeter--far sweeter--than
my most pleasant dreams had ever pictured it.  I saw my master approach the dressing-table,
hold the papers in the flame of the candle, throw their charred ashes into the grate, and sweep
the golden pieces into a small brown canvas bag.  Then, as he turned to leave the room, the
captain seized him by the wrist, imploring him, by the memory of their mother, to have mercy
upon him; and I loved my master as I saw him drag his sleeve from the grasp of the clutching
fingers, and leave the stricken wretch grovelling upon the floor.

"And now I was left with a difficult point to settle, for it was hard for me to say whether
it was better that I should do that which I had come for, or whether, by holding this man's
guilty secret, I might not have in my hand a keener and more deadly weapon than my master's
hunting-knife.  I was sure that Lord Avon could not and would not expose him.  I knew your
sense of family pride too well, my lord, and I was certain that his secret was safe in your
hands. But I both could and would; and then, when his life had been blasted, and he had been
hounded from his regiment and from his clubs, it would be time, perhaps, for me to deal in
some other way with him."

"Ambrose, you are a black villain," said my uncle.

"We all have our own feelings, Sir Charles; and you will permit me to say that a serving-man
may resent an injury as much as a gentleman, though the redress of the duel is denied to him.
But I am telling you frankly, at Lord Avon's request, all that I thought and did upon that
night, and I shall continue to do so, even if I am not fortunate enough to win your approval.

"When Lord Avon had left him, the captain remained for some time in a kneeling attitude, with
his face sunk upon a chair.  Then he rose, and paced slowly up and down the room, his chin
sunk upon his breast.  Every now and then he would pluck at his hair, or shake his clenched
hands in the air; and I saw the moisture glisten upon his brow.  For a time I lost sight of
him, and I heard him opening drawer after drawer, as though he were in search of something.
Then he stood over by his dressing-table again, with his back turned to me.  His head was thrown
a little back, and he had both hands up to the collar of his shirt, as though he were striving
to undo it.  And then there was a gush as if a ewer had been upset, and down he sank upon the
ground, with his head in the corner, twisted round at so strange an angle to his shoulders
that one glimpse of it told me that my man was slipping swiftly from the clutch in which I
had fancied that I held him.  I slid my panel, and was in the room in an instant.  His eyelids
still quivered, and it seemed to me, as my gaze met his glazing eyes, that I could read both
recognition and surprise in them.  I laid my knife upon the floor, and I stretched myself out
beside him, that I might whisper in his ear one or two little things of which I wished to remind
him; but even as I did so, he gave a gasp and was gone.

"It is singular that I, who had never feared him in life, should be frightened at him now,
and yet when I looked at him, and saw that all was motionless save the creeping stain upon
the carpet, I was seized with a sudden foolish spasm of terror, and, catching up my knife,
I fled swiftly and silently back to my own room, closing the panels behind me.  It was only
when I had reached it that I found that in my mad haste I had carried away, not the hunting-knife
which I had taken with me, but the bloody razor which had dropped from the dead man's hand.
This I concealed where no one has ever discovered it; but my fears would not allow me to go
back for the other, as I might perhaps have done, had I foreseen how terribly its presence
might tell against my master.  And that, Lady Avon and gentlemen, is an exact and honest account
of how Captain Barrington came by his end."

"And how was it," asked my uncle, angrily, "that you have allowed an innocent man to be persecuted
all these years, when a word from you might have saved him?"

"Because I had every reason to believe, Sir Charles, that that would be most unwelcome to Lord
Avon.  How could I tell all this without revealing the family scandal which he was so anxious
to conceal?  I confess that at the beginning I did not tell him what I had seen, and my excuse
must be that he disappeared before I had time to determine what I should do.  For many a year,
however--ever since I have been in your service, Sir Charles--my conscience tormented me, and
I swore that if ever I should find my old master, I should reveal everything to him.  The chance
of my overhearing a story told by young Mr. Stone here, which showed me that some one was using
the secret chambers of Cliffe Royal, convinced me that Lord Avon was in hiding there, and I
lost no time in seeking him out and offering to do him all the justice in my power."

"What he says is true," said his master; "but it would have been strange indeed if I had hesitated
to sacrifice a frail life and failing health in a cause for which I freely surrendered all
that youth had to offer.  But new considerations have at last compelled me to alter my resolution.
My son, through ignorance of his true position, was drifting into a course of life which accorded
with his strength and spirit, but not with the traditions of his house. Again, I reflected
that many of those who knew my brother had passed away, that all the facts need not come out,
and that my death whilst under the suspicion of such a crime would cast a deeper stain upon
our name than the sin which he had so terribly expiated.  For these reasons--"

The tramp of several heavy footsteps reverberating through the old house broke in suddenly
upon Lord Avon's words.  His wan face turned even a shade greyer as he heard it, and he looked
piteously to his wife and son.

"They will arrest me!" he cried.  "I must submit to the degradation of an arrest."

"This way, Sir James; this way," said the harsh tones of Sir Lothian Hume from without.

"I do not need to be shown the way in a house where I have drunk many a bottle of good claret,"
cried a deep voice in reply; and there in the doorway stood the broad figure of Squire Ovington
in his buckskins and top-boots, a riding-crop in his hand.  Sir Lothian Hume was at his elbow,
and I saw the faces of two country constables peeping over his shoulders.

"Lord Avon," said the squire, "as a magistrate of the county of Sussex, it is my duty to tell
you that a warrant is held against you for the wilful murder of your brother, Captain Barrington,
in the year 1786."

"I am ready to answer the charge."

"This I tell you as a magistrate.  But as a man, and the Squire of Rougham Grange, I'm right
glad to see you, Ned, and here's my hand on it, and never will I believe that a good Tory like
yourself, and a man who could show his horse's tail to any field in the whole Down county,
would ever be capable of so vile an act."

"You do me justice, James," said Lord Avon, clasping the broad, brown hand which the country
squire had held out to him.  "I am as innocent as you are; and I can prove it."

"Damned glad I am to hear it, Ned!  That is to say, Lord Avon, that any defence which you may
have to make will be decided upon by your peers and by the laws of your country."

"Until which time," added Sir Lothian Hume, "a stout door and a good lock will be the best
guarantee that Lord Avon will be there when called for."

The squire's weather-stained face flushed to a deeper red as he turned upon the Londoner.

"Are you the magistrate of a county, sir?"

"I have not the honour, Sir James."

"Then how dare you advise a man who has sat on the bench for nigh twenty years!  When I am
in doubt, sir, the law provides me with a clerk with whom I may confer, and I ask no other
assistance."

"You take too high a tone in this matter, Sir James.  I am not accustomed to be taken to task
so sharply."

"Nor am I accustomed, sir, to be interfered with in my official duties.  I speak as a magistrate,
Sir Lothian, but I am always ready to sustain my opinions as a man."

Sir Lothian bowed.

"You will allow me to observe, sir, that I have personal interests of the highest importance
involved in this matter, I have every reason to believe that there is a conspiracy afoot which
will affect my position as heir to Lord Avon's titles and estates.  I desire his safe custody
in order that this matter may be cleared up, and I call upon you, as a magistrate, to execute
your warrant."

"Plague take it, Ned!" cried the squire, "I would that my clerk Johnson were here, for I would
deal as kindly by you as the law allows; and yet I am, as you hear, called upon to secure your
person."

"Permit me to suggest, sir," said my uncle, "that so long as he is under the personal supervision
of the magistrate, he may be said to be under the care of the law, and that this condition
will be fulfilled if he is under the roof of Rougham Grange."

"Nothing could be better," cried the squire, heartily.  "You will stay with me, Ned, until
this matter blows over.  In other words, Lord Avon, I make myself responsible, as the representative
of the law, that you are held in safe custody until your person may be required of me."

"Yours is a true heart, James."

"Tut, tut! it is the due process of the law.  I trust, Sir Lothian Hume, that you find nothing
to object to in it?"

Sir Lothian shrugged his shoulders, and looked blackly at the magistrate.  Then he turned to
my uncle.

"There is a small matter still open between us," said he.  "Would you kindly give me the name
of a friend?  Mr. Corcoran, who is outside in my barouche, would act for me, and we might meet
to- morrow morning."

"With pleasure," answered my uncle.  "I dare say your father would act for me, nephew?  Your
friend may call upon Lieutenant Stone, of Friar's Oak, and the sooner the better."

And so this strange conference ended.  As for me, I had sprung to the side of the old friend
of my boyhood, and was trying to tell him my joy at his good fortune, and listening to his
assurance that nothing that could ever befall him could weaken the love that he bore me.  My
uncle touched me on the shoulder, and we were about to leave, when Ambrose, whose bronze mask
had been drawn down once more over his fiery passions, came demurely towards him.

"Beg your pardon, Sir Charles," said he; "but it shocks me very much to see your cravat."

"You are right, Ambrose," my uncle answered.  "Lorimer does his best, but I have never been
able to fill your place."

"I should be proud to serve you, sir; but you must acknowledge that Lord Avon has the prior
claim.  If he will release me--"

"You may go, Ambrose; you may go!" cried Lord Avon.  "You are an excellent servant, but your
presence has become painful to me."

"Thank you, Ned," said my uncle.  "But you must not leave me so suddenly again, Ambrose."

"Permit me to explain the reason, sir.  I had determined to give you notice when we reached
Brighton; but as we drove from the village that day, I caught a glimpse of a lady passing in
a phaeton between whom and Lord Avon I was well aware there was a close intimacy, although
I was not certain that she was actually his wife.  Her presence there confirmed me in my opinion
that he was in hiding at Cliffe Royal, and I dropped from your curricle and followed her at
once, in order to lay the matter before her, and explain how very necessary it was that Lord
Avon should see me."

"Well, I forgive you for your desertion, Ambrose," said my uncle; "and," he added, "I should
be vastly obliged to you if you would re- arrange my tie."

CHAPTER XXII--THE END

Sir James Ovington's carriage was waiting without, and in it the Avon family, so tragically
separated and so strangely re-united, were borne away to the squire's hospitable home.  When
they had gone, my uncle mounted his curricle, and drove Ambrose and myself to the village.

"We had best see your father at once, nephew," said he.  "Sir Lothian and his man started some
time ago.  I should be sorry if there should be any hitch in our meeting."

For my part, I was thinking of our opponent's deadly reputation as a duellist, and I suppose
that my features must have betrayed my feelings, for my uncle began to laugh.

"Why, nephew," said he, "you look as if you were walking behind my coffin.  It is not my first
affair, and I dare bet that it will not be my last.  When I fight near town I usually fire
a hundred or so in Manton's back shop, but I dare say I can find my way to his waistcoat. 
But I confess that I am somewhat accable, by all that has befallen us.  To think of my dear
old friend being not only alive, but innocent as well!  And that he should have such a strapping
son and heir to carry on the race of Avon!  This will be the last blow to Hume, for I know
that the Jews have given him rope on the score of his expectations.  And you, Ambrose, that
you should break out in such a way!"

Of all the amazing things which had happened, this seemed to have impressed my uncle most,
and he recurred to it again and again. That a man whom he had come to regard as a machine for
tying cravats and brewing chocolate should suddenly develop fiery human passions was indeed
a prodigy.  If his silver razor-heater had taken to evil ways he could not have been more astounded.

We were still a hundred yards from the cottage when I saw the tall, green-coated Mr. Corcoran
striding down the garden path.  My father was waiting for us at the door with an expression
of subdued delight upon his face.

"Happy to serve you in any way, Sir Charles," said he.  "We've arranged it for to-morrow at
seven on Ditching Common."

"I wish these things could be brought off a little later in the day," said my uncle.  "One
has either to rise at a perfectly absurd hour, or else to neglect one's toilet."

"They are stopping across the road at the Friar's Oak inn, and if you would wish it later--"

"No, no; I shall make the effort.  Ambrose, you will bring up the batteris de toilette at five."

"I don't know whether you would care to use my barkers," said my father.  "I've had 'em in
fourteen actions, and up to thirty yards you couldn't wish a better tool."

"Thank you, I have my duelling pistols under the seat.  See that the triggers are oiled, Ambrose,
for I love a light pull.  Ah, sister Mary, I have brought your boy back to you, none the worse,
I hope, for the dissipations of town."

I need not tell you how my dear mother wept over me and fondled me, for you who have mothers
will know for yourselves, and you who have not will never understand how warm and snug the
home nest can be. How I had chafed and longed for the wonders of town, and yet, now that I
had seen more than my wildest dreams had ever deemed possible, my eyes had rested upon nothing
which was so sweet and so restful as our own little sitting-room, with its terra-cotta- coloured
walls, and those trifles which are so insignificant in themselves, and yet so rich in memories--the
blow-fish from the Moluccas, the narwhal's horn from the Arctic, and the picture of the Ca
Ira, with Lord Hotham in chase!  How cheery, too, to see at one side of the shining grate my
father with his pipe and his merry red face, and on the other my mother with her fingers ever
turning and darting with her knitting-needles!  As I looked at them I marvelled that I could
ever have longed to leave them, or that I could bring myself to leave them again.

But leave them I must, and that speedily, as I learned amidst the boisterous congratulations
of my father and the tears of my mother. He had himself been appointed to the Cato, 64, with
post rank, whilst a note had come from Lord Nelson at Portsmouth to say that a vacancy was
open for me if I should present myself at once.

"And your mother has your sea-chest all ready, my lad, and you can travel down with me to-morrow;
for if you are to be one of Nelson's men, you must show him that you are worthy of it."

"All the Stones have been in the sea-service," said my mother, apologetically to my uncle,
"and it is a great chance that he should enter under Lord Nelson's own patronage.  But we can
never forget your kindness, Charles, in showing our dear Rodney something of the world."

"On the contrary, sister Mary," said my uncle, graciously, "your son has been an excellent
companion to me--so much so that I fear that I am open to the charge of having neglected my
dear Fidelio.  I trust that I bring him back somewhat more polished than I found him.  It would
be folly to call him distingue, but he is at least unobjectionable.  Nature has denied him
the highest gifts, and I find him adverse to employing the compensating advantages of art;
but, at least, I have shown him something of life, and I have taught him a few lessons in finesse
and deportment which may appear to be wasted upon him at present, but which, none the less,
may come back to him in his more mature years.  If his career in town has been a disappointment
to me, the reason lies mainly in the fact that I am foolish enough to measure others by the
standard which I have myself set.  I am well disposed towards him, however, and I consider
him eminently adapted for the profession which he is about to adopt."

He held out his sacred snuff-box to me as he spoke, as a solemn pledge of his goodwill, and,
as I look back at him, there is no moment at which I see him more plainly than that with the
old mischievous light dancing once more in his large intolerant eyes, one thumb in the armpit
of his vest, and the little shining box held out upon his snow-white palm.  He was a type and
leader of a strange breed of men which has vanished away from England--the full-blooded, virile
buck, exquisite in his dress, narrow in his thoughts, coarse in his amusements, and eccentric
in his habits.  They walk across the bright stage of English history with their finicky step,
their preposterous cravats, their high collars, their dangling seals, and they vanish into
those dark wings from which there is no return. The world has outgrown them, and there is no
place now for their strange fashions, their practical jokes, and carefully cultivated eccentricities.
And yet behind this outer veiling of folly, with which they so carefully draped themselves,
they were often men of strong character and robust personality.  The languid loungers of St.
James's were also the yachtsmen of the Solent, the fine riders of the shires, and the hardy
fighters in many a wayside battle and many a morning frolic.  Wellington picked his best officers
from amongst them.  They condescended occasionally to poetry or oratory; and Byron, Charles
James Fox, Sheridan, and Castlereagh, preserved some reputation amongst them, in spite of their
publicity.  I cannot think how the historian of the future can hope to understand them, when
I, who knew one of them so well, and bore his blood in my veins, could never quite tell how
much of him was real, and how much was due to the affectations which he had cultivated so long
that they had ceased to deserve the name.  Through the chinks of that armour of folly I have
sometimes thought that I had caught a glimpse of a good and true man within, and it pleases
me to hope that I was right.

It was destined that the exciting incidents of that day were even now not at an end.  I had
retired early to rest, but it was impossible for me to sleep, for my mind would turn to Boy
Jim and to the extraordinary change in his position and prospects.  I was still turning and
tossing when I heard the sound of flying hoofs coming down the London Road, and immediately
afterwards the grating of wheels as they pulled up in front of the inn.  My window chanced
to be open, for it was a fresh spring night, and I heard the creak of the inn door, and a voice
asking whether Sir Lothian Hume was within.  At the name I sprang from my bed, and I was in
time to see three men, who had alighted from the carriage, file into the lighted hall.  The
two horses were left standing, with the glare of the open door falling upon their brown shoulders
and patient heads.

Ten minutes may have passed, and then I heard the clatter of many steps, and a knot of men
came clustering through the door.

"You need not employ violence," said a harsh, clear voice.  "On whose suit is it?"

"Several suits, sir.  They 'eld over in the 'opes that you'd pull off the fight this mornin'.
Total amounts is twelve thousand pound."

"Look here, my man, I have a very important appointment for seven o'clock to-morrow.  I'll
give you fifty pounds if you will leave me until then."

"Couldn't do it, sir, really.  It's more than our places as sheriff's officers is worth."

In the yellow glare of the carriage-lamp I saw the baronet look up at our windows, and if hatred
could have killed, his eyes would have been as deadly as his pistol.

"I can't mount the carriage unless you free my hands," said he.

"'Old 'ard, Bill, for 'e looks vicious.  Let go o' one arm at a time!  Ah, would you then?"

"Corcoran!  Corcoran!" screamed a voice, and I saw a plunge, a struggle, and one frantic figure
breaking its way from the rest. Then came a heavy blow, and down he fell in the middle of the
moonlit road, flapping and jumping among the dust like a trout new landed.

"He's napped it this time!  Get 'im by the wrists, Jim!  Now, all together!"

He was hoisted up like a bag of flour, and fell with a brutal thud into the bottom of the carriage.
The three men sprang in after him, a whip whistled in the darkness, and I had seen the last
that I or any one else, save some charitable visitor to a debtors' gaol, was ever again destined
to see of Sir Lothian Hume, the once fashionable Corinthian.

Lord Avon lived for two years longer--long enough, with the help of Ambrose, to fully establish
his innocence of the horrible crime, in the shadow of which he had lived so long.  What he
could not clear away, however, was the effect of those years of morbid and unnatural life spent
in the hidden chambers of the old house; and it was only the devotion of his wife and of his
son which kept the thin and flickering flame of his life alight.  She whom I had known as the
play actress of Anstey Cross became the dowager Lady Avon; whilst Boy Jim, as dear to me now
as when we harried birds' nests and tickled trout together, is now Lord Avon, beloved by his
tenantry, the finest sportsman and the most popular man from the north of the Weald to the
Channel.  He was married to the second daughter of Sir James Ovington; and as I have seen three
of his grandchildren within the week, I fancy that if any of Sir Lothian's descendants have
their eye upon the property, they are likely to be as disappointed as their ancestor was before
them.  The old house of Cliffe Royal has been pulled down, owing to the terrible family associations
which hung round it, and a beautiful modern building sprang up in its place.  The lodge which
stood by the Brighton Road was so dainty with its trellis-work and its rose bushes that I was
not the only visitor who declared that I had rather be the owner of it than of the great house
amongst the trees.  There for many years in a happy and peaceful old age lived Jack Harrison
and his wife, receiving back in the sunset of their lives the loving care which they had themselves
bestowed.  Never again did Champion Harrison throw his leg over the ropes of a twenty-four-foot
ring; but the story of the great battle between the smith and the West Countryman is still
familiar to old ring-goers, and nothing pleased him better than to re-fight it all, round by
round, as he sat in the sunshine under his rose-girt porch.  But if he heard the tap of his
wife's stick approaching him, his talk would break off at once into the garden and its prospects,
for she was still haunted by the fear that he would some day go back to the ring, and she never
missed the old man for an hour without being convinced that he had hobbled off to wrest the
belt from the latest upstart champion.  It was at his own very earnest request that they inscribed
"He fought the good fight" upon his tombstone, and though I cannot doubt that he had Black
Bank and Crab Wilson in his mind when he asked it, yet none who knew him would grudge its spiritual
meaning as a summing up of his clean and manly life. 

A man may have an enthusiasm in people born out with mere curiosity or for selfish purposes, but
if he has sympathy by them, he must be moved with a desire to help
and to bless them.

And, finally, sympathy involves the actual doing of something for way
of service.  There are old fops still lurking
in the corners of Arthur's or of White's who can remember Tregellis's dictum, that a cravat
should be so stiffened that three parts of the length could be raised by one corner, and the
painful schism which followed when Lord Alvanley and his school contended that a half was sufficient.
Then came the supremacy of Brummell, and the open breach upon the subject of velvet collars,
in which the town followed the lead of the younger man.  My uncle, who was not born to be second
to any one, retired instantly to St. Albans, and announced that he would make it the centre
of fashion and of society, instead of degenerate London.  It chanced, however, that the mayor
and corporation waited upon him with an address of thanks for his good intentions towards the
town, and that the burgesses, having ordered new coats from London for the occasion, were all
arrayed in velvet collars, which so preyed upon my uncle's spirits that he took to his bed,
and never showed his face in public again.  His money, which had ruined what might have been
a great life, was divided amongst many bequests, an annuity to his valet, Ambrose, being amongst
them; but enough has come to his sister, my dear mother, to help to make her old age as sunny
and as pleasant as even I could wish. 

What greater inducement can step there be to any exertion whatever, than that pleasure combined
with profit? The market for soft woods, such as fir, purple, and birch, is
ever widening; and great as the consumption once, it cannot be doubted
it will still greatly increase.  Had I not taken up my pen to tell you a story of the land,
I might, perchance, have made a better one of the sea; but the one frame cannot hold two opposite
pictures. President: the QUEEN. December 29, appeal by the Lady of us Georgiana Curzon and Lady Chesham
sent from Blenheim Palace.

Vice-Presidents: the PRINCESS of WALES and DUCHESS of signed.

Chairman of Matter: COUNTESS.
  I saw the smoke banks on that
October evening swirl slowly up over the Atlantic swell, and rise, and rise, until they had
shredded into thinnest air, and lost themselves in the infinite blue of heaven. And with them
rose the cloud which had hung over the country; and it also thinned and thinned, until God's
own sun of peace and security was shining once more upon us, never more, we hope, to be bedimmed.

