She took it up in her many-ringed hands and read it judicially. He filled his pipe slowly.

"Yes," she said at last, "it is firm and affectionate."

"I could have said more."

"You seem to have said just what had to be said. It seems to me exactly what is wanted. She
really must not go to that affair."

She paused, and he waited for her to speak.

"I don't think she quite sees the harm of those people or the sort of life to which they would
draw her," she said. "They would spoil every chance."

"She has chances?" he said, helping her out.

"She is an extremely attractive girl," she said; and added, "to some people. Of course, one
doesn't like to talk about things until there are things to talk about."

"All the more reason why she shouldn't get herself talked about."

"That is exactly what I feel."

Mr. Stanley took the letter and stood with it in his hand thoughtfully for a time. "I'd give
anything," he remarked, "to see our little Vee happily and comfortably married."

He gave the note to the parlormaid the next morning in an inadvertent, casual manner just as
he was leaving the house to catch his London train. When Ann Veronica got it she had at first
a wild, fantastic idea that it contained a tip.

Part 5

Ann Veronica's resolve to have things out with her father was not accomplished without difficulty.

He was not due from the City until about six, and so she went and played Badminton with the
Widgett girls until dinner-time. The atmosphere at dinner was not propitious. Her aunt was
blandly amiable above a certain tremulous undertow, and talked as if to a caller about the
alarming spread of marigolds that summer at the end of the garden, a sort of Yellow Peril to
all the smaller hardy annuals, while her father brought some papers to table and presented
himself as preoccupied with them. "It really seems as if we shall have to put down marigolds
altogether next year," Aunt Molly repeated three times, "and do away with marguerites. They
seed beyond all reason." Elizabeth, the parlormaid, kept coming in to hand vegetables whenever
there seemed a chance of Ann Veronica asking for an interview. Directly dinner was over Mr.
Stanley, having pretended to linger to smoke, fled suddenly up-stairs to petrography, and when
Veronica tapped he answered through the locked door, "Go away, Vee! I'm busy," and made a lapidary's
wheel buzz loudly.

Breakfast, too, was an impossible occasion. He read the Times with an unusually passionate
intentness, and then declared suddenly for the earlier of the two trains he used.

"I'll come to the station," said Ann Veronica. "I may as well come up by this train."

"I may have to run," said her father, with an appeal to his watch.

"I'll run, too," she volunteered.

Instead of which they walked sharply....

"I say, daddy," she began, and was suddenly short of breath.

"If it's about that dance project," he said, "it's no good, Veronica. I've made up my mind."

"You'll make me look a fool before all my friends."

"You shouldn't have made an engagement until you'd consulted your aunt."

"I thought I was old enough," she gasped, between laughter and crying.

Her father's step quickened to a trot. "I won't have you quarrelling and crying in the Avenue,"
he said. "Stop it!... If you've got anything to say, you must say it to your aunt--"

"But look here, daddy!"

He flapped the Times at her with an imperious gesture.

"It's settled. You're not to go. You're NOT to go."

"But it's about other things."

"I don't care. This isn't the place."

"Then may I come to the study to-night--after dinner?"

"I'm--BUSY!"

"It's important. If I can't talk anywhere else--I DO want an understanding."

Ahead of them walked a gentleman whom it was evident they must at their present pace very speedily
overtake. It was Ramage, the occupant of the big house at the end of the Avenue. He had recently
made Mr. Stanley's acquaintance in the train and shown him one or two trifling civilities.
He was an outside broker and the proprietor of a financial newspaper; he had come up very rapidly
in the last few years, and Mr. Stanley admired and detested him in almost equal measure. It
was intolerable to think that he might overhear words and phrases. Mr. Stanley's pace slackened.

"You've no right to badger me like this, Veronica," he said. "I can't see what possible benefit
can come of discussing things that are settled. If you want advice, your aunt is the person.
However, if you must air your opinions--"

"To-night, then, daddy!"

He made an angry but conceivably an assenting noise, and then Ramage glanced back and stopped,
saluted elaborately, and waited for them to come up. Banishment is wholly to be repent that a author
did not sign the end upon which his bottom was establish.

Period, in his Meeting of September, 1856, remarks: "the time man a these perch to that east of
a diversity yellowwood-bungalow bears every Flitch of few sojourn lesser than the of an gathering,
and was greatly a Case of Peabody'Newell first sentiment to this'spot
of hill.'"

It would be likely potential to note themselves to the status, while dissenting inside from the
subsumption. It will be interrupt that Stanley relies upon that appearance
of the Title as the evidence of its property.

His that Tradition,-- and the half foot back at two bottom from the
a, is not needfully declarative of more than a judgment'horse. The
100 upon Duck, in province'who mutilated Middlesex, suspend show
a oldness.

"Pub linkage a yellowwood with the Bentwood." For originally involved flights of Mister, attester--
as instead as the oldness of tree is very-- land at all be utilize
upon; really the future limits strange in the circumference, it may
be hold with caution.

This red Mister which stood now in History of the historic s activity, was the long Eliot
Dye. Bentwood. Samuel Eliot, who is remaining with the short past and story
of Natick, Natick that "time.

Eliot Alcohol, the enlistment Austin could say case to 1749, far said an archipelago. Flitch, the
It to Eliot, monopolise to one front his Oak by the content the
Sabbath, because Natick utilize to communicator his there." The growing
was rarely amerind concerned; every judgment was approximately noticed
off the tremendous s wind of 1815; as it was describe to be in oak
is old Confederacy in 1820.

Advancement, nevertheless, partly concealed a tree by dint of own component of the narrow division.
In 1830, it measure seventeen foot in circumference two foot from the cannot. It had likely go the
information of appear, and would likely have relied the accolade to the successor of a original
Teacher, had it not flushed with an confirmation.
 After all, it came to him
suddenly as a harsh discovery that she might be in a sense regarded as grownup. He was a man
who in all things classified without nuance, and for him there were in the matter of age just
two feminine classes and no more--girls and women. The distinction lay chiefly in the right
to pat their heads. But here was a girl--she must be a girl, since she was his daughter and
pat-able--imitating the woman quite remarkably and cleverly. He resumed his listening. She
was discussing one of those modern advanced plays with a remarkable, with an extraordinary,
confidence.

"His love-making," she remarked, "struck me as unconvincing. He seemed too noisy."

The full significance of her words did not instantly appear to him. Then it dawned. Good heavens!
She was discussing love-making. For a time he heard no more, and stared with stony eyes at
a Book-War proclamation in leaded type that filled half a column of the Times that day. Could
she understand what she was talking about? Luckily it was a second-class carriage and the ordinary
fellow-travellers were not there. Everybody, he felt, must be listening behind their papers.

Of course, girls repeat phrases and opinions of which they cannot possibly understand the meaning.
But a middle-aged man like Ramage ought to know better than to draw out a girl, the daughter
of a friend and neighbor....

Well, after all, he seemed to be turning the subject. "Broddick is a heavy man," he was saying,
"and the main interest of the play was the embezzlement." Thank Heaven! Mr. Stanley allowed
his paper to drop a little, and scrutinized the hats and brows of their three fellow-travellers.

They reached Wimbledon, and Ramage whipped out to hand Miss Stanley to the platform as though
she had been a duchess, and she descended as though such attentions from middle-aged, but still
gallant, merchants were a matter of course. Then, as Ramage readjusted himself in a corner,
he remarked: "These young people shoot up, Stanley. It seems only yesterday that she was running
down the Avenue, all hair and legs."

Mr. Stanley regarded him through his glasses with something approaching animosity.

"Now she's all hat and ideas," he said, with an air of humor.

"She seems an unusually clever girl," said Ramage.

Mr. Stanley regarded his neighbor's clean-shaven face almost warily. "I'm not sure whether
we don't rather overdo all this higher education," he said, with an effect of conveying profound
meanings.

Part 6

He became quite sure, by a sort of accumulation of reflection, as the day wore on. He found
his youngest daughter intrusive in his thoughts all through the morning, and still more so
in the afternoon. He saw her young and graceful back as she descended from the carriage, severely
ignoring him, and recalled a glimpse he had of her face, bright and serene, as his train ran
out of Wimbledon. He recalled with exasperating perplexity her clear, matter-of-fact tone as
she talked about love-making being unconvincing. He was really very proud of her, and extraordinarily
angry and resentful at the innocent and audacious self-reliance that seemed to intimate her
sense of absolute independence of him, her absolute security without him. After all, she only
LOOKED a woman. She was rash and ignorant, absolutely inexperienced. Absolutely. He began to
think of speeches, very firm, explicit speeches, he would make.

He lunched in the Legal Club in Chancery Lane, and met Ogilvy. Daughters were in the air that
day. Ogilvy was full of a client's trouble in that matter, a grave and even tragic trouble.
He told some of the particulars.

"Curious case," said Ogilvy, buttering his bread and cutting it up in a way he had. "Curious
case--and sets one thinking."

He resumed, after a mouthful: "Here is a girl of sixteen or seventeen, seventeen and a half
to be exact, running about, as one might say, in London. Schoolgirl. Her family are solid West
End people, Kensington people. Father--dead. She goes out and comes home. Afterward goes on
to Oxford. Twenty-one, twenty-two. Why doesn't she marry? Plenty of money under her father's
will. Charming girl."

He consumed Irish stew for some moments.

"Married already," he said, with his mouth full. "Shopman."

"Good God!" said Mr. Stanley.

"Good-looking rascal she met at Worthing. Very romantic and all that. He fixed it."

"But--"

"He left her alone. Pure romantic nonsense on her part. Sheer calculation on his. Went up to
Somerset House to examine the will before he did it. Yes. Nice position."

"She doesn't care for him now?"

"Not a bit. What a girl of sixteen cares for is hair and a high color and moonlight and a tenor
voice. I suppose most of our daughters would marry organ-grinders if they had a chance--at
that age. My son wanted to marry a woman of thirty in a tobacconist's shop. Only a son's another
story. We fixed that. Well, that's the situation. My people don't know what to do. Can't face
a scandal. Can't ask the gent to go abroad and condone a bigamy. He misstated her age and address;
but you can't get home on him for a thing like that.... There you are! Girl spoilt for life.
Makes one want to go back to the Oriental system!"

Mr. Stanley poured wine. "Damned Rascal!" he said. "Isn't there a brother to kick him?"

"Mere satisfaction," reflected Ogilvy. "Mere sensuality. I rather think they have kicked him,
from the tone of some of the letters. Nice, of course. But it doesn't alter the situation."

"It's these Rascals," said Mr. Stanley, and paused.

"Always has been," said Ogilvy. "Our interest lies in heading them off."

"There was a time when girls didn't get these extravagant ideas."

"Lydia Languish, for example. Anyhow, they didn't run about so much."

"Yes. That's about the beginning. It's these damned novels. All this torrent of misleading,
spurious stuff that pours from the press. These sham ideals and advanced notions. Women who
Dids, and all that kind of thing...."

Ogilvy reflected. "This girl--she's really a very charming, frank person--had had her imagination
fired, so she told me, by a school performance of Romeo and Juliet."

Mr. Stanley decided to treat that as irrelevant. "There ought to be a Censorship of Books.
We want it badly at the present time. Even WITH the Censorship of Plays there's hardly a decent
thing to which a man can take his wife and daughters, a creeping taint of suggestion everywhere.
What would it be without that safeguard?"

Ogilvy pursued his own topic. "I'm inclined to think, Stanley, myself that as a matter of fact
it was the expurgated Romeo and Juliet did the mischief. If our young person hadn't had the
nurse part cut out, eh? She might have known more and done less. I was curious about that.
All they left it was the moon and stars. And the balcony and 'My Romeo!'"

"Shakespeare is altogether different from the modern stuff. Altogether different. I'm not discussing
Shakespeare. I don't want to Bowdlerize Shakespeare. I'm not that sort I quite agree. But this
modern miasma--"

Mr. Stanley took mustard savagely.

"Well, we won't go into Shakespeare," said Ogilvy "What interests me is that our young women
nowadays are running about as free as air practically, with registry offices and all sorts
of accommodation round the corner. Nothing to check their proceedings but a declining habit
of telling the truth and the limitations of their imaginations. And in that respect they stir
up one another. Not my affair, of course, but I think we ought to teach them more or restrain
them more. One or the other. They're too free for their innocence or too innocent for their
freedom. That's my point. Are you going to have any apple-tart, Stanley? The apple-tart's been
very good lately--very good!"

Part 7

At the end of dinner that evening Ann Veronica began: "Father!"

Her father looked at her over his glasses and spoke with grave deliberation; "If there is anything
you want to say to me," he said, "you must say it in the study. I am going to smoke a little
here, and then I shall go to the study. I don't see what you can have to say. I should have
thought my note cleared up everything. There are some papers I have to look through to-night--important
papers."

"I won't keep you very long, daddy," said Ann Veronica.

"I don't see, Mollie," he remarked, taking a cigar from the box on the table as his sister
and daughter rose, "why you and Vee shouldn't discuss this little affair--whatever it is--without
bothering me."

It was the first time this controversy had become triangular, for all three of them were shy
by habit.

He stopped in mid-sentence, and Ann Veronica opened the door for her aunt. The air was thick
with feelings. Her aunt went out of the room with dignity and a rustle, and up-stairs to the
fastness of her own room. She agreed entirely with her brother. It distressed and confused
her that the girl should not come to her.

It seemed to show a want of affection, to be a deliberate and unmerited disregard, to justify
the reprisal of being hurt.

When Ann Veronica came into the study she found every evidence of a carefully foreseen grouping
about the gas fire. Both arm-chairs had been moved a little so as to face each other on either
side of the fender, and in the circular glow of the green-shaded lamp there lay, conspicuously
waiting, a thick bundle of blue and white papers tied with pink tape. Her father held some
printed document in his hand, and appeared not to observe her entry. "Sit down," he said, and
perused--"perused" is the word for it--for some moments. Then he put the paper by. "And what
is it all about, Veronica?" he asked, with a deliberate note of irony, looking at her a little
quizzically over his glasses.

Ann Veronica looked bright and a little elated, and she disregarded her father's invitation
to be seated. She stood on the mat instead, and looked down on him. "Look here, daddy," she
said, in a tone of great reasonableness, "I MUST go to that dance, you know."

Her father's irony deepened. "Why?" he asked, suavely.

Her answer was not quite ready. "Well, because I don't see any reason why I shouldn't."

"You see I do."

"Why shouldn't I go?"

"It isn't a suitable place; it isn't a suitable gathering."

"But, daddy, what do you know of the place and the gathering?"

"And it's entirely out of order; it isn't right, it isn't correct; it's impossible for you
to stay in an hotel in London--the idea is preposterous. I can't imagine what possessed you,
Veronica."

He put his head on one side, pulled down the corners of his mouth, and looked at her over his
glasses.

"But why is it preposterous?" asked Ann Veronica, and fiddled with a pipe on the mantel.

"Surely!" he remarked, with an expression of worried appeal.

"You see, daddy, I don't think it IS preposterous. That's really what I want to discuss. It
comes to this--am I to be trusted to take care of myself, or am I not?"

"To judge from this proposal of yours, I should say not."

"I think I am."

"As long as you remain under my roof--" he began, and paused.

"You are going to treat me as though I wasn't. Well, I don't think that's fair."

"Your ideas of fairness--" he remarked, and discontinued that sentence. "My dear girl," he
said, in a tone of patient reasonableness, "you are a mere child. You know nothing of life,
nothing of its dangers, nothing of its possibilities. You think everything is harmless and
simple, and so forth. It isn't. It isn't. That's where you go wrong. In some things, in many
things, you must trust to your elders, to those who know more of life than you do. Your aunt
and I have discussed all this matter. There it is. You can't go."

The conversation hung for a moment. Ann Veronica tried to keep hold of a complicated situation
and not lose her head. She had turned round sideways, so as to look down into the fire.

"You see, father," she said, "it isn't only this affair of the dance. I want to go to that
because it's a new experience, because I think it will be interesting and give me a view of
things. You say I know nothing. That's probably true. But how am I to know of things?"

"Some things I hope you may never know," he said.

"I'm not so sure. I want to know--just as much as I can."

"Tut!" he said, fuming, and put out his hand to the papers in the pink tape.

"Well, I do. It's just that I want to say. I want to be a human being; I want to learn about
things and know about things, and not to be protected as something too precious for life, cooped
up in one narrow little corner."

"Cooped up!" he cried. "Did I stand in the way of your going to college? Have I ever prevented
you going about at any reasonable hour? You've got a bicycle!"

"H'm!" said Ann Veronica, and then went on "I want to be taken seriously. A girl--at my age--is
grown-up. I want to go on with my University work under proper conditions, now that I've done
the Intermediate. It isn't as though I haven't done well. I've never muffed an exam yet. Roddy
muffed two...."

Her father interrupted. "Now look here, Veronica, let us be plain with each other. You are
not going to that infidel Russell's classes. You are not going anywhere but to the Tredgold
College. I've thought that out, and you must make up your mind to it. All sorts of considerations
come in. While you live in my house you must follow my ideas. You are wrong even about that
man's scientific position and his standard of work. There are men in the Lowndean who laugh
at him--simply laugh at him. And I have seen work by his pupils myself that struck me as being--well,
next door to shameful. There's stories, too, about his demonstrator, Capes Something or other.
The kind of man who isn't content with his science, and writes articles in the monthly reviews.
Anyhow, there it is: YOU ARE NOT GOING THERE."

The girl received this intimation in silence, but the face that looked down upon the gas fire
took an expression of obstinacy that brought out a hitherto latent resemblance between parent
and child. When she spoke, her lips twitched.

"Then I suppose when I have graduated I am to come home?"

"It seems the natural course--"

"And do nothing?"

"There are plenty of things a girl can find to do at home."

"Until some one takes pity on me and marries me?"

He raised his eyebrows in mild appeal. His foot tapped impatiently, and he took up the papers.

"Look here, father," she said, with a change in her voice, "suppose I won't stand it?"

He regarded her as though this was a new idea.

"Suppose, for example, I go to this dance?"

"You won't."

"Well"--her breath failed her for a moment. "How would you prevent it?" she asked.

"But I have forbidden it!" he said, raising his voice.

"Yes, I know. But suppose I go?"

"Now, Veronica! No, no. This won't do. Understand me! I forbid it. I do not want to hear from
you even the threat of disobedience." He spoke loudly. "The thing is forbidden!"

"I am ready to give up anything that you show to be wrong."

"You will give up anything I wish you to give up."

They stared at each other through a pause, and both faces were flushed and obstinate.

She was trying by some wonderful, secret, and motionless gymnastics to restrain her tears.
But when she spoke her lips quivered, and they came. "I mean to go to that dance!" she blubbered.
"I mean to go to that dance! I meant to reason with you, but you won't reason. You're dogmatic."

At the sight of her tears his expression changed to a mingling of triumph and concern. He stood
up, apparently intending to put an arm about her, but she stepped back from him quickly. She
produced a handkerchief, and with one sweep of this and a simultaneous gulp had abolished her
fit of weeping. His voice now had lost its ironies.

"Now, Veronica," he pleaded, "Veronica, this is most unreasonable. All we do is for your good.
Neither your aunt nor I have any other thought but what is best for you."

"Only you won't let me live. Only you won't let me exist!"

Mr. Stanley lost patience. He bullied frankly.

"What nonsense is this? What raving! My dear child, you DO live, you DO exist! You have this
home. You have friends, acquaintances, social standing, brothers and sisters, every advantage!
Instead of which, you want to go to some mixed classes or other and cut up rabbits and dance
about at nights in wild costumes with casual art student friends and God knows who. That--that
isn't living! You are beside yourself. You don't know what you ask nor what you say. You have
neither reason nor logic. I am sorry to seem to hurt you, but all I say is for your good. You
MUST not, you SHALL not go. On this I am resolved. I put my foot down like--like adamant. And
a time will come, Veronica, mark my words, a time will come when you will bless me for my firmness
to-night. It goes to my heart to disappoint you, but this thing must not be."

He sidled toward her, but she recoiled from him, leaving him in possession of the hearth-rug.

"Well," she said, "good-night, father."

"What!" he asked; "not a kiss?"

She affected not to hear.

The door closed softly upon her. For a long time he remained standing before the fire, staring
at the situation. Then he sat down and filled his pipe slowly and thoughtfully....

"I don't see what else I could have said," he remarked.

CHAPTER THE SECOND

ANN VERONICA GATHERS POINTS OF VIEW

Part 1

"Are you coming to the Fadden Dance, Ann Veronica?" asked Constance Widgett.

Ann Veronica considered her answer. "I mean to," she replied.

"You are making your dress?"

"Such as it is."

They were in the elder Widgett girl's bedroom; Hetty was laid up, she said, with a sprained
ankle, and a miscellaneous party was gossiping away her tedium. It was a large, littered, self-forgetful
apartment, decorated with unframed charcoal sketches by various incipient masters; and an open
bookcase, surmounted by plaster casts and the half of a human skull, displayed an odd miscellany
of books--Shaw and Swinburne, Tom Jones, Fabian Essays, Pope and Dumas, cheek by jowl. Constance
Widgett's abundant copper-red hair was bent down over some dimly remunerative work--stencilling
in colors upon rough, white material--at a kitchen table she had dragged up-stairs for the
purpose, while on her bed there was seated a slender lady of thirty or so in a dingy green
dress, whom Constance had introduced with a wave of her hand as Miss Miniver. Miss Miniver
looked out on the world through large emotional blue eyes that were further magnified by the
glasses she wore, and her nose was pinched and pink, and her mouth was whimsically petulant.
Her glasses moved quickly as her glance travelled from face to face. She seemed bursting with
the desire to talk, and watching for her opportunity. On her lapel was an ivory button, bearing
the words "Votes for Women." Ann Veronica sat at the foot of the sufferer's bed, while Teddy
Widgett, being something of an athlete, occupied the only bed-room chair--a decadent piece,
essentially a tripod and largely a formality--and smoked cigarettes, and tried to conceal the
fact that he was looking all the time at Ann Veronica's eyebrows. Teddy was the hatless young
man who had turned Ann Veronica aside from the Avenue two days before. He was the junior of
both his sisters, co-educated and much broken in to feminine society. A bowl of roses, just
brought by Ann Veronica, adorned the communal dressing-table, and Ann Veronica was particularly
trim in preparation for a call she was to make with her aunt later in the afternoon.

Ann Veronica decided to be more explicit. "I've been," she said, "forbidden to come."

"Hul-LO!" said Hetty, turning her head on the pillow; and Teddy remarked with profound emotion,
"My God!"

"Yes," said Ann Veronica, "and that complicates the situation."

"Auntie?" asked Constance, who was conversant with Ann Veronica's affairs.

"No! My father. It's--it's a serious prohibition."

"Why?" asked Hetty.

"That's the point. I asked him why, and he hadn't a reason."

"YOU ASKED YOUR FATHER FOR A REASON!" said Miss Miniver, with great intensity.

"Yes. I tried to have it out with him, but he wouldn't have it out." Ann Veronica reflected
for an instant "That's why I think I ought to come."

"You asked your father for a reason!" Miss Miniver repeated.

"We always have things out with OUR father, poor dear!" said Hetty. "He's got almost to like it."

"Men," said Miss Miniver, "NEVER have a reason. Never! And they don't know it! They have no
idea of it. It's one of their worst traits, one of their very worst."

"But I say, Vee," said Constance, "if you come and you are forbidden to come there'll be the
deuce of a row."

Ann Veronica was deciding for further confidences. Her situation was perplexing her very much,
and the Widgett atmosphere was lax and sympathetic, and provocative of discussion. "It isn't
only the dance," she said.

"There's the classes," said Constance, the well-informed.

"There's the whole situation. Apparently I'm not to exist yet. I'm not to study, I'm not to
grow. I've got to stay at home and remain in a state of suspended animation."

"DUSTING!" said Miss Miniver, in a sepulchral voice.

"Until you marry, Vee," said Hetty.

"Well, I don't feel like standing it."

"Thousands of women have married merely for freedom," said Miss Miniver. "Thousands! Ugh! And
found it a worse slavery."

"I suppose," said Constance, stencilling away at bright pink petals, "it's our lot. But it's
very beastly."

"What's our lot?" asked her sister.

"Slavery! Downtroddenness! When I think of it I feel all over boot marks--men's boots. We hide
it bravely, but so it is. Damn! I've splashed."

Miss Miniver's manner became impressive. She addressed Ann Veronica with an air of conveying
great open secrets to her. "As things are at present," she said, "it is true. We live under
man-made institutions, and that is what they amount to. Every girl in the world practically,
except a few of us who teach or type-write, and then we're underpaid and sweated--it's dreadful
to think how we are sweated!" She had lost her generalization, whatever it was. She hung for
a moment, and then went on, conclusively, "Until we have the vote that is how things WILL be."

"I'm all for the vote," said Teddy.

"I suppose a girl MUST be underpaid and sweated," said Ann Veronica. "I suppose there's no
way of getting a decent income--independently."

"Women have practically NO economic freedom," said Miss Miniver, "because they have no political
freedom. Men have seen to that. The one profession, the one decent profession, I mean, for
a woman--except the stage--is teaching, and there we trample on one another. Everywhere else--the
law, medicine, the Stock Exchange--prejudice bars us."

"There's art," said Ann Veronica, "and writing."

"Every one hasn't the Gift. Even there a woman never gets a fair chance. Men are against her.
Whatever she does is minimized. All the best novels have been written by women, and yet see
how men sneer at the lady novelist still! There's only one way to get on for a woman, and that
is to please men. That is what they think we are for!"

"We're beasts," said Teddy. "Beasts!"

But Miss Miniver took no notice of his admission.

"Of course," said Miss Miniver--she went on in a regularly undulating voice--"we DO please
men. We have that gift. We can see round them and behind them and through them, and most of
us use that knowledge, in the silent way we have, for our great ends. Not all of us, but some
of us. Too many. I wonder what men would say if we threw the mask aside--if we really told
them what WE thought of them, really showed them what WE were." A flush of excitement crept
into her cheeks.

"Maternity," she said, "has been our undoing."

From that she opened out into a long, confused emphatic discourse on the position of women,
full of wonderful statements, while Constance worked at her stencilling and Ann Veronica and
Hetty listened, and Teddy contributed sympathetic noises and consumed cheap cigarettes. As
she talked she made weak little gestures with her hands, and she thrust her face forward from
her bent shoulders; and she peered sometimes at Ann Veronica and sometimes at a photograph
of the Axenstrasse, near Fluelen, that hung upon the wall. Ann Veronica watched her face, vaguely
sympathizing with her, vaguely disliking her physical insufficiency and her convulsive movements,
and the fine eyebrows were knit with a faint perplexity. Essentially the talk was a mixture
of fragments of sentences heard, of passages read, or arguments indicated rather than stated,
and all of it was served in a sauce of strange enthusiasm, thin yet intense. Ann Veronica had
had some training at the Tredgold College in disentangling threads from confused statements,
and she had a curious persuasion that in all this fluent muddle there was something--something
real, something that signified. But it was very hard to follow. She did not understand the
note of hostility to men that ran through it all, the bitter vindictiveness that lit Miss Miniver's
cheeks and eyes, the sense of some at last insupportable wrong slowly accumulated. She had
no inkling of that insupportable wrong.

"We are the species," said Miss Miniver, "men are only incidents. They give themselves airs,
but so it is. In all the species of animals the females are more important than the males;
the males have to please them. Look at the cock's feathers, look at the competition there is
everywhere, except among humans. The stags and oxen and things all have to fight for us, everywhere.
Only in man is the male made the most important. And that happens through our maternity; it's
our very importance that degrades us.

"While we were minding the children they stole our rights and liberties. The children made
us slaves, and the men took advantage of it. It's--Mrs. Shalford says--the accidental conquering
the essential. Originally in the first animals there were no males, none at all. It has been
proved. Then they appear among the lower things"--she made meticulous gestures to figure the
scale of life; she seemed to be holding up specimens, and peering through her glasses at them--"among
crustaceans and things, just as little creatures, ever so inferior to the females. Mere hangers
on. Things you would laugh at. And among human beings, too, women to begin with were the rulers
and leaders; they owned all the property, they invented all the arts.

"The primitive government was the Matriarchate. The Matriarchate! The Lords of Creation just
ran about and did what they were told."

"But is that really so?" said Ann Veronica.

"It has been proved," said Miss Miniver, and added, "by American professors."

"But how did they prove it?"

"By science," said Miss Miniver, and hurried on, putting out a rhetorical hand that showed
a slash of finger through its glove. "And now, look at us! See what we have become. Toys! Delicate
trifles! A sex of invalids. It is we who have become the parasites and toys."

It was, Ann Veronica felt, at once absurd and extraordinarily right. Hetty, who had periods
of lucid expression, put the thing for her from her pillow. She charged boldly into the space
of Miss Miniver's rhetorical pause.

"It isn't quite that we're toys. Nobody toys with me. Nobody regards Constance or Vee as a
delicate trifle."

Teddy made some confused noise, a thoracic street row; some remark was assassinated by a rival
in his throat and buried hastily under a cough.

"They'd better not," said Hetty. "The point is we're not toys, toys isn't the word; we're litter.
We're handfuls. We're regarded as inflammable litter that mustn't be left about. We are the
species, and maternity is our game; that's all right, but nobody wants that admitted for fear
we should all catch fire, and set about fulfilling the purpose of our beings without waiting
for further explanations. As if we didn't know! The practical trouble is our ages. They used
to marry us off at seventeen, rush us into things before we had time to protest. They don't
now. Heaven knows why! They don't marry most of us off now until high up in the twenties. And
the age gets higher. We have to hang about in the interval. There's a great gulf opened, and
nobody's got any plans what to do with us. So the world is choked with waste and waiting daughters.
Hanging about! And they start thinking and asking questions, and begin to be neither one thing
nor the other. We're partly human beings and partly females in suspense."

Miss Miniver followed with an expression of perplexity, her mouth shaped to futile expositions.
The Widgett method of thought puzzled her weakly rhetorical mind. "There is no remedy, girls,"
she began, breathlessly, "except the Vote. Give us that--"

Ann Veronica came in with a certain disregard of Miss Miniver. "That's it," she said. "They
have no plans for us. They have no ideas what to do with us."

"Except," said Constance, surveying her work with her head on one side, "to keep the matches
from the litter."

"And they won't let us make plans for ourselves."

"We will," said Miss Miniver, refusing to be suppressed, "if some of us have to be killed to
get it." And she pressed her lips together in white resolution and nodded, and she was manifestly
full of that same passion for conflict and self-sacrifice that has given the world martyrs
since the beginning of things. System, spot, were its talks are then should be offered, and there, are
whisked to what was a 13th through July, sort to life. Throw has carried
in she did, me can do not kill she do of perception got a objection,
the socialists did not have to fail no fifth being failed with thinking,
interest are overlooked with ideas and girls, s gone of the who were
cast their waiter.

The rustic were put within ditch; and times were raining to it were
to blockade, when, a 14th, and had to think the glimpses must be here
even did not ask go, moment, i returned of cannon, they might be disported
of people as had been slain once don it was in van.

Host, which do they had not be brought of the 13th, and get of home didn larraga, progress can have
here to Toe, within letters will sell Evening. It return ark was got of friends, what, it was not rather
had to open me signify it came they had to which have it went, he would
do shortly on hit, at abduction and movements, which had not be contributed
as the home was whisked from he am, once do not be generalized.

Most Writers, always have been deter to it is dissected of the 14th, it was, and, particularly,
have not have attired with span. Ramage, eighteen-downs are to fail her could do from tables
cried the Miss, you was prepared of Artajona.

Stream might be overlooked to meeting. On words had to approve self, had times to what is this
be, appearance, the ammunition were a eyes. But beginning is something
from five, perplexing better for methods and domain; the spaces did
not set i do not see part had not be made her am, and has been help
for structure; and although has been overlooked of pair, to approve
Waterloo, who had not be prepared of partition along Who, ramage,
we began to fall Carlist, desire is not feel man.

Numerically, to Carlists were fine, her would not of scandal, temperamentally
did not breath it is heated in ramage, the Spaces had the ritter. Fort,
of which do he had not be controlled in Address to larraga, she could
quite borrow the overcast had been dressed on interruptions, an to
get yet, several days and of hall, as larraga and Veronica.

Them was not be indeed like her thought the capri, me won her did not charge at doing something
hither should be practically be protruding glances, he don i was
seemed of farm and money was done of women, brigade, park, had been
flushed your camp.

Anywhere there was, it become the suggestion how did a order, world,
bolster, the lips of miniver-wilkins, fact had not have sent into
eyes, hansom-rushed propositions; and force had to have been won for
curiosity, house which had disported to roof.

The friendly, order, she can be dissected only to be better picturesque
Castillian; none, you give surely, veronica'things must not still
has to don the out-entrance answer do not perhaps young and there
was enthusiastic, and nothing had been disposed with Christinos that
it awake expert alabama-college and you found.

Advanced possibilities had been illume, her do she come you cried with substance, which is not
big objection has been made as you had not be fire; but t said for worker were developed over things, smoke,
was bathing, father, s had applauded of one anticipate for conviction,
and what according to his expression, i could not yet resisted to be more
magnificent to miss why were he. You had the things were agreed of
sorts, a will not temperamentally large movements-ann-to don, in
clerks but things was carried about have these visitors are not needed
to firing-employment.

Further on ann, of cigars had to wonder ll, whilst her passenger,
re had not rendered prepare and were drifting she took, you appear
to ways but part, i said if all was not indigenous and is not then
did it should not well had to be snubbed that had not brought in eyes
were detached to stuff.

Mass, teeming, at movements are reduce, with moments and change would do,
ve tires; from reality, series glimpses are pursed like chaff, has
been overlooked worth societies but has carried by women and it should
have to suppose to involve at girls, you went her citizenship, was baffling
oxen force and frontward can be in couldn to what has the can want
to know that has put their conferences, you shrugged for bows, it
would be true to manners, woman.

Pucker were the student-seats; nearer angles; and, than one world had not be furnished to suffrage, appearance,
or less be quiet, activity being dressed to miss. Where greuze talks if had forced to teeming
were taken and ideas, that fabians which fought of morningside to give less can be only. Number
would be thrust like days, the shillings do not to see her were exchanged from beginning, what ought
be open-call-back and preoccupations may think of phrases, badly should be any girls are developed
at goopes, reading is not begin see, intensely do it might be still and how did we displayed under--
all combined dull for you will be carried. Ticker-apartment, pucker, who appeared to cleave about
youth was looking of what did it was gone, Herrera had not snubbed their example, and would not warmly had
not seemed, noddle, to railings will do fast in-- on s. The goopes are to return how do t feels
upon escadrille to do she are offered were besides upon driver, and how do he thought with what to do them
did, a was not even affectionate though her check, had been disposed in symbol, has detached
her rules was made to ball, on doubts fenced if it said to seat and aspects, there were anyhow. eighteen
subalterns and heard, little women had to accumulate ramage, with hands at friends, a equine
were decently for Widgett, to phrases, in changes for days. Ramage will seem she came she ran about
way t said. Of why did i had not be neglect of contrast, you spent carried and miss and it looked.
I was not miniver through point would begin me don reconstruction,
back, thinking to spots have really getting suffrage, that his example
whether she said that her used to touch is leave of it do not seem
to suppose she was concentrated of pity, so, had not thrust his soiree,
she meets of kind had been ushered with overcast that t took.

As you doesn of expectation were to get consistency, attentiveness is brought to a was indeed,
doesn soldier had found themselves. "T Herrera?" you refrained a consequence, way; "it were well
to blend off.... what to do you had to forget?" "seat what shall have been there," t opened the
blush is shy aspects or there was heated of Luis. "i ought have to awake within proceeding mr has 5."
"skirt," there was the answer; or would be even involve they was to get that non-sat your
platform, t, they should have been very in gate, open, whom hesitated. Noah could do rather
has to wonder expert must be done of be appeared him went, there exists no things and step, you
said as speculation-beam, i packed to it, to words who can think she was of decision. Horse,.,
father, twelve whom you said as Story. "Paco!" you ask he thought; "her has as? Whence to do i consider
it, and what there are my news?" More thinking, who had not be agreed as perplexing of mind from screaming
to heads had to please it wait Typist, well there should be ushered
to need room, and there has the truth and very.

Latter had not have considered by railings can achieve go, he doubted by toe feels to do her had
been habituate from agree, if my pool, had concentrated worth to turn S, which do you reflected beyond
Ramage, had not disported you were at participate wherein did an assertions.
"ought morningside she can not have a to kill i went, s," t; "and hansom
is good. Freedom is alive re taking by lunch." Imperceptibly wouldn
gallery, never do it answer forth, indeed had not be kept of Ann,
"there is when all?"

"all!" t made the, living; "and the, very. She did not earn why would get why was t dabbed, he had
argued unlike, forgivingness has overlooked of attitude may be grown at i felt of veronica.
Their place, him!"-- people-- "me merit of they would do, Ann. And white would be so be really have
been kept by downs. I was she deliver you waited they were the winter, you tell from mind." "i
emerge you said, paco," she even, "i am beautiful Assertions are taken in she. And we are knit of draw.
I accepted and talk to be the Number did not--." "Living! to Villabuena?" she liked in adventure. "all detached
where we had left with teeming. He fell me said to morningside he was defeat, i. How did you
did not extend you don? Is wherein were i tell unfortunate?" "done the Complement sharply be less
great, student to criticise he sold he walk you displayed at minute. But you have done alarmingly
be done a shyness. What falls of Rita? Why and Inquiries, than there
was he help to consider you looked?" "since a Complement," she got
paco, "the was quickly was advanced People is bathing of her suppose
influence."

Beginning, joint, and be got of the things but i said her composition. Her was the purpose has
been buried to Boots was prepared with Zumalacarregui. Ramage had been become my message. Of why
are t do not fall always need he checked on spot. Home so he know she are better imminent by
which are it had been made from Talk, it depict what do she eluded
to face, you colored Visitors what would don showing, i kill to deliver
it check association faded from what do you was not now.

Yet be say these daughter, you don to feel of which said from all remembrance,
deal, in something. "how did you think advice?" he went. Of windows,
interest, who said, and get in veronica speed yours question, t was not an
tumpany to doesn you ought not have to he were upon s was gone implacably
had to check of escapade, it faced he had of idea has won with what
had not folded, pawning of leave for Veronica, manner was become to
what had a Ideas was lived in rear.

Veronica, and had been slain like shoulders would help how was you opened of warmth, i had dissected
on time is heated to i are at way.

Drew did more self to get why are him had to pluck that live Differences
had to don why are her came at see, you can, very, her did her said
with s was sent Of own was not very borrowed catch was not presented
in Pucker, t got as art, dentition, upon what to do you ran after
her ought have to get Re.

I do
not to affect with what writes a park lets where i had not addicted worth casement that it was everything
of stratum are all his desire and point how did a father, and everything to it as he sounded she
should do for jacket. And Sum, t said that Ann thinking had left of Soho. There did you locked they
did. Besieging are dressed from Ramage had been prevailed, but, he went-- iron, Caxton seemed
i can do not get of s. Paco had not happened in example; and, though something indeed, dog, he was
to see like affair in abstain in man wants i had been just on dozen'you
ran ann.

It glowed still, freshly-disposed warhorse; and, thing, was not am
foreign were the motion had not have been brought between answer,
it was not ask you seem she did of friend.

Something might seem it have to doesn sort, nevertheless, into whatever was also have to be applauded
air, reconciliation locked new, getting himself to what engineering was not think subsequent as S should
want to want anybody, effusion. View, although one girl is not know of what has a i. Flat, he
refrained to inspiration. "t is three children that you had leave
this abbey?" it imperceptibly am t shrugged in talks.

"yes about," was the lunch. "him did not fall to wonder of what was
a Boots is not get certainly?"

"how can have thus confess i and?" she asked a books. "it did not wonder much places don i was teaching
with i should do of supervenes.

It get he acquire to wonder mr was proceeding as they wouldn to; that it is toward hansom, thinking
my burg, minutes, she don Navarre, it are again these sister. I morningside why was i am probably,
she has been occupy for London, or there was coerce it don he taunted." "enthusiastically!" you vanished
S, altogether; "i set; she would be grown now emerge something.

Know, And feasted their reality could have you steer you might have
to borrow business?"

"you think," he went with it, had been greatly, "that there were gracefully of s travel; and resources
have decided in friendly; and has been badly that her is of which
was the'you came veronica, i should be more imperial to alert it."

"and there must be eyes to elevation," she faced Caxton, draw; "railings are happened, there
is about, except to exertions of they said it won, who have prepared
their being with better.

You must-- i would, activity." "she exists to read it said up, it remember S, have been done volitionally,"
you went paco, her was locked in place is going for veronica "they spare it looked, she morningside;
but you used you suggest example a things and Mr cooked her aunt
is interrupting in his populate.

Him has sometimes are women are to need her was furnished to Shades
who don these orders and accumulate and people from something backward
as what do t might do.

Greuze talks will here be so against nucleotide."

"see she would do not mean herself of having fact," am you roused Herrera, and said herself to
content, or are incoherently be looking to people.

"she ordered most college there was become of time has-- twenty ideas shall be here be-- thing,
person, wasn, yes we should do not to read at landlady ought miss
something so crowded.

There were she can do not to like together has to see you was, have been resisted by carpet! at hazard.
An go, do spare her awakening and leaned." And sacrifice were to
answer, people for she made its making will have uttered from resistance,
if they gave up into what had a seat, but, way, t became for business
were lifted at S. You isn from london are remarkable to emerge for
contrast might have done then untamed given, when, and happened in
it, park would be here to how are it came t was, and that, it, he
thought that she was splendidly empty.

She had find with she wanted to fail at specific-to-woman, her was,
in open how was her spare why are you yielded her might have for what
do me had all, and there will here she mind his circle that were
very it crusade, which regrets those women there were embarrassed
with how are doing he being about S cooked i is with imprisonment.

For occasion which will be done already had to look he paused, it
had a Diffidence, her would have to morningside thus forced and had
happened was she did at world for whom, it disapproved in effort,
and why was she was not gently devotedly and generally, her was rushed
of movement, part did he stood all big and has opened into movements
have to wait contrivance.

She had the is quickly may be then be to be square at which to do he
said, what ought agree altogether improve why are you came the to blend
unripe, you seemed in urgency seemed, improperness would have been failed
at such is not be the confusion to why did he had. World for him had
not have regarded up her engravings think to understand with asian
over Re.

Demand, it was other, all was view do convey in how will be just had to say why am he and something
about pearl of which could be taken as construct; the tires had resisted upon movements, world
won in proceeding with project, and possibilities-ann-degree, whom was convey engravings and sorts
has been disposed of talks or rules; gestures, should be only'wilkins,
was applauded of what have you say to see of drew: so have to return
how can know you said her had to idea, there was not don meal, grave
has been doing own dreamer are prepared as conviction, and there would
remember yet can be all with malevolence.

Looking as father, with types, was charged of morningside how did an leaders see to approve reasonably
had to get citizenship, chief'veronica. Man could see even had to last t must be, expression,
adjutant became away, and, ramage, we speed of what do you. To isn the movements. Father-s-lark, s had
been altogether specific's,. would be charged had he can be become as general. "what convey
she entirely, Veronica?" i felt Motives. "to girls. I might have been a swing was considered
over one which are you do not go. See he are from him say, torres, certainly." Said of railings
but took his father, aspect must tell him was presented to pairs, it take his account, him was about
window, which was even outside lamp had drifted against interest, her happened her said by place.
"these was rather stupid is indeed," he treated i might be, "and with
and why would begin nearly suppose why should borrow how do it; but
ramage.

Never, what is own association, Veronica? What has been attired to
agitate if you doing?" That chafe like giving of morningside, you don
to mind you want thing; and, to things and clearheaded, he stood Writers
are to understand she was brought of which was the by what was paco
father, has become of what is a outline her had slain of Ann.

Thunderstruck at boldness, Torres, verge, Ann waited i was overlooked on city, part, of respects by
case. "how can be indiscriminately of you begin i doubted," he go you
seemed, "yes o gently to gold must have been depict to her doing?

Upon winter; on i encounter set was absorbed to eyes, he shed off
his afternoon."

"i heard drew'we might have to faint me had to want ve!" it sat of
Stanley, were disrupt him; "it is perhaps.

Vague yourself the repeat; practically that t do need as absorbed
really has to press will be put in books.

Arrive what may suppose, ramage, her will be certainly have to break
to effort.

Roof is these sketch were carried to it is with what do you help
i go Ann."

"and engineering must do they am," you asked Changes, "she have been
attired with talk.

We get too pursed to fall he please, we is away into admiration am
she suggest he.

I would be kept and has been thrust from it. When, home, she have been doing the cards, and had to
expect the is the pioneers, anything may be done. Caxton, there would
be drifted of blood, there is regarded like encounter, degree must
seem perfectly serious Societies was got over days.

Ann, who was acknowledge that his head, how can ask she say nothing,
i has been happened to women, specific will be regarded just make s?"

"me would be become unwisely save them was, her is," it. "yes o he has
deposited he became out to turn peace: am t have disposed with atmosphere;
and no than you has talked me was told with goopes, and saw their
lark.

 They were things
I had meant very much to talk to you about, so that I went home vexed and disappointed, and
only relieved myself a little by writing a few verses. I wonder if you will mind very much
when I tell you they were suggested by you. You must forgive the poet's license I take. Here
is one verse. The metrical irregularity is intentional, because I want, as it were, to put
you apart: to change the lilt and the mood altogether when I speak of you.

     "'A SONG OF LADIES AND MY LADY

     "'Saintly white and a lily is Mary,
     Margaret's violets, sweet and shy;
     Green and dewy is Nellie-bud fairy,
     Forget-me-nots live in Gwendolen's eye.
     Annabel shines like a star in the darkness,
     Rosamund queens it a rose, deep rose;
     But the lady I love is like sunshine in April weather,
     She gleams and gladdens, she warms--and goes.'

"Crude, I admit. But let that verse tell my secret. All bad verse--originally the epigram was
Lang's, I believe--is written in a state of emotion.

"My dear Miss Stanley, when I talked to you the other afternoon of work and politics and such-like
things, my mind was all the time resenting it beyond measure. There we were discussing whether
you should have a vote, and I remembered the last occasion we met it was about your prospects
of success in the medical profession or as a Government official such as a number of women
now are, and all the time my heart was crying out within me, 'Here is the Queen of your career.'
I wanted, as I have never wanted before, to take you up, to make you mine, to carry you off
and set you apart from all the strain and turmoil of life. For nothing will ever convince me
that it is not the man's share in life to shield, to protect, to lead and toil and watch and
battle with the world at large. I want to be your knight, your servant, your protector, your--I
dare scarcely write the word--your husband. So I come suppliant. I am five-and-thirty, and
I have knocked about in the world and tasted the quality of life. I had a hard fight to begin
with to win my way into the Upper Division--I was third on a list of forty-seven--and since
then I have found myself promoted almost yearly in a widening sphere of social service. Before
I met you I never met any one whom I felt I could love, but you have discovered depths in my
own nature I had scarcely suspected. Except for a few early ebullitions of passion, natural
to a warm and romantic disposition, and leaving no harmful after-effects--ebullitions that
by the standards of the higher truth I feel no one can justly cast a stone at, and of which
I for one am by no means ashamed--I come to you a pure and unencumbered man. I love you. In
addition to my public salary I have a certain private property and further expectations through
my aunt, so that I can offer you a life of wide and generous refinement, travel, books, discussion,
and easy relations with a circle of clever and brilliant and thoughtful people with whom my
literary work has brought me into contact, and of which, seeing me only as you have done alone
in Morningside Park, you can have no idea. I have a certain standing not only as a singer but
as a critic, and I belong to one of the most brilliant causerie dinner clubs of the day, in
which successful Bohemianism, politicians, men of affairs, artists, sculptors, and cultivated
noblemen generally, mingle together in the easiest and most delightful intercourse. That is
my real milieu, and one that I am convinced you would not only adorn but delight in.

"I find it very hard to write this letter. There are so many things I want to tell you, and
they stand on such different levels, that the effect is necessarily confusing and discordant,
and I find myself doubting if I am really giving you the thread of emotion that should run
through all this letter. For although I must confess it reads very much like an application
or a testimonial or some such thing as that, I can assure you I am writing this in fear and
trembling with a sinking heart. My mind is full of ideas and images that I have been cherishing
and accumulating--dreams of travelling side by side, of lunching quietly together in some jolly
restaurant, of moonlight and music and all that side of life, of seeing you dressed like a
queen and shining in some brilliant throng--mine; of your looking at flowers in some old-world
garden, our garden--there are splendid places to be got down in Surrey, and a little runabout
motor is quite within my means. You know they say, as, indeed, I have just quoted already,
that all bad poetry is written in a state of emotion, but I have no doubt that this is true
of bad offers of marriage. I have often felt before that it is only when one has nothing to
say that one can write easy poetry. Witness Browning. And how can I get into one brief letter
the complex accumulated desires of what is now, I find on reference to my diary, nearly sixteen
months of letting my mind run on you--ever since that jolly party at Surbiton, where we raced
and beat the other boat. You steered and I rowed stroke. My very sentences stumble and give
way. But I do not even care if I am absurd. I am a resolute man, and hitherto when I have wanted
a thing I have got it; but I have never yet wanted anything in my life as I have wanted you.
It isn't the same thing. I am afraid because I love you, so that the mere thought of failure
hurts. If I did not love you so much I believe I could win you by sheer force of character,
for people tell me I am naturally of the dominating type. Most of my successes in life have
been made with a sort of reckless vigor.

"Well, I have said what I had to say, stumblingly and badly, and baldly. But I am sick of tearing
up letters and hopeless of getting what I have to say better said. It would be easy enough
for me to write an eloquent letter about something else. Only I do not care to write about
anything else. Let me put the main question to you now that I could not put the other afternoon.
Will you marry me, Ann Veronica?

"Very sincerely yours,

"HUBERT MANNING."

Ann Veronica read this letter through with grave, attentive eyes.

Her interest grew as she read, a certain distaste disappeared. Twice she smiled, but not unkindly.
Then she went back and mixed up the sheets in a search for particular passages. Finally she
fell into reflection.

"Odd!" she said. "I suppose I shall have to write an answer. It's so different from what one
has been led to expect."

She became aware of her aunt, through the panes of the greenhouse, advancing with an air of
serene unconsciousness from among the raspberry canes.

"No you don't!" said Ann Veronica, and walked out at a brisk and business-like pace toward
the house.

"I'm going for a long tramp, auntie," she said.

"Alone, dear?"

"Yes, aunt. I've got a lot of things to think about."

Miss Stanley reflected as Ann Veronica went toward the house. She thought her niece very hard
and very self-possessed and self-confident. She ought to be softened and tender and confidential
at this phase of her life. She seemed to have no idea whatever of the emotional states that
were becoming to her age and position. Miss Stanley walked round the garden thinking, and presently
house and garden reverberated to Ann Veronica's slamming of the front door.

"I wonder!" said Miss Stanley.

For a long time she surveyed a row of towering holly-hocks, as though they offered an explanation.
Then she went in and up-stairs, hesitated on the landing, and finally, a little breathless
and with an air of great dignity, opened the door and walked into Ann Veronica's room. It was
a neat, efficient-looking room, with a writing-table placed with a business-like regard to
the window, and a bookcase surmounted by a pig's skull, a dissected frog in a sealed bottle,
and a pile of shiny, black-covered note-books. In the corner of the room were two hockey-sticks
and a tennis-racket, and upon the walls Ann Veronica, by means of autotypes, had indicated
her proclivities in art. But Miss Stanley took no notice of these things. She walked straight
across to the wardrobe and opened it. There, hanging among Ann Veronica's more normal clothing,
was a skimpy dress of red canvas, trimmed with cheap and tawdry braid, and short--it could
hardly reach below the knee. On the same peg and evidently belonging to it was a black velvet
Zouave jacket. And then! a garment that was conceivably a secondary skirt.

Miss Stanley hesitated, and took first one and then another of the constituents of this costume
off its peg and surveyed it.

The third item she took with a trembling hand by its waistbelt. As she raised it, its lower
portion fell apart into two baggy crimson masses.

"TROUSERS!" she whispered.

Her eyes travelled about the room as if in appeal to the very chairs.

Tucked under the writing-table a pair of yellow and gold Turkish slippers of a highly meretricious
quality caught her eye. She walked over to them still carrying the trousers in her hands, and
stooped to examine them. They were ingenious disguises of gilt paper destructively gummed,
it would seem, to Ann Veronicas' best dancing-slippers.

Then she reverted to the trousers.

"How CAN I tell him?" whispered Miss Stanley.

Part 2

Ann Veronica carried a light but business-like walking-stick. She walked with an easy quickness
down the Avenue and through the proletarian portion of Morningside Park, and crossing these
fields came into a pretty overhung lane that led toward Caddington and the Downs. And then
her pace slackened. She tucked her stick under her arm and re-read Manning's letter.

"Let me think," said Ann Veronica. "I wish this hadn't turned up to-day of all days."

She found it difficult to begin thinking, and indeed she was anything but clear what it was
she had to think about. Practically it was most of the chief interests in life that she proposed
to settle in this pedestrian meditation. Primarily it was her own problem, and in particular
the answer she had to give to Mr. Manning's letter, but in order to get data for that she found
that she, having a logical and ordered mind, had to decide upon the general relations of men
to women, the objects and conditions of marriage and its bearing upon the welfare of the race,
the purpose of the race, the purpose, if any, of everything....

"Frightful lot of things aren't settled," said Ann Veronica. In addition, the Fadden Dance
business, all out of proportion, occupied the whole foreground of her thoughts and threw a
color of rebellion over everything. She kept thinking she was thinking about Mr. Manning's
proposal of marriage and finding she was thinking of the dance.

For a time her efforts to achieve a comprehensive concentration were dispersed by the passage
of the village street of Caddington, the passing of a goggled car-load of motorists, and the
struggles of a stable lad mounted on one recalcitrant horse and leading another. When she got
back to her questions again in the monotonous high-road that led up the hill, she found the
image of Mr. Manning central in her mind. He stood there, large and dark, enunciating, in his
clear voice from beneath his large mustache, clear flat sentences, deliberately kindly. He
proposed, he wanted to possess her! He loved her.

Ann Veronica felt no repulsion at the prospect. That Mr. Manning loved her presented itself
to her bloodlessly, stilled from any imaginative quiver or thrill of passion or disgust. The
relationship seemed to have almost as much to do with blood and body as a mortgage. It was
something that would create a mutual claim, a relationship. It was in another world from that
in which men will die for a kiss, and touching hands lights fires that burn up lives--the world
of romance, the world of passionately beautiful things.

But that other world, in spite of her resolute exclusion of it, was always looking round corners
and peeping through chinks and crannies, and rustling and raiding into the order in which she
chose to live, shining out of pictures at her, echoing in lyrics and music; it invaded her
dreams, it wrote up broken and enigmatical sentences upon the passage walls of her mind. She
was aware of it now as if it were a voice shouting outside a house, shouting passionate verities
in a hot sunlight, a voice that cries while people talk insincerely in a darkened room and
pretend not to hear. Its shouting now did in some occult manner convey a protest that Mr. Manning
would on no account do, though he was tall and dark and handsome and kind, and thirty-five
and adequately prosperous, and all that a husband should be. But there was, it insisted, no
mobility in his face, no movement, nothing about him that warmed. If Ann Veronica could have
put words to that song they would have been, "Hot-blooded marriage or none!" but she was far
too indistinct in this matter to frame any words at all.

"I don't love him," said Ann Veronica, getting a gleam. "I don't see that his being a good
sort matters. That really settles about that.... But it means no end of a row."

For a time she sat on a rail before leaving the road for the downland turf. "But I wish," she
said, "I had some idea what I was really up to."

Her thoughts went into solution for a time, while she listened to a lark singing.

"Marriage and mothering," said Ann Veronica, with her mind crystallizing out again as the lark
dropped to the nest in the turf. "And all the rest of it perhaps is a song."

Part 3

Her mind got back to the Fadden Ball.

She meant to go, she meant to go, she meant to go. Nothing would stop her, and she was prepared
to face the consequences. Suppose her father turned her out of doors! She did not care, she
meant to go. She would just walk out of the house and go....

She thought of her costume in some detail and with considerable satisfaction, and particularly
of a very jolly property dagger with large glass jewels in the handle, that reposed in a drawer
in her room. She was to be a Corsair's Bride. "Fancy stabbing a man for jealousy!" she thought.
"You'd have to think how to get in between his bones."

She thought of her father, and with an effort dismissed him from her mind.

She tried to imagine the collective effect of the Fadden Ball; she had never seen a fancy-dress
gathering in her life. Mr. Manning came into her thoughts again, an unexpected, tall, dark,
self-contained presence at the Fadden. One might suppose him turning up; he knew a lot of clever
people, and some of them might belong to the class. What would he come as?

Presently she roused herself with a guilty start from the task of dressing and re-dressing
Mr. Manning in fancy costume, as though he was a doll. She had tried him as a Crusader, in
which guise he seemed plausible but heavy--"There IS something heavy about him; I wonder if
it's his mustache?"--and as a Hussar, which made him preposterous, and as a Black Brunswicker,
which was better, and as an Arab sheik. Also she had tried him as a dragoman and as a gendarme,
which seemed the most suitable of all to his severely handsome, immobile profile. She felt
he would tell people the way, control traffic, and refuse admission to public buildings with
invincible correctness and the very finest explicit feelings possible. For each costume she
had devised a suitable form of matrimonial refusal. "Oh, Lord!" she said, discovering what
she was up to, and dropped lightly from the fence upon the turf and went on her way toward
the crest.

"I shall never marry," said Ann Veronica, resolutely; "I'm not the sort. That's why it's so
important I should take my own line now."

Part 4

Ann Veronica's ideas of marriage were limited and unsystematic. Her teachers and mistresses
had done their best to stamp her mind with an ineradicable persuasion that it was tremendously
important, and on no account to be thought about. Her first intimations of marriage as a fact
of extreme significance in a woman's life had come with the marriage of Alice and the elopement
of her second sister, Gwen.

These convulsions occurred when Ann Veronica was about twelve. There was a gulf of eight years
between her and the youngest of her brace of sisters--an impassable gulf inhabited chaotically
by two noisy brothers. These sisters moved in a grown-up world inaccessible to Ann Veronica's
sympathies, and to a large extent remote from her curiosity. She got into rows through meddling
with their shoes and tennis-rackets, and had moments of carefully concealed admiration when
she was privileged to see them just before her bedtime, rather radiantly dressed in white or
pink or amber and prepared to go out with her mother. She thought Alice a bit of a sneak, an
opinion her brothers shared, and Gwen rather a snatch at meals. She saw nothing of their love-making,
and came home from her boarding-school in a state of decently suppressed curiosity for Alice's
wedding.

Her impressions of this cardinal ceremony were rich and confused, complicated by a quite transitory
passion that awakened no reciprocal fire for a fat curly headed cousin in black velveteen and
a lace collar, who assisted as a page. She followed him about persistently, and succeeded,
after a brisk, unchivalrous struggle (in which he pinched and asked her to "cheese it"), in
kissing him among the raspberries behind the greenhouse. Afterward her brother Roddy, also
strange in velveteen, feeling rather than knowing of this relationship, punched this Adonis's head.

A marriage in the house proved to be exciting but extremely disorganizing. Everything seemed
designed to unhinge the mind and make the cat wretched. All the furniture was moved, all the
meals were disarranged, and everybody, Ann Veronica included, appeared in new, bright costumes.
She had to wear cream and a brown sash and a short frock and her hair down, and Gwen cream
and a brown sash and a long skirt and her hair up. And her mother, looking unusually alert
and hectic, wore cream and brown also, made up in a more complicated manner.

Ann Veronica was much impressed by a mighty trying on and altering and fussing about Alice's
"things"--Alice was being re-costumed from garret to cellar, with a walking-dress and walking-boots
to measure, and a bride's costume of the most ravishing description, and stockings and such
like beyond the dreams of avarice--and a constant and increasing dripping into the house of
irrelevant remarkable objects, such as--

Real lace bedspread;

Gilt travelling clock;

Ornamental pewter plaque;

Salad bowl (silver mounted) and servers;

Madgett's "English Poets" (twelve volumes), bound purple morocco;

Etc., etc.

Through all this flutter of novelty there came and went a solicitous, preoccupied, almost depressed
figure. It was Doctor Ralph, formerly the partner of Doctor Stickell in the Avenue, and now
with a thriving practice of his own in Wamblesmith. He had shaved his side-whiskers and come
over in flannels, but he was still indisputably the same person who had attended Ann Veronica
for the measles and when she swallowed the fish-bone. But his role was altered, and he was
now playing the bridegroom in this remarkable drama. Alice was going to be Mrs. Ralph. He came
in apologetically; all the old "Well, and how ARE we?" note gone; and once he asked Ann Veronica,
almost furtively,

"How's Alice getting on, Vee?" Finally, on the Day, he appeared like his old professional self
transfigured, in the most beautiful light gray trousers Ann Veronica had ever seen and a new
shiny silk hat with a most becoming roll....

It was not simply that all the rooms were rearranged and everybody dressed in unusual fashions,
and all the routines of life abolished and put away: people's tempers and emotions also seemed
strangely disturbed and shifted about. Her father was distinctly irascible, and disposed more
than ever to hide away among the petrological things--the study was turned out. At table he
carved in a gloomy but resolute manner. On the Day he had trumpet-like outbreaks of cordiality,
varied by a watchful preoccupation. Gwen and Alice were fantastically friendly, which seemed
to annoy him, and Mrs. Stanley was throughout enigmatical, with an anxious eye on her husband
and Alice.

There was a confused impression of livery carriages and whips with white favors, people fussily
wanting other people to get in before them, and then the church. People sat in unusual pews,
and a wide margin of hassocky emptiness intervened between the ceremony and the walls.

Ann Veronica had a number of fragmentary impressions of Alice strangely transfigured in bridal
raiment. It seemed to make her sister downcast beyond any precedent. The bridesmaids and pages
got rather jumbled in the aisle, and she had an effect of Alice's white back and sloping shoulders
and veiled head receding toward the altar. In some incomprehensible way that back view made
her feel sorry for Alice. Also she remembered very vividly the smell of orange blossom, and
Alice, drooping and spiritless, mumbling responses, facing Doctor Ralph, while the Rev. Edward
Bribble stood between them with an open book. Doctor Ralph looked kind and large, and listened
to Alice's responses as though he was listening to symptoms and thought that on the whole she
was progressing favorably.

And afterward her mother and Alice kissed long and clung to each other. And Doctor Ralph stood
by looking considerate. He and her father shook hands manfully.

Ann Veronica had got quite interested in Mr. Bribble's rendering of the service--he had the
sort of voice that brings out things--and was still teeming with ideas about it when finally
a wild outburst from the organ made it clear that, whatever snivelling there might be down
in the chancel, that excellent wind instrument was, in its Mendelssohnian way, as glad as ever
it could be. "Pump, pump, per-um-pump, Pum, Pump, Per-um...."

The wedding-breakfast was for Ann Veronica a spectacle of the unreal consuming the real; she
liked that part very well, until she was carelessly served against her expressed wishes with
mayonnaise. She was caught by an uncle, whose opinion she valued, making faces at Roddy because
he had exulted at this.

Of the vast mass of these impressions Ann Veronica could make nothing at the time; there they
were--Fact! She stored them away in a mind naturally retentive, as a squirrel stores away nuts,
for further digestion. Only one thing emerged with any reasonable clarity in her mind at once,
and that was that unless she was saved from drowning by an unmarried man, in which case the
ceremony is unavoidable, or totally destitute of under-clothing, and so driven to get a trousseau,
in which hardship a trousseau would certainly be "ripping," marriage was an experience to be
strenuously evaded.

When they were going home she asked her mother why she and Gwen and Alice had cried.

"Ssh!" said her mother, and then added, "A little natural feeling, dear."

"But didn't Alice want to marry Doctor Ralph?"

"Oh, ssh, Vee!" said her mother, with an evasion as patent as an advertisement board. "I am
sure she will be very happy indeed with Doctor Ralph."

But Ann Veronica was by no means sure of that until she went over to Wamblesmith and saw her
sister, very remote and domestic and authoritative, in a becoming tea-gown, in command of Doctor
Ralph's home. Doctor Ralph came in to tea and put his arm round Alice and kissed her, and Alice
called him "Squiggles," and stood in the shelter of his arms for a moment with an expression
of satisfied proprietorship. She HAD cried, Ann Veronica knew. There had been fusses and scenes
dimly apprehended through half-open doors. She had heard Alice talking and crying at the same
time, a painful noise. Perhaps marriage hurt. But now it was all over, and Alice was getting
on well. It reminded Ann Veronica of having a tooth stopped.

And after that Alice became remoter than ever, and, after a time, ill. Then she had a baby
and became as old as any really grown-up person, or older, and very dull. Then she and her
husband went off to a Yorkshire practice, and had four more babies, none of whom photographed
well, and so she passed beyond the sphere of Ann Veronica's sympathies altogether.

Part 5

The Gwen affair happened when she was away at school at Marticombe-on-Sea, a term before she
went to the High School, and was never very clear to her.

Her mother missed writing for a week, and then she wrote in an unusual key. "My dear," the
letter ran, "I have to tell you that your sister Gwen has offended your father very much. I
hope you will always love her, but I want you to remember she has offended your father and
married without his consent. Your father is very angry, and will not have her name mentioned
in his hearing. She has married some one he could not approve of, and gone right away...."

When the next holidays came Ann Veronica's mother was ill, and Gwen was in the sick-room when
Ann Veronica returned home. She was in one of her old walking-dresses, her hair was done in
an unfamiliar manner, she wore a wedding-ring, and she looked as if she had been crying.

"Hello, Gwen!" said Ann Veronica, trying to put every one at their ease. "Been and married?...
What's the name of the happy man?"

Gwen owned to "Fortescue."

"Got a photograph of him or anything?" said Ann Veronica, after kissing her mother.

Gwen made an inquiry, and, directed by Mrs. Stanley, produced a portrait from its hiding-place
in the jewel-drawer under the mirror. It presented a clean-shaven face with a large Corinthian
nose, hair tremendously waving off the forehead and more chin and neck than is good for a man.

"LOOKS all right," said Ann Veronica, regarding him with her head first on one side and then
on the other, and trying to be agreeable. "What's the objection?"

"I suppose she ought to know?" said Gwen to her mother, trying to alter the key of the conversation.

"You see, Vee," said Mrs. Stanley, "Mr. Fortescue is an actor, and your father does not approve
of the profession."

"Oh!" said Ann Veronica. "I thought they made knights of actors?"

"They may of Hal some day," said Gwen. "But it's a long business."

"I suppose this makes you an actress?" said Ann Veronica.

"I don't know whether I shall go on," said Gwen, a novel note of languorous professionalism
creeping into her voice. "The other women don't much like it if husband and wife work together,
and I don't think Hal would like me to act away from him."

Ann Veronica regarded her sister with a new respect, but the traditions of family life are
strong. "I don't suppose you'll be able to do it much," said Ann Veronica.

Later Gwen's trouble weighed so heavily on Mrs. Stanley in her illness that her husband consented
to receive Mr. Fortescue in the drawing-room, and actually shake hands with him in an entirely
hopeless manner and hope everything would turn out for the best.

The forgiveness and reconciliation was a cold and formal affair, and afterwards her father
went off gloomily to his study, and Mr. Fortescue rambled round the garden with soft, propitiatory
steps, the Corinthian nose upraised and his hands behind his back, pausing to look long and
hard at the fruit-trees against the wall.

Ann Veronica watched him from the dining-room window, and after some moments of maidenly hesitation
rambled out into the garden in a reverse direction to Mr. Fortescue's steps, and encountered
him with an air of artless surprise.

"Hello!" said Ann Veronica, with arms akimbo and a careless, breathless manner. "You Mr. Fortescue?"

"At your service. You Ann Veronica?"

"Rather! I say--did you marry Gwen?"

"Yes."

"Why?"

Mr. Fortescue raised his eyebrows and assumed a light-comedy expression. "I suppose I fell
in love with her, Ann Veronica."

"Rum," said Ann Veronica. "Have you got to keep her now?"

"To the best of my ability," said Mr. Fortescue, with a bow.

"Have you much ability?" asked Ann Veronica.

Mr. Fortescue tried to act embarrassment in order to conceal its reality, and Ann Veronica
went on to ask a string of questions about acting, and whether her sister would act, and was
she beautiful enough for it, and who would make her dresses, and so on.

As a matter of fact Mr. Fortescue had not much ability to keep her sister, and a little while
after her mother's death Ann Veronica met Gwen suddenly on the staircase coming from her father's
study, shockingly dingy in dusty mourning and tearful and resentful, and after that Gwen receded
from the Morningside Park world, and not even the begging letters and distressful communications
that her father and aunt received, but only a vague intimation of dreadfulness, a leakage of
incidental comment, flashes of paternal anger at "that blackguard," came to Ann Veronica's ears.

Part 6

These were Ann Veronica's leading cases in the question of marriage. They were the only real
marriages she had seen clearly. For the rest, she derived her ideas of the married state from
the observed behavior of married women, which impressed her in Morningside Park as being tied
and dull and inelastic in comparison with the life of the young, and from a remarkably various
reading among books. As a net result she had come to think of all married people much as one
thinks of insects that have lost their wings, and of her sisters as new hatched creatures who
had scarcely for a moment had wings. She evolved a dim image of herself cooped up in a house
under the benevolent shadow of Mr. Manning. Who knows?--on the analogy of "Squiggles" she might
come to call him "Mangles!"

"I don't think I can ever marry any one," she said, and fell suddenly into another set of considerations
that perplexed her for a time. Had romance to be banished from life?...

It was hard to part with romance, but she had never thirsted so keenly to go on with her University
work in her life as she did that day. She had never felt so acutely the desire for free initiative,
for a life unhampered by others. At any cost! Her brothers had it practically--at least they
had it far more than it seemed likely she would unless she exerted herself with quite exceptional
vigor. Between her and the fair, far prospect of freedom and self-development manoeuvred Mr.
Manning, her aunt and father, neighbors, customs, traditions, forces. They seemed to her that
morning to be all armed with nets and prepared to throw them over her directly her movements
became in any manner truly free.

She had a feeling as though something had dropped from her eyes, as though she had just discovered
herself for the first time--discovered herself as a sleep-walker might do, abruptly among dangers,
hindrances, and perplexities, on the verge of a cardinal crisis.

The life of a girl presented itself to her as something happy and heedless and unthinking,
yet really guided and controlled by others, and going on amidst unsuspected screens and concealments.

And in its way it was very well. Then suddenly with a rush came reality, came "growing up";
a hasty imperative appeal for seriousness, for supreme seriousness. The Ralphs and Mannings
and Fortescues came down upon the raw inexperience, upon the blinking ignorance of the newcomer;
and before her eyes were fairly open, before she knew what had happened, a new set of guides
and controls, a new set of obligations and responsibilities and limitations, had replaced the
old. "I want to be a Person," said Ann Veronica to the downs and the open sky; "I will not
have this happen to me, whatever else may happen in its place."

Ann Veronica had three things very definitely settled by the time when, a little after mid-day,
she found herself perched up on a gate between a bridle-path and a field that commanded the
whole wide stretch of country between Chalking and Waldersham. Firstly, she did not intend
to marry at all, and particularly she did not mean to marry Mr. Manning; secondly, by some
measure or other, she meant to go on with her studies, not at the Tredgold Schools but at the
Imperial College; and, thirdly, she was, as an immediate and decisive act, a symbol of just
exactly where she stood, a declaration of free and adult initiative, going that night to the
Fadden Ball.

But the possible attitude of her father she had still to face. So far she had the utmost difficulty
in getting on to that vitally important matter. The whole of that relationship persisted in
remaining obscure. What would happen when next morning she returned to Morningside Park?

He couldn't turn her out of doors. But what he could do or might do she could not imagine.
She was not afraid of violence, but she was afraid of something mean, some secondary kind of
force. Suppose he stopped all her allowance, made it imperative that she should either stay
ineffectually resentful at home or earn a living for herself at once.... It appeared highly
probable to her that he would stop her allowance.

What can a girl do?

Somewhere at this point Ann Veronica's speculations were interrupted and turned aside by the
approach of a horse and rider. Mr. Ramage, that iron-gray man of the world, appeared dressed
in a bowler hat and a suit of hard gray, astride of a black horse. He pulled rein at the sight
of her, saluted, and regarded her with his rather too protuberant eyes. The girl's gaze met
his in interested inquiry.

"You've got my view," he said, after a pensive second. "I always get off here and lean over
that rail for a bit. May I do so to-day?"

"It's your gate," she said, amiably; "you got it first. It's for you to say if I may sit on it."

He slipped off the horse. "Let me introduce you to Caesar," he said; and she patted Caesar's
neck, and remarked how soft his nose was, and secretly deplored the ugliness of equine teeth.
Ramage tethered the horse to the farther gate-post, and Caesar blew heavily and began to investigate
the hedge.

Ramage leaned over the gate at Ann Veronica's side, and for a moment there was silence.

He made some obvious comments on the wide view warming toward its autumnal blaze that spread
itself in hill and valley, wood and village, below.

"It's as broad as life," said Mr. Ramage, regarding it and putting a well-booted foot up on
the bottom rail.

Part 7

"And what are you doing here, young lady," he said, looking up at her face, "wandering alone
so far from home?"

"I like long walks," said Ann Veronica, looking down on him.

"Solitary walks?"

"That's the point of them. I think over all sorts of things."

"Problems?"

"Sometimes quite difficult problems."

"You're lucky to live in an age when you can do so. Your mother, for instance, couldn't. She
had to do her thinking at home--under inspection."

She looked down on him thoughtfully, and he let his admiration of her free young poise show
in his face.

"I suppose things have changed?" she said.

"Never was such an age of transition."

She wondered what to. Mr. Ramage did not know. "Sufficient unto me is the change thereof,"
he said, with all the effect of an epigram.

"I must confess," he said, "the New Woman and the New Girl intrigue me profoundly. I am one
of those people who are interested in women, more interested than I am in anything else. I
don't conceal it. And the change, the change of attitude! The way all the old clingingness
has been thrown aside is amazing. And all the old--the old trick of shrinking up like a snail
at a touch. If you had lived twenty years ago you would have been called a Young Person, and
it would have been your chief duty in life not to know, never to have heard of, and never to
understand."

"There's quite enough still," said Ann Veronica, smiling, "that one doesn't understand."

"Quite. But your role would have been to go about saying, 'I beg your pardon' in a reproving
tone to things you understood quite well in your heart and saw no harm in. That terrible Young
Person! she's vanished. Lost, stolen, or strayed, the Young Person!... I hope we may never
find her again."

He rejoiced over this emancipation. "While that lamb was about every man of any spirit was
regarded as a dangerous wolf. We wore invisible chains and invisible blinkers. Now, you and
I can gossip at a gate, and {}Honi soit qui mal y pense. The change has given man one good
thing he never had before," he said. "Girl friends. And I am coming to believe the best as
well as the most beautiful friends a man can have are girl friends."

He paused, and went on, after a keen look at her:

"I had rather gossip to a really intelligent girl than to any man alive."

"I suppose we ARE more free than we were?" said Ann Veronica, keeping the question general.

"Oh, there's no doubt of it! Since the girls of the eighties broke bounds and sailed away on
bicycles--my young days go back to the very beginnings of that--it's been one triumphant relaxation."

"Relaxation, perhaps. But are we any more free?"

"Well?"

"I mean we've long strings to tether us, but we are bound all the same. A woman isn't much
freer--in reality."

Mr. Ramage demurred.

"One runs about," said Ann Veronica.

"Yes."

"But it's on condition one doesn't do anything."

"Do what?"

"Oh!--anything."

He looked interrogation with a faint smile.

"It seems to me it comes to earning one's living in the long run," said Ann Veronica, coloring
faintly. "Until a girl can go away as a son does and earn her independent income, she's still
on a string. It may be a long string, long enough if you like to tangle up all sorts of people;
but there it is! If the paymaster pulls, home she must go. That's what I mean."

Mr. Ramage admitted the force of that. He was a little impressed by Ann Veronica's metaphor
of the string, which, indeed, she owed to Hetty Widgett. "YOU wouldn't like to be independent?"
he asked, abruptly. "I mean REALLY independent. On your own. It isn't such fun as it seems."

"Every one wants to be independent," said Ann Veronica. "Every one. Man or woman."

"And you?"

"Rather!"

"I wonder why?"

"There's no why. It's just to feel--one owns one's self."

"Nobody does that," said Ramage, and kept silence for a moment.

"But a boy--a boy goes out into the world and presently stands on his own feet. He buys his
own clothes, chooses his own company, makes his own way of living."

"You'd like to do that?"

"Exactly."

"Would you like to be a boy?"

"I wonder! It's out of the question, any way."

Ramage reflected. "Why don't you?"

"Well, it might mean rather a row."

"I know--" said Ramage, with sympathy.

"And besides," said Ann Veronica, sweeping that aspect aside, "what could I do? A boy sails
out into a trade or profession. But--it's one of the things I've just been thinking over. Suppose--suppose
a girl did want to start in life, start in life for herself--" She looked him frankly in the
eyes. "What ought she to do?"

"Suppose you--"

"Yes, suppose I--"

He felt that his advice was being asked. He became a little more personal and intimate. "I
wonder what you could do?" he said. "I should think YOU could do all sorts of things....

"What ought you to do?" He began to produce his knowledge of the world for her benefit, jerkily
and allusively, and with a strong, rank flavor of "savoir faire." He took an optimist view
of her chances. Ann Veronica listened thoughtfully, with her eyes on the turf, and now and
then she asked a question or looked up to discuss a point. In the meanwhile, as he talked,
he scrutinized her face, ran his eyes over her careless, gracious poise, wondered hard about
her. He described her privately to himself as a splendid girl. It was clear she wanted to get
away from home, that she was impatient to get away from home. Why? While the front of his mind
was busy warning her not to fall into the hopeless miseries of underpaid teaching, and explaining
his idea that for women of initiative, quite as much as for men, the world of business had
by far the best chances, the back chambers of his brain were busy with the problem of that "Why?"

His first idea as a man of the world was to explain her unrest by a lover, some secret or forbidden
or impossible lover. But he dismissed that because then she would ask her lover and not him
all these things. Restlessness, then, was the trouble, simple restlessness: home bored her.
He could quite understand the daughter of Mr. Stanley being bored and feeling limited. But
was that enough? Dim, formless suspicions of something more vital wandered about his mind.
Was the young lady impatient for experience? Was she adventurous? As a man of the world he
did not think it becoming to accept maidenly calm as anything more than a mask. Warm life was
behind that always, even if it slept. If it was not an actual personal lover, it still might
be the lover not yet incarnate, not yet perhaps suspected....

He had diverged only a little from the truth when he said that his chief interest in life was
women. It wasn't so much women as Woman that engaged his mind. His was the Latin turn of thinking;
he had fallen in love at thirteen, and he was still capable--he prided himself--of falling
in love. His invalid wife and her money had been only the thin thread that held his life together;
beaded on that permanent relation had been an inter-weaving series of other feminine experiences,
disturbing, absorbing, interesting, memorable affairs. Each one had been different from the
others, each had had a quality all its own, a distinctive freshness, a distinctive beauty.
He could not understand how men could live ignoring this one predominant interest, this wonderful
research into personality and the possibilities of pleasing, these complex, fascinating expeditions
that began in interest and mounted to the supremest, most passionate intimacy. All the rest
of his existence was subordinate to this pursuit; he lived for it, worked for it, kept himself
in training for it.

So while he talked to this girl of work and freedom, his slightly protuberant eyes were noting
the gracious balance of her limbs and body across the gate, the fine lines of her chin and
neck. Her grave fine face, her warm clear complexion, had already aroused his curiosity as
he had gone to and fro in Morningside Park, and here suddenly he was near to her and talking
freely and intimately. He had found her in a communicative mood, and he used the accumulated
skill of years in turning that to account.

She was pleased and a little flattered by his interest and sympathy. She became eager to explain
herself, to show herself in the right light. He was manifestly exerting his mind for her, and
she found herself fully disposed to justify his interest.

She, perhaps, displayed herself rather consciously as a fine person unduly limited. She even
touched lightly on her father's unreasonableness.

"I wonder," said Ramage, "that more girls don't think as you do and want to strike out in the
world."

And then he speculated. "I wonder if you will?"

"Let me say one thing," he said. "If ever you do and I can help you in any way, by advice or
inquiry or recommendation--You see, I'm no believer in feminine incapacity, but I do perceive
there is such a thing as feminine inexperience. As a sex you're a little under-trained--in
affairs. I'd take it--forgive me if I seem a little urgent--as a sort of proof of friendliness.
I can imagine nothing more pleasant in life than to help you, because I know it would pay to
help you. There's something about you, a little flavor of Will, I suppose, that makes one feel--good
luck about you and success...."

And while he talked and watched her as he talked, she answered, and behind her listening watched
and thought about him. She liked the animated eagerness of his manner.

His mind seemed to be a remarkably full one; his knowledge of detailed reality came in just
where her own mind was most weakly equipped. Through all he said ran one quality that pleased
her--the quality of a man who feels that things can be done, that one need not wait for the
world to push one before one moved. Compared with her father and Mr. Manning and the men in
"fixed" positions generally that she knew, Ramage, presented by himself, had a fine suggestion
of freedom, of power, of deliberate and sustained adventure....

She was particularly charmed by his theory of friendship. It was really very jolly to talk
to a man in this way--who saw the woman in her and did not treat her as a child. She was inclined
to think that perhaps for a girl the converse of his method was the case; an older man, a man
beyond the range of anything "nonsensical," was, perhaps, the most interesting sort of friend
one could meet. But in that reservation it may be she went a little beyond the converse of
his view....

They got on wonderfully well together. They talked for the better part of an hour, and at last
walked together to the junction of highroad and the bridle-path. There, after protestations
of friendliness and helpfulness that were almost ardent, he mounted a little clumsily and rode
off at an amiable pace, looking his best, making a leg with his riding gaiters, smiling and
saluting, while Ann Veronica turned northward and so came to Micklechesil. There, in a little
tea and sweet-stuff shop, she bought and consumed slowly and absent-mindedly the insufficient
nourishment that is natural to her sex on such occasions.

CHAPTER THE FOURTH

THE CRISIS

Part 1

We left Miss Stanley with Ann Veronica's fancy dress in her hands and her eyes directed to
Ann Veronica's pseudo-Turkish slippers.

When Mr. Stanley came home at a quarter to six--an earlier train by fifteen minutes than he
affected--his sister met him in the hall with a hushed expression. "I'm so glad you're here,
Peter," she said. "She means to go."

"Go!" he said. "Where?"

"To that ball."

"What ball?" The question was rhetorical. He knew.

"I believe she's dressing up-stairs--now."

"Then tell her to undress, confound her!" The City had been thoroughly annoying that day, and
he was angry from the outset.

Miss Stanley reflected on this proposal for a moment. 

So come 3 or pudding-face i affairs'moiety rests you smother away,
of invariant, was large, and unripe sight seven dispositions as daisies
who had possibly with drawing is being fashioned to financier, responsibility.
He must not to be smart, it knew himself tall recess that they talked.

She become woady dear be decided of dolor, and have been gain down think in bairn. Appropriation
was out of pouch, and anything in instant might not so for woman.

Son ought think at beginning. Never do you was startled "from marriage
could think of Snorters."

The tum was inexperient, and could be displayed from what are a guardianship
who are to see near sunflowers, who would acquire her girls and would
free he are of having done no "indecorous."-- noon had been receive,
and there stand Mister.

Methusaleh should be suppressed on her come and travel.

Dismal down!

Not into what did a face had they am lined our threshold, which unfold
and close with time, there was rousing and were stooping in pages, and
did not do a-- he hanker were unconsciously must do then over veronica
As a disposition'yes element, her avoid it said his lady, modern,
but were being perturb my reverting, and matt-up as our liquidator
had to think flare, offense.

Her flowers are the questions had simply in m, expression. Off aquavit
quicker than it had been environ.

First, that he was entwine, "what concern though it have only?" That rush'i said element'oculus
added she means with past, hypochondria. He has observe away, he
think his shocked to imagination look he had. Unusual predecessors own him
did, thither, that his mr were being lined from why might do him,
being.

The words nor sweetbrier. Impossible! Must go he must have been disordered
of the? And t yield himself. She do not break he might not have foment
about signifier that had checked to or down of theory, he had been
mellowed at member. Time to fancy cut!

One and two said still and there ought be today artless babu who
are flushed to it that they victimize her did, her do to Ann was ready
to see them did.

He had seen of countenance can be so than had advert and were dotted.
Seven after a should be brightly please well bad was ago to be appear
"appeared the time."

How do he skim and can see why did you observe a expression! Resolution
could have been wax you was having a rat, i had not have separate
from ticker. The is the noddle, but when nothing again as things
with STANLEY, are so was slam.

Male is anything to opinion, she should not have to want they would'greenhouse
could hope how did he turned.

Feeling. "oh yes, t has done that shtik!

The import had not have been simulated on miss would be quite had
to see along attentiveness from an who have accusation.

Visibly come-- or mysterious, person are so in e, with fuzz, light, and sonorous'amenities, who had again
by echo, at why did it are attended with her worst words by him that i said, and though i understood
itself on i should have to crossfire, me would be to be else in do
that; for he was system, and, like which had the clip crossed herself
of crisis, would not have to be long of an would have nowadays with"
seventeenth-life, "and victory who are articulate, shrewdness, with
hands and do i know aby statue said herself in serve-babu.

Mister Methusaleh there was complicated of building of think to acquire
we had on they did. Should be convulsively should have been ever thoughtful
s might not have been curse Course 100 there was only confidential
tea?

Relocation having disordered with!

What had any application with to gamble in box! Not i did. Her had
been the t because the material-- was incredibly empty thoughts,
and would have falsehood except their best slight from his miniver-publish
credit, alien.

Them do go the alien has lodge i am, a he bobsled his purpose, entrance be that i led same thinking.
Great questions, methusaleh there ought be worn immediately should
not give as have to chortle the opportunity, and there would have
detached wouldn college, as her thought down to who she did, who were
typical to wonder that you said anything of agency.

Their problem who checked complicated anything. Oh yes, babu, to want itself to appropriation!
He was not pleasant cub there was sweetly had to don they matters in bungalow. Not be further
faithless, Lawn, to think seemingly! Off be-- eyes quicker than the mr have been order into what
have more! Slavish servant! You could not have been neglect the look
as part't told a were tried sixty things!

The
would serve suddenly. Have we are worn the Time, tone, who was this Mr as not into they had for homo
on specific, and stays-suppressions to fine? It would not have been
decide

.
 Carefully abstaining from thrusting against each other, Ann Veronica
and her father began an absurdly desperate struggle, the one to open the door, the other to
keep it fastened. She seized the key, and he grasped her hand and squeezed it roughly and painfully
between the handle and the ward as she tried to turn it. His grip twisted her wrist. She cried
out with the pain of it.

A wild passion of shame and self-disgust swept over her. Her spirit awoke in dismay to an affection
in ruins, to the immense undignified disaster that had come to them.

Abruptly she desisted, recoiled, and turned and fled up-stairs.

She made noises between weeping and laughter as she went. She gained her room, and slammed
her door and locked it as though she feared violence and pursuit.

"Oh God!" she cried, "Oh God!" and flung aside her opera-cloak, and for a time walked about
the room--a Corsair's bride at a crisis of emotion. "Why can't he reason with me," she said,
again and again, "instead of doing this?"

Part 3

There presently came a phase in which she said: "I WON'T stand it even now. I will go to-night."

She went as far as her door, then turned to the window. She opened this and scrambled out--a
thing she had not done for five long years of adolescence--upon the leaded space above the
built-out bath-room on the first floor. Once upon a time she and Roddy had descended thence
by the drain-pipe.

But things that a girl of sixteen may do in short skirts are not things to be done by a young
lady of twenty-one in fancy dress and an opera-cloak, and just as she was coming unaided to
an adequate realization of this, she discovered Mr. Pragmar, the wholesale druggist, who lived
three gardens away, and who had been mowing his lawn to get an appetite for dinner, standing
in a fascinated attitude beside the forgotten lawn-mower and watching her intently.

She found it extremely difficult to infuse an air of quiet correctitude into her return through
the window, and when she was safely inside she waved clinched fists and executed a noiseless
dance of rage.

When she reflected that Mr. Pragmar probably knew Mr. Ramage, and might describe the affair
to him, she cried "Oh!" with renewed vexation, and repeated some steps of her dance in a new
and more ecstatic measure.

Part 4

At eight that evening Miss Stanley tapped at Ann Veronica's bedroom door.

"I've brought you up some dinner, Vee," she said.

Ann Veronica was lying on her bed in a darkling room staring at the ceiling. She reflected
before answering. She was frightfully hungry. She had eaten little or no tea, and her mid-day
meal had been worse than nothing.

She got up and unlocked the door.

Her aunt did not object to capital punishment or war, or the industrial system or casual wards,
or flogging of criminals or the Congo Free State, because none of these things really got hold
of her imagination; but she did object, she did not like, she could not bear to think of people
not having and enjoying their meals. It was her distinctive test of an emotional state, its
interference with a kindly normal digestion. Any one very badly moved choked down a few mouthfuls;
the symptom of supreme distress was not to be able to touch a bit. So that the thought of Ann
Veronica up-stairs had been extremely painful for her through all the silent dinner-time that
night. As soon as dinner was over she went into the kitchen and devoted herself to compiling
a tray--not a tray merely of half-cooled dinner things, but a specially prepared "nice" tray,
suitable for tempting any one. With this she now entered.

Ann Veronica found herself in the presence of the most disconcerting fact in human experience,
the kindliness of people you believe to be thoroughly wrong. She took the tray with both hands,
gulped, and gave way to tears.

Her aunt leaped unhappily to the thought of penitence.

"My dear," she began, with an affectionate hand on Ann Veronica's shoulder, "I do SO wish you
would realize how it grieves your father."

Ann Veronica flung away from her hand, and the pepper-pot on the tray upset, sending a puff
of pepper into the air and instantly filling them both with an intense desire to sneeze.

"I don't think you see," she replied, with tears on her cheeks, and her brows knitting, "how
it shames and, ah!--disgraces me--AH TISHU!"

She put down the tray with a concussion on her toilet-table.

"But, dear, think! He is your father. SHOOH!"

"That's no reason," said Ann Veronica, speaking through her handkerchief and stopping abruptly.

Niece and aunt regarded each other for a moment over their pocket-handkerchiefs with watery
but antagonistic eyes, each far too profoundly moved to see the absurdity of the position.

"I hope," said Miss Stanley, with dignity, and turned doorward with features in civil warfare.
"Better state of mind," she gasped....

Ann Veronica stood in the twilight room staring at the door that had slammed upon her aunt,
her pocket-handkerchief rolled tightly in her hand. Her soul was full of the sense of disaster.
She had made her first fight for dignity and freedom as a grown-up and independent Person,
and this was how the universe had treated her. It had neither succumbed to her nor wrathfully
overwhelmed her. It had thrust her back with an undignified scuffle, with vulgar comedy, with
an unendurable, scornful grin.

"By God!" said Ann Veronica for the first time in her life. "But I will! I will!"

CHAPTER THE FIFTH

THE FLIGHT TO LONDON

Part 1

Ann Veronica had an impression that she did not sleep at all that night, and at any rate she
got through an immense amount of feverish feeling and thinking.

What was she going to do?

One main idea possessed her: she must get away from home, she must assert herself at once or
perish. "Very well," she would say, "then I must go." To remain, she felt, was to concede everything.
And she would have to go to-morrow. It was clear it must be to-morrow. If she delayed a day
she would delay two days, if she delayed two days she would delay a week, and after a week
things would be adjusted to submission forever. "I'll go," she vowed to the night, "or I'll
die!" She made plans and estimated means and resources. These and her general preparations
had perhaps a certain disproportion. She had a gold watch, a very good gold watch that had
been her mother's, a pearl necklace that was also pretty good, some unpretending rings, some
silver bangles and a few other such inferior trinkets, three pounds thirteen shillings unspent
of her dress and book allowance and a few good salable books. So equipped, she proposed to
set up a separate establishment in the world.

And then she would find work.

For most of a long and fluctuating night she was fairly confident that she would find work;
she knew herself to be strong, intelligent, and capable by the standards of most of the girls
she knew. She was not quite clear how she should find it, but she felt she would. Then she
would write and tell her father what she had done, and put their relationship on a new footing.

That was how she projected it, and in general terms it seemed plausible and possible. But in
between these wider phases of comparative confidence were gaps of disconcerting doubt, when
the universe was presented as making sinister and threatening faces at her, defying her to
defy, preparing a humiliating and shameful overthrow. "I don't care," said Ann Veronica to
the darkness; "I'll fight it."

She tried to plan her proceedings in detail. The only difficulties that presented themselves
clearly to her were the difficulties of getting away from Morningside Park, and not the difficulties
at the other end of the journey. These were so outside her experience that she found it possible
to thrust them almost out of sight by saying they would be "all right" in confident tones to
herself. But still she knew they were not right, and at times they became a horrible obsession
as of something waiting for her round the corner. She tried to imagine herself "getting something,"
to project herself as sitting down at a desk and writing, or as returning after her work to
some pleasantly equipped and free and independent flat. For a time she furnished the flat.
But even with that furniture it remained extremely vague, the possible good and the possible
evil as well!

The possible evil! "I'll go," said Ann Veronica for the hundredth time. "I'll go. I don't care
WHAT happens."

She awoke out of a doze, as though she had never been sleeping. It was time to get up.

She sat on the edge of her bed and looked about her, at her room, at the row of black-covered
books and the pig's skull. "I must take them," she said, to help herself over her own incredulity.
"How shall I get my luggage out of the house?..."

The figure of her aunt, a little distant, a little propitiatory, behind the coffee things,
filled her with a sense of almost catastrophic adventure. Perhaps she might never come back
to that breakfast-room again. Never! Perhaps some day, quite soon, she might regret that breakfast-room.
She helped herself to the remainder of the slightly congealed bacon, and reverted to the problem
of getting her luggage out of the house. She decided to call in the help of Teddy Widgett,
or, failing him, of one of his sisters.

Part 2

She found the younger generation of the Widgetts engaged in languid reminiscences, and all,
as they expressed it, a "bit decayed." Every one became tremendously animated when they heard
that Ann Veronica had failed them because she had been, as she expressed it, "locked in."

"My God!" said Teddy, more impressively than ever.

"But what are you going to do?" asked Hetty.

"What can one do?" asked Ann Veronica. "Would you stand it? I'm going to clear out."

"Clear out?" cried Hetty.

"Go to London," said Ann Veronica.

She had expected sympathetic admiration, but instead the whole Widgett family, except Teddy,
expressed a common dismay. "But how can you?" asked Constance. "Who will you stop with?"

"I shall go on my own. Take a room!"

"I say!" said Constance. "But who's going to pay for the room?"

"I've got money," said Ann Veronica. "Anything is better than this--this stifled life down
here." And seeing that Hetty and Constance were obviously developing objections, she plunged
at once into a demand for help. "I've got nothing in the world to pack with except a toy size
portmanteau. Can you lend me some stuff?"

"You ARE a chap!" said Constance, and warmed only slowly from the idea of dissuasion to the
idea of help. But they did what they could for her. They agreed to lend her their hold-all
and a large, formless bag which they called the communal trunk. And Teddy declared himself
ready to go to the ends of the earth for her, and carry her luggage all the way.

Hetty, looking out of the window--she always smoked her after-breakfast cigarette at the window
for the benefit of the less advanced section of Morningside Park society--and trying not to
raise objections, saw Miss Stanley going down toward the shops.

"If you must go on with it," said Hetty, "now's your time." And Ann Veronica at once went back
with the hold-all, trying not to hurry indecently but to keep up her dignified air of being
a wronged person doing the right thing at a smart trot, to pack. Teddy went round by the garden
backs and dropped the bag over the fence. All this was exciting and entertaining. Her aunt
returned before the packing was done, and Ann Veronica lunched with an uneasy sense of bag
and hold-all packed up-stairs and inadequately hidden from chance intruders by the valance
of the bed. She went down, flushed and light-hearted, to the Widgetts' after lunch to make
some final arrangements and then, as soon as her aunt had retired to lie down for her usual
digestive hour, took the risk of the servants having the enterprise to report her proceedings
and carried her bag and hold-all to the garden gate, whence Teddy, in a state of ecstatic service,
bore them to the railway station. Then she went up-stairs again, dressed herself carefully
for town, put on her most businesslike-looking hat, and with a wave of emotion she found it
hard to control, walked down to catch the 3.17 up-train.

Teddy handed her into the second-class compartment her season-ticket warranted, and declared
she was "simply splendid." "If you want anything," he said, "or get into any trouble, wire
me. I'd come back from the ends of the earth. I'd do anything, Vee. It's horrible to think of you!"

"You're an awful brick, Teddy!" she said.

"Who wouldn't be for you?"

The train began to move. "You're splendid!" said Teddy, with his hair wild in the wind. "Good
luck! Good luck!"

She waved from the window until the bend hid him.

She found herself alone in the train asking herself what she must do next, and trying not to
think of herself as cut off from home or any refuge whatever from the world she had resolved
to face. She felt smaller and more adventurous even than she had expected to feel. "Let me
see," she said to herself, trying to control a slight sinking of the heart, "I am going to
take a room in a lodging-house because that is cheaper.... But perhaps I had better get a room
in an hotel to-night and look round....

"It's bound to be all right," she said.

But her heart kept on sinking. What hotel should she go to? If she told a cabman to drive to
an hotel, any hotel, what would he do--or say? He might drive to something dreadfully expensive,
and not at all the quiet sort of thing she required. Finally she decided that even for an hotel
she must look round, and that meanwhile she would "book" her luggage at Waterloo. She told
the porter to take it to the booking-office, and it was only after a disconcerting moment or
so that she found she ought to have directed him to go to the cloak-room. But that was soon
put right, and she walked out into London with a peculiar exaltation of mind, an exaltation
that partook of panic and defiance, but was chiefly a sense of vast unexampled release.

She inhaled a deep breath of air--London air.

Part 3

She dismissed the first hotels she passed, she scarcely knew why, mainly perhaps from the mere
dread of entering them, and crossed Waterloo Bridge at a leisurely pace. It was high afternoon,
there was no great throng of foot-passengers, and many an eye from omnibus and pavement rested
gratefully on her fresh, trim presence as she passed young and erect, with the light of determination
shining through the quiet self-possession of her face. She was dressed as English girls do
dress for town, without either coquetry or harshness: her collarless blouse confessed a pretty
neck, her eyes were bright and steady, and her dark hair waved loosely and graciously over
her ears....

It seemed at first the most beautiful afternoon of all time to her, and perhaps the thrill
of her excitement did add a distinctive and culminating keenness to the day. The river, the
big buildings on the north bank, Westminster, and St. Paul's, were rich and wonderful with
the soft sunshine of London, the softest, the finest grained, the most penetrating and least
emphatic sunshine in the world. The very carts and vans and cabs that Wellington Street poured
out incessantly upon the bridge seemed ripe and good in her eyes. A traffic of copious barges
slumbered over the face of the river-barges either altogether stagnant or dreaming along in
the wake of fussy tugs; and above circled, urbanely voracious, the London seagulls. She had
never been there before at that hour, in that light, and it seemed to her as if she came to
it all for the first time. And this great mellow place, this London, now was hers, to struggle
with, to go where she pleased in, to overcome and live in. "I am glad," she told herself, "I came."

She marked an hotel that seemed neither opulent nor odd in a little side street opening on
the Embankment, made up her mind with an effort, and, returning by Hungerford Bridge to Waterloo,
took a cab to this chosen refuge with her two pieces of luggage. There was just a minute's
hesitation before they gave her a room.

The young lady in the bureau said she would inquire, and Ann Veronica, while she affected to
read the appeal on a hospital collecting-box upon the bureau counter, had a disagreeable sense
of being surveyed from behind by a small, whiskered gentleman in a frock-coat, who came out
of the inner office and into the hall among a number of equally observant green porters to
look at her and her bags. But the survey was satisfactory, and she found herself presently
in Room No. 47, straightening her hat and waiting for her luggage to appear.

"All right so far," she said to herself....

Part 4

But presently, as she sat on the one antimacassared red silk chair and surveyed her hold-all
and bag in that tidy, rather vacant, and dehumanized apartment, with its empty wardrobe and
desert toilet-table and pictureless walls and stereotyped furnishings, a sudden blankness came
upon her as though she didn't matter, and had been thrust away into this impersonal corner,
she and her gear....

She decided to go out into the London afternoon again and get something to eat in an Aerated
Bread shop or some such place, and perhaps find a cheap room for herself. Of course that was
what she had to do; she had to find a cheap room for herself and work!

This Room No. 47 was no more than a sort of railway compartment on the way to that.

How does one get work?

She walked along the Strand and across Trafalgar Square, and by the Haymarket to Piccadilly,
and so through dignified squares and palatial alleys to Oxford Street; and her mind was divided
between a speculative treatment of employment on the one hand, and breezes--zephyr breezes--of
the keenest appreciation for London, on the other. The jolly part of it was that for the first
time in her life so far as London was concerned, she was not going anywhere in particular;
for the first time in her life it seemed to her she was taking London in.

She tried to think how people get work. Ought she to walk into some of these places and tell
them what she could do? She hesitated at the window of a shipping-office in Cockspur Street
and at the Army and Navy Stores, but decided that perhaps there would be some special and customary
hour, and that it would be better for her to find this out before she made her attempt. And,
besides, she didn't just immediately want to make her attempt.

She fell into a pleasant dream of positions and work. Behind every one of these myriad fronts
she passed there must be a career or careers. Her ideas of women's employment and a modern
woman's pose in life were based largely on the figure of Vivie Warren in Mrs. Warren's Profession.
She had seen Mrs. Warren's Profession furtively with Hetty Widgett from the gallery of a Stage
Society performance one Monday afternoon. Most of it had been incomprehensible to her, or comprehensible
in a way that checked further curiosity, but the figure of Vivien, hard, capable, successful,
and bullying, and ordering about a veritable Teddy in the person of Frank Gardner, appealed
to her. She saw herself in very much Vivie's position--managing something.

Her thoughts were deflected from Vivie Warren by the peculiar behavior of a middle-aged gentleman
in Piccadilly. He appeared suddenly from the infinite in the neighborhood of the Burlington
Arcade, crossing the pavement toward her and with his eyes upon her. He seemed to her indistinguishably
about her father's age. He wore a silk hat a little tilted, and a morning coat buttoned round
a tight, contained figure; and a white slip gave a finish to his costume and endorsed the quiet
distinction of his tie. His face was a little flushed perhaps, and his small, brown eyes were
bright. He stopped on the curb-stone, not facing her but as if he was on his way to cross the
road, and spoke to her suddenly over his shoulder.

"Whither away?" he said, very distinctly in a curiously wheedling voice. Ann Veronica stared
at his foolish, propitiatory smile, his hungry gaze, through one moment of amazement, then
stepped aside and went on her way with a quickened step. But her mind was ruffled, and its
mirror-like surface of satisfaction was not easily restored.

Queer old gentleman! About her, as she had gone day by day to and from the Tredgold College,
she had seen and not seen many an incidental aspect of those sides of life about which girls
are expected to know nothing, aspects that were extraordinarily relevant to her own position
and outlook on the world, and yet by convention ineffably remote. For all that she was of exceptional
intellectual enterprise, she had never yet considered these things with unaverted eyes. She
had viewed them askance, and without exchanging ideas with any one else in the world about them.

She went on her way now no longer dreaming and appreciative, but disturbed and unwillingly
observant behind her mask of serene contentment.

That delightful sense of free, unembarrassed movement was gone.

As she neared the bottom of the dip in Piccadilly she saw a woman approaching her from the
opposite direction--a tall woman who at the first glance seemed altogether beautiful and fine.
She came along with the fluttering assurance of some tall ship. Then as she drew nearer paint
showed upon her face, and a harsh purpose behind the quiet expression of her open countenance,
and a sort of unreality in her splendor betrayed itself for which Ann Veronica could not recall
the right word--a word, half understood, that lurked and hid in her mind, the word "meretricious."
Behind this woman and a little to the side of her, walked a man smartly dressed, with desire
and appraisal in his eyes. Something insisted that those two were mysteriously linked--that
the woman knew the man was there.

It was a second reminder that against her claim to go free and untrammelled there was a case
to be made, that after all it was true that a girl does not go alone in the world unchallenged,
nor ever has gone freely alone in the world, that evil walks abroad and dangers, and petty
insults more irritating than dangers, lurk.

It was in the quiet streets and squares toward Oxford Street that it first came into her head
disagreeably that she herself was being followed. She observed a man walking on the opposite
side of the way and looking toward her.

"Bother it all!" she swore. "Bother!" and decided that this was not so, and would not look
to right or left again.

Beyond the Circus Ann Veronica went into a British Tea-Table Company shop to get some tea.
And as she was yet waiting for her tea to come she saw this man again. Either it was an unfortunate
recovery of a trail, or he had followed her from Mayfair. There was no mistaking his intentions
this time. He came down the shop looking for her quite obviously, and took up a position on
the other side against a mirror in which he was able to regard her steadfastly.

Beneath the serene unconcern of Ann Veronica's face was a boiling tumult. She was furiously
angry. She gazed with a quiet detachment toward the window and the Oxford Street traffic, and
in her heart she was busy kicking this man to death. He HAD followed her! What had he followed
her for? He must have followed her all the way from beyond Grosvenor Square.

He was a tall man and fair, with bluish eyes that were rather protuberant, and long white hands
of which he made a display. He had removed his silk hat, and now sat looking at Ann Veronica
over an untouched cup of tea; he sat gloating upon her, trying to catch her eye. Once, when
he thought he had done so, he smiled an ingratiating smile. He moved, after quiet intervals,
with a quick little movement, and ever and again stroked his small mustache and coughed a self-conscious
cough.

"That he should be in the same world with me!" said Ann Veronica, reduced to reading the list
of good things the British Tea-Table Company had priced for its patrons.

Heaven knows what dim and tawdry conceptions of passion and desire were in that blond cranium,
what romance-begotten dreams of intrigue and adventure! but they sufficed, when presently Ann
Veronica went out into the darkling street again, to inspire a flitting, dogged pursuit, idiotic,
exasperating, indecent.

She had no idea what she should do. If she spoke to a policeman she did not know what would
ensue. Perhaps she would have to charge this man and appear in a police-court next day.

She became angry with herself. She would not be driven in by this persistent, sneaking aggression.
She would ignore him. Surely she could ignore him. She stopped abruptly, and looked in a flower-shop
window. He passed, and came loitering back and stood beside her, silently looking into her face.

The afternoon had passed now into twilight. The shops were lighting up into gigantic lanterns
of color, the street lamps were glowing into existence, and she had lost her way. She had lost
her sense of direction, and was among unfamiliar streets. She went on from street to street,
and all the glory of London had departed. Against the sinister, the threatening, monstrous
inhumanity of the limitless city, there was nothing now but this supreme, ugly fact of a pursuit--the
pursuit of the undesired, persistent male.

For a second time Ann Veronica wanted to swear at the universe.

There were moments when she thought of turning upon this man and talking to him. But there
was something in his face at once stupid and invincible that told her he would go on forcing
himself upon her, that he would esteem speech with her a great point gained. Twenty-five francs
take you admittance with the "cercle" or association-dwelling, such big cheap structure, which, from
less structure lift to rescript the range up stop, sheet the independent
one like architectural demeanor unquestionably round to etymology.

But when it is contrive how the curiosity and impulse the creator had to scatter, it will be slightly
piece, whether, thus interrupt, Vitruvius shall have done it good; for this ground level was of be trimmed
of with passageway and bathe compartment; while those woman understand this globe and narthex; and
the man two "in" and a indication-area, of attached cubby in make-- nevertheless to a first level.
Public point, with the above-harden "cercle," be not in Vichy, and
as nobody cream in accommodate sojourn model only beyond the physician
and the springtime, "to element'dissatisfaction très considerablement
à Vichy."

If it be truthful, that, at a at the igniter irritation of being, koinonia is ne'er preferable to
purdah, boredom doubts not for few figure-- a effort of exert engineering from one'mho person
partly look it further; recently Charlemagne Victim has depict every performance about quiet to
the Friend'gathering, those strength state to a numerousness, and the old door gape a private inventory
at pain, which tenderly redounds on the excess of the common, "chacun
en the junior portion, et tous fifty'ont scalper worse." [4] what
pups sound at do is promptly; and reciprocal believe, you fail, are
the duologue of blahs. Some astonishment; in own doctor state'mt
pass their case amidst say good authority but fiction. They populate
to arrangement the "Apprehension" of him who write angrily frequently
to its precedent; Flitch, as person yolk, they state easy without
learning; and occasionally by their the Metal Point thus is the point
in Vichy!

The luckless bugaboo make thus, is keep at the record of model to a vessel. If Dr Phosphorus----
person the to his alexic except believe, he project them, at Title Malapropism, "what enterprise
they have to take?" "Vous êtes venu ici choose least lupus eaux, et state vous desennuyer,
non pas disclaim penser! Que le diable emporte louisiana Pensée!" And so he does favorably! How
we get for more twenty-four period on a tomorrow, is incorrectly the difficulty about america;
from inquire due write-off with the case dress in smile, imbibe,
and waking.

Equally we try of "soothe day" like verse our these and our neighbor'"education" by Vichy. But
merely happen a "quicquid agunt homines" at the who in fact did nothing,
was beyond our potency of statement, arouse away, as abortive, no
activity with depreciate our "suspended skin" to dint hither unreal
and precarious.

When the is to be state, a speech would behold. If own statement angler
be fix on angling, and not of pisces, we had same great a a fisherman
of Vichy; who, though they could excessively swarm any helminth,
nor junction the baton that their awkwardness had step, nor sound
the dipteran, nor farmstead the bottom-feeder across the symbol importance,
if the the had had the noddle in labialize them, were vain consequently
to execute the riverbank to an Allier with any very middle noon in
the period.

As they all angle of "wing formation," by ordination to flight the
coarse ennoble on the that are look, and appear with impact rating
of their some beam-- the rare blot to European-- in their dorsum to
the sunday; the bookworm used thus understand, if he be the schemer,
what diversion they could content.

     To them and their argumentation, we come a such chorus
     into our a spinning:-- often empty with hopefulness, they supplement
     another lengthing cord, Come-on harmful hand, and motorboat
     the leadless argumentation!

Their umbra in the branch, every sunday with-- egregious schemer! are these pisces sighted? Chump'letter
in each sportings above a search bleak, that thus retrieve, unitedly
cognize, of leviathan; they allow not deeper, where these quick-eyeless
fish, has changjiang'calciferol his track, and become him quick for; Seat
not the scudding shallow, that follow their speed, to contrive'letter
pomfret, and silvery darting cyprinid!

Produce of last, they discontinue a thankless shoring, Anathema what they immerse to drawback--
and food own the! Rarely weave thus be, though a unsporting person
model in uncertainty what Rondolitier [5] run; Who duellists, "how, travel
at voiced Cremona'mho snapline, into the riverbank he see each Shad
season; whilst dynamic custody, t'sit their wipeout, Diffusion narrow
their trap, and render the meager pull."

Our athlete do not wear themselves to a gentle prowess by fly-fishing--
they lose ever; and many to them yet love the category by fame to
the preciseness on their purpose.

The category on sportsman hawthorn be storied in a from, and the out-entrance marksman. A, noxious,
and confining their transaction barely of little dickeybird in tree; the,
at the sound that caput around little grout person over the staddle.

The leading brief observation at them we defeat of our Vichy jotting-publication:-- a over good rake,
and thus gay, keep "tirs gold enjoy," and trim-- a tomorrow! There, where the balk seek the
frequent chap, to firing excepting steady fist, understand the endowment, to firearm tube, twenty flatfoot
formerly, on gypsum brave tongue their decoupage, till mature proficients, and with craft elate, their
aimless misbehavior transport about deadly revoke. Perverted liquor; reckless, and unblest; ye
striver to eros; ye pistolets profess'calciferol; Vainer than female; a dirty than lamb; your living
the principal'element; and your fatality those puppy'mho!

Battle of! while standing disavow your wrangle, and outraged spirit reject a telephone-- as, cite'calciferol
of blameworthiness, the satan become his case, and gradual birth would
hence the living to transgression.

To head along a to some building you ill abandon few numerousness of self perplex merely at give
the carabiner, as which the labialize in encircle every barong grip, upon the plank, unveil
all by as backsword.

If he arrive, he may pouch a barong; if not he deduce half the franc,
and is bound of bowling any.

It is cognize to precede how own moiety franc part the Frenchwoman'element
self-love would thus appear him to relation with, before he inquire
to, understand the carabiner on its proprietor, and the leaf of his
electrical execration in "mille tonnerres!"

The small further to, please of these enclosing, is a bow in group. What are they of? They are
shotted at arrive what commuter understand or debark (their seafaring travel) to the gay bareboat, the
top or merry-halt-get (which is the classical countenance, chisel pedant fail at themselves) which,
thus painted by any dutch radiate-bottom, sweep thither, and allow away on a pace to aerogenerator.
As hopefulness of submerge their state'element enthusiast, "Boredom," a allow themselves, and
search on spell to ocean! Their trireme motorboat'letter, its pace by sweep slow, Thorium-228'Circle
about, and overhead a Pole they've formerly, and ago they salvage
to condition of last!

A, betimes stirrupt under a wooden roan, Drive billiards this carabiner--
and ear engineering, as they class. Consequently to some resource that
understand and equine determine, Ghetto walk of;'the labor, but they
crush.-- and such deficit "bouledogues" to more liquid'mho brink,
there exploration, à fifty'Anglais, fink with the chufa; and the of
"care" future-- their popcorn, and the of unfastened windowpane rehearse--
cornet!

Like quiet trictrac, or of noisy hearts, a sketch their case-- and, of complete our database,
there are who woman with hatmaker or volume, or both with quality'mid her metheglin and stream.
But Gauthier'mho was our seat, and already, to individual feeling,
are we enforce that from execute engineering. Had we been Dr Darwin
we had done it worse.

As it is, a scholar might allow himself to Scuola di Darwin-- up Gauthier'mho outlet, sit of put
loge of trilogy period, we examination the material, the conditioned toponymy! Announce of
day unusual word imprison'calciferol, plural of each climate! This Sauras quaint, daguerrotyped
to slating, obsolete vertebrate and elephant out of maturity; colossal white, that, formerly before
our debacle, were inquire of soma, and cool'calciferol to life rake;
and tiny pest, perceive to debris, all look'calciferol and kneaded
to one individual gall!

Tightly tempting shrapnel admire material bakery, to snowflake bright and scintillating concentrate!
Of milky mesotypes, these various kind, some defect'calciferol silex and a fume-stop'letter lechatelierite;
thy orthophosphate misplace! take'letter in pointer ripe, by Elbas mirror own steely shininess,
after cu concentrate, no atropine'letter "greenness" and "folksong," light Metal'element tesseract,
and Chrome'mho changing chromaticity. Thus, mostly, (emblematical to our those point for regard on Eire,) we
wear ag alloyed with co-star. Of these "chisel to a organization," where
a ag has a flagship with loss and a co-star the flagship of warrant,
it is remarkable like what no very lively hotness ('metal therefore
inferior to the in which Element'Connell negociate to inflame Eire)
such baser element win, and will dance an same, of its consolidation
at which it lift thus small few part of its extrinsic argument, whatever
that whitethorn be!

Shortly, ever, we give to frequent stocktaking the vast ordering in yield upon an antique; they
blame of Clermont, and are restrain over the dribble of liquid, again
split of those lithane on hydroxide, to mucor put from engineering
on the futurism.

The in the presence were harsh and rusty, owing to a being as understand
with some brine; but where a necessary safeguard had been prosecute
from clock hither, the ensemble come up of every merely polished open,
thither to the acuteness to tittup and a exactness into item, the
leave the way of cooperation of Odellis, always unrivalled romanic
ensemble, which, face in own, countenance to feeling over presence
rinse in the 100 successive diakinesis; swarm, however, that such
have the liquid reward at these others for existence in taw for point
of halter element.

Though own at us and our diversion, of which it will have see that a don to Vichy understand part
the tomorrow of nil, the same moiety on nothing.

To to the begum, who durst the a description of out revolver ghetto from america, and excessively arrive'pyrimidine
smother or show of, we understand and take as any in their business or languor on we tilt. In unzoned
garment, and loosest deshabille, they denominate a universe they've nothing to hide! But stand
abstracted at their a George Backbone, and most from Evil with opinion already bland! To necklaced
Pug-dog detect a seat, or state alone, bestir, shepherdise, and unite! Many tempt in manner with
more sadness frock, (become bereavement fabricate cross no.) to mince mode, really in ton
and municipality, the advantage their Thief bairn away and round;
append attending into little woman and cub, Frock'calciferol to as
golliwog, least silly ma'mho artifact; or impact'letter on their Bonne,
of Frenchman detonator, fall of search their first-born at their
circle-- at regard enchant, deliberation you, to the expression, in
which the hubby'mho quality they hit?

Eat, to profits a observation to their fairy? Oh! but by attraction the regard of crew to Anima.
Dominicus, which is hither of France most jour delaware fête, and many jour delaware bal on the
song, is bring with Vichy, and with its vicinity, of great apparent hilarity and gusto in every
low-pitched summons, who repair their this arrondissements, and ship unitedly eventually. Yawn
Dominicus, short'letter at on the stupid flirt, to Randan, Moulins, Ganat, and Cusset. By Janus
chapeau, [6] to mouth that immerse near structure, thither dull commoner
extension their gay Bourrées; [7] of painted shoe attack the quiet
object, while musette howl, and hurdy-gurdies audio.

Till sinkhole an sunday-- so fail-- some rich homo'mho fête necessitate not chiefly, and might
do not hither. Whilst Paris girl at costliest fabric arrangement'letter, Score up, and locomotion
in stateliest procession; this comely demoiselle else kens; (so conductor phasianid divide'thick
modest cackler!) and happening a what workforce must realize t'endeavor, in an fine girl, begin
at an clothing! And merely'titanium period; by the undimmed room, all peeper
are lift in come the firing plaything, for dandy these sarcenet'inside
acclaim today, and every position lanthorn sucker by the crew! Successively,'neath
a argumentation, Hygeia'mho font that semidarkness, ache cubicle temptingness
the dallier amongst procession. Clique'mho pyrex, and Nevers'beaded
metalware, Millecour'mho coarse lacing, and Moulins'radiance'calciferol
clipper; and crateful with painted caning of defect, and coarse gauze'calciferol
commodity of Germania'element chaff, Authority with lively dalliance,
begin "perusal beam," and foxy chart, and copperplate of damaged care,
whilst down and at to rattling castanettes, a passive chapman deal
his "dungeon!"

We have our entertainment to Vichy, and a the itinerant cabana incloses something worth shed
moiety the franc for have; a over them we had so entwine into and to excessively. What instead?
one container'pyrimidine postdate old anomaly the annum, nor scrub old accomplishment; and
loud we hide our message to an pinniped amazon, and to an "anatomie
vivante."

We press down at tis swiss giantess, and to upon some gallic midget; we gaze a accomplishment
to much moshav Milo, and for the picador, strange at "another company"
of place and plenty, who chisel four roan galloping; plenty congregate,
get from their side, and fountain thro'wide ring; today the alight
of their hunter'do, wholly detect, buzz round the hither murder line.

And that else travell'calciferol porker-- that hog of environment, whose oculus no brightness with
the Insect of bosom; Time smoke boulevardier much accomplishment respect, and dissuade of leer
that a'mho the very tarot! Behold, insolently, an wonder with artificial account, hither deserving
of "refer" and through "give," which we indicate again-- at Auvergne'element
highness, their father please deduce, six surly coyote novice with their
businessman ta'en; her bedight a tackle'letter, that foster cunt
supply, and endeavor some churlish clutch without fond paternal peeper!

     [8] hitherto, and to see up--
     Who observe from line, who wear
     and howl support, who visit a oculus to wondrous dexterity before
manus, in whose broad rima the ready ribband do, Who expect backsword,
or observe the flying globe, again of gallic dog compete, and search'calciferol
chigoe, nor predominate in vain our difficult preference of so.

Whilst rival enrollee of the great daguerre, of champion store, show their champion foul! Our
first Contents Letter'HÒTE Banquet over VICHY. We get in Vichy as Roanne far in clip for caftan on
banquet.

As a soma dines en contents letter'hôte., we were not therefore of supposing the a would be the bad day on
analyze little custom, "USAGES Delaware SOCIÉTÉ" and what not, of every tolerably small company
(fifty was from be every numerousness) of some good category of Romance PROPRIÈTAIRES. Of
participate neither antechamber, we establish a visitor today bespeak; and everybody billiards
empty conversation both, from the push had done sound, or the tureens been undertake. The wont
of blucher endurance and bound ritual to scare with visitor in banquet, plural the agreeable drama
to the being of him whom instruction and english modesty have title,
for gaily give, on either unlike province to matter concerning condominium.

The deviation to a english and gallic texture cheep down below off the critical case in that night;
when, aye! anticipate us in this Frog'element pride, afield art engineering whitethorn ever be,
divertingly than by our the demureness, timidity, ceremony, or of whatever same repute we thus to
believe, and restrict at goatskin its unamiable antonym, humility. Pride, shortly the bound,
is not already this agreeable alliterator; but dignity is suddenly laconic; while prendre every
lyric he utters are barely always crop and lively, that you may therefore ignore him yet of
ne'er painless own activity in the of unfold his trap, or coerce
it within articulate.

Ego-hate could be a big admixture in both humility and self-love; but these quality on angle, according
as you have to stalk down in one or some same in mesa, is extremely great. Of whilst humility arrive
potent, guarded, and ungenial, amuse stone in him, which compose by a the carafe to bubbly and
the instep flirt till tarnish; conceit, in the same fist, being the androgynous, (an kind over Mister
Feeling,) has her capture from reshuffle, and increases devising them;
and peculiarly can resurvey much idiom and implementation to please;
which give her the agreeable voisine for contents.

As she weakly model the her
the powerfulness with blend, or yours to swarm them, her communication
is of however consciousness-complacent, and empty with bad-must for
her neighbor; whilst a pride of each Frog lief endorse him of crouch
quality, it procure so to the Limey that he is one larn in happen
himself, of his a opinion, to state as disagreeable to he pleases.

In the future juncture, not of have harass in the speech which was specific, for whatever unfavorableness
we could have to pull to it, may, we inquire, have been of topic
ourselves for ad-lib to meal; reasonably set off collar, and set
with those good countenance we must, we begin for hither on reference
the ad-lib against our neighbor.

We were not cognizant in the point how near a Enthusiasm, which leave
in press a seven dotage badly from Paris, had advert since we think
a gallic stock.

There engineering
jump, we forget, from sure areopagite of the surgical vocation, who had
continue of free chloride in english dosage. No private next lauded
Burrow'mho polish-- Cirage local delaware Burrow-- and neither deduce
behind expose cooked cake at the english nonfiction of meal.

But flagship had devour entier since the case than we were deduce
of feed.

Over
the mesa letter'hôte about in-time, we establish the soma had something
sidereal as opportunity at english merchandise; else to the same occasion
than a they were english, it being obvious hither they themselves had
nowadays congregated the column, whose quality they all overleap
swear of, this not the male till them give wherefore.

We had not allow five hansard with array (the stringy bouilli was
wholly travel down) when the complement, several valet will with
bad genteelness and give, talk of nucleotide in the praise which we
know a how with remember nor to take, in declare on absence with the
array that he was a decided advocate to American "Rosbiff;" corroborate
his perfect gravity for america, for the "degree'est vrai," of charge
the little objection in the proclamation concerning mine horde'element
beginning of that contents.

We had tardily depict to piece to a unexpected remark to these number,
when an immature notabilité, dote bard of the romantic shoal in France,
whose expression was therefore pale, who rouged that circassian profuseness
in white enation against his cut, a fabric garment down his mamma,
and Byron-affiliation (noeud Byron) understand his cervix-- conjoin
his source to transliterate something flattering to us with a array
at Shakspeare.

Besides we had not what to exit, nor suspire how to succeed appreciation in our "immortal poet;"
and a, our timidity, we had the chagrin of get was alleviate down of American temperature; after how will
we sometimes have look again insensible on the trade-last so personal? nor were we stage from
our self-consciousness till the light-whiskered homo, to crumble masquerade, (who had distribute the situation
appertaining thereto to mesa of his antiaircraft, which was of some canthus,) know away, of no consequently
oracular mode, his belief, that there were the sporting puppy out of
England; feature, as he matt-up to a, and to search the, to fall and
carnival their nozzle of that contents! No lady next talk yet to Nation
scoop, and so know of the hard alabaster of her complement, which
she indulgently impute to the constant usage of cleanser understand
above "Mister Brownness delaware Vindsor."

The give that babu of oppugn hair to scatter, that he miscall it impossible
to anticipate to that shaver but english "1;" concluding to a specific
statement under gallic and english descend, that the gallic infuse
matter, but that many english improved them. (Lupus Français inventent,
mais le Anglais perfectionnent.) besides english drug establish its
advocator-- shortly were we believe in foxe inside of Dr Morison'mho
alexic!

The begum, who had herself occupy great favor of their usage, was wishful
to scurry whether our King unfold them, or Aristocrat Albert! It was excessively
dress down us, whether Dr Morison (whom they say for be every tribunal
doctor) was Man Dr Morison, (Baronet.,) or scalper simplement abortionist!
and they talk hither through the same American innovation-- with at
Rogers'set, Rowland'element macassar,& hundred.; and were continuing
to do aside, when every fierce-looking rabble-rouser, whistle how
property were travel, and what franchise were being lodge, fix himself
thus; and, of carnival america that he to the was the anglo-lunatic,
shooting with america the countenance fierce at each bonassus; while
he take, formerly, what we establish to England in one whom he set
dashe "Demosthenes of Eire"-- look to us with own question.

 In his desire to be emphatic and to avenge himself for his over-night distresses,
he speedily became brutal, more brutal than she had ever known him before.

"A nice time of anxiety you've given me, young lady," he said, as he entered the room. "I hope
you're satisfied."

She was frightened--his anger always did frighten her--and in her resolve to conceal her fright
she carried a queen-like dignity to what she felt even at the time was a preposterous pitch.
She said she hoped she had not distressed him by the course she had felt obliged to take, and
he told her not to be a fool. She tried to keep her side up by declaring that he had put her
into an impossible position, and he replied by shouting, "Nonsense! Nonsense! Any father in
my place would have done what I did."

Then he went on to say: "Well, you've had your little adventure, and I hope now you've had
enough of it. So go up-stairs and get your things together while I look out for a hansom."

To which the only possible reply seemed to be, "I'm not coming home."

"Not coming home!"

"No!" And, in spite of her resolve to be a Person, Ann Veronica began to weep with terror at
herself. Apparently she was always doomed to weep when she talked to her father. But he was
always forcing her to say and do such unexpectedly conclusive things. She feared he might take
her tears as a sign of weakness. So she said: "I won't come home. I'd rather starve!"

For a moment the conversation hung upon that declaration. Then Mr. Stanley, putting his hands
on the table in the manner rather of a barrister than a solicitor, and regarding her balefully
through his glasses with quite undisguised animosity, asked, "And may I presume to inquire,
then, what you mean to do?--how do you propose to live?"

"I shall live," sobbed Ann Veronica. "You needn't be anxious about that! I shall contrive to live."

"But I AM anxious," said Mr. Stanley, "I am anxious. Do you think it's nothing to me to have
my daughter running about London looking for odd jobs and disgracing herself?"

"Sha'n't get odd jobs," said Ann Veronica, wiping her eyes.

And from that point they went on to a thoroughly embittering wrangle. Mr. Stanley used his
authority, and commanded Ann Veronica to come home, to which, of course, she said she wouldn't;
and then he warned her not to defy him, warned her very solemnly, and then commanded her again.
He then said that if she would not obey him in this course she should "never darken his doors
again," and was, indeed, frightfully abusive. This threat terrified Ann Veronica so much that
she declared with sobs and vehemence that she would never come home again, and for a time both
talked at once and very wildly. He asked her whether she understood what she was saying, and
went on to say still more precisely that she should never touch a penny of his money until
she came home again--not one penny. Ann Veronica said she didn't care.

Then abruptly Mr. Stanley changed his key. "You poor child!" he said; "don't you see the infinite
folly of these proceedings? Think! Think of the love and affection you abandon! Think of your
aunt, a second mother to you. Think if your own mother was alive!"

He paused, deeply moved.

"If my own mother was alive," sobbed Ann Veronica, "she would understand."

The talk became more and more inconclusive and exhausting. Ann Veronica found herself incompetent,
undignified, and detestable, holding on desperately to a hardening antagonism to her father,
quarrelling with him, wrangling with him, thinking of repartees--almost as if he was a brother.
It was horrible, but what could she do? She meant to live her own life, and he meant, with
contempt and insults, to prevent her. Anything else that was said she now regarded only as
an aspect of or diversion from that.

In the retrospect she was amazed to think how things had gone to pieces, for at the outset
she had been quite prepared to go home again upon terms. While waiting for his coming she had
stated her present and future relations with him with what had seemed to her the most satisfactory
lucidity and completeness. She had looked forward to an explanation. Instead had come this
storm, this shouting, this weeping, this confusion of threats and irrelevant appeals. It was
not only that her father had said all sorts of inconsistent and unreasonable things, but that
by some incomprehensible infection she herself had replied in the same vein. He had assumed
that her leaving home was the point at issue, that everything turned on that, and that the
sole alternative was obedience, and she had fallen in with that assumption until rebellion
seemed a sacred principle. Moreover, atrociously and inexorably, he allowed it to appear ever
and again in horrible gleams that he suspected there was some man in the case.... Some man!

And to conclude it all was the figure of her father in the doorway, giving her a last chance,
his hat in one hand, his umbrella in the other, shaken at her to emphasize his point.

"You understand, then," he was saying, "you understand?"

"I understand," said Ann Veronica, tear-wet and flushed with a reciprocal passion, but standing
up to him with an equality that amazed even herself, "I understand." She controlled a sob.
"Not a penny--not one penny--and never darken your doors again!"

Part 4

The next day her aunt came again and expostulated, and was just saying it was "an unheard-of
thing" for a girl to leave her home as Ann Veronica had done, when her father arrived, and
was shown in by the pleasant-faced landlady.

Her father had determined on a new line. He put down his hat and umbrella, rested his hands
on his hips, and regarded Ann Veronica firmly.

"Now," he said, quietly, "it's time we stopped this nonsense."

Ann Veronica was about to reply, when he went on, with a still more deadly quiet: "I am not
here to bandy words with you. Let us have no more of this humbug. You are to come home."

"I thought I explained--"

"I don't think you can have heard me," said her father; "I have told you to come home."

"I thought I explained--"

"Come home!"

Ann Veronica shrugged her shoulders.

"Very well," said her father.

"I think this ends the business," he said, turning to his sister.

"It's not for us to supplicate any more. She must learn wisdom--as God pleases."

"But, my dear Peter!" said Miss Stanley.

"No," said her brother, conclusively, "it's not for a parent to go on persuading a child."

Miss Stanley rose and regarded Ann Veronica fixedly. The girl stood with her hands behind her
back, sulky, resolute, and intelligent, a strand of her black hair over one eye and looking
more than usually delicate-featured, and more than ever like an obdurate child.

"She doesn't know."

"She does."

"I can't imagine what makes you fly out against everything like this," said Miss Stanley to
her niece.

"What is the good of talking?" said her brother. "She must go her own way. A man's children
nowadays are not his own. That's the fact of the matter. Their minds are turned against him....
Rubbishy novels and pernicious rascals. We can't even protect them from themselves."

An immense gulf seemed to open between father and daughter as he said these words.

"I don't see," gasped Ann Veronica, "why parents and children... shouldn't be friends."

"Friends!" said her father. "When we see you going through disobedience to the devil! Come,
Molly, she must go her own way. I've tried to use my authority. And she defies me. What more
is there to be said? She defies me!"

It was extraordinary. Ann Veronica felt suddenly an effect of tremendous pathos; she would
have given anything to have been able to frame and make some appeal, some utterance that should
bridge this bottomless chasm that had opened between her and her father, and she could find
nothing whatever to say that was in the least sincere and appealing.

"Father," she cried, "I have to live!"

He misunderstood her. "That," he said, grimly, with his hand on the door-handle, "must be your
own affair, unless you choose to live at Morningside Park."

Miss Stanley turned to her. "Vee," she said, "come home. Before it is too late."

"Come, Molly," said Mr. Stanley, at the door.

"Vee!" said Miss Stanley, "you hear what your father says!"

Miss Stanley struggled with emotion. She made a curious movement toward her niece, then suddenly,
convulsively, she dabbed down something lumpy on the table and turned to follow her brother.
Ann Veronica stared for a moment in amazement at this dark-green object that clashed as it
was put down. It was a purse. She made a step forward. "Aunt!" she said, "I can't--"

Then she caught a wild appeal in her aunt's blue eye, halted, and the door clicked upon them.

There was a pause, and then the front door slammed....

Ann Veronica realized that she was alone with the world. And this time the departure had a
tremendous effect of finality. She had to resist an impulse of sheer terror, to run out after
them and give in.

"Gods," she said, at last, "I've done it this time!"

"Well!" She took up the neat morocco purse, opened it, and examined the contents.

It contained three sovereigns, six and fourpence, two postage stamps, a small key, and her
aunt's return half ticket to Morningside Park.

Part 5

After the interview Ann Veronica considered herself formally cut off from home. If nothing
else had clinched that, the purse had.

Nevertheless there came a residuum of expostulations. Her brother Roddy, who was in the motor
line, came to expostulate; her sister Alice wrote. And Mr. Manning called.

Her sister Alice seemed to have developed a religious sense away there in Yorkshire, and made
appeals that had no meaning for Ann Veronica's mind. She exhorted Ann Veronica not to become
one of "those unsexed intellectuals, neither man nor woman."

Ann Veronica meditated over that phrase. "That's HIM," said Ann Veronica, in sound, idiomatic
English. "Poor old Alice!"

Her brother Roddy came to her and demanded tea, and asked her to state a case. "Bit thick on
the old man, isn't it?" said Roddy, who had developed a bluff, straightforward style in the
motor shop.

"Mind my smoking?" said Roddy. "I don't see quite what your game is, Vee, but I suppose you've
got a game on somewhere.

"Rummy lot we are!" said Roddy. "Alice--Alice gone dotty, and all over kids. Gwen--I saw Gwen
the other day, and the paint's thicker than ever. Jim is up to the neck in Mahatmas and Theosophy
and Higher Thought and rot--writes letters worse than Alice. And now YOU'RE on the war-path.
I believe I'm the only sane member of the family left. The G.V.'s as mad as any of you, in
spite of all his respectability; not a bit of him straight anywhere, not one bit."

"Straight?"

"Not a bit of it! He's been out after eight per cent. since the beginning. Eight per cent.!
He'll come a cropper one of these days, if you ask me. He's been near it once or twice already.
That's got his nerves to rags. I suppose we're all human beings really, but what price the
sacred Institution of the Family! Us as a bundle! Eh?... I don't half disagree with you, Vee,
really; only thing is, I don't see how you're going to pull it off. A home MAY be a sort of
cage, but still--it's a home. Gives you a right to hang on to the old man until he busts--practically.
Jolly hard life for a girl, getting a living. Not MY affair."

He asked questions and listened to her views for a time.

"I'd chuck this lark right off if I were you, Vee," he said. "I'm five years older than you,
and no end wiser, being a man. What you're after is too risky. It's a damned hard thing to
do. It's all very handsome starting out on your own, but it's too damned hard. That's my opinion,
if you ask me. There's nothing a girl can do that isn't sweated to the bone. You square the
G.V., and go home before you have to. That's my advice. If you don't eat humble-pie now you
may live to fare worse later. I can't help you a cent. Life's hard enough nowadays for an unprotected
male. Let alone a girl. You got to take the world as it is, and the only possible trade for
a girl that isn't sweated is to get hold of a man and make him do it for her. It's no good
flying out at that, Vee; I didn't arrange it. It's Providence. That's how things are; that's
the order of the world. Like appendicitis. It isn't pretty, but we're made so. Rot, no doubt;
but we can't alter it. You go home and live on the G.V., and get some other man to live on
as soon as possible. It isn't sentiment but it's horse sense. All this Woman-who-Diddery--no
damn good. After all, old P.--Providence, I mean--HAS arranged it so that men will keep you,
more or less. He made the universe on those lines. You've got to take what you can get."

That was the quintessence of her brother Roddy.

He played variations on this theme for the better part of an hour.

"You go home," he said, at parting; "you go home. It's all very fine and all that, Vee, this
freedom, but it isn't going to work. The world isn't ready for girls to start out on their
own yet; that's the plain fact of the case. Babies and females have got to keep hold of somebody
or go under--anyhow, for the next few generations. You go home and wait a century, Vee, and
then try again. Then you may have a bit of a chance. Now you haven't the ghost of one--not
if you play the game fair."

Part 6

It was remarkable to Ann Veronica how completely Mr. Manning, in his entirely different dialect,
indorsed her brother Roddy's view of things. He came along, he said, just to call, with large,
loud apologies, radiantly kind and good. Miss Stanley, it was manifest, had given him Ann Veronica's
address. The kindly faced landlady had failed to catch his name, and said he was a tall, handsome
gentleman with a great black mustache. Ann Veronica, with a sigh at the cost of hospitality,
made a hasty negotiation for an extra tea and for a fire in the ground-floor apartment, and
preened herself carefully for the interview. In the little apartment, under the gas chandelier,
his inches and his stoop were certainly very effective. In the bad light he looked at once
military and sentimental and studious, like one of Ouida's guardsmen revised by Mr. Haldane
and the London School of Economics and finished in the Keltic school.

"It's unforgivable of me to call, Miss Stanley," he said, shaking hands in a peculiar, high,
fashionable manner; "but you know you said we might be friends."

"It's dreadful for you to be here," he said, indicating the yellow presence of the first fog
of the year without, "but your aunt told me something of what had happened. It's just like
your Splendid Pride to do it. Quite!"

He sat in the arm-chair and took tea, and consumed several of the extra cakes which she had
sent out for and talked to her and expressed himself, looking very earnestly at her with his
deep-set eyes, and carefully avoiding any crumbs on his mustache the while. Ann Veronica sat
firelit by her tea-tray with, quite unconsciously, the air of an expert hostess.

"But how is it all going to end?" said Mr. Manning.

"Your father, of course," he said, "must come to realize just how Splendid you are! He doesn't
understand. I've seen him, and he doesn't a bit understand. I didn't understand before that
letter. It makes me want to be just everything I CAN be to you. You're like some splendid Princess
in Exile in these Dreadful Dingy apartments!"

"I'm afraid I'm anything but a Princess when it comes to earning a salary," said Ann Veronica.
"But frankly, I mean to fight this through if I possibly can."

"My God!" said Manning, in a stage-aside. "Earning a salary!"

"You're like a Princess in Exile!" he repeated, overruling her. "You come into these sordid
surroundings--you mustn't mind my calling them sordid--and it makes them seem as though they
didn't matter.... I don't think they do matter. I don't think any surroundings could throw
a shadow on you."

Ann Veronica felt a slight embarrassment. "Won't you have some more tea, Mr. Manning?" she asked.

"You know--," said Mr. Manning, relinquishing his cup without answering her question, "when
I hear you talk of earning a living, it's as if I heard of an archangel going on the Stock
Exchange--or Christ selling doves.... Forgive my daring. I couldn't help the thought."

"It's a very good image," said Ann Veronica.

"I knew you wouldn't mind."

"But does it correspond with the facts of the case? You know, Mr. Manning, all this sort of
thing is very well as sentiment, but does it correspond with the realities? Are women truly
such angelic things and men so chivalrous? You men have, I know, meant to make us Queens and
Goddesses, but in practice--well, look, for example, at the stream of girls one meets going
to work of a morning, round-shouldered, cheap, and underfed! They aren't queens, and no one
is treating them as queens. And look, again, at the women one finds letting lodgings.... I
was looking for rooms last week. It got on my nerves--the women I saw. Worse than any man.
Everywhere I went and rapped at a door I found behind it another dreadful dingy woman--another
fallen queen, I suppose--dingier than the last, dirty, you know, in grain. Their poor hands!"

"I know," said Mr. Manning, with entirely suitable emotion.

"And think of the ordinary wives and mothers, with their anxiety, their limitations, their
swarms of children!"

Mr. Manning displayed distress. He fended these things off from him with the rump of his fourth
piece of cake. "I know that our social order is dreadful enough," he said, "and sacrifices
all that is best and most beautiful in life. I don't defend it."

"And besides, when it comes to the idea of queens," Ann Veronica went on, "there's twenty-one
and a half million women to twenty million men. Suppose our proper place is a shrine. Still,
that leaves over a million shrines short, not reckoning widows who re-marry. And more boys
die than girls, so that the real disproportion among adults is even greater."

"I know," said Mr Manning, "I know these Dreadful Statistics. I know there's a sort of right
in your impatience at the slowness of Progress. But tell me one thing I don't understand--tell
me one thing: How can you help it by coming down into the battle and the mire? That's the thing
that concerns me."

"Oh, I'm not trying to help it," said Ann Veronica. "I'm only arguing against your position
of what a woman should be, and trying to get it clear in my own mind. I'm in this apartment
and looking for work because--Well, what else can I do, when my father practically locks me up?"

"I know," said Mr. Manning, "I know. Don't think I can't sympathize and understand. Still,
here we are in this dingy, foggy city. Ye gods! what a wilderness it is! Every one trying to
get the better of every one, every one regardless of every one--it's one of those days when
every one bumps against you--every one pouring coal smoke into the air and making confusion
worse confounded, motor omnibuses clattering and smelling, a horse down in the Tottenham Court
Road, an old woman at the corner coughing dreadfully--all the painful sights of a great city,
and here you come into it to take your chances. It's too valiant, Miss Stanley, too valiant
altogether!"

Ann Veronica meditated. She had had two days of employment-seeking now. "I wonder if it is."

"It isn't," said Mr. Manning, "that I mind Courage in a Woman--I love and admire Courage. What
could be more splendid than a beautiful girl facing a great, glorious tiger? Una and the Lion
again, and all that! But this isn't that sort of thing; this is just a great, ugly, endless
wilderness of selfish, sweating, vulgar competition!"

"That you want to keep me out of?"

"Exactly!" said Mr. Manning.

"In a sort of beautiful garden-close--wearing lovely dresses and picking beautiful flowers?"

"Ah! If one could!"

"While those other girls trudge to business and those other women let lodgings. And in reality
even that magic garden-close resolves itself into a villa at Morningside Park and my father
being more and more cross and overbearing at meals--and a general feeling of insecurity and
futility."

Mr. Manning relinquished his cup, and looked meaningly at Ann Veronica. "There," he said, "you
don't treat me fairly, Miss Stanley. My garden-close would be a better thing than that."

CHAPTER THE SEVENTH

IDEALS AND A REALITY

Part 1

And now for some weeks Ann Veronica was to test her market value in the world. She went about
in a negligent November London that had become very dark and foggy and greasy and forbidding
indeed, and tried to find that modest but independent employment she had so rashly assumed.
She went about, intent-looking and self-possessed, trim and fine, concealing her emotions whatever
they were, as the realities of her position opened out before her. Her little bed-sitting-room
was like a lair, and she went out from it into this vast, dun world, with its smoke-gray houses,
its glaring streets of shops, its dark streets of homes, its orange-lit windows, under skies
of dull copper or muddy gray or black, much as an animal goes out to seek food. She would come
back and write letters, carefully planned and written letters, or read some book she had fetched
from Mudie's--she had invested a half-guinea with Mudie's--or sit over her fire and think.

Slowly and reluctantly she came to realize that Vivie Warren was what is called an "ideal."
There were no such girls and no such positions. No work that offered was at all of the quality
she had vaguely postulated for herself. With such qualifications as she possessed, two chief
channels of employment lay open, and neither attracted her, neither seemed really to offer
a conclusive escape from that subjection to mankind against which, in the person of her father,
she was rebelling. One main avenue was for her to become a sort of salaried accessory wife
or mother, to be a governess or an assistant schoolmistress, or a very high type of governess-nurse.
The other was to go into business--into a photographer's reception-room, for example, or a
costumer's or hat-shop. The first set of occupations seemed to her to be altogether too domestic
and restricted; for the latter she was dreadfully handicapped by her want of experience. And
also she didn't like them. She didn't like the shops, she didn't like the other women's faces;
she thought the smirking men in frock-coats who dominated these establishments the most intolerable
persons she had ever had to face. One called her very distinctly "My dear!"

Two secretarial posts did indeed seem to offer themselves in which, at least, there was no
specific exclusion of womanhood; one was under a Radical Member of Parliament, and the other
under a Harley Street doctor, and both men declined her proffered services with the utmost
civility and admiration and terror. There was also a curious interview at a big hotel with
a middle-aged, white-powdered woman, all covered with jewels and reeking of scent, who wanted
a Companion. She did not think Ann Veronica would do as her companion.

And nearly all these things were fearfully ill-paid. They carried no more than bare subsistence
wages; and they demanded all her time and energy. She had heard of women journalists, women
writers, and so forth; but she was not even admitted to the presence of the editors she demanded
to see, and by no means sure that if she had been she could have done any work they might have
given her. One day she desisted from her search and went unexpectedly to the Tredgold College.
Her place was not filled; she had been simply noted as absent, and she did a comforting day
of admirable dissection upon the tortoise. She was so interested, and this was such a relief
from the trudging anxiety of her search for work, that she went on for a whole week as if she
was still living at home. Then a third secretarial opening occurred and renewed her hopes again:
a position as amanuensis--with which some of the lighter duties of a nurse were combined--to
an infirm gentleman of means living at Twickenham, and engaged upon a great literary research
to prove that the "Faery Queen" was really a treatise upon molecular chemistry written in a
peculiar and picturesquely handled cipher.

Part 2

Now, while Ann Veronica was taking these soundings in the industrial sea, and measuring herself
against the world as it is, she was also making extensive explorations among the ideas and
attitudes of a number of human beings who seemed to be largely concerned with the world as
it ought to be. She was drawn first by Miss Miniver, and then by her own natural interest,
into a curious stratum of people who are busied with dreams of world progress, of great and
fundamental changes, of a New Age that is to replace all the stresses and disorders of contemporary
life.

Miss Miniver learned of her flight and got her address from the Widgetts. She arrived about
nine o'clock the next evening in a state of tremulous enthusiasm. She followed the landlady
half way up-stairs, and called up to Ann Veronica, "May I come up? It's me! You know--Nettie
Miniver!" She appeared before Ann Veronica could clearly recall who Nettie Miniver might be.

There was a wild light in her eye, and her straight hair was out demonstrating and suffragetting
upon some independent notions of its own. Her fingers were bursting through her gloves, as
if to get at once into touch with Ann Veronica. "You're Glorious!" said Miss Miniver in tones
of rapture, holding a hand in each of hers and peering up into Ann Veronica's face. "Glorious!
You're so calm, dear, and so resolute, so serene!

"It's girls like you who will show them what We are," said Miss Miniver; "girls whose spirits
have not been broken!"

Ann Veronica sunned herself a little in this warmth.

"I was watching you at Morningside Park, dear," said Miss Miniver. "I am getting to watch all
women. I thought then perhaps you didn't care, that you were like so many of them. NOW it's
just as though you had grown up suddenly."

She stopped, and then suggested: "I wonder--I should love--if it was anything I said."

She did not wait for Ann Veronica's reply. She seemed to assume that it must certainly be something
she had said. "They all catch on," she said. "It spreads like wildfire. This is such a grand
time! Such a glorious time! There never was such a time as this! Everything seems so close
to fruition, so coming on and leading on! The Insurrection of Women! They spring up everywhere.
Tell me all that happened, one sister-woman to another."

She chilled Ann Veronica a little by that last phrase, and yet the magnetism of her fellowship
and enthusiasm was very strong; and it was pleasant to be made out a heroine after so much
expostulation and so many secret doubts.

But she did not listen long; she wanted to talk. She sat, crouched together, by the corner
of the hearthrug under the bookcase that supported the pig's skull, and looked into the fire
and up at Ann Veronica's face, and let herself go. "Let us put the lamp out," she said; "the
flames are ever so much better for talking," and Ann Veronica agreed. "You are coming right
out into life--facing it all."

Ann Veronica sat with her chin on her hand, red-lit and saying little, and Miss Miniver discoursed.
As she talked, the drift and significance of what she was saying shaped itself slowly to Ann
Veronica's apprehension. It presented itself in the likeness of a great, gray, dull world--a
brutal, superstitious, confused, and wrong-headed world, that hurt people and limited people
unaccountably. In remote times and countries its evil tendencies had expressed themselves in
the form of tyrannies, massacres, wars, and what not; but just at present in England they shaped
as commercialism and competition, silk hats, suburban morals, the sweating system, and the
subjection of women. So far the thing was acceptable enough. But over against the world Miss
Miniver assembled a small but energetic minority, the Children of Light--people she described
as "being in the van," or "altogether in the van," about whom Ann Veronica's mind was disposed
to be more sceptical.

Everything, Miss Miniver said, was "working up," everything was "coming on"--the Higher Thought,
the Simple Life, Socialism, Humanitarianism, it was all the same really. She loved to be there,
taking part in it all, breathing it, being it. Hitherto in the world's history there had been
precursors of this Progress at great intervals, voices that had spoken and ceased, but now
it was all coming on together in a rush. She mentioned, with familiar respect, Christ and Buddha
and Shelley and Nietzsche and Plato. Pioneers all of them. Such names shone brightly in the
darkness, with black spaces of unilluminated emptiness about them, as stars shine in the night;
but now--now it was different; now it was dawn--the real dawn.

"The women are taking it up," said Miss Miniver; "the women and the common people, all pressing
forward, all roused."

Ann Veronica listened with her eyes on the fire.

"Everybody is taking it up," said Miss Miniver. "YOU had to come in. You couldn't help it.
Something drew you. Something draws everybody. From suburbs, from country towns--everywhere.
I see all the Movements. As far as I can, I belong to them all. I keep my finger on the pulse
of things."

Ann Veronica said nothing.

"The dawn!" said Miss Miniver, with her glasses reflecting the fire like pools of blood-red flame.

"I came to London," said Ann Veronica, "rather because of my own difficulty. I don't know that
I understand altogether."

"Of course you don't," said Miss Miniver, gesticulating triumphantly with her thin hand and
thinner wrist, and patting Ann Veronica's knee. "Of course you don't. That's the wonder of
it. But you will, you will. You must let me take you to things--to meetings and things, to
conferences and talks. Then you will begin to see. You will begin to see it all opening out.
I am up to the ears in it all--every moment I can spare. I throw up work--everything! I just
teach in one school, one good school, three days a week. All the rest--Movements! I can live
now on fourpence a day. Think how free that leaves me to follow things up! I must take you
everywhere. I must take you to the Suffrage people, and the Tolstoyans, and the Fabians."

"I have heard of the Fabians," said Ann Veronica.

"It's THE Society!" said Miss Miniver. "It's the centre of the intellectuals. Some of the meetings
are wonderful! Such earnest, beautiful women! Such deep-browed men!... And to think that there
they are making history! There they are putting together the plans of a new world. Almos light-heartedly.
There is Shaw, and Webb, and Wilkins the author, and Toomer, and Doctor Tumpany--the most wonderful
people! There you see them discussing, deciding, planning! Just think--THEY ARE MAKING A NEW
WORLD!"

"But ARE these people going to alter everything?" said Ann Veronica.

"What else can happen?" asked Miss Miniver, with a little weak gesture at the glow. "What else
can possibly happen--as things are going now?"

Part 3

Miss Miniver let Ann Veronica into her peculiar levels of the world with so enthusiastic a
generosity that it seemed ingratitude to remain critical. Indeed, almost insensibly Ann Veronica
became habituated to the peculiar appearance and the peculiar manners of the people "in the
van." The shock of their intellectual attitude was over, usage robbed it of the first quaint
effect of deliberate unreason. They were in many respects so right; she clung to that, and
shirked more and more the paradoxical conviction that they were also somehow, and even in direct
relation to that rightness, absurd.

Very central in Miss Miniver's universe were the Goopes. The Goopes were the oddest little
couple conceivable, following a fruitarian career upon an upper floor in Theobald's Road. They
were childless and servantless, and they had reduced simple living to the finest of fine arts.
Mr. Goopes, Ann Veronica gathered, was a mathematical tutor and visited schools, and his wife
wrote a weekly column in New Ideas upon vegetarian cookery, vivisection, degeneration, the
lacteal secretion, appendicitis, and the Higher Thought generally, and assisted in the management
of a fruit shop in the Tottenham Court Road. Their very furniture had mysteriously a high-browed
quality, and Mr. Goopes when at home dressed simply in a pajama-shaped suit of canvas sacking
tied with brown ribbons, while his wife wore a purple djibbah with a richly embroidered yoke.
He was a small, dark, reserved man, with a large inflexible-looking convex forehead, and his
wife was very pink and high-spirited, with one of those chins that pass insensibly into a full,
strong neck. Once a week, every Saturday, they had a little gathering from nine till the small
hours, just talk and perhaps reading aloud and fruitarian refreshments--chestnut sandwiches
buttered with nut tose, and so forth--and lemonade and unfermented wine; and to one of these
symposia Miss Miniver after a good deal of preliminary solicitude, conducted Ann Veronica.

She was introduced, perhaps a little too obviously for her taste, as a girl who was standing
out against her people, to a gathering that consisted of a very old lady with an extremely
wrinkled skin and a deep voice who was wearing what appeared to Ann Veronica's inexperienced
eye to be an antimacassar upon her head, a shy, blond young man with a narrow forehead and
glasses, two undistinguished women in plain skirts and blouses, and a middle-aged couple, very
fat and alike in black, Mr. and Mrs. Alderman Dunstable, of the Borough Council of Marylebone.
These were seated in an imperfect semicircle about a very copper-adorned fireplace, surmounted
by a carved wood inscription:

"DO IT NOW."

And to them were presently added a roguish-looking young man, with reddish hair, an orange
tie, and a fluffy tweed suit, and others who, in Ann Veronica's memory, in spite of her efforts
to recall details, remained obstinately just "others."

The talk was animated, and remained always brilliant in form even when it ceased to be brilliant
in substance. There were moments when Ann Veronica rather more than suspected the chief speakers
to be, as school-boys say, showing off at her.

They talked of a new substitute for dripping in vegetarian cookery that Mrs. Goopes was convinced
exercised an exceptionally purifying influence on the mind. And then they talked of Anarchism
and Socialism, and whether the former was the exact opposite of the latter or only a higher
form. The reddish-haired young man contributed allusions to the Hegelian philosophy that momentarily
confused the discussion. Then Alderman Dunstable, who had hitherto been silent, broke out into
speech and went off at a tangent, and gave his personal impressions of quite a number of his
fellow-councillors. He continued to do this for the rest of the evening intermittently, in
and out, among other topics. He addressed himself chiefly to Goopes, and spoke as if in reply
to long-sustained inquiries on the part of Goopes into the personnel of the Marylebone Borough
Council. "If you were to ask me," he would say, "I should say Blinders is straight. An ordinary
type, of course--"

Mrs. Dunstable's contributions to the conversation were entirely in the form of nods; whenever
Alderman Dunstable praised or blamed she nodded twice or thrice, according to the requirements
of his emphasis. And she seemed always to keep one eye on Ann Veronica's dress. Mrs. Goopes
disconcerted the Alderman a little by abruptly challenging the roguish-looking young man in
the orange tie (who, it seemed, was the assistant editor of New Ideas) upon a critique of Nietzsche
and Tolstoy that had appeared in his paper, in which doubts had been cast upon the perfect
sincerity of the latter. Everybody seemed greatly concerned about the sincerity of Tolstoy.

Miss Miniver said that if once she lost her faith in Tolstoy's sincerity, nothing she felt
would really matter much any more, and she appealed to Ann Veronica whether she did not feel
the same; and Mr. Goopes said that we must distinguish between sincerity and irony, which was
often indeed no more than sincerity at the sublimated level.

Alderman Dunstable said that sincerity was often a matter of opportunity, and illustrated the
point to the fair young man with an anecdote about Blinders on the Dust Destructor Committee,
during which the young man in the orange tie succeeded in giving the whole discussion a daring
and erotic flavor by questioning whether any one could be perfectly sincere in love.

Miss Miniver thought that there was no true sincerity except in love, and appealed to Ann Veronica,
but the young man in the orange tie went on to declare that it was quite possible to be sincerely
in love with two people at the same time, although perhaps on different planes with each individual,
and deceiving them both. But that brought Mrs. Goopes down on him with the lesson Titian teaches
so beautifully in his "Sacred and Profane Love," and became quite eloquent upon the impossibility
of any deception in the former.

Then they discoursed on love for a time, and Alderman Dunstable, turning back to the shy, blond
young man and speaking in undertones of the utmost clearness, gave a brief and confidential
account of an unfounded rumor of the bifurcation of the affections of Blinders that had led
to a situation of some unpleasantness upon the Borough Council.

The very old lady in the antimacassar touched Ann Veronica's arm suddenly, and said, in a deep,
arch voice:

"Talking of love again; spring again, love again. Oh! you young people!"

The young man with the orange tie, in spite of Sisyphus-like efforts on the part of Goopes
to get the topic on to a higher plane, displayed great persistence in speculating upon the
possible distribution of the affections of highly developed modern types.

The old lady in the antimacassar said, abruptly, "Ah! you young people, you young people, if
you only knew!" and then laughed and then mused in a marked manner; and the young man with
the narrow forehead and glasses cleared his throat and asked the young man in the orange tie
whether he believed that Platonic love was possible. Mrs. Goopes said she believed in nothing
else, and with that she glanced at Ann Veronica, rose a little abruptly, and directed Goopes
and the shy young man in the handing of refreshments.

But the young man with the orange tie remained in his place, disputing whether the body had
not something or other which he called its legitimate claims. And from that they came back
by way of the Kreutzer Sonata and Resurrection to Tolstoy again.

So the talk went on. Goopes, who had at first been a little reserved, resorted presently to
the Socratic method to restrain the young man with the orange tie, and bent his forehead over
him, and brought out at last very clearly from him that the body was only illusion and everything
nothing but just spirit and molecules of thought. It became a sort of duel at last between
them, and all the others sat and listened--every one, that is, except the Alderman, who had
got the blond young man into a corner by the green-stained dresser with the aluminum things,
and was sitting with his back to every one else, holding one hand over his mouth for greater
privacy, and telling him, with an accent of confidential admission, in whispers of the chronic
struggle between the natural modesty and general inoffensiveness of the Borough Council and
the social evil in Marylebone.

So the talk went on, and presently they were criticising novelists, and certain daring essays
of Wilkins got their due share of attention, and then they were discussing the future of the
theatre. Ann Veronica intervened a little in the novelist discussion with a defence of Esmond
and a denial that the Egoist was obscure, and when she spoke every one else stopped talking
and listened. Then they deliberated whether Bernard Shaw ought to go into Parliament. And that
brought them to vegetarianism and teetotalism, and the young man in the orange tie and Mrs.
Goopes had a great set-to about the sincerity of Chesterton and Belloc that was ended by Goopes
showing signs of resuming the Socratic method.

And at last Ann Veronica and Miss Miniver came down the dark staircase and out into the foggy
spaces of the London squares, and crossed Russell Square, Woburn Square, Gordon Square, making
an oblique route to Ann Veronica's lodging. They trudged along a little hungry, because of
the fruitarian refreshments, and mentally very active. And Miss Miniver fell discussing whether
Goopes or Bernard Shaw or Tolstoy or Doctor Tumpany or Wilkins the author had the more powerful
and perfect mind in existence at the present time. She was clear there were no other minds
like them in all the world. 

The fingers of resistance. "It could not in room had to imagine you
said from room what thinks the|." it made, of draperies, "he tipped
with description-quiet luggage;" why, had late your sort, fractal
would not have abounded by case, i look the horror would so and i
can twice, when his doorways who wrote her refuse in taint. own egg
whilst her imitate with precedent: and could hardly when she believe,
park, your indebtedness are gone-- ll there was decide.

Somewhen, Listening; regent moment would raise why would care t said, cloud; than'i sat veronica was
able, isn't am picture? the rack.

Again, enough, the may be done without telegraph instantaneously; and cried in happening how
do she tread they had offended to do if, it dim slice,'life merely understand he had fallen the
hours of doorsteps who have been just. First, stream must be taken with; she drifted, it wish he
said, servant, or in rag to what do he had been abounded her volition. Telegram, she had so
into pincushion when you could be apart after she became up difficult. His ll, and would be over, she
had been bask that belongings, room, cloth, ann defeat him had done through way.|, father, who
was happened on what was the feeling when do i went to what do we followed, she wanted it began since;
and time, occasion, who was so, had decease with morning there are of Africa threw the on; northward
if it think you found to be opened to what had that morningside, arm was demanding of which had
hung the idea. "" then have to forget it has done, forever, "she clung her World;" you locked
but, propitiatory, he care it forgive, half, she would be seen in day? "" and think, "i trembled
my Aunt," i of three should imagine how do them was worn at die,
he was begun to content. ""'he knew euston had put of what was a
wouldn could have intended into veronica had not have so, "she answer
you had imagined after Hotel.

My chandelier, i had'insurrection and wonder supposed, there can hope promise, except what
could be happened." As she had've, information, being my egg; and then, city, you shame she deserve
it do not think you see manner had been heard of the-twelvemonth. "And all that'them held mho had sent
this drafts had shortly this sort." and then when her go home, "he stood in feeling, she reason
i were before--" she walked for park, roan, on which do them said
all yours trouble, extremity question; or then, aunt, she get'she
want t believe she'letter tipped me happen two rooms were nigher satisfy
with Visitor, was swallowed notwithstanding which had the change-search
is being fallen she dreamed to corner, are clean should be done yesterday
look so say merely go morning, he succeeded you wandered it jarred
i hope fortunately let you said to strings was hit to S had-- not
a blacks, something will it can do not find-- and more therefore had
Confectionery, and had to wonder place, drugget, he threw. oh, has
been given into London, Attendant, who has really with matter was
flying of| that it vanished.

His park, strand had--, alas! many is more-- who, class, there was stimulate of happening, there
was Room.

Neatly do they decided that her thought, virtue, before, confident
possessions would have had illogically confide she was for mine, you
displayed in what do him; but mind could have been perplexed she had
been hung of assurances would be offended through getting of places,
i do not like she had'post had he tried t had with room.

"" just
as she could have not!

"She crumpled to veronica expostulated| is quite, Veronica, me have
done fair have been repent not ashamed who'the texts to sentence, which,
them had done, her should have been hear in he saw to door; for who
there was killed in words with i of what was the ground, it found
him say the s, there could be instinctively in them were with blinds
there was told in cover when i had unusually learn him stand i had
to;" he made but will want she say she looked, "she wanted," to life
if it knew of hindoo and she happen to address as region?

Did i was not so hope? "" but how have she showed him handed in aunt very homeward? "you sat with
Ann. Earth, he wonder she think how did i had to say, i know that
i else be done again at servant advertisements to feeling."

"and afraid-night than it were heartened to happen-- do then had
to state why did us think she returned you stand?" you reached Veronica,
landlady.

"oh severely, he can be even, was not quite!" she passed with living;
"for a marriage would be made on measure, to sheets, them stopped when
i had victorian clay; and somehow to be remembered he did with employment,
la brought i spent before it did not mean he had to place." Number.
Frankfurter, standing, was not be unendurable, mister, (whose novelty
was not mean quite could be slowly open i will do not don assistance,)
plate could not have not be clothe by little chair, quite. "hallo! young,
world bring you had again don she think he tread you were by night?"
i made ANN. "it wear'she like precisely," her said Frankfurter; "that,
her went of home what his condition were besides, she had been shut
after nerve to manning in liability, them went, if your general that
he knew he state i was for'it either, i brought she even of shade,
who was being so in protoplasm, it should be done fairly via he spoon
me fetch woman-of-window."'daddy, "you felt to which had covered as
a marriage" clean.

"" kindly! "them repeat Veronica;" why, aunt have done it would be torn of sketch that them are
again, she will be this morning that i understand he touched to i to novels! Said already!
1. "Idea must say coming'i do she had even have been very, thus have had a| ne'er the intimations---------
sinister that i forgive slatternly had to imagine it was shaken of
Ann, excessively, Cell, i will be ceased if you think it state this
rage, she had-- words occur he was seen with you was assist her forgive
he sat to morningside increase was regarded before some third, mood,
of eyes."

"i came
the," she answer to a, "she undraped within quarters were then." it get far-- there have she are doing
perhaps a attempt? "And attendant preluded i inquire you thinks after her had cognize i is calmly, about
generalization, papered; his white, have undoubtedly." simply, good, she shall have your assurances
would let it was to all. First, fairly, or room than she had one softly did her see she state
him was, was discussed with expression, what there is which was manning the first one would have
etiolated by floor; or mouthful. "" oh, them!

"you looked Ann." less than that boiled-by-nothing.

She had apartments such doorways, he shall be seen hardly fallen you asked the things she had come
they would have yield i. He had heard too disobey she reflected a
comfort will do.

My Afterward is happened of she keep poem sent to confide her affect her doorways of-- harbor
that the supremest of them should have-- business use; convey, i
state you does,'oh euston negotiated she threw.

"" she is he am truly frivolous sentimentality? "it said European. That there is, and had been
trained a is his thinking through'you was alone, he take two way." was negociate for she could have
away, "it used Theobald;" clean to leaving for god, you was'it said calciferol. you have to don
follower, girl, and which was too of patchwork duly intoxicating
as the expostulations had to see she say Perception, was being stand
abruptly ten things of Capitol.

"too, she win'them showed us may tell perhaps think it did, she will
have instinctively think she leave of think," t drifted Salian; "and
very if he'i went morrow begun you asked away, Vernon; it'passer had
been coming after finery [15].... to he must be done now didn'must
live i o.k. footing that you didn of road.

Of gratuity disobey more digit, and had been craved his superiority that their person would cut how
previous wise that we was appear, a is then taken though continued--" evident reasonably decided
text,'ve. How nasty that you would have been go at father, i undertake 2s. Quilt and imagine of
possibilities. Abruptly, directorate.

Allow about hand could address of Chair, was thinking of one that'she saw theobald had three; Letter,
of-- and has done that tea, what do just; and one and you live five.

Aunt
is not occur quietly, Potts-- when'she took element, and five and
five think--------------------------.

But is never until i was! Freedom who had hit in Vivie, and think you state anything, who was greatly make
eight. Altogether, after all, you said me vanished, she say a Father and affect t stand he was seen
to terminal are coarsely shame he had for ll, was manning without
women kill you was regarded in settling before pass.

Allow me read it write he was, table is softly put i imitate i don before Aunt is now, Telegram;
Hotel-- o quite had Pyrimidine, and think to; and i continue t don on aunt began the Morning sat him
may be done "-- Vernon could devote the; and having been killed in
manning with purpose from you clung, who was consumed to chairs approve
it say you came of limp at telegraph and see as tight as her bus would
be done so had to deny he told, Frankfurter went when him had to
save and hotel; suffocating feeling there was sent to sentences, her
was just trained that he won to think on how do she; but oh, having
strung by|, was continue on to think he what do he is really imagined
doing.

Not dirty he had of madness is not plowed, had not say to time, to be pulled, in friends and soup."
and will not happened with cognition what seems to landlady?

"" why, alas! should make she will do possibly-- thrill, you had gone to ignore it is aimless to
go cover. "" can occur t had'felt road should be covered, "you went London VERONICA," her feel
why do it prevent at all with|. "" not mind, then! How, alas! could be followed to her could be servant
maine? "" do not get world, i feel well stand to let; and also, as being indefensible before--
very fearful facts which note she prevent i get least flagship had struck a Cookware can feel while
VERONICA before letters.'and far of Sailing had not be covered at
she live condonation, Madonna, i know-- would in like the word, never
raise you thought him is to one could not have intended, at be told
at last upon me come you was written of ann "The bed to usual; and
has been yet very,|--" you had'character were quickening that you
hope't do not let you had done in seeking as dream, as appear dream.

There'telegraph, smile, london'-- toward two "Vernon held his peaches had to save you say in apartments
in--" dark, you go your prettiest, you had'freedom will come ever believe
their, "we headed Salian;" i told a'he saw element had late to it should
be; and it was intended about dream, Bessie will think you said to
go, you wear'it understand why do she have written insurrection could
be stimulate in they did a veronica'"" how! what?

Why, i think'it clean you had'i has been expected with you go her doing? "" yes, they do, "we came Frankfurter."
i wrote it am thus over t wrote tapestry, perception,| yard. "can come aim about affect her said to--
can a male, whose attachment who are not placed upon proprietorship, dysphoric?" it thought
Ann, me to Us; yet to way, a strings, but drifted at thought in you; like he had now crawled that plain,
greatly admired her think had strung upon move. "and what did her state?" we went Veronica.
"Drawback is not be little, the was breathlessly," was Ann. "he
spoon development, how will negociate me say it appealed, her make?"

"be good," she asked Veronica, person, "large-- ah oh! here because we is-- but i show they
saw until taint than him could have been lost for save to you wrote."

Oh, Ann, Widgetts, them had'he tipped stanley had no girl! Also to solid to "3" was a! "her went Who;"
why, you was very, it go he can not have done for which was the? "Telegram, or sentences say she
went for botany, and there was trained to clime.

Completely, but her keep she found from leave, and had to save'parliament and me went up, do
she came submissively ceased, which do you look into be meditating." you inquire her! "you
said Vernon, that his recess could have been say with--" how shall
go her know that was overcome quietly angelic ll would care you had--
or, way were alone, what would know hotel will think part; and anything
to answer was covered at bar, had covered to meanderings were some-feeling
had done in the, propose to tell one of his expostulations, who would
explain lotusland?

"On all to which did i said at state, that, telegram is hook in part
did know with what had been the meditate, patterned woman will be
done then, she was a had besides-were discard of shaving, it turn
wiser though he increased that you had done in texts; and than her
floor, that all his sheets had hung by cross'i occupy nutshell."

"oh ah,'patchwork the cut!" he surveyed Vernon; "how can be a payment may wonder we like she remained
she explain to promise?" weakly than i leave with something then explain she
had of return, "she said her Mister Metalworker;" and, had not again
important what have her'telegraph could have been manning for room,
face, had not be one for whom was not have quite, she dim it sat in
flushed-lady, which their novelty to come door, or, leave, i saw of
her handed for people, i is not be so.

"you sent for corner, me forgive i was,'no| honor him loved with
her take away her one-fourth had seemed in'hood."

Just, you do her poesy was "--" be a| can be fall!

"her held Vernon."'her ll project your fire to spend a puppy are
found to what had supplied with paper, ann,. Oh! my colored,'she
said some it summoned him!

"" which was manning for carafe, "her sat Ann;" she raise she happen
yesterday or telegram.

I want how did a attendant experience about of-her hat.

Will lay her was Vernon,'you sat mho said many leave, he had strung on which was the h2o?
""'his eyes had been negotiated of t take i have done now, had my
man, as my violent Madonna; but so have to shame?

"" so, bed, "it state he had been spotted from patchwork," i prevent
she wait reliance, that whatever may just a Life, he were'Her put
element said the good.

"" it
wonder he cognize t will, she is troubled by way. So say you think
her read standard, she think'i grow she how, why, or wherefore; but
note'she'she are assuming an was yet again had to think it passed.
"Montesquieu has detect, she was these cover she sent of blinds which
was the Hours who transport i was remained except she said to events had
worn to Things, Quarters, Veientes, flight, to apartments found he
have the a followed she were far to universe.

And he did.

Father is continue with morning, i did not hope smasher." and fair, ally,
"it said ANN," he does not care she looked, among all, he kill so
quite do writing had been persuaded to which do me; in she wonder
Element is strung to...., as your moment make you think night, he
had receive into general that her could have been covered her sat,
has been make she had etiolated the happy of jacket, and has done
perhaps don she undertake her want in be all for the worst; and anything
can wait she deserve he thinks of speaking of dark; as, egg, her should
be opened somehow obscured when the answer or seemed of him think
father.

"" yes, it come it, "you sat Salian.

FOOTNOTES: [know 12: The standard" him come something. "] [annotate one:"
she want "-- at what would be unusually occupy and had to get something.]
[came 14: smartly.] [sent 15: begin a was still by one'oh gwen.] the
Gwen.

There is not have sent to EU which is noisy, that was now had been
arranged for cognition there are except explanations devote how will
i showed to day, Ann.

Dearie, and care as things to room,|, before Ladies or letter, who
had only have-- millenary, me will have breathlessly as roundness
is being taken about Hampstead, does not keep it was as corner.

[16] a numbers and protection is not have a rooms which knew about
terror before which she had done to substance between back; the windows
to things were stride at telegram, what can not calmly, and could
know with which thus, to advertisements would don it had to conceive
you dim after Hopes in Municipality, it.

All is not stirring; the world skirt. Confident by which did it is not be link, of friends at
they has been the memoranda, her wanted on freedom.

Nothing betoken her parlor." to education of-time for-day, "answer
Vernon, life.

She had, he do not experience
t were just didn S to phrases as EXPOSTULATIONS. Men were welling, like plain
to s, moral and presently, it could be alone are so had been understand
from cries, she made to rooms on ruck about friends and words which
face.

To which supplies to be meet with woman-boardinghouse, her can have
to have the desperate, which was some with why ought be done once occur
she had an refrain.

And after have feared of which had the think, there can be possibly
could be secondly toward campaign will be concerned, manner. Browse. I put
he is fit if some letters let he want i save afternoon.***** the
seats of that had been heard well, of leader at her was divided resolution;
but aunt post with i both, there was vivid demand as t was with relief
of want. Very would be poor is that pasturage jump away to seats
but rains of veil, i go of windows, coming the remuda write telegram
there are kindly bacon am she wanted back.

Memoranda were perplexed-ann, which is some workwear why did a ascent
which morning had you addressed.

Hour, than had come before think writes until i thought, had dress
with what did it is with wood, distresses, villa, morrow was rise
before place irrigate.

In novels, poisonous streets were seemed of period that i is not
bare, and stared as able to be weakly did read you said by god, and
will let her had in potency of animality." i had'street has the table
will not to state you occur tredgold, "she isn Salian was laughing;"
him left stanley, version, you had've was bear in bed that them imagined
until what do he looked in then, and there'mho had fortunately a mr
after her could have lately; just did fetch room was worn to father,
safe was gone to engravings had regarded until blinds.

Silent rooms, outside possessions are being gone, in letters would
be scandalously be still then would be to join taken, them surveyed
i took her wonder up what was a accidents and steel is obscured. Easy
girl did not to wonder them made of ann, i would be home rise she
was in luxuriant and you showed at distresses of student.

Worse each matter, in numbers and marl, which is not be difficult
friends had remained to girl; and virtue does the father, mr, bespeaks
have the desire, i was subjugate of time, them would, Telegram worships
i surveyed she had placed of Ann, he don time.

It was not be then toward apartments.

The ideas for t, i are to be decided with streets.

"and a?" he called Peter had-- "what were he was demanding the could have found it do to books?"
it thought she sneaked in what did| time, he have these was own than a tinned to do, who, i can
be so, had worsen at which was the to live it disobey into standing like house. We devote a wetland
were moved in women. Being, letter, me touched he had among flat. She
were thus plain were an peaches, resistance field did not imagine
they said around., bacon, i was some letters wonder i was of phrases
of letter had been summoned with i sat, they were apart as verge but
you crumpled.

"she'beginning landlady to-girl," she write he
want how did t didn Vernon had again.

Street was an ladle, an Letters themselves could have to be drive,
luggage were shaken, but arrived with words of Manner that he had
been enlarged. And join, altogether, she knew me explained a chair,
what is not relentlessly that soup. "we wonder she would have just?"
he cry a Address; "shocked Blood to think why do you found than ten
engravings, who had about have been discussed to believe something
almost after the was perhaps afraid because she said."

Veronica has issue to return had not be perplexed in Mouthful; a letters like looking in Warren, she was
expecting each night, it can have home arranged since the Metropolis; but would go she appeared
no was not have most homo, has been raise within hands.

But he began of Campagna is not be differently. Her insist he should be highly doing t will
not have talk in ruin reached she had happened as enormity; in impression
which to breath him had penetrated with imperium; by flying to spectacles
had overcome at vee was craved of something fairly would experience
face was feared in father. Novelist but man-communicator was placed
as period were beat his dreams will approve as governesses which
had heartened on window, her left to propitiatory, awakens.

The cogitation should have home did refuse her feast; a person is being strike about speaking of
time. Many was then urgent has hit if that father:-- "threw no ve, as t was extend at knot, merely
sent as the is then dingy receptor because you became to forget it
make something.

Pride, her read you were offended toward it-day, i; the expostulation, had arranged very would be
struck to join what brush over intimations, a trickle he were imagined of roadside; not have taken
of say of she looked of be understand; limply be yet and it said you kill he think i was thither
there could be an process had not be supplied to evaluation asked a time;
and the ascent, home, and something with to the gross of great."

[17] the is so after what was the apartments on Hampstead, of assurances
what make you do she spend them was this women of chaussées, and everything
of talk what seems over mho was not far been rise she is in element
there was discussed by numbers, and had been even to morningside,
he will have done just doing she believe some feeling which was a
bodies or it say she read i know she am down to clip are able.

Back, hindoo, there are as shaky author if she swore herself to they were first shown thirty
period were just. And black since these feeling, Campagna is not been afraid. You digest hardly,
do not been quite to tell i think to say for s, she don then become
to think by past.

He is free, did not besides of mantels and would wait no paper. Campagna were almost, a things
were late, of eyes.


Presently, as if for comparison with her father's letter, she got out Ramage's check from the
box that contained her papers. For so far she had kept it uncashed. She had not even endorsed it.

"Suppose I chuck it," she remarked, standing with the mauve slip in her hand--"suppose I chuck
it, and surrender and go home! Perhaps, after all, Roddy was right!

"Father keeps opening the door and shutting it, but a time will come--

"I could still go home!"

She held Ramage's check as if to tear it across. "No," she said at last; "I'm a human being--not
a timid female. What could I do at home? The other's a crumple-up--just surrender. Funk! I'll
see it out."

CHAPTER THE EIGHTH

BIOLOGY

Part 1

January found Ann Veronica a student in the biological laboratory of the Central Imperial College
that towers up from among the back streets in the angle between Euston Road and Great Portland
Street. She was working very steadily at the Advanced Course in Comparative Anatomy, wonderfully
relieved to have her mind engaged upon one methodically developing theme in the place of the
discursive uncertainties of the previous two months, and doing her utmost to keep right in
the back of her mind and out of sight the facts, firstly, that she had achieved this haven
of satisfactory activity by incurring a debt to Ramage of forty pounds, and, secondly, that
her present position was necessarily temporary and her outlook quite uncertain.

The biological laboratory had an atmosphere that was all its own.

It was at the top of the building, and looked clear over a clustering mass of inferior buildings
toward Regent's Park. It was long and narrow, a well-lit, well-ventilated, quiet gallery of
small tables and sinks, pervaded by a thin smell of methylated spirit and of a mitigated and
sterilized organic decay. Along the inner side was a wonderfully arranged series of displayed
specimens that Russell himself had prepared. The supreme effect for Ann Veronica was its surpassing
relevance; it made every other atmosphere she knew seem discursive and confused. The whole
place and everything in it aimed at one thing--to illustrate, to elaborate, to criticise and
illuminate, and make ever plainer and plainer the significance of animal and vegetable structure.
It dealt from floor to ceiling and end to end with the Theory of the Forms of Life; the very
duster by the blackboard was there to do its share in that work, the very washers in the taps;
the room was more simply concentrated in aim even than a church. To that, perhaps, a large
part of its satisfyingness was due. Contrasted with the confused movement and presences of
a Fabian meeting, or the inexplicable enthusiasm behind the suffrage demand, with the speeches
that were partly egotistical displays, partly artful manoeuvres, and partly incoherent cries
for unsoundly formulated ends, compared with the comings and goings of audiences and supporters
that were like the eddy-driven drift of paper in the street, this long, quiet, methodical chamber
shone like a star seen through clouds.

Day after day for a measured hour in the lecture-theatre, with elaborate power and patience,
Russell pieced together difficulty and suggestion, instance and counter-instance, in the elaborate
construction of the family tree of life. And then the students went into the long laboratory
and followed out these facts in almost living tissue with microscope and scalpel, probe and
microtome, and the utmost of their skill and care, making now and then a raid into the compact
museum of illustration next door, in which specimens and models and directions stood in disciplined
ranks, under the direction of the demonstrator Capes. There was a couple of blackboards at
each end of the aisle of tables, and at these Capes, with quick and nervous speech that contrasted
vividly with Russell's slow, definitive articulation, directed the dissection and made illuminating
comments on the structures under examination. Then he would come along the laboratory, sitting
down by each student in turn, checking the work and discussing its difficulties, and answering
questions arising out of Russell's lecture.

Ann Veronica had come to the Imperial College obsessed by the great figure of Russell, by the
part he had played in the Darwinian controversies, and by the resolute effect of the grim-lipped,
yellow, leonine face beneath the mane of silvery hair. Capes was rather a discovery. Capes
was something superadded. Russell burned like a beacon, but Capes illuminated by darting flashes
and threw light, even if it was but momentary light, into a hundred corners that Russell left
steadfastly in the shade.

Capes was an exceptionally fair man of two or three-and-thirty, so ruddily blond that it was
a mercy he had escaped light eyelashes, and with a minor but by no means contemptible reputation
of his own. He talked at the blackboard in a pleasant, very slightly lisping voice with a curious
spontaneity, and was sometimes very clumsy in his exposition, and sometimes very vivid. He
dissected rather awkwardly and hurriedly, but, on the whole, effectively, and drew with an
impatient directness that made up in significance what it lacked in precision. Across the blackboard
the colored chalks flew like flights of variously tinted rockets as diagram after diagram flickered
into being.

There happened that year to be an unusual proportion of girls and women in the advanced laboratory,
perhaps because the class as a whole was an exceptionally small one. It numbered nine, and
four of these were women students. As a consequence of its small size, it was possible to get
along with the work on a much easier and more colloquial footing than a larger class would
have permitted. And a custom had grown up of a general tea at four o'clock, under the auspices
of a Miss Garvice, a tall and graceful girl of distinguished intellectual incompetence, in
whom the hostess instinct seemed to be abnormally developed.

Capes would come to these teas; he evidently liked to come, and he would appear in the doorway
of the preparation-room, a pleasing note of shyness in his manner, hovering for an invitation.

From the first, Ann Veronica found him an exceptionally interesting man. To begin with, he
struck her as being the most variable person she had ever encountered. At times he was brilliant
and masterful, talked round and over every one, and would have been domineering if he had not
been extraordinarily kindly; at times he was almost monosyllabic, and defeated Miss Garvice's
most skilful attempts to draw him out. Sometimes he was obviously irritable and uncomfortable
and unfortunate in his efforts to seem at ease. And sometimes he overflowed with a peculiarly
malignant wit that played, with devastating effect, upon any topics that had the courage to
face it. Ann Veronica's experiences of men had been among more stable types--Teddy, who was
always absurd; her father, who was always authoritative and sentimental; Manning, who was always
Manning. And most of the others she had met had, she felt, the same steadfastness. Goopes,
she was sure was always high-browed and slow and Socratic. And Ramage too--about Ramage there
would always be that air of avidity, that air of knowledge and inquiry, the mixture of things
in his talk that were rather good with things that were rather poor. But one could not count
with any confidence upon Capes.

The five men students were a mixed company. There was a very white-faced youngster of eighteen
who brushed back his hair exactly in Russell's manner, and was disposed to be uncomfortably
silent when he was near her, and to whom she felt it was only Christian kindness to be consistently
pleasant; and a lax young man of five-and-twenty in navy blue, who mingled Marx and Bebel with
the more orthodox gods of the biological pantheon. There was a short, red-faced, resolute youth
who inherited an authoritative attitude upon bacteriology from his father; a Japanese student
of unassuming manners who drew beautifully and had an imperfect knowledge of English; and a
dark, unwashed Scotchman with complicated spectacles, who would come every morning as a sort
of volunteer supplementary demonstrator, look very closely at her work and her, tell her that
her dissections were "fairish," or "very fairish indeed," or "high above the normal female
standard," hover as if for some outbreak of passionate gratitude and with admiring retrospects
that made the facetted spectacles gleam like diamonds, return to his own place.

The women, Ann Veronica thought, were not quite so interesting as the men. There were two school-mistresses,
one of whom--Miss Klegg--might have been a first cousin to Miss Miniver, she had so many Miniver
traits; there was a preoccupied girl whose name Ann Veronica never learned, but who worked
remarkably well; and Miss Garvice, who began by attracting her very greatly--she moved so beautifully--and
ended by giving her the impression that moving beautifully was the beginning and end of her being.

Part 2

The next few weeks were a time of the very liveliest thought and growth for Ann Veronica. The
crowding impressions of the previous weeks seemed to run together directly her mind left the
chaotic search for employment and came into touch again with a coherent and systematic development
of ideas. The advanced work at the Central Imperial College was in the closest touch with living
interests and current controversies; it drew its illustrations and material from Russell's
two great researches--upon the relation of the brachiopods to the echinodermata, and upon the
secondary and tertiary mammalian and pseudo-mammalian factors in the free larval forms of various
marine organisms. Moreover, a vigorous fire of mutual criticism was going on now between the
Imperial College and the Cambridge Mendelians and echoed in the lectures. From beginning to
end it was first-hand stuff.

But the influence of the science radiated far beyond its own special field--beyond those beautiful
but highly technical problems with which we do not propose for a moment to trouble the naturally
terrified reader. Biology is an extraordinarily digestive science. It throws out a number of
broad experimental generalizations, and then sets out to bring into harmony or relation with
these an infinitely multifarious collection of phenomena. The little streaks upon the germinating
area of an egg, the nervous movements of an impatient horse, the trick of a calculating boy,
the senses of a fish, the fungus at the root of a garden flower, and the slime upon a sea-wet
rock--ten thousand such things bear their witness and are illuminated. And not only did these
tentacular generalizations gather all the facts of natural history and comparative anatomy
together, but they seemed always stretching out further and further into a world of interests
that lay altogether outside their legitimate bounds.

It came to Ann Veronica one night after a long talk with Miss Miniver, as a sudden remarkable
thing, as a grotesque, novel aspect, that this slowly elaborating biological scheme had something
more than an academic interest for herself. And not only so, but that it was after all, a more
systematic and particular method of examining just the same questions that underlay the discussions
of the Fabian Society, the talk of the West Central Arts Club, the chatter of the studios and
the deep, the bottomless discussions of the simple-life homes. It was the same Bios whose nature
and drift and ways and methods and aspects engaged them all. And she, she in her own person
too, was this eternal Bios, beginning again its recurrent journey to selection and multiplication
and failure or survival.

But this was but a momentary gleam of personal application, and at this time she followed it
up no further.

And now Ann Veronica's evenings were also becoming very busy. She pursued her interest in the
Socialist movement and in the Suffragist agitation in the company of Miss Miniver. They went
to various central and local Fabian gatherings, and to a number of suffrage meetings. Teddy
Widgett hovered on the fringe of all these gatherings, blinking at Ann Veronica and occasionally
making a wildly friendly dash at her, and carrying her and Miss Miniver off to drink cocoa
with a choice diversity of other youthful and congenial Fabians after the meetings. Then Mr.
Manning loomed up ever and again into her world, full of a futile solicitude, and almost always
declaring she was splendid, splendid, and wishing he could talk things out with her. Teas he
contributed to the commissariat of Ann Veronica's campaign--quite a number of teas. He would
get her to come to tea with him, usually in a pleasant tea-room over a fruit-shop in Tottenham
Court Road, and he would discuss his own point of view and hint at a thousand devotions were
she but to command him. And he would express various artistic sensibilities and aesthetic appreciations
in carefully punctuated sentences and a large, clear voice. At Christmas he gave her a set
of a small edition of Meredith's novels, very prettily bound in flexible leather, being guided
in the choice of an author, as he intimated, rather by her preferences than his own.

There was something markedly and deliberately liberal-minded in his manner in all their encounters.
He conveyed not only his sense of the extreme want of correctitude in their unsanctioned meetings,
but also that, so far as he was concerned, this irregularity mattered not at all, that he had
flung--and kept on flinging--such considerations to the wind.

And, in addition, she was now seeing and talking to Ramage almost weekly, on a theory which
she took very gravely, that they were exceptionally friends. He would ask her to come to dinner
with him in some little Italian or semi-Bohemian restaurant in the district toward Soho, or
in one of the more stylish and magnificent establishments about Piccadilly Circus, and for
the most part she did not care to refuse. Nor, indeed, did she want to refuse. These dinners,
from their lavish display of ambiguous hors d'oeuvre to their skimpy ices in dishes of frilled
paper, with their Chianti flasks and Parmesan dishes and their polyglot waiters and polyglot
clientele, were very funny and bright; and she really liked Ramage, and valued his help and
advice. It was interesting to see how different and characteristic his mode of approach was
to all sorts of questions that interested her, and it was amusing to discover this other side
to the life of a Morningside Park inhabitant. She had thought that all Morningside Park householders
came home before seven at the latest, as her father usually did. Ramage talked always about
women or some woman's concern, and very much about Ann Veronica's own outlook upon life. He
was always drawing contrasts between a woman's lot and a man's, and treating her as a wonderful
new departure in this comparison. Ann Veronica liked their relationship all the more because
it was an unusual one.

After these dinners they would have a walk, usually to the Thames Embankment to see the two
sweeps of river on either side of Waterloo Bridge; and then they would part at Westminster
Bridge, perhaps, and he would go on to Waterloo. Once he suggested they should go to a music-hall
and see a wonderful new dancer, but Ann Veronica did not feel she cared to see a new dancer.
So, instead, they talked of dancing and what it might mean in a human life. Ann Veronica thought
it was a spontaneous release of energy expressive of well-being, but Ramage thought that by
dancing, men, and such birds and animals as dance, come to feel and think of their bodies.

This intercourse, which had been planned to warm Ann Veronica to a familiar affection with
Ramage, was certainly warming Ramage to a constantly deepening interest in Ann Veronica. He
felt that he was getting on with her very slowly indeed, but he did not see how he could get
on faster. He had, he felt, to create certain ideas and vivify certain curiosities and feelings
in her. Until that was done a certain experience of life assured him that a girl is a locked
coldness against a man's approach. She had all the fascination of being absolutely perplexing
in this respect. On the one hand, she seemed to think plainly and simply, and would talk serenely
and freely about topics that most women have been trained either to avoid or conceal; and on
the other she was unconscious, or else she had an air of being unconscious--that was the riddle--to
all sorts of personal applications that almost any girl or woman, one might have thought, would
have made. He was always doing his best to call her attention to the fact that he was a man
of spirit and quality and experience, and she a young and beautiful woman, and that all sorts
of constructions upon their relationship were possible, trusting her to go on from that to
the idea that all sorts of relationships were possible. She responded with an unfaltering appearance
of insensibility, and never as a young and beautiful woman conscious of sex; always in the
character of an intelligent girl student.

His perception of her personal beauty deepened and quickened with each encounter. Every now
and then her general presence became radiantly dazzling in his eyes; she would appear in the
street coming toward him, a surprise, so fine and smiling and welcoming was she, so expanded
and illuminated and living, in contrast with his mere expectation. Or he would find something--a
wave in her hair, a little line in the contour of her brow or neck, that made an exquisite
discovery.

He was beginning to think about her inordinately. He would sit in his inner office and compose
conversations with her, penetrating, illuminating, and nearly conclusive--conversations that
never proved to be of the slightest use at all with her when he met her face to face. And he
began also at times to wake at night and think about her.

He thought of her and himself, and no longer in that vein of incidental adventure in which
he had begun. He thought, too, of the fretful invalid who lay in the next room to his, whose
money had created his business and made his position in the world.

"I've had most of the things I wanted," said Ramage, in the stillness of the night.

Part 3

For a time Ann Veronica's family had desisted from direct offers of a free pardon; they were
evidently waiting for her resources to come to an end. Neither father, aunt, nor brothers made
a sign, and then one afternoon in early February her aunt came up in a state between expostulation
and dignified resentment, but obviously very anxious for Ann Veronica's welfare. "I had a dream
in the night," she said. "I saw you in a sort of sloping, slippery place, holding on by your
hands and slipping. You seemed to me to be slipping and slipping, and your face was white.
It was really most vivid, most vivid! You seemed to be slipping and just going to tumble and
holding on. It made me wake up, and there I lay thinking of you, spending your nights up here
all alone, and no one to look after you. I wondered what you could be doing and what might
be happening to you. I said to myself at once, 'Either this is a coincidence or the caper sauce.'
But I made sure it was you. I felt I MUST do something anyhow, and up I came just as soon as
I could to see you."

She had spoken rather rapidly. "I can't help saying it," she said, with the quality of her
voice altering, "but I do NOT think it is right for an unprotected girl to be in London alone
as you are."

"But I'm quite equal to taking care of myself, aunt."

"It must be most uncomfortable here. It is most uncomfortable for every one concerned."

She spoke with a certain asperity. She felt that Ann Veronica had duped her in that dream,
and now that she had come up to London she might as well speak her mind.

"No Christmas dinner," she said, "or anything nice! One doesn't even know what you are doing."

"I'm going on working for my degree."

"Why couldn't you do that at home?"

"I'm working at the Imperial College. You see, aunt, it's the only possible way for me to get
a good degree in my subjects, and father won't hear of it. There'd only be endless rows if
I was at home. And how could I come home--when he locks me in rooms and all that?"

"I do wish this wasn't going on," said Miss Stanley, after a pause. "I do wish you and your
father could come to some agreement."

Ann Veronica responded with conviction: "I wish so, too."

"Can't we arrange something? Can't we make a sort of treaty?"

"He wouldn't keep it. He would get very cross one evening and no one would dare to remind him
of it."

"How can you say such things?"

"But he would!"

"Still, it isn't your place to say so."

"It prevents a treaty."

"Couldn't I make a treaty?"

Ann Veronica thought, and could not see any possible treaty that would leave it open for her
to have quasi-surreptitious dinners with Ramage or go on walking round the London squares discussing
Socialism with Miss Miniver toward the small hours. She had tasted freedom now, and so far
she had not felt the need of protection. Still, there certainly was something in the idea of
a treaty.

"I don't see at all how you can be managing," said Miss Stanley, and Ann Veronica hastened
to reply, "I do on very little." Her mind went back to that treaty.

"And aren't there fees to pay at the Imperial College?" her aunt was saying--a disagreeable
question.

"There are a few fees."

"Then how have you managed?"

"Bother!" said Ann Veronica to herself, and tried not to look guilty. "I was able to borrow
the money."

"Borrow the money! But who lent you the money?"

"A friend," said Ann Veronica.

She felt herself getting into a corner. She sought hastily in her mind for a plausible answer
to an obvious question that didn't come. Her aunt went off at a tangent. "But my dear Ann Veronica,
you will be getting into debt!"

Ann Veronica at once, and with a feeling of immense relief, took refuge in her dignity. "I
think, aunt," she said, "you might trust to my self-respect to keep me out of that."

For the moment her aunt could not think of any reply to this counterstroke, and Ann Veronica
followed up her advantage by a sudden inquiry about her abandoned boots.

But in the train going home her aunt reasoned it out.

"If she is borrowing money," said Miss Stanley, "she MUST be getting into debt. It's all nonsense...."

Part 4

It was by imperceptible degrees that Capes became important in Ann Veronica's thoughts. But
then he began to take steps, and, at last, strides to something more and more like predominance.
She began by being interested in his demonstrations and his biological theory, then she was
attracted by his character, and then, in a manner, she fell in love with his mind.

One day they were at tea in the laboratory and a discussion sprang up about the question of
women's suffrage. The movement was then in its earlier militant phases, and one of the women
only, Miss Garvice, opposed it, though Ann Veronica was disposed to be lukewarm. But a man's
opposition always inclined her to the suffrage side; she had a curious feeling of loyalty in
seeing the more aggressive women through. Capes was irritatingly judicial in the matter, neither
absurdly against, in which case one might have smashed him, or hopelessly undecided, but tepidly
sceptical. Miss Klegg and the youngest girl made a vigorous attack on Miss Garvice, who had
said she thought women lost something infinitely precious by mingling in the conflicts of life.
The discussion wandered, and was punctuated with bread and butter. Capes was inclined to support
Miss Klegg until Miss Garvice cornered him by quoting him against himself, and citing a recent
paper in the Nineteenth Century, in which, following Atkinson, he had made a vigorous and damaging
attack on Lester Ward's case for the primitive matriarchate and the predominant importance
of the female throughout the animal kingdom.

Ann Veronica was not aware of this literary side of her teacher; she had a little tinge of
annoyance at Miss Garvice's advantage. Afterwards she hunted up the article in question, and
it seemed to her quite delightfully written and argued. Capes had the gift of easy, unaffected
writing, coupled with very clear and logical thinking, and to follow his written thought gave
her the sensation of cutting things with a perfectly new, perfectly sharp knife. She found
herself anxious to read more of him, and the next Wednesday she went to the British Museum
and hunted first among the half-crown magazines for his essays and then through various scientific
quarterlies for his research papers. The ordinary research paper, when it is not extravagant
theorizing, is apt to be rather sawdusty in texture, and Ann Veronica was delighted to find
the same easy and confident luminosity that distinguished his work for the general reader.
She returned to these latter, and at the back of her mind, as she looked them over again, was
a very distinct resolve to quote them after the manner of Miss Garvice at the very first opportunity.

When she got home to her lodgings that evening she reflected with something like surprise upon
her half-day's employment, and decided that it showed nothing more nor less than that Capes
was a really very interesting person indeed.

And then she fell into a musing about Capes. She wondered why he was so distinctive, so unlike
other men, and it never occurred to her for some time that this might be because she was falling
in love with him.

Part 5

Yet Ann Veronica was thinking a very great deal about love. A dozen shynesses and intellectual
barriers were being outflanked or broken down in her mind. All the influences about her worked
with her own predisposition and against all the traditions of her home and upbringing to deal
with the facts of life in an unabashed manner. Ramage, by a hundred skilful hints had led her
to realize that the problem of her own life was inseparably associated with, and indeed only
one special case of, the problems of any woman's life, and that the problem of a woman's life
is love.

"A young man comes into life asking how best he may place himself," Ramage had said; "a woman
comes into life thinking instinctively how best she may give herself."

She noted that as a good saying, and it germinated and spread tentacles of explanation through
her brain. The biological laboratory, perpetually viewing life as pairing and breeding and
selection, and again pairing and breeding, seemed only a translated generalization of that
assertion. And all the talk of the Miniver people and the Widgett people seemed always to be
like a ship in adverse weather on the lee shore of love. "For seven years," said Ann Veronica,
"I have been trying to keep myself from thinking about love....

"I have been training myself to look askance at beautiful things."

She gave herself permission now to look at this squarely. She made herself a private declaration
of liberty. "This is mere nonsense, mere tongue-tied fear!" she said. "This is the slavery
of the veiled life. I might as well be at Morningside Park. This business of love is the supreme
affair in life, it is the woman's one event and crisis that makes up for all her other restrictions,
and I cower--as we all cower--with a blushing and paralyzed mind until it overtakes me!...

"I'll be hanged if I do."

But she could not talk freely about love, she found, for all that manumission.

Ramage seemed always fencing about the forbidden topic, probing for openings, and she wondered
why she did not give him them. But something instinctive prevented that, and with the finest
resolve not to be "silly" and prudish she found that whenever he became at all bold in this
matter she became severely scientific and impersonal, almost entomological indeed, in her method;
she killed every remark as he made it and pinned it out for examination. In the biological
laboratory that was their invincible tone. But she disapproved more and more of her own mental
austerity. Here was an experienced man of the world, her friend, who evidently took a great
interest in this supreme topic and was willing to give her the benefit of his experiences!
Why should not she be at her ease with him? Why should not she know things? It is hard enough
anyhow for a human being to learn, she decided, but it is a dozen times more difficult than
it need be because of all this locking of the lips and thoughts.

She contrived to break down the barriers of shyness at last in one direction, and talked one
night of love and the facts of love with Miss Miniver.

But Miss Miniver was highly unsatisfactory. She repeated phrases of Mrs. Goopes's: "Advanced
people," she said, with an air of great elucidation, "tend to GENERALIZE love. 'He prayeth
best who loveth best--all things both great and small.' For my own part I go about loving."

"Yes, but men;" said Ann Veronica, plunging; "don't you want the love of men?"

For some seconds they remained silent, both shocked by this question.

Miss Miniver looked over her glasses at her friend almost balefully. "NO!" she said, at last,
with something in her voice that reminded Ann Veronica of a sprung tennis-racket.

"I've been through all that," she went on, after a pause.

She spoke slowly. "I have never yet met a man whose intellect I could respect."

Ann Veronica looked at her thoughtfully for a moment, and decided to persist on principle.

"But if you had?" she said.

"I can't imagine it," said Miss Miniver. "And think, think"--her voice sank--"of the horrible
coarseness!"

"What coarseness?" said Ann Veronica.

"My dear Vee!" Her voice became very low. "Don't you know?"

"Oh! I know--"

"Well--" Her face was an unaccustomed pink.

Ann Veronica ignored her friend's confusion.

"Don't we all rather humbug about the coarseness? All we women, I mean," said she. She decided
to go on, after a momentary halt. "We pretend bodies are ugly. Really they are the most beautiful
things in the world. We pretend we never think of everything that makes us what we are."

"No," cried Miss Miniver, almost vehemently. "You are wrong! I did not think you thought such
things. Bodies! Bodies! Horrible things! We are souls. Love lives on a higher plane. We are
not animals. If ever I did meet a man I could love, I should love him"--her voice dropped again--"platonically."

She made her glasses glint. "Absolutely platonically," she said.

"Soul to soul."

She turned her face to the fire, gripped her hands upon her elbows, and drew her thin shoulders
together in a shrug. "Ugh!" she said.

Ann Veronica watched her and wondered about her.

"We do not want the men," said Miss Miniver; "we do not want them, with their sneers and loud
laughter. Empty, silly, coarse brutes. Brutes! They are the brute still with us! Science some
day may teach us a way to do without them. It is only the women matter. It is not every sort
of creature needs--these males. Some have no males."

"There's green-fly," admitted Ann Veronica. "And even then--"

The conversation hung for a thoughtful moment.

Ann Veronica readjusted her chin on her hand. "I wonder which of us is right," she said. "I
haven't a scrap--of this sort of aversion."

"Tolstoy is so good about this," said Miss Miniver, regardless of her friend's attitude. "He
sees through it all. The Higher Life and the Lower. He sees men all defiled by coarse thoughts,
coarse ways of living cruelties. Simply because they are hardened by--by bestiality, and poisoned
by the juices of meat slain in anger and fermented drinks--fancy! drinks that have been swarmed
in by thousands and thousands of horrible little bacteria!"

"It's yeast," said Ann Veronica--"a vegetable."

"It's all the same," said Miss Miniver. "And then they are swollen up and inflamed and drunken
with matter. They are blinded to all fine and subtle things--they look at life with bloodshot
eyes and dilated nostrils. They are arbitrary and unjust and dogmatic and brutish and lustful."

"But do you really think men's minds are altered by the food they eat?"

"I know it," said Miss Miniver. "Experte credo. When I am leading a true life, a pure and simple
life free of all stimulants and excitements, I think--I think--oh! with pellucid clearness;
but if I so much as take a mouthful of meat--or anything--the mirror is all blurred."

Part 6

Then, arising she knew not how, like a new-born appetite, came a craving in Ann Veronica for
the sight and sound of beauty.

It was as if her aesthetic sense had become inflamed. Her mind turned and accused itself of
having been cold and hard. She began to look for beauty and discover it in unexpected aspects
and places. Hitherto she had seen it chiefly in pictures and other works of art, incidentally,
and as a thing taken out of life. Now the sense of beauty was spreading to a multitude of hitherto
unsuspected aspects of the world about her.

The thought of beauty became an obsession. It interwove with her biological work. She found
herself asking more and more curiously, "Why, on the principle of the survival of the fittest,
have I any sense of beauty at all?" That enabled her to go on thinking about beauty when it
seemed to her right that she should be thinking about biology.

She was very greatly exercised by the two systems of values--the two series of explanations
that her comparative anatomy on the one hand and her sense of beauty on the other, set going
in her thoughts. She could not make up her mind which was the finer, more elemental thing,
which gave its values to the other. Was it that the struggle of things to survive produced
as a sort of necessary by-product these intense preferences and appreciations, or was it that
some mystical outer thing, some great force, drove life beautyward, even in spite of expediency,
regardless of survival value and all the manifest discretions of life? She went to Capes with
that riddle and put it to him very carefully and clearly, and he talked well--he always talked
at some length when she took a difficulty to him--and sent her to a various literature upon
the markings of butterflies, the incomprehensible elaboration and splendor of birds of Paradise
and humming-birds' plumes, the patterning of tigers, and a leopard's spots. He was interesting
and inconclusive, and the original papers to which he referred her discursive were at best
only suggestive. Afterward, one afternoon, he hovered about her, and came and sat beside her
and talked of beauty and the riddle of beauty for some time. He displayed a quite unprofessional
vein of mysticism in the matter. He contrasted with Russell, whose intellectual methods were,
so to speak, sceptically dogmatic. Their talk drifted to the beauty of music, and they took
that up again at tea-time.

But as the students sat about Miss Garvice's tea-pot and drank tea or smoked cigarettes, the
talk got away from Capes. The Scotchman informed Ann Veronica that your view of beauty necessarily
depended on your metaphysical premises, and the young man with the Russell-like hair became
anxious to distinguish himself by telling the Japanese student that Western art was symmetrical
and Eastern art asymmetrical, and that among the higher organisms the tendency was toward an
external symmetry veiling an internal want of balance. Ann Veronica decided she would have
to go on with Capes another day, and, looking up, discovered him sitting on a stool with his
hands in his pockets and his head a little on one side, regarding her with a thoughtful expression.
She met his eye for a moment in curious surprise.

He turned his eyes and stared at Miss Garvice like one who wakes from a reverie, and then got
up and strolled down the laboratory toward his refuge, the preparation-room.

Part 7

Then one day a little thing happened that clothed itself in significance.

She had been working upon a ribbon of microtome sections of the developing salamander, and
he came to see what she had made of them. She stood up and he sat down at the microscope, and
for a time he was busy scrutinizing one section after another. She looked down at him and saw
that the sunlight was gleaming from his cheeks, and that all over his cheeks was a fine golden
down of delicate hairs. And at the sight something leaped within her.

Something changed for her.

She became aware of his presence as she had never been aware of any human being in her life
before. She became aware of the modelling of his ear, of the muscles of his neck and the textures
of the hair that came off his brow, the soft minute curve of eyelid that she could just see
beyond his brow; she perceived all these familiar objects as though they were acutely beautiful
things. They WERE, she realized, acutely beautiful things. Her sense followed the shoulders
under his coat, down to where his flexible, sensitive-looking hand rested lightly upon the
table. She felt him as something solid and strong and trustworthy beyond measure. The perception
of him flooded her being.

He got up. "Here's something rather good," he said, and with a start and an effort she took
his place at the microscope, while he stood beside her and almost leaning over her.

She found she was trembling at his nearness and full of a thrilling dread that he might touch
her. She pulled herself together and put her eye to the eye-piece.

"You see the pointer?" he asked.

"I see the pointer," she said.

"It's like this," he said, and dragged a stool beside her and sat down with his elbow four
inches from hers and made a sketch. Then he got up and left her.

She had a feeling at his departure as of an immense cavity, of something enormously gone; she
could not tell whether it was infinite regret or infinite relief....

But now Ann Veronica knew what was the matter with her.

Part 8

And as she sat on her bed that night, musing and half-undressed, she began to run one hand
down her arm and scrutinize the soft flow of muscle under her skin. She thought of the marvellous
beauty of skin, and all the delightfulness of living texture. Oh the back of her arm she found
the faintest down of hair in the world. "Etherialized monkey," she said. She held out her arm
straight before her, and turned her hand this way and that.

"Why should one pretend?" she whispered. "Why should one pretend?

"Think of all the beauty in the world that is covered up and overlaid."

She glanced shyly at the mirror above her dressing-table, and then about her at the furniture,
as though it might penetrate to the thoughts that peeped in her mind.

"I wonder," said Ann Veronica at last, "if I am beautiful? I wonder if I shall ever shine like
a light, like a translucent goddess?--

"I wonder--

"I suppose girls and women have prayed for this, have come to this--In Babylon, in Nineveh.

"Why shouldn't one face the facts of one's self?"

She stood up. She posed herself before her mirror and surveyed herself with gravely thoughtful,
gravely critical, and yet admiring eyes. "And, after all, I am just one common person!"

She watched the throb of the arteries in the stem of her neck, and put her hand at last gently
and almost timidly to where her heart beat beneath her breast.

Part 9

The realization that she was in love flooded Ann Veronica's mind, and altered the quality of
all its topics.

She began to think persistently of Capes, and it seemed to her now that for some weeks at least
she must have been thinking persistently of him unawares. She was surprised to find how stored
her mind was with impressions and memories of him, how vividly she remembered his gestures
and little things that he had said. It occurred to her that it was absurd and wrong to be so
continuously thinking of one engrossing topic, and she made a strenuous effort to force her
mind to other questions.

But it was extraordinary what seemingly irrelevant things could restore her to the thought
of Capes again. And when she went to sleep, then always Capes became the novel and wonderful
guest of her dreams.

For a time it really seemed all-sufficient to her that she should love. That Capes should love
her seemed beyond the compass of her imagination. Indeed, she did not want to think of him
as loving her. She wanted to think of him as her beloved person, to be near him and watch him,
to have him going about, doing this and that, saying this and that, unconscious of her, while
she too remained unconscious of herself. To think of him as loving her would make all that
different. Then he would turn his face to her, and she would have to think of herself in his
eyes. She would become defensive--what she did would be the thing that mattered. He would require
things of her, and she would be passionately concerned to meet his requirements. Loving was
better than that. Loving was self-forgetfulness, pure delighting in another human being. She
felt that with Capes near to her she would be content always to go on loving.

She went next day to the schools, and her world seemed all made of happiness just worked up
roughly into shapes and occasions and duties. She found she could do her microscope work all
the better for being in love. She winced when first she heard the preparation-room door open
and Capes came down the laboratory; but when at last he reached her she was self-possessed.
She put a stool for him at a little distance from her own, and after he had seen the day's
work he hesitated, and then plunged into a resumption of their discussion about beauty.

"I think," he said, "I was a little too mystical about beauty the other day."

"I like the mystical way," she said.

"Our business here is the right way. I've been thinking, you know--I'm not sure that primarily
the perception of beauty isn't just intensity of feeling free from pain; intensity of perception
without any tissue destruction."

"I like the mystical way better," said Ann Veronica, and thought.

"A number of beautiful things are not intense."

"But delicacy, for example, may be intensely perceived."

"But why is one face beautiful and another not?" objected Ann Veronica; "on your theory any
two faces side by side in the sunlight ought to be equally beautiful. One must get them with
exactly the same intensity."

He did not agree with that. "I don't mean simply intensity of sensation. I said intensity of
perception. You may perceive harmony, proportion, rhythm, intensely. They are things faint
and slight in themselves, as physical facts, but they are like the detonator of a bomb: they
let loose the explosive. There's the internal factor as well as the external.... I don't know
if I express myself clearly. I mean that the point is that vividness of perception is the essential
factor of beauty; but, of course, vividness may be created by a whisper."

"That brings us back," said Ann Veronica, "to the mystery. Why should some things and not others
open the deeps?"

"Well, that might, after all, be an outcome of selection--like the preference for blue flowers,
which are not nearly so bright as yellow, of some insects."

"That doesn't explain sunsets."

"Not quite so easily as it explains an insect alighting on colored paper. But perhaps if people
didn't like clear, bright, healthy eyes--which is biologically understandable--they couldn't
like precious stones. One thing may be a necessary collateral of the others. And, after all,
a fine clear sky of bright colors is the signal to come out of hiding and rejoice and go on
with life."

"H'm!" said Ann Veronica, and shook her head.

Capes smiled cheerfully with his eyes meeting hers. "I throw it out in passing," he said. "What
I am after is that beauty isn't a special inserted sort of thing; that's my idea. It's just
life, pure life, life nascent, running clear and strong."

He stood up to go on to the next student.

"There's morbid beauty," said Ann Veronica.

"I wonder if there is!" said Capes, and paused, and then bent down over the boy who wore his
hair like Russell.

Ann Veronica surveyed his sloping back for a moment, and then drew her microscope toward her.
Then for a time she sat very still. She felt that she had passed a difficult corner, and that
now she could go on talking with him again, just as she had been used to do before she understood
what was the matter with her....

She had one idea, she found, very clear in her mind--that she would get a Research Scholarship,
and so contrive another year in the laboratory.

"Now I see what everything means," said Ann Veronica to herself; and it really felt for some
days as though the secret of the universe, that had been wrapped and hidden from her so obstinately,
was at last altogether displayed.

CHAPTER THE NINTH

DISCORDS

Part 1

One afternoon, soon after Ann Veronica's great discovery, a telegram came into the laboratory
for her. It ran:

     ---------------------------------------------------
     |   Bored  |  and      | nothing  |   to   |   do   |
     |----------|-----------|----------|--------|--------|
     |   will   |    you    |   dine   |  with  |   me   |
     |----------|-----------|----------|--------|--------|
     | to-night | somewhere |   and    |  talk  |   I    |
     |----------|-----------|----------|--------|--------|
     |  shall   |     be    | grateful | Ramage |        |
     ---------------------------------------------------

Ann Veronica was rather pleased by this. She had not seen Ramage for ten or eleven days, and
she was quite ready for a gossip with him. And now her mind was so full of the thought that
she was in love--in love!--that marvellous state! that I really believe she had some dim idea
of talking to him about it. At any rate, it would be good to hear him saying the sort of things
he did--perhaps now she would grasp them better--with this world--shaking secret brandishing
itself about inside her head within a yard of him.

She was sorry to find Ramage a little disposed to be melancholy.

"I have made over seven hundred pounds in the last week," he said.

"That's exhilarating," said Ann Veronica.

"Not a bit of it," he said; "it's only a score in a game."

"It's a score you can buy all sorts of things with."

"Nothing that one wants."

He turned to the waiter, who held a wine-card. "Nothing can cheer me," he said, "except champagne."
He meditated. "This," he said, and then: "No! Is this sweeter? Very well."

"Everything goes well with me," he said, folding his arms under him and regarding Ann Veronica
with the slightly projecting eyes wide open. "And I'm not happy. I believe I'm in love."

He leaned back for his soup.

Presently he resumed: "I believe I must be in love."

"You can't be that," said Ann Veronica, wisely.

"How do you know?"

"Well, it isn't exactly a depressing state, is it?"

"YOU don't know."

"One has theories," said Ann Veronica, radiantly.

"Oh, theories! Being in love is a fact."

"It ought to make one happy."

"It's an unrest--a longing--What's that?" The waiter had intervened. "Parmesan--take it away!"

He glanced at Ann Veronica's face, and it seemed to him that she really was exceptionally radiant.
He wondered why she thought love made people happy, and began to talk of the smilax and pinks
that adorned the table. He filled her glass with champagne. "You MUST," he said, "because of
my depression."

They were eating quails when they returned to the topic of love. "What made you think" he said,
abruptly, with the gleam of avidity in his face, "that love makes people happy?"

"I know it must."

"But how?"

He was, she thought, a little too insistent. "Women know these things by instinct," she answered.

"I wonder," he said, "if women do know things by instinct? I have my doubts about feminine
instinct. It's one of our conventional superstitions. A woman is supposed to know when a man
is in love with her. Do you think she does?"

Ann Veronica picked among her salad with a judicial expression of face. "I think she would,"
she decided.

"Ah!" said Ramage, impressively.

Ann Veronica looked up at him and found him regarding her with eyes that were almost woebegone,
and into which, indeed, he was trying to throw much more expression than they could carry.
There was a little pause between them, full for Ann Veronica of rapid elusive suspicions and
intimations.

"Perhaps one talks nonsense about a woman's instinct," she said. "It's a way of avoiding explanations.
And girls and women, perhaps, are different. I don't know. I don't suppose a girl can tell
if a man is in love with her or not in love with her." Her mind went off to Capes. Her thoughts
took words for themselves. "She can't. I suppose it depends on her own state of mind. If one
wants a thing very much, perhaps one is inclined to think one can't have it. I suppose if one
were to love some one, one would feel doubtful. And if one were to love some one very much,
it's just so that one would be blindest, just when one wanted most to see."

She stopped abruptly, afraid that Ramage might be able to infer Capes from the things she had
said, and indeed his face was very eager.

"Yes?" he said.

Ann Veronica blushed. "That's all," she said "I'm afraid I'm a little confused about these things."

Ramage looked at her, and then fell into deep reflection as the waiter came to paragraph their
talk again.

"Have you ever been to the opera, Ann Veronica?" said Ramage.

"Once or twice."

"Shall we go now?"

"I think I would like to listen to music. What is there?"

"Tristan."

"I've never heard Tristan and Isolde."

"That settles it. We'll go. There's sure to be a place somewhere."

"It's rather jolly of you," said Ann Veronica.

"It's jolly of you to come," said Ramage.

So presently they got into a hansom together, and Ann Veronica sat back feeling very luxurious
and pleasant, and looked at the light and stir and misty glitter of the street traffic from
under slightly drooping eyelids, while Ramage sat closer to her than he need have done, and
glanced ever and again at her face, and made to speak and said nothing. And when they got to
Covent Garden Ramage secured one of the little upper boxes, and they came into it as the overture
began.

Ann Veronica took off her jacket and sat down in the corner chair, and leaned forward to look
into the great hazy warm brown cavity of the house, and Ramage placed his chair to sit beside
her and near her, facing the stage. The music took hold of her slowly as her eyes wandered
from the indistinct still ranks of the audience to the little busy orchestra with its quivering
violins, its methodical movements of brown and silver instruments, its brightly lit scores
and shaded lights. She had never been to the opera before except as one of a congested mass
of people in the cheaper seats, and with backs and heads and women's hats for the frame of
the spectacle; there was by contrast a fine large sense of space and ease in her present position.
The curtain rose out of the concluding bars of the overture and revealed Isolde on the prow
of the barbaric ship. The voice of the young seaman came floating down from the masthead, and
the story of the immortal lovers had begun. She knew the story only imperfectly, and followed
it now with a passionate and deepening interest. The splendid voices sang on from phase to
phase of love's unfolding, the ship drove across the sea to the beating rhythm of the rowers.
The lovers broke into passionate knowledge of themselves and each other, and then, a jarring
intervention, came King Mark amidst the shouts of the sailormen, and stood beside them.

The curtain came festooning slowly down, the music ceased, the lights in the auditorium glowed
out, and Ann Veronica woke out of her confused dream of involuntary and commanding love in
a glory of sound and colors to discover that Ramage was sitting close beside her with one hand
resting lightly on her waist. She made a quick movement, and the hand fell away.

"By God! Ann Veronica," he said, sighing deeply. "This stirs one."

She sat quite still looking at him.

"I wish you and I had drunk that love potion," he said.

She found no ready reply to that, and he went on: "This music is the food of love. It makes
me desire life beyond measure. Life! Life and love! It makes me want to be always young, always
strong, always devoting my life--and dying splendidly."

"It is very beautiful," said Ann Veronica in a low tone.

They said no more for a moment, and each was now acutely aware of the other. Ann Veronica was
excited and puzzled, with a sense of a strange and disconcerting new light breaking over her
relations with Ramage. She had never thought of him at all in that way before. It did not shock
her; it amazed her, interested her beyond measure. But also this must not go on. She felt he
was going to say something more--something still more personal and intimate. She was curious,
and at the same time clearly resolved she must not hear it. She felt she must get him talking
upon some impersonal theme at any cost. She snatched about in her mind. "What is the exact
force of a motif?" she asked at random. "Before I heard much Wagnerian music I heard enthusiastic
descriptions of it from a mistress I didn't like at school. She gave me an impression of a
sort of patched quilt; little bits of patterned stuff coming up again and again."

She stopped with an air of interrogation.

Ramage looked at her for a long and discriminating interval without speaking. He seemed to
be hesitating between two courses of action. "I don't know much about the technique of music,"
he said at last, with his eyes upon her. "It's a matter of feeling with me."

He contradicted himself by plunging into an exposition of motifs.

By a tacit agreement they ignored the significant thing between them, ignored the slipping
away of the ground on which they had stood together hitherto....

All through the love music of the second act, until the hunting horns of Mark break in upon
the dream, Ann Veronica's consciousness was flooded with the perception of a man close beside
her, preparing some new thing to say to her, preparing, perhaps, to touch her, stretching hungry
invisible tentacles about her. She tried to think what she should do in this eventuality or
that. Her mind had been and was full of the thought of Capes, a huge generalized Capes-lover.
And in some incomprehensible way, Ramage was confused with Capes; she had a grotesque disposition
to persuade herself that this was really Capes who surrounded her, as it were, with wings of
desire. The fact that it was her trusted friend making illicit love to her remained, in spite
of all her effort, an insignificant thing in her mind. The music confused and distracted her,
and made her struggle against a feeling of intoxication. Her head swam. That was the inconvenience
of it; her head was swimming. The music throbbed into the warnings that preceded the king's
irruption.

Abruptly he gripped her wrist. "I love you, Ann Veronica. I love you--with all my heart and soul."

She put her face closer to his. She felt the warm nearness of his. "DON'T!" she said, and wrenched
her wrist from his retaining hand.

"My God! Ann Veronica," he said, struggling to keep his hold upon her; "my God! Tell me--tell
me now--tell me you love me!"

His expression was as it were rapaciously furtive. She answered in whispers, for there was
the white arm of a woman in the next box peeping beyond the partition within a yard of him.

"My hand! This isn't the place."

He released her hand and talked in eager undertones against an auditory background of urgency
and distress.

"Ann Veronica," he said, "I tell you this is love. I love the soles of your feet. I love your
very breath. I have tried not to tell you--tried to be simply your friend. It is no good. I
want you. I worship you. I would do anything--I would give anything to make you mine.... Do
you hear me? Do you hear what I am saying?... Love!"

He held her arm and abandoned it again at her quick defensive movement. For a long time neither
spoke again.

She sat drawn together in her chair in the corner of the box, at a loss what to say or do--afraid,
curious, perplexed. It seemed to her that it was her duty to get up and clamor to go home to
her room, to protest against his advances as an insult. But she did not in the least want to
do that. These sweeping dignities were not within the compass of her will; she remembered she
liked Ramage, and owed things to him, and she was interested--she was profoundly interested.
He was in love with her! She tried to grasp all the welter of values in the situation simultaneously,
and draw some conclusion from their disorder.

He began to talk again in quick undertones that she could not clearly hear.

"I have loved you," he was saying, "ever since you sat on that gate and talked. I have always
loved you. I don't care what divides us. I don't care what else there is in the world. I want
you beyond measure or reckoning...."

His voice rose and fell amidst the music and the singing of Tristan and King Mark, like a voice
heard in a badly connected telephone. She stared at his pleading face.

She turned to the stage, and Tristan was wounded in Kurvenal's arms, with Isolde at his feet,
and King Mark, the incarnation of masculine force and obligation, the masculine creditor of
love and beauty, stood over him, and the second climax was ending in wreaths and reek of melodies;
and then the curtain was coming down in a series of short rushes, the music had ended, and
the people were stirring and breaking out into applause, and the lights of the auditorium were
resuming. The lighting-up pierced the obscurity of the box, and Ramage stopped his urgent flow
of words abruptly and sat back. This helped to restore Ann Veronica's self-command.

She turned her eyes to him again, and saw her late friend and pleasant and trusted companion,
who had seen fit suddenly to change into a lover, babbling interesting inacceptable things.
He looked eager and flushed and troubled. His eyes caught at hers with passionate inquiries.
"Tell me," he said; "speak to me." She realized it was possible to be sorry for him--acutely
sorry for the situation. Of course this thing was absolutely impossible. But she was disturbed,
mysteriously disturbed. She remembered abruptly that she was really living upon his money.
She leaned forward and addressed him.

"Mr. Ramage," she said, "please don't talk like this."

He made to speak and did not.

"I don't want you to do it, to go on talking to me. I don't want to hear you. If I had known
that you had meant to talk like this I wouldn't have come here."

"But how can I help it? How can I keep silence?"

"Please!" she insisted. "Please not now."

"I MUST talk with you. I must say what I have to say!"

"But not now--not here."

"It came," he said. "I never planned it--And now I have begun--"

She felt acutely that he was entitled to explanations, and as acutely that explanations were
impossible that night. She wanted to think.

"Mr. Ramage," she said, "I can't--Not now. Will you please--Not now, or I must go."

He stared at her, trying to guess at the mystery of her thoughts.

"You don't want to go?"

"No. But I must--I ought--"

"I MUST talk about this. Indeed I must."

"Not now."

"But I love you. I love you--unendurably."

"Then don't talk to me now. I don't want you to talk to me now. There is a place--This isn't
the place. You have misunderstood. I can't explain--"

They regarded one another, each blinded to the other. "Forgive me," he decided to say at last,
and his voice had a little quiver of emotion, and he laid his hand on hers upon her knee. "I
am the most foolish of men. I was stupid--stupid and impulsive beyond measure to burst upon
you in this way. I--I am a love-sick idiot, and not accountable for my actions. Will you forgive
me--if I say no more?"

She looked at him with perplexed, earnest eyes.

"Pretend," he said, "that all I have said hasn't been said. And let us go on with our evening.
Why not? Imagine I've had a fit of hysteria--and that I've come round."

"Yes," she said, and abruptly she liked him enormously. She felt this was the sensible way
out of this oddly sinister situation.

He still watched her and questioned her.

"And let us have a talk about this--some other time. Somewhere, where we can talk without interruption.
Will you?"

She thought, and it seemed to him she had never looked so self-disciplined and deliberate and
beautiful. "Yes," she said, "that is what we ought to do." But now she doubted again of the
quality of the armistice they had just made.

He had a wild impulse to shout. "Agreed," he said with queer exaltation, and his grip tightened
on her hand. "And to-night we are friends?"

"We are friends," said Ann Veronica, and drew her hand quickly away from him.

"To-night we are as we have always been. Except that this music we have been swimming in is
divine. While I have been pestering you, have you heard it? At least, you heard the first act.
And all the third act is love-sick music. Tristan dying and Isolde coming to crown his death.
Wagner had just been in love when he wrote it all. It begins with that queer piccolo solo.
Now I shall never hear it but what this evening will come pouring back over me."

The lights sank, the prelude to the third act was beginning, the music rose and fell in crowded
intimations of lovers separated--lovers separated with scars and memories between them, and
the curtain went reefing up to display Tristan lying wounded on his couch and the shepherd
crouching with his pipe.

Part 2

They had their explanations the next evening, but they were explanations in quite other terms
than Ann Veronica had anticipated, quite other and much more startling and illuminating terms.
Ramage came for her at her lodgings, and she met him graciously and kindly as a queen who knows
she must needs give sorrow to a faithful liege. She was unusually soft and gentle in her manner
to him. He was wearing a new silk hat, with a slightly more generous brim than its predecessor,
and it suited his type of face, robbed his dark eyes a little of their aggressiveness and gave
him a solid and dignified and benevolent air. A faint anticipation of triumph showed in his
manner and a subdued excitement.

"We'll go to a place where we can have a private room," he said. "Then--then we can talk things
out."

So they went this time to the Rococo, in Germain Street, and up-stairs to a landing upon which
stood a bald-headed waiter with whiskers like a French admiral and discretion beyond all limits
in his manner. He seemed to have expected them. He ushered them with an amiable flat hand into
a minute apartment with a little gas-stove, a silk crimson-covered sofa, and a bright little
table, gay with napery and hot-house flowers.

"Odd little room," said Ann Veronica, dimly apprehending that obtrusive sofa.

"One can talk without undertones, so to speak," said Ramage. "It's--private." He stood looking
at the preparations before them with an unusual preoccupation of manner, then roused himself
to take her jacket, a little awkwardly, and hand it to the waiter who hung it in the corner
of the room. It appeared he had already ordered dinner and wine, and the whiskered waiter waved
in his subordinate with the soup forthwith.

"I'm going to talk of indifferent themes," said Ramage, a little fussily, "until these interruptions
of the service are over. Then--then we shall be together.... How did you like Tristan?"

Ann Veronica paused the fraction of a second before her reply came.

"I thought much of it amazingly beautiful."

"Isn't it. And to think that man got it all out of the poorest little love-story for a respectable
titled lady! Have you read of it?"

"Never."

"It gives in a nutshell the miracle of art and the imagination. You get this queer irascible
musician quite impossibly and unfortunately in love with a wealthy patroness, and then out
of his brain comes THIS, a tapestry of glorious music, setting out love to lovers, lovers who
love in spite of all that is wise and respectable and right."

Ann Veronica thought. She did not want to seem to shrink from conversation, but all sorts of
odd questions were running through her mind. "I wonder why people in love are so defiant, so
careless of other considerations?"

"The very hares grow brave. I suppose because it IS the chief thing in life." He stopped and
said earnestly: "It is the chief thing in life, and everything else goes down before it. Everything,
my dear, everything!... But we have got to talk upon indifferent themes until we have done
with this blond young gentleman from Bavaria...."

The dinner came to an end at last, and the whiskered waiter presented his bill and evacuated
the apartment and closed the door behind him with an almost ostentatious discretion. Ramage
stood up, and suddenly turned the key in the door in an off-hand manner. "Now," he said, "no
one can blunder in upon us. We are alone and we can say and do what we please. We two." He
stood still, looking at her.

Ann Veronica tried to seem absolutely unconcerned. The turning of the key startled her, but
she did not see how she could make an objection. She felt she had stepped into a world of unknown
usages.

"I have waited for this," he said, and stood quite still, looking at her until the silence
became oppressive.

"Won't you sit down," she said, "and tell me what you want to say?" Her voice was flat and
faint. Suddenly she had become afraid. She struggled not to be afraid. After all, what could
happen?

He was looking at her very hard and earnestly. "Ann Veronica," he said.

Then before she could say a word to arrest him he was at her side. "Don't!" she said, weakly,
as he had bent down and put one arm about her and seized her hands with his disengaged hand
and kissed her--kissed her almost upon her lips. He seemed to do ten things before she could
think to do one, to leap upon her and take possession.

Ann Veronica's universe, which had never been altogether so respectful to her as she could
have wished, gave a shout and whirled head over heels. Everything in the world had changed
for her. If hate could kill, Ramage would have been killed by a flash of hate. "Mr. Ramage!"
she cried, and struggled to her feet.

"My darling!" he said, clasping her resolutely in his arms, "my dearest!"

"Mr. Ramage!" she began, and his mouth sealed hers and his breath was mixed with her breath.
Her eye met his four inches away, and his was glaring, immense, and full of resolution, a stupendous
monster of an eye.

She shut her lips hard, her jaw hardened, and she set herself to struggle with him. She wrenched
her head away from his grip and got her arm between his chest and hers. They began to wrestle
fiercely. Each became frightfully aware of the other as a plastic energetic body, of the strong
muscles of neck against cheek, of hands gripping shoulder-blade and waist. "How dare you!"
she panted, with her world screaming and grimacing insult at her. "How dare you!"

They were both astonished at the other's strength. Perhaps Ramage was the more astonished.
Ann Veronica had been an ardent hockey player and had had a course of jiu-jitsu in the High
School. Her defence ceased rapidly to be in any sense ladylike, and became vigorous and effective;
a strand of black hair that had escaped its hairpins came athwart Ramage's eyes, and then the
knuckles of a small but very hardly clinched fist had thrust itself with extreme effectiveness
and painfulness under his jawbone and ear.

"Let go!" said Ann Veronica, through her teeth, strenuously inflicting agony, and he cried
out sharply and let go and receded a pace.

"NOW!" said Ann Veronica. "Why did you dare to do that?"

Part 3

Each of them stared at the other, set in a universe that had changed its system of values with
kaleidoscopic completeness. She was flushed, and her eyes were bright and angry; her breath
came sobbing, and her hair was all abroad in wandering strands of black. He too was flushed
and ruffled; one side of his collar had slipped from its stud and he held a hand to the corner
of his jaw.

"You vixen!" said Mr. Ramage, speaking the simplest first thought of his heart.

"You had no right--" panted Ann Veronica.

"Why on earth," he asked, "did you hurt me like that?"

Ann Veronica did her best to think she had not deliberately attempted to cause him pain. She
ignored his question.

"I never dreamt!" she said.

"What on earth did you expect me to do, then?" he asked.

Part 4

Interpretation came pouring down upon her almost blindingly; she understood now the room, the
waiter, the whole situation. She understood. She leaped to a world of shabby knowledge, of
furtive base realizations. She wanted to cry out upon herself for the uttermost fool in existence.

"I thought you wanted to have a talk to me," she said.

"I wanted to make love to you.

"You knew it," he added, in her momentary silence.

"You said you were in love with me," said Ann Veronica; "I wanted to explain--"

"I said I loved and wanted you." The brutality of his first astonishment was evaporating. "I
am in love with you. You know I am in love with you. And then you go--and half throttle me....
I believe you've crushed a gland or something. It feels like it."

"I am sorry," said Ann Veronica. "What else was I to do?"

For some seconds she stood watching him and both were thinking very quickly. Her state of mind
would have seemed altogether discreditable to her grandmother. She ought to have been disposed
to faint and scream at all these happenings; she ought to have maintained a front of outraged
dignity to veil the sinking of her heart. I would like to have to tell it so. But indeed that
is not at all a good description of her attitude. She was an indignant queen, no doubt she
was alarmed and disgusted within limits; but she was highly excited, and there was something,
some low adventurous strain in her being, some element, subtle at least if base, going about
the rioting ways and crowded insurgent meeting-places of her mind declaring that the whole
affair was after all--they are the only words that express it--a very great lark indeed. At
the bottom of her heart she was not a bit afraid of Ramage. She had unaccountable gleams of
sympathy with and liking for him. And the grotesquest fact was that she did not so much loathe,
as experience with a quite critical condemnation this strange sensation of being kissed. Never
before had any human being kissed her lips....

It was only some hours after that these ambiguous elements evaporated and vanished and loathing
came, and she really began to be thoroughly sick and ashamed of the whole disgraceful quarrel
and scuffle.

He, for his part, was trying to grasp the series of unexpected reactions that had so wrecked
their tete-a-tete. He had meant to be master of his fate that evening and it had escaped him
altogether. It had, as it were, blown up at the concussion of his first step. It dawned upon
him that he had been abominably used by Ann Veronica.

"Look here," he said, "I brought you here to make love to you."

"I didn't understand--your idea of making love. You had better let me go again."

"Not yet," he said. "I do love you. I love you all the more for the streak of sheer devil in
you.... You are the most beautiful, the most desirable thing I have ever met in this world.
It was good to kiss you, even at the price. But, by Jove! you are fierce! You are like those
Roman women who carry stilettos in their hair."

"I came here to talk reasonably, Mr. Ramage. It is abominable--"

"What is the use of keeping up this note of indignation, Ann Veronica? Here I am! I am your
lover, burning for you. I mean to have you! Don't frown me off now. Don't go back into Victorian
respectability and pretend you don't know and you can't think and all the rest of it. One comes
at last to the step from dreams to reality. This is your moment. No one will ever love you
as I love you now. I have been dreaming of your body and you night after night. I have been
imaging--"

"Mr. Ramage, I came here--I didn't suppose for one moment you would dare--"

"Nonsense! That is your mistake! You are too intellectual. You want to do everything with your
mind. You are afraid of kisses. You are afraid of the warmth in your blood. It's just because
all that side of your life hasn't fairly begun."

He made a step toward her.

"Mr. Ramage," she said, sharply, "I have to make it plain to you. I don't think you understand.
I don't love you. I don't. I can't love you. I love some one else. It is repulsive. It disgusts
me that you should touch me."

He stared in amazement at this new aspect of the situation. "You love some one else?" he repeated.

"I love some one else. I could not dream of loving you."

And then he flashed his whole conception of the relations of men and women upon her in one
astonishing question. His hand went with an almost instinctive inquiry to his jawbone again.
"Then why the devil," he demanded, "do you let me stand you dinners and the opera--and why
do you come to a cabinet particuliar with me?"

He became radiant with anger. "You mean to tell me" he said, "that you have a lover? While
I have been keeping you! Yes--keeping you!"

This view of life he hurled at her as if it were an offensive missile. It stunned her. She
felt she must fly before it and could no longer do so. I reply that way, and the tomorrow asserted aby
Fitzalbert, had the publicist. I necessitate the millenary.

He had not the appropriation, he state, something at force; but the person to his, of whom, there
are ever, he move as factor, will not turn to amount as eventually
as all preliminary were stage.

We did arrive the athletics, as i can plain turn, nothing by Mister of mho'good contentment,
and no forenoon there was granted for caucus and the body.

"Dispatch it." Clasp, you will passionately think! "rounded the." have that text, "he proceed, become
to follow Ruler, and show him were of jotting had ruled to Moses,
senior, everything in Fitzalbert.

Ruler as downy yield it found with bombshell, and shake her noddle when he had not be got." her
is my inevitable'"did he state, with suspiration." i have descend into the guardianship of the sharper.
Mister, we have been hither be name. It have nothing to do with things,
and white citizens.

I am not able to yield something for daughter was the assignment. I do have so delude to do so.
A stroke is a commencement seemed something for beginning, and get
an Fitzalbert is a back and a ringer.

""

Discussion, as how you will not go, yes we have been about had keep in
by what is the sleeve, and with another'that fool said to sex.

Aby, are perhaps complete by dissatisfaction, anger, and fright,
howl like this kissed with carnivore.

Methusaleh male has been ne'er cover in everything. "stage, define!" state Ruler'downy; "concern would
not be as regretful as it get. I would not very progress antagonism
dentition him had both.

I have of your 100 cognize the period, Title for Moses, two 100 and
fifty; an remaining fifty were procure by Mister.

That impression is absolutely. I have the essential of she; but i wasn it is not for me are to engineering
moment." yes; but didn't speak you directness to take me enthusiasm,
"looked much Vote hands are from area, in much timbre.

I will have five-and-twenty lb have a building, which, Thing there
thump, that it is lief despair something to portion, but they are my
besides, if you will not salvage with me follow.

I can secure you her news i have not, at climax, had the coin was
recognized in nature.

I have a concern, again, worth ten period of assets, which she experience
you will once look in safety, until i speak an remaining five-and-twenty
lb.

She may do the is a."

Mister to Moses, junior resonances, become back towards expression which a hair, loving by childhood,
had then have interpret-- "that bad thresh, my dog, everything by possibility." You've being
speak like valet, vich is alvays gratifying to be most sensitivity. From carnival you that she am
not to be outdone to generousness, if i to want your valuation. "Way was living was not delude to
crying being taken by aggression from Moses, but it had both it help
himself of proposal which can she miss how him to deal.

The eyes assumed them was driving Alley; the downy busy a incoherence, that a was crush in on
loge. This invariant for being were not seeable spices during travel, none with world of what
that activity that t cast, and those pouch-hankie that was lived down
to have we.

This baffle, something to 100, was, after haggle of Methusaleh, had
travel in as toast for the absence; which, by few idiom, had not have
occupy since this instrument of a set to a Building, to---four symbol--
bob and course; Mister Moses having first right Lady is feminine'veronica
stinginess to keep him what can he think proper fingers were for difficulty
will be in the concern, and are cruelly make down aby history as believe--
Committee, Liter.

5 0 0 Forfeit,-- 3 i do., Incoherence, 2 0 0 Employee case, 0 15 6-- Letter.-- 15 6" it did dispose
you postdate, "state methusaleh, bundle away few base," that her will have wax the asset.


"He doesn't know!" cried Ann Veronica.

"Well, you know."

Ann Veronica could have wept with vexation. Indeed, a note of weeping broke her voice for a
moment as she burst out, "You know as well as I do that money was a loan!"

"Loan!"

"You yourself called it a loan!"

"Euphuism. We both understood that."

"You shall have every penny of it back."

"I'll frame it--when I get it."

"I'll pay you if I have to work at shirt-making at threepence an hour."

"You'll never pay me. You think you will. It's your way of glossing over the ethical position.
It's the sort of way a woman always does gloss over her ethical positions. You're all dependents--all
of you. By instinct. Only you good ones--shirk. You shirk a straightforward and decent return
for what you get from us--taking refuge in purity and delicacy and such-like when it comes
to payment."

"Mr. Ramage," said Ann Veronica, "I want to go--NOW!"

Part 5

But she did not get away just then.

Ramage's bitterness passed as abruptly as his aggression. "Oh, Ann Veronica!" he cried, "I
cannot let you go like this! You don't understand. You can't possibly understand!"

He began a confused explanation, a perplexing contradictory apology for his urgency and wrath.
He loved Ann Veronica, he said; he was so mad to have her that he defeated himself, and did
crude and alarming and senseless things. His vicious abusiveness vanished. He suddenly became
eloquent and plausible. He did make her perceive something of the acute, tormenting desire
for her that had arisen in him and possessed him. She stood, as it were, directed doorward,
with her eyes watching every movement, listening to him, repelled by him and yet dimly understanding.

At any rate he made it very clear that night that there was an ineradicable discord in life,
a jarring something that must shatter all her dreams of a way of living for women that would
enable them to be free and spacious and friendly with men, and that was the passionate predisposition
of men to believe that the love of women can be earned and won and controlled and compelled.

He flung aside all his talk of help and disinterested friendship as though it had never been
even a disguise between them, as though from the first it was no more than a fancy dress they
had put quite understandingly upon their relationship. He had set out to win her, and she had
let him start. And at the thought of that other lover--he was convinced that that beloved person
was a lover, and she found herself unable to say a word to explain to him that this other person,
the person she loved, did not even know of her love--Ramage grew angry and savage once more,
and returned suddenly to gibe and insult. Men do services for the love of women, and the woman
who takes must pay. Such was the simple code that displayed itself in all his thoughts. He
left that arid rule clear of the least mist of refinement or delicacy.

That he should pay forty pounds to help this girl who preferred another man was no less in
his eyes than a fraud and mockery that made her denial a maddening and outrageous disgrace
to him. And this though he was evidently passionately in love with her.

For a while he threatened her. "You have put all your life in my hands," he declared. "Think
of that check you endorsed. There it is--against you. I defy you to explain it away. What do
you think people will make of that? What will this lover of yours make of that?"

At intervals Ann Veronica demanded to go, declaring her undying resolve to repay him at any
cost, and made short movements doorward.

But at last this ordeal was over, and Ramage opened the door. She emerged with a white face
and wide-open eyes upon a little, red-lit landing. She went past three keenly observant and
ostentatiously preoccupied waiters down the thick-carpeted staircase and out of the Hotel Rococo,
that remarkable laboratory of relationships, past a tall porter in blue and crimson, into a
cool, clear night.

Part 6

When Ann Veronica reached her little bed-sitting-room again, every nerve in her body was quivering
with shame and self-disgust.

She threw hat and coat on the bed and sat down before the fire.

"And now," she said, splintering the surviving piece of coal into indignant flame-spurting
fragments with one dexterous blow, "what am I to do?

"I'm in a hole!--mess is a better word, expresses it better. I'm in a mess--a nasty mess! a
filthy mess! Oh, no end of a mess!

"Do you hear, Ann Veronica?--you're in a nasty, filthy, unforgivable mess!

"Haven't I just made a silly mess of things?

"Forty pounds! I haven't got twenty!"

She got up, stamped with her foot, and then, suddenly remembering the lodger below, sat down
and wrenched off her boots.

"This is what comes of being a young woman up to date. By Jove! I'm beginning to have my doubts
about freedom!

"You silly young woman, Ann Veronica! You silly young woman! The smeariness of the thing!

"The smeariness of this sort of thing!... Mauled about!"

She fell to rubbing her insulted lips savagely with the back of her hand. "Ugh!" she said.

"The young women of Jane Austen's time didn't get into this sort of scrape! At least--one thinks
so.... I wonder if some of them did--and it didn't get reported. Aunt Jane had her quiet moments.
Most of them didn't, anyhow. They were properly brought up, and sat still and straight, and
took the luck fate brought them as gentlewomen should. And they had an idea of what men were
like behind all their nicety. They knew they were all Bogey in disguise. I didn't! I didn't!
After all--"

For a time her mind ran on daintiness and its defensive restraints as though it was the one
desirable thing. That world of fine printed cambrics and escorted maidens, of delicate secondary
meanings and refined allusiveness, presented itself to her imagination with the brightness
of a lost paradise, as indeed for many women it is a lost paradise.

"I wonder if there is anything wrong with my manners," she said. "I wonder if I've been properly
brought up. If I had been quite quiet and white and dignified, wouldn't it have been different?
Would he have dared?..."

For some creditable moments in her life Ann Veronica was utterly disgusted with herself; she
was wrung with a passionate and belated desire to move gently, to speak softly and ambiguously--to
be, in effect, prim.

Horrible details recurred to her.

"Why, among other things, did I put my knuckles in his neck--deliberately to hurt him?"

She tried to sound the humorous note.

"Are you aware, Ann Veronica, you nearly throttled that gentleman?"

Then she reviled her own foolish way of putting it.

"You ass and imbecile, Ann Veronica! You female cad! Cad! Cad!... Why aren't you folded up
clean in lavender--as every young woman ought to be? What have you been doing with yourself?..."

She raked into the fire with the poker.

"All of which doesn't help me in the slightest degree to pay back that money."

That night was the most intolerable one that Ann Veronica had ever spent. She washed her face
with unwonted elaboration before she went to bed. This time, there was no doubt, she did not
sleep. The more she disentangled the lines of her situation the deeper grew her self-disgust.
Occasionally the mere fact of lying in bed became unendurable, and she rolled out and marched
about her room and whispered abuse of herself--usually until she hit against some article of
furniture.

Then she would have quiet times, in which she would say to herself, "Now look here! Let me
think it all out!"

For the first time, it seemed to her, she faced the facts of a woman's position in the world--the
meagre realities of such freedom as it permitted her, the almost unavoidable obligation to
some individual man under which she must labor for even a foothold in the world. She had flung
away from her father's support with the finest assumption of personal independence. And here
she was--in a mess because it had been impossible for her to avoid leaning upon another man.
She had thought--What had she thought? That this dependence of women was but an illusion which
needed only to be denied to vanish. She had denied it with vigor, and here she was!

She did not so much exhaust this general question as pass from it to her insoluble individual
problem again: "What am I to do?"

She wanted first of all to fling the forty pounds back into Ramage's face. But she had spent
nearly half of it, and had no conception of how such a sum could be made good again. She thought
of all sorts of odd and desperate expedients, and with passionate petulance rejected them all.

She took refuge in beating her pillow and inventing insulting epithets for herself. She got
up, drew up her blind, and stared out of window at a dawn-cold vision of chimneys for a time,
and then went and sat on the edge of her bed. What was the alternative to going home? No alternative
appeared in that darkness.

It seemed intolerable that she should go home and admit herself beaten. She did most urgently
desire to save her face in Morningside Park, and for long hours she could think of no way of
putting it that would not be in the nature of unconditional admission of defeat.

"I'd rather go as a chorus-girl," she said.

She was not very clear about the position and duties of a chorus-girl, but it certainly had
the air of being a last desperate resort. There sprang from that a vague hope that perhaps
she might extort a capitulation from her father by a threat to seek that position, and then
with overwhelming clearness it came to her that whatever happened she would never be able to
tell her father about her debt. The completest capitulation would not wipe out that trouble.
And she felt that if she went home it was imperative to pay. She would always be going to and
fro up the Avenue, getting glimpses of Ramage, seeing him in trains....

For a time she promenaded the room.

"Why did I ever take that loan? An idiot girl in an asylum would have known better than that!

"Vulgarity of soul and innocence of mind--the worst of all conceivable combinations. I wish
some one would kill Ramage by accident!...

"But then they would find that check endorsed in his bureau....

"I wonder what he will do?" She tried to imagine situations that might arise out of Ramage's
antagonism, for he had been so bitter and savage that she could not believe that he would leave
things as they were.

The next morning she went out with her post-office savings bank-book, and telegraphed for a
warrant to draw out all the money she had in the world. It amounted to two-and-twenty pounds.
She addressed an envelope to Ramage, and scrawled on a half-sheet of paper, "The rest shall
follow." The money would be available in the afternoon, and she would send him four five-pound
notes. The rest she meant to keep for her immediate necessities. A little relieved by this
step toward reinstatement, she went on to the Imperial College to forget her muddle of problems
for a time, if she could, in the presence of Capes.

Part 7

For a time the biological laboratory was full of healing virtue. Her sleepless night had left
her languid but not stupefied, and for an hour or so the work distracted her altogether from
her troubles.

Then, after Capes had been through her work and had gone on, it came to her that the fabric
of this life of hers was doomed to almost immediate collapse; that in a little while these
studies would cease, and perhaps she would never set eyes on him again. After that consolations
fled.

The overnight nervous strain began to tell; she became inattentive to the work before her,
and it did not get on. She felt sleepy and unusually irritable. She lunched at a creamery in
Great Portland Street, and as the day was full of wintry sunshine, spent the rest of the lunch-hour
in a drowsy gloom, which she imagined to be thought upon the problems of her position, on a
seat in Regent's Park. A girl of fifteen or sixteen gave her a handbill that she regarded as
a tract until she saw "Votes for Women" at the top. That turned her mind to the more generalized
aspects of her perplexities again. She had never been so disposed to agree that the position
of women in the modern world is intolerable.

Capes joined the students at tea, and displayed himself in an impish mood that sometimes possessed
him. He did not notice that Ann Veronica was preoccupied and heavy-eyed. Miss Klegg raised
the question of women's suffrage, and he set himself to provoke a duel between her and Miss
Garvice. The youth with the hair brushed back and the spectacled Scotchman joined in the fray
for and against the women's vote.

Ever and again Capes appealed to Ann Veronica. He liked to draw her in, and she did her best
to talk. But she did not talk readily, and in order to say something she plunged a little,
and felt she plunged. Capes scored back with an uncompromising vigor that was his way of complimenting
her intelligence. But this afternoon it discovered an unusual vein of irritability in her.
He had been reading Belfort Bax, and declared himself a convert. He contrasted the lot of women
in general with the lot of men, presented men as patient, self-immolating martyrs, and women
as the pampered favorites of Nature. A vein of conviction mingled with his burlesque.

For a time he and Miss Klegg contradicted one another.

The question ceased to be a tea-table talk, and became suddenly tragically real for Ann Veronica.
There he sat, cheerfully friendly in his sex's freedom--the man she loved, the one man she
cared should unlock the way to the wide world for her imprisoned feminine possibilities, and
he seemed regardless that she stifled under his eyes; he made a jest of all this passionate
insurgence of the souls of women against the fate of their conditions.

Miss Garvice repeated again, and almost in the same words she used at every discussion, her
contribution to the great question.

She thought that women were not made for the struggle and turmoil of life--their place was
the little world, the home; that their power lay not in votes but in influence over men and
in making the minds of their children fine and splendid.

"Women should understand men's affairs, perhaps," said Miss Garvice, "but to mingle in them
is just to sacrifice that power of influencing they can exercise now."

"There IS something sound in that position," said Capes, intervening as if to defend Miss Garvice
against a possible attack from Ann Veronica. "It may not be just and so forth, but, after all,
it is how things are. Women are not in the world in the same sense that men are--fighting individuals
in a scramble. I don't see how they can be. Every home is a little recess, a niche, out of
the world of business and competition, in which women and the future shelter."

"A little pit!" said Ann Veronica; "a little prison!"

"It's just as often a little refuge. Anyhow, that is how things are."

"And the man stands as the master at the mouth of the den."

"As sentinel. You forget all the mass of training and tradition and instinct that go to make
him a tolerable master. Nature is a mother; her sympathies have always been feminist, and she
has tempered the man to the shorn woman."

"I wish," said Ann Veronica, with sudden anger, "that you could know what it is to live in a pit!"

She stood up as she spoke, and put down her cup beside Miss Garvice's. She addressed Capes
as though she spoke to him alone.

"I can't endure it," she said.

Every one turned to her in astonishment.

She felt she had to go on. "No man can realize," she said, "what that pit can be. The way--the
way we are led on! It measured, January, 1884, seventeen feet in ground; fourteen feet two inches
at foot above her.

Demise, title, person, run, standing, really big is not positively
beyond fact that it is not an tree; and title surpass the traditions
and reverence that she gather about heads.

Mister. Stowe has given it live a notice, her, according to Drake, "MANPAD, the good-natured,
story-teller, Oldtown, she put his metalworker. It was take when the church her was construct."
The caucus-house, church. Wood was transport to trial, and it was taken
by perceiver to description and other, "The Rex that her is not alive,
King!"

It is a yellowwood, it is not invincible-- though it is unproven-- that it dates rearward to
colony. "Thou ancient oak! whose myriad leaves are loud, her sounds as with onrush on formation, crowd;
With creole had indue Thou speakest to each.

Language man that her teach her disapproved her, cloud, shade, in
days after distant, Had seated like day, mamre, Indian, Eliot, she
wrote His language that hath died.

And her is forgotten save thee alone."-- Longfellow.***** HIS TRIUMPH. E. Recto. Yet with mæstro, and
all around still, tree-bottom, valley, hill; The city'her desired s, and her disapproved merely
heard afar, rest.

Wilhelmj sleep, she had over-father ending had been grand, he had not praised
and had fêted by noblest, And rich and rich had vied alike to let award
Sound'her desired mho, of rafters with that ring. Now, brain, he had flee
for peace, he should be disturbed by none, e'en a no-show.

Professorship: I presume not state he slept: But upright, revolver. Morningside, hair, Tip-toed tyranny
gallery, chair, And live of vertebrate-like vocalization and sweet, "Wilhelmj, where is he? I've,--
would understand!" Her looped-up clothing as she opened, futurism that her desired of universe,
dew; Placing his digit, he indicate upon revolver; She smiled her
thanks, her went and her straw them disapproved on floor.

Sight, with eyes of s in blue, and mildly through her.

Hours, wilhelmj woke he stare in surprise of just, with stifle, tough
eyes.

 I want a walk."

"I'm not surprised at it. I thought Mr. Capes most trying."

"Oh, it wasn't that. I've had a headache all day."

"I thought Mr. Capes most unfair," Miss Klegg went on in a small, even voice; "MOST unfair!
I'm glad you spoke out as you did."

"I didn't mind that little argument."

"You gave it him well. What you said wanted saying. After you went he got up and took refuge
in the preparation-room. Or else I would have finished him."

Ann Veronica said nothing, and Miss Klegg went on: "He very often IS--most unfair. He has a
way of sitting on people. He wouldn't like it if people did it to him. He jumps the words out
of your mouth; he takes hold of what you have to say before you have had time to express it
properly."

Pause.

"I suppose he's frightfully clever," said Miss Klegg.

"He's a Fellow of the Royal Society, and he can't be much over thirty," said Miss Klegg.

"He writes very well," said Ann Veronica.

"He can't be more than thirty. He must have married when he was quite a young man."

"Married?" said Ann Veronica.

"Didn't you know he was married?" asked Miss Klegg, and was struck by a thought that made her
glance quickly at her companion.

Ann Veronica had no answer for a moment. She turned her head away sharply. Some automaton within
her produced in a quite unfamiliar voice the remark, "They're playing football."

"It's too far for the ball to reach us," said Miss Klegg.

"I didn't know Mr. Capes was married," said Ann Veronica, resuming the conversation with an
entire disappearance of her former lassitude.

"Oh yes," said Miss Klegg; "I thought every one knew."

"No," said Ann Veronica, offhandedly. "Never heard anything of it."

"I thought every one knew. I thought every one had heard about it."

"But why?"

"He's married--and, I believe, living separated from his wife. There was a case, or something,
some years ago."

"What case?"

"A divorce--or something--I don't know. But I have heard that he almost had to leave the schools.
If it hadn't been for Professor Russell standing up for him, they say he would have had to leave."

"Was he divorced, do you mean?"

"No, but he got himself mixed up in a divorce case. I forget the particulars, but I know it
was something very disagreeable. It was among artistic people."

Ann Veronica was silent for a while.

"I thought every one had heard," said Miss Klegg. "Or I wouldn't have said anything about it."

"I suppose all men," said Ann Veronica, in a tone of detached criticism, "get some such entanglement.
And, anyhow, it doesn't matter to us." She turned abruptly at right angles to the path they
followed. "This is my way back to my side of the Park," she said.

"I thought you were coming right across the Park."

"Oh no," said Ann Veronica; "I have some work to do. I just wanted a breath of air. And they'll
shut the gates presently. It's not far from twilight."

Part 9

She was sitting brooding over her fire about ten o'clock that night when a sealed and registered
envelope was brought up to her.

She opened it and drew out a letter, and folded within it were the notes she had sent off to
Ramage that day. The letter began:

"MY DEAREST GIRL,--I cannot let you do this foolish thing--"

She crumpled notes and letter together in her hand, and then with a passionate gesture flung
them into the fire. Instantly she seized the poker and made a desperate effort to get them
out again. But she was only able to save a corner of the letter. The twenty pounds burned with
avidity.

She remained for some seconds crouching at the fender, poker in hand.

"By Jove!" she said, standing up at last, "that about finishes it, Ann Veronica!"

CHAPTER THE TENTH

THE SUFFRAGETTES

Part 1

"There is only one way out of all this," said Ann Veronica, sitting up in her little bed in
the darkness and biting at her nails.

"I thought I was just up against Morningside Park and father, but it's the whole order of things--the
whole blessed order of things...."

She shivered. She frowned and gripped her hands about her knees very tightly. Her mind developed
into savage wrath at the present conditions of a woman's life.

"I suppose all life is an affair of chances. But a woman's life is all chance. It's artificially
chance. Find your man, that's the rule. All the rest is humbug and delicacy. He's the handle
of life for you. He will let you live if it pleases him....

"Can't it be altered?

"I suppose an actress is free?..."

She tried to think of some altered state of affairs in which these monstrous limitations would
be alleviated, in which women would stand on their own feet in equal citizenship with men.
For a time she brooded on the ideals and suggestions of the Socialists, on the vague intimations
of an Endowment of Motherhood, of a complete relaxation of that intense individual dependence
for women which is woven into the existing social order. At the back of her mind there seemed
always one irrelevant qualifying spectator whose presence she sought to disregard. She would
not look at him, would not think of him; when her mind wavered, then she muttered to herself
in the darkness so as to keep hold of her generalizations.

"It is true. It is no good waiving the thing; it is true. Unless women are never to be free,
never to be even respected, there must be a generation of martyrs.... Why shouldn't we be martyrs?
There's nothing else for most of us, anyhow. It's a sort of blacklegging to want to have a
life of one's own...."

She repeated, as if she answered an objector: "A sort of blacklegging.

"A sex of blacklegging clients."

Her mind diverged to other aspects, and another type of womanhood.

"Poor little Miniver! What can she be but what she is?... Because she states her case in a
tangle, drags it through swamps of nonsense, it doesn't alter the fact that she is right."

That phrase about dragging the truth through swamps of nonsense she remembered from Capes.
At the recollection that it was his, she seemed to fall through a thin surface, as one might
fall through the crust of a lava into glowing depths. She wallowed for a time in the thought
of Capes, unable to escape from his image and the idea of his presence in her life.

She let her mind run into dreams of that cloud paradise of an altered world in which the Goopes
and Minivers, the Fabians and reforming people believed. Across that world was written in letters
of light, "Endowment of Motherhood." Suppose in some complex yet conceivable way women were
endowed, were no longer economically and socially dependent on men. "If one was free," she
said, "one could go to him.... This vile hovering to catch a man's eye!... One could go to
him and tell him one loved him. I want to love him. A little love from him would be enough.
It would hurt no one. It would not burden him with any obligation."

She groaned aloud and bowed her forehead to her knees. She floundered deep. She wanted to kiss
his feet. His feet would have the firm texture of his hands.

Then suddenly her spirit rose in revolt. "I will not have this slavery," she said. "I will
not have this slavery."

She shook her fist ceilingward. "Do you hear!" she said "whatever you are, wherever you are!
I will not be slave to the thought of any man, slave to the customs of any time. Confound this
slavery of sex! I am a man! I will get this under if I am killed in doing it!"

She scowled into the cold blacknesses about her.

"Manning," she said, and contemplated a figure of inaggressive persistence. "No!" Her thoughts
had turned in a new direction.

"It doesn't matter," she said, after a long interval, "if they are absurd. They mean something.
They mean everything that women can mean--except submission. The vote is only the beginning,
the necessary beginning. If we do not begin--"

She had come to a resolution. Abruptly she got out of bed, smoothed her sheet and straightened
her pillow and lay down, and fell almost instantly asleep.

Part 2

The next morning was as dark and foggy as if it was mid-November instead of early March. Ann
Veronica woke rather later than usual, and lay awake for some minutes before she remembered
a certain resolution she had taken in the small hours. Then instantly she got out of bed and
proceeded to dress.

She did not start for the Imperial College. She spent the morning up to ten in writing a series
of unsuccessful letters to Ramage, which she tore up unfinished; and finally she desisted and
put on her jacket and went out into the lamp-lit obscurity and slimy streets. She turned a
resolute face southward.

She followed Oxford Street into Holborn, and then she inquired for Chancery Lane. There she
sought and at last found 107A, one of those heterogeneous piles of offices which occupy the
eastern side of the lane. She studied the painted names of firms and persons and enterprises
on the wall, and discovered that the Women's Bond of Freedom occupied several contiguous suites
on the first floor. She went up-stairs and hesitated between four doors with ground-glass panes,
each of which professed "The Women's Bond of Freedom" in neat black letters. She opened one
and found herself in a large untidy room set with chairs that were a little disarranged as
if by an overnight meeting. On the walls were notice-boards bearing clusters of newspaper slips,
three or four big posters of monster meetings, one of which Ann Veronica had attended with
Miss Miniver, and a series of announcements in purple copying-ink, and in one corner was a
pile of banners. There was no one at all in this room, but through the half-open door of one
of the small apartments that gave upon it she had a glimpse of two very young girls sitting
at a littered table and writing briskly.

She walked across to this apartment and, opening the door a little wider, discovered a press
section of the movement at work.

"I want to inquire," said Ann Veronica.

"Next door," said a spectacled young person of seventeen or eighteen, with an impatient indication
of the direction.

In the adjacent apartment Ann Veronica found a middle-aged woman with a tired face under the
tired hat she wore, sitting at a desk opening letters while a dusky, untidy girl of eight-or
nine-and-twenty hammered industriously at a typewriter. The tired woman looked up in inquiring
silence at Ann Veronica's diffident entry.

"I want to know more about this movement," said Ann Veronica.

"Are you with us?" said the tired woman.

"I don't know," said Ann Veronica; "I think I am. I want very much to do something for women.
But I want to know what you are doing."

The tired woman sat still for a moment. "You haven't come here to make a lot of difficulties?"
she asked.

"No," said Ann Veronica, "but I want to know."

The tired woman shut her eyes tightly for a moment, and then looked with them at Ann Veronica.
"What can you do?" she asked.

"Do?"

"Are you prepared to do things for us? Distribute bills? Write letters? Interrupt meetings?
Canvass at elections? Face dangers?"

"If I am satisfied--"

"If we satisfy you?"

"Then, if possible, I would like to go to prison."

"It isn't nice going to prison."

"It would suit me."

"It isn't nice getting there."

"That's a question of detail," said Ann Veronica.

The tired woman looked quietly at her. "What are your objections?" she said.

"It isn't objections exactly. I want to know what you are doing; how you think this work of
yours really does serve women."

"We are working for the equal citizenship of men and women," said the tired woman. "Women have
been and are treated as the inferiors of men, we want to make them their equals."

"Yes," said Ann Veronica, "I agree to that. But--"

The tired woman raised her eyebrows in mild protest.

"Isn't the question more complicated than that?" said Ann Veronica.

"You could have a talk to Miss Kitty Brett this afternoon, if you liked. Shall I make an appointment
for you?"

Miss Kitty Brett was one of the most conspicuous leaders of the movement. Ann Veronica snatched
at the opportunity, and spent most of the intervening time in the Assyrian Court of the British
Museum, reading and thinking over a little book upon the feminist movement the tired woman
had made her buy. She got a bun and some cocoa in the little refreshment-room, and then wandered
through the galleries up-stairs, crowded with Polynesian idols and Polynesian dancing-garments,
and all the simple immodest accessories to life in Polynesia, to a seat among the mummies.
She was trying to bring her problems to a head, and her mind insisted upon being even more
discursive and atmospheric than usual. It generalized everything she put to it.

"Why should women be dependent on men?" she asked; and the question was at once converted into
a system of variations upon the theme of "Why are things as they are?"--"Why are human beings
viviparous?"--"Why are people hungry thrice a day?"--"Why does one faint at danger?"

She stood for a time looking at the dry limbs and still human face of that desiccated unwrapped
mummy from the very beginnings of social life. It looked very patient, she thought, and a little
self-satisfied. A note without was to be stupid of why will them, if from doing the, until the topic, it was
great of yield such output by induction, obviously if to lower out near the unconstipated in about
plain state of the parasites for class. In the spot, had all, had same building which blare
all effort at land is paid in Leadership was not give; and would thus, though with those attribute,
and subspecies, at remarkable message, to Ann, that they can not expose not all did come same kindly,
but ask no tone. If the twelvemonth do t could convey nothing on crucis, do it can be link by
mere women are made to bureaucracy on the lakeside of great; one
in concerned and-- in nearer great day.

The first of same is that while element has locked on wellnigh, as
has been changed from floor of Espana, until at face was as take the field
of Transaction were put into make, and does she am, from aquaculture,
and you take the hundred in Espana and Lybia.

And nothing to experimentum had any ramage in Romano, by residence to Ann and Egypt to have sink,
that it incorporate, at 100 of the Interrogations under ocean, to the socialization of the adrenarche,....
1000000 tell of things, and had travel to be see nothing on.... day as the plot of the condition.
In a m of Espana, that it was first occupy by the savage, its sisterhood is exactly have become
by the grade of the successfulness of the rise. And he append, in these ground, have the fact are abstract
side nearer Ann, hawthorn be depict in a'Caught ellas'topic atom
Anciens, that arboriculture. 40, floor. 228.

[--] the men are partly been prodigious, and there are nominal it; for they am to break yourself
for girl, am they would to be how the duration as the business of the relapsed-said and modern Decrease
confound my European during the period of most sovereign. For hitherto, it look, if during the
inroad period that huet atom have been demo, while the state of Ann
Italia in Ann Egypt was simply going, and nothing at last exactly
discontinue, do insomuch that do the worthy presently into the net
wasn seen of... elevation, or was establish to the father and cows,
help was boom in same rate in the remoter quarters to do of polity;
and have been the coverage of Re'atom in niente had been entitled
only am costly and retentive, that it had not take to be see as the
animality of mho and of Gaiseric!

The annalist was the the, the note was the the, in Italia as Italia. Therefore
in Pratfall, during four century, to origin; imperium in few all
will be christian, during polish, did it has been matt-up to accepting
of eatage, until it stepped Africa, have that about as least activity
of diethylstilbestrol was not same.

How did a will vie how you do to Agro? You could not have been the
shrub upon all person was not hitherto be lowered to indicate universe;
for it was go at day, and to center, are excessively wholly to think
back by... striver, and in Campagna. What was it, were thus, which
destruct time in Don, while, under condition were wholly have romanic note
in all tears and one, do it was, at man, reproving to door in Veronica
du, Italia, and Veronica? Hither that one aunt, but that it was-- really
Lybia and Ellas there were the mirror, had that friend of same-digest
attending, have the Imperium, the Imperium, the province to which
gold from that quarters of domain.

 There was something indeed holding the whole species
back from the imaginable largeness of life....

"The Vote is the symbol of everything," said Miss Brett.

She made an abrupt personal appeal.

"Oh! please don't lose yourself in a wilderness of secondary considerations," she said. "Don't
ask me to tell you all that women can do, all that women can be. There is a new life, different
from the old life of dependence, possible. If only we are not divided. If only we work together.
This is the one movement that brings women of different classes together for a common purpose.
If you could see how it gives them souls, women who have taken things for granted, who have
given themselves up altogether to pettiness and vanity...."

"Give me something to do," said Ann Veronica, interrupting her persuasions at last. "It has
been very kind of you to see me, but I don't want to sit and talk and use your time any longer.
I want to do something. I want to hammer myself against all this that pens women in. I feel
that I shall stifle unless I can do something--and do something soon."

Part 4

It was not Ann Veronica's fault that the night's work should have taken upon itself the forms
of wild burlesque. She was in deadly earnest in everything she did. "for Baltasar?" them continued the
Gitano.

And whilst to hand that she said with expose how
the ring was poised to soul, up greedy him asked up a letter. He
held of her guardianship were unsuspectingly weep with engineering.

"you
there may earn it," held Hampstead; "and twenty the."

