Following up his victories, in pursuit of the vanquished, he got so far from Cuzco that he
found himself in Charcas. So he determined to advance further, subduing every nation of which
he received notice. He eventually prosecuted his conquests so far that he entered Chile, where
he defeated the great Sinchi Michimalongo, and Tangalongo, Sinchi of the Chilians as far as
the river Maule. He came to Coquimbo in Chile and to the banks of the Maule, where he set up
his frontier columns, or as others say a wall, to show the end of his conquests. From this
campaign he returned with great riches in gold, having discovered many mines of gold and silver.
He then returned to Cuzco.

These spoils were joined with those of Uturuncu Achachi, who had returned from the forests
of the Antis after a campaign of three years. He was at Paucar-tampu, awaiting the return of
his brother, who entered Cuzco with a very great triumph. They made great feasts to commemorate
the conquests, presenting gifts and granting many favours to the soldiers who had served with
the Inca in these campaigns. As the provinces of the Chumpi-vilicas saw the power and greatness
of Tupac Inca Yupanqui they came to submit with the rest of Cunti-suyu.

[Note 107: i.e. their skins were made into drums.]

Besides this the Inca went to Chachapoyas, and crushed those who had been suspected, visiting
many provinces on the road.

On his return to Cuzco he made certain ordinances, as well for peace as for war time. He increased
the mitimaes which his father had instituted, as has been explained in the account of his life,
giving more privileges and liberty. Besides, he caused a general visitation to be made of all
the land from Quito to Chile, registering the whole population for more than a thousand leagues;
and imposed a tribute [so heavy that no one could be owner of a mazorca of maize, which is
their bread for food, nor of a pair of usutas, which are their shoes, nor marry, nor do a single
thing without special licence from Tupac Inca. Such was the tyranny and oppression to which
he subjected them]. He placed over the tucuricos a class of officers called Michu[108] to collect
the taxes and tributes.

[Note 108: Michu should be Michec a shepherd, also a governor. Michisca the governed.]

Tupac Inca saw that in the districts and provinces the Sinchis claimed to inherit by descent.
He resolved to abolish this rule, and to put them all under his feet, both great and small.
He, therefore, deposed the existing Sinchis, and introduced a class of ruler at his own will,
who were selected in the following way. He appointed a ruler who should have charge of 10,000
men, and called him huanu, which means that number. He appointed another ruler over 1000, and
called him huaranca, which is 1000. The next had charge of 500, called pichca-pachaca, or 500.
To another called pachac he gave charge of 100, and to another he gave charge of 10 men, called
chunca curaca. All these had also the title of Curaca, which means "principal" or "superior,"
over the number of men of whom they had charge. These appointments depended solely on the will
of the Inca, who appointed and dismissed them as he pleased, without considering inheritance,
or succession. From that time forward they were called Curacas, which is the proper name of
the chiefs of this land, and not Caciques, which is the term used by the vulgar among the Spaniards.
That name of Cacique belongs to the islands of Santo Domingo and Cuba. From this place we will
drop the name of Sinchi and only use that of Curaca.

LI.

TUPAC INCA MAKES THE YANACONAS.

Among the brothers of the Inca there was one named Tupac Ccapac, a principal man, to whom Tupac
Inca had given many servants to work on his farms, and serve on his estates. It is to be understood
that Tupac Inca made his brother visitor-general of the whole empire that had been conquered
up to that time. Tupac Ccapac, in making the visitation, came to the place where his brother
had given him those servants. Under colour of this grant, he took those and also many more,
saying that all were his yana-cunas[109], which is the name they give to their servants. He
persuaded them to rebel against his brother, saying that if they would help him he would show
them great favours. He then marched to Cuzco, very rich and powerful, where he gave indications
of his intentions.

[Note 109: Garcilasso de la Vega says that the meaning of Yanacona is "a man who is under the
obligation to perform the duties of a servant." Balboa, p. 129, tells the same story of the
origin of the Yanaconas as in the text. The amnesty was granted on the banks of the river Yana-yacu,
and here they were called Yana-yacu-cuna, corrupted into Yana-cona. The Spaniards adopted the
word for all Indians in domestic service, as distinguished from mitayos or forced labourers.]

He intended his schemes to be kept secret, but Tupac Inca was informed of them and came to
Cuzco. He had been away at the ceremony of arming one of his sons named Ayar Manco. Having
convinced himself that his information was correct, he killed Tupac Ccapac with all his councillors
and supporters. Finding that many tribes had been left out of the visitation by him, for this
attempt, Tupac Inca went in person from Cuzco, to investigate the matter and finish the visitation.

While doing this the Inca came to a place called Yana-yacu, which means "black water" because
a stream of a very dark colour flows down that valley, and for that reason they call the river
and valley Yana-yacu. Up to this point he had been inflicting very cruel punishment without
pardoning any one who was found guilty either in word or deed. In this valley of Yana-yacu
his sister and wife, Mama Ocllo, asked him not to continue such cruelties, which were more
butchery and inhumanity than punishment, and not to kill any more but to pardon them, asking
for them as her servants. In consequence of this intercession, the Inca ceased the slaughter,
and said that he would grant a general pardon. As the pardon was proclaimed in Yana-yacu, he
ordered that all the pardoned should be called Yana-yacus. They were known as not being allowed
to enter in the number of servants of the House of the Sun, nor those of the visitation. So
they remained under the Curacas. This affair being finished, the visitation made by Tupac Ccapac
was considered to be of no effect. So the Inca returned to Cuzco with the intention of ordering
another visitation to be made afresh.

As the visitation entrusted to Tupac Ccapac was not to his liking, the Inca revoked it, and
nominated another brother named Apu Achachi to be visitor-general. The Inca ordered him not
to include the Yana-yacus in the visitation, because they were unworthy to enter into the number
of the rest, owing to what they had done, Apu Achachi set out and made his general visitation,
reducing many of the Indians to live in villages and houses who had previously lived in caves
and hills and on the banks of rivers, each one by himself. He sent those in strong fastnesses
into plains, that they might have no site for a fortress, on the strength of which they might
rebel. He reduced them into provinces, giving them their Curacas in the order already described.
He did not make the son of the deceased a Curaca, but the man who had most ability and aptitude
for the service. If the appointment did not please the Inca he, without more ado, dismissed
him and appointed another, so that no Curaca, high or low, felt secure in his appointment.
To these Curacas were given servants, women and estates, submitting an account of them, for,
though they were Curacas, they could not take a thing of their own authority, without express
leave from the Inca.

In each province all those of the province made a great sowing of every kind of edible vegetable
for the Inca, his overseers coming to the harvest. Above all there was a Tucurico Apu, who
was the governor-lieutenant of the Inca in that province. It is true that the first Inca who
obliged the Indians of this land to pay tribute of everything, and in quantity, was Inca Yupanqui.
But Tupac Inca imposed rules and fixed the tribute they must pay, and divided it according
to what each province was to contribute as well for the general tax as those for Huacas, and
Houses of the Sun. [In this way the people were so loaded with tributes and taxes, that they
had to work perpetually night and day to pay them, and even then they could not comply, and
had no time for sufficient labour to suffice for their own maintenance.]

Tupac Inca divided the estates throughout the whole empire, according to the measure which
they call tupu.

He divided the months of the year, with reference to labour in the fields, as follows. Three
months in the year were allotted to the Indians for the work of their own fields, and the rest
must be given up to the work of the Sun, of huacas, and of the Inca. In the three months that
were given to themselves, one was for ploughing and sowing, one for reaping, and another in
the summer for festivals, and for make and mend clothes days. The rest of their time was demanded
for the service of the Sun and the Incas.

This Inca ordered that there should be merchants who might profit by their industry in this
manner. When any merchant brought gold, silver, precious stones, or other valuable things for
sale, they were to be asked where they got them, and in this way they gave information respecting
the mines and places whence the valuables had been taken. Thus a very great many mines of gold
and silver, and of very fine colours, were discovered.

This Inca had two Governors-General in the whole empire, called Suyuyoc Apu[110]; one resided
at Xauxa and the other at Tiahuanacu in Colla-suyu.

[Note 110: Suyu a great division of the empire, or a province. Yoc a terminal particle denoting
possession or office.]

Tupac Inca ordered the seclusion of certain women in the manner of our professed nuns, maidens
of 12 years and upwards, who were called acllas[111]. From thence they were taken to be given
in marriage to the Tucurico Apu, or by order of the Inca who, when any captain returned with
victory, distributed the acllas to captains, soldiers and other servants who had pleased him,
as gracious gifts which were highly valued. As they took out some, they were replaced by others,
for there must always be the number first ordained by the Inca. If any man takes one out, or
is caught inside with one they are both hanged, tied together.

[Note 111: Aclla means chosen, selected.]

This Inca made many ordinances, in his tyrannical mode of government, which will be given in
a special volume.

LIII.

TUPAC INCA MAKES THE FORTRESS OF CUZCO.

After Tupac Inca Yupanqui had visited all the empire and had come to Cuzco where he was served
and adored, being for the time idle, he remembered that his father Pachacuti had called the
city of Cuzco the lion city. He said that the tail was where the two rivers unite which flow
through it[112], that the body was the great square and the houses round it, and that the head
was wanting. It would be for some son of his to put it on. The Inca discussed this question
with the orejones, who said that the best head would be to make a fortress on a high plateau
to the north of the city.

[Note 112: This district of Cuzco has always been called Pumap chupan or tail of the puma.]

This being settled, the Inca sent to all the provinces, to order the tucuricos to supply a
large number of people for the work of the fortress. Having come, the workmen were divided
into parties, each one having its duties and officers. Thus some brought stones, others worked
them, others placed them. The diligence was such that in a few years, the great fortress of
Cuzco was built, sumptuous, exceedingly strong, of rough stone, a thing most admirable to look
upon. The buildings within it were of small worked stone, so beautiful that, if it had not
been seen, it would not be believed how strong and beautiful it was. What makes it still more
worthy of admiration is that they did not possess tools to work the stone, but could only work
with other stones. This fortress was intact until the time of the differences between Pizarro
and Almagro, after which they began to dismantle it, to build with its stones the houses of
Spaniards in Cuzco, which are at the foot of the fortress. Great regret is felt by those who
see the ruins. When it was finished, the Inca made many store houses round Cuzco for provisions
and clothing, against times of necessity and of war; which was a measure of great importance[113].

[Note 113: This fortress of Cuzco, on the Sacsahuaman Hill, was well described by Cieza de
Leon and in greater detail by Garcilasso de la Vega, ii. pp. 305--318. Both ascribe it to Inca
Yupanqui or his son Tupac Inca, as does Sarmiento. The extensive edifices, built of masonry
of his period, were no doubt the work of Tupac Inca who thus got credit for the whole. These
later edifices were pulled down by the Spaniards, for material for building their houses in
the city. But the wonderful cyclopean work that remains is certainly of much more ancient date,
and must be assigned, like Tiahuanacu, to the far distant age of the monolithic empire.]

LIV.

DEATH OF TUPAC INCA YUPANQUI.

Having visited and divided the lands, and built the fortress of Cuzco, besides edifices and
houses without number, Tupac Inca Yupanqui went to Chinchero[114], a town near Cuzco, where
he had very rich things for his recreation; and there he ordered extensive gardens to be constructed
to supply his household. When the work was completed he fell ill of a grave infirmity, and
did not wish to be visited by anyone. But as he became worse and felt the approach of death,
he sent for the orejones of Cuzco, his relations, and when they had assembled in his presence
he said: "My relations and friends! I would have you to know that the Sun my Father desires
to take me to himself, and I wish to go and rest with him. I have called you to let you know
who it is that I desire to succeed me as lord and sovereign, and who is to rule and govern
you." They answered that they grieved much at his illness, that as the Sun his father had so
willed it so must it be, that his will must be done, and they besought the Inca to nominate
him who was to be sovereign in his place. Tupac Inca then replied: "I nominate for my successor
my son Titu Cusi Hualpa, son of my sister and wife, Mama Ocllo." For this they offered many
thanks, and afterwards the Inca sank down on his pillow and died, having lived 85 years.

[Note 114: Chinchero is a village near Cuzco, on the heights overlooking the lovely valley
of Yucay, with magnificent mountains in the background. The remains of the Inca palace are
still standing, not unlike those on the Colcampata at Cuzco.]

Tupac Inca succeeded his father at the age of 18 years. He had two legitimate sons, 60 bastards,
and 30 daughters. Some say that at the time of his death, or a short time before, he had nominated
one of his illegitimate sons to succeed him named Ccapac Huari, son of a concubine whose name
was Chuqui Ocllo.

He left a lineage or ayllu called Ccapac Ayllu, whose heads, who sustain it and are now living,
are Don Andres Tupac Yupanqui, Don Cristobal Pisac Tupac, Don Garcia Vilcas, Don Felipe Tupac
Yupanqui, Don Garcia Azache, and Don Garcia Pilco. They are Hanan-cuzcos.

The deceased Inca was frank, merciful in peace, cruel in war and punishments, a friend to the
poor, a great man of indefatigable industry and a notable builder. [He was the greatest tyrant
of all the Incas.] He died in the year 1528. Chalco Chima burnt his body in 1533, when he captured
Huascar, as will be related in its place. The ashes, with his idol or guauqui called Cusi-churi,
were found in Calis-puquiu where the Indians had concealed it, and offered to it many sacrifices.

LV.

THE LIFE OF HUAYNA CCAPAC, ELEVENTH INCA[115].

[Note 115: All authorities agree that Huayna Ccapac was the son and successor of Tupac Inca.]

As soon as Tupac Inca was dead, the orejones, who were with him at the time of his death, proceeded
to Cuzco for the customary ceremonies. These were to raise the Inca his successor before the
death of his father had become known to him, and to follow the same order as in the case of
the death of Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui. As the wives and sons of Tupac Inca also went to Cuzco,
the matter could not be kept secret. A woman who had been a concubine of the late Inca, named
Ccuri Ocllo, a kins-woman of Ccapac Huari, as soon as she arrived at Cuzco, spoke to her relations
and to Ccapac Huari in these words. "Sirs and relations! Know that Tupac Inca is dead and that,
when in health, he had named Ccapac Huari for his successor, but at the end, being on the point
of death, he said that Titu Cusi Hualpa, son of Mama Ocllo, should succeed him. You ought not
to consent to this. Rather call together all your relations and friends, and raise Ccapac Huari,
your elder brother, son of Chuqui Ocllo, to be Inca." This seemed well to all the relations
of Ccapac Huari, and they sent to assemble all the other relations on his behalf.

While this was proceeding, the orejones of Cuzco, knowing nothing of it, were arranging how
to give the fringe to Titu Cusi Hualpa. The plot of the party of Ccapac Huari became known
to the late Inca's brother, Huaman Achachi. He assembled some friends, made them arm themselves,
and they went to where Titu Cusi Hualpa was retired and concealed. They then proceeded to where
the friends of Ccapac Huari had assembled, and killed many of them, including Ccapac Huari
himself. Others say that they did not kill Ccapac Huari at that time, but only took him. His
mother Chuqui Ocllo was taken and, being a rebel as well as a witch who had killed her lord
Tupac Inca, she was put to death. Ccapac Huari was banished to Chinchero, where he was given
a maintenance, but he was never allowed to enter Cuzco again until his death. They also killed
the woman Ccuri Ocllo, who had advised the raising of Ccapac Huari to the Incaship.

The city of Cuzco being pacified, Huaman Achachi went to Quispicancha, three leagues from Cuzco,
where Titu Cusi Hualpa was concealed, and brought his nephew to Cuzco, to the House of the
Sun. After the sacrifices and accustomed ceremonies, the image of the Sun delivered the fringe
to Titu Cusi Hualpa.

This being done, and the new Inca having been invested with all the insignia of Ccapac, and
placed in a rich litter, they bore him to the huaca Huanacauri, where he offered a sacrifice.
The orejones returned to Cuzco by the route taken by Manco Ccapac.

Arrived at the first square, called Rimac-pampa, the accession was announced to the people,
and they were ordered to come and do homage to the new Inca. When they all assembled, and saw
how young he was, never having seen him before, they all raised their voices and called him
Huayna Ccapac which means "the boy chief" or "the boy sovereign." For this reason he was called
Huayna Ccapac from that time, and the name Titu Cusi Hualpa was no longer used. They celebrated
festivals, armed him as a knight, adored, and presented many gifts---as was customary.

LVII.

THE FIRST ACTS OF HUAYNA CCAPAC AFTER HE BECAME INCA.

As Huayna Ccapac was very young when he succeeded, they appointed a tutor and coadjutor for
him named Hualpaya, a son of Ccapac Yupanqui, brother of Inca Yupanqui. This prince made a
plot to raise himself to the Incaship, but it became known to Huaman Achachi, then Governor
of Chinchay-suyu. At the time he was in Cuzco, and he and his people killed Hualpaya and others
who were culpable.

Huaman Achachi assumed the government, but always had as a councillor his own brother Auqui
Tupac Inca. In course of time Huayna Ccapac went to the House of the Sun, held a visitation,
took account of the officials, and provided what was necessary for the service, and for that
of the Mama-cunas. He took the chief custodianship of the Sun from him who then held it, and
assumed the office himself with the title of "Shepherd of the Sun." He next visited the other
huacas and oracles, and their estates. He also inspected the buildings of the city of Cuzco
and the houses of the orejones.

Huayna Ccapac ordered the body of his father Tupac Inca to be embalmed. After the sacrifices,
the mourning, and other ceremonies, he placed the body in the late Inca's residence which was
prepared for it, and gave his servants all that was necessary for their maintenance and services.
The same Huayna Ccapac mourned for his father and for his mother who died nearly at the same time.

LVIII.

HUAYNA CCAPAC CONQUERS CHACHAPOYAS.

After Huayna Ccapac had given orders respecting the things mentioned in the last chapter, it
was reported to him that there were certain tribes near the territory of the Chachapoyas which
might be conquered, and that on the way he might subdue the Chachapoyas who had rebelled. He
gave orders to his orejones and assembled a large army. He set out from Cuzco, having first
offered sacrifices and observed the calpa[116]. On the route he took, he reformed many things.
Arriving at the land of the Chachapoyas, they, with other neighbouring tribes, put themselves
in a posture of defence. They were eventually vanquished and treated with great severity. The
Inca then returned to Cuzco and triumphed at the victory gained over the Chachapoyas and other
nations.

[Note 116: Calpa means force, power. Calpay work. Calparicu "one who gives strength," used
for a wizard. The Calpa was a ceremony connected with divination.]

While he was absent on this campaign, he left as Governor of Cuzco one of his illegitimate
brothers named Sinchi Rocca, an eminent architect. He built all the edifices at Yucay, and
the houses of the Inca at Casana in the city of Cuzco. He afterwards built other edifices round
Cuzco for Huayna Ccapac, on sites which appeared most convenient.

Huayna Ccapac having rested in Cuzco for a long time and, wishing to undertake something, considered
that it was a long time since he had visited the empire. He determined that there should be
a visitation, and named his uncle Huaman Achachi to conduct it in Chinchay-suyu as far as Quito,
he himself undertaking the region of Colla-suyu.

Each one set out, Huayna Ccapac, in person, taking the route to the Collao, where he examined
into the government of his tucuricos, placing and dismissing governors and Curacas, opening
lands and making bridges and irrigating channels. Constructing these works he arrived at Charcas
and went thence to Chile, which his father had conquered, where he dismissed the governor,
and appointed two native Curacas named Michimalongo and Antalongo, who had been vanquished
by his father. Having renewed the garrison, he came to Coquimbo and Copiapo, also visiting
Atacama and Arequipa. He next went to Anti-suyu and Alayda, by way of Collao and Charcas. He
entered the valley of Cochabamba, and there made provinces of mitimaes in all parts, because
the natives were few, and there was space for all, the land being fertile. Thence he went to
Pocona to give orders on that frontier against the Chirihuanas, and to repair a fortress which
had been built by his father.

While engaged on these measures, he received news that the provinces of Quito, Cayambis, Carangues,
Pastos, and Huancavilcas had rebelled. He, therefore, hurried his return and came to Tiahuanacu,
where he prepared for war against the Quitos and Cayambis, and gave orders how the Urus[117]
were to live, granting them localities in which each tribe of them was to fish in the lake.
He visited the Temple of the Sun and the huaca of Ticci Viracocha on the island of Titicaca,
and sent orders that all those provinces should send troops to go to that war which he had
proclaimed.

Knowing that the Pastos, Quitos, Carangues, Cayambis and Huancavilcas had rebelled, killed
the tucuricos, and strengthened their positions with strong forces, Huayna Ccapac, with great
rapidity, collected a great army from all the districts of the four suyus. He nominated Michi
of the Hurin-cuzcos, and Auqui Tupac of the Hanan-cuzcos as captains, and left his uncle Huaman
Achachi as governor of Cuzco. Others say that he left Apu Hilaquito and Auqui Tupac Inca in
Cuzco, with his son who was to succeed named Tupac Cusi Hualpa Inti Illapa, and with him another
of his sons named Titu Atanchi, who remained to perform the fasts before knighthood. It is
to be noted that Huayna Ccapac was married, in conformity with custom and with the prescribed
ceremonies to Cusi Rimay Coya, by whom he had no male child. He, therefore, took his sister
Araua Ocllo to wife, by whom he had a son Tupac Cusi Hualpa, vulgarly called Huascar. Preparing
for the campaign he ordered that Atahualpa and Ninan Cuyoche, his illegitimate sons, now grown
men, should go with him. His other sons, also illegitimate, named Manco Inca and Paulu Tupac,
were to remain with Huascar.

These arrangements having been made, the Inca set out for Quito. On the way he came to Tumipampa
where he had himself been born. Here he erected great edifices where he placed, with great
solemnity, the caul in which he was born. Marching onwards and reaching the boundary of the
region where the Quitos were in arms, he marshalled his squadrons, and presently resolved to
conquer the Pastos. For this service he selected two captains of the Collao, one named Mollo
Cavana, the other Mollo Pucara, and two others of Cunti-suyu named Apu Cautar Canana and Cunti
Mollo, under whose command he placed many men of their nations, and 2000 orejones as guards,
under Auqui Tupac Inca, brother of Huayna Ccapac and Acollo Tupac of the lineage of Viracocha.
They marched to the country of the Pastos who fell back on their chief place, leaving their
old people, women and children, with a few men, that the enemy might think there was no one
else. The Incas easily conquered these and, thinking that was all, they gave themselves up
to idleness and pleasure. One night, when they were engaged in a great rejoicing, eating and
drinking freely, without sentries, the Pastos attacked them, and there was a great slaughter,
especially among the Collas. Those who escaped, fled until they came to the main army of the
Incas which was following them. They say that Atahualpa and Ninan Cuyoche brought up assistance,
and that, with the confidence thus gained, Huayna Ccapac ordered the war to be waged most cruelly.
So they entered the country of the Pastos a second time, burning and destroying the inhabited
places and killing all the people great and small, men and women, young and old. That province
having been subdued, a governor was appointed to it.

Huayna Ccapac then returned to Tumipampa, where he rested some days, before moving his camp
for the conquest of the Carangues, a very warlike nation. In this campaign he subdued the Macas
to the confines of the Cañaris, those of Quisna, of Ancamarca, the province of Puruvay, the
Indians of Nolitria, and other neighbouring nations.

Thence he went down to Tumbez, a seaport, and then came to the fortresses of Carangui and Cochisque.
In commencing to subdue those of Cochisque he met with a stubborn resistance by valiant men,
and many were killed on both sides. At length the place was taken, and the men who escaped
were received in the fortress of Carangui. The Incas decided that the country surrounding this
fortress should first be subdued. They desolated the country as far as Ancas-mayu and Otabalo,
those who escaped from the fury of the Incas taking refuge in the fortress. Huayna Ccapac attacked
it with his whole force, but was repulsed by the garrison with much slaughter, and the orejones
were forced to fly, defeated by the Cayambis, the Inca himself being thrown down. He would
have been killed if a thousand of his guard had not come up with their captains Cusi Tupac
Yupanqui and Huayna Achachi, to rescue and raise him. The sight of this animated the orejones.
All turned to defend their Inca, and pressed on with such vigour that the Cayambis were driven
back into their fortress. The Inca army, in one encounter and the other, suffered heavy loss.

Huayna Ccapac, on this account, returned to Tumipampa, where he recruited his army, preparing
to resume the attack on the Cayambis. At this time some orejones deserted the Inca, leaving
him to go back to Cuzco. Huayna Ccapac satisfied the rest by gifts of clothes, provisions,
and other things, and he formed an efficient army.

It was reported that the Cayambis had sallied from their fortress and had defeated a detachment
of the Inca army, killing many, and the rest escaping by flight. This caused great sorrow to
the Inca, who sent his brother Auqui Toma, with an army composed of all nations, against the
Cayambis of the fortress. Auqui Toma went, attacked the fortress, captured four lines of defence
and the outer wall, which was composed of five. But at the entrance the Cayambis killed Auqui
Toma, captain of the Cuzcos, who had fought most valorously. This attack and defence was so
obstinate and long continued that an immense number of men fell, and the survivors had nowhere
to fight except upon heaps of dead men. The desire of both sides to conquer or die was so strong
that they gave up their lances and arrows and took to their fists. At last, when they saw that
their captain was killed, the Incas began to retreat towards a river, into which they went
without any care for saving their lives. The river was in flood and a great number of men were
drowned. This was a heavy loss for the cause of Huayna Ccapac. Those who escaped from drowning
and from the hands of the enemy, sent the news to the Inca from the other side of the river.
Huayna Ccapac received the news of this reverse with heavier grief than ever, for he dearly
loved his brother Auqui Toma, who had been killed with so many men who were the pick of the army.

