"

"How kind," murmured Mrs Keswick, as she clung to the arm of Mr Brandon, "for you to bring
our good friend, Colonel Macon." 

But the American was a free citizen, any one's equal, a voter with a personal interest in his
country's welfare, and, above all, without having perpetually before his eyes the degrading fear
of the press-gang. In consequence, he was more tractable than the Englishman, more self-reliant,
and possessed greater judgment. In the fight between the Wasp and the Frolic, the latter's
crew had apparently been well trained at the guns, for they aimed
well; but they fired at the wrong time, and never corrected the error;
while their antagonists, delivering their broadsides far more slowly,
by intelligently waiting until the proper moment, worked frightful
havoc.

But though there was a certain slight difference between the seamen of the two nations, it must
never be forgotten that it was very much less than that between the various individuals of the same
nation; and when the British had been trained for a few years by such commanders as Broke and
Manners, it was impossible to surpass them, and it needed our best men to equal them.] Both were
bold and hardy, cool and intelligent, quick with their hands, and showing at their best in an
emergency. They looked alike and spoke alike; when they took the trouble to think, they thought
alike; and when they got drunk, which was not an infrequent occurrence,
they quarrelled alike.

Mingled
with them were a few seamen of other nationalities.

The Irishman, if he came from the old Dano-Irish towns of Waterford, Dublin, and Wexford, or
from the Ulster coast, was very much like the two chief combatants; the Celto-Turanian kern
of the west did not often appear on shipboard. The French, Danes, and Dutch were hemmed in
at home; they had enough to do on their own seaboard, and could not send men into foreign fleets.
A few Norse, however, did come in, and excellent sailors and fighters they made. With the Portuguese
and Italians, of whom some were to be found serving under the union-jack,
and others under the stars and stripes, it was different; although
there were many excellent exceptions they did not, as a rule, make
the best of seamen.

They were treacherous, fond of the knife, less ready with their hands,
and likely to lose either their wits or their courage when in a tight
place.

In the American navy, unlike the British, there was no impressment;
the sailor was a volunteer, and he shipped in whatever craft his fancy
selected.

Throughout the war there were no "picked crews" on the American side, [Footnote: James'statements
to the contrary being in every case utterly without foundation.

He is also wrong in his assertion that the American ships had no
boys; they had nearly as many in proportion as the British.

The Constitution had 31, the Adams 15, etc. So, when he states that
our midshipmen were generally masters and mates of merchantmen; they
were generally from eleven to seventeen years old at the beginning
of the war, and besides, had rarely or never been in the merchant
marine.] excepting on the last two cruises of the Constitution.

In fact (as seen by the letter of Captains Stewart and Bainbridge
to Secretary Hamilton), there was often much difficulty in getting
enough men.

[Footnote: Reading through the volumes of official letters about this war, which are preserved
in the office of the Secretary of the Navy, one of the most noticeable things is the continual
complaints about the difficulty of getting men. The Adams at one time had a crew of but nineteen
men-- "fourteen of whom are marines," adds the aggrieved commander. A log-book of one of the
gun-boats records the fact that after much difficulty two men were enlisted-- from the jail,
with a parenthetical memorandum to the effect that they were both
very drunk.

British ships were much more easily manned, as they could always
have recourse to impressment.

The
Constitution on starting out her last cruises had an extraordinary
number of able seamen aboard, viz., 218, with but 92 ordinary seamen,
12 boys, and 44 marines, making, with the officers, a total of 440
men.

(See letter of Captain Bainbridge, Oct. 16, 1814; it is letter No. 51, in the fortieth volume
of "Captains'Letters," in the clerk's office of the Secretary of
the Navy.)] Many sailors preferred to serve in the innumerable privateers,
and, the two above-mentioned officers, in urging the necessity of
building line-of-battle ships, state that it was hard work to recruit
men for vessels of an inferior grade, so long as the enemy had ships
of the line.

One of the standard statements made by the British historians about this war is that our ships
were mainly or largely manned by British sailors. This, if true, would not interfere with the lessons
which it teaches; and, besides that, it is not true. Mr Brandon had
thought of writing to Junius, in the hope that the young man might do something to avert his
fate, but remembering how utterly unable Junius had always been to move his aunt one inch,
this way or that, he did not believe that he could be of any service in this case, in which
all the energies of her mind were evidently engaged, and he readily consented that she should
attend to all the correspondence. Finally the psychotherapist may go still one step further.
After all it often seems inexplainable that just this or that emotional experience made such
a deep and lasting impression while a thousand other experiences passed by without leaving any
mischievous after-effect. There were two women in the house,
who were busy sewing for her, and it would be impossible for her to come to Richmond. 

When four days out, on Oct. 12th, Commodore Decatur had separated from the rest of Rodgers'squadron
and cruised east; on the 25th, in lat. 29 deg. N., and long. 29 deg. 30'W. while going close-hauled
on the port tack, with the wind fresh from the S. S. E., a sail was descried on the weather
beam, about 12 miles distant.

[Footnote: Official letter of Commodore Decatur, Oct. 30. 1812.] This was the British 38-gun
frigate Macedonian, Captain John Surnam Carden. She was not, like the Guerriere, an old ship
captured from the French, but newly built of oak and larger than any American 18-pounder frigate;
she was reputed (very wrongfully) to be a "crack ship." [Footnote: Marshall's "Naval Biography,"
vol. iv, p. 1018.] How they could have practised so much and learned
so little is certainly marvellous.

The
Macedonian set her foretop-mast and top-gallant studdings sails and bore away in chase, [Footnote:
Capt. Carden to Mr. Croker, Oct. 28, 1812.] edging down with the wind a little aft the starboard
beam. Her first lieutenant wished to continue on this course and pass down ahead of the United
States, [Footnote: James, vi. 165.] but Capt. Carden's over-anxiety to keep the weather-gage
lost him this opportunity of closing.

[Footnote: Sentence of Court-martial held on the San Domingo, 74. at the Bermudas. May 27, 1812.]
Accordingly he hauled by the wind and passed way to windward of the American. As Commodore
Decatur got within range, he eased off and fired a broadside, most of which fell short [Footnote:
Marshall, iv, 1080.]; he then kept his luff, and, the next time he fired, his long 24's told
heavily, while he received very little injury himself. [Footnote: Cooper, 11, 178.] The fire
from his main-deck (for he did not use his carronades at all for the first half hour) [Footnote:
Letter of Commodore Decatur.] was so very rapid that it seemed as if the ship was on fire; his
broadsides were delivered with almost twice the rapidity of those
of the Englishman.

[Footnote: James, vi, 169.] The latter soon found he could not play
at long bowls with any chance of success; and, having already erred
either from timidity or bad judgment, Captain Carden decided to add
rashness to the catalogue of his virtues.

Accordingly he bore up, and came down end on toward his adversary, with the wind on his port quarter.
The States now (10.15) laid her main-topsail aback and made heavy play with her long guns,
and, as her adversary came nearer, with her carronades also.

The British ship would reply with her starboard guns, hauling up to do so; as she came down, the
American would ease off, run a little way and again come to, keeping up a terrific fire. As the
Macedonian bore down to close, the chocks of all her forecastle guns (which were mounted on the outside)
were cut away [Footnote: Letter of Captain Carden.]; her fire caused some damage to the American's
rigging, but hardly touched her hull, while she herself suffered so heavily both alow and aloft
that she gradually dropped to leeward, while the American fore-reached on her. Finding herself ahead
and to windward, the States tacked and ranged up under her adversary's lee, when the latter struck
her colors at 11.15, just an hour and a half after the beginning of the action. [Footnote: Letter
of Commodore Decatur.] The United States had suffered surprisingly
little; what damage had been done was aloft.

Her mizzen top-gallant mast was cut away, some of the spars were wounded, and the rigging a good deal
cut; the hull was only struck two or three times. 

The hysteric patient may by any chance pick up the idea that her right arm is paralyzed or is anaesthetic
and the idea at once transforms itself into a belief and the belief clings to her like an obsession
and produces the effect that she is unable to move the arm or that she does not feel a pinprick
on the skin. These autosuggestions may take a firmer hold of the mind than any suggestions
from without, but surely such openness to selfimplanted beliefs must
be acknowledged as symptomatic of disease, while hypnosis with its
impositions can be broken off at any moment and thus should no more
be classed among the diseases than are sleep and dreams.

The hysteric or psychasthenic autosuggestion resists the mere will
of breaking it off. Her only
complaint is a persistent idea that she may at any time get a child. She has had this idea "as
long as she can remember," according to her first expression. She never had any intimate acquaintance
with any man, she was never engaged, she hated bitterly every thought of immorality, she knows
and has assured herself by much reading that it is entirely impossible that she might get a child
without sexual contact. And, with these words,
the old lady turned her back on the clergyman, and walked rapidly down the centre aisle, until
she reached the church door. In this last case the forces of the two ships compared almost exactly
as their rates. A 44 was matched against a 38; it was not surprising that she should win, but
it was surprising that she should win with ease and impunity.

THE END.