THE VEILED LADY

And Other Men And Women

By

F. Hopkinson Smith

CONTENTS

  THE VEILED LADY OF STAMBOUL
  LORETTA OF THE SHIPYARDS
  A COAT OF RED LEAD
  MISS MURDOCK,--"SPECIAL"
  THE BEGUILING OF PETER GRIGGS
  MISS JENNINGS'S COMPANION
  SAM JOPLIN'S EPIGASTRIC NERVE
  MISS BUFFUM'S NEW BOARDER
  CAPTAIN JOE AND THE SUSIE ANN
  "AGAINST ORDERS"
  MUGGLES'S SUPREME MOMENT

To my Readers:

This collection of stories has been labelled "The Veiled Lady" as being the easiest way out
of a dilemma; and yet the title may be misleading. While, beyond doubt, there is between these
covers a most charming and lovable Houri, to whom the nightingales sing lullabies, there can
also be found a surpassingly beautiful Venetian whose love affairs upset a Quarter, a common-sense,
motherly nurse whose heart warmed toward her companion in the adjoining berth, a plucky New
England girl with the courage of her convictions, and a prim spinster whose only consolation
was the boarder who sat opposite.

Nor does the list by any means end here. Rough sea-dogs, with friendly feelings toward other
dogs, crop up, as well as brave Titans who make derricks of their arms and fender-piles of
their bodies. Here, too, are skinny, sun-dried Excellencies with a taste for revolutions, well-groomed
club swells with a taste for adventure and cocktails, not to mention half a dozen gay, rollicking
Bohemians with a taste for everything that came their way.

Perhaps it might have been best to enclose each story in a separate cover, and then to dump
the unassorted lot upon the table, where those who wished could make their choice. And yet,
as I turn the leaves, I must admit that, after all, the present form is best, since each and
every incident, situation, and bit of local color has either passed before or was poured into
the wide-open eyes and willing ears of your most humble and obedient servant

A Staid Old Painter.

  150 East 34th Street,
    New York, March 13, 1907.

THE VEILED LADY OF STAMBOUL

Joe Hornstog told me this story--the first part of it; the last part of it came to me in a
way which proves how small the world is.

Joe belongs to that conglomerate mass of heterogeneous nationalities found around the Golden
Horn, whose ancestry is as difficult to trace as a gypsy's. He says he is a "Jew gentleman
from Germany," but he can't prove it, and he knows he can't.

There is no question about his being part Jew, and there is a strong probability of his being
part German, and, strange to say, there is not the slightest doubt of his being part gentleman--in
his own estimation; and I must say in mine, when I look back over an acquaintance covering
many years and remember how completely my bank account was at his disposal and how little of
its contents he appropriated.

And yet, were I required to hold up my hand in open court, I would have to affirm that Joe,
whatever his other strains might be, was, after all, ninety-nine per cent. Levantine--which
is another way of saying that he is part of every nationality about him.

As to his honesty and loyalty, is he not the chosen dragoman of kings and princes when they
journey into far distant lands (he speaks seven languages and many tribal dialects), and is
he not today wearing in his buttonhole the ribbon of the order of the Mejidieh, bestowed upon
him by his Imperial Highness the Sultan, in reward for his ability and faithfulness?

I must admit that I myself have been his debtor--not once, but many times. It was this same
quick-sighted, quick-witted Levantine who lifted me from my sketching stool and stood me on
my feet in the plaza of the Hippodrome one morning just in time to prevent my being trodden
under foot by six Turks carrying the body of their friend to the cemetery--in time, too, to
save me from the unforgivable sin among Orientals, of want of reverence for their dead. I had
heard the tramp of the pall-bearers, and supposing it to be that of the Turkish patrol, had
kept at work. They were prowling everywhere, day and night, and during those days they passed
every ten minutes--nine soldiers in charge of an officer of police--all owing to the fact that
some five thousand Armenians, anxious to establish a new form of government, had been wiped
out of existence only the week before.

Once on my feet (Joe accomplished his purpose with the help of my suspenders) and the situation
clear, I had sense enough left to uncover my head and stand in an attitude of profound reverence
until the procession had passed. I can see them now--the coffin wrapped in a camel's-hair shawl,
the dead man's fez and turban resting on top. Then I replaced my hat and finished the last
of the six minarets of the mosque gleaming like opals in the soft light of the morning.

This act of courtesy, due so little to my own initiative, and so largely to Joe's, gained for
me many friends in and about the mosque--not only those of the dead man, one of whom rowed
a caique, but among the priests who formed the funeral cortege--a fact unknown to me until
Joe imparted it. "Turk-man say you good man, effendi," was the way he put it. "You stoop over
yourselluf humble for their dead."

On another occasion Joe again stood by my side when, with hat off and with body in a half kotow,
I sat before the Pasha, who was acting chief of police after that stormy Armenian week--it
was over really in five days.

"Most High Potentate," Joe began, translating my plain Anglo-Saxon "Please, sir," into Eastern
hyperbolics, "I again seek your Excellency's presence to make my obeisance and to crave your
permission to transfer to cheap paper some of the glories of this City of Turquoise and Ivory.
This, if your Highness will deign to remember, is not the first time I have trespassed. Twice
before have I prostrated myself, and twice has your Sublimity granted my request."

"These be troublous times," puffed his Swarthiness through his mustache, his tobacco-stained
fingers meanwhile rolling a cigarette; a dark-skinned, heavily-bearded Oriental, this Pasha,
with an eye that burned holes in you. "You should await a more peaceful season, effendi, for
your art."

"On account of the Armenians, your Excellency?" I ventured to inquire with a smile.

"Yes." This, in translation by Joe, came with a whistling sound, like the escaping steam of
a radiator.

"But why should I fear these disturbers of the peace, your Supreme Highness? The Turk is my
friend, and has been for years. They know me and my pure and unblemished life. They also know
by this time that I have been one of the chosen few among nations who have enjoyed your Highness's
confidence, and to whom you have given protection." Here my spine took the form of a horseshoe
curve--Moorish pattern. "As to these dogs of Armenians" (this last was Joe's, given with a
growl to show his deep detestation of the race--part of his own, if he would but acknowledge
it), "your Excellency will look out for them." He WAS looking out for them at the rate of one
hundred a day and no questions asked or answered so far as the poor fellows were concerned.

At this the distinguished Oriental finished rolling his cigarette, looked at me blandly--it
is astonishing how sweet a smile can overspread the face of a Turk when he is granting you
a favor or signing the death warrant of an infidel--clapped his hands, summoning an attendant
who came in on all fours, and whispered an order in the left ear of the almost prostrate man.
This done, the Pasha rose from his seat, straightened his shoulders (no handsomer men the world
over than these high-class Turks), shook my hand warmly, gave me the Turkish salute--heart,
mouth, and forehead touched with the tips of flying fingers--and bowed me out.

Once through the flat leather curtain that hid the exit door of the Pasha's office, and into
the bare corridor, I led Joe to a corner out of the hearing of the ever-present spy, and, nailing
him to the wall, propounded this query:

"What did the High-Pan-Jam say, Joe?"

Hornstog raised his shoulders level with his ears, fanned out his fingers, crooked his elbows,
and in his best conglomerate answered:

"He say, effendi, that a guard of ein men, Yusuf, his name--I know him--he is in the Secret
Service--oh, we will have no trouble with him--" Here Joe chafed his thumb and forefinger with
the movement of a paying teller counting a roll. "He come every morning to Galata Bridge for
you me. He say, too, if any trouble while you paint I go him--ah, effendi, it is only Joe Hornstog
can do these things. The Pasha, he know me--all good Turk-men know me. Where we paint now,
subito? In the plaza, or in the patio of the Valedee, like last year?"

"Neither. We go first to the Mosque of Suleiman. I want the view through the gate of the court-yard,
with the mosque in the background. Best place is below the cafe. Pick up those traps and come
along."

Thus it was that on this particular summer afternoon Joe and I found ourselves on the shadow
side of a wall up a crooked, break-neck street paved with rocks, each as big as a dress-suit
case, from which I got a full view of the wonderful mosque tossing its splendors into the still
air, its cresting of minarets so much frozen spray against the blue.

The little comedy--or shall I say tragedy?--began a few minutes after I had opened my easel--I
sitting crouched in the shadow, my elbow touching the plastered wall. Only Joe and I were present.
Yusuf, the guard, a skinny, half-fed Turk in fez and European dress, had as usual betaken himself
to the cafe fronting the same sidewalk on which I sat, but half a block away; far enough to
be out of hearing, but near enough to miss my presence should I decamp suddenly without notifying
him. There he drank some fifty cups of coffee, each one the size of a thimble, and smoked as
many cigarettes, their burned stubs locating his seat under the cafe awning as clearly as peanut-shells
mark a boy's at the circus. I, of course, paid for both.

So absorbed was I in my work--the mosque never was so beautiful as on that day--I gave no thought
to the fact that in my eagerness to hide my canvas from the prying sun I had really backed
myself into a small wooden gate, its lintel level with the sidewalk--a dry, dusty, sun-blistered
gate, without lock or hasp on the outside, and evidently long closed. Even then I would not
have noticed it, had not my ears caught the sound of a voice--two voices, in fact--low, gurgling
voices--as if a fountain had just been turned on, spattering the leaves about it. Then my eye
lighted, not only on the gate, but upon a seam or split in the wood, half-way up its height,
showing where a panel was sometimes pushed back, perhaps for surer identification, before the
inside wooden beam would be loosened.

So potent was the spell of the mosque's witchery that the next instant I should have forgotten
both door and panel had not Joe touched the toe of my boot with his own--he was sitting close
to me--and in explanation lifted his eyebrow a hair's breadth, his eyes fixed on the slowly
sliding panel--sliding noiselessly, an inch at a time. Only then did my mind act.

What I saw was first a glow of yellow green, then a mass of blossoms, then a throat, chin and
face, one after another, all veiled in a gossamer thin as a spider's web, and last--and these
I shall never forget--a pair of eyes shining clear below and above the veil, and which gazed
into mine with the same steady, full, unfrightened look one sometimes sees on the face of a
summer moon when it bursts through a rift in the clouds.

"Don't move and don't look," whispered Joe in my ear, a tone in his voice of one who had just
seen a ghost. "Allah! Ekber! Yuleima!"

"Who is she?" I answered, craning my neck to see the closer.

"No speak now--keep still," he mumbled under his breath.

It may have been the gossamer veil shading a rose skin, making pink pearls of the cheeks and
chin and lending its charm to the other features; or it may have been the wonderful eyes that
made me oblivious of Joe's warning, for I did look--looked with all my eyes, and kept on looking.

Men have died for just such eyes. Even now, staid old painter as I am, the very remembrance
of their wondrous size--big as a young doe's and as pleading, their lids fringed by long feathery
lashes that opened and shut with the movement of a tired butterfly--sends little thrills of
delight scampering up and down my spine. Bulbuls, timid gazelles, perfumed narghilehs, anklets
of beaten gold strung with turquoise, tinkling cymbals, tiny turned-up slippers with silk tassels
on their toes--everything that told of the intoxicating life of the East were mirrored in their
unfathomed depths.

Most of these qualities, I am aware, are found in many another pair of lambent, dreamy eyes
half-hidden by the soft folds of a yashmak--eyes which these houris often flash on some poor
devil of a giaour, knowing how safe they are and how slim his chance for further acquaintance.
Strange tales are told of their seductive power and strange disappearances take place because
of them. And yet I saw at a glance that there was nothing of all this in her wondering gaze.
Her eyes, in fact, were fixed neither on Joseph nor on me, nor did they linger for one instant
on the beautiful mosque. It was my canvas that held their gaze. Men and mosques were old stories;
pictures of either as astounding as a glimpse into heaven.

Again Joe bent his head and whispered to me, his glance this time on the mosque, on the hill,
on the cafe, where Yusuf sat sipping his coffee, talking to me all the time out of the corner
of his mouth.

"Remember, effendi, if Yusuf come we go way chabouk. You look at your picture all time--paint--no
look at her. If Yusuf come and catch us it make trouble for her--make trouble for you--make
more trouble for me. A heavy snowfall blanketed shrubs, plants, walls and telegraph poles; close siege
to put sweet Italian capital arremolinábase around the massive columns Doric wooden post house and
hotel, green shutters suspended of the best houses and powdered the angular shapes, rigid
and dark of their routes. The ships of the four main churches in the city, stood sharp line
breaking of the houses and hiding in the low swirl their misshapen towers. Close to the station,
the new Methodist chapel, like a huge locomotive, preceded, as a lifeguard, of the pyramid
steps, seemed to expect that some houses were added to go to a more pleasant place. And the pride
of Genoa, the great Crammer Institute, for girls, dominated the main avenue with its strange
facade of brick and its tall, stately dome. From anywhere in the city, could be seen easily the Crammer
Institute, so that under this view, did not belie his character as a public in which no missing
never a visitor in their step and a pretty face leaning out their windows.

The whistle of the locomotive of the express northernmost of the four,
brought to the station very little of his usual empty crowd.

Only one passenger got out and walked in solo sled to the hotel in Genoa. Then the train ran
indifferent as all express trains, human curiosity, which returned the empty baggage car to
your garage and the station chief closed the door and went into retirement.

The shriek of the locomotive guilty conscience awakened three ladies
of the Institute Crammer at that time were given away in a neighboring
street, the candy store of Mrs. Bridget eating cakes.

The rules of the Institute left extensive development of the physical nature and morals of her
students, in groups were satisfied with the excellent rules of diet, but extrarreglamentarios
feasts were permitted privately with goodies from your provider particular of the people attended
church with exemplary formality, but flirted during the divine office with the gilded youth
of the people in classes and received severe moral instruction and during the holiday devoured
most uplifting novels. The result of this dual education was a strong group of young, bright and
lovely overlooking the infinite Institute credit. Mrs. Bridget although he was owed large sums, he praised
the good humor and youthful beauty of his parishioners and declared that the sight of these
young ladies the rejuvenated, but it is suspected that favors the unscrupulous covert raids those
were.

- Amigas! four, if we do not turn to prayer, give to speak - said rising the highest of these
foolish virgins, girl aquiline nose and settled ways revealing a
clever director roost.

- Do you have books, Adelaide?

Adelaide taught under his raincoat three most holy books do not look.

-
What provisions, Carolina?

Carolina showed a bag of suspicious-looking package.

- Everything
is current.

Girls up.

Put it in the bill - said nodding the hostess, while advancing towards the door .-- I'll pay when
the quarter my power.

- No, Catalina - Carolina said, pulling out his purse, - let me pay my turn.

- Under no circumstances - Catalina said, arching his black eyebrows sovereign, - and I know
you rich relatives in California promptly send you funds, but I will
not allow it.

Come on, girls, go!

When you open the door, a strong gust of wind violently entered the store, which frightened
the gracious Dona Brigida.

- For God's sake, ladies, you should not leave this time! I'd better stop send a message to
the Institute and fix them a nice bed here.

But the last sentence was lost in the chorus of half-drowned screaming girls throwing, holding
hands, jumping in the middle of the storm, and soon were involved in the whirlwind hurricane.

Dusk, and the few hours of that December day, not illuminated the
vivid colors of the setting sun, ended quickly.

The temperature was cold for others and in the air dense whirling
snowflakes.

Inexperience, and especially the vigor of youth, gave resolution
girls, but dared to cross the field for a shortcut to avoid the bends
Mayor Street, and laughter expired on his lips and tears began to
point in Carolina's eyes.

Backward, and to reach the road, were overwhelmed by fatigue.

-
Let us go back - said Carolina.

- It would be possible as we go through
the field again - said Adelaide.

- Let's stop, then, in the first
house - said that.

- The first house - Adelaide said, peering through
the darkness rising, - is the squire Robinson - Carolina said and
started to look picaresque that even in their concern and fear did
that her cheeks were dyed with carmine.

- That's right!

Yes - Catalina said ironically - of course, let's stop at the home of Squire, and invited us
to dinner, and then we will drive home your dear friend Henry, formal apology from Mr. Robinson,
praying that this time we pardon.

No - continued Catalina with sudden energy, - that can you please yourself, but as I've come
back, by the window, or I stay at this place.

And suddenly dropped on Carolina, who was crying on a pile of snow, and shook strength.

- Then sleep. Chito! Streets! What is that?

You could hear the bells a few collars and darkness was coming towards
them a sleigh with a single conductor.

- Let's hide, girls: if someone
who knows us, we are lost.

Fortunately, it was not, and before they could put into effect his
thought, a voice unknown to their ears, but kind and pleasant timbre,
asked if he could be helpful in something.

It was a beautiful man in a sealskin coat, his head covered a cap to the body, and his face
partially covered by a scarf too fur could be seen only a few long whiskers and two black eyes
vivid.

- A son of the old St. Nicholas - Adelaide said quietly.

The girls, natural voice chatting, lying on the sled, regained their previous tranquility.

-
Where are you going to take? - Peacefully said the unknown subject.

There were, including rapidly consulted, and finally, Catalina said
with determination:

- Al Crammer Institute.

Quietly climbed the hill to the long, ascetic building was pointed
out to them.

The stranger suddenly dropped the reins and asked:

- Where do you go? You know the way better than me.

- The rear window - Catalina said with sudden and startling candor.

- I understand! - Guide replied the stranger calmly.

And when he dismounted, removed the bells sound horses.

- Now we
can approach as much as you want - added by way of explanation.

-
Certainly a son of St. Nicholas - said softly Adelaide - could not
ask news of his father?

- Silence! - Catalina said with decision,
- it may be an angel.

And with delightful inconsistency perfectly understood by his female audience, he continued:

- We made three visions.

Cautiously jumped the fence and finally stopped a few feet away from
a dark wall.

The stranger ayudolas to alight.

The confused and dim light of sunset shimmered in snow, and as the guide had beautiful hands with
his companions, each of these was subjected to a thorough examination,
but respectful.

Clothed in the most serious ayudolas to open the window, then retire quietly to the sled until
he finished the difficult and if access is not broken inside. He then returned to the window.

- Thank you, good night - girls murmured at a time.

One of the three figures was still in the window, and the stranger leaned over the railing.

-
Let me turn here this cigarette, as the light of phosphorus out there might call attention?

With the help of this light could see Catalina nicely framed in the
window.

Consumiose the match slowly between his fingers, and a mischievous
smile appeared on the lips of Catalina.

The astute young man had understood so poor subterfuge. What he had to assert, then, be first
of its kind, and what not, parents have paid the tuition for three
consecutive years?

The next day the storm had ceased, and the sun shining and cheerful
living room study, when Catherine of Corlear, which had its place
beside the window, She took pathetically hand on his heart and fell
on the shoulder of his neighbor Carolina, simulating a sudden fading.

-
You are here - sighed.

- Who? - Said Carolina forward, never clearly
understood that when Catalina formal speaking.

- Who?

For the man who saved us last night! I see him just now reaching
the door.

Calla: in a moment I'll be better.

And pathetically hypocritical passed his hand across his forehead
with a tragic manner.

- What do you want? - Carolina asked with ever
increasing curiosity.

- Ask him - he said .-- Catherine casually
may give the school their five daughters.

May want to improve the education of his wife and put on guard against us.

- Well, girl, do not look old, and fewer married - Adelaide replied
doctrinally.

- Poor girl!

That means nothing! - Catalina skeptical answered .-- Can not a never
say anything about these men ... They are so fake!

Besides, I always I have such bad luck.

- Well ... Catalina! - Began Carolina.

- Silence! The lady is going to say something - Catalina said with a smile.

- The boarders will do the favor of paying attention - a voice said quietly indolent .-- In
the parlor asking for Miss Carolina Galba.

Don Juan Prince, name stamped on the card and in various letters and credentials submitted the
Rev. Mr. Crammer, paced impatiently about the severe room officially designated with the reception
hall name, and privately among females with that of purgatory. With this scrutiny examining the
hard details of the room, from the polished furnace steam like a huge soda-cracker coating, which
heated one end of the fourth to the monumental bust of Dr. Crammer, who shudder at the other,
from the Paternoster drawn by a former teacher of calligraphy, with such a variety of stylish
features writing, which greatly diminished the value of the composition, three views population,
taken from the natural from the Institute, professor of drawing, and that nobody had been able to recognize,
from two events illustrated the Old Testament, written in letters English, so horribly remote
froze all human interest, to a large photograph of the upper class, in which the prettiest
girls were the color Ethiopic, sitting, apparently, some heads and shoulders above the others.
Mechanically flipped through the pages school catalogs, the sermons
of Dr. Crammer, the Poems of Henry Kirke White, the Legends of the
Sanctuary and Lives of celebrated women, his vivid imagination and
nervously heightened for their particular situation, it represented
the tender and touching farewell meetings that should have taken place
there, and that the room extrañose not keep something that could expressing
such human feelings, and even had almost forgotten the object of his
visit when opened the door to make way for Carolina Galba.

The visitor's face he had glimpsed the night before, seemed even more beautiful what had seemed then,
however, was as confused or discontent, though he could not expect to find such a beautiful creature.
Retained its abundant and wavy metallic gold hair dye before, its color, strange delicacy like
a flower and his eyes, chestnut color of seaweed in deep water.

It was, therefore, its beauty that he was disappointed.

Carolina was, in turn, as violent, though not as impressionable as he is. To I did have one of these
men who qualify in terms of sex nice bums, this is correct in all superficial fashion accessories,
clothing, gestures and nice figure. However, there was in him a unique distinction, not like
anyone she could remember, and often the originality so often scare
people and attract them, not he was biased in his favor.

- I can
only hope - began in friendly tone, - I remember you.

Eleven years ago was a little girl. Maybe not even be able to claim on my behalf to have enjoyed
of familiarity that could exist between a six year old girl and a boy of twenty. I which was not
very fond of children. However, I knew very well to his mother because when she led him to San
Francisco I was editor of The Avalanche in Fiddletown.

- You mean my stepmother, and you know it was not my mother - brought to Carolina vividness.

-
I meant his stepmother - she said .-- I've never seriously had the
pleasure of meeting her your mother.

- No, twelve years ago that
Mom has not been in California.

The tone of that title and distinction that set was so intended, they
began to interest Prince, after he had recovered from his first surprise.

-
Perfectly, but now that I come on behalf of his stepmother - continued
smiling, - I have to ask you for a few moments again that starting
point.

His mother, saying, his stepmother, acknowledged that his mother, the first Galba, was legally
and morally your guardian, and but in spite of their inclinations
and affections, placed again under the tutelage of the former.

-
My stepmother remarried before reaching the month of the death of
my father, and sent me home - Carolina said, raising his head slightly
and with great intent.

Mr. Prince smiled so sweetly, and apparently with much sympathy, which began to like Carolina.
No answer to the interruption, continued:

- After this act of simple justice, they stood under her mother and
stepmother to meet the costs of their education until they comply
eighteen years, at which time you must choose which of the two must
henceforth be his.

I think that at the time was told you all that and so has recognition of that agreement.

So, I was only a child - said Carolina.

- Certainly - "said Mr. Prince, with the same smile .-- But I think that the conditions never
been annoying to you or your mother, and perhaps only time will cause
some concern will be when it comes to deciding on the choice of his
mentor, which will be to meet ten and eight years ... I think the
20 th of current month.

Carolina remained silent.

- Believed to be sorry I came here for his decision, even if it is
done now.

Tan I have come to express only his stepmother, Mrs. Ponce, will
be in town tomorrow and spend a few days there.

 If what he had heard was true she was in or
near Damascus. Here would he go. If, after searching every nook and cranny, he failed to find
her, he would return and carry out his sovereign's commands and marry the princess--a woman
he had never laid his eyes on and who might be as ugly as sin and as misshapen as Yuleima was
beautiful. It was while engaged in this fruitless search that he met Joseph, to whom he had
poured out his heart (so Joe assured me, with his hand on his shirt-front), hoping to enlist
his sympathies and thus gain his assistance.

All this time the heartbroken girl, rudely awakened from her dream of bliss, was a prisoner
in the deserted house next the mosque. As the dreary months went by her skin regained its pinkness
and her beautiful hair its golden tint,--walnut shells and cosmetics not being found in the
private toilet of the priests and their companions. When the summer came a greater privilege
was given her. She could never speak to any one and no one could speak to her--even the priests
knew this--but a gate opening into the high-walled garden was left unlocked now and then by
one of the kind-hearted Mohammedans, and often she would wander as far as the end of the wall
overlooking the Mosque of Suleiman, her attendant always with her--a black woman appointed
by Chief-of-Police Selim, and responsible for her safety, and who would pay forfeit with her
head if Yuleima escaped.

"And you think now, effendi," concluded Joe, as he drained his last cup of coffee (Hornstog's
limit was twenty cups at intervals of three minutes each), "that Joe be big damn fool to put
his foots in this--what you call--steel trap? No, no, we keep away. To-morrow, don't it, we
take Yusuf and go Scutari? One beautiful fountain at Scutari like you never see!"

"But can't her father help?" I asked, ignoring his suggestion. His caution did not interest
me. It was the imprisoned girl and her suffering that occupied my thoughts.

"Yes, perhaps, but not yet. I somethings hear one day from the gardener who live with her father,
but maybe it all lie. He say Serim come and say--" Again Joe chafed his thumb and forefinger,
after the manner of the paying teller. "Maybe ten thousand piastres--maybe twenty. Her father
would pay, of course, only the Sultan might not like--then worse trouble--nothing will be done
anyhow until the wedding is over. Then, perhaps, some time."

I did not go to Scutari the next day. I opened my easel in the patio of the Pigeon Mosque and
started in to paint the plaza with Cleopatra's Needle in the distance. This would occupy the
morning. In the afternoon I would finish my sketch of Suleiman. Should Joe have a fresh attack
of ague he could join Yusuf at the cafe and forget it in the thimbleful that cheers but does
not inebriate.

With the setting up of my tripod and umbrella and the opening of my color-box a crowd began
to gather--market people, fruit-sellers, peddlers, scribes, and soldiers. Then a shrill voice
rang out from one of the minarets calling the people to prayer. A group of priests now joined
the throng about me watched me for a moment, consulted together, and then one of them, an old
man in a silken robe of corn-yellow bound about with a broad sash of baby blue, a majestic
old man, with a certain rhythmic movement about him which was enchanting, laid his hand on
Joseph's shoulder and looking into his eyes, begged him to say to his master that the making
of pictures of any living or dead thing, especially mosques, was contrary to their religion,
and that the effendi must fold his tent.

All this time another priest, an old patriarch with a fez and green turban and Nile-green robe
overlaid with another of rose-pink, was scrutinizing my face. Then the corn-yellow fellow and
the rose-pink patriarch put their heads together, consulted for a moment, made me a low bow,
performed the flying-fingers act, and floated off toward the mosque.

"You no go 'way, effendi," explained Joe. "The priest in green turban say he remember you;
he say you holy man who bow yourselluf humble when dead man go by. No stop paint."

The protests of the priests, followed by their consultation and quiet withdrawal, packed the
crowd the closer. One young man in citizen's dress and fez stood on the edge of the throng
trying to understand the cause of the excitement.

Joe, who was sitting by me assisting with the water-cup, gazed into the intruder's face a moment,
then closed upon my arm with a grip as if he'd break it.

"Allah! Mahmoud Bey!" he whispered. "Yuleima's prince. That's him with the smooth face."

The next instant the young man stood by my side.

"The people are only curious, monsieur," he said in French. "If they disturb you I will have
them sent away. So few painters come--you are the first I have seen in many years. If it will
not annoy you, I'd like to watch you a while."

"Annoy me, my dear sir!" I was on my feet now, hat in hand. (If he had been my long-lost brother,
stolen by the Indians or left on a desert island to starve--or any or all of those picturesque
and dramatic things--I could not have been more glad to see him. I fairly hugged myself--it
seemed too good to be true.) "I will be more than delighted if you will take my dragoman's
stool. Get up, Joe, and give--"

The request had already been forestalled. Joe was not only up, but was bowing with the regularity
and precision of the arms of a windmill, his fingers, with every rise, fluttering between his
shirt-stud and his eyebrows. On his second upsweep the young prince got a view of his face--then
his hand went out.

"Why, it is Hornstog! We know each other. We met in Damascus. You could not, monsieur, find
a better dragoman in all Constantinople."

Only three pairs of eyes now followed the movements of my brush, the crowd having fallen back
out of respect for the young man's rank, Yusuf having communicated that fact to those who had
not recognized him.

When the light changed--and it changed unusually early that morning, about two hours ahead
of time (I helped)--I said to the prince:

"It may interest you to see me finish a sketch in color. Come with me as far as Suleiman. We
can sit quite out of the sun up a little back street under a wall, and away from everybody.
I began the drawing yesterday. See!" and I uncovered the canvas.

"Ah, Suleimanyeh! The most beautiful of all our mosques. Yes, certainly I'll go."

Joe dug his knuckles into my thigh, under pretence of steadying himself--he was squatting beside
me like a frog, helping with the water-cups--and gasped: "No; don't take him--please, effendi!
No--no--"

I brushed Joe aside and continued: "We can send for coffee and spend the afternoon. I'll have
some chairs brought from the cafe. Pick up everything, Joe, and come along."

On the way to the crooked, break-neck street my thoughts went racing through my head. On one
side, perhaps, a tap on the shoulder in the middle of the night; half a yard of catgut in the
hands of a Bashi-Bazouk; an appeal to our consul, with the consciousness of having meddled
with something that did not concern me. On the other a pair of tear-stained, pleading eyes.
Not my eyes--not the eyes of anybody that I knew--but the kind that raise the devil even in
the heart of a staid old painter like myself.

Joe followed, with downcast gaze. He, too, was scheming. He could not protest before the prince,
nor before Yusuf. That would imply previous knowledge of the danger lurking in the vicinity
of the old wall. His was the devil and the deep sea. Not to tell the prince of Yuleima's whereabouts,
after their combined search for her, and the fees the prince had paid him, would be as cruel
as it was disloyal. To assist in Mahmoud's finding her would bring down upon his own head--if
it was still on his shoulders--the wrath of the chief of police, as well as the power behind him.

Once under the shadow of the wall, the trap unpacked, easel and umbrella up, and water-bottle
filled, Joe started his windmill, paused at the third kotow, looked me straight in the eye,
and, with a tone in his voice, as if he had at last come to some conclusion, made this request:

"I have no eat breakfast, effendi--very hungry--you please permit Joe go cafe with Yusuf--we
stay ONE hour, no more. Then I bring coffee. You see me when I come--I bring the coffee myselluf."

He could not have pleased me more. How to get rid of them both was what had been bothering me.

I painted on, both of us backed into the low gate with the sliding panel, my eyes on the mosque,
my ears open for the slightest sound. We talked of the wonderful architecture of the East,
of the taper of the minarets, of the grace and dignity of the priests, of the social life of
the people, I leading and he following, until I had brought the conversation down to the question:

"And when you young men decide to marry are you free to choose, as we Europeans are?" I was
feeling about, wondering how much of his confidence he would give me.

"No; that's why, sometimes, I wish I was like one of the white gulls that fly over the water."

"I don't understand."

"I would be out at sea with my mate--that's what I mean."

"Have you a mate?"

"I had. She is lost."

"Dead?"

"Worse."

I kept at work. White clouds sailed over the mosque; a flurry of pigeons swept by; the air
blew fresh. With the exception of my companion and myself the street was deserted. I dared
not go any further in my inquiries. If I betrayed any more interest or previous knowledge he
might think I was in league against him.

"The girl, then, suffers equally with the man?" I said, tightening one of the legs of my easel.

"More. He can keep his body clean; she must often barter hers in exchange for her life. A woman
doesn't count much in Turkey. This is one of the things we young men who have seen something
of the outside world--I lived a year in Paris--will improve when we get the power," and his
eyes flashed.

"And yet it is dangerous to help one of them to escape, is it not?"

"Yes."

The hour was nearly up. Joe, I knew, had fixed it, consulting his watch and comparing it with
mine so that I might know the coast was clear during that brief period should anything happen.

"I was tempted to help one yesterday," I answered. "I saw a woman's face that has haunted me
ever since. She may not have been in trouble, but she looked so." Then quietly, and as if it
was only one of the many incidents that cross a painter's path, I described in minute detail
the gate, the sliding panel, the veiled face and wondrous eyes, the approach of the officer,
the smothered cry of terror, the black finger and thumb that reached out, and the noiseless
closing of the panel. What I omitted was all reference to Joe or his knowledge of the girl.

Mahmoud was staring into my eyes now.

"Where was this?"

"Just behind you. Lift your head--that seam marks the sliding panel. She may come again when
she sees the top of my umbrella over the wall. Listen! That's her step. She has some one with
her--crouch down close. There's only room for her head. You may see her then without her attendant
knowing you are here. Quick! she is sliding the panel!"

Outside of Paris, overlooking the Seine, high up on a hill, stands the Bellevue--a restaurant
known to half the world. Sweeping down from the perfectly appointed tables lining the rail
of the broad piazza; skimming the tree-tops, the plain below, the twisting river, rose-gold
in the twilight, the dots of parks and villas, the eye is lost in the distant city and the
haze beyond--the whole a-twinkle with myriads of electric lights.

There, one night, from my seat against the opposite wall (I was dining alone), I was amusing
myself watching a table being set with more than usual care; some rich American, perhaps, with
the world in a sling, or some young Russian running the gauntlet of the dressing-rooms. Staid
old painters like myself take an interest in these things. They serve to fill his note-book,
and sometimes help to keep him young.

When I looked again the waiter was drawing out a chair for a woman with her back to me. In
the half-light, her figure, in silhouette against the cluster of candles lighting the table,
I could see that she was young and, from the way she took her seat, wonderfully graceful. Opposite
her, drawing out his own chair, stood a young man in evening dress, his head outlined against
the low, twilight sky. It was Mahmoud!

I sprang from my seat and walked straight toward them. There came a low cry of joy, and then
four outstretched arms--two of them tight-locked about my neck.

"Tell me," I asked, when we had seated ourselves, Yuleima's hands still clinging to mine. "After
I left you that last night in the garden, was the boat where we hid it?"

"Yes."

"Who rowed you to the steamer?"

"My old caique-ji."

"And who got the tickets and passports?"

"Hornstog."

LORETTA OF THE SHIPYARDS

I

For centuries the painters of Venice have seized and made their own the objects they loved
most in this wondrous City by the Sea. Canaletto, ignoring every other beautiful thing, laid
hold of quays backed by lines of palaces bordering the Grand Canal, dotted with queer gondolas
rowed by gondoliers, in queerer hoods of red or black, depending on the guild to which they
belonged. Turner stamped his ownership on sunset skies, silver dawns, illuminations, fetes,
and once in a while on a sweep down the canal past the Salute, its dome a huge incandescent
pearl. Ziem tied up to the long wall and water steps of the Public Garden, aflame with sails
of red and gold: he is still there--was the last I heard of him, octogenarian as he is. Rico
tacks his card to garden walls splashed with the cool shadows of rose-pink oleanders dropping
their blossoms into white and green ripples, melting into blue. As for me--I have laid hands
on a canal--the Rio Giuseppe--all of it--from the beginning of the red wall where the sailors
land, along its crookednesses to the side entrance of the Public Garden, and so past the rookeries
to the lagoon, where the tower of Castello is ready to topple into the sea.

Not much of a canal--not much of a painting ground really, to the masters who have gone before
and are still at work, but a truly lovable, lovely, and most enchanting possession to me their
humble disciple. Once you get into it you never want to get out, and, once out, you are miserable
until you get back again. On one side stretches a row of rookeries--a maze of hanging clothes,
fish-nets, balconies hooded by awnings and topped by nondescript chimneys of all sizes and
patterns, with here and there a dab of vermilion and light red, the whole brilliant against
a china-blue sky. On the other runs the long brick wall of the garden,--soggy, begrimed; streaked
with moss and lichen in bands of black-green and yellow ochre, over which mass and sway the
great sycamores that Ziem loves, their lower branches interwoven with zinnober cedars gleaming
in spots where the prying sun drips gold.

Only wide enough for a barca and two gondolas to pass--this canal of mine. Only deep enough
to let a wine barge through; so narrow you must go all the way back to the lagoon if you would
turn your gondola; so short you can row through it in five minutes; every inch of its water
surface part of everything about it, so clear are the reflections; full of moods, whims, and
fancies, this wave space--one moment in a broad laugh coquetting with a bit of blue sky peeping
from behind a cloud, its cheeks dimpled with sly undercurrents, the next swept by flurries
of little winds, soft as the breath of a child on a mirror; then, when aroused by a passing
boat, breaking out into ribbons of color--swirls of twisted doorways, flags, awnings, flower-laden
balconies, black-shawled Venetian beauties all upside down, interwoven with strips of turquoise
sky and green waters--a bewildering, intoxicating jumble of tatters and tangles, maddening
in detail, brilliant in color, harmonious in tone: the whole scintillating with a picturesqueness
beyond the ken or brush of any painter living or dead.

On summer days--none other for me in Venice (the other fellow can have it in winter)--everybody
living in the rookeries camps out on the quay, the women sitting in groups stringing beads,
the men flat on the pavement mending their nets. On its edge, hanging over the water, reaching
down, holding on by a foot or an arm to the iron rail, are massed the children--millions of
children--I never counted them, but still I say millions of children. This has gone on since
I first staked out my claim--was a part of the inducement, in fact, that decided me to move
in and take possession--boats, children, still water, and rookeries being the ingredients from
which I concoct color combinations that some misguided people take home and say they feel better
for.

If you ask me for how many years I have been sole owner of this stretch of water I must refer
you to Loretta, who had lived just five summers when my big gondolier, Luigi, pulled her dripping
wet from the canal, and who had lived eleven more--sixteen, in all--when what I have to tell
you happened.

And yet, Loretta's little mishap, now I come to think of it, does not go back far enough. My
claim was really staked out before she was born (I am still in possession--that is--I was last
year, and hope to be this), and her becoming part of its record is but the sticking of two
pins along a chart,--the first marking her entrance at five and the second her exit at sixteen.
All the other years of my occupation--those before her coming and since her going--were, of
course, full of the kind of joy that comes to a painter, but these eleven years--well, these
had all of this joy and then, too, they had--Loretta.

I was in the bow of the gondola when the first of these two pins found its place on the chart,
working away like mad, trying to get the exact shadow tones on a sun-flecked wall. Luigi was
aft, fast asleep, his elbow under his head: I never object, for then he doesn't shake the boat.
Suddenly from out the hum of the children's voices there came a scream vibrant with terror.
Then a splash! Then the gondola swayed as if a barca had bumped it, and the next thing I knew
Luigi's body made a curve through the air, struck the water, with an enormous souse, and up
came Loretta, her plump, wet little body resting as easily on Luigi's hand, as a tray rests
on a waiter's. Another sweep with his free arm, and he passed me the dripping child and clambered
up beside her. The whole affair had not occupied two minutes.

That was a great day for me!

Heretofore I had been looked upon as a squatter: possessing certain rights, of course, and
more or less welcome because of sundry lire expended for the temporary use of fishing boats
with sails up,--but still an interloper. Now I became one of the thousand families and the
million children. These were all in evidence in less than ten seconds; the peculiar quality
of that scream had done it; not only from the top story of the highest rookery did they swarm,
but from every near-by campo, and way back to the shipyards.

Luigi pushed the gondola to the quay and I lifted out the water-soaked, blue-lipped little
tot, her hair flattened against her cheeks (she was laughing now,--"It was nothing," she said,
"my foot slipped,") and placed her in the hands of the longest-armed fishwife; and then Luigi
disappeared into a door, level with the quay, from which he reappeared ten minutes later in
a suit of dry clothes, the property of a fisherman, and of so grotesque a fit, the trousers
reaching to his knees and the cuffs of the coat to his elbows, that he set the population in
a roar. My Luigi, you might as well know, is six feet and an inch, with the torso of a Greek
god and a face that is twin to Colleone's, and, furthermore, is quite as distinguished looking
as that gentleman on horseback, even if he does wear a straw hat instead of a copper helmet.
After this Loretta became part of my establishment, especially at luncheon time, Luigi hunting
her up and bringing her aboard in his arms, she clinging to his grizzled, sunburned neck. Often
she would spend the rest of the day watching me paint.

All I knew of her antecedents and life outside of these visits was what Luigi told me. She
was born, he said, in the shipyards, and at the moment lived in the top of the rookery nearest
the bridge. She had an only sister, who was ten years older; the mother was the wife of a crab
fisherman who had died some years before; the two children and mother were cared for by a brother
crab fisherman. His son Francesco, if report were true, was to marry the sister when she turned
fifteen, Francesco being four years older. This last reference to Francesco came with a shake
of the head and a certain expression in Luigi's eyes which told me at once that his opinion
of the prospective groom was not for publication--a way he has when he dislikes somebody and
is too polite to express it.

"Fishes for crabs, like his father?" I asked.

"Yes, crabs and young girls," he answered with a frown. "A poor lot, these crab catchers, Signore.
Was it the charcoal or a brush you wanted?"

Francesco did not interest me,--nor did the grownup sister; nor the mother, over whom Luigi
also shrugged his shoulders. It was Loretta's chubbiness that delighted my soul.

Even at five she was a delightful little body, and full of entrancing possibilities. One can
always tell what the blossom will be from the bud. In her case, all the essentials of beauty
were in evidence: dark, lustrous velvety eyes; dazzling teeth--not one missing; jet-black hair--and
such a wealth of it, almost to her shoulders; a slender figure, small hands and feet; neat,
well-turned ankles and wrists, and rounded plump arms above the elbows.

"What do you intend to do, little one, when you grow up?" I asked her one morning. She was
sitting beside me, her eyes following every movement of my brush.

"Oh, what everybody does. This unique
Morfeo exception was Sofia, fifteen years old and who performed the design his mother's immaculate,
clean, orderly, calm and relaxed intelligence.

Mrs. Morfeo had the weakness to imagine loving that Sofia was a comfort and an example to Melissa,
and following this sophistry, Mrs Sophie pulled Morfeo to the case of Melissa, when it was bad, presenting
the child as a model reverent moments of contrition. So the teacher was not surprised when
he learned that Sophie would go to school obviously only as a favor to the teacher and as an
example to Melissa and all learners since Sofia was already a lady, as they say. As heir to the
physical qualities his mother, and in obedience to the laws of the region's weather-Red Mountain,
girl went into premature bloom. Smith's youth-Pocket, for whom this kind Flower was little,
sighed for her in April, May and languished all year dreaming. Serious little men roamed the
school start time and even some were jealous Sangley Mac.

Perhaps this latter circumstance was that he opened his eyes to a comment. Not was difficult
to see that Sophie was romantic, that the class needed a lot of attention, which their feathers
were always bad and needed to be cut, usually accompanying the appeal with some ecstasy in his
eyes, which bore no relation to the service requested verbally; sometimes tolerate the curves of
her plump, white arm turning repose on teacher when I was writing samples, and when that did
blushed and threw back the curls of flaxen hair. I do not remember if I said that the teacher
I was young, thing, anyway, of little importance. Educated at school severely that Sofia gave
their first lessons, yet resisted as a handsome young Spartan the flexible curves and fascinating
looks, whose asceticism may have contributed exiguity taking food. Usually avoided in Sofia, but one
afternoon when she returned to school for something he had forgotten and did not find until the
teacher walked home with her, perhaps tried to be particularly pleasant, partly, I imagine,
add behavior to ice and bitterness to the already overflowing hearts of Platonic Fans of Sofia.

The
next morning this sentimental episode, Melissa did not go to school. Noon arrived, but not Melissa.
Sofia questioned on the matter, said he had gone to school together, but the willful Melissa had
taken another path.

In the afternoon the same mystery and when the night was the teacher Mrs. Morpheus, whose motherly
heart was really start. Mrs. Morfeo had spent all day searching and found no trace that could assist
the discovery of the fugitive. Aristides was named as an alleged accomplice, but this honest
boy managed to convince the family of his spotless innocence. Mrs. Morfeo fed the earnest hope
that the girl would find even drowned in a ditch, or that was almost as terrible, muddy, stained
and without hope that through soap and water back to its original state. The teacher returned
to school in the heart grieved. When you turn on your lamp and sit on the desk, found before
it a note, addressed to him. Took her in his hands quickly, and soon Melissa recognize handwriting.
Seemed written on a leaf torn from an old notebook, and the effect of preventing any indiscretion
sacrilegious, was closed with six broken wafers. Opening it almost tenderly, the teacher read following:

"Honorable
Sir: As you read this, I will have fled, never to return. Never, never, never! Can you give my
beads to Mary Jane, and my Pride of America (a chrome defaced a snuff box) to Florinda Flanders.
But I do not give anything to commend Sophia Morpheus. No do it for what I love most. Do you know what
sovereign it is my opinion? Well, this: That is detestable. That is all, and nothing more for
your respectful servant today - Melissa Smith.

"

Having read this strange letter, the teacher was thoughtful, until the moon raised his bright
face above the mountains and lit the path that led to the home school hard way with the comings
and goings of small feet of learners. Then, more satisfied, The letter
was torn to pieces and scattered on the ground small pieces.

The next day, at dawn, rose quickly, the road opened, through the ferns as a palm, and the dense thicket
of pine forest, scaring the rabbit in its burrow and arousing the
protest of some crows grumpy skull, which reportedly had been orgy
the night, and reached the summit where once jungle had found Melissa.

Found there linked the downed pine branches, but the throne was empty. He approached again, and
some looked like a frightened animal, between the crisp Hastened away from tree branches and
corriose up of the extended arms of the fallen monarch, and in reliance on any foliage friend.
The teacher, going to the old seat, found the nest still warm, and looking at the top to the linked
branches, was seen with black eyes Melisa. They looked on hold. Balm was the first to speak.

-
What do you want? - Asked dryly.

The teacher had prepared his battle plan.

- I want some crab apples - said humbly.

- Do not have; go.

Why not ask to Sofia? - And it seemed that she vented Melisa to express
their contempt for extra syllables to the title and some increase
of its tantalizing companion .-- You are very wrong!

- I have hunger,
Melisita.

Since yesterday when I have not eaten lunch.

I'm dead hungry!

And the young man in a state of starvation extraordinary apoyose against the first tree found
ahead.

Melissa's heart was touched.

In the bitter days of his life as a gypsy, had met the feeling that he so cleverly pretending.

Overcome by his heartbroken tone, but not entirely free from suspicion, said:

- Cava under the tree near the roots, and find many, but be careful
to say it.

Melisa had, like mice and squirrels, their hiding places, but of course, the teacher was unable
to find them, probably because the effects of hunger blinded their senses. Melissa began to fret.
Finally, he glanced through the leaves when, in the manner a fairy,
and asked:

- If low and give you some, you promise to stay away?

The teacher nodded.

- So you die if you do!

The teacher accepted resignedly terrible curse.

Melissa slid off the tree, and for a few moments there was no more
than the gum of pine nuts.

- Are you better? - Asked with some interest.

The

teacher, seriously giving thanks, he confessed that he was reviving, and then began to become
he had come. As expected, he had not gone far when she called. He
turned.

She was standing there, pale, with tears in his eyes.

The teacher realized that now was the right time.

Approaching she took both hands, and looking at his wet eyes, insinuating tone told the couple that
serious:

- Melisita, do you remember the first evening I went to see me? I wonder if you could attend my
school, I wanted to learn something and be nicer, and I said ...

- Ven - said the girl quickly.

- What would you say if the teacher came looking for you now and said it was sad without her
little student, and was eager to return with him to teach him to be good?

Melissa dropped her head silently for a few moments. The teacher looked forward to.

Giving huge jumps, a hare ran up close to the couple, and lifting
his brilliant velvety look and front legs, sat and watched.

A busy squirrel slipped through the cracked bark of a pine tree down, and stood there.

- We are waiting, Melisita - the teacher said quietly, and she smiled.

The tops of the trees swayed, moved by the breeze, and a long ray of light opened way between
the linked branches, giving full in the face uncertain, surprising
in a gesture of irresolution.

Suddenly, with his usual lightness grabbed the hand of the master. Stammered few words, barely
perceptible, but the teacher, apart from his forehead the black hair kissed her, and so, holding
hands, out of the moist and fragrant forest canopy for the open road bathed in morning light.

III

Not
so evil in its treatment compared to other students, Melissa still had an attitude offensive
against Sofia. Perhaps the element of jealousy was not out completely in passionate little heart.
Maybe it's just that the round curves and plump silhouette provide more surface area and suitable
for touch. But as such effervescence were under the authority of the teacher, his enmity sometimes
took a new form that is not rebuke left.

Sangley Mac in his first trial the nature of the child could not conceive that he had never
owned a doll. And the teacher, like many other keen observers, was safer in a posteriori reasoning
in a priori. Melisa had wrist but the doll itself was a reproduction in miniature Melissa
herself. By a chance, discovered Mrs. Morfeo the secret of his unwelcome
presence.

As a companion which had been Melisa excursions, had obvious signs of suffering and past adventures.
The weather and the sticky mud of the trenches deleted prematurely its original color. It was
a whole picture of Melissa in past times. His only skirt red, wrinkled, was dirty and ragged,
as had been the girl's. He had never heard Melisa apply to any child term of endearment. Never
taught in the presence of other children. Severely lying in the hollow of a tree near the school,
he was only allowed to exercise during tours of Melissa, who meet for their wrist, as it did
to itself, a severe duty, it knew no luxury of any kind.

It occurred to Mrs. Morfeo, obeying a commendable impulse, bought another doll gave to Melissa.
The girl was seriously curious. Contemplating the teacher one day thought he noticed in their round
rosy cheeks and mild blue eyes, a slight resemblance to Sofia. Then he began to see that Melissa
had also noticed the same thing; of Consequently, when he was alone,
he hit the wax head against the rocks, dragging sometimes with a rope
tied around his neck to get to and from school, and other, sitting
on his desk, his body became a pincushion patient and harmless.

I will not get to discuss if I did that in retaliation for what she considered a new and imaginary
intrusion of the excellence of Sofia, or because they had such an intuition of certain pagan rites,
and delivered to the fetishist ceremonies, imagine that the original wax model of desfallecería
to die later. This would be a difficult problem metaphysics very difficult to solve.

The teacher could not but observe, despite these inconsistencies moral work a quick perception
and strong, healthy own intelligence.

Melissa knew neither hesitation or doubts of childhood. The answers in class were slightly impregnated
of unusual audacity. Of course not foolproof, but his courage and poise to be launched in Honduras
It would not have dared to row the timid swimmers around her, made up for errors discernment.
Children, apparently, in this respect, no better than people older, as long as the little girl's
red hand loomed above the desk to ask to speak, was silent admiration, and the same teacher
was sometimes oppressed by a question of your own criteria and experience.

However,

certain features that at first she entertained and amused his imagination, began to afflict
him, and some serious doubts assailed his conscience. I could not concealed from Melisa was revengeful,
irreverent, and willful, which had only a superior power of its own semi-wild condition, the
power of physical suffering and sacrifice, and another, although not very consistent, attribute
fierce nobility, truth. Melisa was both bold and honest, two things that that character came
to be reduced to one.

He meditated much on this particular teacher and had concluded regular
those who sincerely believe, namely that he was a slave to his own
concerns, when determining the Rev. Mac Sangley visit for advice and
opinion.

Course this decision humiliated his pride, as he and Mac Sangley were not in great harmony.
But the thought of Melisa overcame him, and at night they first met, and such time with pardonable
superstition that mere chance had guided their feet into school, and consciousness rarely
satisfied with the magnanimity of his action, he overcame his antipathy and was seen with the
Reverend.

Mac Sangley was glad of the visit in the extreme. He further noted that the teacher had good countenance,
and expected to see him cured of rheumatism and neuralgia.

He had also molested him with a dull pain from the last interview, but his resignation on his
part and prayer, and silent for a moment, so the teacher could write in his book reports that
he issued a prescription to cure the dull flash, Mr. Mac Sangley ended for information from
the respectable lady Morpheus.

- Ornato and glory of Christianity is such a good lady, and his tender and beautiful family
flourishes - added Rev. - Sofia is well educated, and is so attentive and affectionate.

Good clothes and appeared to affect Sofia qualities to such an extent that extended considerations
about them a good amount of time. The teacher saw himself doubly confusing. On the one hand,
it was a violent contrast to the poor Melissa, in all that praise Sofia, and another, the confidential
tone disliked talking about the eldest of Mrs. Morfeo, so the teacher,
after some futile efforts to say something natural, saw fit to remember
another engagement and left without asking for reports, but in their
further reflection, was unfairly blames the reverend gentleman had
they been non-Mac Sangley attempted.

This repositioning the teacher and the student in close communion
before.

Balm seemed to notice the change in the behavior of the teacher,
forced for some time, and one of his short evening walks, she suddenly
stopping, and climbing on a log tree, looked fixedly at insinuating
and prying eyes.

- Are not you mad? - Said with a questioning shaking
his whole body.

- No.

- "Not bothered?

- No.

- "Not hungry?

(The famine was to Melisa an illness that could attack at any one occasion).

- No.

- "Not thinking about it?

- Who, Melisita?

- In this white
girl.

(It was the latest epithet invented by Melissa, who was very brunette,
to indicate to Sofia, which competed with the whiteness of the snow).

-
No.

- Can I have your word?

(A phrase with which replaced "and were to die" by wise counsel teacher.)

-
Yes.

- And by his sacred honor?

- Yes.

Melisa then kissed him wild, he jumped from the tree and flying away.

In the two or three days after deigned more like children in general, and get more good behavior.

Two
years had passed since the arrival of master-Pocket Smith's as salary
was not large and the prospects for Smith's-Pocket, to eventually
become capital State, did not seem entirely positive, had long meditated
a change of status.

Privately, he had discovered and their intentions to the trustees
of the school, but being At that time few young unblemished moral
character, consented to continue the course until next spring, thus
moving all winter.

Nobody knew his intention but his only friend, a Dr. Duchesne, a
young Cuban physician, known people of Wingdam by Duchesny.

Never communicated to Mrs. Morpheus, or Sophia, or less students
attending their classes.

This reserve was explained by the constitutional antipathy to tangle, especially in the desire
to save the questions and conjectures of curiosity vulgar and never
thought she would do something so far it had been implemented.

He did not like thinking about Melisa. Perhaps a selfish instinct was trying to figure out their
feeling for the girl as foolish, romantic and impractical. He even wanted to convince that their
progress would be greater under the guidance of a teacher's oldest and most rigorous.

Melissa was then eleven years, and then a few more, according to the laws of Red-Mountain,
would a woman. After all, he had done his duty. When Smith died, addressed letters it's relatives
and received replies from a sister of the mother of Melissa, giving thank the master, he expressed
his intention to leave her husband States Atlantic heading to California shortly. The teacher
was founded with this one Light castle in the air, perhaps imagining
Melissa found the house, it was easy to believe a caring and friendly
woman could better guide their capricious nature.

But when the teacher read the letter, Melisa escuchola as one listens to the rain, received
submissively and then with scissors recortola figures representing Sofia, the girl labeled
white, to avoid errors, and planted on the exterior walls of the building.

The summer was ending and had spent the last harvest of the fields to the barn, where the teacher
thought also pick through the ripe fruits examination of the tender minds that had been put
under cultivation and management. So the wise and professional people of-Pocket Smith's gathered
to punish this traditional custom of making the children in violent situation and tormented
as witnesses before the Tribunal. As usual, the boldest and serene were those who managed to
get the win honors and see her forehead crowned with the laurels of victory. The reader can
imagine that Melissa and Sofia reached prominence and shared the public's attention. Melissa,
your clarity natural perception and confidence in itself, Sofia, with the placid appreciation
of him and perfect correctness in all things. The other little ones
were shy and giddy.

As expected, the speed and the clearance of Melissa, captivated and provoked more the unanimous
applause. Melissa's story had unconsciously awakened the liveliest sympathies of a class of individuals
whose athletic forms leaned against the walls and whose beautiful and bearded faces peering
with unusual attention. However, the popularity Melissa sank by an unexpected circumstance.
Sangley Mac had invited himself and enjoyed the pleasant fun to scare the more timid students
with questions more vague and ambiguous, addressed in a serious and impressive tone, Melissa had
been traced to the astronomy, and was pointing out the course of our stained through ball
into space and carried the beat of the music of the spheres describing the interlocking orbits
of the planets, Mac Sangley when he got up and said in her throaty voice:

- Melisa! Are you talking about the revolutions of the earth and the movements sun and I said that
this is done from the foundation, is not it?

Melisa said it dismissively.

- Well, what is this true? - Sangley Mac said, crossing his arms.

- Yes - Melisa said, pressing her lips hard coral.

The beautiful shapes of the rails were more inclined towards the room,
and a holy face Raphael, with blond beard and soft blue eyes, belonging
to the largest rogue mines turned to the girl and said very softly:

-
Be strong, Melisa!

Mac Sangley, who until then had fixed his eyes on Melissa, gave a
deep sigh, fell first to the teacher and children after a look of
pity, and then rested its view of Sofia.

The girl raised her plump white again arm, whose seductive contour
model enhance a bracelet, bright, solid gift from one of its most
humble admirers carrying through the solemnity of the day.

Dead silence reigned.

The round cheeks Sofia were pink and soft, big eyes were very bright and Sophia blue and brought
low cut white chiffon Sophia rested softly on his shoulders white and logs. Sophie looked
at the teacher and the teacher nodded.

Then Sophie said sweet voice:

- Joshua commanded the sun to stop
and obey him!

A low murmur of applause was heard all throughout the school, an expression pintose triumphant
in the face of Sangley, a serious shadow on the teacher, and a comic look disappointment radiated from
the windows. Melisa astronomy and quickly flipped the book closed with noise. And with a groan
of Mac Sangley, murmurs of astonishment erupted in class and a howling from the windows, when
Melissa vented his fist on the desk pink with this groundbreaking event:

- It's a damn fake!

I think not!

IV

The long rainy season and played to completion. Flocks of birds flooded the fields, and spring
showed new life in the swollen buds, and the rushing streams. The pines gave off the smell
fresher.

Azaleas and ceanothus sprouted already prepared for spring his purple
livery.

In the southern slope of Red-Mountain, the long Tang Aconite was
thrown up from his seat and again broad leaves shaking its dark blue
bells in the gentle slope of the peaks.

A soft carpet of green grass, rippled over the grave of Smith brightly enameled gold buttons,
and dotted by foam endless margaritas. The little graveyard had gathered in the past year, new residents
and new mounds rose two by two along the low fence to reach Smith's grave, leaving a space beside
her. Superstition had generally avoided and the site next to Smith expected inhabitant.

Several fixed signs on the walls of people involved, within a short period, represent a celebrated
theater company for a few days a series of skits to roaring with laughter, which pleasantly
alternating with them, give some melodrama and entertainment bulk. Naturally, these ads as a
big movement among the common people and agitation were the subject of much talk among the
students of the school. The teacher had Melisa promised, for whom this kind of pleasure was sacred
and rare, that would, and in the important opening night and Melissa
attended the teacher promptly.

The dominant style of the function was that of the painful mediocrity, the melodrama was not enough bad
to laugh or to shake pretty good spirits. But the master, turning boring to the girl, was surprised
and felt something like shame, noticing the effect unique unfamiliarity sensitive nature. Her
cheeks were tinged with purple each pulse of his little heart beating, her young and passionate
lips opened slightly to give way to ragged breath, her large eyes
grew wide open and arched his eyebrows frequently.

 Two brawny
fishermen were clearing the way to the door. Luigi and I sprang in behind them, and entered
the house.

On the stone floor of the room lay the body of Francesco, his head stretched back, one hand
clutching the bosom of his shirt. Against the wall stood Loretta; not a quiver on her lips;
ghastly white; calm,--the least excited person in the room.

"And you killed him!" I cried.

"Yes,--he thought I came to kiss him--I did, WITH THIS!" and she tossed a knife on the table.

The days that followed were gray days for Luigi and me. All the light and loveliness were gone
from my canal.

They took Loretta to the prison next the Bridge of Sighs and locked her up in one of the mouldy
cells below the water line--dark, dismal pockets where, in the old days, men died of terror.

Vittorio, Luigi, and I met there the next morning. I knew the chief officer, and he had promised
me an interview. Vittorio was crying,--rubbing his knuckles in his eyes,--utterly broken up
and exhausted. He and Luigi had spent the night together. An hour before, the two had stood
at Francesco's bedside in the hospital of San Paulo. Francesco was still alive, and with Father
Garola bending over him had repeated his confession to them both. He was madly in love with
her, he moaned, and had spread the report hoping that Vittorio would cast her off, and, having
no other place to go, Loretta would come back to him. At this Vittorio broke into a rage and
would have strangled the dying man had not the attendant interfered. All this I learned from
Luigi as we waited for the official.

"This is a frightful ending to a happy life--" I began when the officer appeared. "Let them
talk to each other for just a few moments. It can do no harm."

The official shook his head. "It is against orders, Signore, I cannot. He can see her when
she is brought up for examination."

"They will both have lost their senses by that time," I pleaded. "Can't you think of some way?
I have known her from a child. Perhaps an order from headquarters might be of some use." We
were standing, at the time, in a long corridor ending in a door protected by an iron grating.
This led to the underground cells.

The chief fastened his eyes on me for an instant, turned abruptly, called to an attendant,
gave an order in a low voice and, with the words to Vittorio--"You are not to speak to her,
remember," motioned the sobbing man toward the grating. Luigi and I followed.

She came slowly out of the shadows, first the drawn face peering ahead, as if wondering why
she had been sent for, then the white crumpled dress, and then the dark eyes searching the
gloom of the corridor. Vittorio had caught sight of her and was clinging to the grating, his
body shaking, his tears blinding him.

The girl gave a half-smothered cry, darted forward and covered Vittorio's hands with her own.
Some whispered word must have followed, for the old light broke over her face and she would
have cried out for joy had not Luigi cautioned her. For a moment the two stood with fingers
intertwined, their bowed foreheads kept apart by the cold grating. Then the boy, straining
his face between the bars, as if to reach her lips, loosened one hand, took something from
his pocket and slipped it over her finger.

It was her wedding ring.

IV

Summer has faded, the gold of autumn has turned to brown, and the raw, cold winds of winter
have whirled the dead leaves over rookeries, quay, and garden. The boats rock at their tethers
and now and then a sea gull darts through the canal and sweeps on to the lagoon. In the narrow
opening fronting the broad waters lawless waves quarrel and clash, forcing their way among
the frightened ripples of San Giuseppe, ashy gray under the lowering sky.

All these months a girl has clung to an iron grating or has lain on a pallet in one corner
of her cell. Once in a while she presses her lips to a ring on her left hand, her face lighting
up. Sometimes she breaks out into a song, continuing until the keeper checks her.

Then spring comes.

And with it the painter from over the sea.

All the way from Milan as far as Verona, and beyond, there have been nothing but blossoms,--masses
of blossoms,--oleander, peach, and almond.

When the train reaches Mestre and the cool salt air fans his cheek, he can no longer keep his
seat, so eager is he to catch the first glimpse of his beloved city,--now a string of pearls
on the bosom of the lagoon.

Luigi has the painter's hand before his feet can touch the platform.

"Good news, Signore!" he laughs, patting my shoulder. "She is free!"

"Loretta!"

"Yes,--she and Vittorio are back in their garden. Borodini told the whole story to the good
Queen Mother when she came at Easter, and the king pardoned her."

"Pardoned her! And Francesco dead!"

"Dead! No such good luck, Signore,--that brute of a crab-fisher got well!"

A COAT OF RED LEAD

I

My offices are on the top floor of a high building overlooking the East River and the harbor
beyond--not one of those skyscrapers punctured with windows all of the same size, looking from
a distance like huge waffles set up on end--note the water-line of New York the next time you
cross the ferry and see if you don't find the waffles--but an old-fashioned sort of a high
building of twenty years ago--old as the Pyramids now, with a friendly janitor who comes to
me when I send for him instead of my going to his "Office" when he sends for me; friendly elevator
boys who poke their heads from out their iron cages and wait five seconds until I reach them,
and an obliging landlord who lets me use his telephone.

Mawkum, my chief draftsman--when you have only one it is best to label him "Chief" to your
clients; they think the others are off building bridges for foreign governments, or lunching
at Delmonico's with railroad presidents--my chief draftsman, I say, occupies the room opening
into mine. His outlook is a brick wall decorated with windows, behind which can be seen various
clerks poring over huge ledgers, a section of the roof topped with a chimney, and in the blue
perspective the square, squat tower of the Produce Exchange in which hangs a clock. Both of
these connecting rooms open on the same corridor, a convenient arrangement when clients wish
to escape without being seen, or for the concealing of bidders who are getting plans and specifications
for the same tenders, especially when two of them happen to turn up at the same moment.

Mawkum manages this, and with such adroitness that I have often seen clients, under the impression
that the drafting-room was full, sit patiently in my office and take their turn while he quietly
munches his sandwich behind closed panels--an illusion sustained by a loud "Good-morning" from
my chief addressed to the circumambient air, followed by the slamming of the corridor door.
When I remonstrate with Mawkum, insisting that such subterfuges are beneath the dignity of
the office, he contends that they help business, and in proof quotes the old story of the unknown
dentist who compelled a suffering prince to call the next day at noon, claiming that his list
was full, when neither man, woman nor child had been in his chair for over a week--fame and
fortune being his ever after.

When Mawkum gets tired of inspecting the brick wall and the industrious clerks and the face
of the clock, he strolls leisurely into my room, plants himself at my window--this occurs during
one of those calms that so often come to an office between contracts--and spends hours in contemplating
the view.

To me the stretch of sky and water, with its dividing band of roof, tower and wharf, stretching
from the loop of steel--that spider-web of the mighty--to the straight line of the sea, is
a never-ending delight. In the early morning its broken outline is softened by a veil of silver
mist embroidered with puffs of steam; at midday the glare of light flashing from the river's
surface makes silhouettes of the ferry-shuttles threading back and forth weaving the city's
life; at twilight the background of purple is bathed in the glory of the sunset, while at night
myriads of fireflies swarm and settle, tracing in pencillings of fire the plan of the distant town.

Mawkum, being commercially disposed, sees none of these things; his gaze is fixed on the panting
tugs towing chains of canal boats; on the great floats loaded with cars and the stately steamers
slowing down opposite their docks. Today he develops an especial interest.

"That's the Tampico in from Caracas and the Coast," he says, leaning across my desk, his fat
hand resting on my letter file. "She's loaded pretty deep. Hides and tallow, I guess. 'Bout
time we heard from that Moccador Lighthouse, isn't it? Lawton's last letter said we could look
for his friend in a month--about due now. Wish he'd come." And he yawned wearily.

Mawkum's yawn indicated the state of his mind. He had spent the previous three weeks in elaborating
the plans and specifications for a caisson to be used under a bridge pier--our client assuring
him that he had, to use his own words, "a dead sure thing on the award." When the bids were
opened, Mawkum congratulated him on his foresight and offered to attend the funeral in a body,
the client's bid being some thirty per cent too high. Little episodes like this add a touch
of gayety to the hours spent in the top of the high building.

Mawkum's yawn over--it is generally in three sections, but can sometimes be curtailed--I interrupted
hurriedly with:

"What sort of a structure is it?" I knew, but I wanted some other employment for his mouth.

"First order, screw pile, about a hundred and twenty feet high, stuck on a coral reef at the
mouth of the harbor. 'Bout like our Fowey Rocks, off the Florida coast. She's backing in."
His eyes were still on the Tampico, the floes of North River ice hemming her in on all sides.
"Passengers'll be off in an hour. Wonder how they like our climate--little chilly for pajamas."

Here Mawkum strolled into his room and began overhauling the contents of a rack of drawings
piled one on top of the other like cordwood, labelled: "Screw Pile Structures."

The next morning there came a timid knock at Mawkum's door--the knock of a child with matches
to sell, or of one of those dear sisters who collect for the poor. At a second summons, a little
louder than the first, the chief, with an impatient air, slid from the high stool facing his
drawing board, and threw wide the door.

I craned my head and discovered a small, ivory-tinted individual in a Panama hat, duck trousers
and patent-leather shoes. Wrapped about his shrivelled frame, one red-lined end tossed gallantly
over his shoulder, was an enormous Spanish capa. This hid every part of his body from his chin
to the knees of his cotton ducks. From where I sat he looked like a conspirator in the play,
or the assassin who lies in wait up the dark alley. Once inside he wrinkled his shoulders with
the shivering movement of a horse dislocating a fly, dropped the red-lined end of the capa,
removed his Panama and began a series of genuflections which showed me at once that he had
been born among a people who imbibed courtesy with their mother's, or their cocoanut's, milk.

"I am look' for the Grandioso Engineer," said the visitor. "I am Senor Garlicho--" Then a shade
of uncertainty crossed his face: Mawkum was still staring at him. "It is a mistake then, perhaps?
I have a letter from Senor Law-TON. Is it not to the great designer of lighthouse which I speak?"
This came with more bows--one almost to the floor.

The mention of Lawton's name brought Mawkum to his senses. He placed his fat hand on his vest,
crooked his back, and without the slightest allusion to the fact that the original and only
Grandioso occupied the adjoining room, motioned the visitor to a seat and opened the letter.

I thought now it was about time I should assert my rights. Pushing back my chair, I walked
rapidly through my own and Mawkum's room and held out my hand.

"Ah, Senor, I am delighted to meet you," I broke out in Spanish. (Here I had Mawkum--he did
not understand a word.) "We have been expecting you; our mutual friend, Mr. Lawton, has given
me notice of your coming--and how is the Senor and his family?" And in a few minutes we three
were seated at my desk with Mawkum unrolling plans, making sketches on a pad, figuring the
cost of this and that and the other thing; I translating for Mawkum such statements as I thought
he ought to know, thus restoring the discipline and dignity of the office--it never being wise
to have more than one head to a concern.

This partial victory was made complete when his ivory-tinted Excellency loosened his waistcoat,
dived into his inside pocket and, producing a package of letters tied with a string, the envelopes
emblazoned with the arms and seal of the Republic of Moccador, asked if we might be alone.
I immediately answered, both in Spanish and English, that I had no secrets from Senor Mawkum,
but this did not prove satisfactory and so Mawkum, with a wink to me, withdrew.

Mawkum gone, the little man--it is inconceivable how small and withered he was; how yellow,
how spidery in many of his motions, especially with his fingers stained with cigarettes, how
punctilious, how polite, how soft and insinuating his voice, and how treacherous his smile--a
smile that smiled all alone by itself, while the cunning, glittering eyes recorded an entirely
different brain suggestion--Mawkum gone, I say, the little man examined the door to see that
it was tight shut, glanced furtively about the room, resumed his seat, slowly opened the largest
and most flaringly decorated envelope and produced a document signed with a name and titles
that covered half the page. Then he began to talk at the rate of fifty words to the second;
like the rattle of a ticker in a panic: of Alvarez, the saviour of his country--his friend!--his
partner; of the future of Moccador under his wise and beneficent influence, the Lighthouse
being one of the first improvements; of its being given to him to erect because of his loyalty
to the cause, and to the part he had taken in overturning that despot, the Tyrant Paramba,
who had ruled the republic with a rod of iron. Now it was all over--Paramba was living in the
swamps, hunted like a dog. When he was caught--and they expected it every day--he would be
brought to the capital, San Juan, in chains--yes, Senor, in chains--and put to work on the
roads, so that everybody could spit upon him--traitor! Beast, that he was! And there would
be other lighthouses--the whole coast was to be as light as day. Senor Law-TON had said he
could speak with perfect confidence--he was doing so, trusting to the honor of the Grandiose--the
most distinguished--etc., etc. And now--this in a summing-up voice with a slower movement,
about twenty words to the second--would the Grandioso go in as a partner in these ventures?
The income he could assure me would be so fixed that the light dues alone would pay for the
structure in two years--think of it, Senor, in two years--perhaps less!--and forever after
we could both sit down and receive a small fortune, I by the Tampico in drafts signed by his
Excellency, and he in his own hacienda surrounded by the patriots who honored him and the wife
and children he adored.

At mention of the partnership a vague, cloudy expression crossed my face; my companion caught
it, and continued:

Or (again the voice slowed down) I would be paid for the structure on its erection by me on
the reef.

Again my eyes wandered, and again he took the cue:

Or--if that was not satisfactory--he would be willing to pay for the ironwork alone as soon
as it arrived in the harbor of San Juan.

My Spanish is more like an old uniform that is rubbed up for a parade and then put away in
camphor. Much of his talk was therefore lost on me; but the last sentences were as clear as
if they had dropped from the lips of my old teacher, Senor Morales.

Half-rising from my chair, I placed my hand over my shirt-front and thanked his Excellency
for his confidence--really one of the greatest compliments that had ever been paid me in all
my professional career. To be at once the partner of two such distinguished caballeros as General
Alvarez, the saviour of his country, and my distinguished guest, was an honor that few men
could resist, but--BUT--here I picked up a lead pencil and a pad--BUT--the only way I could
permit myself to rob him of his just desserts would be--here I traced a few lines on the pad--would
be--my voice now became impressive--to receive one-third when it was erected in the yard in
Brooklyn, and the balance on delivery of the bills of lading to his agent; payments to be made
by his distinguished Excellency's bankers in New York.

If the modification of terms in any way disappointed the gentleman from San Juan, my closest
observation of his smile and glance failed to detect it. He merely quivered his shoulders--a
sort of plural shrug--rolled his cigarette tighter between his thumb and forefinger, remarked
that the memoranda were entirely satisfactory, and folding the paper slid it carefully into
his pocket; then with a series of salaams that reminded me of a Mohammedan spreading a prayer
rug, and an "A Dios, Senor," the ivory-tinted individual withdrew.

A week later Mawkum, carrying a tin case addressed to his sun-dried Excellency, passed up the
gangplank of the Tampico; this he placed in that gentleman's hands. Inside its soldered top
were the plans and specifications of a First Order Light, to be made of iron, to be properly
packed, and to have three coats of red lead before shipment--together with a cross-section
of foundation to be placed on the reef known as "La Garra de Lobo"--The Claw of the Wolf--outside
the harbor of San Juan--all at the risk of his Supreme Excellency, Senor Tomas Correntes Garlicho,
of the Republic of Moccador, South America--the price of the ironwork to hold good for three
months.

On his return to the office Mawkum took up his position once more at my window, waited until
the Tampico, the case and his Excellency were well on their way to Sandy Hook and started in
on other work. The next day the incident, like so many similar ventures--his racks were full
of just such estimates--was forgotten. If any of the bread thus cast upon the waters came back,
the chief would be glad, and so would the Grandioso; if not, we were both willing to cut a
fresh slice to keep it company.

II

Four months passed. The ice was out of the river; the steam heat had been turned off in the
high building and the two time-worn awnings had been fixed to my windows by the obliging janitor.
The Tampico had come and gone, and had come again. Its arrivals, and departures were, as usual,
always commented upon by Mawkum, generally in connection with "That Bunch of Dried Garlic,"
that being the irreverent way in which he spoke of his ivory-tinted Excellency. Otherwise the
lighthouse, and all that pertained to it, had become ancient history.

One lovely spring morning--one of those warm mornings when every window and door is wide open
to get the breeze from Sandy Hook and beyond--another visitor stepped into Mawkum's room. He
brought no letters of introduction, nor did he confine himself to his mother tongue, although
his nationality was as apparent as that of his predecessor. Neither did he possess a trace
of Garlicho's affability or polish. On the contrary, he conducted himself like a muleteer,
and spoke with the same sort of brutal authority.

And the differences did not stop here. Garlicho was shrivelled and sun-dried. This man was
round and plump--plump as a stuffed olive fished from a jar of oil, and as shiny; dark-skinned,
with a pair of heavy eyebrows that met over a stub of a nose ending in a knob; two keen rat
eyes, a mouth hidden by a lump of a mustache black as tar, and a sagging, flabby chin which
slunk into his collar. Next came a shirt-front soiled and crumpled, and then the rest of him
in a suit of bombazine.

"You designed a lighthouse some months ago for Mr. Garlicho, of San Juan," he blurted out with
hardly an accent. "I arrived this morning by the Tampico. My name is Carlos Onativia." And
he laid a thin, elongated piece of cardboard on Mawkum's desk.

Only the arrival of a South American fresh from the Republic of Moccador, with a spade designed
to dig up a long-buried treasure could have robbed Mawkum of his habitual caution of always
guarding plans and estimates from outsiders--a custom which was really one of the fundamental
laws of the office. The indiscretion was no doubt helped by the discovery that the owner of
the spade spoke English, a fact which freed him at once of all dependence on the superior lingual
attainments possessed by the Grandioso in the adjoining room.

Down came the duplicate blue-prints without a word of protest or any further inquiry, and before
I could reach the inquirer's side and be properly introduced--I did not want to interfere too
abruptly--Mawkum had not only unrolled the elevation and cross-sections, but had handed out
a memorandum showing the estimate of cost.

Onativia acknowledged my presence with a slight bob of his head, loosened the upper button
of his coat, fished up a pair of glasses, stuck them on the knob end of his nose, and began
devouring the plans in a way that showed both of us that it was not the first time he had looked
over a set of blue-prints.

"This estimate is for the ironwork alone," the stranger said, "and is, as you see, good for
three months. The time, as you will note, has expired. Do you now ask for an additional sum,
or will the price stand?" All this in the tone of a Tombs lawyer cross-examining a witness.

Mawkum murmured that, as there had been no advance in the cost of the raw material, the price
would stand.

"Very well. And now, what, in your judgment, should be added for the cost of erection?"

"Can't say," answered Mawkum; "don't know the coast or kind of labor, or the bottom of the
reef--may be coral, may be hard-pan, may be sand. Do YOU know?"

"Yes--the coast is an ugly one, except four months in the year. Site is twelve miles from San
Juan, exposed to the rake of the sea; bottom coral, I understand; labor cheap and good for
nothing, and appliances none--except what can be shipped from here." This came with the air
of one who knew.

I now took charge of the negotiations:

"We have refused to erect the structure or be responsible for it after it leaves our dock.
We told Senor Garlicho so."

Onativia lowered his chin, arched his eyebrows and looked at me over his glasses.

"I don't want you to erect it," he said in a purring tone with a patronizing strain through
it. "I'll do that. What I want to know is what it would cost HERE? That's what I came to New
York to find out."

"Has Senor Garlicho been awarded the contract?" I asked. It was useless to distribute any more
bread upon the waters; certainly not on the ripples washing the shores of Moccador. If there
were any business in sight I could very easily give either one of them an approximate cost;
if there were none the bakery was closed.

"No, Senor Garlicho has NOT been awarded the contract. I am here to keep the affair alive.
If I had thought it necessary I would have brought a certified check with me drawn to your
order, which I would have handed you with my card. The standing of your firm prevented my doing
so. This is business, and I want to get back home as quick as possible. Our coast is a dangerous
one and the loss of life increases every year. Do you want this matter hung up for six weeks
until we can communicate with Mr. Garlicho? Every hour's delay in putting the light on the
Lobo means that many more deaths." As he spoke a peculiar smile struggled from under his black
dab of a mustache, got as far as the base of his nose and there collapsed.

My duty was now clear. Senor Garlicho, for some reason unknown to me, had waited until his
option had expired and had then sent Onativia in his place. This wiped out the past and made
a new deal necessary--one which included the price of erection on the reef, a point which had
not been raised in the former negotiation.

"All right," I said, "you shall have the estimate. What you want is the cost of erecting a
structure like the one here in the plans. Well, if it was to be put on our Florida coast, where
I think the conditions are somewhat similar to those you describe, I would advise you to add
about one hundred thousand dollars to the cost of the ironwork."

"Is that safe?" Again the smile worked itself loose.

"Yes," I replied, "if you don't lose your plant too often by bad weather. We have warnings
of our coast storms and can provide against them. I don't know anything about yours--what are
they like?"

"They come suddenly and without warning," he rejoined; "typhoons, generally, with the tiles
rattling off the roofs and the natives hugging the cocoanut trees." With this he turned to
the plans again. "Better add another twenty thousand--I want to be safe," he said, in a tone
that showed me he had at last made up his mind.

I added it, marking the sum on the memorandum which Mawkum had given him.

"Now, please put that in writing over your signature. I'll call to-morrow at ten for the document.
Good-day."

When he was well down the corridor--we waited really until we heard the down-chug of the elevator--Mawkum
looked at me and gave a low whistle.

"Add another twenty! What do you think is up? That Bunch of Garlic is working some funny business,
or he wouldn't have sent that brigand up here."

I ruminated for a moment, walked to the window and took in the brick wall, the clerks and the
clock tower. By focusing on the road, obeying the interior a pleasant voice, suddenly
reined in their horses and waited respectfully while Tommy jumped out of car by order of the
master.

- The other kills, not the former, Tommy.

The challenged drew his knife again and cut a branch of a high azalea
bush, returned with her to Mrs. Mary.

- Next?

- Adelante.

The North Fork had left mother and Rattlesnake Creek was impassable.

Under a huge expanse of water that reached the base of the mountains
disappeared thick boulders during the summer had indicated the ford
at the intersection of Samson.

The service measures upstream had to stop at the Granger home, the last mail was abandoned
in the tunnel and rider saved his life fighting to grips with the current.

As he watched the Avalanche in the Sierra with some local pride, "an area" as large as the State
of Massachusetts, is under water this time. And at the time saw no show better.

The mud was thick on the mountain road. On the road, galleys or physical force and the ingenuity
of the bumps could tear that had fallen, obstructing the passage, and shots horse behind and
blasphemies were more than anything else bar the way Samson.

In the distance, isolated and inaccessible, soaked, battered by a furious wind and threatened
by the rising waters, Bar Samson, on Christmas Eve 1862, dangled
from Table Mountain bird's nest as the tempest shakes the old triglyphs
of stone entablature.

As night descended on the camp, a few lights shone, the through mist
from the windows of the cabins at both of sides of the road, crossed
at the time by streams disorderly and violent hit by high winds.

Fortunately, most of the neighbors were gathered in the drug store
of Daniel around a red stove in which spitting silently as ostensible
agreement social community, relieving all of any other occupation.

As
the floodwaters had suspended the tasks of mine and the river, long
since time means were exhausted fun at Bar Samson. As to Senor Garlicho, his time has expired; he has not asked for
its renewal, and so far as this deal is concerned he does not count. I am here, as I told you,
to keep the affair alive. I would have come sooner, but I have been away from the city of San
Juan for months. Most of us who have opinions of our own have been away from San Juan--some
for years. San Juan has not been a healthy place for men who believe in Paramba."

"And do you?"

"Absolutely. So do thousands of our citizens."

"You don't seem to agree with Senor Garlicho, then. He thought your former president, Paramba,
a tyrant. As for President Alvarez, he looked upon him as the saviour of his country."

The lips had full play now, the smile of contempt wrinkling up to his eyelids.

"Saviour of his country! Saviour of his pocket! Pardon me; I am not here to discuss the polities
of our people. Is this your estimate?" And he reached over and picked it from my desk. "Ah,
yes: forty thousand dollars for the ironwork; one hundred and twenty thousand for the erection
on the Lobo Reef; one hundred and sixty thousand in all. Thank you." Here he tucked the paper
in his pocket and rose from his seat. "You will hear from me in a month, perhaps earlier. Good-day."
And he waddled out.

The return of the Tampico six weeks later brought another South American consignment. This
was a roll of plans concealed in a tin case--the identical package which Mawkum had handed
the "Bunch of Dried Garlic" months before, together with a document stamped, restamped and
stamped again, containing an order in due form, signed "Carlos Onativia," for a lighthouse
to be erected on the "Garra de Lobo"--this last was in red ink--with shipping directions, etc.,
etc.

With it came the clerk of the bankers (he had the case under his arm), a reputable concern
within a stone's throw of my office, who signed the contract and paid the first instalment.

Then followed the erection of the ironwork in the Brooklyn yard; its inspection by the engineer
appointed by the bankers; its dismemberment and final coat of red lead--each tie-rod and beam
red as sticks of sealing-wax--its delivery, properly bundled and packed, aboard a sailing vessel
bound for San Juan, and the payment of the last instalment.

This closed the transaction, so far as we were concerned.

A year passed--two of them, in fact--during which time no news of any kind reached us of the
lighthouse. Mawkum kept the duplicate blue-print of the elevation tacked on the wall over his
desk to show our clients the wide range of our business, and I would now and then try to translate
the newspapers which Lawton sent by every mail. These would generally refer to the dissatisfaction
felt by many of the Moccadorians over the present government, one editorial, as near as I could
make out, going so far as to hint that a secret movement was on foot to oust the "Usurper"
Alvarez and restore the old government under Paramba. No reference was ever made to the lighthouse.
We knew, of course, that it had arrived, for the freight had been paid: this we learned from
the brokers who shipped it; but whether it was still in storage at San Juan or was flashing
red and white--a credit to Onativia's energy and a godsend to incoming shipping--was still
a mystery.

Mawkum would often laugh whenever Garlicho's or Onativia's name was mentioned, and once in
a while we would discuss the difficulties they must have encountered in the erection of the
structure in the open sea. One part of the transaction we could never understand, and that
was why Garlicho had allowed the matter to lapse if the lighthouse was needed so badly, and
what were his reasons for sending Onativia to renew the negotiations instead of coming himself.

All doubts on this and every other point were set at rest one fine morning by the arrival of
a sunburned gentleman with gray side-whiskers, a man I had not seen for years.

"Why, Lawton!" I cried, grasping his hand. "This is a surprise. Came by the Tampico, did you?
Oh, but I am glad to see you! Here, draw up a chair. But stop--not a word until I ask you some
questions about that lighthouse."

The genial Scotchman broke out into a loud laugh.

"Don't laugh! Listen!" I said to him. "Tell me, why didn't Garlicho go on with the work, and
what do you know about Onativia?"

Lawton leaned back in his chair and closed one eye in merriment.

"Garlicho did not go on with the work, my dear friend, because he was breaking stone in the
streets of San Juan with a ball and chain around his ankle. When Paramba came back to power
he was tried for high treason and condemned to be shot. He saved his neck by turning over the
lighthouse papers to Onativia. As to Carlos Onativia, he is a product of the soil. Started
life as a coolie boss in a copper mine, became manager and owner, built the bridge over the
Quitos River and the railroad up the Andes; is the brightest man in Moccador and the brains
of the Paramba Government. One part of his duty is to keep the people satisfied, and he does
it every single time; another is to divide with Paramba every dollar he makes."

"But the lighthouse!" I interrupted. "Is it up? You must have passed it on your way out of
the harbor."

"Up? Yes, and lighted every night--up in the public garden in San Juan among the palms and
bananas. The people eat ice-cream on the first platform and the band plays Sundays in the balcony
under the boat davits. The people are wild about it--especially the women. It was the last
coat of red lead that did it."

And again the office rang with Lawton's laugh.

MISS MURDOCK,--"SPECIAL"

A row of gas jets hooded by green paper shades lighting a long table at which sit half a dozen
men in their shirt sleeves writing like mad; against the wall other men,--one drawing Easter
lilies, another blocking in the background around a photograph, a third pasting clippings on
sheets of brown paper. Every few minutes a bare-headed boy in a dirty apron, with smudged face
and ink-stained fingers, bounds into the stifling, smoke-laden room, skirts the long table,
dives through a door labelled "City Editor," remains an instant and bounds out again, his hands
filled with long streamers of proof.

In the opening and shutting of the swinging door a round-bodied, round-headed man in his shirt
sleeves comes into view. Covering his forehead, shielding his eyes from the glare of the overhead
gas jet, is a half-moon of green leather held in place by strings tied behind his ears. The
line of shadow caused by this shade makes a blank space about his eyes and brings into relief
his pale, flabby cheeks, hard, straight mouth, and coarse chin. Only when he lifts his head
to give some order, or holds the receiver of the telephone to his ear, can his eyes be exactly
located. Then they shine like a cat's in a cellar,--gray, white, gray again, with a glint of
metallic green,--always the same distance apart, never wavering, never blinking. Overstrung,
overworked, nervous men, working at high pressure, spurred by the merciless lash of passing
minutes, have these eyes. So do cornered beasts fighting for air and space. Eleven-thirty had
just been tolled by the neighboring clock; deliverance would come when the last form of the
morning edition was made up. Until then safety could only be found in constant attack.

Outside the city editor's office, sprawled over a pile of mail sacks, between the long table
and the swinging door, lay Joe Quinn, man-of-all-work,--boy, in fact, for he was but nineteen,
big for his age, with arms and legs like cordwood and a back straight and hard as a plank.
Joe's duty was to keep his eyes peeled, his ears open, and his legs in working order. If a
reporter wanted a fresh pad, a cup of water, or a file of papers, Joe brought them; sometimes
he foraged for sandwiches and beer,--down four pair of stairs, across the street into a cellar
and up again; sometimes he carried messages; oftener he made an elevator of himself, running
between the presses in the basement and the desk behind the swinging door. Fifty trips in a
single night had not been an unusual tally.

To the inmates of the room the boy was known as "Joe" or "Quinn" or "Sonny." To the man with
the half-moon shade over his eyes he was "Say" or "That Damned Kid." High-strung, high-pressure
editors omit the unnecessary, condensation being part of their creed.

Up in the Franconia Notch, in a little hollow under White Face and below Bog Eddy, Joe had
been known as "Jonathan's boy," Jonathan being the name his father went by, the last half never
being used,--there being but one "Jonathan"--the one whom everybody loved.

The cabin was still standing, where Joe was born,--a slant of logs with a stone chimney and
some out-buildings; and his old father was still alive, and so was his mother and his little
"Sis." Summer mornings the smoke would curl straight up from the rude stone chimney, catch
a current of air from the valley, and stretch its blue arms toward the tall hemlocks covering
the slope of the mountain. Winter mornings it lay flat, buffeted by the winds, hiding itself
later on among the trees. Joe knew these hemlocks,--loved them,--had hugged them many a time,
laying his plump, ruddy cheek against the patches of cool moss velveting their sides. "Nothin'
like trees," his old father had told him,--"real human when ye know 'em."

To-night, as he lay stretched out on the mail sacks, his ears unlatched, listening for the
sound of the night city editor's bell, or his gruff "Say, you!" his mind kept reverting to
their bigness and wide, all embracing, protecting arms. A letter from Jonathan received that
morning, and still tucked away in his inside pocket, had revived these memories.

"They've started to cut roads, son," it read. "I was out gummin' yesterday and got up under
White Face. Won't be nothing left if they keep on. Cy Hawkins sold his timber land to them
last winter and they've histed up a biler on wheels and a succular saw, and hev cleared off
purty nigh every tree clean from the big windslash down to the East Branch. It ain't going
into building stuff; they're sending it down to Plymouth to a pulp mill and grinding it up
to print newspapers on, so the head man told me. Guess you know all about it, but it was news
to me. I told him it was a gol-darn-shame to serve a tree so, being as how trees had feelings
same as men, but he laughed and said it warn't none of my bizness, and I guess it ain't. Beats
all what some folks will do for money."

Joe thought so too,--had been thinking so ever since he broke the seal of the letter that the
postmaster at Woodstock had directed for his father. "Dad's right; trees have feelings," he
kept repeating to himself. And, as to being human, he could recall a dozen that he had talked
to and that had talked back to him ever since he could remember. His father had taught him
their language on the long days when he had trailed behind carrying the gum bag or had hidden
in the bushes while the old man wormed himself along, his rifle in the hollow of his arm, or
when the two lay stretched out before their camp fire.

"Dogs and trees, my son, will never go back on ye like some folks I've hearn tell of. Allers
find 'em the same. See that yaller birch over thar?--Well, I've knowed that birch over forty-two
year and he ain't altered a mite, 'cept his clothes ain't as decent as they was, and his shoes
is give out 'round the roots. You kin see whar the bark's busted 'long 'round his toes,--but
his heart's all right and he's alive and peart, too. You'll find him fust tree out in the spring,--sometimes
'fore the sugar sap's done runnin'. Purty soon, if you watch him same's me, ye'll see him begin
to shake all over,--kind o' shivery with some inside fun; then comes the buds and, fust thing
ye know, he gives a little see-saw or two in the warm air and out busts the leaves, and he
a laughin' fit to kill. Maybe the birds ain't glad, and maybe them squirrels that's been snowed
up all winter with their noses out o' that crotch, ain't jes' holdin' their sides, and maybe,
too, them little sunbeams don't like to sneak in and go to sleep on the bark all silvery and
shinin' like the ribbons on Sis's hat! They're human, them trees is, I tell ye, son,--real human!

"And ye want to treat 'em with some perliteness, too they're older'n anything 'round here 'cept
the rocks; and they've been holdin' up the dignity of this valley, too,--kind o' 'sponsible
for things. That's another thing ye mustn't forgit. The fust folks that come travellin' through
this notch--'bout time the Injins quit,--took notice on 'em, I tell ye. That's what they come
for. Bald Top and White Face was all right, but it was the trees that knocked 'em silly. That's
what you kin read in the book school-teacher has, and that's true. And see how they treat their
brothers that git toppled over,--by a windslash, maybe, or lightnin' or a landslide, or some
such cussed thing, givin' 'em a shoulder to lean on same as you would help a cripple. When
they're clean down and done for it ain't more'n a year or two 'fore they got 'em kivered all
over with leaves, and then they git tergether and hev a quiltin' party and purty soon they're
all over blankets o' green moss, and the others jes stand 'round solemn and straight like's
if they was mountin' guard over their graves.

"It's wicked to kill most anything 'less ye got some use--and a good one, too,--for the meat,
but it's a durned sight meaner to cut down a tree that took so long to grow and that's been
so decent all its life, 'less ye can't do without the stuff ye git out'n it."

Joe had listened and had drunk it all in, and his love for the tall giants away back in the
deep wilderness had never left him. It was these dear old friends more than anything else that
had kept him at home, under plea of helping his father, months after he knew he ought to be
up and doing if he would ever be of any use to the old man in his later years.

It was Plymouth first, as stable boy, and then down to Nashua and Boston as teamster and freight
handler, and then, by what he considered at the time a lucky chance--(Katie Murdock, from his
own town, and now a reporter in the same newspaper office with himself, had helped), man of
all work in this whirl where he felt like a fly clinging to a driving wheel.

Stretching out his stout saw-log legs and settling his big shoulders into the soft cushions
made by the sacks, his mind went back to the old sawmill,--Baker's Mill,--and the dam backed
up alongside the East Branch. An old kingfisher used to sit on a limb over the still water
and watch for minnows,--a blue and white fellow with a sharp beak. He had frightened him away
many a time. And there was a hole where two big trout lived. He remembered the willows, too,
and the bunch of logs piled as high as the mill. These would be rolled down and cant-hooked
under its saw when the spring opened, but Baker never ground any one of them up into wood pulp.
It went into clapboards to keep out the cold, and shingles to keep off the rain, and the "waste"
went under the kettles of the neighbors, the light of the jolly flames dancing round the room.
He had carried many a bundle home himself that the old man had sent to Jonathan. Most everybody
sent Jonathan something, especially if they thought he needed it.

Then his mind reverted to his own share in the whirl about him. It wasn't a job he liked, but
there wasn't anything else offering, and then Katie might want somebody to look after her,
and so it was just as well he had the job. He and Katie had been schoolmates together not so
long ago, in the wooden schoolhouse near the crossroads. She had gone to college, and had come
home with a diploma. She was two or three years older than he was, but that didn't make any
difference to a boy and girl from the same village when they had grown up alongside of each
other. He wondered how long it was to July, when he was promised a week,--and so was Katie.
He knew just what they'd do; he could get two passes to Plymouth,--his old friend the freight
boss had promised him that,--then about daylight, the time the train arrived, he'd find Marvin,
who drove the stage up the valley and past his old home, and help him curry his team and hitch
up, and Marvin would give them a ride free. He could feel the fresh air on his cheeks as he
rattled out of the village, across the railroad track and out into the open. Tim Shekles, the
blacksmith, would be at work, and old Mother Crawport would be digging in her garden, early
as it was; and out in the fields the crows would be hunting corn; and pretty soon down would
go the wheels into the soft, clean gravel of the brook that crossed the turnpike and out again
on the other side dripping puddles in the dirt; and soon the big trees would begin, and keep
on and on and on,--away up to the tops of the mountains, the morning sun silvering the mists
sweeping up their sides,--and--

"Say! you! Wake up! He's been hollering at you for five minutes. GIT!"

Joe sat up and rubbed his eyes. The fresh air of the morning had vanished.

"Yes, sir." He was on his feet now, alert as a terrier that had sniffed a rat.

"YES, SIR, eh! How many times do you want me to call you? Go and find Miss Murdock, and send
her here on the run. Tell her to get her hat and cloak and show up in two minutes. I've got
an assignment for her on the East Side,--just come over the 'phone. Hurry now! That damned
kid ought to be--"

But Joe was already out of the room and down two pair of stairs. Before the minutes were up
he was back again, Katie Murdock with him. She was sliding her arm into the sleeve of her jacket
as she entered.

"Forty-third and First Avenue, Miss Murdock," said the night city editor, lifting his head
so that the cat eyes had full play. "Girl overboard from one of the ferry boats,--lives at
117.--Drowned, they say,--some fellow mixed up in it. Take your snapshot along and get everything.
Find the mother if she's got one and--"

But the girl had gone. She knew the value of time,--especially at that hour, even if she had
been but a week in her new department of "Special." Her chief knew it, too, or he wouldn't
have sent her at that hour. There was time--plenty of time if everything went right,--thirty
minutes, perhaps an hour,--to spare, but they were not hers to waste.

"Wait for me, Joe," she said, as she hurried past him. "We'll go up town together, soon as
the presses start." It contained
more than a single line, written in pencil with feminine handwriting.

"Wait for the corral with boghey at three."

Moreno was stirred restlessly and finally woke up.

- James! Are you there?

- Yes.

I beg do not leave yet.

Now dreaming, dreaming of times past, Susan and I got married again
and the priest, James, was ... Do you know who it was?

You!

Melin laughed and sat on the bed, with the paper in the toes.

- Is
it a good sign? - Asked Moreno.

- I think: Say, man, would not it
be better to get up?

Calaveras Moreno rose with the help of the hand that offered Melin.

- I think you smoke.

Moreno took the cigar which mechanically stretched.

- Fire?

James rolled the letter spiral, lit it and offered him his friend.

He remained with her in fingers, until he had consumed, and pulled
out that as the shining star, fell window below.

Followed him by sight and then turned to Moreno.

- My friend - said putting his hands on the shoulders of his friend, - I stand in six minutes on
the road and I fade away as the flame.

Not meet again, but before I leave take the advice of a madman.

Have settled everything and take your wife away from this site.

Not the place for you or for her. Tidings that must go: to compel them to leave, if not you
willingly.

Do not regret not being a Socrates or her an angel. Remember that If you treat her like a
man and a woman. Do not be stupid. Abur.

Desprendiose Moreno's arms and jumped down the stairs like a deer. Once on the block took the
boy asleep in the middle neck and pushed him against the wall.

- Put the saddle my horse instantly, or you ...

The dilemma was terrible and easy to understand.

- The woman said
she hooked boghey for you - stammered the unhappy.

- To hell with
boghey!

The thrush was saddled as fast as the nervous hands of the astonished boy could drive belts
and buckles.

The boy, who, like all his class, admired the thrust of his fiery patron, and really was interested
in their fate could not but ask:

- Is there anything, sir?

- Get out of there!

The waiter turned away shyly. There was a whip and a blasphemy, James kicked the horse and walking and
tended to trot.

A moment later, the sleepy eyes of the young man was only a small cloud shifting dust on the
horizon to where a star, separated from her sisters, leaving a trail bright.

The inhabitants on the banks Wingdam Road, heard at dawn as a vibrant
voice the lark singing over the plain.

Those who slept rough were stirred in their beds to dream of youth,
love and life.

Rough peasants face and eager seekers gold, already at work, ceased their labors and leaned
upon their picks to listen to this romantic adventurer, noting in
light of the rosy dawn, he rode to step Castilian.

CAROLINA

(Episode of Fiddletown)

I

In the town of Fiddletown was regarded worldwide as a beautiful woman. His good figure, highlighted
by a mop of brown hair splendid characterized by a beautiful color and a certain languid grace which
lent him a something interesting and distinguished. Dressed Always taste and Fiddletown was the
rage. He had only two flaws: a its velvety eyes, examined closely, deviating slightly, and
stained his cheek left a small scar caused by a drop of vitriol, a happily single whole bottle that
had cast a jealous rival, with the malicious intent to disfigure Jerne so beautiful. However,
when the observer reached to notice the irregularity of look, it was usually unable to criticize
it and there were some who claimed that the stain on his cheek he added more charm and grace.
The young editor of The Avalanche, of Fiddletown, argued privately that it was a hidden dimple
and Colonel Roberto reminded freckles tempting time of Queen Anne, and especially to one of the
most beautiful damn women and, yes, damn them! they never have been
fixed in human eyes.

Was a native of New Orleans. This woman had a scar, one that crossed seams (a faith that is
true), from the right eye to mouth. And this woman, friend, we penetrated to a ... friend, you
crazy ... actually condemned him with his damn soul fascination. A day I said:

- Celeste, how the hell you did that damn scar? To which I replied:

- Roberto, no more white than you would tell, this scar me I made with all intention, I did
me the same, faith.

These were his own words can you make them for a grand deception, but I can bring all the evidence
that is true.

Fiddletown male population was or had been in love with her mostly. Of this number, as one-third
believed that their love was reciprocated, with the exception of his own husband remained some
doubt about it.

The gentleman who enjoyed this unhappy distinction called Galba. He had divorced of his excellent
wife to marry Fiddletown siren. This also was divorced, but whispering some previous experience of
this legal formality made it less innocent and perhaps more selfish, but it is less concluded that
it lacked tenderness or that he was free of the highest moral sentiment. One of his admirers wrote
to mark the second divorce, "the selfish world still does not understand Clara ', and Col.
Robert noted that, except for a single woman Opeludas Parish, Louisiana, had more soul her that all
the remaining gray female. And in truth, few could read those verses graduates "Infelicissimus"
which began: "Why waves no cypress on this front?" Published first time in The Avalanche,
under the signature of Lady Clara, without feeling his eyelids tremble a tear of poetry anointing.
Blood lit generous indignation at the thought that Next week the News of Dutch Flat, answered
the question with a joke tender poor and brutal, stating that the cypress is an exotic and completely
unknown in the flora of the region.

Precisely this tendency to produce feelings in metrical form, and deliver intelligent world through
the press, was what first attracted the attention of Galba, in those days drove a car with six
mules transport between Knight's Ferry and Stocktown. So, impressed by a poem describing the effect of the
customs of California on a sensitive soul and vague aspirations to infinity of a generous breast
view dismal picture of the Californian company, decided to seek the neglected muse. Galba
believed also felt in his soul the secret vibrations of a higher aspiration that could meet
in the trade of liquor and snuff that provided farmers and miners camps. After a series of events that
this is not the occasion to relate, wine a brief courtship so brief
that it was consistent with the previous legal formalities, the married,
Galba and brought his blushing bride or Fideletown Fiddletown, as
Madame de Galba preferred call in his poems.

They were very happy in the new state. Galba soon discovered that the rosy ideals who conceived while
their mules traginaba between Stocktown and Knight's Ferry, nothing in common had with his
wife who inspired contemplation of the fate of California and his
own spirit.

Perhaps for this reason, the good man, who was not very strong in logic, sticking his wife,
and as she was not very strong in terms of reasoning, let himself be led by same principle to
certain infidelities. Then Galba took to drink and the lady to work
regularly in the columns of The Avalanche.

On this occasion, when Colonel Robert discovered in the poetry of Ms. Galba a resemblance to the
genius of Sappho, and pointed to the citizens of Fiddletown in a critical two-column signed
'AS', which was also published in The Avalanche, supported by extensive quotations from the
classics. Not possessing the Avalanche a collection of characters Greeks, the editor was forced
to play the verses leucádeos in plain Roman with great disgust of Colonel Robert and immense
joy of Fiddletown, who accepted the text as an excellent imitation of Choctaw, Indian language
family that was supposed to colonel as resident in the wild territories. Indeed, the news of the week
following contained some very free verse, in response to the poem
of modern Sappho, which were attributed the wife of a head-red skin,
followed by a brilliant eulogy signed "ASS"

[12]

The consequences of this prank has outlined a future issue of The Avalanche. "Yesterday, said,
there was an unfortunate set against the Eureka room, among the worthy John Flash, the News of
Dutch Flat, and the well-known Colonel Roberto.

Cambiáronse two shots, but contenders would suffer harm, although it says that a Chinese who
was unfortunately passed several buckshot in the calves that came from the double-barreled
shotgun of colonel. So learn John [13] to be, hereinafter, away from firearms. Unaware of the cause
leading to the set, although whispers among those who are supposed
to be better aware that the immediate source of grief, was a well
known and beautiful poetess, whose productions often have graced the
columns of our publication.

"

The passive attitude adopted by Galba in these trying circumstances,
it was noted with all its value in the camps.

- There can be no better
game - said a philosopher of high boots and Herculean arms .-- If
Colonel Flash kills, come to Mrs. Galba, if Colonel Flash tomb, Galba
is avenged in stead.

So with a game that you can not miss.

Delicate situation that was exploited by the lady of Galba to leave the house her husband and
took refuge in the Hotel Fiddletown, with only the clothes they wore.

Remained there a few weeks, during which time, it is fair to acknowledge that he behaved with
the strictest modesty.

A beautiful spring morning, the poet left the hotel and walked down an alley toward the strip
of dark pines that limited Fiddletown. At that early hour scarce transients that ran through the
town, stopped at the other end of the street to see output Wingdam diligence, and Lady Clara reached
the outskirts of the mining camp no one would notice it. There he took a side street running
at right angles with the main street of Fiddletown and penetrating
in the area of ​​pine forest.

Was no certainly the only avenue aristocratic people, the houses were few, presumptuous and uninterrupted
by shops or stores. There she was joined Colonel Roberto.

The gallant Colonel swollen, despite the peaceful demeanor usually distinguished him, his coat
closely girded their tight boots and cane that hung on his arm, swung
jauntily, was not all him.

However, Lady Clara was pleased to welcome with a friendly smile and a dangerous look in his eyes,
and the colonel, with a forced cough and strutting, was placed on the left.

- The road is expedient - .-- Galba said Col. Dutch Flat has gone for a walk, there is in the house
rather than the Chinese and you should not fear trouble of any kind. I - continued a slight dilation
of the breast, which endangered the safety of the buttons of his coat, - I take care to protect
it so that you can recover what is fair.

- You are very good and selfless - stammered the lady as they continued their march .-- It so
nice to find a man of heart, a person with whom to sympathize in
a so hardened and insensitive society like the one we have had in
luck!

...

And Lady Clara looked down, but not before he had produced the usual effect on passenger.

- Indeed, indeed - said the colonel, looking askance restless over
two Shoulders: - yes, really.

Not noticing, then, nobody to see or listen, then proceeded to inform Lady Clear that the greatest
sorrow of his life had been full to possess a soul too big. Countless women, whose name, as
a gentleman, he did not mention clinics, many women had offered his beautiful love, but lacking
in all that quality could not correspond in any way. But when two natures united by sympathy
despise concerns also low and vulgar and conventional restraints of society hypocritical,
when two hearts in perfect harmony meet and mingle in sweet poetic communion ...

But here the colonel's speech, which felt the influence of liquor, is clouded to be unintelligible
and incoherent. May be that Lady Clara had heard in cases like something similar and were therefore
willing to supply the omissions and inconsistencies the mature beau. Anyway, the couple's cheeks
flush the colonel kept Therefore virginal shyness until they both came at the end of their journey.

Represented
the end of the tour but a nice small villa recently bleached and highlighted in nice contrast
on a group of pines, some of whose first rows had been removed to make way for a symmetrical
wall around jardinito. Plated sunlight and in complete silence, had the appearance of new and
vacant, as if it had of carpenters and painters leave.

In the middle of the garden, digging a Chinese imperturbable, but
the house was no other sign of life.

The road, as he said the colonel, was really expeditious and Mrs. Galba stood by the gate. The
colonel had come with her, but he stopped with a gesture.

- Searching again in two hours and I have done my luggage - said holding out his hand and with
a half smile on his lips.

Estrechola Asiola Colonel and enthusiastically. Perhaps the pressure was slightly reciprocated
as the gallant colonel away cupping her breast and triumphant passage, as vigorous as permitting
the narrowness and high heels of her boots.

When he was away conveniently Lady Clara opened the door, listened for a moment from the empty
input, and then rose the ladder quickly, up to his old room.

The appearance of the room had not changed since the night of his
escape.

His hat, above the vanity, as he recalled having left to take his
hat on the chimney a glove I had forgotten in her flight, the two
bottom drawers of the dresser parted (no care of closing) and pin
the chest and a dirty fist resting on the marble the table.

I do not know what other memories occurred to him, but suddenly turned pale, trembled and listened
with a beating heart and hand in the door, he approached the mirror,
and between shy and curious, he separated the strands of blond hair,
his rosy ear, discovering an ugly wound licked it yet.

Contemplola long time, raised her head indignantly, and diversion
of their velvet eyes deepened.

Then he turned, and laughed, carefree and determined ran to the closet where hung her beautiful
clothes, and the inspected with visible excitement.

Suddenly, he saw that was missing from its usual hanger a black silk,
and felt faint, but found out a moment later, lying on a suitcase,
where she had thrown herself.

For the first time, grateful to be dismayed top protects troubled.

Then, even when time pressed, could not resist tempted to try the mirror the effect of a lavender-colored
ribbon on the jacket he wore at the time. Suddenly he heard a voice
beside him children, and stopped nervous.

The voice repeated:

- Mom! Mom!

Ms. Galba turned suddenly.

Jumping on the door was a girl of six to seven years.

His dress, elegant in its heyday, was torn and dirty, and hair despeluznado
and a deep red, was a lively comic touch on his head.

Yet Thus, the girl was cute. A certain air of confidence that often characterizes children who were
thought long abandoned, was breaking through his childhood shyness. Underarm brought a doll made
of rags, apparently self-made, and almost as big as she, a cylindrical
head doll features crudely drawn.

A long shawl that visibly belonged to an older person fell from his
shoulders sweeping parquet.

This unexpected visit did not please the lady of Galba. The girl, still standing in the doorway,
asked again:

- Is it Mom?

Then answered dryly:

- No, not mom.

And took a hard look at arrapiazo.

The girl backed away and then getting the distance value, said in
his speech Feature:

- Go, then.

"Poker is not your clams?

Galba Mrs. leered shawl.

Suddenly, he ran to pull it from the shoulders the girl, and said angrily:

- Who sent you to take my things, shameless?

- Yours? So, you're my mom! Right? You're mama! - Continued child joy.

And before the Lady Clara could have been avoided, had already left wrist down, and grabbing
skirts with both hands, began to dance before her unparalleled nonchalance.

- What is your name? - Lady Clara said coldly, pulling off his clothes and not too small child's
hands clean.

- Tarolina.

- Tarolina?

- Ci ... Tarolina.

- Carolina?

- Ci ... Tarolina.

- "Who are you? - Even more coldly asked to stifle a nascent fear.

- Wow! I'm your girl - the child said smiling .-- You are my mother, my new mom. Do not zabez, zabez
not my other mom is gone and not coming back? I no longer live with my other mom. Now I have
to live with Dad and you.

- "How long have you been here? - Moody asked Lady Clara.

- I think
three days ago - Carolina answered after a pause.

- Do you agree?
Not sure? - Lady Clara said sarcastically .-- Well, where did you
come?

Carolina's eyes began to blink on this lively discussion. With
great effort suppressed her tears, held back a sob and said:

- Dad
... Dad brought me home ... Miss Simmons Sacramento, last week.

-
What! You just said three days ago - said it severely.

- I meant
a month - then said Carolina, completely lost in his confusion and
ignorance.

- Do not know what you're fishing - loudly exclaimed Lady
Clara, resisting the impulse to shake the little figure before him
and precipitating the truth by means of a purely material.

The blonde
head suddenly disappeared in the folds of the dress of Madame de Galba
as efforts to extinguish the color of her cheeks burned.

- Stop your
whining - Lady Clara said her dress fighting the wet kisses girl and
end up feeling upset .-- Come, enjúgate face, go and be comfortable.
Listen - continued when he left Carolina .-- Where is your dad?

-
Also has game ... He is sick ... He left ... (Here he hesitated) for
two or three days.

- Who cares for you, girl? - Lady Clara said staring
at her.

- John, Chinese. I vizto Zola, John makes the food and arranged
the beds.

- Go, then, behave yourself and do not bother me anymore
- Lady Clara said remembering the reason for visit .-- Wait, where
are you going? - said while the girl, dragging behind him a long wrist
gripped by the leg, was preparing to climb the ladder.

- I'm going
up to play and be good and do not annoy mom.

- I'm not your mom!
- Shouted the aforementioned, and then quickly returned to her bedroom
and slammed the door.

Continuing preparations, took the fourth wardrobe
a big trunk and began packing their anger and rage baggage quickly.
Tore her best dress to remove the peg and twice the soft hands were
scratched with hidden pins, while mentally commented outraged that
the incident occurred. Ah! then I understood everything. Her husband
was premeditated brought this child from his first wife, this child
whose existence has never seemed to care for insult, to take his place.
Undoubtedly, the first woman in person would soon there, or maybe
have a third woman with red hair, not brown but red. Naturally, the
girl, Caroline, looked like his mother, and so I would be anything
but pretty. Perhaps the entanglement was prepared in advance, perhaps
he was this girl with red hair, like her mother, in Sacramento, at
a convenient distance, and ready to bring it whenever appropriate.
He then recalled the frequent trips due, as he said, to businesses.
Perhaps the mother was also there, but no, he had gone to the East.
However, in its current state of mind, preferred to rest on the idea
that there was. She felt a vague satisfaction in exaggerating mood.
Surely that had never been abused as a scandalous manner women. Concluded
the picture of your misfortune. He lay alone and abandoned, to the
sunset falls amid columns of a ruined temple in graceful attitude
even melancholy while her husband was away quickly, a woman with red
hair, strutting beside him in a luxurious carriage drawn by a magnificent
torso. Supported by suitcase just fill, composed of the dismal plan
poem of his misfortune. Abandoned, alone and poorly dressed, we found
with her husband and the other, beaming with silks and jewels. Fancied
himself own consumptive dying because of their grief, but still beautiful
and fascinating to ruin their glances rearward to the Director of
the Avalanche and Colonel Roberto, who watched with effusive passion
... "But where I was, meanwhile, Colonel Roberto? 'You know what's good in New York.'

"So I ordered.

"And I want to tell you that the dinner was a particularly good one--well cooked and well served.
We had soup and fish and an Italian ragout, macaroni, peppers and two bottles of red wine.
Before the soup was over I was glad I'd come; glad, not only because the dinner was all right,
but because the people were human kind of people--no foolishness about them--no pretension.
They were not our kind of people, of course--couldn't find them in New York if you looked everywhere--not
born and brought up here. The Woman was gentle and kindly, saying very little, but the Large
Man was a hearty, breezy sort of fellow--even if his language at times was rough and uncouth--at
least I thought so. Big bones and a well-fed body; quick in his movements, yet slow in his
talk, showing force and determination in everything he said. The Small Man was as tough physically
and as alert mentally, but there wasn't so much of him. He talked, however, twice as fast as
the Large Man, and said less.

"He talked of the city--how smart the people were, how stuck up some of them, thinking they
knew it all, and how, if they but thought about it, they must see after all that the West was
the only thing that kept the country alive. That kind of talk--not in an offensive way--just
as all of us talk when we believe in our section of the country.

"All this time the solitary guest sat against the wall listening. Near as I could make out
he only had one dish and a small bottle of wine. Presently he made a remark--not to us--not
to the room--more as if to himself.

"'West is the only thing, is it? And every man Jack of them from New England stock!'

"This, too, didn't come in any offensive spirit--just as an aside, as if to keep himself company,
being lonely, of course.

"But the Large Man caught it before all the words were out of his mouth.

"'Dead right, pard,' he said--I only quote his words, gentlemen. 'My father came from Boston,
left there in '58. Where're you from?'

"'Boston,' answered the man looking at him over the prongs of his fork.

"'That so? Well, why ain't you eatin' your turkey with your folks? Got any?'

"'Yes, got a lot of them, but I was short of a ticket.'

"Here the Large Man got up and went over to the Man from Boston.

"'Shake for Boston,' he said, holding out his big hand. 'And now bring that bottle over here
and chip in with us.' Then he opened his pocketbook and took out a square slip of paper.

"'Here, tuck that in your clothes.' Again I must remark, gentlemen, that I am only quoting
their language so that you can get a better idea of what sort of people I was with. 'That's
a pass to your 'burg. I'm going South and I won't use it.'

"There were five of us at the table now, the Bostonian bringing over his plate without a word
except 'Thank you,' and taking his share of the different dishes.

"The talk now became very interesting. The Large Man told stories of his early life on a farm
and the Bostonian recited verses, and recited them very well, and the Woman laughed in the
right place, and when the cigars were brought and the coffee and the cognac, I was sorry it
was all over. That, when I look back upon it, is the most extraordinary thing of all. How a
man of my experience could have--Well, I won't stop, I'll just keep on.

"With the coffee, and before the red-headed Irishman had brought the bill--oh, you should go
round to Foscari's and look at that Irishman just to see how coarse and vulgar a man can be
who spends his whole life feeding animals who--no I WILL go on, for the most interesting part
is to come. When the coffee was served, I say, the Large Man asked the waiter where he could
send a telephone message to his hotel--wanted the porter to get his trunks down. The Irishman
answered: 'Out in the hall, to the right o' where ye come in.' 'I'll go with you,' said the
Woman; so the two got up and I opened the door for her, and we three sat down again--that is,
the Small Man, the Bostonian and myself.

"We talked on, not noticing the time; then the Small Man looked at his watch, jumped up and
called out to the waiter: 'Where did you say that telephone place was?'

"'In the hall--on the other side of that dure; ye kin see it from where ye're sittin'.'

"'Well, he's taking a devil of a time to do his telephoning' said the Small Man. 'Hold on to
my coffee till I go and punch him up.'

"The Bostonian and I kept on talking. He was a draughtsman in an architect's office, so he
told me, and was promised a place the following week, and I was very much interested in what
he told me of his walking the streets looking for work.

"Mike, the waiter, now laid the bill on the table. I didn't want to know the amount; my hosts
wouldn't want me to see it, of course, and so I didn't look at it. The Bostonian craned his
head, but I forestalled his glance and turned a plate over it before he could read the total.

"Mike now approached.

"'Ye'd better pay now,' he said, 'before any more o' ye skip. It's nine dollars and sixty cints.'

"'They'll all be back in a minute,' I said. 'Wait till they come. I'm only an invited guest.'

"'I'll wait nothin'. The boss is out and I'm in charge. H'ist out yer money.'

"The Bostonian had risen from the table now and was looking at me as if I'd just been detected
in picking his pocket.

"'But I'm an invited guest,' I protested.

"'Invited guest, are ye?' continued the Irishman. 'And ye ordered the grub yersilf! You heard
him!' This to the Bostonian. 'Didn't he order the stuff? Let's see yer wad. No more o' ye's
goin' to l'ave this room 'till I gits nine dollars and sixty cints. Here, Macaroni'--and he
called the Italian--'ring up the station-house and till thim to sind somebody 'round. Ye can't
play that game on me!"

"'My dear fellow,' I said--I had now to be as courteous as I could--'I don't want to play anything
on you. You may be right in your views that these people have served me a scurvy trick, but
I don't believe it.'

"'Well, thin, pull yer wad out, or I'll call the perlice.'

"'Don't do anything of the kind,' I urged. 'My name is Peter Griggs and I live quite near here.
Lived there for twenty years. You can find out all about me from any of the neighbors; I haven't
enough money with me, but I'll go to my room and get it.'

"'No ye don't; none o' that guff for me!' You can't think how coarse he was. Then he walked
deliberately over to the door and stood with his back against it.

"The Bostonian now joined in.

"'It looks as if you had been buncoed, my friend,' he said. 'It's an old dodge, this, of getting
somebody to pay for your dinner, especially on holidays, and yet I can't see how anybody would
pick you out as a greenhorn. I'd divide the bill with you, but really, as you know, I haven't
the money.' I saw from his tone that he was thinking better of me.

"'No, I'll pay it myself. You, certainly, were not to blame. Will you go to my room with me,
Mike?' I called him Mike because it seemed the best way to conciliate the man.

"'How far is it?' he asked, softening a little.

"'Two blocks.'

"'And ye'll pay if I go?'

"'Of course I will pay. Do I look like a man who would cheat you?'

"'All right, come on.'

"I bade the Bostonian good-by, and we started.

"Mike didn't speak a word on the way, nor did I. I felt like a suspected thief that a policeman
was taking to the station-house; I've passed them many times in the street, and I've often
wondered what was passing in the thief's mind. I knew now. I knew, too, what the Bostonian
thought of me, and the Italian, and Mike.

"Then a shiver went through me, and the next moment I broke out into a cold sweat. I suddenly
remembered that I hadn't any money in my room. I had given every cent, except two dollars of
the amount I had brought uptown with me, to my washerwoman the night before. The bill was not
due, but Mrs. Jones wanted it for Thanksgiving and so I let her have it. And yet, gentlemen--would
you believe it!--I walked on, trying to think if there mightn't be some bills in the vest I'd
worn the day before, or in the top drawer of my desk or in a china cup on the mantel. Really,
it was an awful, awful position! I couldn't run! I couldn't explain. I just had to keep on.

"When I got here I turned up the light and asked him to sit down while I searched my clothes--you
can see what disgrace does for a man--asked a common, low, vulgar waiter to sit down in my
room. He didn't sit down--he just kept walking round and round, peering into the bookcases,
handling the little things on the mantel, feeling the quality of the curtain that hangs there
at the door--like a pawnbroker making up an inventory.

"Finally he said: 'Ye got a nice place here'--the first words that had come from his lips since
we left the restaurant. 'The boss likes these jimcracks; he's got a lot o' thim up where he
lives. I seen him pay twinty dollars to a Jew-dago for one o' THIM.' And he pointed to my row
of miniatures.

"By this time I was face to face with the awful truth. There was nothing in the vest-pocket,
nor in the cup, and there was nothing in the drawer. The only money I had was the two-dollar
bill which had been left over after paying Mrs. Jones. I spread it out before him and looked
him straight in the eye--fearlessly--that he might know I wasn't telling him an untruth.

"'My good man,' I said in my kindest voice, 'I was mistaken. I find I have no money. I have
paid away every cent except these two dollars; take this bill and let me come in to-morrow
and pay the balance.'

"'Good man be damned!' he said. 'I don't want yer two dollars. I'll take this and call it square.'
Then he put my precious Cosway in his pocket and without another word walked out of the room."

"But wouldn't they give it back to you when you went for it?" I blurted out.

Peter leaned back in his chair and drummed on the arm with his fingers.

"To tell the truth, I have been ashamed to go. I suppose they will give it back when I ask
them. And every day I intended going and paying them the money, and every day I shun the street
as if a plague was there. I will go some time, but not now. Please don't ask me."

"Have you seen none of them since?" inquired another of his visitors.

"Only the Bostonian. He walked up to me while I was having my lunch in Nassau Street yesterday.

"'I came out better than you did,' he said. 'The pass was good. I used it the next day. Just
home from the Hub.'"

"Accomplice, maybe," remarked Peter's third visitor, "just fooling you with that architect yarn."

"Buncoed that pass out of somebody else," suggested the second visitor.

"Perhaps," Peter continued. "I give it up. It's one of the things that can never be explained.
The Bostonian was polite, but he still thinks me a cheat. He let me down as easy as he could,
being a gentleman, but I can never forget that he saw me come in with them and order the dinner,
and that then I tried to sneak out of paying for it. Oh, it's dreadful! Dreadful!"

Peter settled in his seat until only the top of his red skull cap showed above the back of
his easy chair. For some minutes he did not speak, then he said slowly, and as if talking to
himself:

"Mean, mean people to serve me so!"

Some days later I again knocked at Peter's door. I had determined, with or without his consent,
to go myself to Foscari's, redeem the miniature and explain the circumstances, and let them
know exactly who Peter was. My hand had hardly touched the panel when his cheery voice rang out:

"Whoever you are, come in!"

He had sprung from his chair now and had advanced to greet me.

"Oh, is it you! So glad--come over here before you get your coat off. Look!"

"The Cosway! You paid the bill and redeemed it?"

"Didn't cost me a cent."

"They sent it to you, then, and apologized?"

"Nothing of the kind. Give me your hat and coat and plump yourself down on that chair by the
fire. I've got the most extraordinary story to tell you you've ever heard in your whole life."

He was himself again--the same bubbling spirit, the same warmth in his manner, foxes out frolicking,
lighthouse flashing, everything let loose.

"Last night I was sitting here at my desk writing, about nine o'clock, as near as I can remember"--his
voice dropped now to a tragic whisper, as if an encounter with a burglar was to follow--"WHEN-I-HEARD-A-HEAVY-TREAD-ON-THE-STAIRS,
getting louder and louder as it reached my door. Then came a knock strong enough to crack the
panels. I got up at once and turned the knob. In the corridor stood the Large Man. He was inside
before I could stop him--I couldn't have stopped him. You have no idea, my dear friend, how
big and strong that man is. What he expected to see I don't know, but it evidently was not
what he found.

"'I had a hell of a time finding you,' he began, looking about him in astonishment. 'Been up
and down everywhere inquiring. Only got your number from that red-headed plate-shover half
an hour ago.'"

Peter's voice had now regained its customary volume:

"I had backed to the fireplace by this time and had picked up the poker, as if to punch the
fire, but I really intended to strike him if he advanced too close or tried to help himself
to any of my things. He never took the slightest notice of my movements, or waited for any
answer to his outburst--just kept right on talking.

"'You were so dead easy there warn't no fun in it. I dropped to that the first time you opened
your head, but Sam had picked you out and it had to go at that. My wife saw his mistake as
soon as she got her eyes on you, but Sam, like a fool, wouldn't listen. He was to do the picking,
and so I couldn't say a word. When we all got outside, clear, we took a turn around Washington
Square so I could have my laugh out on Sam, and when we got back you were gone and so was the
fellow from Boston who chipped in, and so was that red-headed Irish waiter. That knocked us
silly--wife gave us rats, and I felt like a yellow dog. Been a-feeling so ever since. The Dago
couldn't or wouldn't understand. Said we'd better come in when the boss was there. We had to
take the eleven o'clock to Boston that night and had only time to catch the train. When I got
back at six-ten to-night I drove to Foscari's, found the Irishman and the boss, heard how he'd
pulled your leg--paid the bill--$9.60, wasn't it?--that's what he said it was, anyhow--and
here's your picture!'

"I had dropped the poker now and was motioning him to a chair.

"'No, thank you, I won't sit down; ain't got time. Got to take the eleven forty-five for Chicago.
Well, we had a lot of fun out of it, anyhow, only I didn't intend it should end up the way
it did. Just wanted to get even with Sam and win my bet.'

"'Bet? I asked. I was still in the dark as to what he meant.

"'Yes--bet Sam I'd bunco any New York man he'd pick out, and you happened to be the one. You
see, wife and I and Sam were here for a few days and we struck Thanksgiving and wanted some
fun, and we HAD it. You're white, old man all the way through--white as cotton and our kind--never
flunked once, or turned a hair. Sally took an awful shine to you. Shake! Next time I'm in New
York I'll look you up and if you ever come out our way we'll open a keg o' nails, and make
it red-hot for you, and don't you forget it. Here's my card, so you can remember.'"

Peter picked up the card from the table, threw up his chin, and broke into one of his infectious
laughs. I reached over and took it from his hand. It bore this inscription:

  J. C. MURPHY
  General Travelling Agent
  C. S. & Q. R. R.

  OGDEN, UTAH

MISS JENNINGS'S COMPANION

The big Liner slowed down and dropped anchor inside the Breakwater. Sweeping toward her, pushing
the white foam in long lines from her bow, her flag of black smoke trailing behind, came the
company's tender--out from Cherbourg with passengers.

Under the big Liner's upper deck, along its top rail, was strung a row of heads watching the
tender's approach--old heads--young heads--middle-aged heads--Miss Jennings's among these last--their
eyes taking in the grim Breakwater with its beacon light, the frowning casemates specked with
sentinels, and the line of the distant city blurred with masts and spent steam. They saw, too,
from their height (they could look down the tender's smokestack) the sturdy figure of her Captain,
his white cap in relief against the green sea, and below him the flat mass of people, their
upturned faces so many pats of color on a dark canvas.

With the hauling taut and making fast of the fore and aft hawsers, a group of sailors broke
away from the flat mass and began tugging at the gangplank, lifting it into position, the boatswain's
orders ringing clear. Another group stripped off the tarpaulins from the piles of luggage,
and a third--the gangplank in place--swarmed about the heaps of trunks, shouldering the separate
pieces as ants shoulder grains of sand, then scurrying toward the tender's rail, where other
ants reached down and relieved them of their loads.

The mass of people below now took on the shape of a funnel, its spout resting on the edge of
the gangplank, from out which poured a steady stream of people up and over the Liner's side.

Two decks below where Miss Jennings and her fellow-travellers were leaning over the steamer's
rail craning their necks, other sights came into view. Here not only the funnel-shaped mass
could be seen, but the faces of the individuals composing it, as well as their nationality
and class; whether first, second or steerage. There, too, was the line of stewards reaching
out with open hands, relieving the passengers of their small belongings; here too stood the
First Officer in white gloves and gold lace bowing to those he knew and smiling at others;
and here too was a smooth-shaven, closely-knit young man in dark clothes and derby hat, who
had taken up his position just behind the First Officer, and whose steady steel gray eyes followed
the movements of each and every one of the passengers from the moment their feet touched the
gangplank until they had disappeared in charge of the stewards.

These passengers made a motley group: first came a stout American with two pretty daughters;
then a young Frenchman and his valet; then a Sister of Charity draped in black, her close-fitting,
white, starched cap and broad white collar framing her face, one hand clutching the rope rail
as she stepped feebly toward the steamer, the other grasping a bandbox, her only luggage; next
wriggled some college boys in twos and threes, and then the rest of the hurrying mass, followed
close by a herd of emigrants crowding and stumbling like sheep, the men with pillow-case bundles
over their backs, the women with babies muffled in shawls.

When the last passenger was aboard, the closely-knit young man with the steel gray eyes leaned
forward and said in a low voice to the First Officer:

"He's not in this bunch."

"Sure?"

"Yes--dead sure."

"Where will you look for him now, Hobson?" continued the officer.

"Paris, maybe. I told the Chief we wouldn't get anywhere on this lead. Well, so long"--and
the closely-knit young man swung himself down the gangplank and disappeared into the cabin
of the tender.

The scenes on the gangplank were now repeated on the steamer. The old travellers, whose hand
luggage had been properly numbered, gave themselves no concern--the stewards would look after
their belongings. The new travellers--the Sister of Charity among them--wandered about asking
questions that for the moment no one had time to answer. She, poor soul, had spent her life
in restful places, and the in-rush of passengers and their proper bestowal seemed to have completely
dazed her.

"Can I help you?" asked the First Officer--everybody is ready to help a Sister, no matter what
his rank or how pressing his duties.

"Yes, please--I want to know where my room is. It is Number 49, so my ticket says."

Here the Purser came up--he, too, would help a Sister.

"Sister Teresa, is it not--from the Convent of the Sacred Heart? Yes, we knew you would get
on at Cherbourg. You are on the lower deck in the same stateroom with Miss Jennings. Steward--take
the Sister to--"

"With whom?" she cried, with a look of blank amazement "But I thought I was alone! They told
me so at the office. Oh, I cannot share my room with anybody. Please let--"

"Yes, but we had to double up. We would willingly give you a room alone, but there isn't an
empty berth on board." He was telling the truth and showed it in his voice.

"But I have the money to pay for a whole room. I would have paid for it at the office in Paris,
but they told me it was not necessary."

"I know, Sister, and I'm very sorry, but it can't be helped now. Steward, take Sister Teresa
to Number 49." This last came as an order, and ended the discussion.

When the Steward pushed open the door Miss Jennings was sitting on the sofa berth reading,
a long gray cloak about her shoulders. She had a quiet, calm face and steady eyes framed in
gold spectacles. She looked to be a woman of fifty who had seen life and understood it.

"The officer says I am to share your room," began Sister Teresa in a trembling voice. "Don't
think me rude, please, but I don't want to share your room. I want to be alone, and so do you.
Can't you help me?"

"But I don't mind it, and you won't after you get used to it." The voice was poised and well
modulated--evidently a woman without nerves--a direct, masterful sort of woman, who looked
you straight in the eyes, was without guile, hated a lie and believed in human nature. "And
we ought to get on together," she continued simply, as if it were a matter of course. "You
are a Sister, and from one of the French institutions--I recognize your dress. I'm a nurse
from the London Hospital. The First Officer told me you had the other berth and I was looking
for you aboard the Cherbourg tender, but I couldn't see you for the smoke, you were so far
below me. We'll get on together, never fear. Which bed will you have--this one or the one curtained
off?"

"Oh, do you take the one curtained off," she answered in a hopeless tone, as if further resistance
was useless. "The sofa is easier perhaps for me, for I always undress in the dark."

"No, turn on the light. It won't wake me--I'm used to sleeping anywhere--sometimes bolt upright
in my chair with my hand on my patient."

"But it is one of the rules of our order to dress and undress in the dark," the Sister pleaded;
"candles are luxuries only used for the sick, and so we do without them."

"All right--just as you say," rejoined Miss Jennings cheerily. "My only desire was to make
you comfortable."

That night at dinner Sister Teresa and Nurse Jennings found themselves seated next to each
other, the Chief Steward, who had special orders from the First Officer to show Miss Jennings
and her companion every courtesy, having conducted them to their seats.

Before the repast was half over, the two had attracted the attention of all about them. 

The old man glanced around the group. Then his face changed gradually.

- It's true - he said after a moment's reflection - is really a kind
of quadruped something has animal can not be denied.

And frowned, as in painful meditation on the ignorance and stupidity
of the unpopular Melin.

- Makes a very sad time, right? - Said, engulfed
by the current general feeling .-- Poor The workers will spend little
money and runs this season ... And tomorrow is Christmas.

There was a movement among the attendees by announcing this, but not clearly transpired whether
it was of satisfaction or disgust.

- Yes - continued the old man in the gloomy tone for the last time
involuntarily take - this is ... I got the idea, do you understand?
that maybe would like to come to my house and spend one Christmas Eve.

Now maybe not like ... Maybe not in readiness? - added with nice application, watching the faces
of his listeners.

- Do not say no - Flavio Thomas said, something more lively .-- Maybe.

But what about your wife, old? How's it going?

The old man hesitated.

All Bar Samson knew that marital experiences had not been happy for him.

His first wife, a delicate and beautiful young woman, had suffered the most lively and jealous
suspicions her husband, until one day he invited to his house to all the Bar for his infidelity
is fully tested.

But the arrival of the departure, found the shy, innocent creature quietly engaged in home duties,
and had to withdraw corridos and embarrassed.

The delicate sensitive not easily recovered from the shock of this
extraordinary outrage.

He struggled to regain the composure to give vent to his lover, a
closet that was hiding and escape with him.

To comfort the husband was left abandoned a three- spring.

The current consort of the old man had been his cook, stout woman, brutal character.

Before I could answer, John Dimas explained in a few words that the house was old, and, invoking
the divine power, if he were at home convidaría whom he pleased, even when doing so would endanger
their salvation. Evil spirits, added further fight in vain against it.

All this said with a dry and vigor lost in this translation required.

- Naturally ... sure ... this is - "the old man also pursing his brow
.-- No nothing special.

It's my house, I myself have raised all their logs.

No need to fear it.

Maybe cry a little, as women do, but will be good.

The old trusted, to himself, in the exaltation of liquor and the power of a brave example to hold
in this situation.

Until then, Federico Bullen, Oracle and head of Bar Samson, not spoken. But took his pipe from
his lips and burst:

- Old, and how your child is Juanito?

I figured something was sick the last time I saw him on the road
throwing stones at the Chinese, and that seemed disinterested greatly.

Yesterday came by a troop of them drowned in the river, and I thought Johnny. Oh! How would
throw less! Maybe hindrance if you are sick?

Visibly affected, not only by this pathetic picture of Johnny's deprivation, but also so circumspect
and delicate, the father rushed to assure him that Johnny was better and perhaps a little joke he would
improve somewhat.

Frederick then got up and desperezose saying

- I'm ready.

Show us the path. Underway.

And with a leap and a yelp characteristic precediolos, leaving outside.

Passing

the home grabbed a lighted stick, an action that others repeated heading, following close, rubbing,
and before that Daniel, the puzzled owner the drugstore, knew the
intention of his guests, the room was completely empty.

The night was darker than pitch.

The makeshift torches were extinguished to first gust of wind and only the red coals ranging
in darkness as fireworks dimly lighted fools the narrow path.

This led them by the above Pine Glen, whose entrance was hidden in
the cost of a wide but low primitive hut with a roof made of reeds
and pine bark.

It was the home while the old entrance of the mine where he worked when he did.

Once there, the support, they stopped a delicate time for deference to the host, which came from
the rear of breath.

- Maybe you did well to wait a second here outside while I go and see if everything is current - the old man
said with an indifference that was far from his mind.

The indication was well accepted, the door opened and closed after
the host, and partners, supporting their backs against the wall, sheltering
under the eaves, waited with an attentive ear.

For some moments there was no sound but the dripping of water from the eaves and branches fighting against the wind
that shook, crackling over their heads.

The guests They began to fidget and whisper instructions and suspicions that passed word of mouth.

-
I suspect that to start me and my neck has broken.

- We will put in the tunnel and there you will sandwich, for sure.

-
We have in the ground and will sit on top.

- Probably something is
boiling echárnoslo; apartémonos the door for what might be.

But at this point the latch creaked, the door slowly opened, and a
voice said:

- Come take cover from the rain.

The voice was not the old one or that of his wife.

It was a childish voice, weak ring whose hoarse unnatural that broke,
which only can give vagrancy and alcohol abuse, premature.

Appeared before them the figure of a child, whose face might have been nice, even distinguished
not darken the inside of the evils and not having learned his seal
printed on dirt and neglect.

Her little body was wrapped in a blanket, and just knew that getting out of bed.

- Enter - repeated - and not make noise. The old man is there talking to mom - indicating continued
an adjacent room that seemed to be a kitchen, from which the old man's voice came in Ringtone for
clemency.

- Let go - said the child and addressing Federico grumbling
that he had grabbed Bullen wrapped in the blanket and pretended to
want to take the fireplace.

- Let me, you damned old fool!

Do you hear?

As well at bay Frederick Bullen, let them fall on the floor, while the men went quietly standing
in the middle of the room and around a long table of rough boards.

Juanito immediately proceeded in with gravity into a closet and pulled out several objects placed on
the table slowly.

- There you have brandy and biscuits, smoked herring and cheese (and
on their way to the table gave a bite to the latter).

And sugar. (He pulled out with a few dirty hand.) There also dried apples in the cupboard,
but I do not collide. Apples swell. Here it all - ended .-- Olvidábame the snuff. Now it without
fear: I ignore the old woman finally said and done, there is nothing I Well, then!

And he retreated to the doorway of a small room, scarcely larger than a closet, separate main
room by a partition and had a small bed in his small dark room.

He paused a moment standing there looking at the company's bare feet
sticking out below the blanket, and fired by a slight movement.

-
Listen Juanito!

Going to bed again? - Federico said.

- Yes, I - answered the questioned
decision.

- Why, what are you, old man?

- I'm good.

- How?

- I
have a fever.

And chilblains. And rheumatism - Juanito said.

And sank beneath the sheets.

After a momentary pause, he said from the darkness:

- And now my heart hurts.

Sucediose awkward silence. The men looked at each other and after the fire.

Despite the appetizing banquet before them, thought it fell again
into despondency Daniel the drugstore, when the plaintive voice of
the old, high incautiously came until the meeting in a sufficiently
clear to be heard.

- In this tea on the right ... It is quite true
... Of course they are.

A crew of drunks and bums! ... and that Frederick Bullen is the worst. Do not have opinion for
coming here, having a sick home and without our provision of any
kind?

... I know what I said ... Bullen, I said, is that you are drunk
or crazy to think such a thing?

... What about Conrad?

How could ocurrírsete turn my house into a field Agramante taking
my sick child?

Is that wanted to come, I say.

Here's what to expect from this rabble the Bar

Homeric laughter
followed this unfortunate event.

At this point, whether it was heard laughing in the kitchen, or the angry old companion had exhausted
all other modes of expressing his contempt and indignation, the fact
was that a back door closed loudly.

All remained in suspense until the reappearance of old, happily ignoring the cause the latest outbreak
of laughter and smiling hypocritically.

- My wife had the idea to spend some time with Mrs. Mac Fadden - said
by way of explanation and casually, to take a seat among the guests.

And, strange to say, it took this incident to alleviate adverse pregnancy
heading began to feel, and their natural audacity recovered with the
return of the host.

Do not try to tell jokes Christmas banquet.

Suffice it to say that the conversation was characterized by intellectual
excitement, the wary respect, the meticulous delicacy rhetorical precision
and the same logical and coherent discourse that distinguish these
manly meetings and in most civilized places where there is the finest
social intercourse.

No one glass broke because you have not, nor needlessly spilled liquor by the ground or on the table,
by the scarcity of that article.

It would almost midnight when the party was interrupted.

- You must
keep quiet - said Fred, raising his hand.

It was the querulous voice of Johnny, from his bedroom immediately.

-
Oh, Father!

The old man rose hurriedly introduced in the sickroom.

Soon reappeared.

- Rheumatism makes him hard - he said - and he needs some friction.

Took from the table the jug of liquor and shook it.

I was completely emptied.

Bullen Federico hojadelata left his cup with a forced laugh.

The others followed suit.

The old man considered the most animated content and said:

- I think there's enough. Wait a moment, back soon.

And he went back into the little room, taking a flannel shirt and old brandy.

As the door was ajar, distinctly heard the following dialogue:

- Tell me, my son, where it hurts most?

- It hurts everything. Ora here and under there now, but is stronger
from here to here.

Run, father Scrub hard.

And the silence seemed to indicate a lively friction. So Johnny said:

- Do you spend a good time out there, father?

- Yes, my son.

- Is it Christmas morning, right?

- Yes, my son. How do you feel now?

- Best, rub a little lower.

What is Christmas? Tell me why is this party?

- Oh, it's a day! ...

Here, apparently overcame the pain that childlike curiosity, since
there was a silent interval during which the old man continued rubbing.

Soon, Johnny continued:

- Mother says that everywhere but here, all things are given each
other for the day.

Says there is a man who called St. Nicholas, see?

But not a target, but a Chinese species, which come down the chimney
the night before Christmas, leaving things to children like myself
who have been careful to leave his boots there.

That ... that's what I wanted to do believe ... Come, father, where are you rubbing? You're just
one kilometer from the site ... Tell me no invented this for us tease
you and me?

... Do not rub there ... Answers.

In the stillness of the night that seemed to hover over the house,
he clearly heard the buzz of the nearby pine trees as wind harps have
been tainted by the wind.

- Come on, do not be like the father, because
soon I'm gonna be good.

What are those men out there?

The old man opened the door and looked absently.

The men were sitting in good company, with a few pieces of silver on table and a thin chamois bag
in her hands.

- They are putting together ... a game.

And get by - Juanito answered and returned to their friction.

- I'd like to hand and make money - Juanito said reflectively, after a short silence.

For all comfort, the old man repeated what was obviously for him eternal chorus is say that
if Johnny would wait until which would give the seam in the mine, would have much money, and
would be very rich.

- Yes - Juanito said - but can not find it.

Moreover, giving him or me to win, is almost same. At the end of the day, it is just luck.
But it is very strange as Christmas, is not right? Why call it Christmas?

Be instinctive deference to the concerns of its guests, whether by
a vague sense of inconsistency, the response of the old one was so
low that it was wedged between the walls Room.

- Yes - said Johnny,
with interest and some declined .-- I have already talked about him
enough, father, no I do, not nearly, as much damage as before.

Now along with the blanket cover me and - muttering added under clothing
- sit beside me, until I fall asleep.

Do you hear?

And he composed to rest, but not before taking a hand off the blanket and grab tightly his father
by the sleeve in order to mock him not in their legitimate demands.

The old man waited patiently for several minutes.

The unusual quiet of the house excited his curiosity and detached by hand without rising, cautiously
opened the door and peered into the room.

With great surprise, he saw dark and empty.

But at that instant a log that was smoking in the home was broken, and in light of its flare
Federico saw Bullen sitting by the muffled tailings.

- Hello!

Federico started, stood up and walked toward him, half staggering.

- Do the companions where they went? - Said the old man.

- Upon return here. Would have come to take a little walk. I am waiting. What are you looking so
intently, man? - Said with forced laughter - are you going to believe I'm drunk?

Having been spared the old man could fancy, it's eyes were moist Federico and his face like a
tomato.

Made himself a little lazy, and returned to the fireplace. Yawned, desperezose, buttoned his
coat, and he laughed:

- The wine is not as abundant as it goes, man.

Do not get up - he went on, when the old made a motion to rid your sleeve Juanito hand .-- Do
not fulfilled. You where you stand there, I'll instantly. They're here.

Knocked softly at the door.

Bullen Federico Abriola, with a wave goodbye to the old and disappeared.

The old man would have continued were it not for the hand that stopped
him strongly inert yet, no be easy to discard it.

It was small, weak and skinny, but perhaps because small weak and emaciated yielded to pressure
and further approaching the chair to the bed, leaned over her head,
surprising him sleep at this attitude.

The room wavered and vanished before his eyes, reappeared, vanished
again, darkened and let him sleep at all.

Meanwhile, Federico Bullen closed the door, and joined his comrades.

- Are you ready? - Conrad said.

- Ready! - Federico said, - what time is it?

- The one - said, - can you? Are almost fifty miles round trip.
- It seems to me - briefly Federico said .-- Is the horse here?

-
Bill and Jaime have it already in the pine forest.

- Well, that saved
a moment.

He turned and walked gingerly back into the house.

Guided
by the dim light of the candle and cushioned running fire, noted that
the door the little room was open and went to her toes.

The old cast
was snoring in his chair, legs outstretched, head back and hat pulled
down over his eyebrows.

Beside him, on a narrow wooden bed, lay wrapped
closely as Juanito mummy in the blanket that covered her all but a
portion of the front and a little hand livid and stretched that struggled
in vain to enter.

Bullen Fred took a step, hesitated and looked over
his shoulder the empty room.

Most profound silence reigned.

With
sudden resolution leaned over the sleeping boy with both hands spreading
his great whiskers.

But at the moment to do so, a mischievous air
blast stalking him, turned in a whirlwind the chimney down, reviving
the live firing home and clarity, from which he fled Federico and
scared.

His companions were already waiting in the pines.

Two of
them were fighting to hold in the darkness a strange warp, which in
Federico as he approached, was outlining her figure. It was the mare.

The
quadruped had not, in fact, pretty picture.

Nothing remarkable offering
from its blunt snout to its rump raised, and from his arched spine,
concealed by the ragged and stiff Machill Mexican Saddle up his thick,
straight and bony legs, there was a single line of grace and noble
aspect that distinguishes your species.

With the white half-blind
eyes, but evil, his lower lip hanging, and his monstrous color, was
unable to arouse the slightest aesthetic sense.

- Well - said Conrad
- careful with the shoes, boys, up! Eye with no descuidarte foremost
in grasping the mane, and looks to grab then the other bracket. Arriba!

Hastily
mounted the rider kicked solipeds battling, they parted with precipitation
viewers and flew in a circle shaking horseshoes, earth to tremble
animal jumps. Finally, the spurs and departed sounded Jovita. Federico,
in darkness, shouted

- Good going!

- When you return do not take
the low road, unless the time is pressing. Do not stop the down the
hill! At six we wait at the ford. Underway. Hop! Adelante!

And sparkled
the stones, the gravel crunched loudly Frederick road and plunged
into darkness.

* * * * * * *

Oh, Muse! sings, the cavalcade of Frederick
Bullen! Oh, Muses, come to my help to sing the chivalrous men, the
sacred company, the deeds, the clay of the louts scoundrels, the ride
terrible and fearful dangers Flower Bar Samson! Ah, my muse! Scornful
you! ... Nothing like this animal and its ragged coceador rider, and
strength is follow me in simple prose.

It was two, barely reached
Rattlesnake-Hill, and by the interval had Jovita gala of all his vices,
and brought out all his skills.

Three times he stumbled. Twice he
raised his snout blunt straight with the reins, and resisting the
brake and the spur, ran madly through the fields and crops.

Twice
they put hands, and fell back, and twice had to Federico agile use
all their wits and good fortune to regain his seat.

And a mile ahead,
at the foot of a long hill, was Rattlesnake-Creek.

Federico knew
there awaited capital test of your ability, if he wanted to reach
the end of their journey. He clenched his teeth, fitted her knees
on the sides of the mare and changed their tactic of defense in a
strong offensive.

Jovita excited and angry, began the descent of
the hill.

The artificial Federico stop pretending to repression manifests,
and lied to cries of fear.

Needless to add that Jovita then began
spiraling career. Nor is it necessary to set here the time spent on
the decline, is inscribed in the annals of Bar Samson.

I'll just
say that after a while, it seemed to Frederick that mud from splashing
-flooded banks of Rattlesnake Creek.

According to the plans of Frederick,
the thrust had acquired was beyond the margin and having it on purpose
to a great leap, were released in the middle of the rushing stream
River.

A few moments of fighting, kicking and swimming, and Frederick
breathed loudly, after winning the opposite bank.

The road from Rattlesnake
Creek to-Red-Mountain was pretty good.

Either because the en-Rattlesnake
Creek had tempered his evil burning, or because the art led Frederick
would have demonstrated the superior wickedness of her rider, Jovita
and not waste their energy surplus in vain whims, and seemed to have
become a serious solemnity.

Once only sews to the hind legs, but
it was by force of habit, another Once trembled, but it was a damn
old to be brought on the road with a monumental basket on her head.

Pits,
mounds of gravel, chunks of fresh emerging planted grass, flew under
its infused legs seemed strange force.

He began to wheeze, once or
twice she coughed slightly, but decreased their strength or speed
of his career.

In the three had spent the Red-Mountain and began
the descent towards the plain.

Ten minutes later, the driver of the
rapid diligence Pioneer was shot and left behind by a "man on a pinto
horse" in the words of the driver.

At half past three Federico rose
in his stirrups and cried out.

The torn clouds shone through the
stars and in front of him, beyond the plain stood two needles, two
flagpoles and a silhouette of black objects staggered.

Fred shook
his spurs and swung his Riata. Jovita rushed, and a moment later entered
the race in Tuttleville, and stopped at the Place de la Fonda Nations.

What
happened that night Tuttleville is not precisely part of the story.

But
not be too verbose I can say that when Jovita had passed into the
possession of sleepy groom, who soon shook him sleep with a pair of
kicks, Federico left with the innkeeper for a ride by the people who
slept silently.

The lights of a few taverns and gambling houses were
still bright, but avoid the temptation stopped before several closed
shops, and therefore repeatedly calling after screaming, managed to
rise from their beds and forcing owners to unlock the doors of their
stores and to expose their wares to the importunate visitors.

Mynheer had bowed and smiled as each new contribution was handed him and straightway had found
a hammer and a nail and up it went beside its fellows. He never made objection: the more the
merrier. The ice wind would soon blow across the Maas from Papendrecht, the tall grasses in
the marshes turn pale with fright, and the lace-frost with busy fingers pattern the tiny panes,
and then Johann would pack the kits one after another, and the last good-byes take place. But
the sketches would remain. Oh! yes, the sketches would remain and tell the story of the summer
and every night new mugs would be filled around the coal-fire, and new pipes lighted--mugs
and pipes of the TOWNSPEOPLE this time, who came to feast their eyes,--and, although the summer
was gone, the long winter would still be his. No, Mynheer never objected!

And this simple form of settlement--a note of hand (in color), payable in yearly patronage--has
not been confined to modern times. Many an inn owes its survival to a square of canvas--the
head of a child, a copper pot, or stretch of dune; and more than one collector now boasts of
a masterpiece which had hung for years on some taproom wall, a sure but silent witness of the
poverty of a Franz Hals, Wouverman or Van der Helst.

Each year had brought new additions to the impecunious group about Mynheer's table.

Dear old Marny, with his big boiler amidships, his round, sunburned face shaded by a wide-brimmed,
slouch hat--the one he wore when he lived with the Sioux Indians--loose red tie tossed over
one shoulder, and rusty velveteen coat, was an old habitue. And so was dry, crusty Malone,
"the man from Dublin," rough outside as a potato and white inside as its meal. And so, too,
was Stebbins, the silent man of the party, and the only listener in the group. All these came
with the earliest birds and stayed until the boys got out their skates.

But there were others this year who were new. Pudfut, the Englishman, first--in from Norway,
where he had been sketching on board some lord's yacht--he of the grizzly brown beard, brown
ulster reaching to his toes, gray-checked steamer-cap and brierwood pipe--an outfit which he
never changed--"slept in them," Marny insisted.

"Me name's Pudfut," he began, holding out his hand to Marny. "I've got a letter in my clothes
for ye from a chap in Paris."

"Don't pull it out," had come the answer. "Put it there!" and within an hour the breezy fellow,
his arm through the Englishman's, had trotted him all over Dort from the Groote Kerk to the
old Gate of William of Orange, introducing him to every painter he met on the way, first as
Pudfut, then as Puddy, then as Pretty-foot, then as Tootsie-Wootsie, and last as Toots--a name
by which he is known in the Quartier to this day. This done, he had taken him up to his own
room and had dumped him into an extra cot--his for the rest of the summer.

Then Schonholz wandered in--five gulden a week board was the magnet--a cheese-faced, good-natured
German lad with forehead so high that when he raised his hat Marny declared, with a cry of
alarm, that his scalp had slipped, and only regained his peace of mind when he had twisted
his fat fingers in the lad's forelock to make sure that it was still fast. Schonholz had passed
a year at Heidelberg and carried his diploma on his cheek--two crisscross slashes that had
never healed--spoke battered English, wore a green flat-topped cap, and gray bobtailed coat
with two rows of horn buttons ("Come to shoot chamois, have you?" Marny had asked when he presented
his credentials.)--laughed three-quarters of the time he was awake, and never opened his kit
or set a palette while he was in Dort. "Too vet and too fodgy all dime," was the way he accounted
for his laziness.

Last came Joplin--a man of thirty-five; bald as an egg and as shiny. ("Dangerous to have a
hen around," Marny would say, rubbing the pate after the manner of a phrenologist.) Gaunt,
wiry; jerky in his movements as a Yankee clock and as regular in his habits: hot water when
he got up--two glasses, sipped slowly; cold water when he went to bed, head first, feet next,
then the rest of him; window open all night no matter how hard it blew or rained; ate three
meals a day and no more; chewed every mouthful of food thirty times--coffee, soup, even his
drinking-water (Gladstone had taught him that, he boasted)--a walking laboratory of a man,
who knew it all, took no layman's advice, and was as set in his ways as a chunk of concrete.

And his fads did not stop with his food; they extended to his clothes--everything he used,
in fact. His baggy knickerbockers ended in leather leggins to protect his pipe-stem shanks;
his shirts buttoned all the way down in front and went on like a coat; he wore health flannels
by day and a health shirt at night ("Just like my old Aunt Margaret's wrapper," whispered Marny
in a stage voice to Pudfut); sported a ninety-nine-cent silver watch fastened to a leather
strap (sometimes to a piece of twine); stuck a five-hundred-dollar scarab pin in his necktie--"Nothing
finer in the Boston Museum," he maintained, and told the truth--and ever and always enunciated
an English so pure and so undefiled that Stebbins, after listening to it for a few minutes,
proposed, with an irreverence born of good-fellowship, that a subscription be started to have
Joplin's dialect phonographed so that it might be handed down to posterity as the only real
and correct thing.

"Are you noticing, gentlemen, the way in which Joplin handles his mother tongue?" Stebbins
had shouted across the table: "never drops his 'g's,' never slights his first syllable; says
'HUmor' with an accent on the 'HU.' But for the fact that he pronounces 'bonnet' 'BUNNIT' and
'admires' a thing when he really ought only to 'like' it, you could never discover his codfish
bringing up. Out with your wallets--how much do you chip in?"

These peculiarities soon made Joplin the storm-centre of every discussion. Not only were his
views on nutrition ridiculed, but all his fads were treated with equal disrespect. "Impressionism,"
"plein air," the old "line engraving" in contrast to the modern "half-tone" methods--any opinion
of Joplin's, no matter how sane or logical, was jostled, sat on, punched in the ribs and otherwise
maltreated until every man was breathless or black in the face with assumed rage--every man
except the man jostled, who never lost his temper no matter what the provocation, and who always
came up smiling with some such remark as: "Smite away, you Pharisees; harmony is heavenly--but
stupid. Keep it up--here's the other cheek!"

On this particular night Joplin, as I have said, had broken out on diet. Some movement of Marny's
connected with the temporary relief of the lower button of his waistcoat had excited the great
Bostonian's wrath. The men were seated at dinner inside the coffee-room, Johann and Tine serving.

"Yes, Marny, I'm sorry to say it, but the fact is you eat too much and you eat the wrong things.
If you knew anything of the kinds of food necessary to nourish the human body, you would know
that it should combine in proper proportions proteid, fats, carbohydrates and a small percentage
of inorganic salts--these are constantly undergoing oxidation and at the same time are liberating
energy in the form of heat."

"Hear the bloody bounder!" bawled Pudfut from the other end of the table.

"Silence!" called Marny, with his ear cupped in his fingers, an expression of the farthest-away-boy-in-the-class
on his face.

Joplin waved his hand in protest and continued, without heeding the interruption: "Now, if
you're stupid enough to stuff your epigastrium with pork, you, of course, get an excess of
non-nitrogenous fats, and in order to digest anything properly you must necessarily cram in
an additional quantity of carbohydrates--greens, potatoes, cabbage--whatever Tine shoves under
your nose. Consult any scientist and see if I am not right--especially the German doctors who
have made a specialty of nutrition. Such men as Fugel, Beenheim and--"

Here a slice of Tine's freshly-cut bread made a line-shot, struck the top of Joplin's scalp,
caromed on Schonholz's shirt-front and fell into Stebbins's lap, followed instantly by "Order,
gentlemen!" from Marny. "Don't waste that slab of proteid. The learned Bean is most interesting
and should not be interrupted."

"Better out than in," continued Joplin, brushing the crumbs from his plate. "Bread--fresh bread
particularly--is the very worst thing a man can put into his stomach."

"And how about pertaties?" shouted Malone. "I s'pose ye'd rob us of the only thing that's kep'
us alive as a nation, wouldn't ye?"

"I certainly would, 'Loney, except in very small quantities. Raw potatoes contain twenty-two
per cent. of the worst form of non-nitrogenous food, and seventy-eight per cent. of water.
You, Malone, with your sedentary habits, should never touch an ounce of potato. It excites
the epigastric nerve and induces dyspepsia. You're as lazy as the devil and should only eat
nitrogenous food and never in excess. What you require is about one hundred grams of protein,
giving you a fuel value of twenty-seven hundred calories, and to produce this fifty-five ounces
of food a day is enough. When you exceed this you run to flesh--unhealthy bloat really--and
in the wrong places. You've only to look at Marny's sixty-inch waist-line to prove the truth
of this theory. Now look at me--I keep my figure, don't I? Not a bad one for a light-weight,
is it? I'm in perfect health, can run, jump, eat, sleep, paint, and but for a slight organic
weakness with my heart, which is hereditary in my family and which kills most of us off at
about seventy years of age, I'm as sound as a nut. And all--all, let me tell you, due to my
observing a few scientific laws regarding hygiene which you men never seem to have heard of."

Malone now rose to his feet, pewter mug in hand, and swept his eye around the table.

"Bedad, you're right, Joppy," he said with a wink at Marny--"food's the ruination of us all;
drink is what we want. On yer feet, gintlemen--every mother's son of ye! Here's to the learned,
livin' skeleton from Boston! Five per cint. man and ninety-five per cint. crank!"

II

The next morning the group of painters--all except Joplin, who was doing a head in "smears"
behind the Groote Kerk a mile away--were at work in the old shipyard across the Maas at Papendrecht.
Marny was painting a Dutch lugger with a brown-madder hull and an emerald-green stern, up on
the ways for repairs. Pudfut had the children of the Captain posed against a broken windlass
rotting in the tall grass near the dock, and Malone and Schonholz, pipe in mouth, were on their
backs smoking. "It wasn't their kind of a mornin'," Malone had said.

Joplin's discourse the night before was evidently lingering in their minds, for Pudfut broke
out with: "Got to sit on Joppy some way or we'll be talked to death," and he squeezed a tube
of color on his palette. "Getting to be a bloody nuisance."

"Only one way to fix him," remarked Stebbins, picking up his mahlstick from the grass beside him.

"How?" came a chorus.

"Scare him to death."

The painters laid down their brushes. Stebbins rarely expressed an opinion; any utterance from
him, therefore, carried weight.

"Go for him about his health, I tell you," continued Stebbins, dragging a brush from the sheaf
in his hand.

"But there's nothing the matter with him," answered Marny. "He's as skinny as a coal-mine mule,
but he's got plenty of kick in him yet."

"You're dead right, Marny," answered Stebbins, "but he doesn't think so. He's as big a fool
over every little pain as he is over his theories."

"Niver cracked his jaw to me about it," sputtered Malone from between the puffs of his pipe.

"No, and he won't. I don't jump on him as you fellows do and so I get his confidence. He's
in my room two or three times every night going over his symptoms. When his foot's asleep he
thinks he's got creeping paralysis. Every time his breath comes short, his heart's giving out."

"That's hereditary!" said Marny; "he said so."

"Hereditary be hanged! Same with everything else. Last night he dug me out of bed and wanted
me to count his pulse--thought it intermitted. He's hipped, I tell you, on his health!"

"That's because he lives on nothing," rejoined Marny. "Tine puts the toast in the oven over
night so it will be dry enough for him in the morning--she told me so yesterday. Now he's running
on sour milk and vinegar--'blood too alkaline,' he says--got a chalky taste in his mouth!"

"Well, whatever it is, he's a rum-nuisance," said Pudfut, "and he ought to be jumped on."

"Yes," retorted Stebbins, "but not about his food. Jump on him about his health, then he'll
kick back and in pure obstinacy begin to think he's well--that's his nature."

"Don't you do anything of the kind," protested Marny. "Joppy's all right--best lad I know.
Let him talk; doesn't hurt anybody and keeps everything alive. A little hot air now and then
helps his epigastric."

Malone and Schonholz had raised themselves on their elbows, twisted their shoulders and had
put their heads together--literally--without lifting their lazy bodies from the warm, dry grass--so
close that one slouch hat instead of two might have covered their conspiring brains. From under
the rims of these thatches came smothered laughs and such unintelligible mutterings as:

"Dot's de vay, by chimminy, 'Loney! And den I--"

"No, begorra! Let me have a crack at him fu'st!"

"No, I vill before go and you come--"

"Not a word to Marny, remimber; he'd give it away--"

"Yes, but we vill tell Poodfut und Sthebbins, eh?"

That afternoon the diabolical plot was put in motion. The men had finished for the day; had
crossed the ferry and had found Joplin wandering around the dock looking for a new subject.
The Groote Kerk "smear" was under his arm.

Pudfut, under pretence of inspecting the smear--a portrait of the old Sacristan on a bench
in front of the main entrance--started back in surprise on seeing the Bostonian, and asked
with an anxious tone in his voice:

"Aren't you well, old man? Look awfully yellow about the gills. Worked too hard, haven't you?
No use overdoing it."

"Well? Of course I'm well! Sound as a nut. Little bilious, maybe, but that's nothing. Why?"

"Oh, nothing! Must say, though, you gave me a twist when I came on you suddenly. Maybe it's
your epigastric nerve; maybe it's your liver and will pass off, but I'd knock off work for
a day or two if I were you."

Malone now took a hand.

"Let me carry yer kit, Joppy, ye look done up. What's happened to ye, man, since mornin'?"

"Never felt better in my life," protested Joplin. "No, I'll carry it--not heavy--"

Then he quickened his pace--they were all on their way back to the inn--and overtook Stebbins
and Schonholz.

"Stebbins, old man--"

"Yes, Joppy."

"What I told you last night is turning out just as I expected. Heart's been acting queer all
morning and my epigastric nerve is very sensitive. Puddy says I look awful. Do you see it?"

Stebbins looked into the Bostonian's face, hesitated, and said with an apologetic tone in his
voice:

"Well, everybody looks better one time than another. You've been working too hard, maybe."

"But do I look yellow?"

"Well, to tell you the truth, Joppy, you do--yellow as a gourd--not always, just now and then
when you walk fast or run upstairs."

"I've been afraid of that. Was my pulse all right when you counted it last night?"

"Yes, certainly--skipped a beat now and then, but that's nothing. I had an uncle once who had
a pulse that wobbled like that. He, of course, went off suddenly; some said it was apoplexy;
some said it was his heart--these doctors never agree. I wouldn't worry about it, old man.
Hold on, Pudfut, don't walk so fast."

Pudfut held on, and so did Schonholz and Malone, and then the four slipped behind a pile of
oil barrels and concentrated their slouch hats and Schonholz slapped his thigh and said with
a smothered laugh that it was "sphlendeed!" and Malone and Pudfut agreed, and then the three
locked arms and went singing up the street, their eyes on Joplin's pipe-stem legs as he trotted
beside Marny on his way to the inn.

When the party reached the coffee-room Marny called Tine to his side, spread out the fingers
and thumb of one hand, and that rosy-cheeked lass without the loss of a second, clattered over
to the little shelf, gathered up five empty mugs and disappeared down the cellar steps. This
done the coterie drew their chairs to one of Tine's hand-scrubbed tables and sat down, all
but Joplin, who kept on his way to his room. There the Bostonian remained, gazing out of the
window until Johann had banged twice on his door in announcement of dinner. Then he joined
the others.

When all were seated Schonholz made a statement which was followed with results more astounding
to the peace of the coterie than anything which had occurred since the men came together.

"I haf bad news, boys," he began, "offle bad news. Mine fader has wrote dat home I must. Nod
anuder mark he say vill he gif me. Eef I could sell somedings--but dat ees very seldom. No,
Marny, you don't can lend me noddings. What vill yourselluf do? Starve!"

"Where do you live, Schonholz?" asked Joplin.

"By Fizzenbad."

"What kind of a place is it--baths?"

"Yes."

"What are they good for?" continued Joplin in a subdued tone.

"Noddings, but blenty peoples go."

"I can tell you, Joppy," said Pudfut gravely, with a wink at Malone. "There are two spas, both
highly celebrated. Lord Ellenboro spent a month there and came back looking like another man.
One is for the liver and the other for something or other, I can't recollect what."

"Heart?" asked Joplin.

"I don't know."

He didn't,--had never heard the place mentioned until Schonholz had called its name a moment
before.

Joplin played with his knife and made an attempt to nibble a slice of Tine's toast, but he
made no reply. All the fight of every kind seemed to have been knocked out of him.

"Better take Fizzenbad in, Joppy," remarked Pudfut in an undertone. "May do you a lot of good."

"How far is it, Schonholz?" asked Joplin, ignoring the Englishman's suggestion.

"Oh, you leafe in de morgen and you come by Fizzenbad in a day more as do one you go oud mid."

"No--can't afford it."

Here Joplin pushed back his chair, and with the remark that he thought he would go downtown
for some colors, left the room.

"It's working like a dose of salts," cried Pudfut when the Bostonian was out of hearing. "Hasn't
said 'epigastric nerve,' 'gram' or 'proteids' once. Got real human in an hour. Stebbins, you're
a wonder."

The next morning everybody was up bright and early to see Schonholz off. One of Fop Smit's
packets was to leave for Rotterdam at seven and Schonholz was a passenger. He could go by rail,
but the boat was cheaper. No deceptions had been practised and no illusions indulged in as
to the cause of his departure. He had had his supplies cut off, was flat broke and as helpless
as a plant without water. They had all, at one time or another, passed through a similar crisis
and knew exactly what it meant. A purse, of course, could have been made up--Marny even insisted
on sharing his last hundred francs with him--and Mynheer would have allowed the board-bill
to run on indefinitely with or without an addition to his collection, but the lad was not built
along those lines.

"No--I go home and help mine fader once a leetle, den maybe I come back, don't it?" was the
way he put it.

The next morning, when the procession formed to escort him through the Old Gate, every man
answered to his name except Joplin--he had either overslept himself or was taking an extra
soak in his portable tub.

"Run, Tine, and call Mr. Joplin," cried Marny--"we'll go ahead. Tell him to come to the dock."

Away clattered the sabots up the steep stairs, and away they scurried down the bare corridor
to Joplin's room. There Tine knocked. Hearing no response she pushed open the door and looked
in. The room was empty! Then she noticed that the bed had not been slept in, nor had anything
on the washstand been used. Stepping in softly for some explanation of the unusual occurrence--no
such thing had ever happened in her experience, not unless she had been notified in advance--her
eye rested on a letter addressed to Stebbins propped up in full view against a book on Joplin's
table. Catching it up as offering the only explanation of his unaccountable disappearance,
she raced downstairs and, crossing the cobbles on a run, laid the letter in Stebbins's hand.

"For me, Tine?"

The girl nodded, her eyes on the painter's.

The painter broke the seal and his face grew serious. Then he beckoned to Marny and read the
contents aloud, the others crowding close:

Dear Stebbins:

Keep my things until I send for them. I take the night train for Rotterdam. Tell Schonholz
I'll join him there and go on with him to Fizzenbad. Sorry to leave this way, but I could not
bear to bid you all good-by. Joplin.

III

That night the table was one prolonged uproar. The conspirators had owned up frankly to their
share of the villany, and were hard at work concocting plans for its undoing. Marny was the
one man in the group that would not be pacified; nothing that either Pudfut, Stebbins or Malone
had said or could say changed his mind--and the discussion, which had lasted all day, brought
him no peace.

"Drove him out!--that's what you did, you bull-headed Englishman--you and Malone and Stebbins
ought to be ashamed of yourselves. If I had known what you fellows were up to I'd have pitched
you all over the dike. Cost Joppy a lot of money and break up all his summer work! What did
you want to guy him like that for and send him off to be scalded and squirted on in a damned
Dutch--"

"But we didn't think he'd take it as hard as that."

"You didn't, didn't you! What DID you think he'd do? Didn't you see how sensitive and nervous
he was? The matter with you fellows is that Joppy is a thoroughbred and you never saw one of
his kind in your life. Ever since he got here you've done nothing but jump all over him and
try to rile him, and he never squawked once--came up smiling every time. He's a thoroughbred--that's
what he is!"

The days that followed were burdened with a sadness the coterie could not shake off. Whatever
they had laughed at and derided in Joplin they now longed for. The Bostonian may have been
a nuisance in one way, but he had kept the ball of conversation rolling--had started it many
times--and none of the others could fill his place. Certain of his views became respected.
"As dear old Joppy used to say," was a common expression, and "By Jove, he was right!" not
an uncommon opinion. In conformity with his teachings, Marny reduced his girth measure an inch
and his weight two pounds--not much for Marny, but extraordinary all the same when his appetite
was considered.

Pudfut, in contrition of his offence, wrote his English friend Lord Something-or-other, who
owned the yacht, and who was at Carlsbad, begging him to run up and see the "best ever" and
"one of us"--and Malone never lost an opportunity to say how quick he was in repartee, or how
he missed him. Stebbins kept his mouth shut.

He had started the crusade, he knew, and was personally responsible for the result. He had
tried to arouse Joplin's obstinacy and had only aroused his fears. All he could do in reparation
was to keep in touch with the exile and pave the way for his homecoming. If Joppy was ill,
which he doubted, some of the German experts in whom the Bostonian believed would find the
cause and the remedy. If he was "sound as a nut," to quote Joplin's own words, certainty of
that fact, after an exhaustive examination by men he trusted, would relieve his nervous mind
and make him all the happier.

The first letter came from Schonholz. Liberally translated, with the assistance of Mynheer,
who spoke a little German, it conveyed the information that the Bostonian, after being put
on a strict diet, had been douched, pounded and rubbed; was then on his second week of treatment;
had one more to serve; was at the moment feeling like a fighting-cock, and after a fifth week
at Stuckbad, in the mountains, where he was to take the after-cure, would be as strong as a
three-year-old, and as frisky.

The second letter was from Joplin himself and was addressed to Stebbins. This last was authentic,
and greatly relieved the situation. It read:

Nothing like a thoroughly trained expert, my dear Stebbins. These German savants fill me with
wonder. The moment Dr. Stuffen fixed his eyes upon me he read my case like an open book. No
nitrogenous food of any kind, was his first verdict; hot douches and complete rest packed in
wet compresses, the next. I am losing flesh, of course, but it is only the "deadwood" of the
body, so to speak. This Dr. Stuffen expects to replace with new shoots--predicts I will weigh
forty pounds more--a charming and, to me, a most sane theory. You will be delighted also to
hear that my epigastric nerve hasn't troubled me since I arrived. Love to the boys, whom I
expect to see before the month is out. Joppy.

"Forty pounds heavier!" cried Marny from his end of the table. "He'll look like a toy balloon
in knee pants. Bully for Joppy! I wouldn't let any Schweizerkase with a hot douche get within
a hundred yards of me, but then I'm not a bunch of nerves like Joppy. Anyhow, boys, we'll give
the lad a welcome that will raise the roof. Joppy thin was pretty good fun, but Joppy fat will
be a roaring farce."

And so it was decided, and at once all sorts and kinds of welcomes were discussed, modified,
rearranged and discussed again. Pudfut suggested meeting him in Rotterdam and having a night
of it. Malone thought of chartering a steam launch, hiring a band and bringing him past the
towns with flags flying. Stebbins and Marny favored some demonstration nearer home, where everybody
could join in.

The programme finally agreed upon included a pathway of boughs strewn with wild flowers from
the steamboat landing, across the planking, over the cobbles, under the old Gate of William
of Orange, and so on to the door of the inn; the appointment of Tine, dressed in a Zeeland
costume belonging to her grand-mother, as special envoy, to meet him with a wreath of laurel,
and Johann in short clothes--also heirlooms--was to walk by his side as First Groom of the
Bed Chamber.

The real Reception Committee, consisting of Mynheer in a burgomaster suit borrowed from a friend,
and the four painters--Marny as a Dutch Falstaff, Pudfut as a Spanish Cavalier, Stebbins got
up as a Night Watch, and Malone in the costume of a Man-at-Arms--all costumes loaned for the
occasion by the antiquary in the next street--were to await Joplin's coming in the privacy
of the Gate--almost a tunnel--and so close to the door of the inn that it might have passed
for a part of the establishment itself.

Meantime the four painters were to collect material for the decoration of the coffee-room--wreaths
of greens over the mantel and festoons of ivy hanging down the back of Joplin's chair being
prominent features; while Mynheer, Tine and Johann were to concentrate their energies in preparing
a dinner the like of which had never been eaten since the sluiceways in the dikes drowned out
the Spanish duke. Not a word of all this, of course, had reached the ears of the Bostonian.
Half, three-quarters, if not all, the enjoyment of the occasion would be realized when they
looked on Joplin's face and read his surprise.

IV

The eventful day at last arrived. Stebbins, as prearranged, had begged the exile to telegraph
the exact hour of his departure and mode of travel from Rotterdam, suggesting the boat as being
by far the best, and Joplin had answered in return that Fop Smit's packet, due at sundown the
following day, would count him among its passengers.

The deep tones of the whistle off Papendrecht sent every man to his post, the villagers standing
back in amazement at the extraordinary spectacle, especially at Tine and Johann in their queer
clothes, who, being instantly recognized, were plied with questions.

The boat slowed down; made fast; out came the gangplank; ashore went the little two-wheel carts
drawn by the sleepy, tired dogs; then the baskets of onions were rolled off, and the few barrels
of freight, and then two or three passengers--among them a small, feeble man, in a long coat
reaching to his heels--made their way to the dock.

NO JOPPY!!

"That's the last man to come ashore here," said Marny. "What's become of the lad?"

"Maybe he's gone aft," cried Stebbins; "maybe--"

Here Tine gave a little scream, dropped her wreath and running toward the small, feeble man,
threw her arms around his neck. Marny and the others bounded over the cobbles, tossing the
bystanders out of the way as they forged ahead. When they reached Joplin he was still clinging
to Tine, his sunken cheeks and hollow deep-set eyes telling only too plainly how great an effort
he was making to keep on his legs. The four painters formed a close bodyguard and escorted
their long-lost brother to the inn.

Mynheer, in his burgomaster suit, met the party at the door, conducted them inside and silently
drew out the chairs at the coffee-room table. He was too overcome to speak.

Joplin dropped into the one hung with ivy and rested his hands on the table.

"Lord! how good it is to get here!" he said, gazing about him, a tremble in his voice. "You
don't know what I've gone through, boys."

"Why, we thought you were getting fat, Joppy," burst out Marny at last. Up to this time his
voice, like that of the others, seemed to have left him, so great was his surprise and anxiety.

Joplin waved his forefinger toward Marny in a deprecatory way, as if the memory of his experience
was too serious for discussion, played with his fork a moment, and said slowly:

"Will you lay it up against me, fellows, if I tell you the truth? I'm not as strong as I was
and a good deal of the old fight is out of me."

"Lay up nothin'!" cried Malone. "And when it comes to fightin' ye kin count on me every--"

"Dry up!" broke in Marny. "You're way off, Malone. No, Joppy, not a man here will open his
head: say the rest."

"Well, then, listen," continued the Bostonian. "I did everything they told me: got up at daylight;
walked around the spring seven times; sipped the water; ate what they prescribed; lay in wet
sheets two hours every day; was kneaded by a man with a chest as hairy as a satyr's and arms
like a blacksmith's; stood up and was squirted at; had everything about me looked into--even
stuck needles in my arm for a sample of my blood; and at the end of three weeks was so thin
that my trousers had to be lapped over in the back under a leather strap to keep them above
my hips, and my coat hung down as if it were ashamed of me. The population of Sandy-consciousness ignored Bar the
visit, offering various gifts coarse, but inspired by sincere sentiments. But since that fateful
day, that health and great strength seemed visibly to decline, and entry and the rainy season
when grass leaflets began to appear and between the rocky mound covering the tomb of Tennessee,
got himself beaten by the disease.

Then he put into bed.

That night, the pine trees surrounding the hut, shaken by the storm,
dragging their graceful branches over the roof, and the distance they
heard the roar and the pounding of the impetuous stream.

Tennessee's partner stood up and said:

- It is time, go in search of Tennessee; engancharé cart.

And he had risen from bed to not telling her maid prevented. However, making strange movements,
continued its singular delirium

- Come, borriquita!

So, so! Still! How dark it is! Alert for holes, and care He also, old. You know that sometimes,
when drunk, roll like a log up the ditch. Run, then, straight to the pine up there on the hill.
Well ... No I said it! ... There it is! ... is coming ... just ... serene ... How to shine
your eyes! Tennessee!

And so it was to meet ...

A POOR MAN

In 1852, came with us to California, aboard the Skiscraper, an individual named Fag, David Fag.
I think that the adventurous spirit had little effect on his departure, probably would have
no place to go. In the evenings, when young people gathered, pondered the magnificent placements we had
left, and how sad they had been our from friends to see us, when we taught daguerreotypes, and
loops of hair, and talked Mary and Susan, the poor man used to sit with us and we listened painfully
humbled, but without saying a word. Maybe it had nothing to say. Lacked comrades except when we
protected him, and in honor of the truth, we enjoyed a lot. No did wind to fill a hat, and I
was dizzy, could never get used to life on board. I will never forget how we laughed when
Abel brought a piece of bacon in a string, y. .. but everybody knows this classic joke, then joked
to its shores with great joy. Ms. Engracia could not suffer, he did believe that she had fancied
with him, and sent them to the cabin books and candy. It was funny seeing the scene that took place
when fighting stammering and dizziness, rose to thank him for the gifts. Menudo was she angry!
It seemed to Medora, said Abelard, who knew Byron by heart, and were not a little choked the
old Fag!

However, we do not hold grudges, and when Abelardo fell ill at Valparaiso, the old Fag nursed him carefully.
It was, in short, a boy good pasta, but lacked courage and enterprise. Absolutely devoid of all
aesthetic feeling once it became seen lounging sat mending his old clothes, while reciting Abelardo
the stirring apostrophe of Byron Ocean. On one occasion, he asked very seriously Abelardo if he thought
Byron had been dizzy on occasion. I do not remember the answer to Abelard but we all laughed,
and I think it would be good, it was not without Abelardo of humor.

The day the Skiscraper came to San Francisco, held a grand banquet. Convínose to meet every
year and perpetuate such an event. Of course, that we invite to Fag. Fag was a third passenger, and
as will be understood, it was necessary, since we were on land, be a bit cautious. But the
old Fag, as we called him, but was not more than twenty-five years (such as brackets), was
for us that day the subject of much banter. According to seems, conceived the idea of ​​walking
to Sacramento, and really went on that form.

The party was complete: gave us all a good handshake, and each was by his side. Alas! No it
eight years ago, and yet, some of those hands, then narrowed friendly, have risen up against
each other, and have sneaked into our pockets. We did not eat together and next year, because
the young Baker vowed not to ever sit in occupy the same table as a villain as despicable as Remigio,
and Colas, which asked Valparaiso borrow the young Lupo, who served as a waiter in a restaurant,
did not like meet people of such ilk.

Having purchased a number of actions Cayote's Tunnel in Mugginswille, 54, is I did go up there
and examine it. I stayed at the Fonda of the Empire, and after eating, I looked for a horse,
I turned the village and went to the mines. I was told a of those individuals whom newspaper
correspondents call "our intelligent news "and that small communities can easily take the right
to give all kinds reporting. The force of habit and allowed to work and talk at once, without
forgetting never one thing for another.

Brought me a kind of history of the farm, adding:

- See you (and headed to the bank before it), surely there must come out gold (And here filed a
coma with his lance), but the previous owner (pulled stomach cramps the word of his pica) was
a poor man (and underlined the phrase with pica), an unhappy devoid of all authority, allowing the
kids to go up to her whiskers ... (The rest entrusted the operation
to remove his hat to wipe his brow manly with a large blue check handkerchief.)

Curiosity
led me to ask who was the original owner.

- It was called Fag.

I hastened to visit him, I seemed older and uglier. He had worked hard, as said, however, the
only thing he was going so well. Take his hobby and to some extent protected him. If I did, because
it started to feel distrust for kids like Abelard and Remigio need not speak.

Everyone remembers how the Cayote's Tunnel collapsed ignominiously and how we cheated. Well,
well, the first thing I learned was that Abelard, one of the major shareholders, was reduced
in Migginswille to save the hotel bar, and had the old Fag Rich, at last, and vareaba silver.
Remigio I learned all this when he came to fix their affairs.

He also told me that he had coconuts Fag daughter of the owner of that hotel. So, by hearsay
and by letters, I came to know that Robins, the owner of the hotel tried to arrange the marriage
between his daughter Rosita and Fag. Rosita was a strange child nice and plump, and I would
not do more than what his father commanded. I found it very convenient Fag to marry and to establish,
therefore, as a married man, would acquire all other authority.

Resolved, then, one day up to Mugginswille, to treat the matter myself.

There I had the great satisfaction that I serve drinks Abelardo yes, because it was Abelard,
the cheerful, bright, the invincible Abelard, who had tried for two years to despise. Talk about the
old Fag and Rosita, precisely because I thought the matter it would not be pleased. Declarome
that Fag never liked, and was sure that Rosita also liked: perhaps another person occupied the thoughts
of Rosita.

Then he turned to the desk mirror and smoothed his hair, I realized the vanity scoundrel, and
I thought to warn Fag so to hurry to formalize their union. In the course of a long conversation
we had and the tone in which he spoke, I wished I see that the poor boy was madly in love with the girl.
He sighed and coated prometiome courage to take the matter to a crisis. I also understood it,
an excellent heart, felt a kind of silent respect for Fag, but had
turned her head qualities Abelardo surface, which were nice and courteous.

I do not think Rosie was worse you and me: we are more willing to judge the face value known that
internal value. We are less work and more comfortable, except when we need to rely them. The challenge
for the women, is that in them the feeling is interested sooner than us, and you already understand
that in this case reflection is impossible. This is what had happened to the old Fag if it had been a
man of the most Light psychology.

But it was not.

The thing was hopeless.

Some months later she was sitting in my office when I showed the old Fag. After of a warm handshake,
talk about current affairs, of that mechanically own people who know
you have something to say, but that is bound to get there through
the usual ceremonies.

After a pause, Fag, with its usual ease, I said:

- I return to my
home.

- Does your home?

- Yes, that is, I think I'll do a trip to
the Atlantic States.

I've been to see, then, as you know, I have some properties and powers have given your name to
can manage: I bring some papers that would want to keep in your possession.

Would you take care of them?

- Yes - I said .-- "But what about Rosie?

Dumb fag, tried to smile, and this game was one of the most striking effects and grotesque
that ever witnessed. Finally he said:

- I will not marry Rosita, that is - and seemed to be asked internally as forgiveness of a sentence
categorically - I think I will better not to marry.

- David Fag - said with sudden severity, - are a poor man.

And to my surprise, his face became animated.

- Yes - said - that is, I am a poor man, so I've known forever, I'll tell you, I thought Abelard
wanted the girl as I do, and knew also that she loved him more than
to me, and it might be happier with my rival.

In addition, I also know that the old Robins I would have preferred the other because I was rich,
and that the girl would have obeyed his father, but, you know?, I figured that in the way,
as they say, so I chose to retire. However - continued when was about to interrupt him, - for
fear that the father Abelard rejected, I have paid enough to establish himself in Dogtown. Enterprising,
active, bright, as you know it's Big Bird, can advance and become again with his old position,
and there is no need for it urges him if he fails.

Alargome hand to say goodbye again.

Sentíame tired of leftovers for their way of treating such kind Abelardo to show, but as business
was good, I promised to take care of him, and departed Fag.

Some time passed. He came back the next steamer, and for several days, a terrible accident occupied
the attention of the United States. In all regions of the State leíanse eagerly the details of a terrible
shipwreck, and those who had friends on board met to read compressed breath long list of victims.
I searched the names of all interesting beings, and lucky ones who had perished, and I think I was the
first to discover, among them, the name of David Fag.

The poor man had, then, in fact, come home!

The outcasts of Poker Flat

To set foot Don Jorge, played by trade, in the main street of Poker-Flat, in the morning on 22 November
1850, and sensed that from the night before, was made a change in the moral atmosphere of the
population. Some groups where they talked seriously fell silent when he approached and exchanged
significant glances. It was noteworthy that dominated The air was quiet Sunday best, which in a
camp not used to influence Sunday, it seemed a bad omen, yet tranquil and beautiful face of
Don Jorge did not reveal any interest in these symptoms. Did you
perhaps aware of any predisposing cause?

That was something different.

- I suspect that going after any - thought, - perhaps after me.

Into his pocket the handkerchief with which he had shaken off the red dust boots Poker-Flat,
and with complete calmness dismissed from his mind all conjecture.

The truth was that Poker-Flat was after all. He had recently suffered a few thousand dollars,
two valuable horses and a prominent citizen, and the currently going
through a crisis of virtuous reaction, as illegal and violent as any
of acts that arose.

The secret committee had decided to expel any member of your breast rotten. Practicose this
in a permanent manner on two men hanging and the branches of a sycamore tree in the ravine, and
on a temporary exile of several other people abysmal. It is sensible to say that some of these
were women; but in defense of sex, I must warn that their immorality was professional and just
before a defect such as patent-Poker Flat ventured to establish itself as inflexible court.

A Mr. George had plenty of reason to suppose that he was included in the sentence. Someone from
the committee had suggested the idea of ​​hanging him as an example tangible and safe means of
reimbursement, at the expense of his pocket, of the sums that they
had won.

- It is not fair - Simon said sail - let that young Rodrigo
Country, abroad by four sides, will drive our savings.

However, an imperfect sense of fairness, emanating from those who had had the good cleaning luck
in the game Don Jorge, silenced the petty concerns of the fiercest.

Don Jorge was the problem with the philosophical calm, the more suspicious about the hesitations
and of their judges. He was a good player for not submitting to fate. In his feeling, Life was
a game of chance and the percentage admitted to the bank usual.

An escort of armed men accompanied the social scum Poker-Flat to the outskirts the camp. They were
part of the departure of the expelled, in addition to Mr. George,
recognized as a man firmly resolved to intimidate and which had taken
care to assemble the picket, a young woman familiarly known by the
Duchess, another woman who had earned the title of Mother Shipton,
and Uncle Billy, who is suspected of stealing reefs and drunkard.

The ride does not excite any comments from the spectators, nor the guard said a single word.
Only when they reached the gully that marked the last limit of Poker-Flat, the head spoke four
words in connection with the case, which he wishes to preserve his life, should not be put
more boots on Poker-Flat.

Then, when the guard walked away, feeling tablets breathed in some tears hysterical by the Duchess,
in injuries to the mother and blasphemies Shipton that, like poisoned
arrows, spears Uncle Billy.

Only Don Jorge remained stoic mute. Listened impassively the wishes of the mother Shipton to
take someone's heart, repeated statements of the Duchess that she would die on the road, and
the startling blasphemies that seemed to rip off Uncle Billy shakes his horse. To not deny the
frank gallantry of his class, he insisted exchange his own horse, called The Five by poor mule
he rode the Duchess, but even this action aroused sympathy among the wandering of the party. The
Duchess arranged his feathers faded coquetry tired, the Mother Shipton glanced malevolently the possessor
of The Five, and Uncle Billy did not spare any of the game with his tirades.

Anyway, the way of Sandy-Bar, camp because of not having yet experienced the regenerating influence
of Poker-Flat, seemed to offer some encouragement to emigrants going
through a steep mountain, and offered travelers a day rather regular.

In that advanced season, the game quickly got out of the humid, temperate regions hills, dry
air, cold and strong in the mountains. The trail was narrow and difficult; around noon, the
Duchess, dropping from his horse to the ground, said his decision not to proceed further.

The spot was singularly wild and impressive. An amphitheater village forest, closed three sides
by rugged rocks on the bare granite, leaned gently on the crest of another precipice that
overlooked the plain. Without a doubt, was the most the way to a camp if the camp would have
been prudent. But Mr. George, not easily lose their orientation, I knew I had only done half the
journey to Sandy-Bar, and the game was not equipped nor provided to a halt. However, only served
to remind this circumstance accompanying his teammates a philosophical commentary on the madness
of folding before the end of the game. Were provided with liquor, and this contingency supplied the food
and everything else that they lacked. Despite his protest, soon fall into more or less under
the influence of alcohol.

Mother Shipton began to snore, Uncle Billy passed rapidly from the warlike state of stupor, the Duchess
was as lethargic. Only Don Jorge remained standing, leaning against a rock, calmly watching
them, because Mr. George did not drink, this would have hurt to a profession that requires calculus,
impassive and cold blood, in order to avail ourselves of his own phrase, not "could afford it."
Looking at his fellow exile and to philosophize about the isolation born of his office, on the
habits of his life and on their own vices, he felt depressed for
the first time.

He proceeded to remove dust from your black suit, wash hands and face and do other acts characteristic
of his habits of extreme cleanliness, and for a moment forgot his
situation. Do not ever commit the sin idea of ​​abandoning their comrades,
more weak and pitiful, but yet he longed miss that excitement which,
strange to say, was a major factor in the quiet impassive which he
enjoyed. Embedded examined the sad walls that rose a thousand feet
high, steeply up above the pine trees surrounding it, the sky filled
with ominous clouds, and further down the valley and sinking in the
shade, when he suddenly heard his name called.

A horseman slowly
ascended the path. Did not take long to recognize the frank and lively
face newcomer Thomas Buffalo, called the Innocent of Sandy Bar. He
had found some months ago in a practice match where to the extent
legally beat any young candid his fortune, amounting to about forty
dollars. After the game was over, Don George retired as a young speculator
behind the door, and there told him these or similar words:

- Tom,
you're a good boy, but you can play or not worth a penny, do not try
again if you follow my advice. Sometimes my articles found an echo in a note written
to me by the guests themselves; this would fill me with joy. Often I was criticised for the
absurdity of my views.

On this occasion a great banquet was to be given to Prince Polinski, a nephew of the Czar and
possible heir to the throne. The press had been filled with the detail of his daily life--of
the dinners, teas and functions given by society in his honor; of his reception by the mayor,
of his audience at the White House; of the men who guarded his person; of his "opinions," "impressions"
and "views" on this, that and the other thing, but so far no one had dissected the man himself.

What our editor wanted was a minute analysis of the mind of a young Russian studied at close
range. The occasion of the banquet was selected because I could then examine him at my leisure.
The results were to be used by the editor in an article of his own, my memoranda being only
so much padding.

When I entered and took up a position near the door where I could look him over, Delmonico's
largest reception-room was crowded with guests: bankers, railroad presidents, politicians,
officers of the army and navy, judges, doctors, and the usual collection of white shirt-fronts
that fill the seats at a public dinner of this kind. The Prince was in the uniform of an officer
of the Imperial Navy. He was heavily built and tall, with a swarthy face enlivened by a pointed
mustache. The Russian Ambassador at his side was in full dress and wore a number of decorations:
these two needed no pointing out. Some of the others were less distinguishable-among them a
heavily-built man in evening-dress, with a full beard and mustache which covered his face almost
to his eyes--soft and bushy as the hair on a Spitz dog and as black. With a leather apron and
a broad-axe he would have passed at a masquerade for an executioner of the olden time. Despite
this big beard, there was a certain bearing about the man--a certain elegance both of manner
and gesture--talking with his hands, accentuating his sentences with outstretched fingers,
lifting his shoulders in a shrug (I saw all this from across the room where I stood)--that
showed clearly not only his high position, but his breeding. What position he held under the
Prince I was, of course, unaware, but it must have been very close, for the big Russian kept
him constantly at the royal side. I noted, too, that the Prince was careful to introduce him
to many who were brought up to shake his hand.

When the procession was formed to march into the dining-hall, Polinski came first on the arm
of the mayor; then followed a group of dignitaries, including the Ambassadors, the black-bearded
man walking by the side of the Prince, who would now and then turn and address him.

My seat was against the wall opposite the dais, and knowing that I should have scant opportunity
to study the Prince's face from where I sat, I edged my way along the side of the corridor,
the crowd making progress difficult for him, but easy for me, as I crept close to the wall.
When I reached the door opening into the banquet hall I took up a position just inside the
jamb, so that I could get a full view of the Prince as he passed.

At this instant I became aware that a pair of broad shoulders were touching mine. Turning quickly,
I found myself looking into the face of the bearded Russian. His eyes were fastened on mine,
an inquiring, rather surprised look on his face, as if he was wondering at the bad manners
of a man who would thrust himself ahead of a royal personage. For an instant the features were
calm and impassive, then as he continued to look at me there flashed out of his eyes a search-light
glance that shot straight through me.

It was Bing!

Bearded like a Cossack; more heavily built, solemn, dignified, elegant in carriage and demeanor,
with not a trace of jollity about him--but Bing all the same! I could have sworn to it!

The flash burned for an instant; the eyes behind the canvas dodged back, then with a graceful
wave of the hand he turned to the Ambassador who was now abreast of him and said in a voice
so low that I caught the words but not the full tone:

"Isn't it a charming sight, your Excellency? There is nothing like the hospitality of these
wonderful Americans." And the two passed into the brilliantly-lighted hall.

I made my way to my seat and sat thinking it over. That he had recognized me was without question;
that he had ignored me was equally true--why, I could not tell.

For years I had made him one of my heroes. He had stood for cheerfulness, for contentment with
one's lot, for consideration for another--and always a weaker brother. When his abrupt departure
had been criticised by my fellow-boarders, I had stemmed the tide against him, dilating on
his love for his children, on his loneliness away from them; on his simplicity, his common-sense,
his desire to help even a young fellow like me who had no claim upon him. In return he had
seen fit to treat me with contempt--I who would have been so proud to tell him how his advice
had helped me and what progress I had made by following it.

The incident took such hold upon me that I found myself dissecting his mentality instead of
that of the Great Personage in the public eye. As I analyzed my feelings I found that he had
hurt my heart more than my pride. I would have been so glad to shake his hand--so glad to rejoice
with him over his changed conditions--once the occupant of a front room in a cheap boarding-house,
supporting himself by filling space in the columns of an encyclopaedia, and now the bosom friend
of Princes and Ambassadors!

Then a doubt arose in my mind. WAS it Bing? Had I not made a mistake? How could a smooth-shaven
Dane with blond hair transform himself into a swarthy Russian with the beard of a Cossack?
There was, it is true, no change in the eyes or in the round head--in the whiteness and width
of the forehead, or the breadth of the shoulders. All these I went over one by one as I watched
him every now and then lean across the table and speak to some of the distinguished guests
that surrounded him. The thing which puzzled me was his grave, sedate demeanor, dignified,
almost austere at times. A man, I thought, might grow a beard and dye it, but how could he
grow a different set of manners, how smother his jollity, how wipe out his spontaneous buoyancy?

No, it was not Bing! It was only my stupid self. I was always ready to find the mysterious
and unnatural. I turned to the guest next me.

"Do you know who that man is on the dais," I asked; "the one all black and white, with the
big beard?"

"Yes, one of the Prince's suite; some jaw-breaking name with an '-usski' on the end of it.
He brought him with him; looks like a bull pup chewing a muff, doesn't he?"

I smiled at the comparison, but I was still in doubt.

When the banquet broke up I hurried out ahead of the others and posted myself at the top of
the staircase leading down to the side door of the street. The Prince's carriage--an ordinary
cab--was ordered to this door to escape the crowd and to avoid any delay. This I learned from
my old friend Alcorn of the Central Office, who was in charge of the detectives at the dinner,
and who in answer to my request said:

"Certainly I'll let you through. Come alone, and don't speak to me as you go by. I'll say you're
one of us. The crowd thinks he's going out by the other door, and you can get pretty close to him."

The Prince came first, wrapped in furs--the black-bearded Russian at his side in overcoat,
silk hat and white gloves. The Ambassador and the others had bidden them good-night at the
top of the staircase.

Under Alcorn's direction I had placed myself just inside the street door where I could slip
out behind the Prince and his black-bearded companion. As a last resort I determined to walk
straight up to him and say: "You haven't forgotten me, Mr. Bing, have you?" If I had changed
so as to need proof of my identity Alcorn would furnish it. Whatever his answer, his voice
would solve my mystery.

He walked down the stairs with an easy, swinging movement, keeping a little behind the Prince;
waited until Alcorn had opened the street door and with a nod of thanks followed Polinski out
into the night. Once outside I shrank back into the shadow of the doorway and held my breath
to catch his first spoken word--to the coachman--to the Prince--to any one who came in his way.

At this moment a man in a slouch hat and poorly dressed, a light cane under his arm, evidently
a tramp, hurried across the street to hold the cab door. I edged nearer, straining my ears.

The Prince bent his head and stooped to enter the cab. The tramp leaned forward, shot up his
right arm; there came a flash of steel, and the next instant the tramp lay writhing on the
sidewalk, one hand twisted under his back, the other held in the viselike grip of the black-bearded
man. Alcorn rushed past me, threw himself on the prostrate tramp, slipped a pair of handcuffs
over his wrists, dragged him to his feet, and with one hand on his throat backed him into the
shadow of the side door.

The Prince smiled and stepped into his carriage. The black-bearded man dusted his white gloves
one on the other, gave an order in a low tone to the coachman, took his place beside his companion
and the two drove off.

I stood out in the rain and tried to pull myself together. The rapidity of the attack; the
poise and strength of the black-bearded Russian; the quickness with which Alcorn had risen
to the occasion; the absence of all outcry or noise of any kind--no one but ourselves witnessing
the occurrence--had taken my breath away. That an attack had been made on the life of the Prince,
and that it had been frustrated by his friend, was evident. It was also evident that accosting
a Prince on the sidewalk at night without previous acquaintance was a dangerous experiment.
When I recovered my wits both Alcorn and the would-be assassin had disappeared. So had the cab.

Only two morning journals had an account of the affair; one dismissed it with a fling at the
police for not protecting our guests from annoyance, and the other stated that a drunken tramp
had demanded the price of a night's lodging from the Prince as he was leaving Delmonico's,
and that a member of the Prince's suite had held the fellow until a policeman came along and
took him to the station-house. Not a word of the murderous lunge, the flash of steel, the viselike
grip of the black-bearded man or the click of the handcuffs.

That night I found Alcorn.

"Did that fellow try to stab the Prince?" I asked.

"Yes."

"With a knife?"

"No, a sword cane."

"The papers didn't say so."

"No, I didn't intend they should. Wouldn't have been pleasant reading for his folks in St.
Petersburg. Besides, we haven't rounded up his gang yet."

"The Prince didn't seem to lose his nerve?" I asked.

"No, he isn't built that way."

"You know him, then?"

"Yes--been with him every day since he arrived."

"Who is the black-bearded man with him?"

"He is his intimate friend, Count Lovusski. Been all over the world together."

"Is Lovusski his ONLY name?" This seemed to be my chance.

Alcorn turned quickly and looked into my face.

"On the dead quiet, is it?"

"Yes, Alcorn, you can trust me."

"No--he's got half a dozen of 'em. In Paris in '70 he was Baron Germunde with estates in Hungary.
Lived like a fighting-cock; knew everybody at the Palace and everybody knew him--stayed there
all through the Franco-Prussian War. In London in '75 he was plain Mr. Loring, trying to raise
money for a mine somewhere in Portugal--knew nobody but stockbrokers and bank presidents. In
New York five years ago he was Mr. Norvic Bing, and worked on some kind of a dictionary; lived
in a boarding-house on Union Square."

I could not conceal my delight.

"I knew I was right!" I cried, laying my hand on his arm. "I lived with him there a whole winter."

"Yes, he told me so. That's why I am telling you the rest of it." Alcorn was smiling, a curious
expression lighting his face.

"And how came he to be such a friend of the Prince's?" I asked.

"He isn't his friend--isn't anybody's friend. He's a special agent of the Russian Secret Service."

CAPTAIN JOE AND THE SUSIE ANN

Wide of beam, stout of mast, short-bowspritted, her boom clewed up to clear her deck load of
rough stone; drawing ten feet aft and nine feet for'ard; a twelve-horse hoisting engine and
boiler in her forecastle; at the tiller a wabbly-jointed, halibut-shaped, moon-faced (partially
eclipsed, owing to a fringe of dark whiskers), sleepy-eyed skipper named Baxter,--such was
the sloop Susie Ann, and her outfit and her commander, as she lay alongside the dock in New
London Harbor, ready to discharge her cargo at the site of Shark Ledge Lighthouse, eight miles
seaward.

On the dock itself, over a wharf post sprawled her owner, old Abram Marrows, a thin, long,
badly put together man, awkward as a stepladder and as rickety, who, after trying everything
from farming to selling a patent churn, had at last become a shipowner, the Susie Ann, comprising
his entire fleet. Marrows had come to see her off; this being the sloop's first trip for the
season.

Lying outside the Susie Ann--her lines fast to an off-shore spile, was the construction tug
of the lighthouse gang, the deck strewn with diving gear, water casks and the like,--all needed
in the furthering of the work at the ledge. On the tug's forward deck, hat off and jacket swinging
loose, stood Captain Joe Bell in charge of the submarine work at the site, glorious old Captain
Joe, with the body of a capstan, legs stiff as wharf posts, arms and hands tough as cant hooks
and heart twice as big as all of them put together.

Each and every piece of stone,--some of them weighed seven tons,--stowed aboard the Susie Ann,
was, when she arrived alongside the foundation of the lighthouse, to be lowered over her side
and sent down to Captain Joe to place in thirty feet of water. This fact made him particular
both as to the kind of vessel engaged and the ability of the skipper. Bad seamanship might
not only endanger the security of the work but his own life as well,--a diver not being as
quick as a crab or blackfish in getting from under a seven-ton stone dropped from tripdogs
at the signal to "lower away."

Captain Joe's inspection of the Susie Ann's skipper was anything but satisfactory, judging
from the way he opened his battery of protest.

"Baxter ain't fittin', I tell ye, Abram Marrows," he exploded. "He ain't fittin' and never
will be. Baxter don't know most nothin'. Set him to grubbin' clams, Abram, but don't let him
fool 'round the Ledge. He'll git the sloop ashore, I tell ye, or drop a stone and hurt somebody.
Go and git a MAN som'ers and put him in charge,--not a half-baked--" here he lowered his muzzle
and fired point-blank at the object of his wrath,--"Yes, and I'll say it to your face, Captain
Baxter. You take my advice and lay off for this v'yage,--it ain't no picnic out to the Ledge.
You ain't seen it since we got the stone 'bove high water. Reg'lar mill tail! You go ashore,
I tell ye,--or ye'll lose the sloop."

Many of the men ranged along the top of the cabin of the tug, or perched on its rail, wondered
at the vehemence of the captain's attack, "Moon-faced Baxter," as he was called, having a fair
reputation as a seaman. They knew, too, that Captain Joe was aware of the condition of Marrows's
affairs, for it had been common talk that the bank had loaned Abram several hundred dollars
with the sloop as security on the captain's own personal inspection. Some of them had even
been present when Mrs. Marrows,--a faded old woman with bleached eyes and a pursed-up mouth,
her shawl hooding her head and pinned close under her chin with her thumb and forefinger,--had
begged Captain Joe to try the Susie Ann for a few loads until Abram could "ketch up," and had
heard his promise to help her.

But they made no protest. Such outbursts on the captain's part were but the escaping steam
from the overcharged boiler of his indignation. Underneath lay the firebox of his heart, chock
full of red-hot coals glowing with sympathy for every soul who needed his help. If his safety
valve let go once in a while it was to escape from greater danger.

His long range ammunition exhausted, Captain Joe turned on his heel and walked aft to where
his diving gear was piled, venting his indignation at every step. This time the outburst was
directed to me,--(it was my weekly inspection at the Ledge).

"Can't jam nothin' into his head, sir. Stubbornest mule 'round this harbor. Warn't for that
wife o' his Abe Marrows would a-been high and dry long ago. Every time he gits something purty
good he goes and fools it away;--sold his farm and bought that sloop; then he clapped a plaster
on it in the bank to start a cook shop. But the wife's all right;--only last week she come
to me lookin' like she'd bu'st out cryin',--sayin' the sloop was all they had, and I promised
her then I'd use the Susie, but she never said nothin' 'bout Baxter being in charge, or I'd
stopped him 'fore he loaded her. Well, there ain't no tellin' what nat'ral born fools like
Abe Marrows'll do, but it's something ornery and criss-cross if Abe Marrows does it. That woman's
worked her fingers off for him, but he'll git her in the poor-house yit,--see if he don't."

Marrows had heard every word of Captain Joe's outburst, but he made no answer except to lift
his thin elbows and spread his fingers in a deprecatory way, as if in protest. Baxter maintained
a dogged silence;--the least said in answer the better. Captain Joe Bell was not a man either
to contradict or oppose;--better let him blow it all out. Both owner and skipper determined
to take the risk. The Susie Ann had been laid up all winter awaiting the opening of the spring
work, and the successful carrying out of the present venture was Marrows's only escape from
financial ruin, and Baxter's only chance of getting his back wages. There was an unpaid bill,
too, for caulking, then a year old, lying in Abram's bureau drawer, together with an account
at Mike Lavin's machine shop for a new set of grate bars, now almost worn out. Worse than all
the bank's lien on the sloop was due in a few weeks. What money the sloop earned, therefore,
must be earned quickly.

And then again, Abram ruminated, Shark Ledge wasn't the worst place on the coast,--despite
Captain Joe's warning,--especially on this particular morning, when a light wind was blowing
off shore. Plenty of other sloops had delivered stone over their rails to the divers below.
Marrows remembered that he had been out to the Ledge himself when the Screamer came up into
the wind and crawled slowly up until her forefoot was within a biscuit toss of the stone pile.

What Marrows forgot was that Captain Bob Brandt of Cape Ann had then held the spokes of the
Screamer's wheel,--a man who knew every twist and turn of the treacherous tide.

So Baxter shook out the sloop's jib and mainsail and started on his journey eight miles seaward,
with orders to make fast on arrival to the spar buoy which lay within a few hundred yards of
the Ledge, and there wait until the tide turned, when she could drop into position to unload.
The tug with all of us on board would follow when we had taken on fresh water and coal.

On the run out Captain Joe watched the sloop until she had made her first tack, then he turned
to his work and again busied himself in overhauling his diving dress; tightening the set-screws
in his copper collar, re-cording his breastplate and putting new leather thongs in his leaden
shoes. There was some stone on the sloop's deck which was needed to complete a level down among
the black fish and torn cod,--twenty-two feet down,--where the sea kelp streamed up in long
blades above the top of his helmet and the rock crabs scurried out of his way. If Baxter didn't
make a "tarnel fool of himself and git into one o' them swirl-holes," he intended to get these
stones into place before night.

He knew these "holes," as he did every other swirl around the ledge and what they could do
and what they couldn't. They were his swirls, really,--for he had placed every individual fragment
of the obstructions that caused them with his own hands, in thirty feet of water.

Some three years before the site had been marked by a spindle bearing an iron cage and fastened
to a huge boulder known as Shark Ledge Rock, and covered at low water. The unloading of various
sloops and schooners under his orders had enlarged this submerged rock to a miniature island,
its ragged crest thrust above the sea. This obstruction to the will of the wind and tide, and
the ever-present six-mile current, caused by the narrowing of Long Island Sound in its onrush
to the sea, acted as a fallen log that blocks a mountain stream, or a boulder that plugs a
torrent. That which for centuries had been a steady "set" every six hours east and west, had
now become a "back-and-in suck" fringed by a series of swirling undercurrents dealing death
and destruction to the ignorant and unwary.

Not been long since a schooner loaded with concrete had been saved from destruction by the
merest chance, and later on a big scow caught in the swirl had parted her buoy lines and would
have landed high and dry on the stone pile had not Captain Joe run a hawser to her, twisted
its bight around the drum of his engine and warped her off just in time to save her bones from
sea worms.

As the tug approached, the Ledge, looming up on the dim horizon line, looked like a huge whale
spouting derricks, a barnacle of a shanty clinging to its back. Soon there rose into relief
the little knot of men gathered about one of the whale's fins--our landing stage,--and then,
as we came alongside, the welcome curl of the smoke, telling of fried pork and saleratus biscuit.

Captain Joe's orders now came thick and fast.

"Hurry dinner, Nichols,"--this to the shanty cook, who was leaning out of the galley window,--"And
here,--three or four o' ye, git this divin' stuff ashore, and then all hands to dinner. The
wind's ag'in Baxter,--he won't git here for an hour. Startin' on one o' them long legs o' his'n
now,"--and the captain's eye rested on the sloop beating up Fisher's Island way.

"And, Billy,--'fore ye go ashore, jump into the yawl and take a look at that snatch block on
the spar buoy,--that clam digger may want it 'fore night."

This spar buoy lay a few hundred yards off the Whale's Snout. Loaded vessels were moored to
this quill bob, held in place by a five-ton sinker, until they were ready to drop into the
eddy and there discharge their stone.

Dinner over the men fell to work, each to his job. The derrick gang was set to shifting a boom
on to the larger derrick, the concrete mixers picked up their shovels, and I went to work on
the pay-roll of the week. This I always figured up in the little dry-goods box of a room opening
out of the galley in the end of our board shanty, its window looking toward Montauk.

As I leaned my arms on the sill for a glimpse of the wide expanse of blue and silver, the cotton
rag that served as a curtain flapped in my face. I pushed it aside and craned my neck north
and south. The curtain had acted as a weather vane,--the wind had hauled to the east.

The sky, too, had dulled. Little lumpy clouds showed near the horizon line, and, sailing above
these, hung a dirt spot of vapor, while aloft glowed some prismatic sundogs, shimmering like
opals. Etched against the distance, with a tether line fastened to the spar buoy, lay the Susie
Ann. She had that moment arrived and had made fast. Her sails were furled, her boom swinging
loose and ready, the smoke from her hoister curling from the end of her smoke pipe thrust up
out of the forward hatch.

Then I looked closer in.

Below me, on the concrete platform, rested our big air pump, and beside it stood Captain Joe.
He had slipped into his diving dress and was at the moment adjusting the breastplates of lead,
weighing twenty-five pounds each, to his chest and back. His leaden shoes were already on his
feet. With the exception of his copper helmet, the signal line around his wrist, and the life
line about his waist, he was ready to go under water.

Pretty soon he would don his helmet, and, with a last word to Jimmy, his tender, would tuck
his chin whisker inside the round opening, wait until the face plate was screwed on, and then,
with a cheerful nod behind the glass, denoting that his air was coming all right, would step
down his rude ladder into the sea,--down,--down,--down to his place among the crabs and the
seaweed.

Suddenly my ears became conscious of a conversation carried on in a low tone around the corner
of the shanty.

"Old Moon-face'll have to git up and git in a minute," said a derrick man to a shoveller,--born
sailors, these,--"there'll be a red-hot time 'round here 'fore night."

"Well, there ain't no wind."

"Ain't no wind,--ain't there? See that bobble waltzin' in?"

I looked seaward, and my eyes rested on a ragged line of silver edging the horizon toward Montauk.

"Does look soapy, don't it?" answered the shoveller. "Wonder if Cap'n Joe sees it."

Cap'n Joe had seen it--fifteen minutes ahead of anybody else,--had been watching it to the
exclusion of any other object. He knew the sea,--knew every move of the merciless, cunning
beast; had watched it many a time, lying in wait for its chance to tear and strangle. More
than once had he held on to the rigging when, with a lash of its tail, it had swept a deck
clean, or had stuck to the pumps for days while it sucked through opening seams the life-blood
of his helpless craft. The game here would be to lift its victim on the back of a smooth under-roller
and with mighty effort hurl it like a battering ram against the shore rocks, shattering its
timbers into drift wood.

"Billy," said Captain Joe to the shoveller, "go down to the edge of the stone pile and holler
to the sloop to cast off and make for home. Hurry, now! And, Jimmy,"--this to his pump tender,--"unhook
this breastplate,--there won't be no divin', today. I've been mistrustin' the wind would haul
ever since I got up this mornin'."

The shoveller sprang from the platform and began clambering over the slippery, slimy rocks
like a crab, his red shirt marked with the white "X" of his suspenders in relief against the
blue water. When he reached the outermost edge of the stone pile, where the ten-ton blocks
lay, he made a megaphone of his fingers and repeated the captain's orders to the Susie Ann.

Baxter listened with his hands cupped to his ears.

"Who says so?" came back the reply.

"Cap'n Joe."

"What fur?"

"Goin' to blow,--don't ye see it?"

Baxter stepped gingerly along the sloop's rail. Obeying the order meant twenty-four hour's
delay in making sure of his wages,--perhaps a week, spring weather being uncertain. He didn't
"see no blow." Besides, if there was one coming, it wasn't his sloop or his stone. When he
reached the foot of the bowsprit Moon-face sent this answer over the water:

"Let her blow and be d--! This sloop's chartered to deliver this stone. We've got steam up
and the stuff's goin' over outside. Get your divers ready. I ain't shovin' no baby carriage
and don't you forgit it. I'm comin' on! Cast off that buoy line, you,"--this to one of his men.

Captain Joe continued stripping off his leaden breastplate. He had heard his order repeated
and knew that it had been given correctly,--Baxter's subsequent proceedings did not interest
him. If he had anything to say in answer it was of no moment to him. His word was law on the
Ledge; first, because the men daily trusted their lives to his guidance, and, second, because
they all loved him with a love hard for a landsman to understand, especially today, when the
boss and the gang never, by any possibility, pull together.

"Baxter says he's comin' on, sir," said Billy, when he reached the captain's side, the grin
on his sunburnt face widening until its two ends hooked over his ears. Billy had heard nothing
so funny for weeks.

"Comin' on?"

"That's what he hollered. Wants you to git ready to take his stuff, sir."

I was out of the shanty now. I came in two jumps. With that squall rushing from the eastward
and the tide making flood, any man who would leave the protection of the spar buoy for the
purpose of unloading was fit for a lunatic asylum.

Captain Joe had straightened up and was screening his eyes with his hand when I reached his
side, his gaze rivetted on the loosened sloop, which had now hauled in her tether line and
was drifting clear of the buoy. The captain was still incredulous.

"No, he ain't comin'," he said to me. "He's all right,--he'll port his helm in a minute,--but
he'd better send up his jib"--and he swept his eye around,--"and that quick, too."

At this instant the sloop wavered and lurched heavily. The outer edge of the insuck had caught
her bow.

Men's minds work quickly in times of great danger,--minds like Captain Joe's. In a flash he
had taken in the fast-approaching roller, froth-capped by the sudden squall; the surging vessel
and the scared face of Baxter, who, having realized his mistake was now clutching wildly at
the tiller and shouting orders to his men, none of which could be carried out. Captain Joe
knew what would happen,--what had happened before, and what would happen again with fools like
Baxter,--now,--in a minute,--before he could reach the edge of the stone pile, hampered as
he was in a rubber suit that bound his arms and tied his great legs together. And he understood
too the sea's game, and that the only way to outwit it would be to use the beast's own tactics.
When it gathered itself for the thrust and started in to hurl the doomed vessel the full length
of its mighty arms, the sloop's only safety lay in widening the space. A cushion of backwater
would then receive the sloop's forefoot in place of the snarling teeth of low crunching rocks.

He had kicked off both shoes by this time and was shouting out directions to Baxter, who was
slowly and surely being sucked into the swirl:--

"Up with your jib! No,--NO! Let that mainsail alone! UP! Do ye want to git her on the stone
pile, you? Port your helm! PORT! O GOD!--Look at him!!"

Captain Joe had slid from the platform now and was flopping his great body over the slimy,
slippery rocks like a seal, falling into water holes every other step, crawling out on his
belly, rolling from one slanting stone to another, shouting to his men, every time he had the
breath:--

"Man that yawl and run a line as quick as God'll let ye--out to the buoy! Do ye hear? Pull
that fall off the drum of the h'ister and git the end of a line on it! She'll be on top of
us in a minute and the mast out of her! QUICK!"

Jimmy sprang for a coil of rope; Billy and the others threw themselves after him; while half
a dozen men working around the small eddy in the lee of the diminutive island caught up the
oars and made a dash for the yawl.

All this time the sloop, under the uplift of the first big Montauk roller,--the skirmish line
of the attack,--surged, bow on, to destruction. Baxter, although shaking with fear, had sense
enough left to keep her nose pointed to the stone pile. The mast might come out of her, but
that was better than being gashed amidships and sunk in thirty feet of water.

Captain Joe, his rubber suit wet and glistening as a shiny porpoise, his hair matted to his
head, had now reached the outermost rock opposite the doomed craft, and stood near enough to
catch every expression that crossed Baxter's face, who, white as chalk, was holding the tiller
with all his strength, cap off, his blousy hair flying in the increasing gale, his mouth tight
shut. Go ashore she must. It would be every man for himself then. No help would come,--no help
COULD come. Captain Joe and his men would run for shelter as soon as the blow fell, and leave
them to their fate. Men like Baxter are built to think this way.

All these minutes--seconds, really,--Captain Joe stood bending forward, watching where the
sloop would strike, his hands outstretched in the attitude of a ball-player awaiting a ball.
If her nose should hit the sharp, square edges of one of the ten-ton blocks, God help her!
She would split wide open like a melon. If by any chance her forefoot should be thrust into
one of the many gaps between the enrockment blocks,--spaces from two to three feet wide,--and
her bow timbers thus take the shock, there was a living chance to save her.

A cry from Baxter, who had dropped the tiller and was scrambling over the stone-covered deck
to the bowsprit, reached the captain's ears, but he never altered his position. What he was
to do must be done surely. Baxter didn't count,--wasn't in the back of his head. There were
plenty of willing hands to pick up Baxter and his men.

Then a thing happened which, if I had not seen it, I would never have believed possible. The
water cushion of the outsuck helped,--so did the huge roller which, in its blind rage, had
underestimated the distance between its lift and the wide-open jaws of the rock,--as a maddened
bull often underestimates the length of its thrust, its horns falling short of the matador.

Whatever the cause, Captain Joe watched his chance, sprang to the outermost rock, and, bracing
his great snubbing posts of legs against its edge, reversed his body, caught the wavering sloop
on his broad shoulders, close under her bowsprit chains, and pushed back with all his might.

Then began a struggle between the strength of the man and the lunge of the sea. With every
succeeding onslaught, and before the savage roller could fully lift the staggering craft to
hurl her to destruction, Captain Joe, with the help of the outsuck, would shove her back from
the waiting rocks. This was repeated again and again,--the men in the rescuing yawl meanwhile
bending every muscle to carry out the captain's commands.

Sometimes his head was free enough to shout his orders, and sometimes both man and bow were
smothered in suds.

"Keep that fall clear!" would come his order "Stand ready to catch the yawl! Shut that--" here
a souse would stop his breath,--"shut that furnace door! Do ye want the steam out of the b'iler?"--etc.,
etc.

That the slightest misstep on the slimy rocks on which his feet were braced meant sending him
under the sloop's bow where he would be caught between her forefoot and the rocks and ground
into pulp concerned him as little as did the fact that Baxter and his men had crawled along
the bowsprit over his head and had dropped to the island without wetting their shoes. That
his diving suit was full of water and he soaking wet to the skin, made not the slightest difference
to him--no more than it would to a Newfoundland dog saving a child. His thoughts were on other
things,--on the rescuing yawl speeding toward the spar buoy, on the stout hands and knowing
ones who were pulling for all they were worth to that anchor of safety;--on two of his own
men who, seeing Baxter's cowardly desertion, had sprung like cats at the bowsprit of the sloop
in one of her dives, and were then on the stern ready to pay out a line to the yawl when she
reached the goal. No,--he'd hold on "till hell froze over."

A hawser now ripped itself clear from out the crest of a roller. This meant that the two cats,
despite the increasing gale and thrash of the onrushing sea had succeeded in paying out a stern
line to the men in the yawl, who had slipped it through the snatch block fastened in the buoy.
It meant, too, that this line had been connected with the line they had brought with them from
the island, its far end being around the drum of our hoister.

A shrill cry now came from one of the crew in the yawl alongside the spar buoy, followed instantly
by the clear, ringing order, "GO AHEAD!"

Now a burst of feathery steam plumed skyward, and then the slow "chuggity-chug" of our drum
cogs rose in the air. The stern line straightened until it was as rigid as a bar of iron, sagged
for an instant under the slump of the staggering sloop, straightened again, and remained rigid.
The sloop, held by the stern line, crept slowly back to safety.

Captain Joe looked over his shoulder, noted the widening distance, and leaped back to the inshore
rocks.

Late that afternoon, when the tug, with Captain Joe and me on board, reached the tug's moorings
in New London harbor, the dock was crowded with anxious faces,--Abram Marrows and his wife
among them. It had been an anxious day along the shore road. The squall, which had blown for
half an hour and had then slunk away toward Little Gull, grumbling as it went, had sent everything
that could seek shelter bowling into New London Harbor under close reefs. It had also started
Marrows and his wife on a run to the dock, where they had stood for hours straining their eyes
seaward, each incoming vessel, as she swooped past the dock into the inner basin, adding to
their anxiety.

"Wouldn't give a keg o' sp'ilt fish for her. Ain't a livin' chance o' savin' her," had bellowed
the captain of a fishing smack, as he swept by, within biscuit-toss of the dock, his boom submerged,
the water curling over the rail.

"She went slap ag'in them chunks o' cut stone!" shouted the mate of a tug through the window
of a pilot house.

"Got her off with her bow split open, but they can't keep her free! Sunk by now, I guess,"
had yelled one of the crew of a dory making for the shipyard.

As each bulletin was shouted back over the water in answer to the anxious inquiries of Marrows,
the wife would clasp her fingers the tighter. She made no moan or outburst. Abram would blame
her and say it was her fault,--everything was her fault that went wrong.

When the tug had made fast to a wharf spile Captain Joe cleared the stringpiece, and walked
straight to Marrows. He was still soaking wet underneath his clothes, only his outer garments
being dry,--a condition which never affected him in the least, "salt water bein' healthy,"
he would say.

"What did I tell ye, Abram Marrows?" he exploded, in a voice that could be heard to the turnpike.
"Didn't I say Baxter warn't fittin', and that he ought ter be grubbin' clams? Go and dig a
hole some'er's and cover him up head and ears,--and dig it quick, too, and I'll lend ye a shovel."

"Well, but, Captain Joe,"--protested Marrows.

"Don't you 'well' me. Well, nothin'. You're bad as him. Go and dig a hole and BOTH on ye git
in it!"--and he pushed through the crowd on his way to his house, I close at his heels. Left to their thoughts and sliding fingers through her red curls,
let the girl untie all their talk.

- I do not have it, Mom - Carolina said finally after changing one or two position.

- Well, how should I have you? - Mom asked, laughing between fun and
bothered.

- So - Carolina said, and twisting his arm around the neck
of the lady of Galba and rested cheek on her bosom .-- In this way,
right?

Curl up again, acurrucose like a kitten, he closed his eyes and fell asleep.

For a while, she remained silent in that position, just daring breathing, and then was because of
some hidden sympathy born of contact, or God knows why certain thoughts began to shake. He remembered
an old pain that had settled out of her memory for years, recalled days of sickness and distrust
days of stabbing terror by something that should help ... and avoided with horror and grief mortal
thought of a being that could have been ... She also had a child of age Carolina. The arms indifferent
gathered around the sleeping child, began to tremble and shake it convulsively. And then,
with a deep impulse, powerful burst into tears, and pulled her to her bosom the girl again and
again, as if to replace to which there had once saved.

Thus, the storm that shook passed disposing in a copious tears.

Some tears fell on the curls of Carolina, which moved uneasily in his sleep. But again reassured.
It was so easy to do then! and remained so quiet and lonely they seemed part of the solitary and
silent home.

However, as in the latter, cheerfully lit by the rays of the sun, the appearance of loneliness
and abandonment not carrying the decline, despair and neglect.

At the hotel in Fiddletown, Colonel Robert waited in vain all night,
and morning Next, when Mr. Galba returned home, found it empty, uninhabited
and without trace of the previous day's drama.

II

To be news that Galba lady definitely had fled, taking the daughter her husband, was moved around
Fiddletown, raised about the case differences of opinion. The News of Dutch Flat, openly alluded to the
"violent abduction" of the girl with the same boldness and severity with which he had criticized the
productions of the poet. The public sex Lady Clara, and a fraction of the opposite sex, made, however,
persons of little character, adopted the view of this newspaper. But most people do not act consequences
deduced moral enough for them to know that the abductor had shaken their dainty slippers the
red Fiddletown dust, mourned his loss rather than the crime. Soon ignore Galba, the injured
husband and disconsolate father, and questioned the sincerity of
her grief; But save your sympathy for Colonel comic Roberto, overwhelming
the man, man excellent, with unseasonable sympathy expressed in the
taverns, lounges and other public no less inappropriate places for
demonstrations of such genre.

- Colonel, was always fickle woman
- said a sympathetic friend, with affected interest and plaintive
tone - and it is natural that one day the animal has escaped from
her husband, but I leave you, Colonel, you really have mocked, this
is what I can not finish.

And go around saying that you were hanging around the hotel all night, and walked by those corridors
and up and down the stairs, and like a lost soul that wandered square, and all this in vain!

Another friend, not less generous and compassionate, again poured balm on the wounds of the
disappointed lover.

- Imagine that such outspoken out there claim that the lady got from you charged at her suitcase
and girls from the house to the office of diligence, and that the lover who left her thanked
him, giving him some money and take care the first time because he liked his treatment ... "Of
course, that this will be a gross invention? Sure, I will know I answer those juzgamundos. Glad
to have met you, runs for lying is a blessing.

But fortunately for the reputation of Lady Clara, the Chinaman of her husband, the only witness
Eye of the leak, said that only went with the girl. He added that, obeying their orders, had to stop
the taking of Sacramento and seat adjusted both to San Francisco. The truth is that the testimony
of Ah-Fe was in no legal value, but nobody put blemish.

Even those who doubted the veracity pagan, recognized in this case the most disinterested indifference
by the Chinese. And yet, judging from a passage hitherto unknown of this Chronic true, were
wrong from medium to medium.

About six months had elapsed since the disappearance of the beautiful heroine. The Chinese worked
one day, as usual, in the field of Galba, when two miners that his countrymen equipped with long
poles passed and baskets, they called it. Lively conversation ensued Ah Fe and his brothers
Mongols, one of those conversations characteristics similar to precipitates row over its screaming,
that delight and provoke the scorn of European smart, they do not understand a word of those
speculations. Thus at least judged their pagan gibberish Mr. Galba, from his viewpoint and
Colonel Roberto that happened to pass. The latter removed them plainly of their way to a kick,
Galba and angry, with an oath, threw a stone at the group and walked away, but not before
that they had exchanged one or two strips of yellow rice paper with hieroglyphs and into the
hands of Ah-Fe a small package. Abriola Ah-Fe in the solitude of her kitchen and found child apron,
freshly washed and ironed. Carried in the hem angle the initial CT Chinese hid him in a fold
of her shirt, and continued washing his dishes in the sink with a candid smile of contentment.

A
few days later, Ah-Fe was presented to his master.

- I do not like Fiddletown, I really sick. I go.

Galba sent him to the devil.

Ah-Fe and retired quietly watched him determined to put implement its purpose.

However, before leaving Fiddletown she met by chance Colonel Roberto
and they escaped some incoherent phrases that interested the military.

When he finished, Colonel gave him a letter and a heavy gold coin.

-
If I will double this brings an answer: Can you understand, Ah-Fe?

Nodded. Another meeting took place between Ah Fe and another gentleman, young editor of The
Avalanche, also casual interview with the same result. However, I feel myself obliged to say
that the set out, Ah-Fe broke quietly hallmark of both letters, and then trying to read upside
down and sideways, finally divided them finely chopped, diced, and sold them in that provision
for a trifle to a yellow brother who stumbled on her way. Described is not for the sorrow of Colonel
Roberto to discover in the white face of these squares, which came to him with the linen of
the week, the account of his laundry, and to acquire the belief that the remaining pieces
of the letter circulated by the same method among clients Fiddletown Chinese laundry. However, I
have the firm belief that this breach of trust served punishment
found in the difficulties that accompanied the pilgrimage of Ah-Fe.

Speaking to Sacramento, was twice thrown Cow diligence below, a Caucasian civilization, but drunk
as could be, who the company of a smoker opium to the quick wounded dignity. At Hangtown, a
passerby will give a simple helmet evidence of white supremacy. In Dutch Flat stolen for reasons
well known hands also unknown. In Sacramento he was arrested on suspicion of being this or
that and put it released after a severe reprimand, probably because I was not looking and thus hindered
the course of the proceedings. In San Francisco, stoned children in public schools, but carefully
avoiding these temples of illustration and progress, finally reached the relative safety in
Chinatowns, where abuses against him were at least enrolled in the police and face books almost
always the deserved punishment.

Without loss of time managed to enter the laundry-Chy Fook as an assistant, and Friday Next he
was sent with a basket of clean laundry to the various customers of the company.

It was one of those afternoons when fog, one of those days faded, gray, that challenge the
Summer name to anyone, except for the exalted imagination of citizens San Francisco. Ah-Fe climbed
the long hill on California Street, swept wind did not feel temperature or make out the color
on earth or in heaven; or light shade outdoors or inside buildings, only if a dye gray, drab,
universal, that hung everywhere. A feverish excitement reigned in the streets swept by the wind,
and houses a profound stillness reigned. When the Chinese had reached the top of the hill, the
Mission Hill and hid his eyes and the cool breeze Tues gave him chills. Descargose of his basket
to rest. Probably for limited intelligence and from the pagan point of view, the "climate
of God", as we call it, not provided with the sweetness, gentleness and mercy that are attributed.
Perhaps the good son Sky illogically confounded the rigors of the season with their persecutors,
children in schools, free instruction at this time of closure, were much more bold and daring.
So hastily went his way, and turning a corner Finally he stopped
before a house and entered it resolutely.

Preceded the house in question to a petty planting of shrubs, with front terrace, above it was an ugly
balcony that perhaps had not been used in life. Ah-Fe rang the bell, a servant appeared, glanced
at the basket and reluctantly admitted like a pet, annoying but necessary.

Ah-Fe rose silently the stairs, he went into the front room, left the basket and waited in the
doorway.

A woman sitting at the cool window light grayish, with a girl in the skirt, rose with indifference
and went to the visitor. Immediately recognized Ah, Mrs. Faith Galba, but did not change even
one muscle in his face, nor his oblique eyes encouraged the found
peacefully with his former mistress.

Obviously, she did not recognize him because he started to count
the pieces of clothing she wore.

But the girl, examining it with curiosity, uttered suddenly a sudden cry of joy:

- But Mom, if John! Do not you know? Is the Chinese we had in Fiddletown.

Hurtful

eyes Ah-Fe shone for a moment with electric shock.

The girl slapped and grabbed his clothing. The Chinese said:

- Yo, John, Ah-Fe, all is one. I know you. How's it going?

Galba Mrs. dropped in horror Miron clothing and steadily.

As there was for him the affection that stoked the perception of Carolina,
could not distinguish even their peers.

At one point recalled the last sentence, and dim suspicion of danger
imminent, asked when he had left his master's house.

- Oh, long time!

I do not like Fiddletown.

Tlevelick dislike. San Flisco like. Like washing. Like Carolina.

Mrs. pleased Galba the brevity of Ah-Fe, so I did not stop to think about it influence he had
on his good intention and sincerity the imperfect knowledge of the
language Shakespeare.

But he said:

- I request not to tell anyone that I have seen.

And he took his alms.

The Chinese, without looking at him, saw that it was nearly empty,
without scanning the room, noted that it was poorly furnished, and
without removing his gaze from the ceiling, he noticed that the lady
and wore Carolina with the greatest poverty.

However, I must confess that the long fingers pressed to Ah-Fe half a dollar sign that it
handed him.

Then began to search the folds of her blouse through strange contortions
and grimaces.

After a few moments, he pulled from God knows where a child apron, which he placed on the basket,
saying

- Forgetting a laundry room.

And started again for registration.

Finally, success crowned their efforts apparently, took his right
ear a piece of tissue paper rolled patiently.

Carefully unrolled, finally discovered two gold coins of twenty dollars, which handed the lady
of Galba.

- Leave your money on bluló [14] Fiddletown, I find coins. I bring to you shortly.

- But I do not any money left over Boureau, John! - Said presented with sincere amazement. There
must be wrong. Will of another person. Take it, John.

Ah-Fe was troubled for a moment. He took his hand to Madame de Galba proffered money and moved
quickly to pick up their stuff.

- No, no, I did not return. No. Then take me a policeman [15]. I know: God damn thief take forty
dollars, to jail. I do not return. You leave money up bluló Fiddletown. I bring money. I do
not carry cash again.

Lady Clara doubted that in their headlong flight had left the money as he said, but either way
it was, had no right to endanger the safety of this Chinese honored by refusing, so he said:

-
Okay, John. I will stay with him, but you have to see me again.

Lady Clara hesitated. For the first time it happened that a man could wish to see another but her.

-
To me, y. .. Carolina!

The Ah-Fe face brightened. Even uttered a short laugh ventriloquist without moving a only facial
muscle.

Then, throwing the basket on his shoulder, carefully closed the door and slipped quietly up
the stairs. However, the output, a difficulty encountered unexpectedly when you open the door,
and after struggling a moment in the door in vain, looked around as if waiting for who would
take out of trouble. But the Irish barmaid had facilitated the entry, did not deign to appear. He
then spent a mysterious incident and sensitive, I will relate just effortlessly to give an
explanation. On the table the entrance was a silk handkerchief, property without doubt the
maid to whom I referred. While Ah-Fe tempted the bolt with one hand lightly resting his free on the
table. Suddenly, and seemingly spontaneous impulse, the tissue began to slide gradually toward
the hand of Chinese. From the hand of Ah-Fe, went inside his sleeve, slowly and with a slow
movement, like the serpent, and disappeared in some of the folds of his robe. Without showing the
slightest interest in this phenomenon, Ah-Fe yet their repeated attempts over the bolt. Soon after,
the red damask rug, moved perhaps by the same mysterious impulse, slowly gathered it under the
fingers of Ah-Fe and gently undulating disappeared by the same hidden
path.

What other mysteries could have followed? This would not be easy to find, because at that moment
Ah Fe discovered the secret bolt and could open the door, coinciding with the sound of footsteps
could be heard in ladder. The Chinese do not hastened his departure, but slowly loading the
basket closed the door carefully behind him, and into the thick impenetrable fog that hung down
the street.

Reclined in the window, saw the figure of Lady Clara
Ah-Fe until he disappeared into the thick fog. In his plight he felt
deep gratitude, and perhaps Lady Clara as always, poetic and sensitive,
attributed to deep emotions and conscience satisfied a good deed,
cupping the breast of the Chinese that it was actually due to the
presence the scarf and the mat under your clothing. Then, and as the
night, gray fog became more dense, Galba Mrs. Caroline shook against
his chest. Leaving the talk of the creature, ensued between emotional
memories and selfish considerations at once bitter and dangerous.
The sudden appearance of Ah-Fe had re-united with Fiddletown his past
life, the path traveled since those days was useless and sad strewn
with thorns, full of thorns and difficulties and insurmountable obstacles.
Nothing strange was therefore Carolina finally ceased suddenly in
the middle of their childish confidences to throw his arms around
the neck of the poor woman, and begged him not to cry because it was
sad.

Heaven preserve me to use a pen, you should always engage early
exposure unalterable moral, in transcribing the specious theories
about this time Lady Clara and defended his conduct that sophistical
apologies, illogical deductions, tender apology and weak palliative.
In truth, the circumstances were very cruel, quickly depleted their
low flow. Then a yell came from the boat below that one of the
old women was missing: it was her sister. One half-crazy man said she'd jumped overboard--he
was crowdin' up to the rail and didn't want to stop for anything--and another said she had
gone off in the first boat, which I knew was a lie.

"'Have you sent them both down?' asked Captain Bogart.

"'No, sir; only one,' I said--and I hadn't.

"Just then a steward stepped up with a bundle of clothing in his hand.

"'I tried to get her out, but she'd locked herself in the stateroom, sir. It was all afire
when I come up.'

"It took about two seconds for Captain Bogart to jump clear of the crowd, run half the length
of the deck and plunge through the door leadin' to the main deck, the dog boundin' after him.

"I've been through a good many anxious minutes in my life, but those were the worst I'd had
up to date. He and I had been pretty close ever since I went to sea. He's ten years older than
I am, but he gave me my first chance. Yes; that kind of thing takes the heart out of you, and
they were both in it. Hadn't been for the dog we wouldn't have missed her, maybe, although
the captain was keeping tally of the passengers and crew.

"Three minutes, they said it was--more like three hours to me--I held the crowd back, wondering
how long I ought to wait if he didn't come up, knowing my duty was to stay where I was, when
the dog sprang out of the door, half his hair singed off him, barkin' and jumpin' as if he
had been let out for a romp; and then came the captain staggerin' along, his face scorched,
his coat half burned off him, the woman in his arms in a dead faint and pretty nigh smothered.
The old fool had locked herself in her stateroom--he had to break down the door to get at her--cryin'
she'd rather die there than be separated from her sister.

"We made room for the two--the half-crazy man fallin' back--and the captain lowered her himself
into the boat alongside her sister, and then he sent me down the ladder behind her to catch
the others when they came down and see that everything was ready to cast off.

"I could see the captain now from my position in the boat, up against the sky--he was the last
man on the ship--holding the dog close to him. Once I thought he was going to bring him down
in his arms, he held him so tight.

"Next time I looked he was coming down the ladder slowly, one foot at a time, the dog looking
down at him, his big, human eyes peering into the captain's face, his long, pointed nose thrust
out, his ears bent forward. If he could have spoken--and he looked as if he was speaking--he
would be telling him how glad he felt at savin' the old woman, and how happy he was that they'd
all three got clear. My own collie used to talk to me like that--had a kind of low whine when
he'd get that way; tell me about his sheep stuck in the snow, and the way the--"

The first officer stopped, cleared his throat, shook the ashes from his pipe and laid it on
the table. After a while he went on. His words came slower now, as if they hurt him.

"When the captain got half-way down the ladder I saw him stand still for a moment and look
straight tip into the dog's eyes. Then I heard him say:

"'Down, Bayard! Stay where you are.'

"The dog crouched and lay with his paws on the edge of the rail. That's what he'd done all
his life--just obeyed orders without question. Again I saw the captain stop. This time he slipped
his hand into his side-pocket, half drew out his revolver, put it back again, and kept on his
way down the ladder to the boat.

"Then the captain's order rang out:

"'Get ready to shove off!'

"Hardly had the words left his lips when there came another dull, muffled roar, and a sheet
of flame licked the whole length of the deck. Then she fell over on her beam.

"'My God!' I cried; 'left that dog to die!'"

For a moment the first officer did not answer. Then he raised his eyes to mine and said in
a voice full of emotion:

"Yes; there was nothin' else to do. It's against orders to take animals into life-boats. They
take room and must be fed, and we hadn't a foot of space or an ounce of grub and water to spare,
and we had two hundred miles to go. I begged the captain. 'I'll give Bayard my place,' I said.
I knew he was right; but I couldn't help it. 'Let me go back and get him.' I know now it would
have been foolish; but I'd have done it all the same. So would you, maybe, if you'd known that
dog and seen his trusting eyes lookin' out of his scorched face and remembered what he'd just done.

"The captain never looked at me when he answered. He couldn't; his eyes were too full.

"'Your place is where you are, sir,' he said, short and crisp. 'Shove off, men.'

"He will never get over it. That dog stood for the girl he'd lost, somehow. That's the captain's
bell. I'm wanted on the bridge. Good-night."

Again the cabin door swung free, letting in a blast of raw ice-house air, the kind that chills
you to the bone. The gale had increased. Through the opening I could hear the combers sweeping
the bow and the down-swash of the overflow striking the deck below.

With the outside roar came the captain, his tarpaulins glistening with spray, his cap pulled
tight down to his ears, his storm-beaten face ruddy with the dash and cut of the wind. He looked
like a sea Titan that had stepped aboard from the crest of a wave.

If he saw me--I was stretched out on the sofa by this time--he gave no sign. Opening his tarpaulins
and thrashing the water from his cap, he walked straight to the cage, peered in, and said softly:

"Ah, my little man! Asleep, are you? I just came down to take a look at the chart and see how
you were getting on. We're having some weather on the bridge."

MUGGLES'S SUPREME MOMENT

I

A most estimable young man was Muggles: a clean-shaven, spick-and-span, well-mannered young
man--particular as to the brushing of his hat, the tying of his scarf and the cut of his clothes;
more than particular as to their puttings-on and puttings-off--sack-coat and derby for mornings;
top hat and frock for afternoons; bobtail and black tie for stags, and full regalia of white
choker, white waistcoat and swallowtail for smart dinners and the opera.

He knew, too, all the little niceties of social life--which arm to give to his hostess in escorting
her out to dinner; on which side of a hansom to place a lady; the proper hours for calling;
the correct thing in canes, umbrellas, stick-pins and cigar-cases; the way to balance a cup
of afternoon tea on one knee while he toyed with a lettuce sandwich teetering on the other--all
the delicate observances so vital to the initiated and so unimportant to the untutored and
ignorant. Then Muggles was a kind and considerate young man--extremely kind and intrusively
considerate; always interesting himself in everybody's affairs and taking no end of trouble
to straighten them out whether importuned or not--and he seldom was.

This idiosyncrasy had gained for him during his college days the title of "Mixey." This in
succeeding years had been merged into "Muddles" and finally to "Muggles," as being more euphonious
and less insulting. Of late among his intimates he had been known as "The Goat," due to his
constant habit of butting in at any and all times, a sobriquet which clings to him to this day.

His real name--the one he inherited from his progenitors and now borne by his family--was one
that stood high in the fashionable world: a family that answered to the more dignified and
aristocratic patronymic of Maxwell--a name dating back to the time of Cromwell, with direct
lineage from the Earl of Clanworthy--john, Duke of Essex, Lord Beverston--that sort of lineage.
No one of the later Maxwells, it is true, had ever been able to fill the gap of a hundred years
or more between the Clanworthys and the Maxwells, but a little thing like that never made any
difference to Muggles or his immediate connections. Was not the family note-paper emblazoned
with the counterfeit presentment of a Stork Rampant caught by the legs and flopping its wings
over a flattened fish-basket; and did not Muggles's cigarette-case, cuff-buttons and seal ring
bear a similar design? And the wooden mantel in the great locked library, and which was opened
and dusted twice a year--the books, not the mantel--did it not support a life-sized portrait
of the family bird done in wood, with three diminutive storklets clamoring to be fed, their
open mouths out-thrust between their mother's breast and the top edge of the fish-basket, enwreathed
by a more than graceful ribbon bearing the inscription, "We feed the hungry"--or words to that
effect?

None of these evidences of wealth and ancestry, it must be said, ever impressed the group of
scoffers gathered about the wood fire of the "Ivy" in his college days, or about the smart
tables at the "Magnolia Club" in his post-graduate life. To them he was still "Mixey," or "Muddles,"
or "Muggles," or "The Goat," depending entirely upon the peculiar circumstances connected with
the mixing up or the butting in.

To his credit be it said the descendant of earls and high-daddies never lost his temper at
these onslaughts. If Bender, or Podvine, or little Billy Salters pitched into him for some
act of stupidity--due entirely to his misguided efforts to serve some mutual friend--Muggles
would argue, defend and protest, but the discussion would always end with a laugh and his signing
the waiter's check and ordering another one for everybody.

"Why the devil, Muggles, did you insist last night on that Boston girl's riding home from the
theatre in the omnibus, you goat?" thundered Podvine one morning at the club, "instead of letting
her--"

"My dear fellow," protested Muggles, "it was much more comfortable in the omnibus, and--"

"--And broke up her walk home with Bobby, you idiot! He had to take the owl train home, and
she won't see him for a month. Didn't you know they were engaged?"

"No--"

"Of course you didn't, Muggles, but you could have seen it in her face if you'd looked. You
always put your foot in it clean up to your pants' pocket!"

"You've been at it again, have you, Muggles?" burst out Bender that same night "Listen to the
Goat's last, boys. Jerry wanted to buy that swamp meadow next his place on Long Island and
had been dickering with the old fellow who owns it all winter, telling him it would be a good
place to raise cranberries if it was dug out and drained, and they had almost agreed on the
price--about twice what it was worth--when down goes Muggles to spend the night and Jerry blabs
it all out, and just why he wanted it, and the next morning Muggles, to clinch the deal and
help Jerry, slips over to the hayseed and tells him how the Sunnybrook Club are going to buy
Jerry's place, and how they wanted the swamp for a hatchery--all true--and that the hayseed
oughtn't to wait a moment, but send word by HIM that the deal was closed, because the club-house
being near by would make all the rest of his land twice as valuable; and the old Skeezicks
winked his eye and shifted his tobacco and said he'd think about it, and now you can't buy
that sink-hole for twenty times what it's worth, and the Sunnybrook is looking for another
site nearer Woodvale. Regular clown you are, Muggles. Exactly like that fellow at the circus
who holds up one end of the tent and then, before the supes can reach it, drops it for the
other end."

When the results of this last well-intentioned effort with its disastrous consequences became
clear to the Goat, that spotless gentleman leaned back in his chair, threw hick his shoulders,
shot out his cuffs, readjusted his scarfpin and replied in an offended tone:

"All owing, my dear fellow, to the stupidity of the agricultural class. I told the farmer he
would regret it, and he will. As for myself, I was awfully disappointed. I had planned to run
all the way back to Jerry's and tell him the good news before he went to sleep that night, and--"

"Disappointed, were you? How do you think Jerry felt? Made a lot of difference to him, I tell
you, not selling his place to the club. Been a whole year working it up. It's smothered now
under a blanket--about ninety per cent of its value--and the Sunnybrook scheme would have pulled
him out with a margin! Now it's deader than last year's shad. What the club wanted was a hatchery
built over a spring, and that's why that swamp was necessary to the deal. Oh, you're the limit,
Muggles!"

It was while smarting under these criticisms that the steward one morning in June brought him
his letters. One was from Monteith--Class of '9l--a senior when Muggles was a freshman--and
was postmarked "Wabacog, Canada," where Monteith owned a lumber mill--and where he ran it himself
and everything connected with it from stumpage to scantling. "There is a broad stream that
runs into the lake, ... and above the mill there are bass weighing ten pounds, ... and back
in the primeval forest bears, ... and now and then a moose--" So ran the letter. Muggles had
spread it wide open by this time and was reading it aloud--everybody knowing Monteith--and
the group never having any secrets of this kind from each other.

"Come up, old chap," the letter continued, "and stay a week--two, if you can work it--and bring
Bender, and little Billy and Poddy, and three or four more. The bungalow holds ten. Wire when--I'm
now putting things on ice."

Muggles looked around the circle and sent interrogatory Marconigrams with his eyebrows. In
response Podvine said he'd go, and so did Billy Salters. Bender thought he could come a day
or two later--the earning of their daily bread was not an absorbing task with these young gentlemen--their
fathers had done that years before.

Muggles ran over in his mind the list of his engagements: he was due at Gravesend on the tenth
for a week, to play golf; at his aunt's country-seat in Westchester on the eleventh for the
same length of time, and on the twelfth he was expected to meet a yacht at Cold Spring Harbor
for a cruise up the coast. He had accepted these invitations and had fully intended to keep
each and every one. Monteith's letter, however, seemed to come at a time when he really needed
a more virile and bracing life than was offered by the others. Here was a chance to redeem
his reputation. Lumber camps meant big men doing big things--things reeking with danger, such
as falling trees, forest fires and log jams. There might also be hair-breadth escapes in the
hunting of big game and the tramping of the vast wilderness. This dressing three times a day
and spending the intermediate hours hitting wooden balls, or lounging in a straw chair under
a deck awning, had become tiresome. What he needed was to get down to Nature and hug the sod,
and if there wasn't any sod then he would grapple with whatever took its place.

Muggles dropped his legs to the floor, straightened his back, beckoned to a servant, motioned
for a telegraph blank--exertion is tabooed at the Magnolia--untelescoped a gold pencil hooked
to his watch-chain and wrote as follows:

"Thanks. Coming Tuesday."

II

Wabacog covers a shaved place in a primeval forest which slopes to a lake of the same name.
Covering this bare spot are huge piles of sawed lumber--Monteith's axe-razors did the shaving--surrounding
an enormous mill surmounted by a smokestack of wrought iron topped with a bird-cage spark arrester,
the whole flanked by a runway emerging from the lake, up which climb in mournful procession
the stately bodies of fallen monarchs awaiting the cutting irony of the saw. Farther along,
on another clearing, stands a square building labelled "Office," and still farther on, guarded
by sentinel trees and encircled by wide piazzas, sprawls a low-roofed bungalow, its main entrance
level with a boardwalk ending in the lake. This was Monteith's home. Here during the winter's
logging he housed himself in complete seclusion, and here in summer he kept open house for
whoever would answer in person his welcoming letters.

Anything so rude and primeval, or so comforting and inviting, was beyond the experience of
Muggles and his friends. This became apparent before they had shed their coats and unpacked
their bags. There was a darky who answered to the name of Jackson who could not only crisp
trout to a turn, but who could compound cocktails, rub down muscular backs shivering from morning
plunges in the lake, make beds, clean guns, wait on the table, and in an emergency row a canoe.
There were easy chairs and low-pitched divans overspread with Turkey rugs and heaped with piles
of silk cushions; there were wooden lockers, all open, and each one filled with drinkables
and smokables--drinkables with white labels, and smokables six inches long with cuffs halfway
down their length; there was an ice-chest sampling a larger house in the rear; there was a
big, wide, all-embracing fireplace that burst its sides laughing over the good time it was
having (the air was cool at night), and outside, redolent with perfume and glistening in the
sunshine, there was a bed of mint protected by a curbing of plank which rivalled in its sweet
freshness those covering the last resting-places of the most hospitable of Virginians.

And there was Monteith!

Some men are born rich; some inherit a pair of scissors fitted to strong thumbs and forefingers,
some have to lie awake nights wondering what they will do next to help their surplus run to
waste, and some pass sleepless hours devising plans by which they can catch in their empty
pockets the clippings and drippings of all three. Muggles's host was none of these. What he
possessed he had worked for--early, late and all the time. His father had stood by and seen
the old homestead in his native Southern State topple into ashes, Only the gaunt chimney left;
the son had worked his way through college, and then with diploma in one hand and his courage
in the other--all he owned--had shaken the dust of civilization from his shoes and had struck
out for the Northern wilds: Wabacog was the result.

All these years he had kept in touch with his college chums, and when the day of his success
arrived, and he was his own master, with the inborn good-fellowship that marked his race, he
had unbuttoned his pocket, shaken out his heart and let loose a hospitality that not only revived
the memories of his childhood, but created a new kind of joy in the hearts of his guests. Hence
the bungalow--hence Jackson--hence the lockers and the ice-chest, and hence the bed quilt of mint.

"This is your room, Muggles--and, Bender, old man, yours is next Podvine, you are across the
hall," was his welcome. "Breakfast is any time you want it; dinner at six. Now come here! See
that line of lockers and that ice-chest? Don't forget 'em, please! Step up, Jackson--take a
look at him, boys. That darky can mix anything known to man. He never sleeps, and he's never
tired. If you don't call on him for every blessed thing you want day or night, there'll be
trouble."

They fished and canoed; they hunted bears--a fact known to the bear, who kept out of their
way--never was in it, Bender insisted; they went overboard every morning, one after another,
in the almost ice-cold water of the lake, out again red as lobsters, back on a run, whooping
with the cold to the blazing fire of the bungalow which Jackson had replenished with bundles
of dried balsam that cracked and snapped with a roar while it toasted the bare backs and scorched
the bare legs of each one in turn (the balsam was gathered the year before for this very purpose).
They roamed the woods, getting a crack once in a while at a partridge or a squirrel; they strolled
about the mill, listening to the whir of the saws and watching the "cut" as it was rolled away
and was made to feed the huge piles of lumber and timber flanking the runway and far enough
away from the huge stack to be out of the way of treacherous sparks; and at night they sat
around Jackson's constantly replenished fire and told stories of their college days or revived
the current gossip of the club and the Street. 

A ray of sun shone on the diagonal and between restless spots on the sole window of the attic and
illuminated part of the sad, empty room. In this ray of sunshine was shining hair the girl
as if crowned by a halo of fire. There, with his huge wrist between the knees and sitting
on the floor, seemed to speak and quickly understand Lady Clara which reproduced the interview
occurred a few moments ago. Severely reprimanded wrist inquiring about the length of stay at home
and on the measurement day and weeks. Correctly imitated the ways of Madame de Galba and conversation
about literally reproduced above, with one difference. After he had informed Doll was not his
mother, and completed the interview, he said affectionately: "What if Stork was very, very
Stork, would be his mom and give her a kiss. "

The moody fugitive, this scene struck very unpleasantly, and the conclusion made dyed her cheeks
with rouge. It's unfurnished room, half-light, the monstrous Doll, whose size seemed almost natural
to give your pathetic lack of spoken language, weakness the only animated figure of the table, affected
the sensibilities of women and the poet's imagination. In this situation, could not take advantage
of the feeling and thought of the beautiful poem that could be plotted with those materials,
if the room had was darker and more deserted the child was, for example, sitting beside the
coffin his mother while the wind moaned through the doors and windows. Suddenly he heard footsteps
on the porch and recognized the staff of Colonel noise echoing through the floor.

He jumped quickly up the stairs and found the colonel in the hallway, lacking time to voluble
and exaggerated to make the story of his discovery and his angry relationship grievances.

- Oh! Do not say that entanglement is not already fixed in advance, knowing that it was! - Said loudly .--
And judge - he added - the heart of the infamous, who abandons his own daughter, in a way so
inhuman.

- It is a solemn impudence! - Stammered the colonel no idea what he was saying.

Unable to find a reason for the exaltation of their idol and to understand its nature, I did
not know what attitude to take.

He stammered, gasped, began serious, gallant, tender, but in a way so foolish and incomprehensible
that Lady Clara experienced the painful question that was in its perfect trial.

- No go - the lady said with sudden energy Galba replying to a comment made whispered the colonel,
and removing his hand from the pressure vehement passionate man .--
It useless, my decision is already taken.

You are free to send in my bag as soon as want, but I'll stay here to put face to face with this
man the evidence of their infamy. He'll face to face with his villain proceed.

I am convinced that Colonel Roberto did not appreciate the full value of the convincing evidence
of infidelity and perversion charged and proved to the evidence given
by the hostel Galba's daughter in his own home. However, Entrol at
once as a premonition vague that an unexpected obstacle was opposed
to the perfect realization of the wishes of his romantic spirit.

The sudden roar that followed this announcement shook the big glasses and bottles on the low table.

"So you'd keep the blankets soaked, would you?" remarked Billy, winking at the others.

"I certainly would." This came with a certain triumphant tone in his voice.

"Learned that practising on his head," whispered Podvine.

"Right you are, Poddy; but Muggles, suppose the mill caught first," chipped in Monteith. The
mill was the apple of his eye. Fire was what he dreaded--he never could insure the mill fully
against fire. "What would you protect first--the mill or the piles of lumber?"

"The lumber, of course--the mill can use its pumps if the engine-room escapes."

"Better save the mill," rejoined Monteith thoughtfully. "Trade is pretty dull." Then he rose
from his seat, reached for his hat and strolled out on the portico to take a look around before
he turned in. This creature, ready, happy, innocent
and artless, was what touched the heart the boy and woke susceptibility morality that had been
insensitive to the sermons and teachings of the theologian of society.
 That Monteith had
approved of his tactics only increased their respect for their companion. Muggles caught the
meaning of the look in their faces and his waistcoat began to pinch him across his chest. This
life was what he needed, he said to himself. Here were big men--the lumber-boss was one--and
he was another--doing big things. Nothing like getting down to primeval Nature for an inspiration!
"Hugging the sod," as he named it, had had its effect not only on himself, but on his fellows.
They would never have felt that way toward him at the Magnolia. The week at Wabacog had widened
their horizon--widened everybody's horizon--as for himself he felt like a Western prairie with
limitless possibilities ending in mountains of accomplishment.

That night, an hour after midnight, Muggles found himself sitting bolt upright in bed. Tell him I have
taken her son and let him know that should never see ... see ... child again. There where he
goes, he should not come, wherever I take it, he should not continue. It is therefore sufficient.
I'm tired y. .. I still have lots of homework.

And to the door. In the doorway, she turned.

- Good night.

Been laid at the feet of Dona Maria, but at the same time, she held out her arms, shook for a moment
against his chest clean the sinful woman, and then pushed and closed
the door.

Unable to escape a sudden feeling of responsibility, took
the Bill to heretic Next morning the control of Silius Gullon diligence,
because that day one of his passengers was the teacher, Mrs. Mary.

Muggles looked about him.

HIS SUPREME MOMENT HAD COME!

The blood of the Clanworthys rose in his veins. The Pass lay before him--so did the Bridge.
A full suit of dove-colored pajamas and a pair of turned-up Turkish slippers was not exactly
the kind of uniform that either Leonidas or Horatius would have chosen to fight his way to
glory, but there was no time to change them.

With a whoop to Bender, who had really begun to believe in him, and a commanding order to Jackson,
the three stripped the costly Turkish rugs from the lounges, and blankets from the beds, and,
following his lead, dashed through the woods to the relief of the endangered pile of lumber.
On the way they passed a gang of Canucks, carrying buckets. It was but the work of a moment
to arrange these into a posse of relays with Bender on the lake end of the line and Jackson
next the pile, the gang passing the buckets from hand to hand. Perhaps as little sympathetic system or for such investigations Western
willingness to take a joke any principle or sentiment that is displayed with excessive persistence,
Mr Thomas's research on the subject awoke the mood of the passengers of the ship.

Privately Circulose including a free listing on this Carlos, addressed to Jailers and Guardian, and
everyone remembered seeing Carlos in painful circumstances, but on behalf of my countrymen I
must confess that, when it emerged that a large sum earmarked Thomas to justify the project, just
quietly followed the jokes, and nothing was said, while he could hear, he was able to grieve
the heart of a father, or to endanger the benefit they could expect the pranksters of all stripes.
The proposition of Mr. Adolfo Tibet made jokingly, to establish a company in partnership, with the
aim of finding the Young lost, won, in principle, favorable reception.

Psychologically considered, the character of Mr. Thomas was not polite nor worthy of attention.
His background, as he himself informed a day at the table, denoting a temperament practical,
even in the midst of his escapades. He had a rough youth and middle age and willing, during which he had
buried his wife dislikes, and forced to engage your child, suddenly felt a strong vocation for
the cloister.

- The New Orleans grabbed the year 59 - he said Mr. Thomas, as he
refers to a epidemic .-- Pásenme chops!

Perhaps this was the practical temperament that sustained him in
his seemingly fruitless inquiry.

Backing slowly down the ladder one rung at a time, his face blistered, his pajamas burnt into
holes, he examined the surrounding lumber; saw that all his orders had been carried out, gave
some parting instructions to the men to watch out for sparks, especially those around the edge
of the saved pile, and then slowly, and with great dignity, made his way to the bungalow--his
destiny fulfilled, his honor maintained and his position assured among his fellows. He had
now only to await the plaudits of his comrades!

As he pushed open the door and looked about him the color rose in his cheeks and a kind of
a hotness came from inside his pajamas. Grouped about the low table, heaped with specimens
of cut glass, a squatty bottle, a siphon and a bowl of cracked ice, sat every member of the
coterie--Bender among them--Monteith in the easy chair at their head. If any other occupation
had engrossed their attention since the alarm sounded there was no evidence of it either in
their appearance or in the tones of their voices.

"Lo, the Conquering Hero," broke out Podvine. "Get up Billy and put a wreath of laurel over
his scorched and blistered brow."

Muggles, for a moment, did not reply. The shock had taken his breath away. He supposed every
man had worked himself into exhaustion. The only thing that had really dimmed his own triumph
was the fear that on reaching the bungalow he might find the blackened remains of one or more
of his comrades stretched out on the floor.

"Didn't you fellows try to save anything?" he exploded.

"Wasn't anything to save--mill was in no danger."

"Why, the whole place would have gone if I hadn't--"

"You're quite right, Muggles," said Monteith. "Let up on him, boys. You worked like a beaver,
old man. Sorry about the rugs--one was an old Bokhara--but that's all right--of course you
didn't stop to think."

"Well, but, Monteith--what's a rug or two when you have to save a pile of--what's the lumber
worth, anyhow?"

"Oh, well, never mind--let it go, old man."

Bender, who was still soaking wet from splashing buckets, and since his return to the bungalow
had been boiling mad clear through, sprang to his feet.

"I'll tell you--I've just found out. As the pile now stands it's worth four thousand dollars.
If it had burned up it would have been worth six. It's insured, you goat!"

The End

