This collapse of the railroad service started a clamor for investigation by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, which of course brought terror to the bosoms of the plunderers. On Dec.
20, 1913, we find the "Outlook" "putting the soft pedal" on the public indignation. "It must
not be forgotten that such a road as the New Haven is, in fact if not in terms, a National
possession, and as it goes down or up, public interests go down or up with it," But in spite
of all pious admonitions, the Interstate Commerce Commission yielded to the public clamor,
and an investigation was made--revealing such conditions of rottenness as to shock even the
clerical retainers of Privilege. "Securities were inflated, debt was heaped upon debt", reports
the horrified "Outlook"; and when its hero, Mr. Mellen--its industrial Shelley, "nervously
organized, of delicate sensibility"--admitted that he had no authority as to the finances of
the road and no understanding of them, but had taken all his orders from Morgan, the "Outlook"
remarks, deeply wounded: "A pitiable position for the president of a great railway to assume."
A little later, when things got hotter yet, we read:

In the search for truth the Commissioners had to overcome many obstacles, such as the burning
of books, letters and documents, and the obstinacy of witnesses, who declined to testify until
criminal proceedings were begun. The New Haven system has more than three hundred subsidiary
corporations in a web of entangling alliances, many of which were seemingly planned, created
and manipulated by lawyers expressly retained for the purpose of concealment or deception.

But do you imagine even that would sicken the pious jackals of their offal? If so, you do not
know the sturdiness of the pious stomach. A compromise was patched up between the government
and the thieves who were too big to be prosecuted; this bargain was not kept by the thieves,
and President Wilson declared in a public statement that the New Haven administration had "broken
an agreement deliberately and solemnly entered into," in a manner to the President "inexplicable
and entirely without justification." Which, of course, seemed to the "Outlook" dreadfully impolite
language to be used concerning a "National possession"; it hastened to rebuke President Wilson,
whose statement was "too severe and drastic."

A new compromise was made between the government and the thieves who were too big to be prosecuted,
and the stealing went on. Now, as I work over this book, the President takes the railroads
for war use, and reads to Congress a message proposing that the securities based upon the New
Haven swindles, together with all the mass of other railroad swindles, shall be sanctified
and secured by dividends paid out of the Public purse. New Haven securities take a big jump;
and the "Outlook", needless to say, is enthusiastic for the President's policy. Here is a chance
for the big thieves to baptize themselves--or shall we say to have the water in their stocks
made "holy"? Says our pious editor, for the government to take property without full compensation
"would be contrary to the whole spirit of America."

The Outlook for Graft

Anyone familiar with the magazine world will understand that such crooked work as this, continued
over a long period, is not done for nothing. Any magazine writer would know, the instant he
saw the Baxter article, that Baxter was paid by the New Haven, and that the "Outlook" also
was paid by the New Haven. Generally he has no way of proving such facts, and has to sit in
silence; but when his board bill falls due and his landlady is persistent, he experiences a
direct and earnest hatred of the crooks of journalism who thrive at his expense. If he is a
Socialist, he looks forward to the day when he may sit on a Publications' Graft Commission,
with access to all magazine books which have not yet been burned!

In the case of the New Haven, we know a part of the price--thanks to the labors of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Needless to say, you will not find the facts recorded in the columns of
the Outlook; you might have read it line by line from the palmy days of Mellen to our own,
and you would have got no hint of what the Commission revealed about magazine and newspaper
graft. Nor would you have got much more from the great metropolitan dailies, which systematically
"played down" the expose, omitting all the really damaging details. You would have to go to
the reports of the Commission--or to the files of "Pearson's Magazine", which is out of print
and not found in libraries!

According to the New Haven's books, and by the admission of its own officials, the road was
spending more than four hundred thousand dollars a year to influence newspapers and magazines
in favor of its policies. (President Mellen stated that this was relatively less than any other
railroad in the country was spending). There was a professor of the Harvard Law School, going
about lecturing to boards of trade, urging in the name of economic science the repeal of laws
against railroad monopolies--and being paid for his speeches out of railroad funds! There was
a swarm of newspaper reporters, writing on railroad affairs for the leading papers of New England,
and getting twenty-fivedollars weekly, or two or three hundred on special occasions. Sums had
been paid directly to more than a thousand newspapers--$3,000 to the Boston "Republic", and
when the question was asked "Why?" the answer was, "That is Mayor Fitzgerald's paper." Even
the ultra-respectable "Evening Transcript", organ of the Brahmins of culture, was down for
$144 for typing, mimeographing and sending out "dope" to the country press. There was an item
of $381 for 15,000 "Prayers"; and when asked about that President Mellen explained that it
referred to a pamphlet called "Prayers from the Hills", embodying the yearnings of the back-country
people for trolley-franchises to be issued to the New Haven. Asked why the pamphlet was called
"Prayers", Mr. Mellen explained that "there was lots of biblical language in it."

And now we come to the "Outlook"; after five years of waiting, we catch our pious editors with
the goods on them! There appears on the pay-roll of the New Haven, as one of its regular press-agents,
getting sums like $500 now and then--would you think it possible?--Sylvester Baxter!

The writer makes a specialty of fair play, even when dealing with those who have never practiced
it towards him. He wrote a letter to the editor of the "Outlook", asking what the magazine
might have to say upon this matter. The reply, signed by Lawrence F. Abbott, President of the
"Outlook" Company, was that the "Outlook" did not know that Mr. Baxter had any salaried connection
with the New Haven, and that they had paid him for the article at the usual rates. Against
this statement must be set one made under oath by the official of the New Haven who had the
disbursing of the corruption fund--that the various papers which used the railroad material
paid nothing for it, and "they all knew where it came from." Mr. Lawrence Abbott states that
"the New Haven Railroad bought copies of the 'Outlook' without any previous understanding or
arrangement as anybody is entitled to buy copies of the 'Outlook'." I might point out that
this does not really say as much as it seems to; for the President of every magazine company
in America knows without any previous understanding or arrangement that any time he cares to
print an article such as Mr. Baxter's, dealing with the affairs of a great corporation, he
can sell ten thousand copies to that corporation. The late unlamented Elbert Hubbard wrote
a defense of the Rockefeller slaughter of coal-miners, published it in "The Fra," and came
down to New York and unloaded several tons at 26 Broadway; he did the same thing in the case
of the copper strike in Michigan, and again in the case of "The Jungle"--and all this without
the slightest claim to divine inspiration or authority!

Mr. Abbott answers another question: "We certainly did not return the amount to the railroad
company." Well, a sturdy conscience must be a comfort to its possessor. The President of the
"Outlook" is in the position of a pawnbroker caught with stolen goods in his establishment.
He had no idea they were stolen; and we might believe it, if the thief were obscure. But when
the thief is the most notorious in the city--when his picture has been in the paper a thousand
times? And when the thief swears that the broker knew him? And when the broker's shop is full
of other suspicious goods? Why did the "Outlook" practically take back Mr. Spahr's revelations
concerning the Powder barony of Delaware? Why did it support so vigorously the Standard Oil
ticket for the control of the Mutual Life Insurance Company--and with James Stillman, one of
the heads of Standard Oil, president of Standard Oil's big bank in New York, secretly one of
its biggest stockholders!

Also, why does the magazine refuse to give its readers a chance to judge its conduct? Why is
it that a search of its columns reveals no mention of the revelations concerning Mr. Baxter--not
even any mention of the $400,000 slush fund of its paragon, of transportation virtues? I asked
that question in my letter, and the president of the "Outlook" Company for some reason failed
to notice it. I wrote a second time, courteously reminding him of the omission; and also of
another, equally significant--he had not informed me whether any of the editors of the "Outlook",
or the officers or directors of the Company, were stockholders in the New Haven. His final
reply was that the questions seem to him "wholly unimportant"; he does not know whether the
"Outlook" published anything about the Baxter revelations, nor does he know whether any of
the editors or officers or directors of the "Outlook" Company are or ever have been stockholders
of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company. The fact "would not in the slightest
degree affect either favorably or unfavorably our editorial treatment of that corporation."
Caesar's wife, it appears is above suspicion--even when she is caught in a brothel!

Clerical Camouflage

I have seen a photograph from "Somewhere in France", showing a wayside shrine with a statue
of the Virgin Mary, innocent and loving, with her babe in her arms. If you were a hostile aviator,
you might sail over and take pictures to your heart's content, and you would see nothing but
a saintly image; you would have to be on the enemy's side, and behind the lines, to make the
discovery that under the image had been dug a hole for a machine-gun. When I saw that picture,
I thought to myself--there is capitalist Religion!

You see, if cannon and machine-guns are out in the open, they are almost instantly spotted
and put out of action; and so with magazines like "Leslie's Weekly", or "Munsey's", or the
"North American Review", which are frankly and wholly in the interest of Big Business. If an
editor wishes really to be effective in holding back progress, he must protect himself with
a camouflage of piety and philanthropy, he must have at his tongue's end the phrases of brotherhood
and justice, he must be liberal and progressive, going a certain cautious distance with the
reformers, indulging in carefully measured fair play--giving a dime with one hand, while taking
back a dollar with the other!

Let us have an illustration of this clerical camouflage. Here are the wives and children of
the Colorado coal-miners being shot and burned in their beds by Rockefeller gun-men, and the
press of the entire country in a conspiracy of silence concerning the matter. In the effort
to break down this conspiracy, Bouck White, Congregational clergyman, author of "The Call of
the Carpenter", goes to the Fifth Avenue Church of Standard Oil and makes a protest in the
name of Jesus. I do not wish to make extreme statements, but I have read history pretty thoroughly,
and I really do not know where in nineteen hundred years you can find an action more completely
in the spirit and manner of Jesus than that of Bouck White. The only difference was that whereas
Jesus took a real whip and lashed the money-changers, White politely asked the pastor to discuss
with him the question whether or not Jesus condemned the holding of wealth. He even took the
precaution to write a letter to the clergyman announcing in advance what he intended to do!
And how did the clergyman prepare for him? With the sword of truth and the armor of the spirit?
No--but with two or three dozen strong-arm men, who flung themselves upon the Socialist author
and hurled him out of the church. So violent were they that several of White's friends, also
one or two casual spectators, were moved to protest; what happened then, let us read in the
New York "Sun", the most bitterly hostile to radicalism of all the metropolitan newspapers.
Says the "Sun's" report:

A police billy came crunching against the bones of Lopez's legs. It struck him as hard as a
man could swing it eight times. A fist planted on Lopez's jaw knocked out two teeth. His lip
was torn open. A blow in the eye made it swell and blacken instantly. A minute later Lopez
was leaning against the church with blood running to the doorsill.

And now, what has the clerical camouflage to say on this proceeding? Does it approve it? Oh
no! It was "a mistake", the "Outlook" protests; it intensifies the hatred which these extremists
feel for the church. The proper course would have been to turn the disturber aside with a soft
answer; to give him some place, say in a park, where he could talk his head off to people of
his own sort, while good and decent Christians continued to worship by themselves in peace,
and to have the children of their mine-slaves shot and burned in their beds. Says our pious editor:

The true way to repress cranks is not to suppress them; it is to give them an opportunity to
air their theories before any who wish to learn, while forbidding them to compel those to listen
who do not wish to do so.

Or take another case. Twelve years ago the writer made an effort to interest the American people
in the conditions of labor in their packing-plants. It happened that incidentally I gave some
facts about the bedevilment of the public's meat-supply, and the public really did care about
that. As I phrased it at the time, I aimed at the public's heart, and by accident I hit it
in the stomach. There was a terrible clamor, and Congress was forced to pass a bill to remedy
the evils. As a matter of fact this bill was a farce, but the public was satisfied, and soon
forgot the matter entirely. The point to be noted here is that so far as concerned the atrocious
miseries of the working-people, it was not necessary even to pretend to do anything. The slaves
of Packingtown went on living and working as they were described as doing in "The Jungle",
and nobody gave a further thought to them. Only the other day I read in my paper--while we
are all making sacrifices in a "War for Democracy"--that Armour and Company had paid a dividend
of twenty-one per cent, and Swift and Company a dividend of thirty-five per cent.

This prosperity they owe in good part to their clerical camouflage. Listen to our pious "Outlook",
engaged in countermining "The Jungle". The "Outlook" has no doubt that there are genuine evils
in the packing-plants; the conditions of the workers ought of course to be improved; BUT--

