I have said, that when Cardinal d'Estrees quitted Spain, the Abbe d'Estrees was left behind,
so that France should not be altogether unrepresented in an official manner at the Court of
Madrid.  Madame des Ursins did not like this arrangement, but as Madame de Maintenon insisted
upon it, she was obliged to accept it with as good grace as possible. The Abbe, vain of his
family and of his position, was not a man much to be feared as it seemed.  Madame des Ursins
accordingly laughed at and despised him.  He was admitted to the council, but was quite without
influence there, and when he attempted to make any representations to Madame des Ursins or
to Orry, they listened to him without attending in the least to what he said.  The Princess
reigned supreme, and thought of nothing but getting rid of all who attempted to divide her
authority. At last she obtained such a command over the poor Abbe d'Estrees, so teased and
hampered him, that he consented to the hitherto unheard-of arrangement, that the Ambassador
of France should not write to the King without first concerting his letter with her, and then
show her its contents before he despatched it.  But such restraint as this became, in a short
time, so fettering, that the Abbe determined to break away from it.  He wrote a letter to the
King, without showing it to Madame des Ursins.  She soon had scent of what he had done; seized
the letter as it passed through the post, opened it, and, as she expected, found its contents
were not of a kind to give her much satisfaction.  But what piqued her most was, to find details
exaggerating the authority of D'Aubigny, and a statement to the effect that it was generally
believed she had married him.  Beside herself with rage and vexation, she wrote with her own
hand upon the margin of the letter, 'Pour mariee non' ("At any rate, not married"), showed
it in this state to the King and Queen of Spain, to a number of other people, always with strange
clamouring, and finally crowned her folly by sending it to the King (Louis XIV.), with furious
complaints against the Abbe for writing it without her knowledge, and for inflicting upon her
such an atrocious injury as to mention this pretended marriage.  Her letter and its enclosure
reached the King at a very inopportune moment.  Just before, he had received a letter, which,
taken in connection with this of the Princesse des Ursins, struck a blow at her power of the
most decisive kind.

CHAPTER XXVIII

Some little time previously it had been thought necessary to send an army to the frontiers
of Portugal to oppose the Archduke.  A French general was wanted to command this army.  Madame
des Ursins, who had been very intimate with the King of England (James II.) and his Queen,
thought she would please them if she gave this post to the Duke of Berwick, illegitimate son
of King James.  She proposed this therefore; and our King, out of regard for his brother monarch,
and from a natural affection for bastards, consented to the appointment; but as the Duke of
Berwick had never before commanded an army, he stipulated that Pursegur, known to be a skilful
officer, should go with him and assist him with his counsels and advice.

Pursegur set out before the Duke of Berwick.  From the Pyrenees as far as Madrid, he found
every provision made for the subsistence of the French troops, and sent a very advantageous
account to the King of this circumstance.  Arrived at Madrid, he had interviews with Orry (who,
as I have already mentioned, had the finances under his control, and who was a mere instrument
in the hands of Madame des Ursins), and was assured by the minister that all the magazines
along the line of route to the frontiers of Portugal were abundantly filled with supplies for
the French troops, that all the money necessary was ready; and that nothing, in fact, should
fail in the course of the campaign.  Pursegur, who had found nothing wanting up to that time,
never doubted but that these statements were perfectly correct; and had no suspicion that a
minister would have the effrontery to show him in detail all these precautions if he had taken
none.  Pleased, then, to the utmost degree, he wrote to the King in praise of Orry, and consequently
of Madame des Ursins and her wise government.  Full of these ideas, he set out for the frontier
of Portugal to reconnoitre the ground himself, and arrange everything for the arrival of the
army and its general.  What was his surprise, when he found that from Madrid to the frontier
not a single preparation had been made for the troops, and that in consequence all that Orry
had shown him, drawn out upon paper, was utterly fictitious.  His vexation upon finding that
nothing upon which he had reckoned was provided, may be imagined.  He at once wrote to the
King, in order to contradict all that he had recently written.

This conduct of Orry--his impudence, I may say--in deceiving a man who immediately after would
have under his eyes the proof of his deceit, is a thing past all comprehension.  It is easy
to understand that rogues should steal, but not that they should have the audacity to do so
in the face of facts which so quickly and so easily could prove their villainy.

It was Pursegur's letter then, detailing this rascality on the part of Orry, that had reached
the King just before that respecting the Abbe d'Estrees.  The two disclosed a state of things
that could not be allowed any longer to exist.  Our ministers, who, step by step, had been
deprived of all control over the affairs of Spain, profited by the discontentment of the King
to reclaim their functions.  Harcourt and Madame de Maintenon did all they could to ward off
the blow from Madame des Ursins, but without effect.  The King determined to banish her to
Rome and to dismiss Orry from his post.

It was felt, however, that these steps must be taken cautiously, to avoid offending too deeply
the King and Queen of Spain, who supported their favourite through every emergency.

In the first place, then, a simple reprimand was sent to the Princesse des Ursins for the violation
of the respect due to the King, by opening a letter addressed to him by one of his ambassadors.
The Abbe d'Estrees, who expected that Madame des Ursins would be at once disgraced, and who
had made a great outcry when his letter was opened, fell into such despair when he saw how
lightly she was let off, that he asked for his dismissal.  He was taken at his word; and this
was a new triumph for Madame des Ursins, who thought herself more secure than ever.  Her triumph
was of but short duration.  The King wrote to Philip, recommending him to head in person the
army for the frontiers of Portugal, which, in spite of Orry's deception, it was still determined
to send.  No sooner was Philip fairly away, separated from the Queen and Madame des Ursins,
and no longer under their influence, than the King wrote to the Queen of Spain, requesting
her, in terms that could not be disputed, to dismiss at once and for ever her favourite 'Camerera
Mayor'. The Queen, in despair at the idea of losing a friend and adviser to whom she had been
so much attached, believed herself lost.  At the same time that the King wrote to the Queen
of Spain, he also wrote to the Princesse des Ursins, ordering her to quit Madrid immediately,
to leave Spain, and to retire into Italy.

At this conjuncture of affairs, when the Queen was in despair, Madame des Ursins did not lose
her composure.  She opened her eyes to all that had passed since she had violated D'Estrees'
letter, and saw the vanity of the triumph she had recently enjoyed.  She felt at once that
for the present all was lost, that her only hope was to be allowed to remain in France.  She
made all her arrangements, therefore, so that affairs might proceed in her absence as much
as possible as though she were present, and then prepared to set out.  Dawdling day by day,
she put off her departure as long as could be, and when at length she left Madrid only went
to Alcala, a few leagues distant.  She stopped there under various pretexts, and at length,
after five weeks of delay, set out for Bayonne, journeying as slowly as she could and stopping
as often as she dared.

She lost no opportunity of demanding an audience at Versailles, in order to clear herself of
the charge which weighed upon her, and her importunities at length were not without effect.
The most terrible storms at Court soon blow over.  The King (Louis XIV.) was satisfied with
the success of his plans.  He had been revenged in every way, and had humbled the pride of
the Princesse des Ursins.  It was not necessary to excite the anger of the Queen and King of
Spain by too great harshness against their fallen friend.  Madame de Maintenon took advantage
of this change in the temper of the King, and by dint of persuasion and scheming succeeded
in obtaining from him the permission for Madame des Ursins to remain in France.  Toulouse was
fixed upon for her residence.  It was a place that just suited her, and from which communication
with Spain was easy.  Here accordingly she took up her residence, determined to watch well
the course of events, and to avail herself of every opportunity that could bring about her
complete reconciliation with the King (Louis XIV.), and obtain for her in consequence the permission
to return to Madrid.

In the mean time, the King and Queen of Spain, distressed beyond measure at the loss of their
favourite, thought only of the best means of obtaining her recall.  They plotted with such
ministers as were favourable to her; they openly quarrelled with and thwarted those who were
her opponents, so that the most important matters perished in their hands.  Nay more, upon
the King of Spain's return, the Queen persuaded him to oppose in all things the wishes of the
King (Louis XIV.), his grandfather, and to neglect his counsels with studied care.  Our King
complained of this with bitterness.  The aim of it was to tire him out, and to make him understand
that it was only Madame des Ursins, well treated and sent back, who could restore Spanish affairs
to their original state, and cause his authority to be respected.  Madame de Maintenon, on
her side, neglected no opportunity of pressing the King to allow Madame des Ursins, not to
return into Spain--that would have been to spoil all by asking too much but simply to come
to Versailles in order to have the opportunity of justifying herself for her past conduct.
From other quarters the King was similarly importuned.  Tired at last of the obstinate opposition
he met with in Spain from the Queen; who governed completely her husband, he gave permission
to Madame des Ursins to come to Versailles to plead her own cause.  Self-imprisoned as he was
in seclusion, the truth never approached him, and he was the only man in the two kingdoms who
had no suspicion that the arrival of Madame ales Ursins at the Court was the certain sign of
her speedy return to Spain more powerful than ever.  But he was fatigued with the constant
resistance he met with; with the disorder which this occasioned in public affairs at a time
too when, as I will afterwards explain, the closest union was necessary between the two crowns
in order to repel the common enemy, and these motives induced him, to the astonishment of his
ministers, to grant the favour requested of him.

However well informed Madame des Ursins might be of all that was being done on her account,
this permission surpassed her hopes.  Her joy accordingly was very great; but it did not at
all carry her away.  She saw that her return to Spain would now depend upon herself.  She determined
to put on the air of one who is disgraced, but who hopes, and yet is humiliated.  She instructed
all her friends to assume the same manner; took all measures with infinite presence of mind;
did not hurry her departure, and yet set out with sufficient promptness to prevent any coldness
springing up, and to show with what eagerness she profited by the favour accorded to her, and
which she had so much wished.

No sooner was the courier gone who carried this news to her, than the rumour of her return
was whispered all over the Court, and became publicly confirmed a few days afterwards.  The
movement that it produced at Court was inconceivable.  Only the friends of Madame des Ursins
were able to remain in a tolerably tranquil state.  Everybody opened his eyes and comprehended
that the return of such an important personage was a fact that could not be insignificant.
People prepared themselves for a sort of rising sun that was going to change and renew many
things in nature.  On every side were seen people who had scarcely ever uttered her name, and
who now boasted of their intimacy with her and of her friendship for them.  Other people were
seen, who, although openly allied with her enemies, had the baseness to affect transports of
joy at her forthcoming return, and to flatter those whom they thought likely to favour them
with her.

She reached Paris on Sunday, the 4th of January, 1705.  The Duc d'Albe met her several miles
out of the city, escorted her to his house, and gave a fete in her honour there.  Several persons
of distinction went out to meet her.  Madame des Ursins had reason to be surprised at an entry
so triumphant: she would not, however, stay with the Duc and Duchesse d'Albe, but took up her
quarters with the Comtesse d'Egmont, niece of the Archbishop of Aix; the said Archbishop having
been instrumental in obtaining her recall.  The King was at Marly.  I was there with Madame
de Saint-Simon.  During the remainder of the stay at Marly everybody flocked to the house of
Madame des Ursins, anxious to pay her their court. However flattered she may have been by this
concourse, she had matters to occupy her, pleaded want of repose, and shut her door to three
people out of four who called upon her.  Curiosity, perhaps fashion, drew this great crowd
to her.  The ministers were startled by it.  Torcy had orders from the King to go, and see
her: he did so; and from that moment Madame des Ursins changed her tone.  Until then her manner
had been modest, supplicating, nearly timid.  She now saw and heard so much that from defendant,
which she had intended to be, she thought herself in a condition to become accuser; and to
demand justice of those who, abusing the confidence of the King, had drawn upon her such a
long and cruel punishment, and made her a show for the two kingdoms.  All that happened to
her surpassed her hopes.  Several times when with me she has expressed her astonishment; and
with me has laughed at many people, often of much consideration, whom she scarcely knew, or
who had been strongly opposed to her, and who basely crouched at her feet.

The King returned to Versailles on Saturday, the 10th of January.  Madame des Ursins arrived
there the same day.  I went immediately to see her, not having been able to do so before, because
I could not quit Marly.  My mother had seen a great deal of Madame des Ursins at Paris.  I
had always been on good terms with her, and had received on all occasions proofs of her friendship.
She received me very well, spoke with much freedom, and said she promised herself the pleasure
of seeing me again, and of talking with me more at her ease.  On, the morrow, Sunday, she dined
at home alone, dressed herself in grand style, and went to the King, with whom she remained
alone two hours and a half conversing in his cabinet.  From there she went to the Duchesse
de Bourgogne, with whom she also conversed a long time alone.  In the evening, the King said,
while in Madame de Maintenon's apartments, that there were still many things upon which he
had not yet spoken to Madame des Ursins.  The next day she saw Madame de Maintenon in private
for a long time, and much at her ease.  She had an interview soon after with the King and Madame
de Maintenon, which was also very long.

A month after this a special courier arrived from the King and Queen of Spain, to thank the
King (Louis XIV.) for his conduct towards the Princesse des Ursins.  From that moment it was
announced that she would remain at Court until the month of April, in order to attend to her
affairs and her health.  It was already to have made a grand step to be mistress enough to
announce thus her stay.  Nobody in truth doubted of her return to Spain, but the word was not
yet said.  She avoided all explanations, and it may be believed did not have many indiscreet
questions put to her upon the subject.

So many and such long audiences with the King, followed by so much serenity, had a great effect
upon the world, and the crowd that flocked to see Madame des Ursins was greater than ever;
but under various pretences she shut herself up and would see only a few intimate friends,
foremost among which were Madame de Saint-Simon and myself.  Whilst triumphant beyond all her
hopes in Paris, she was at work in Spain, and with equal success.  Rivas, who had drawn up
the will of the late King Charles II., was disgraced, and never afterwards rose to favour.
The Duc de Grammont, our ambassador at Madrid, was so overwhelmed with annoyance, that he asked
for his recall.  Amelot, whom Madame des Ursins favoured, was appointed in his place, and many
who had been disgraced were reinstated in office; everything was ordered according to her wishes.

We returned to Marly, where many balls took place.  It need not be doubted that Madame des
Ursins was among the invited.  Apartments were given her, and nothing could equal the triumphant
air with which she took possession of them, the continual attentions of the King to her, as
though she were some little foreign queen just arrived at his Court, or the majestic fashion
in which she received them, mingled with grace and respectful politeness, then almost out of
date, and which recalled the stately old dames of the Queen-mother.  She never came without
the King, who appeared to be completely occupied with her, talking with her, pointing out objects
for her inspection, seeking her opinion and her approbation with an air of gallantry, even
of flattery, which never ceased.  The frequent private conversations that she had with him
in the apartment of Madame de Maintenon, and which lasted an hour, and sometimes double that
time; those that she very often had in the morning alone with Madame de Maintenon, rendered
her the divinity of the Court.  The Princesses encircled her the moment she appeared anywhere,
and went to see her in her chamber.  Nothing was more surprising than the servile eagerness
with which the greatest people, the highest in power and the most in favour, clustered around
her.  Her very glances were counted, and her words, addressed even to ladies of the highest
rank, imprinted upon them a look of ravishment.

I went nearly every morning to her house: she always rose very early, dressed herself at once,
so that she was never seen at her toilette. I was in advance of the hour fixed for the most
important visitors, and we talked with the same liberty as of yore.  I learnt from her many
details, and the opinion of the King and of Madame de Maintenon upon many people.  We often
used to laugh in concert at the truckling to her of persons the most considerable, and of the
disdain they drew upon themselves, although she did not testify it to them.  We laughed too
at the falsehood of others, who after having done her all the injury in their power ever since
her arrival, lavished upon her all kinds of flatteries, and boasted of their affection for
her and of zeal in her cause.  I was flattered with this confidence of the dictatress of the
Court.  It drew upon me a sudden consideration; for people of the greatest distinction often
found me alone with her in the morning, and the messengers who rained down at that time reported
that they had found me with her, and that they had not been able to speak to her.  Oftentimes
in the salon she called me to her, or at other times I went to her and whispered a word in
her ear, with an air of ease and liberty much envied but little imitated.  She never met Madame
de Saint-Simon without going to her, praising her, making her join in the conversation that
was passing around; oftentimes leading her to the glass and adjusting her head-dress or her
robe as she might have done in private to a daughter. People asked with surprise and much annoyance
whence came such a great friendship which had never been suspected by anybody?  What completed
the torment of the majority, was to see Madame des Ursins, as soon as she quitted the chamber
of Madame de Maintenon, go immediately to Madame de Saint-Simon, lead her aside, and speak
to her in a low tone.  This opened the eyes of everybody and drew upon us many civilities.

A more solid gratification to us were the kind things Madame des Ursins said in our behalf
to the King and Madame de Maintenon.  She spoke in the highest praise of Madame de Saint-Simon,
and declared that there was no woman at Court so fitting as she, so expressly made by her virtue,
good conduct, and ability, to be lady of the Palace, or even lady-of-honour to Madame la Duchesse
de Bourgogne, should the post become vacant.  Madame des Ursins did not forget me; but a woman
was more susceptible of her praise.  It made, therefore, all the more impression.  This kind
manner towards us did not change during all her stay at Court.

At all the balls which Madame des Ursins attended, she was treated with much distinction, and
at one she obtained permission for the Duc and Duchesse d'Albe to be present, but with some
little trouble.  I say with some little trouble, because no ambassador, no foreigner, had ever,
with one exception, been admitted to Marly.  It was a great favour, therefore, for Madame des
Ursins to obtain.  The King, too, treated the Duc and Duchesse d'Albe, throughout the evening
with marked respect, and placed the latter in the most distinguished position, not only in
the ball-room but at supper.  When he went to bed, too, he gave the Duc d'Albe his candlestick;
an honour the importance of which I have already described.

