"'You must get on the outside of the car again,' I cried. 'Do it quickly, without disturbing
him. Then I will pull you down, down, a little at a time. When you are far enough down--and
I will be the judge of that--I will give you the word; then you must jump. It will not hurt
you; the water will break your fall, and I will save you. Think of nothing else but your trust
in me, and jump. The moment you leave the car I let go the rope; then it will instantly be
too far for him to jump. Quick! Be ready when I give the word.' And as I spoke I hauled steadily
upon the rope.

"Irene looked at me for an instant, and then she stood up in the car. I saw her put one foot
upon the seat which surrounds it; then quickly appeared the other foot upon the edge of the
car. She raised both arms and joined her hands above her head; she pushed herself between the
ropes and leaped. It was all the work of a second.

"She came down beautifully, head foremost. It was a splendid dive. Relieved of her weight,
the balloon gave a great jerk, and I let go the rope.

"Irene went down into the water as cleanly and smoothly as if she had been a diving duck. She
scarcely made a splash. She was a magnificent swimmer.

"As my dear Irene disappeared beneath the surface of the water I made use of the rapid moments
in which I could not expect to see her in glancing upward. The tiger was rising rapidly. His
head was stretched out over the edge of the car; I could see his wild and frightened eyes.
He was afraid to jump.

"Then I turned to the water. The head of Irene had risen above it; she was striking out bravely
for the shore. She did not need my help. She is a grand woman! In a few moments we stood beside
each other on the shore. I would have thrown myself into her arms; I would have embraced this
dear one, now my own again: but she was so wet; I was so wet. We seized each other by the hands.
It is impossible to say whether she wept or not, her face was so wet.

"Then by a sudden instinct we looked upward. The balloon was high above us, rising steadily.
We could see the head of the tiger projecting from the car--now such a little head, but I knew
that he was gazing at me. Then we heard a sound which came down from above. It was the tiger's
roar, but it was such a little roar! I clasped more tightly the hand of my Irene; we did not
speak, but gazed steadily upward at the balloon, which had reached a current of air which was
carrying it across the country. The sun was now very hot; the gas was expanding; the balloon
was rising higher and higher and higher.

"We stood holding each other's hands and gazing. At last there was but a little black spot
in the sky; then it faded and shivered, and was gone. Side by side we moved away. We were very
wet, but the sun was hot.

"Suddenly I spoke. I could not restrain my burning desire to look deep into the soul of Irene.
I owed it to my love of her to know the extent of her love for me. Those words which she called
down from the car, which might have been her last words on earth, what were they? I asked her.

"'I said,' she answered, 'that if you would pick up that rifle you threw out, and stand ready,
I would jerk open the safety-valve. I would then take up my rifle, and when the car came down
we would both shoot him. But you shook your head, and I said no more.'

"I did not answer, but in my heart I said: 'O woman! What art thou, and of what strange feelings
art thou made! Thou hast the beauty of the flower and the intellect of the leaf. To let that
awful black-and-yellow fiend descend to the earth! To call up to a cruel death and ask it to
come down-stairs and meet you on the lowest step! Skies! How can the mind of man conceive of it?'

"And leaving the shores of the river, we toiled homeward over the dreary wastes."

The company were all much interested in this narrative--almost painfully interested. They said
as much to the Frenchman, and he was pleased at the impression he had felt sure he would make,
and which he always did make, when he told that story. They talked of hunts and wild beasts,
but there were no comments upon the story itself. Each one had his or her own thought, however.
The Master of the House thought: "What a clever woman!" The Mistress of the House thought:
"Just like a Frenchman!" The Next Neighbor wished she had been in the balloon to pitch the
tiger on him. The Daughter of the House was fascinated at the idea of the vicinity of the beautiful,
ferocious tiger. And John Gayther thought, as he looked wistfully at the Daughter of the House:
"I am glad he has a wife!"

                       THIS STORY IS TOLD BY

                         POMONA AND JONAS

                           AND IS CALLED

                    THE FOREIGN PRINCE AND THE
                         HERMIT'S DAUGHTER

VII

THE FOREIGN PRINCE AND THE HERMIT'S DAUGHTER

The Frenchman went away; and after him there was a succession of visitors to the house who
were not interested in gardens and were therefore not introduced within the sacred precincts
of the summer-house on the upper terrace. The young people took a fancy to a pretty rustic
arbor in a secluded spot; but whether it was because they especially admired that part of the
garden did not transpire.

But the guests left, one after another; and finally there came to visit the family Euphemia
and her Husband. They were old and intimate friends of the family, and the very morning after
their arrival they all repaired to the summer-house which overlooked the garden. There was
some conversation about the garden,--its beautiful things, and its useful products, and its
antiquity,--for Euphemia loved the old garden and its traditions.

The two gentlemen, provided with comfortable chairs, smoked their cigars in peacefulness and
content, and the Daughter of the House seemed absorbed in some fancy work. But after some time
the Master of the House, turning suddenly to Euphemia's Husband, asked: "What has become of
Jonas and Pomona?"

"Here they are to answer for themselves!" cried the Daughter of the House, springing up, as
John Gayther ushered into the garden the Next Neighbor, followed by Pomona and Jonas. The Next
Neighbor was also on intimate terms with Euphemia and her Husband, and a devoted and rapturous
admirer of Pomona. The couple had descended upon her the night before in a most unexpected
fashion, but she gave them a hearty welcome, and rejoiced in them, even after she discovered
that she owed the visit to a desire on the part of her guests to see Euphemia's Husband. They
knew where he was visiting, but had thought it wiser to go to the Next Neighbor to pay their
little visit. And so the explanation of this apparently strange meeting of so many old friends
was simple enough.

Chairs and benches were found, and John Gayther brought his stool unasked and joined the party.
He had no idea of missing that conversation.

It was soon evident that, while Jonas was as tranquil as usual, Pomona had something on her
mind--that she had come with a purpose; and as soon as the inquiries and explanations were
over, she addressed the Husband of Euphemia with great earnestness:

"Jone and me came to see you, sir, about something particular; and as we are all friends here,
I may as well say it right out."

"The more you say the better we shall be pleased!" the Master of the House exclaimed.

Pomona nodded to him, but turned again to the Husband of Euphemia.

"We've been told, sir, that some editors have been asking you to get us to enter fiction again;
and what we want to say is that we don't want to enter it no more. What we did when we was
in it was all very well, but that's past and gone, although I've said to Jone a good many more
times than once that if I had to do this or that thing now, that's set down in the book, I'd
do it different. But then he always answers that if I'd done that I'd have spoiled the story,
and so there was no more to say on that subject. What we've done we gladly did, and we're more
than glad we did it for you, sir. But as for doing it again, we can't do it, for it ain't in
us. Even if we tried to do the best we could for you, all you'd get would be something like
skim-milk--good enough for cottage cheese and bonnyclabber, but nothing like good fresh milk
with the cream on it."

"I think you are perfectly right," said Euphemia. "If you don't want to go into fiction again
you ought not to be made to do it."

"I would not do such a wicked thing as to put anybody in fiction who did not want to go there,"
gravely replied the Husband of Euphemia.

At these words the load that was on Pomona's mind dropped from it entirely.

"Now, sir," said she, "we've got another thing to say; and it will seem queer to you after
what we've said already. We do want to go into fiction, but not the way we was in it before.
The fact is that between us we've written a story, and we've brought it with us, hoping you
wouldn't mind letting Jone read it to you. Of course we was expecting to read it to only two;
but as we've got to go back to-day, if the rest of the folks don't mind, Jone can read it anyway."

"I should like it above all things!" exclaimed the Next Neighbor.

"We will not let you go away until it is read," said the Mistress of the House.

"Oh, I do want to hear it!" cried the Daughter of the House.

"Of course Jonas must read it," was Euphemia's quiet comment.

"Heave ahead!" called out the Master of the House.

Pomona smiled gratefully. "It isn't a very long story, but we've been a long time working at
it, and we wouldn't think of such a thing as calling it finished until our friends has heard it."

The quiet and good-natured Jonas now drew a manuscript from his pocket and began.

"The name of my story," said he, "is 'The Foreign Prince and the Hermit's Daughter.'"

"We thought of a good many other names for it," said Pomona, "and I wanted to call it 'The
Groundless Prince'; but Jone he said that groundless applies to things there is no reason for,
and as so many princes are of that kind, somebody's feelings might be hurt. And so I gave in."

"Now this is the way the story begins," said Jonas. "In that period of time which is not modern,
and yet is not too far back, and in which a great many out-of-the-way things have happened,
a certain young Prince went travelling in foreign parts of the world with the general purpose
of broadening his mind. He wanted to study the manners and customs of other nations in order
that he might better know how to govern his own people.

"But when, after several years' absence, he came back to the place of his nativity, he found
that neighboring nations had made war upon his country--that they had conquered his army and
subjugated his people, and had partitioned his principality among themselves. Consequently
he found himself in a strange position: he had gone forth to visit foreign lands, and now he
returned to find himself a foreigner on the very spot where he was born. In fact, his nationality
had been swept away; his country had disappeared.

"But he was still a prince. Nothing could deprive him of his noble birth. But to all the world,
save to one person, he was an alien prince, and must always so continue. The exception was
a Single Adherent, who had followed him when he began his travels, and whose loyal spirit would
not suffer him to leave his master now.

"Slowly, with crossed arms and head bent low, the Prince strode away from the place that had
once been his home, his Single Adherent following his footsteps.

"After a long day's journey they came to a little valley chiefly remarkable for streams and
rocks. Here, at the entrance of a commodious cave, he beheld an elderly hermit seated upon
a stone, calmly surveying the sunset sky. The hermit looked up with a pleasant smile, for it
had been long since a traveller had passed that way; and, perceiving that the stranger was
not only well-bred but tired, invited him to take a seat upon a stone near by his own, at the
same time motioning the Adherent to a smaller stone at a little distance.

"In reply to the numerous questions of the hermit, the Prince soon told his story.

"'Well, well!' exclaimed the hermit. 'Then you are the Prince Ferrando. I might have known
it, for you so closely resemble your father.'

"'You knew him, then?' inquired the Prince.

"'I have often seen him,' the hermit replied. 'The likeness is wonderful. And so you have come
back to find that your principality does not exist. It is a strange condition of things; but
believe me--I mingled a great deal with the world before I came to this cave, and I know what
I am talking about--when I tell you that there are many potentates who would be glad to come
back from a journey and to find that their dominions had ceased to exist, and that with them
had disappeared all the trials, responsibilities, and dangers of sovereignty.'

"'But I am not that sort of person,' said Ferrando. 'I do not allow care to oppress me; I do
not shrink from responsibility; I am not afraid of danger. I travelled far to broaden my mind;
I came back prepared to reign wisely over my subjects. But I have no subjects, and therefore
I cannot exercise that enlightened rule for which I have, with so much toil and study, prepared
myself. Wherever I go I must always be an absolute alien, and as such I must try to learn to
consider myself.'

"'Cheer up, my friend,' said the hermit. 'You are too young to give up things in that way.
And now allow me, sir, to introduce you to my daughter.'

"Ferrando sprang up quickly, and beheld standing near him a very handsome young woman carrying
a large basket filled with water-cress. The Prince bowed low. 'It is very unusual, I think,'
said he, 'for a hermit to have a daughter.'

"The hermit smiled. 'Yes,' said he; 'it is rather out of the common; but when I came here to
seek rest and peace within these rocky walls, my daughter could not be dissuaded from accompanying
me.'

"'It is plain that she possesses a noble soul,' said the Prince, again bowing low.

"'I wonder if he ever thinks that of me?' the Single Adherent asked himself, as he stood respectfully
by his low stone.

"When the hermit's daughter had been made aware of Ferrando's former station and his misfortunes,
she went away to prepare supper. The meal was soon ready, and consisted of cress fresh from
the spring, fried cress, and toasted cress, with cress tea, and also freshly drawn water from
a spring."

"Poor young man!" exclaimed the Next Neighbor. "So tired and hungry! Was that all they had
to give him?"

"Of course," explained Pomona; "hermits never eat anything but water-cress."

"After supper," continued Jonas, "the hermit filled a pipe with dried water-cress, and offered
another to his guest, and the three sat at the entrance of the cave and discussed the Prince's
affairs, in which the hermit and his daughter seemed to take a lively interest. At a little
distance on the small stone sat the Single Adherent, also smoking a pipe of water-cress, and
his inability to enjoy this novel sensation was plainly evident in the radiant beams of the
full moon. In the course of an hour the Prince and his Adherent retired to a guest-cave near
by; but the hermit and his daughter sat up far into the night discussing the Prince and the
peculiar circumstances in which he found himself.

"The next morning after breakfast, the principal dish of which was a salmi of water-cress,
the hermit, his daughter, and their guest held council together; while the Adherent stood at
a respectful distance, and listened with earnest attention to all that was said.

"'My daughter and I,' said the hermit, 'agree that it is a lamentable thing that a prince such
as yourself, so eminently qualified to rule, should have no opportunity to exercise his abilities
for sovereignty; therefore we think the best thing you can do is to rent a principality for
a term of years. In some ways this would be better than inheriting one, for if you do not like
it you can give it up at the end of the term.'

"'But where could I find a principality to let?' exclaimed the Prince. 'I never heard of anything
like that!'

"'Very likely,' said the hermit; 'but if you were to look around I think you might find something
to suit you which the reigning potentate might be willing to lease.'

"'I am of my father's opinion,' said the hermit's daughter; 'and if you will take my advice
you will investigate the country north of this valley. There are several principalities in
that direction, and it would not at all surprise me if, before the end of a day's journey,
you were to find something that could be rented.'

"The Prince was very much pleased with the interest taken in his affairs by the hermit and
his daughter, and he decided to follow their advice. As he and his Single Adherent were about
to depart, the hermit said to him: 'I shall be very glad to hear from you, and, if you should
succeed in renting a principality, I will willingly give you any advice and assistance in my
power. When I mingled with the general world I saw a great deal of governing and all that sort
of thing, and it may be I can give you some points which will be of advantage to you.'

"The Prince accepted with thankfulness the kind offer of his host, and when he approached the
daughter to take leave of her, she graciously stuck a sprig of water-cress in his buttonhole.

"After walking a few miles the Prince and his Adherent stopped at a roadside inn, where they
ate an abnormal breakfast, and then, with invigorated bodies, they continued their journey.

"Late in the afternoon the Prince became a little tired, and suggested that they stop at a
farm-house which stood near the road, and sojourn there for the night. The Adherent, however,
was of the opinion that they should go on until they reached the crest of a hill before them;
they would then be able to survey the country. He placed a high opinion on the statement of
the hermit's daughter that they would be likely to find what they wanted before nightfall.

"When they reached the crest of the hill they were delighted to see before them, at no great
distance, a small city. When they had approached it nearer they perceived by the side of the
great gate a sign-board which bore the inscription:

                  PRINCIPALITY TO LET--FURNISHED
                  APPLY TO DOWAGER AT THE PALACE

"The Single Adherent nodded his head as he said to himself: 'This is just about what I expected.'

"'That hermit's daughter,' said the Prince, 'is a remarkable young woman, and her suppositions
should not be disregarded.'

"After passing the night at an inn near the gate, the Prince and his Single Adherent repaired
to the palace to make inquiries regarding the principality.

"The Dowager was a middle-aged woman dressed in rusty black, with a quick eye and an eager
expression. Having demanded references of Ferrando, she declared herself perfectly satisfied
with his statements, for she had met his father, and the likeness was unmistakable. She told
him she would be very much pleased to have him for a tenant, and that she was quite sure the
principality would suit him exactly. She then showed him all over the palace, the Adherent
following and taking notice of everything.

"The furniture and appointments of the princely mansion were somewhat time-worn and shabby,
and the Dowager, noticing the scrutinizing glances of the Adherent, thought it wise to state
that during the life of her late husband everything in the palace had been kept in the most
admirable order; but of course it could not be supposed that she, by herself, could go to the
expense of new carpets and furniture-coverings. She assured the Prince, however, that a very
little expenditure of money would make the palace look as bright and clean as if it had been
recently furnished.

"'Of course you have an army,' remarked the Prince.

"'Oh, yes,' said the Dowager; 'an excellent army--that is, considering the size of my principality.
The infantry is very good indeed. In fact, I heard my late husband say, on an occasion when
the infantry corps had just been furnished with new uniforms, that he never saw a finer-looking
set of men. The cavalry is also in excellent condition. Of course in time of peace it is not
necessary to keep these men supplied with horses, but in an agricultural country it is not
difficult to obtain horses whenever they are really needed.'

"'And the artillery?' inquired the Prince.

"'I am sorry to say,' replied the Dowager, 'that the artillery is not yet supplied with cannon.
It was the intention of my late husband to furnish them with the necessary cannon, ammunition,
horses, and all that, but he never did so. And of course, being a woman, I could not be expected
to attend to such things. But I have no doubt whatever that you can easily and inexpensively
put this branch of the army on a proper footing; that is, if you care for artillery.'

"The Prince asked no further questions about the army, but inquired if the principality was
furnished with a navy.

"'Oh, no,' said the Dowager; 'we have no waterfront, and my late husband used often to say
that this impossibility of having a navy saved him a great deal of expense, to say nothing
of the trouble warships might get him into when they are out of sight in distant parts of the
world.'

"At this point the Dowager was called out by a servant, who in a whisper asked her if the visitors
were going to stay to dinner. The Adherent seized this opportunity to say in a low voice:

"'If your Royal Highness will excuse me, I will suggest that you ask if there is a legislative
body, and a judiciary.'

"The Dowager, having shaken her head at the servant, returned to the Prince.

"'Have you a legislature?' asked the Prince.

"'Certainly,' she said. 'I cannot say that I think it is a very good one, for I have more trouble
with it than with anything else in the principality; but it has now less than a year to run,
and my advice would be that you should not convene it again. My experience has taught me that
one can get along a great deal better without a legislative body than with one. For my part,
I do not approve of them at all.'

"'And a judiciary?' remarked the Prince. 'I suppose you have that.'

"The Dowager hesitated a moment as if she did not exactly understand; but she recovered herself,
and answered quickly: 'Oh, yes, we have one; but I have so little to do with it that for the
moment I forgot it. It has been a very good one indeed, but it has been little used of late,
and it may be out of order. I have found that plain, straightforward decrees from the throne
are a great deal cheaper and a great deal quicker in their operation than a judicial decision.
But if you desire a regularly organized judiciary, it will not cost you much to establish one,
if you do not employ your judges by the month or year. I find piece-work a great deal more
satisfactory, and you can get so much law for nothing in this country that it is not worth
while giving much for it when you have to pay.'

"The countenance of the Single Adherent had been growing darker and darker, and he now stepped
up to the Prince.

"'Your Royal Highness,' said he, 'it might be well to speak of the rent.'

"When the Prince asked the Dowager how much she wanted per year for her principality, she did
not immediately answer, but reflected, with her chin in her hand; and then, turning to the
Prince, she stated the amount.

"'You must understand,' she added, 'that I would not rent this principality to every one for
such a sum as that; but as I know you to be a regular prince who will appreciate the advantages
and responsibilities of a place like this, and, as you are unmarried, without encumbrances
of any sort, I presume, I would much prefer to let it to you, even at a lower price, than to
rent it to a perfect stranger.'

"When the Adherent heard the sum mentioned by the Dowager his countenance grew almost black,
and Prince Ferrando stood in silent amazement.

"'It would be impossible for me to pay such a sum as that,' he said at last. 'I have studied
political economy, and am familiar with the principles of internal revenue, and the income
to be derived from ordinary taxes and imposts in a principality of this size would not enable
me to pay that sum.'

"'Oh, you are very much mistaken!' cried the Dowager. 'Of course, as a woman, I have not been
able to make the principality pay me what it ought to; but my late husband received a very
good revenue from it, and I am sure you could do the same, if not a great deal better: for
my late husband was not a good business man; he thought too much of other people and not enough
of his family.'

"The Prince looked at his Adherent, and the latter shook his head violently.

"'It is impossible,' said Prince Ferrando; 'I cannot pay such a sum as that'; and he rose to go.

"'Of course,' said the Dowager, hastily, 'if you think that is too much, and that you would
not be able to pay it, I might take off something in your case. I would not do this for everybody,
but as it is you, I will take off one per cent. of the amount I have named.'

"For a moment Ferrando stood undecided. He greatly wanted the principality; he would be homeless
and forlorn without one; and yet this Dowager was asking him a most outrageous price.

"'I will consider this matter,' said he, 'and if you will give me the refusal of the principality
for twenty-four hours I will see you again to-morrow.'

"The Dowager considered this request as favorable to her interests, and, fearing that she had
asked him too little, she added: 'Of course, in case of a reduction like this, it must be stipulated
in the lease that I reserve some rooms in the palace where I shall board at your expense. You
cannot expect me to accept a reduced rent, and to be turned out of my house besides.'

"The Prince bowed; and, without reply, he and his Adherent left the palace, followed by the
eager, wistful glances of the Dowager. When they reached the inn the Prince said to his Single
Adherent:

"'I am greatly troubled, and I wish I had the advice of that good hermit. I will write a letter
to him, and you shall take it. But you must not walk that long distance; to-morrow you will
hire a vehicle and go to the hermit.'

"The Prince wrote his letter, and the Adherent took it to the hermit. The good man and his
daughter read it with the greatest interest, and retired to the back of the cave to consider
it. Presently the hermit approached the Single Adherent. 'Is there room in your vehicle for
three persons?' said he. Receiving an affirmative answer, he continued: 'Then my daughter and
I will go back with you. We think the Prince is in danger of making a very bad bargain; and
as we know a great deal about these things, we believe that our presence and advice will be
of great advantage to him.'

"So, after the horse had all the water-cress it could eat, the little party started back to
the city."

"They must have been the first real-estate agents," remarked the Master of the House.

Pomona was about to reply, but Jonas gave no time:

"When the Prince heard the sound of the wheels, and came down to the door of the inn, he was
amazed and delighted to see the hermit and his daughter, and welcomed them with unusual ardor.

"'Of all the people in the world,' he exclaimed, 'I am most happy to see you! I am in great
trouble and difficulty, and I want your advice and counsel.'

"'Which is what we came to give you,' said the good hermit, as he warmly pressed the hand of
the Prince.

"After supper the Prince and his guests retired to an inner room for consultation, while the
Adherent stood in the background. After some discussion it was decided that early in the morning
the Prince should go to the palace, and should agree to lease the principality for five years,
provided the Dowager would accept one half the sum she had originally asked; and that he should
also absolutely refuse to board the Dowager, or to allow her to reserve any part of the palace
for her own use. He would promise to pay one quarter's rent in advance if these terms were
agreed upon on the spot.

"It was nearly high noon on the following day that the Dowager left the palace, taking with
her all her belongings. As she departed she turned and cast a black look at the Adherent.

"'It is to his advice,' she said to herself, 'that I owe this very bad bargain that I have
made. If that young fellow had been left to himself he would have agreed to everything I demanded.'

"For an hour or two before she left the Prince had been wandering around the premises, impatiently
waiting for her departure. As soon as she was gone, he called to his Adherent, and sent him
to the inn to summon the hermit and his daughter to his presence. He wished to be grateful
to these good friends, but, as he had a respect to appearances, he did not desire the Dowager
to know that these humble persons were to be his first guests in the palace.

"When the hermit and his daughter arrived at the palace they received a princely welcome, and
Ferrando informed them that he wished them to make him a visit of at least a week.

"'You have been so good to me that I wish to do the best for you; and so I have arranged that
you shall occupy the state suite in the right wing.'

"'We are thankful for this great honor,' said the hermit; 'but, if it would please your Royal
Highness, we should prefer the corresponding rooms in the left wing. We think they will suit
us better.'

"The Prince raised his eyebrows in surprise, but he gave orders that his guests' wishes should
be gratified. The Adherent, who was standing in the background, raised his eyebrows also; but
he was not surprised.

"In about half an hour the hermit and his daughter rejoined the Prince in the grand hall. To
his utter amazement, Ferrando beheld his guests dressed in rich and handsome garments.

"'Did they bring any trunks with them?' he whispered to his Adherent, as they approached.

"'No, your Royal Highness,' was the answer. 'They brought nothing but a basket of water-cress,
which the lady said had been freshly picked and ought not to be wasted.'

"With great dignity the hermit advanced to the Prince, and by his side walked his daughter,
who was so beautiful in her silks and laces that the Prince found it impossible to remove his
eyes from her.

"'In order to explain this change in our appearance,' said the hermit, 'I will state that the
Dowager from whom you rented this principality is my brother's widow. Before he died he arranged
that the Dowager should reign over the principality as long as she lived, and that my daughter
should then succeed her. At the same time, knowing that his wife did not understand the governing
of principalities, he appointed me Assistant Prince, with a salary. This seemed like a very
good plan, but it did not work. The Dowager soon showed such a disposition to meddle with everything
that was going on that my position gradually became so intolerable that I determined to retire
to a hermit's cell, to which my daughter accompanied me.'

"With his mind scarcely able to grasp the situation, the Prince gazed from the one to the other
of his guests. 'Can it be possible,' he said presently, 'that in renting this principality
I have interfered with your prospects?'

"'Oh, not at all, not at all,' replied the hermit. 'In the first place, you have given us the
great honor of visiting you and of occupying our old suite of apartments. I cannot describe
to your Royal Highness the pleasure I felt when I saw my dressing-gown hanging on its accustomed
hook, with my favorite slippers beneath it.'

"'I take back my invitation for a week!' cried the Prince. 'Now that I know who you are, you
must stay with me for a long time. I wish you could stay always,' he added, his eyes still
fixed upon the beautiful young woman. Then, as if to explain this outburst of interest, he
said: 'You know, I rely so much on your advice and counsel, and there is no knowing what that
Dowager may do next.'

"'You are right,' said the ex-hermit; 'there is no possible way of knowing. But a plan has
suggested itself to me which I think may relieve you of any possible annoyance or molestation.
My idea is that you shall marry my daughter. Then, in virtue of your lease, you will reign
over the principality, and she will be your consort. After a time, when the Dowager departs
this life, my daughter, by virtue of inheritance, will reign over the principality, and you
will be her consort. Thus you see the Dowager will have no show at all.'

"The countenance of the Prince shone like the sun. 'A heaven-born plan!' he cried. 'From the
moment I saw your daughter with the basket of water-cress, I loved her. By your permission,
I will embrace her.'

"The permission was given, and he embraced her. She might have said that, from the moment she
had understood the peculiar circumstances in which the Prince had found himself, her heart
had gone out to him like a dove seeking the nest of its partner; but she did not think it needful
to occupy the time with unnecessary statements.

"'Your Royal Highness,' said the Adherent, approaching with a bow, 'I think it is only right
to inform you that the Dowager, when she left, said to me that she would return early in the
afternoon to superintend the removal of her parrots.'

"'What!' cried the Prince. 'Haven't those beastly birds gone yet? Send them after her without
the loss of a minute. I don't want to see her back here again.'

"The ex-hermit, who had drawn his daughter aside for a few words of consultation, now advanced
with uplifted hands. 'Nay,' said he; 'if you will excuse me, I think I can suggest a better
plan than that. The old lady is bound to come back, and the sooner she comes and goes, the
better; but we should be prepared for her. I suggest that a priest be summoned, and that you
and my daughter be married immediately. Our position in the palace will then be assured, and
the Dowager will have nothing to say, either about our presence here or about anything else.
How does my plan suit your Royal Highness?'

"Ferrando did not answer, but, turning to the Adherent, he ordered him to summon a priest without
delay, and to order the assemblage in the great hall of all the courtiers and servants who
could be found. The Adherent sped away on his errand, and as he did so he smiled and said to
himself: 'She is a better manager than the old woman! And her views are broader!'

"When the marriage ceremony had been concluded, the Prince ordered a sumptuous wedding-feast
to be spread. But he was soon informed that there was nothing to eat in the house, for the
Dowager had not thought it at all incumbent upon her to provide eatables for her tenant.

"'It matters not!' cried the ex-hermit, his face glowing with pleasure. 'There will be time
enough to provide a good supper. And, in the meantime, what could be more appropriate for a
wedding-repast than the basket of cress which my daughter brought with her?'

"A table was spread, with a great dish of water-cress in the centre. And it may be remarked
that the Prince was so wild with delight that if this had been suddenly changed to one containing
fried chicken with cream gravy he would not have perceived the difference.

"Early in the afternoon the Dowager returned to the palace to superintend the removal of her
parrots. As she entered the great hall she perceived the wedding-party waiting to receive her;
and her amazement was such that her toes turned upward and she sat down with great suddenness
in a chair which the Adherent thoughtfully placed behind her.

"'How do you do, my dear sister-in-law?' said the ex-hermit. 'I do not wonder you are surprised
to see us here, and in order to relieve your mind I will instantly explain the state of affairs.'
Whereupon he explained them.

"The Dowager then found her voice and her strength. Springing to her feet, she cried: 'This
is a plot! I have been deceived, and the lease is void. Not one of you has any right in this
palace, and I hereby order you out.'

"The ex-hermit smiled, and drew a paper from his pocket. 'Before we obey your orders, my dear
sister-in-law,' he remarked, 'I wish to call your attention to a little business matter. You
will remember that when I was here with you, acting as your assistant, you found great difficulty
in paying me my salary. The first year you told me to take it out of the customs duties. The
sum I received was not equal to the amount due me, but I made no complaint. The second year
I was obliged to rely on the taxes on internal production; but as you required most of the
income from this source, I found myself very short of money at the end of the year. The third
year I was obliged to rely upon the taxes on pew-rents; and that, as you are aware, yielded
me almost nothing. After that you paid me no salary at all. Here is my bill for the money due
me. But if you cannot conveniently pay me, I will agree, in the presence of these good friends,
to postpone the settlement until the next time I lay my eyes upon you. If you do not then pay
me, I shall then levy upon your personal possessions.'

"The Dowager glared at the Princess Ferrando, and, having shaken her long forefinger at that
beautiful young lady, she departed, and was never seen in the palace again."

Here Jonas folded the paper.

"Is that the end?" asked the Daughter of the House.

"That is all there is of it," said Jonas, sententiously.

"I thought," said the Daughter of the House, "that the story would tell how he governed his
rented principality, and if he ever got his own. I worked it out in my mind like a flash that
he would govern so well that his own people would go to him and beg him to govern them."

"I think," said the Next Neighbor, "that if that principality was governed at all, it was by
that scheming wife."

"There's two ways of ending a story," said Pomona. "One is to wind it up, and the other is
to let it run down. Now when a story is running down as if it was a clock, it's often a good
deal longer than you think before it stops; so we thought we would wind this one up right there."

Euphemia laughed. "But if you wind it up," she said, "you help it to keep on going."

For a moment Pomona looked embarrassed; but she quickly recovered herself. "I don't mean to
wind it up like a clock," she said, "but to wind it up like an old-fashioned clothes-line which
isn't wanted again until you have some more things to hang on it."

The Husband of Euphemia stated it as his opinion that that was an excellent way to stop a story;
but Euphemia did not agree with him. "I think," she said, "that a story of that kind ought
to end with a moral. They nearly always do."

Pomona now looked at Jonas, and Jonas looked at Pomona.

"Several times, when we was writing the story," said Pomona, "I had a notion that Jone was
trying to squeeze a moral into it here and there; but he didn't say nothing about it, and I
didn't ask him, and if there's anything more to say about it, it's for him to do it."

Jonas smiled. "My opinion about morals to stories is that the people who read them ought to
work them out for themselves," said he. "Some people work out one kind of moral, and others
work out another kind. It was a pretty big job to write that story, which I had to do the most
of, and I don't think I ought to be called on to put in any moral, which is a good deal like
being asked to make bread for the man who buys my wheat."

Pomona looked down at the ground, then up to the sky, and then she remarked:

"If you wouldn't mind hearing a little bit of a story, I'd like to tell you one." No one had
any wish to object, and she began: "Once there was a young married man who went to his business
in a canoe; every morning he paddled himself down to his business, and every afternoon he paddled
himself back. About half-way down the beautiful stream on which he lived there was a little
point of rocks projecting out into the water, and the young man was obliged to paddle his canoe
very near the opposite shore in order to get out of the way. This was troublesome, and after
a while he got tired of it. It would be very much pleasanter, he thought, if he could paddle
along the middle of the stream, without thinking about the rocks. So when, one morning, he
was in a great hurry, he said to himself that he would steer his canoe right straight against
that point of rocks and break it off. After that he would have a clear passage up and down
the stream. So as soon as he got near enough he carried out his plan. That young man did not
go to his office that morning, and the fragments of his canoe was picked up by a poor family
and used for kindling-wood. Now," she added, looking deliberately at Jonas, "if you can find
a good moral to that story we'd be glad to hear it."

It was very evident to the listeners that Pomona had given a shrewd guess as to the moral of
the story Jonas had read, if, indeed, he had had in his mind any moral at all--and that her
own was an offset to it, or so intended. So the Next Neighbor came to the rescue.

"I have a great dislike," she announced, "to morals of all sorts. I prefer never to think of
morals. They are very perplexing, and often worse than useless. But if there are any morals
to those two stories, I should say that the first story has something to do with women who
manage too much; and the second, in some occult manner, deals with men who try to reform their
wives."

Here every one laughed. And then there followed a lively criticism of the story Jonas had read;
but they all agreed that it was worthy of Pomona and Jonas, and should be published. When they
had reached this conclusion they were summoned to luncheon.

                       THIS STORY IS TOLD BY

                     THE DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE

                           AND IS CALLED

                       THE CONSCIOUS AMANDA

VIII

THE CONSCIOUS AMANDA

One morning, as John Gayther was working in the melon-bed, the Daughter of the House came to
him, and greeted him with such a glow on her face that John knew she had something pleasant
to tell him.

"Yes, miss," John replied to her greeting; "it is a beautiful morning, and I know of something
more beautiful than the morning."

"I do not see any very great beauty in muskmelons," said the Daughter of the House, demurely.

"Muskmelons are not in my mind at this minute," John replied, letting the hoe fall upon the
ground as he looked at her pretty face, all aglow.

"I have something in my mind, John--a very original story. Papa said yesterday I must tell
a story, and I have one all ready. I do not believe you ever heard one like it. Come to the
summer-house; mamma and papa are already there."

She tripped away, and John followed her, stopping on the way to pick up a basket of seed-pods.
He had just established himself on his stool, facing the family group, and had taken some pods
to shell as he listened, when his hand was arrested and all the party silenced by a burst of
song from the tall lilac-bushes near the hedge. They could not see the bird, but it was evident
that he was enjoying his own melody. Such pure, sweet notes--now rippling softly, now with
a gay little quiver of joy, now a tender prolonged note, now a succession of trills, high and
low, that set the air throbbing, and every now and then a great burst of seraphic music, as
if his little heart was so full of happiness he was compelled to pour it forth to all who chose
to listen. Our party would gladly have listened for a long time, and have omitted the story
altogether; but after some minutes of delicious song the strains suddenly ceased, and a little
whirring noise in the lilacs indicated that the bird had flown away.

The Daughter of the House gave a deep sigh. "I was afraid to breathe," she said, "lest he might
fly away."

"I have heard nothing like that this summer," said the Mistress of the House.

"It is the red thrush," said John Gayther, who had listened rapturously. "A pair of them were
here in the early spring. I wonder why this one has come back."

"Perhaps," said the Daughter of the House, "it is one of the young ones come back to visit
his birthplace. I am afraid, after that ravishing performance, that my story will sound tame
enough."

"It will be a different sort of melody," said the Mistress of the House, looking fondly at
her daughter.

"My heroine," began the young lady, "cannot appear in the first person, as if she were telling
the story; nor in the second person, as if she were listening to one; nor in the third person,
as if she were somewhere else; for, in fact, she was not anywhere. And as there is no such
thing as a fourth person in grammar, she cannot be put into any class at all."

The captain turned and looked at his daughter. "There seems to be something very foggy about
this statement," said he. "I hope the weather will soon clear up, so we can get our bearings."

"We shall see about that," said the young lady. "This heroine of mine, Miss Amanda, never went
to sleep. To be sure, she sank into slumber about as often as most people; but when she spoke
of having done so she always said she had 'lost consciousness.' She was very methodical about
going to sleep and waking up; and at night, just as she was about to lose consciousness, she
always said to herself, 'Seven o'clock, seven o'clock, seven o'clock,' over and over again
until she was really asleep; and in the morning she woke up at seven precisely. She was not
married, and so she was able to live her own life much more independently than if the case
had been different. She liked to be independent; and she liked to know as much as she could
about everything. In these two things she was generally very successful. But you must not think
she was prying or too inquisitive; she was really a very good woman, and very fond of her family,
which was composed entirely of brothers and sisters and nephews and nieces.

"She was a very active person, but she was not very strong; and when she was nearly forty years
old something happened to her lungs, and her health gave way more and more, until at last there
was no hope for her, and she knew she must die."

"Oh, this is an awful way to begin a story!" said the captain. "I don't like it. You ought
not to kill your heroine just as you begin."

"If you want to make any remarks about this story, papa," said the Daughter of the House, "which
shall be worth anything, you ought to wait until you hear more of it and begin to understand
it. When Miss Amanda found she had a very little while to live, she composed herself comfortably,
and began to repeat to herself the words, 'Fifty years, fifty years, fifty years,' over and
over again. This she did until at last she died; and then there was her funeral; and she was
buried; and there was a stone put up over her head with her name on it."

John Gayther smiled with approbation. He felt sure he was going to hear a story to his liking.
The captain smoked steadily. As he had been advised, he would wait until he felt firm ground
beneath him before he made any further remarks. As for the Mistress of the House, she looked
at her daughter, and wondered. The story continued:

"All this happened a few years before the middle of a century, and a few years before the end
of a century Miss Amanda regained consciousness. That is to say, she woke up at the end of
fifty years, exactly as she had been in the habit of waking up at seven o'clock in the morning.
But although she was conscious she did not understand how it was possible she should be so.
She did not see; she did not hear; she did not feel. She had no body; no hands or feet; no
eyes or ears: she had nothing; and she knew she had nothing. She simply was conscious, and
that was all there was about it. She was not surprised; she seemed to take her state and condition
as a matter of course, and, to a certain degree, she comprehended it. She remembered perfectly
well that she had lost consciousness as she was saying 'Fifty years, fifty years, fifty years'
over and over again; and now she knew that, as she had regained consciousness, the fifty years
must have passed; so, instead of wondering how things had come to be as they were, she, or
rather her consciousness, set itself to work to observe everything around it and about it.
This had always been Miss Amanda's habit of mind.

"Now I want to explain," said the young lady, "that in one way it will be troublesome for me
to express myself exactly as I tell this story. Of course Miss Amanda did not exist; it was
only her consciousness which observed things: but I think it will be a great deal less awkward
for me if I speak of that consciousness as Miss Amanda. None of us really understands consciousnesses
with their outsides all hulled off as John is doing with those seeds which he drops into the
basin. Each one of those little seeds has within it a power which we do not understand. And
that is the way with Miss Amanda's consciousness."

"There," said the captain; "I agree with you. Nobody can object to that."

"The first thing of which Miss Amanda became conscious was the smell of sweet peas. She had
always been very fond of these flowers. The air was soft and warm, and that, too, was pleasant
to her. She observed a good many other things, such as trees and grass; but she did not know
where she was, and she did not see anything she could recognize. You must not forget that when
I say she saw anything, I mean she became conscious of it. Presently, however, she did perceive
something that was familiar, and if such a thing had been possible her face would have flushed
with pleasure. This familiar object was a sun-dial in the middle of a wide grass-mound. The
sun-dial was of brass. It was very old, and some of the figures on the round plate were nearly
obliterated by time and weather; but Miss Amanda recognized it. It was the same sun-dial she
had always known in the home where she had been born. But it was not mounted on a round brick
pillar, as when she had known it: now it rested on a handsome stone pedestal; but it was the
same sun-dial. She could see the place where the upright part had been mended after her nephew
John, then only fourteen, had thrown a stone at it, being jealous of it because it would never
do any work in bad weather, whereas he had to go to school, rain or shine.

"'Now,' thought Miss Amanda, 'if this is the old sun-dial, and if this is the mound in front
of our house, although it is so much smaller than I remember it, the dear old house must be
just behind it.' But when she became conscious in that direction, the dear old house was not
there. There was a house, but it looked new and handsome. It had marble steps, with railings
and a portico, but it was another house altogether, and everything seemed to be something else
except the sun-dial, and even that did not rest on the old brick pillar with projections at
the bottom, on which she used to stand, when she was a little girl, in order to see what time
it was.

"Now Miss Amanda felt lonely, and a little frightened. She had never been accustomed to finding
herself in places entirely strange to her. She felt, too, that she was there in that place,
and could not be anywhere else even if she wanted to, and this produced in her a condition
which, half a century before, would have been nervousness. But suddenly she perceived something
which, although strange, was very pleasant. It was a young girl upon a bicycle coming swiftly
toward her over a wide, smooth driveway. Miss Amanda had never been conscious of a bicycle;
and as the girl swept rapidly on, it seemed as if she were skimming over the earth without
support. At the foot of the marble steps the girl stopped and seemed to fall to the ground;
but she had not fallen: she had only stepped lightly from the machine, which she leaned against
a post, and then walked rapidly toward the place where the sweet peas grew.

"Miss Amanda greatly admired this girl. She was dressed in an extremely pretty fashion, with
a straw hat and short skirts, something like the peasants in southern Europe. She began to
pick the sweet-pea blossoms, and soon had a large bunch of them. Now steps were heard coming
round the house, and the girl, turning her head, called out: 'Oh, grandpa, wait a minute. I
am picking these flowers for you.' From around one end of the house, which was a large one,
Miss Amanda saw approaching an elderly gentleman who was small, with short gray hair and a
round, ruddy face. He walked briskly, and with a light switch, which he carried in his hand,
he made strokes at the heads of a few fluffy dandelions which appeared here and there; but
he never hit any of them.

"Instantly Miss Amanda knew him: it was her nephew John--the same boy who had broken the sun-dial!
No matter what his age might happen to be, he had the same bright eyes, and the same habit
of striking at things without hitting them. Yes, it was John. There could be no possible mistake
about it. It was that harum-scarum young scapegrace John. If Miss Amanda had had a heart, it
would have gone out to that dear old boy; if she had had eyes they would have been filled with
tears of affection as she gazed on him. Of all her family he had been most dear to her, although,
as he had often told her, there was no one in the world who found so much fault with him.

"The old gentleman sat down on a rustic seat beneath a walnut-tree, and his granddaughter came
running to him, filling the air with the odor of sweet peas. She seated herself at the other
end of the bench, and let the flowers drop into her lap. 'Grandpa,' said she, 'these are for
you, but I am only going to give you one of them now for your buttonhole. The rest I will put
in a vase in your study. But I wanted you to stop here anyway, for I have something to tell you.'

"'Tell on,' said he, when the girl had put a spray bearing three blossoms into his buttonhole.
'Is it anything you want me to do this afternoon?'

"'It isn't anything I want you to do ever,' she said. 'It is about something I must do, and
it is just this: grandpa, there are two gentlemen who are about to propose to me, and I think
they will do it very soon.'

"'How in the world do you know that?' he exclaimed. 'Have they sent you printed notices?'

"'How is it that anybody knows such a thing?' she answered. 'We feel it, and we can't be expected
to explain it. You must have felt such things when you were young, for I have been told you
were often in love.'

"'Never in my life,' said her grandfather, 'have I felt that a young woman was about to propose
to me.'

"'Oh, nonsense!' said the girl, laughing. 'But you could feel that she would like you to propose
to her. That's the way it would be in your case.'

"Miss Amanda listened with the most eager and overpowering attention. Often in love! That young
scapegrace John! But she had no doubt of it. When she had last known him he was not yet eighteen,
and he had had several love-scrapes. Of course he must have married, for here was his granddaughter;
and who in the world could he have taken to wife? Could it have been that Rebecca Hendricks--that
bold, black-eyed girl, who, as everybody knew, had tried so hard to get him? With all the strength
of her consciousness Miss Amanda hoped it had not been Rebecca. There was another girl, Mildred
Winchester, a sweet young thing, and in every way desirable, whom Miss Amanda had picked out
for him when he should be old enough to think about such things, which at that time he wasn't.
Rebecca Hendricks ought to have been ashamed of herself. Now she did hope most earnestly that
she would hear something which would let her know he had married Mildred Winchester.

"'Well,' said the old gentleman, 'if they do propose, as you seem to have some occult reason
for suspecting, have you made up your mind which of them you are going to take?'

"'That is the trouble,' said the girl, a very serious look coming over her face. 'I have not
made up my mind what I ought to do. I know I ought to be prepared to give the proper answer
to the one who speaks first, whichever one he may be; but I cannot come to a decision which
satisfies me, and that is the reason, grandpa, I wanted to talk to you about it. Of course
you know who they are--George and Mr. Berkeley.'

"'My dear Mildred,' said the old gentleman, turning quickly around so that he could face her,
'just listen to me.'

"'Mildred, Mildred!' thought Miss Amanda, and her consciousness was pervaded by a joyful thankfulness
which knew no limits. 'She must have been named after her grandmother. He surely married Mildred.'
And Miss Amanda gazed on the scapegrace John with more affection than she had ever known before.
But in the midst of her joy she could not help wondering who it was that that Rebecca Hendricks
had finally succeeded in getting. That she got somebody Miss Amanda had not the slightest doubt.

"'Mildred,' said the old gentleman, 'just listen to me. This is a most important thing you
have told me, and I have only this to say about it: if you can't make up your mind which one
of those young men you will take when they propose, make up your mind now, this minute, not
to have either of them. If you love either one of them as you ought to love the man who shall
be your husband, you will have no difficulty in deciding. Therefore, if you have a difficulty,
you do not really love either of them.'

"For a few minutes the girl sat quietly looking down at the flowers in her lap, and then she
said: 'But, grandpa, suppose I do not understand myself properly? Perhaps after a while I might
come to a--'

"'After a while,' interrupted her grandfather. 'That will not do. You want to understand yourself
before a lover proposes to you, not afterwards.'"

The captain sat up straight in his chair. "Now look here," he said; but he addressed the Mistress
of the House, not the story-teller. "How does this daughter of ours come to know all these
things about lovers, and the weather-signs which indicate proposals of marriage, and all that?
Has she been going about in society, making investigations into the rudiments of matrimony,
during my last cruise? And would you mind telling me if any young men have been giving her
lessons in love-affairs? John Gayther, have you seen any stray lovers prowling about your garden
of late?"

The gardener smiled, and said he had seen no such persons. But he said nothing about a very
true friend of the Daughter of the House, who lived in a small house in the garden, and who
would have been very well pleased to break the head of any stray lover who should wander into
his precincts.

"You don't know girls, my dear," said the Mistress of the House, "and you don't know what comes
to them naturally, and how much they have to learn. So please let the story go on."

"'Of course,' said the old gentleman, 'I know who they are. Considering how often they have
been here of late, I could not well make a mistake about that; and although I am not in favor
of anything of the sort, and feel very much inclined to put up a sign, "No lovering on these
premises," still, I am a reasonable person' ('You must have changed very much if you are, you
dear boy!' thought Miss Amanda), 'and know what is due to young people, and I am obliged to
admit that these young men are good enough as young men go. But the making a choice! That is
what I object to. I would advise you, my dear, not to think anything more about it until the
time shall come when you feel there is no need of making a choice because the thing has settled
itself.'

"'But, grandpa,' she said, 'what am I to say if they ask me? I am bound to say something.'

"The old gentleman did not reply, but began switching at some invisible dandelions. 'What you
tell me,' he said presently, 'reminds me of my Aunt Amanda. She was a fine woman, and she had
two lovers.' ('You little round-faced scamp!' thought Miss Amanda. 'Are you going to tell that
child all my love-affairs? And what do you know about them, anyway? I never confided in you.
You were nothing but a boy, although you were a very inquisitive one, always wanting to know
things, and what you have found out is beyond me to imagine.')

"'Your Aunt Amanda,' said Mildred. 'That's the one in the oval frame in the parlor. She must
have been very pretty.'

"'Indeed she was,' said the old gentleman. 'That portrait was painted when she was quite a
young girl; but she was pretty until the day of her death. I used to be very fond of her, and
thought her the most beautiful being on earth. She always dressed well, and wore curls. Even
when she was scolding me I used to sit and look at her, and think that if such a lady, a little
bit younger perhaps, but not much, were shut up in a castle with a window to it, I would be
delighted to be a knight in armor, and to fight with retainers at the door of that castle until
I got her out and rode away with her sitting on the crupper of my saddle, the horse being always,
as I well remember, a gray one dappled with dark spots, with powerful haunches and a black
tail.' ('You dear boy,' murmured Miss Amanda, 'if I had known that I could not have scolded!')
'Well, as I said before, she had two lovers. One was a handsome young fellow named Garrett
Bridges.'

"'It seems to me I have heard that name,' said Mildred.

"'Very likely, very likely,' said her grandfather. 'It has been mentioned a great many times
in our family. Garrett had been intended for the army, but he did not get through West Point,
and at the time he was making love to my Aunt Amanda his only business was that of expecting
an inheritance. But he was so brave and gay and self-confident, and was so handsome and dashing,
that everybody said he would be sure to get along, no matter what line of life he undertook.'
('I wonder,' thought Miss Amanda, 'what he did do, after all. I hope I shall hear that.') 'Her
other lover,' said the old gentleman, 'was Randolph Castine, a very different sort of young
man.' ('You unmitigated little story-teller!' ejaculated Miss Amanda. 'He never made love to
me for one minute in his whole life. I wish I could speak to John--oh, I wish I could speak
to John!') 'So, then,' continued the old gentleman, 'here were the two young men, both loving
my Aunt Amanda; and here was I, intensely jealous of them both.'

"'Oh, grandfather,' laughed Mildred, 'how could you be that?'

"'Easily enough,' said he. 'I was very impressionable and of a very affectionate turn of mind.'
('You had very queer ways of showing it, you young scamp!' said Miss Amanda.) 'And I remember,
when I was about ten years old, I once asked my mother if it were wicked to marry aunts; and
when she told me it would not do, I said I was very sorry, for I would like to marry Aunt Amanda.
I liked her better than anybody else except my mother, and I was sure there was no other person
who would take more from me, and slap back less, than Aunt Amanda.' ('I remember that very
well,' thought the happy consciousness; 'and when your mother told me about it, how we both
laughed!')

"'Well, the better I liked my Aunt Amanda, the less I liked anybody who made love to her; and
one night, as I was sitting on the edge of my bed,--it must have been nearly eleven o'clock,--I
vowed a vow, which I vowed I would never break, that no presumptuous interloper, especially
Garrett Bridges, should ever marry my Aunt Amanda. As to Randolph Castine or any other suitor,
I did not think them really worthy of consideration. Garrett Bridges was the dangerous man.
He was at our house nearly every day, and, apart from his special obnoxiousness as a suitor
to my Aunt Amanda, I hated him on my own account, for he treated me as if I were nothing but
a boy.' ('And why shouldn't he?' murmured Miss Amanda. 'You were nearly grown up at that time,
but you really behaved more like a boy than a man, and that was one reason I was so fond of you.')

"'I had a good many plans for freeing my Aunt Amanda from the clutches of Mr. Bridges; but
the best of them, and the one I finally determined upon, pleased me very much because it was
romantic and adventurous. It seemed to me the best way to prevent Mr. Bridges from marrying
my Aunt Amanda was to make him marry some one else, and I thought I could do this. There was
a girl named Rebecca Hendricks, who lived about a mile from our house, with whom I was very
well acquainted. She was a first-class girl in many ways.' ('I would like to know what they
were!' exclaimed Miss Amanda. 'I think she was about sixth-class, no matter how you looked
at her.') 'For one thing, she was very plucky, and ready for any kind of fun. I knew she liked
Mr. Bridges, because I had heard her say so, and her praise of him had frequently annoyed me
very much; for I did not want a friend of mine, as she professed to be, to think favorably
in any way of such a man as Garrett Bridges. But things were now getting serious, and I did
not hesitate to sacrifice my feelings for the sake of my Aunt Amanda. I was always ready to
do that.' ('Not always, my boy,' thought Miss Amanda; 'not always, I am afraid.') 'So I resolved
to get up a match between Rebecca and Garrett Bridges. As I thought over the matter, it seemed
to me that they were exactly suited to each other.' ('That's queer!' thought Miss Amanda. 'I
always supposed you thought she was exactly suited to you.') 'Of course I could not say anything
to Bridges about the matter, but I went over to Rebecca, and told her the whole plan. She laughed
at me, and said it was all pure nonsense, and that if she were going to marry at all she would
a great deal rather marry me than Mr. Bridges. But I told her seriously it was of no use to
think of me. In the first place, I was four years younger than she was; and then, I had made
up my mind never to marry, no, never, as long as my Aunt Amanda lived. I was going to take
care of her when she grew elderly, and I wanted nobody to interfere with that purpose.' ('You
dear boy!' said Miss Amanda, with a sort of choke in her affectionate consciousness. 'That
is so like you--so like you! And yet I thought you were in love with that Rebecca.') 'Of course
I did not give up my plan because she talked in that way,' continued the old gentleman. 'I
knew her; I had studied her carefully. Like most boys of my age, I was a deep-minded student
of human nature, and could see through and through people.'

"'Of course,' laughed Mildred. 'I have known boys just like that.'

"'But I was about right in regard to Rebecca,' said her grandfather. 'I kept on talking to
her, and it was not long before she agreed to let me bring Mr. Bridges to see her--they were
not acquainted. I had no trouble with him, for he was always glad to know pretty girls, and
he had seen Rebecca. There never was a piece of match-making which succeeded better than that,
and it delighted me to act as prompter of the play, while those two were the actors, and I
was also the author of the piece.'

"'Grandpa,' said Mildred, 'don't you think all that was rather wrong?'

"'I did not think so then,' he answered, 'and I am not sure I think so now; for really they
were very well suited to each other, and there did seem to be danger that the man might marry
my Aunt Amanda, and that, as it seemed to me then, and seems to me now, would have been a deplorable
thing.' ('If you had known a little more, you scheming youngster,' said Miss Amanda, 'you would
have understood that there was not the least danger of anything of the kind--that is to say,
I am not sure there was any danger.') 'It was not long after these two people became acquainted
before I had additional cause for congratulating myself that I had done a wise and prudent
thing. Bridges came to see my Aunt Amanda every afternoon, just the same as he had been in
the habit of doing, and yet he spent nearly every evening with Rebecca; and that proved to
me he was not a fit lover for my Aunt Amanda, no matter how you looked at it.'

"'But the young girl,' said Mildred. 'Didn't you think he was also too fickle for her?'

"'Oh, no,' said the old gentleman; 'I was quite positive that Rebecca could manage him when
she got him. She would make him walk straight. I knew her; she was a great girl. Every morning
I went to see her to inquire how things were coming on, and she told me one day that Mr. Bridges
had proposed to her, and that she had accepted him, and that it was of no use to say anything
about it to her father, because he would be sure to be dead set against it. Her mother was
not living, and she kept house for her father, who was a doctor, and he had often said he would
not let her marry anybody who would not come there and live with him; and, judging from what
she had heard him say of Garrett Bridges on one or two occasions, she did not feel encouraged
to propose this arrangement for him.

"'So the plan they agreed upon--which, in fact, I suggested, although Rebecca would never have
admitted it--was to go off quietly and get married. Then she could write to her father and
tell him all about it, and when his anger had cooled down they could make him a visit, and
it would depend on him what they should do next. I worked out the whole plan of operation,
which Rebecca afterwards laid before Mr. Bridges as the result of her own ingenuity, for which
he commended her very much. They both agreed--and you may be sure I did not disagree with them--that
the sooner they were married the better. The equinoctial storms were expected before very long,
and then a wedding-trip would be unpleasant and sloppy. So they fixed on a certain Wednesday,
which suited me very well because my father and mother would then be away from home on a visit,
and that would make it easier for me to do my part.' ('You little schemer!' said Miss Amanda.
'Of course you suggested that Wednesday.')

"'This place was quite in the country then, and eight miles from a station, and there was only
one train to town, at seven o'clock in the morning. If they could get to the village where
the station was at quarter-past six, they would have time to get married before the train came.
Old Mr. Lawrence, the Methodist minister, was always up at six o'clock, and he could easily
marry them in twenty minutes, and that would give them lots of time to catch the train. I would
furnish the conveyance to take them to the village, and would also attend to Rebecca's baggage.
Mr. Bridges could have his trunk taken to the station without exciting suspicion. At five o'clock
in the morning, I told Rebecca, I would have a horse and buggy tied to a tree by the roadside
at a little distance from the doctor's house where the lovers were to meet.

"'The night before, Rebecca was to put all the clothes she wanted to take with her in a pillow-case,
which she was to carry to a woodshed near the house. Soon after they started in the buggy I
would arrive with a spring-wagon and an empty trunk. I would then get the pillow-case, put
it into the trunk, and drive to the station by another road.

"'Mr. Bridges approved of this plan, and thought she was very clever to devise it. So everything
was settled, and I went to the stable the day before, and told Peter I wanted him to get up
very early the next morning, and put old Ripstaver in the buggy, and drive him over to Dr. Hendricks's.
I told him he must be there before five o'clock, and that he was to tie the horse to a maple-tree
this side of the front yard. I said one of the doctor's family had to get to the village very
early because there were some things to be done before the train came, and it had been agreed
we should lend our buggy. Peter was not quite pleased with the arrangement, and asked why we
did not send the old mare--we only kept two horses; but I said she was too slow, and it had
been specially arranged that the buggy, with Ripstaver, should be sent. Peter was a great friend
of mine, so he agreed to do what I asked, and said he did not mind walking back.' ('I never
would have believed,' said Miss Amanda, 'that the boy had such a mind. If I had only known
what he was planning to do! If I had only known! But even if I had, it is so hard to tell what
is right.')

"'My Aunt Amanda was not in the habit of meddling with anything about the barn or stable; but
that afternoon--and I never knew why--she went to the barn, and found Peter dusting off the
buggy. He told me she asked if anybody was going to use the buggy that evening, and he replied
he was getting it ready to take over to the Hendrickses' in the morning, as some one there
wanted to go to the village before the train started for the city. Then she asked what horse
he was going to put to it, and he told her old Ripstaver. Then she said she did not think that
was a good plan, because Ripstaver was hard to drive, and it would be a great deal better to
send the old mare. Peter agreed to this, and so it happened that when I went to the barn the
next morning, as soon as I had seen Peter drive away in the buggy, I found the only horse in
the stable was old Ripstaver. I was mad enough, I can tell you; for if Rebecca made any noise
and woke her father he could overtake that old mare long before she could get to the village.
I never did understand how my Aunt Amanda happened to meddle that afternoon.'

"('Of course you couldn't,' said Miss Amanda. 'You were a fine little manager; but when I looked
out of my window that afternoon and saw a boy carrying a trunk to the barn I was very likely
to suspect something; and when I went down to the barn myself and found Peter getting the buggy
ready to go away early the next morning, I suspected a great deal more. I did not know what
to do, for I did not want to make a scandal by letting Peter know anything was out of the way,
and all I could think of was to have a slow horse put in the buggy instead of a fast one. I
thought that might help, anyway.')

"'Well,' continued the old gentleman, 'there was nothing for me to do but to take Ripstaver
and the spring-wagon and go after Rebecca's baggage. When I reached the doctor's house, and
found the buggy had gone, I got the pillow-case, put it into the trunk, and started off on
a back road which joined the turnpike a couple of miles farther on. Near the junction of the
two roads was a high hill from which I hoped I might be able to see the buggy, and, if so,
I would follow it at a safe distance. As soon as I got to the top of this hill I did see the
buggy; but I saw more than that--I saw another buggy not far behind it. There was a roan horse
in this one which I knew to belong to the doctor. Bridges was whipping our old mare like everything,
and she was doing her best, and galloping; but the doctor's roan was a good one, and he was
gaining on them very fast. It was a beautiful race, and I felt like clapping and cheering the
doctor, for, although he was spoiling my game, it was a splendid thing to see him driving his
roan so fast and so steadily, never letting him break out of a regular trot, and I hated Bridges
so much I was glad to see anybody getting the better of him.

"'It was not long before the doctor's buggy caught up with the other one, and then they both
stopped; everybody got out, and there must have been a grand talk, but of course I could not
hear any of it. The doctor shook his fist, and I could see they were having a lively time.
After a bit they stopped talking, the doctor took Rebecca into his buggy and drove back, and
Garrett Bridges got into our buggy and went slowly toward the station--to see about his trunk,
I suppose. I did not lose any time after that, but drove to the doctor's as fast as old Ripstaver
could travel, and I had Rebecca's pillow-case in the woodshed before the doctor arrived. Now
I never was able to imagine how the doctor found out that Rebecca had gone. She did not know
herself. She said she got out of the house without making any more noise than a cat; and as
for her father waking up at the sound of wheels in the public road, that was ridiculous; if
he had heard them he would not have paid any attention to them. That was one of the queer things
neither of us ever found out.'

"Miss Amanda was amused. ('Of course you didn't; it was not intended that you should. How could
you know that, being greatly troubled, I woke up very early that morning, and when I found
you were not in your room I put on my overshoes and walked across the fields to Dr. Hendricks's.
I did not get there as soon as I hoped I would; but when I rang the door-bell, and the doctor
himself came to the door, and I told him I did not want to see him but Rebecca, and he went
to look for her and found her gone, and I confided to him as a great secret what I was sure
had happened, it did not take him long to get his horse and buggy and go after her. And how
glad I was she had our old mare, and not Ripstaver! But I thought all the time it was you she
had run away with, and I never knew until now that it wasn't. The doctor told me afterwards
that he and his daughter had agreed not to say anything about it, and he advised me to do the
same; but the sly old fellow never told me it was Mr. Bridges and not you. But if I had only
known who really was running away with her, I would not have walked across those wet pasture-fields
that chilly morning--that is, I do not think I would have done it.')

"'But one thing I did know,' said the old gentleman, 'which I often regretted; and that was
that if my Aunt Amanda had not meddled with the horses and so spoiled my plan, Rebecca Hendricks
would have married Mr. Bridges, and several evil consequences would have been avoided.' ('I
wonder what they were?' thought Miss Amanda.) 'Well, things went on pretty much as they had
been going on, and that Garrett Bridges came every day, just as bold as brass, to see my Aunt
Amanda, who, of course, knew nothing of his trying to run away with Rebecca. Sometimes I thought
of telling her, but that would have made a dreadful mess, and I was bound in honor not to say
a word about Rebecca.

"'Mr. Randolph Castine sometimes came to our house, but not often, and I began to wish he would
court my Aunt Amanda and marry her. If she had to marry, he would be a thousand times better
than Garrett Bridges, and I thought I could go to his house--which was a beautiful one, with
hunting and fishing--to see her, and perhaps make long stays in the summer-time, which would
have been utterly impossible in the case of Garrett Bridges.' ('You would have been welcome
enough in any home of mine,' said Miss Amanda. 'But you are utterly mistaken about Mr. Castine.
Alas! he was no lover at all.') 'But although Mr. Castine was a splendid man in every way,
he was not a bold lover like Garrett Bridges, and after a while he seemed to get tired and
went off to travel. Not very long after that Bridges went off, too. I think perhaps he had
received part of the inheritance he was expecting; but I am not sure about that. Anyway, he
went. And then my Aunt Amanda had no lover but me.

"'Very soon her health began to fail, and this went on for some time, and nothing did her any
good. At last she took to her bed. It seemed to me the weaker and thinner she got the more
beautiful she became, and I did everything I could for her, which, of course, was not any good.
I remember very well that at this time she never lectured me about anything; but she sometimes
mentioned Rebecca Hendricks, always to the effect that she was a very strange girl, and that
she could not help thinking her husband, if she ever got one, would be a man who ought to be
pitied. I think she was afraid I might marry her; but she need not have worried herself about
that--I never had the slightest idea of any such nonsense.' ('But I had every reason to suppose
you had such an idea,' said Miss Amanda, 'considering I thought you had tried to run away with
her.')

"'Well,' said the old gentleman, 'there is not much more of the story. My Aunt Amanda died,
and our family was in great grief for a long time; but none of them grieved as much as I did.'
(If Miss Amanda could have embraced her dear nephew John, she would have done so that minute.)
'Then, greatly to our surprise, Randolph Castine suddenly came home. He had heard of my Aunt
Amanda's dangerous condition, and he had hurried back to see her and to tell her something
before she died. He told my mother, to whom he confided everything, that he had been passionately
in love with my Aunt Amanda for a long time, but that he had been so sure she was going to
marry Mr. Bridges that he had never given her any reason to suppose he cared for her, which
I said then, and I say now, was a very poor way of managing love business. If he had spoken,
everything would have been all right, and my Aunt Amanda might have been living now; there
are plenty of people who live to be ninety. I am positively sure, now, that she was just as
much in love with him as he was with her.'

"Miss Amanda now suffered a great and sudden pain: she seemed to exist only in her memory of
her great love for Randolph Castine, and in this present knowledge that he had loved her. Oh,
why had she been told that in life she had been dreaming, and that only now she had come to
know what had been real! Nothing that was said, nothing that was visible, impressed her consciousness
just then; but presently some words of her nephew John forced themselves upon her attention.

"'So she never knew, and he never knew, and two lives were ruined; and she died,' the old gentleman
continued, 'my mother thought, as much from disappointed love as from anything else.'

"'And what became of Mr. Castine?' asked Mildred, who had been listening with tears in her eyes.

"'He went away again,' said her grandfather, 'and stayed away a long time; and at last he married
a very pleasant lady because he thought it was his duty, having such a fine estate, which ought
to be lived on and enjoyed.'

"'Did he have any children?' asked Mildred.

"'Yes; one daughter, who married a Mr. Berkeley of Queen Mary County. It was considered a good
match.'

"'Berkeley!' exclaimed the young girl, moving so suddenly toward her grandfather that all the
sweet peas in her lap fell suddenly to the ground. 'Berkeley! Why, Arthur Berkeley comes from
Queen Mary County! Do you mean he is the grandson of Mr. Castine?'

"'Exactly; that is who he is,' said the old gentleman.

"Mildred sat for a few minutes without saying a word, looking at the ground. 'Grandpa,' she
said presently, 'do you know I believe all the time my mind was made up, and I did not know
it. And after what you have told me of Arthur Berkeley, grandpa, and your Aunt Amanda, I really
think I know myself a great deal better than I did before; and if Arthur should ask me--that
is, if he ever does--'

"'And he surely will,' said her grandfather, 'for he came to me this morning, like the honorable
fellow he is, and obtained permission to do so.'

"'Grandpa!' exclaimed Mildred; and as she looked up at him there was no beauty in any sweet-pea
blossom, or in any other flower on earth, which could equal the brightness and the beauty of
her face.

"The pain faded out of the consciousness of Miss Amanda. 'And this is the way it ends!' she
murmured. 'This is the way it ends. John's granddaughter and his grandson.' And now it was
not pain, but a quiet happiness, which pervaded her consciousness.

"The grandfather and granddaughter rose from the rustic bench and walked slowly toward the
house. Miss Amanda looked after them, and blessed them; then she gazed upon the sweet peas
on the ground; then she looked once more upon the old dial, still bravely marking each sunny
hour; and then, slowly and gradually, Miss Amanda lost consciousness, without saying to herself,
'Seven o'clock' or 'Fifty years' or any other period of time.

"That is the end," said the young lady.

"And quite time!" exclaimed the Master of the House. "Madam," he said, turning to his wife,
"did you know of all this knowledge of which your daughter seems possessed--of boy's nature,
and woman's love, and the human heart, and all the rest of it? I can't fathom her with my longest
line!"

"You may as well give up all idea of that sort of sounding," said the Mistress of the House.
"There is no line long enough to fathom the human heart."

"I am thinking," said John Gayther, as he rattled the seeds in the pan, "whether it was worth
while for Amanda to become conscious for so short a time, and just to hear a tale like that."

"Was it worth while to learn that the man she had wanted to love her had really loved her?"
asked the Daughter of the House, eagerly.

"It doesn't seem the sort of love to wait fifty years to hear about," said John. "I don't like
the way they have in novels of making folks keep back things that men and women couldn't help
telling."

"Then you don't like my story, John," said the Daughter of the House, in a disappointed tone.

"Indeed, but I do, miss," he replied quickly. "As a story it is just perfect; but as real doings
it doesn't pan out square. But then, it is meant for a story, and it couldn't be better or
more unlike other stories told here. Nobody could have thought that out that hadn't a deep mind."

The young lady looked critically at John, but she saw he really meant what he said, and she
was satisfied.

                      THIS STORY IS TOLD BY

                        THE OLD PROFESSOR

                          AND IS CALLED

                         MY TRANSLATOPHONE

IX

MY TRANSLATOPHONE

The Professor was very old, but he was well preserved--always spoken of as "hale and hearty."
He still held his position in his college, and still took a good part in teaching mathematics,
but he had an assistant who did the heavy work. He had been principal of the school where the
Mistress of the House received her education, and she was much attached to him, and he always
spent some part of his summer vacation at her house. The Master of the House, of course, was
not there every summer, and so this season the Old Professor had a special treat, for there
were many things he liked to talk about in which he knew the two ladies could take no interest.

It rained for two days after his arrival at the house, but the third morning was bright and
clear, and the Master of the House conducted his visitor to the favorite resort of the family--a
spot the Old Professor knew well and loved. They conversed for a while on some deep subjects,
and then they were joined by the two ladies and the Next Neighbor, and the serious discourse
changed into light talk; and John Gayther coming up to pay his respects to the Old Professor,
the Next Neighbor was seized with an inspiration.

"John," she said, "you must tell us a story. Sit right down and begin 'Once upon a time--'
know I haven't heard a story for a long time."

"Madam," said John, respectfully, "I always do what the ladies tell me to do; and I am more
sorry than I can say, but I have to know beforehand when I am to tell a story, and indeed I
haven't one ready."

"Oh, you are clever and can make up as you go along, as the children say."

"John never tells an impromptu story," said the Mistress of the House. "But, my dear Professor,"
and she turned to the old gentleman, "we are all friends here, and I should so like you to
tell us how you got your wife. You once told it to me, and I should like to know what this
company will think of the way you won her."

The Old Professor smiled. "I know what you think about it, and I know what I think about it;
and, as you say, we are all old friends, and I am rather curious to know what this company
will think about it. I will tell my little story." When they were all ready, he began in a
clear voice:

"If my Mary were living this story would never have been told; but she has been a blessed spirit
now these many years, and has doubtless long known it, and has judged my conduct righteously.
Such is my belief." Here he made a reverent pause, and then began again:

"In my early youth I left, for some two or three years, the beaten track--so to speak--of mathematics;
or, more properly, mechanics. For I interested myself in inventing, with more or less success,
certain scientific machines.

"One of the most successful of these various contrivances, and the one, indeed, in which I
was most deeply interested, was a small machine very much resembling in appearance the tube,
with a mouth-piece at one end and an ear-piece at the other, frequently used by deaf persons,
but very different in its construction and action. In the ordinary instrument the words spoken
into the mouth-piece are carried through the tube to the ear, and are then heard exactly as
they are spoken. When I used my instrument the person spoke into the mouth-piece exactly as
if it were an ordinary tube, but the result was very different, for the great feature of my
invention was that, no matter what language was spoken by the person at the mouth-piece, be
it Greek, Choctaw, or Chinese, the words came to the ear in perfect English.

"This translation was accomplished by means of certain delicate machinery contained in the
end of the mouth-piece, which was longer and larger than that of the ordinary ear-tube, but
the outward appearance of which did not indicate that it held anything extraordinary. It would
take too long to explain this mechanism to you, and you would not be interested; nor is it
necessary to my story.

"When, after countless experiments and disappointments, and days and nights of hard study and
hard work, I finished my little machine, which I called a translatophone, I was naturally anxious
to see how it would work with some other person than myself at the mouth-piece. In the course
of its construction I had frequently tried the machine by putting the ear-piece into my ear
and speaking into the mouth-piece such scraps of foreign languages as I was able to command.
These experiments were generally satisfactory, but I could not be satisfied that the machine
was a success until some one else should speak into it in some foreign tongue of which I knew
positively nothing, so that it would be impossible for me to translate it unconsciously.

"This was not an easy thing, and I had determined I would not explain my invention to the public
until I had assured myself that it worked perfectly, and until I had had my property in the
invention secured to me by patent right. To go to a foreigner and ask him to speak into my
instrument, using a language he could readily assure himself I did not speak or understand,
would be the same thing as an avowal of what the translatophone was intended to do. I thought
of several plans, but none suited me. I did not want to pretend to be deaf, and, even if I
did so, I could not explain why I wished to be spoken to in a language I did not use myself.

"In the midst of my cogitations and uncertainties, I received a note from Mary Armat which,
for a time, drove from my mind all thought of translatophone and everything concerning it.

"Miss Mary Armat and I had been friends since the days in which we went to school together.
I had always liked her above the other girls of my acquaintance, and about three years previous
to the time of this story I had almost made up my mind that I was in love with her, and that
I would tell her so. This, however, I had not done. At that time I had become intensely interested
in some of my inventions, and, although my feelings toward Mary Armat had not in the least
changed, I did not visit her as often as had been my custom, and when I did see her I am afraid
I told her more about mechanical combinations than she cared to hear. But so engrossed was
I that I stupidly failed to notice this, and I did not perceive that I had been neglecting
the most favorable opportunities of declaring the state of my affections until she informed
me, not in a private interview, but in the midst of her family circle, that she had made up
her mind to become a missionary and go to India to work among the heathen. I was greatly shocked,
but I could say nothing then, and afterwards had no opportunity to say anything.

"I did not write to Mary, because she was a most independent and high-spirited girl, and I
knew it must be spoken words and not written ones which would satisfy her that I had had good
reasons for postponing a declaration of love to her until she had left the country.

"So she went to Burma. I frequently heard of her, but we did not correspond. She had gone into
her new work with great zeal. She had learned the Burmese tongue, and had even translated a
little English book into that language. For some time she had seemed well satisfied; but I
heard through her family that she was getting tired of her Eastern life. The rainy seasons
were disagreeable to her, the dry seasons did not agree with her; her school duties were becoming
very monotonous; and she had found out that in her heart she did not care for the heathen,
especially for heathen children. Therefore she had resigned her position and was on her way
home. The note I received from her informed me that she had arrived in New York the day before,
and that she would be very glad if I would come to see her."

"She did a sensible thing, anyway," commented the Master of the House.

The Daughter of the House opened her mouth to say: "I do not like her. She had no enthusiasm,
or real goodness, to give up her work so soon and for such reasons." But she suddenly reflected
that Mary had been the speaker's wife, and she shut her mouth with a little vicious snap.

"I went to the Armat house that evening, and I found there a very lively girl awaiting me.
Her parents and her two sisters had gone out, and we had the parlor to ourselves. Life in Burma
may not have suited Mary Armat, but it certainly had improved her, for she was much more charming
than when I had last seen her. Moreover, she was so very friendly, and without doubt so glad
to see me, she was so bright and full of high spirits, that it might have been supposed she
had arranged matters so that we could have the evening to ourselves, and was eminently pleased
with her success.

"I admired her more and more every time I looked at her, and I determined that, as soon as
the proper time should come, I would make earnest love to her, and tell her what, perhaps,
I should have told her long ago. But just now I had other matters on my mind.

"Above all things I wanted Mary to talk into my translatophone, and to speak in Burmese. I
knew nothing whatever of that language, and if she should speak it, and the words should come
to my ears in pure English, then no further experiment would be necessary, no doubts could
possibly exist. But until I had made this test I did not want her to know what the instrument
was intended to do; it was barely possible she might play a trick on me and speak in English.
But if the thing succeeded I would tell her everything. We two should be the sole owners of
the secret of my great invention--an invention which would not only benefit the English-speaking
world, but which might be adapted to the language of any nation, and which would make us rich
beyond all ordinary probabilities.

"As soon as I had the opportunity I began to speak of the work I had been engaged upon during
Mary's absence; and when I approached the subject I thought I saw on her face an expression
which seemed to say, 'Oh, dear! are you going to begin on that tiresome business again?' But
I was not to be turned from my purpose. Such an opportunity as this was too valuable, too important,
to be slighted or set aside for anything else. In a few minutes I might discover whether this
invention of mine was a success or a failure. I took my translatophone from my pocket, and
laid it on the table beside us.

"'What's that?' she exclaimed. 'You don't mean to tell me you have become hard of hearing?'

"'Oh, no,' said I; 'my hearing is just as good as it ever was.'

"'But that is a thing deaf people use,' she said.

"'Well, yes,' I answered; 'it could be used by deaf people, I suppose, although I have never
tried it in that way. It is my latest and, I think, my most important invention. It would take
too long to explain its mechanism just now--'

"'Indeed it would,' she interrupted quickly.

"'But what I want to do,' I continued, 'is to make a little trial of it with you.'

"'If you mean you want me to speak into that thing,' she said, 'I do not want to do it. I should
hate to think you are deaf and needed anything of the sort. Please put it away; I do not even
like the looks of it.'

"But I persisted; I told her that I greatly desired that she should speak a few sentences in
Burmese into my instrument. I had a certain reason for this which I would explain afterwards.

"'But you do not understand Burmese,' she said in surprise.

"'Not a word of it,' I answered. 'I do not know how it sounds when it is spoken, nor how it
looks when it is written. But there are certain tones and chords, and all that sort of thing,
in the foreign languages which are very interesting, no matter whether you understand the language
or not.'

"'Oh, it is a sort of musical thing, then,' she said.

"'I will not say it is exactly that,' I replied. 'But if you will simply speak to me in Burmese
for a minute or two, that is all I ask of you, and afterwards we can talk about its construction
and object.'

"'Oh, I do not want to talk any more about it,' said she; 'but if it will satisfy you, I will
say a few words to you in Burmese. Do you speak into this hole?' she said as she took up the
instrument.

"I arranged the ear-piece very carefully, and covered my other ear with my hand. Immediately
she began to speak to me, and every word came to me in clear and beautiful English! But I knew,
as well as I knew that I lived, that the words she spoke were Burmese, or belonged to some
other language which she knew I did not understand. The proof of this was in the words themselves.

"'I think you are perfectly horrid,' she said, 'and I am glad to have an opportunity to tell
you so, even though you do not understand me. I cannot imagine how anybody can be so stupid
as to want to talk about horrible ear-trumpets the first time he meets a girl whom he has not
seen for years, and who used to like him so much, and who likes him still in spite of his cruel
stupidity. I wonder why you thought I wanted to see you the minute I got home? I am awfully
disappointed in you, for I did think you would talk to me in a very different way the first
time you saw me. And now I am going to tell you something--and I would rather cut my tongue
out than say it in English, but it gives me a wicked delight to say it in Burmese: I love you,
John Howard. I have loved you for a long time; and that is the reason I went to Burma; and
now that I have come back I am obliged to say that I love you still. If you could invent some
sort of a tube that would make you see better with your eyes and understand better with your
mind, it would be a great deal more suitable than this horrid, snake-like thing for your ear.
I do not suppose you will ever hear me speak this way in English, but I tell you again, John
Howard, that I love you, and it makes me sick to think what a goose you are.'

"'Now, then,' she said, putting down the tube, 'was there anything peculiar in the tones and
chords of that bit of foreign language?'

"Fortunately the only light in the room was behind me, and therefore I had reason to hope that
she did not observe the expression of my countenance. Moreover, as soon as she had finished
speaking she had turned her face away from me, and was now leaning back in her chair, her mouth
tightly shut and her wide-open eyes directed on the opposite wall. She looked like a woman
who had taken a peculiar revenge, and who, in the taking of it, had aroused her soul in its
utmost recesses.

"For some moments I did not answer her question. In fact, I could not speak at all. My thoughts
were in a mad whirl. Not only had I discovered that my invention, the hope of my life, was
an absolute success, but I was most powerfully impressed by the conviction that now I could
never tell Mary what my invention was intended to do, for then she would know what it had done.

"'Yes,' I answered, speaking slowly; 'there was a sort of accord, a kind of--'

"I was interrupted in what would have been a very labored sentence by the ringing of the door-bell.
Mary instantly rose. It was plain she was laboring under suppressed excitement, for there was
no other reason why she should have jumped up in that way. She looked as if she were anxious
to see some one, no matter who it was. I, too, felt relieved by the interruption. In my state
of wildly conflicting emotions any third person would be a relief.

"The door opened, and Miss Sarah Castle walked in. 'Oh, Mary,' she exclaimed, 'I am so glad
to find you at home! As it isn't late and the moon is so bright, I thought I would run over
to see you for a few minutes. Oh, Mr. Howard!'

"Sarah Castle was a young woman for whom I had no fancy. Active in mind and body, and apparently
constructed of thoroughly well-seasoned material, she was quick to notice, eager to know, and
ready at all times to display an interest in the affairs of her friends, with which, in most
cases, said friends would willingly have dispensed. As she took a seat she exclaimed:

"'You don't mean to say, Mary, that you went deaf in Burma?'

"Unfortunately I had forgotten to put my translatophone into my pocket, and it was lying in
full view on the table. Mary gave a scornful glance toward the innocent tube.

"'Oh, that?' she said. 'That is not mine. It belongs to Mr. Howard.'

"The words 'Mr. Howard' grated upon my nerves. Up to this moment, except through the translatophone,
she had not addressed me by my name in any form; and every tentative lover knows that when
his lady addresses him as though he had no name it means that she does not wish to use his
formal title and that the time has not arrived for her to call him by his Christian name.

"'You deaf?' cried Sarah, turning to me. 'I have never heard anything of that. When did it
come on? It must have been very recent.'

"'Oh, he isn't deaf,' said Mary, impatiently. 'It is only one of his inventions. But tell me
something of your brothers. I have not heard a word about them yet.'

"But the knowledge-loving Sarah was not to be bluffed off in this way.

"'Oh, they are all right,' said she. 'They are both in college now. But Mr. Howard deaf! I
am truly amazed. Do you have to talk to him through this, Mary?'

"Mary Armat was not an ill-natured girl, but, as I said before, she was a high-spirited one,
and was at the time in a state of justifiable irritation.

"'Oh, bother that thing!' she answered. 'I told you it is only one of his inventions, and I
wish he would put it in his pocket.'

"'Not just yet,' said Sarah. 'I am really anxious to know about it. Why do you use it, Mr. Howard,
if you are not deaf?'

"My face must have displayed my extreme embarrassment at this unanswerable question, for Mary
came to my relief.

"'Oh, it is a kind of musical instrument,' she said. 'But don't let us talk any more about
it. This is the second time I have seen you, but we have not really had a good chance to say
anything to each other.'

"I took advantage of this very strong hint, and rose.

"'Musical!' exclaimed the irrepressible Sarah. 'Oh, Mr. Howard, please play on it just the
least little bit!'

"Mary allowed herself an expression of extreme disgust. 'Please not while I am present,' she
said; 'I could not abide it.'

"I now advanced to take my leave.

"'Do not go just now,' said Sarah; 'I merely ran over for a minute to ask Mary about the Wilmer
reception; but as you are going, Mr. Howard, you might as well see me home. It is later now.'

"I retired to a book-table at the other end of the parlor, and it was a good deal later when
the two young ladies had finished talking about the Wilmer reception.

"'I do not understand it at all,' said Miss Castle, when we were on the sidewalk. 'You are
not deaf, Mr. Howard, and yet you use an ear-trumpet. What does it mean?'

"Of course I did not know what to say, but I had to say something, and, moreover, that something
must not be wholly inconsistent with my explanation to Mary.

"'Oh, it is a thing,' I answered, 'that is intended to be used in connection with foreign languages.'
Then I made a bold stroke: 'It shows the difference in their resonant rhythms.'

"'Well, I am sure I do not understand that,' said Miss Castle. 'But what is the good of it?
Does it make them any pleasanter to listen to?'

"I admitted that it did.

"'Whether you understand them or not?' she asked.

"If this young woman had at this moment fallen down a coal-hole I cannot truthfully say that
I should have regretted it.

"'I cannot explain that, Miss Castle,' I said, 'for it would take a long time, and here we
are at your door.'

"'Come in and let me try it,' said Sarah.

"'Thank you very much,' I replied, 'but I really cannot. I have an engagement at my club. In
fact, I was just going to take leave of Miss Armat when you came in.'

"She looked at me scrutinizingly. 'You used to call her Mary Armat when you spoke of her,'
said she, 'but I suppose her having been a missionary makes a difference in that way. I do
not believe much in club engagements, but of course we have to recognize them. And if you cannot
come in now I wish you would call on me soon. If your invention has anything to do with foreign
languages I truly want to try it. I am studying German now, and if it will put any resonant
rhythm into that language it will be very interesting.'

"I made a hasty and indefinite promise, and gladly saw the front door shut behind Miss Sarah
Castle.

"That night I did not sleep; in fact, I did not go to bed. The words Mary Armat had spoken
to me in Burmese should have completely engrossed my every thought, but they did not. For one
moment my mind was filled with rapture by the knowledge that I was loved by this lovely girl;
and in the next I was overwhelmed by anxiety as to what should be done to make it impossible
for her to know that I knew she had spoken those words. But whether my thoughts made me happy
or distressed me, there seemed to be but one way out of my troubles; I must be content with
Mary's love, that is, if I should be so fortunate as to secure it. There might be doubts about
this; women are fickle creatures, and Mary had been very much provoked with me when I parted
from her."

"I see what is coming," here interrupted the Next Neighbor, "and I don't approve of it at all!"

"It would be hard," continued the Old Professor, after pausing for further remarks, "to turn
my back upon the golden future which my invention would give to Mary and me; but I must win
her, golden future or not. I sat before my study fire, and planned out my future actions. As
soon as I could see Mary alone I would tell her my love, and I would explain to her why I had
not spoken when I first saw her. But in order to do this I should have to be very careful.
I would say nothing but the truth, but I would be very guarded in telling that truth. She must
not imagine that anything she had said had made me speak. She must not imagine that I thought
she expected me to speak.

"I would begin by asking her pardon for worrying her with my invention when I knew she disliked
problematic mechanics. Then I would tell her, in as few words as possible, that I had expected
this little instrument to give me fame and fortune, and therefore I wanted her to know all
about it; and then, before she could ask me why I wanted her to know this, I would tell her
it was because I wished to lay that fame and fortune at her feet. After that, in the best way
my ardent feelings should dictate, I would offer myself to her without fortune, without fame,
just the plain John Howard who loved her with all his heart. If she accepted me, I would tell
her that the invention had not worked as I had intended it should, and therefore I should put
it behind me forever."

"Oh, dear!" cried the Next Neighbor. "I knew it was coming!"

"Maybe it didn't," said the Master of the House.

"Having come to a decision," the Old Professor went on, with more animation, "upon this most
important matter, my mind grew easier and I became happier. What was anything a black tube
could do for me--what, indeed, was anything in the world--compared to the love of that dear
girl? And so I sat and gazed into the fire, and dreamed waking dreams of blessedness.

"After a time, however, it came to me that I must make up my mind what I was going to do about
the translatophone. I might as well take it apart and throw it into the fire at once, and then
there would be an end to that danger to the future of which I had been dreaming. Yes; there
would be an end to that. But there would also be an end to the great boon I was about to bestow
upon the world, a boon the value of which I had not half understood. It truly was a wonderful
thing--a most wonderful thing. An American or an Englishman, or any one speaking English, could
take with him a translatophone and travel around the world, understanding the language of every
nation, of every people--the polished tongues of civilization, the speech of the scholars of
the Orient, and even the jabber of the wild savages of Africa. To be sure, he could not expect
to answer those who spoke to him, but what of that? He would not wish to speak; he would merely
desire to hear. All he would have to do would be to pretend that he was deaf and dumb, and
my simple translatophone might put him into communication with the minds of every grade and
variety of humanity.

"Then a new thought flashed into my mind. Why only humanity? If I should attach a wide mouth-piece
to my instrument, why should I not gather in the songs and cries of the birds? Why should I
not hear in plain English what they say to each other? Why should not all creation speak to
me so that I could understand? Why should I not know what the dog says when he barks--what
words the hen addresses to her chicks when she clucks to them to follow? Why should I not know
the secrets of what is now to us a tongue-tied world of nature?

"Then I had another idea, that made me jump from my chair and walk the floor. I might know
what the monkeys say when they chatter to each other! What discovery in all natural history
could be so great as this? The thought that these little creatures, so nearly allied to man,
might disclose to me their dispositions, their hopes, their ambitions, their hates, their reflections
upon mankind, had such a sudden and powerful influence on me that I felt like seizing my translatophone
and rushing off to the Zoölogical Gardens. It was now daybreak. I might obtain admission!

"But I speedily dismissed this idea. If I should ever hear in English what the monkeys might
say to me, I must give up Mary. I should be the slave of my discovery. It would be impossible
then to destroy the translatophone. I sat down again before the fire. 'Shall I put an end to
it now?' I said to myself. Nothing would be easier than to take its delicate movements and
smash them on the hearth. Now a prudent thought came to me: suppose Mary should not accept
me? Then, with this great invention lost,--for I never should have the heart to make another,--I
should have nothing left in the world. No; I would be cautious, lest in every way my future
life should be overcast with disappointment. The sun had risen, and I felt I must go out; I
must have air. Before I opened the front door, however, I said to myself, 'Remember it is all
settled. It is Mary you must have--that is, if you can get her.'

"Of all things in this world, the mind of man is the most independent, the most headstrong.
It will work at your bidding as long as it pleases, and then it will strike out at its own
pace and go where it chooses. During a walk of a couple of miles I thought nearly all the time
of what the monkeys might say to me if I should attach a wide mouth-piece to my translatophone
and place it against the bars of their cage. Over and over again I stopped these thoughts and
said to myself: 'But all this is nothing to me. I must consider Mary and nothing else.' Then
in a very few minutes I was wondering if the monkeys would ask me questions--if they have as
strong a desire to know about us as we have to know about them. From such questions how much
I might learn in regard to the mental distance between us and them! But again I put all this
away from me and began to plan anew what I should say to Mary. And then again it was not very
long before I found myself thinking how intensely interesting it would be to know what the
tree-toads say, and what the frogs talk about when they sit calling to each other all night.
It might be a little difficult to get near enough to tree-toads and frogs, but I believed I
could manage it.

"However, when I returned home I was thinking of Mary.

"It was early in the afternoon, and I was trying to decide what would be the best time to visit
the Armat house. The monkeys had not ceased to worry me dreadfully, and I had begun to think
that when bees buzz around their hives they must certainly say something interesting to each
other. Then a note was brought to me from Mary. I tore it open and read:

  "'I want you to come to see me this afternoon. If you possibly can,
  come about four o'clock, and bring that speaking-tube with you. Miss
  Castle has been here nearly all the morning, and some things she has
  said to me have worried me very much. Please come, and do not forget
  the ear-trumpet.'

"This she signed merely with her initials.

"Mary's note drove to the winds monkeys, bees, and the rest of the world. What had that wretched
mischief-maker, that Castle girl, been saying to her? I did not believe that the mind of Mary
Armat was capable of originating an unfounded suspicion of me; but the mind of Sarah Castle
was capable of originating anything. She had doubtless suspected that there must be some extraordinary
reason for my desire to have people talk to me through a tube in a language I did not understand.
She had been too impatient to wait until she could try her German upon me, and she had gone
to Mary and had filled her mind with horrible conjectures. One thing was certain: no matter
what else happened, I must not take that translatophone to Mary. After what Sarah had said
to her there could be no doubt that she would make me speak to her in a foreign language through
the tube. It would be easy enough: she could give me a French book and tell me to read a few
pages. No matter how badly I should pronounce the words, they would reach her ears in pure English!

"And then!

"I took my translatophone from the cabinet in which I kept it. The easiest way to destroy it
was to throw it at once into the fire; but that would fill the house with the smell of burning
rubber. No; it was only necessary to destroy the internal movements. I unscrewed the long mouth-piece,
and gently withdrew from it the little membrane-covered cylinder, not six inches in length,
which formed the soul of my invention. I took it in my hand and gazed upon it. Through its
thin, flexible, and almost transparent outer envelope I could see, as I held it to the light,
its framework, fine as the thread-like bones of a fish, its elastic chords, its quivering diaphragms,
and all the delicate organs of its inner life. It seemed as if I could feel the palpitations
of its heart as I breathed upon it. For how many days and months had I been working on this
subtle invention--working, and thinking, and dreaming! Here it lay, perfect, finished, ready
to tell me more than any man ever has known--a thing almost of life, and ready to be brought
to life by the voice of man or beast or bird, or perhaps of any living thing. Could I have
the heart to destroy it? Could I have the heart to turn my back upon the gate of the world
of wonders which was just opening to me?

"'Yes,' said I to myself; 'I have the heart to do anything that will prevent my losing the
love of Mary Armat.'

"Then an evil thought came to me, and tempted me: 'If you choose you can hear the monkeys talk
and have Mary too. Everything you want is in your own hands. Don't put that little machine
back into the tube. Lock it up safely out of sight, and then go to Mary with your instrument,
and you can talk into it and she can listen, and she may talk and you may listen. Yes, you
may have your Mary--and she need never know that you understand what the monkeys may say to
you, or what she has said to you.'

"I am proud that I entertained this evil thought for but a very short time. I turned upon it
and stormed at it. 'No!' I exclaimed. 'I shall never win Mary by cheating her! Whether I get
her or not, I will be worthy of her.'

"Then there came another thought, apparently innocent and certainly persuasive. 'Do not destroy
the translatophone. Then, if things do not turn out well between you and Mary, you will still
have the monkeys.'

"'No,' I said to myself; 'I must have Mary. I will have nothing to fall back upon. I will allow
nothing to exist that might draw me back.'

"There was another thing I might do: I might take my translatophone to her, and explain everything.
But would there be any possibility, even if she did not fly from me in shame and never see
me again, that I could make her believe in a love which had been so spurred on, even aroused,
as she might well imagine mine had been? No; that would never do. Apart from anything else,
it would be impossible for me to be so cruel as to let Mary know I had understood the Burmese
words she had spoken to me.

"I looked at the clock; it was half-past three. Whatever was to be done must be done now. I
cast one more look of longing affection upon the quivering, throbbing little creature, which
to me was as much alive as if it had been a tired bird panting in my hand; and then I gently
laid it on the hearth. I lifted my left foot and let it hang for an instant over the hopes,
the fears, the anxieties, the happy day-dreams those early years of my life had given me, and
then, with relentless cruelty, not only to that quivering object but to myself, I brought down
my foot with all my strength!

"There was a slight struggle for an instant, during which there came to me quick, muffled sounds,
which to my agitated brain sounded like the moans of despair from that vast world of animal
intelligence which does not speak to man. From my own heart there came a groan. All was over!
From the mysterious inner courts of the animal kingdom no revelations would ever come to me!
The thick curtain between the intelligence of man and the intelligence of beast and bird which
I had raised for a brief moment had now been dropped forever! I should never make another translatophone.

"I cast no glance upon the hearth, but put on my hat and coat and went to Mary. As I walked
there rose behind me a cloud of misty disappointment, while before me there was nothing but
dark uncertainty. What would Mary have to say to me? And how should I explain what would seem
to her to be a cowardly evasion of her plainly expressed request?

"When I entered the Armat parlor I found Mary alone. This encouraged me a little. I had feared
that the yearningly inquisitive Sarah might also be there. In that case how might I hope to
preserve one atom of my secret?

"Mary came forward with a smile, and held out her hand; I was so astonished I could not speak.

"'Now don't be cross,' said she. 'As I told you in my note, Sarah Castle was here this morning,
and she greatly troubled my mind about you. She told me I was actually snappish with you when
she was here last night. She had never heard me speak to any one in such an ill-natured way.
She knew very well that I do not care for inventions and machines, but she did not consider
this any reason for my treating you in such a manner. She said I ought to have known that your
whole soul is wrapped up in the queer things you invent, and that I should have made some allowance
for you, even if I did not care about such things myself. Now when she told me this I knew
that every word was true, and I was utterly ashamed of myself; and as soon as she left I sent
you that note because I wanted you to let me beg your pardon--which you may consider has been
done. And now please let me see your speaking-tube. I want you to explain it to me; I want
to know how it is made, and what is its object. For I know very well that even if your inventions
are not successful they always have very good objects. Please forgive me, and let us sit on
the sofa and have a nice talk together such as we should have had last night.'

"My soul shouted with joy within me, and I said to myself: 'We shall have the nice talk we
should have had last night, but it shall be the talk you wanted then, and not the one you ask
for now.'

"'Now, then,' said she, when we had seated ourselves, 'let us go to work to make experiments
with your tube. I am so glad you do not feel about it as I thought you would.'

"'I did not bring it,' I said.

"'Oh, what a pity!' interrupted Mary.

"'No,' said I; 'it is not a pity. It did not work as I expected it would, and there is no use
in talking any more about it. I placed great hopes in it, and I had a particular reason for
wanting to tell you all about it.' Then I began and bravely told her all about it, that is,
all that justice and kindness would permit me to tell. In the conversation which ensued, which
was a very happy exchange of sentiment, it was wonderful how that translatophone was put into
the background.

"A great deal of what Mary said in answer to my passionate avowals she had already said to
me in Burmese. But the fact that those straightforward, honest words, fresh from a true woman's
heart, and spoken only for the satisfaction of her own frank and impetuous nature, had come
to me before in plain English she did not imagine, nor did I ever allow her to imagine. This
secret of her soul I always regarded as something that came to me in involuntary confidence,
and I always respected that confidence."

"Were you never sorry?" asked the Daughter of the House, when the Old Professor ceased.

"No," he said thoughtfully; "I have never been sorry for what I did. I had a very happy life
with my Mary--a life far happier than any wonder-exciting invention could have given me."

"Was it fair to the world to destroy an instrument that might have been of great advantage
to science?" ventured John Gayther, hesitatingly.

"It is not easy," said the Old Professor, "to decide between what we owe to the world and science,
and what we owe to ourselves. You see, I decided in favor of myself. Possibly another man would
have decided in favor of the invention."

"Not if he were desperately in love," said the Master of the House.

"All those fine-spun feelings were unnecessary," said the Next Neighbor. "If you had not confused
your mind with them you would have seen clearly enough that the first idea which came into
your head was the proper one to act upon. It would have been no terrible deception if you had
taken the instrument to Mary without the little machine and talked English with her. Later
you could have told her you had the invention and you could use it. By that time she would
have forgotten that she ever had made that Burmese speech, and would have been glad of the
fame and fortune the machine would surely have brought."

The Old Professor looked pained. "I do not deny that some such after-thoughts troubled my mind
occasionally for some years. But who can say anything of the 'might have been'? The instrument
might have failed, after all; or the information gained have proved not worth the hearing; or--"

Here there was an unlooked-for interruption. The red thrush suddenly burst into song from the
midst of the lilac-bushes, and the whole company listened spellbound with delight while the
little creature filled the air with melody and sweetness.

When the song ceased, the Professor remarked: "My translatophone would have been worse than
useless here. If I could have heard those words I should have lost that delicious melody. Doubtless
the words were commonplace enough, but the melody was divine. And it was easy to interpret
the spirit of it. It was a song of joy for all that is pleasant, and bright, and happy in this
world."

                      THIS STORY IS TOLD BY

                        THE NEXT NEIGHBOR

                          AND IS CALLED

                         THE VICE-CONSORT

X

THE VICE-CONSORT

The red thrush seemed now to be part of the pleasantness of the garden. Whether he was drawn
to the lilac-bushes by the sweet memory of his former home, or whether he was keeping a tryst
with his mate of the nesting season and was calling her to come to him, or whether his coming
was pure caprice, of course John Gayther could not know. But every day he came; and when the
sky was clear he sang his merry song; and even when the clouds were overshadowing he could
not help uttering little trills of melody. After a time he would fly away; but he left a note
of gladness in John's heart that stayed there all day.

The bird did not seem in the least disturbed by the talk on the terrace. If the sound of the
voices reached him at all it must have been as a low murmur, and perhaps he liked it. The family
now timed their visits to the summer-house, when they were able to go there, by the red thrush;
and he seldom disappointed them. It so happened, however, one morning when they were all there,
that the lilacs gave forth no sound. They waited for the accustomed music, and a hush fell
upon them. They were silent for some time, and then the Old Professor spoke:

"I see John Gayther below the terrace. Can't we have a story, if we cannot have a song?"

John was called up at once, and the Next Neighbor accosted him gayly: "If you had known that
I am going to tell a story you would have walked faster."

John answered her with a pleasant smile. He liked the Next Neighbor. He liked the kind of mind
she had, for it was thoroughly imbued with an anxious desire to do her duty in this world in
the manner in which that duty showed itself to her. He liked her because she was fond of the
Daughter of the House. He liked her because she considered her husband to be the handsomest,
best, and cleverest man in the world. Perhaps John would have liked this trait best of all
if he had not clearly seen that she held in reserve an opinion that this husband would move
on a still higher plane if he would place more value on her opinions and statements.

"This is the first time you have favored us," he said courteously.

"Well," she said, "I knew the time would come when I would be called upon, and I could tell
many a story about things that have happened to me. I am not exactly the heroine of this tale,
but I am intimately concerned in its happenings, and shall tell it in my own way.

"Before I was married I used to feel that all we have to do in this world is to grow up like
grass or clover-blossoms, and to perform our parts by being just as green or as sweet-smelling
as our natures allow. But I do not think that way now. Along comes a cow, and our careers are
ended. Of course we cannot get out of the way of our fate any more than grass can get out of
the way of a cow; but it often happens that we can accommodate ourselves to our misfortunes.
We can be content to being nibbled close; we can spring up again from the roots; or we can
patiently wait until we blossom again the next summer.

"It was about a year after I was married that I began to think about such things. We were spending
a fortnight at the country house of one of my old friends, Mrs. Cheston; and although Bernard,
my husband, was away most of the time, fishing with Mr. Cheston, we were enjoying ourselves
very much. There was a village not far away where there were some very nice people, so that
we had a good deal of pleasant social life, and it was not long before I became quite well
acquainted with some of the village families.

"One day Mrs. Cheston gave me a luncheon, to which she invited a good many of the village ladies;
and, after they were all gone, we two sat on the piazza and talked about them. Two or three
of our guests I had not met before, and in the course of our talk Emily mentioned the name
of Margaret Temple.

"'Temple?' said I. 'Which one was that? I do not recall her.'

"'You were talking to her some time,' she replied. 'I think she was telling you about the mountains.'

"'Oh, yes,' said I; 'she was pointing out those passes through which people go into the next
county. She sat at the other end of the table, didn't she? She was dressed in black.'

"'Oh, no,' said Emily, 'she was not dressed in black. She never wears black. I think she wore
a brown dress with some sort of light trimming.'

"'Oh, well,' said I, 'I did not notice her dress, and when I do not notice people's clothes
I nearly always think they dress in black. Is she nice?'

"'She is very nice indeed,' said Emily; 'everybody thinks that.'

"'I wish I had seen more of her,' said I.

"Emily did not answer this remark, but a smile came on her face which presently grew into a
little laugh. I looked at her in surprise.

"'What is there funny about Miss Temple?' I asked.

"'Really there is nothing funny about her,' she replied, 'but I often laugh to myself when
I think of her.'

"I suddenly became very much interested in Miss Temple. 'Tell me why you do that,' I said.
'I always like to know why people laugh at other people.'

"Emily now became very sober. 'You must not think,' she said, 'that there is anything ridiculous
about Margaret Temple. There is not a finer woman to be found anywhere, and I do not believe
there is anybody who laughs at her except myself. You know I am very apt to see the funny side
of things.'

"'And so am I!' I exclaimed. 'Do tell me about Miss Temple. It is so seldom there is anything
amusing about a really nice person.'

"Emily was silent for a moment, and then she said: 'Well, I do not know that there is any real
harm in telling you what makes me laugh. A good many people know all about it; but I would
not, for the world, have Margaret Temple find out that I told you.'

"I assured her with great earnestness that if she would tell me, I would never breathe it to
any living soul.

"'Very well,' said Emily; 'I will trust you. As I said, it really isn't funny, but it is just
this. It is a positive fact that five married ladies (I am certain of this number, and it may
be more) have gone to Margaret Temple, during the past few years, and each one has asked her
to become her husband's second wife in case she should die.'

"I did not laugh; I exclaimed in amazement: 'Why did they all ask her? I did not notice anything
particularly attractive about her.'

"'I think that is the point,' said Emily. 'I do not think a woman is likely to want her husband
to take an attractive woman for his second wife. If she had the chance to choose her successor,
she would like her husband to have a really nice person, good in every way, but not one with
whom he would be likely to fall violently in love. Don't you see the point of that?'

"I replied that it was easy enough to see the point, but that there was another one. 'You must
remember,' said I, 'that husbands are generally very particular; if one has had a young and
handsome wife he would not be likely to be satisfied with anything less.'

"Emily shook her head. 'I am older than you, Rosa, and have had more opportunities of noticing
widowers. There are a great many things for them to think about when they marry a second time:
their children, their positions, and all that. I believe that if a man and his wife discussed
it, which they would not be likely to do, they would be very apt to be of the same mind in
regard to the sort of person who ought to come in as number two. For my part, I do not wonder
at all that so many women have cast their eyes on Margaret Temple as a person they would like
to have take their places when they are gone. For one thing, you know they would not be jealous
of her; this is very important. Then, they would be as certain as anything can be certain in
this world that their children, if they had any, as well as their husbands, would be in most
excellent hands. Often, when I have been thinking about her, I have called Margaret Temple
the Vice-consort; but I have never told any one this. Please remember.'

"So far I had not seen a thing to laugh at, but I was deeply interested. 'How came all this
to be known?' I asked. 'Has Miss Temple gone about telling people?'

"'Oh, no, indeed; she is not that sort of person. A good many of the village ladies know it,
and I think they always have heard it from those prudent ladies who were providing for their
husbands' futures. People talk about it, of course, but they are very careful that nothing
they say shall reach Margaret Temple's ears.'

"'Tell me about some of the people,' I said, 'who want to secure Miss Temple as a successor.
Do they all feel as though they are likely to die?'

"'Not all of them,' answered Emily. 'There is Mrs. Hendrickson, who was obliged to go to Arizona
on account of her father's property. He was very rich, and died not long ago. Her husband has
to stay at home to attend to his business, and she could not take her little baby; and although
she is just as healthy as anybody, she knew all the dangers of railroad travelling, and all
sorts of things in that far-away place; and, before she packed her trunk, she went to Margaret
Temple and asked her to promise that if she died out there, she, Margaret, would marry Mr. Hendrickson.
This I know for certain, for Mrs. Hendrickson told me herself.'

"'Did Miss Temple promise?'

"'That I did not hear,' replied Emily. 'Mrs. Hendrickson was in a great hurry, and perhaps
she did not intend to tell me, anyway. But I do not believe Margaret absolutely refused; at
least, it would not have been prudent for her to do so. The Hendricksons are rich, and he is
a fine man. There would be nothing in the way of such a match.'

"'Except the return of the wife,' I remarked.

"Emily smiled. 'And then there was poor Mrs. Windham,' she continued. 'Everybody knew she asked
Margaret. She left a son about eight years old who is very delicate. The poor woman has not
been dead long enough for anything to come of that, but I do not believe anything ever will.
There are people who say that Mr. Windham drinks; but I have seen no signs of it. Then there
is another one--and no matter what you may hear people say about these things, you must never
mention that I told you this. Mrs. Barnes, the rector's wife, has spoken to Margaret on the
subject. She looks very well, so far as I can judge; but there is consumption in her family.
She is almost bigoted in regard to the duties of a rector's wife. She tries just as hard as
she can to fill the position properly herself, and she knows Mr. Barnes would never be satisfied
with any one who did not agree with him as she does about the responsibilities of a rector's wife.'

"'Does Margaret Temple agree with him?' I asked.

"'I do not know, for I never talked with her on the subject,' replied Emily, 'but she is very
apt to think what is right. Besides, it is believed that Mrs. Barnes has not only spoken to
Margaret, but to the rector himself; and if he had not thought the plan a good one, Mrs. Barnes
would have dropped it; and, from things I have heard her say, I know she has not dropped it.'

"Emily looked as though she were about to rise, and I quickly exclaimed: 'But that is only
three. Who are the others?'

"'One of them,' said she, 'is Mrs. Clinton. There is nothing the matter with her physically,
but she is very rich, and is prudent and careful about everything that belongs to her, while
her husband is not a business man at all and never has anything to do with money matters of
importance. There are three children, and she has reason to feel anxious about them should
they and their property be left in the charge of Mr. Clinton, or to the tender mercies of some
woman who would marry him for the sake of his wealth. You can see for yourself that it is no
wonder she casts her eyes upon Margaret. I believe Mrs. Clinton could die happy if she could
see her husband and Margaret Temple promise themselves to each other at her bedside.'

"'That seems to me to be horrid,' said I; 'but of course it would be extremely sensible. And
the other one?'

"'Oh, that matter does not amount to much,' said Emily. 'Old Mrs. Gloucester lives at the other
end of the village, and she does not visit much, so you have not seen her. Her husband is old
enough, dear knows, but not quite so old as she is. She is very much afraid that she will die
and leave him with nobody to take care of him, for they have no children. They are very well
off, and I dare say she thinks it would be a good thing for Margaret as well as for the old
gentleman.'

"'That is shameful,' said I; 'it would be the same thing as engaging a trained nurse.'

"Emily laughed. 'I never heard how Margaret received this remarkable proposition,' she said,
'but I hope she was angry.'

"'But, at any rate, it could never come to anything,' said I.

"'Of course not,' answered Mrs. Cheston.

"It is not surprising that after this conversation I took a great interest in Margaret Temple;
and when she called the next morning I had a long and undisturbed talk with her, Mrs. Cheston
being out. I am very fond of analyzing human character, and I often do it while I am riding
in the street-cars; and it was not long before I had made up my mind as to what sort of woman
Margaret Temple was. I set her down as what may be called a balanced person. In fact, I thought
at the time she was a little too well balanced; if some of her characteristics had been a little
more pronounced I think she would have been more interesting. But I liked her very much, and
I remember I was almost as well pleased when she was talking to me as when she was listening,
and I am sure there are very few persons, men or women, of whom I can say this."

Here a smile came upon the faces of the company, but they were too polite to make any comment
on what had called forth the smile. The Master of the House asked permission to light a cigar,
and the Old Professor, who never smoked, remarked: "There is deep philosophy in all this."

"I don't know about the philosophy," said the Next Neighbor, "but it is absolute truth. Well,
after a time I began to wish that Miss Temple lived near our home, because she would be such
an admirable person for a friend and neighbor. Then, suddenly, without any warning, there flashed
through me the strangest feeling I ever had in my life. I must have turned pale, for Miss Temple
asked me if I did not feel ill. I soon recovered from the effects of this strange feeling,
and went on talking; but I was very glad when Mrs. Cheston came home, and took the conversation
out of my hands.

"For two or three days after this my mind was very much troubled, and Bernard thought that
the air of that part of the country did not agree with me, and that we ought to go to the sea-shore.
But this I positively refused to consider. There could be no sea-shore for me until a good
many things had been settled. It was at this time that I first began to think that we cannot
grow up fresh and green and blossom undisturbed, and that we must consider untimely cows coming
along.

"To make the state of my mind clearly understood, I must say that there is an hereditary disease
in my family. I had never thought anything about it, for there had been no reason why I should;
but now I did think about it, and there did seem to be reason. My grandfather had had this
disease, and had died of it. To be sure, he was very old; but that did not matter: he died
of it, all the same. It never troubled my father, but this made no difference, so far as I
was concerned, for I have always heard that hereditary diseases are apt to skip a generation,
and if this one had skipped, there was nobody for it to skip to but me; for I have no brothers
or sisters.

"The more I thought on this subject, the more troubled my mind became, and at last I believed
it to be my duty to speak to Bernard, although I did not tell him all my thoughts; for I had
had a good many that were not necessarily connected with hereditary diseases. I was positively
amazed at the way my husband received what I told him. I had expected that perhaps he might
pooh-pooh the whole thing, but he did nothing of the kind. He became very serious, and talked
to me in the most earnest way.

"'Now, Rosa,' said he, 'I am glad you told me about this, and I want to impress it upon your
mind that you must be very careful. In the first place, you must totally give up hot spirits
and water. You must not drink more than two glasses of wine, or three at the utmost, at any
of your meals. When you get up in the morning you must totally abstain from drinking those
mixtures that are taken by some people to give appetite for breakfast. At night you must try
to do without any sort of punch or toddy to make you sleep. If you will take this advice, and
restrict yourself to water and milk, and not over-rich food, I think you may reasonably expect
to live longer than your grandfather did, although I cannot imagine why any one should want
to live that long.'

"Of course I was angry at all this, for I saw then that he was making fun of me; and I said
no more to him, for he was not in the right frame of mind to listen to me. But I did not stop
thinking.

"I now became very intimate with Miss Temple. I began to like her very much, and I think she
liked me. I continued to study her, and I became convinced that she was a woman to whom a very
fastidious man might be attracted--I do not mean that he would fall in love with her, but that
he would be perfectly satisfied with her. In fact, I summed up her character by assuring myself
that in every way she was perfectly satisfactory. I have known other women who were more charming,
but they all had faults; and I do not see how any one could have found fault with Miss Temple.

"One day we had taken a long walk, and were on our way home when I began to talk to her about
my own affairs. I thought I knew her so well in a general way that the time had come for me
to find out some things more definitely. I began in an offhand but cautious manner to talk
about Bernard. I alluded to his love of outdoor sports, and mentioned that I thought it my
duty frequently to speak to him in regard to the terrible consequences which might follow a
false step when he was out fishing, and that I thought it necessary to repeat this advice very
often, for it was my opinion he paid very little attention to it. I also made several other
allusions to his indisposition to take care of himself, and remarked how very necessary it
was for me to look after his health. I mentioned his great carelessness in regard to flannel,
and told her that it was often quite late in the autumn before he would make any change in
his clothing.

"Then I spoke of his domestic habits; and, as I saw Miss Temple seemed much interested, I talked
a good deal about them. He was the most loving husband in the world, I said, and was always
anxious to know what he could do for me more than he was already doing; but when we were in
the city he did like to go out in the evenings, and I thought he went to his club too often.
Of course, I said, I did not say anything to him about it, for I would not want him to think
that I desired him to deny himself the company of other gentlemen; but the habit of club attendance
was one that might grow on a man, especially a young one, and there were a good many other
things that might result from it, such as excessive smoking. So I had thought it well to offer
him additional inducements for spending his evenings at home, and I had begun a regular system
of reading aloud. It had proved very beneficial to both of us, for I chose good, standard books;
and although he sometimes went to sleep, that was to be expected, for Bernard was a hard-working
man. As for myself, I liked this reading aloud very much, although at first it was rather tiresome,
as I had never been used to it. Then I asked her if she liked reading aloud--it is such a good
way of giving pleasure to others at the same time that you are pleasing yourself. She smiled,
and said she was very fond of reading aloud.

"Then I changed the subject to churches and preachers, for I did not want her to think I was
saying too much about my husband, and asked her who was the best preacher in the village. When
she said it was Mr. Barnes, I asked her if she went to his church. She answered that she did,
and then I told her that I was also an Episcopalian, but that Bernard's parents were Methodists.
I did not think, however, that this would make much difference, for when he began to go regularly
to church, I was sure he would rather go with me than to travel off somewhere by himself.

"I did not suppose that Miss Temple would care so much about what I was saying, but she did
seem to care, and listened attentively to every word.

"'You must not think I am talking too much about my family affairs,' I remarked, 'but doesn't
it strike you that a really good wife ought to try just as hard as she can to be on good terms
with her husband's family, no matter how queer they may be? I mean the women in it; for they
are more likely to be queer than the men. For if she does not do this,' I continued, 'the worst
of the trouble, if there is any, will come on him. He will have to take sides either with his
wife or his sisters,--and mother too, if he happens to have one,--and that would be sure to
make him unhappy if he is a good-hearted man, such as Bernard is.'

"At this Miss Temple burst out laughing, and it was the first time I had ever heard her laugh
so heartily. As soon as she could speak she exclaimed: 'Are you going to ask me to marry your
husband if you should happen to die?'

"I must have turned as red as the most scarlet poppy, for I felt my face burn. I hesitated
a little, but I was obliged to tell the truth, and so I stammered out that I had been thinking
of something of the kind.

"'Oh, please don't look so troubled,' said she. 'Several persons have spoken to me on the same
subject; but I never should have dreamed that such an idea would come into your head. I think
it is the funniest thing in the world!' And then she laughed again.

"I was greatly embarrassed, and all I could say was that I hoped I had not offended her.

"'Oh, not in the least,' she said. 'I am getting used to this sort of thing, and I can bear it.'

"This remark helped me very much, for I resented it. 'I do not see what there is to bear,'
I said. 'Such a man as Bernard--and then I have special reasons--'

"'Oh, yes,' she interrupted quickly; 'each one has a special reason. But there is one general
reason that is common to all. Now tell me, my dear,'--and as she spoke she took both my hands
and looked steadily into my face,--'were you not about to ask me to marry your husband, in
case of your death, because you could think of it without being jealous of me, and because
you are afraid he might marry some one of whom you would probably be jealous if you knew of it?'

"She looked at me in such a kind, strong way that I was obliged to confess that this was my
reason for speaking to her about Bernard. 'I cannot exactly explain,' I added, and my face
burned again, 'why I should think about you in this way; but I hope you will not imagine--'

"'Oh, I shall not imagine anything that will be disagreeable to you,' she said; and she looked
just as good-humored as possible."

"Does that lady live in any place where my wife can get at her?" asked the Master of the House,
as the Next Neighbor paused to take breath.

"I have not yet developed a disease," said the Mistress of the House.

"Well, when you do, please find that woman. She is a very good sort."

"I shall have an opinion on that subject, papa," said the Daughter of the House.

"You little minx!" he replied. "I shall see that you are provided for before that."

"It is not well to joke about so serious a matter," said the Next Neighbor, "as you will see
when I finish my story.

"For a little while Miss Temple walked on in silence, and I tried hard to think of what would
be proper for me to say next, when suddenly she stopped.

"'We are not far from the house now,' she said, 'and before we get there I want to set your
mind at rest by telling you that if you should die before your husband, and if nothing should
happen at any time or in any way to interfere with such a plan, I will marry your Bernard and
take good care of him. I have never made such a positive promise to any one, but I do not mind
making it to you. I am sure I need not ask you to say nothing about this compact to your husband.'

"I was stunned, but I managed to stammer: 'Oh, no, indeed!'

"Fortunately for me, Miss Temple did not stay to supper. I do not think I could have borne
to see her and Bernard together. It was bad enough as it was. I felt greatly humiliated; I
could not understand how I could have done such a thing. It was worse than selling a birthright--it
was giving away the dearest thing on earth. I trembled from head to foot when Bernard came
home from fishing. I do not believe I ever before greeted him so affectionately. My emotion
troubled him, and he asked me if I were ill, and if I had been lonely and bored while he was
away. He was just as good as good could be, and began to talk again about going to the sea-shore.
I did not object this time, for I could not know what would be best to do.

"In the evening, after every one else had gone indoors, I begged him to sit longer on the piazza,
and to smoke another cigar. He was quite surprised, because, as he said, I had never asked
him to do such a thing before, but had rather discouraged his smoking. But I declared I wanted
to sit with him in the moonlight all by ourselves. And so we did until his cigar was finished.

"For the first hour of that night I did not sleep a wink, my mind was so troubled. I felt as
though I were not really Bernard's wife, but some sort of a guardian angel who was watching
over him to see that somebody else made him happy. After I had thus been in the depths of grief
for a long while, I became angry.

"'She shall never have him!' I said to myself. 'I will make it the object of my life to live
longer than he does. My grandfather lived to be much older than ordinary men, and why should
not I have as long a life? Perhaps it was the things he ate and drank, and his jovial disposition,
that gave him such longevity. If I were sure of this I would be willing to take hot drinks
at night, and wine at dinner. No; Bernard must not be left behind.' It was while making up
my mind very firmly about this that I fell asleep.

"The next morning I was possessed with an overwhelming desire to go to see Miss Temple. Why
I should do so I could not tell myself. I certainly did not want to see her; I did not wish
to speak to her; I did not want her to say anything to me: but I felt that I must go; and I
went. She received me very pleasantly, and did not say one word about our conversation of the
day before. There were a good many things I should have liked to say, but I did not know how,
unless she gave me the opportunity. But she did not, and so it happened that we talked only
about something she was sewing--I do not know whether it was a shirt-waist or an army blanket.
In fact, I did not hear one word she said about her stupid work, whatever it was, I was so
busy re-studying her face, her character, and everything about her. I now found she was much
more than satisfactory--she was really good-looking. Her eyes were not very large, but they
were soft and dark. Her voice was clear and sweet. I had noticed this before, but, until now,
I had not thought of it as an objection. There were a good many other things that might be
very effective to a man, especially to one with half-healed sorrows. I acknowledged to myself
that I had been mistaken in her, and I did not doubt she had deceived a good many other people
in that neighborhood.

"When I rose to leave, she stood for a moment, looking at me as though she expected me to say
something on the subject which was certainly interesting to her as well as to me. But now I
did not want to talk, and I gave her no chance to say anything. I walked rapidly home, feeling
as jealous of Margaret Temple as any woman could feel of another.

"I was glad that day that Bernard liked to go fishing, for my mind was in such a condition
that I did not think of anything that might happen to him--at least, anything but just one
thing, and that was awful. Emily Cheston supposed I had a headache, and I let her think so,
for it gave me more time to myself. I looked at the thing that threatened to crush all my happiness,
on every possible side. Early in the morning a ray of relief had come to my troubled mind,
and this was that I did not believe he would have her, anyway. But I had seen her since, and
no such ray comforted me now.

"I knew, as I had not known before, what a power she might have over a man. Widowers, I thought,
are generally ready enough to marry again; but, no matter what they think about it, they mostly
wait a good while, for the sake of appearances. But this would be different. When a man knows
that his wife had selected some one as her successor--and he would be sure to know this, the
woman would see to that--he would not feel it necessary to wait. He would be carrying out his
dead wife's wishes, and of course in this there should be no delay. Oh, horrible! When I thought
of myself as Bernard's dead wife, and that woman living, I actually kicked the stool my feet
were resting on. I vowed in my mind the thing should never be. I felt better after I had made
this vow, although I had not thought of any way by which I could carry it out. Certainly I
was not going to say anything to Bernard about it, one way or another."

Here the Next Neighbor paused again. And at that moment the red thrush gave a little low trill,
as much as to say: "Listen to me now." Then he twittered and chirped in a tentative way as
if he had not made up his mind about singing, and the party on the terrace felt like clapping
to encourage him.

"I wonder if he knows he has an audience," said the Daughter of the House, in a very low tone.

"He knows it is impolite to interrupt the story," said her father. "No; there he goes!"

And, sure enough, the bird, having decided that on the whole it would help matters in whatever
direction he wished them to be helped, sang out, clear and loud, what seemed to his audience
the most delightful song he had yet given them.

When he had finished, the Next Neighbor said: "That was so full of soul I hate to go on with
my very material story."

"It strikes me," said the Old Professor, "that there is a good deal of soul in your story."

"Thank you," said the Next Neighbor, as she again took up the thread of her narrative.

"That evening, prompted by a sudden impulse, I went up to Bernard, and, looking into his face,
I declared that I would never leave him.

"'What!' he exclaimed. 'Has any one been asking you to leave me?'

"'Of course not,' said I, a little irritated--he has such queer ways of taking what I say.
'I mean I am not going to die before you do. I am not going to leave you in this world to take
care of yourself.'

"He looked at me as though he did not understand me, and I do not suppose he did, although
he only said: 'I am delighted to hear that, my dear girl. But how are you going to manage it?
How about that hereditary disease you were talking of the other day?'

"'I have nothing to say about that,' I answered; 'but if I live as long as my grandfather did,
I do not believe that your being a little older than I am would--I mean that you would not
be left alone. Don't you understand?'

"Bernard did not laugh. 'You are the dearest little woman in the world,' he said, 'and I believe
you would do anything to make me happy--you would even be willing to survive me, so that I
should never lose you. But don't let us talk any more about such doleful things. We are both
going to live to be a great deal older than your grandfather. Now I will tell you something
pleasant: I had a letter this morning, just as I was starting out. I put it in my pocket, and
did not have time to open it until we were eating our lunch. It is from my brother George,
who is going to England next month, you know; and as he wants to see something of us before
he starts, he intends to spend a few days in the village, so that he can be with us. He is
coming to-morrow.'

"A ray of hope shot into my heart so bright that I could almost feel it burn.

"'Well,' said Bernard, 'what have you to say to this? Aren't you glad that George is coming?'

"'Glad!' I replied. 'I am more than delighted.'

"Bernard looked as though he did not understand this extraordinary ecstasy; but as he was used
to not understanding me, I do not suppose he thought it worth while to bother himself about it.

"George was a fine young fellow, and, next to Bernard, I thought he was the best man in the
world. It will be remembered that I had no brother, and George was always as kind and brotherly
as he could be. I was fond of him even before I was married; in fact, I knew him quite well
before I became acquainted with Bernard; and I was always glad to see him. But I had never
been so delighted to think he was coming as I was then. My face must have shown this, for Bernard
laughingly said:

"'You must be awfully glad to see George.'

"'I am glad,' I answered; and as I spoke I thought that if he knew everything he would understand
why my eyes glistened, as I am sure they did.

"The reason of my great joy was that a plan had suddenly come into my mind. George had spoken
to me several times about marrying, and he had told me just what kind of a wife he wanted;
and now, as I remembered what he had said on the subject, it seemed to me he had been describing
Margaret Temple. He wanted a wife who was good-looking but not a belle, and she must be sensible
and practical, a good housekeeper, and a charming hostess. Besides, she must be intellectual,
and fond of books, and appreciate art, and all that. Moreover, he had said he would like her
to be just about a year older than himself, because he thought that was a good proportion in
a young couple. It was apt to make the man look up to his wife a little, which might not be
the case if he were the elder. I remembered this, because when he told me I wished very much
that I were a year older than Bernard.

"Now, as I said before, all this seemed as though he had been talking of Miss Temple; and I,
knowing her so well, could see other points than those he mentioned in which she would suit
him as no other woman could. If George would fall in love with Miss Temple,--and there was
no earthly reason why he should not, for Bernard told me he was going to make him stay a week,--then
everything would be all right; all my anxieties, my forebodings, and my jealousies would be
gone, and I should be as happy as I was before I met that dear girl, Miss Temple.

"This was not all idle fancy. My plan was founded on good, practical ideas. If George married
Margaret everything would be settled in an absolutely perfect way. If I should die Bernard
would not need to marry anybody; in fact, I did not believe that in this case he would want
to. He would go to live with George and Margaret; their home would be his home, and he would
always have both of them to take care of him and to make him happy in every possible way in
which anybody could make him happy. In my mind's eye I could see him in the best room in the
house, with all sorts of comforts and luxuries about him--our present comforts and luxuries
would make a great show gathered together in one room; and then I saw Margaret and George standing
at the open door, asking if there were anything he would like, and what they could do for him.
As this mental picture came before me my eyes involuntarily went around that room to see if
there were a picture of me on the wall; and there it was, and no portrait of any other woman
anywhere about.

"In a flash the whole thing became so horrible to me that I threw myself on the bed and began
to cry convulsively. Bernard heard me, and came up-stairs, and I was obliged to tell him I
had a sudden pain. He does not like sudden pains, and sat down and talked to me a good while
about what I had been eating. Before long, however, I grew calm, and was able to think about
my plans in a common-sense, practical way. Truly there could be nothing better for my present
comfort and Bernard's future happiness: Margaret and George to take care of him, and my image
undimmed in his heart. I felt like one who has insured his life for the benefit of a loved
one, so, no matter what might happen to him, he would have, as long as he lived, the joy of
knowing what he had done for the loved one.

"When George came the next day he was just the same splendid old George, and I do not believe
any one ever received a warmer welcome from a sister-in-law than I gave him. Bernard made a
little fun of me, as usual, and said he believed I would rather see George than him.

"'Nonsense,' said I; 'I am always glad to see you, but I am especially glad to see George.'

"Bernard whistled, and looked at me in the same queer way that he looked at me when he once
had said laughingly that he believed if I had never met him I would have married George, and
I had answered that if I had been sure he did not exist it might have been a good thing for
me to marry George.

"Miss Temple did not come to the house that morning, as she so often did, but I asked Emily
to send over and invite her to tea; for I did not wish to lose any time in the carrying out
of my plans. It was about the middle of the afternoon when Bernard and his brother came in
from a walk. I had been anxious to see George, because I wanted to talk with him about Margaret
before he met her. I was going to speak very guardedly, of course; but I knew it would be well
to prepare his mind, and I had made up my mind exactly what I was going to say.

"I artfully managed so that George and I walked over the lawn to a bench in the shade of a
big tree where there was something or other--I entirely forget what it was--which I said I
would show him. Mr. and Mrs. Cheston and Bernard were on the piazza, but I did not ask them
to join us.

"We sat down on the bench, and, in a general sort of way, I asked him what he had been doing,
meaning presently to bring up the subject of Margaret, for I did not know what time she might
drop in. But George was just as anxious to talk as I was, and, being a man, he was a little
more pushing, and he said:

"'Now, little Rosa, I am so glad you came down here with me, for I have something on my mind
I want to tell you, and I want to do it myself, before anybody else interferes. It is just
this: I am engaged to be married, and as soon as I get back from England I am going to--' And
then he opened his eyes very wide and looked hard at me. 'What is the matter, Rosa?' he exclaimed.
'Don't you feel well?'

"In one instant all my plans and hopes and happy dreams of the future had dropped to the ground,
and had been crushed into atoms.

"'Well!' said I, and I think I spoke in a queer voice. 'I am very well. There is nothing the
matter with me. What is her name?'

"He told me; but I had never heard it before, and it was of no more importance to me than the
buzzing of a bee.

"'It will be very nice,' I said; 'and now let us go up to the house and tell the others.'

"I think that for a woman who had just received such a blow as had been dealt to me I behaved
very well indeed. But I was cold and, I suspect, pale. I listened as the others talked, but
I did not say much myself; and, as soon as I could make some excuse, I went up to my room.
There I threw myself into a great chair, and gently cried myself to sleep. I did not sob loudly,
because I did not want Bernard to come up again. When I awoke I had a dreadful headache, and
I made up my mind I would not go down to tea. I could do no good by going down, and, so far
as I was concerned, it did not matter in the least whether Margaret was there or not. In fact,
I did not care about anything. Let George marry whoever he pleased. If I should die Margaret
Temple had promised to take care of Bernard. Everything was settled, and there was no sense
in making any more plans. So I got ready for another nap, and when Bernard came up I told him
I had a headache, and did not want any tea.

"That evening Bernard sat and looked at me without speaking, as was sometimes his habit, and
then he said:

"'Rosa, I do not understand this at all, and I want you to tell me why you were so extravagantly
glad when you found my brother George was coming here, and why you were so overcome by your
emotions when you heard of his engagement.'

"'Oh, Bernard,' I cried, 'if it were anybody else I might tell everything, but I cannot tell
you--I cannot tell you!' And I am sure I spoke truly, for how could I have told that dear man
what I had said to Margaret Temple; and how jealous I had been of her afterwards; and how I
had planned for her to marry George; and that, after my funeral, he should go to live with
them; and about my picture on the wall; and all the rest of it? It was simply impossible. And
if he did not know all this, how could he understand my feelings when I heard that George was
engaged?

"I could not answer him; I could only sob, and repeat what I had said before--that if it were
anybody else I might speak, but that I could never tell him. Soon after that he went down-stairs,
and I went to sleep.

"Bernard was never cross with me,--I do not believe he could be if he tried,--but the next
morning he was very quiet, and soon after breakfast he and Mr. Cheston and George went fishing.
If the incidents of the day before had not occurred I suppose they would have done something
in which Emily and I could have joined; but some sort of change had come over things, and it
was plain enough that even George did not want me. So I sat alone under the tree where George
had told me of his engagement, feeling very much troubled and very lonely. I wanted to tell
everything to somebody, but there was no one to tell. It would be impossible to speak to Emily;
she would have no sympathy with me; and if I should tell her everything I had planned, I knew
she would laugh at me unmercifully. I think it would have pleased me better to speak to George
than to any one else; he had always been so sympathetic and kind; but now things were changed,
and he would not care to interest himself in the affairs of any woman except the one to whom
he was engaged. It was terrible to sit there and think that there was not a person in the world,
not even my husband, to whom I could look for sympathy and comfort. If I had not been out in
the open air, where people could have seen me, I should have cried.

"Happening to look up, I saw some one on the piazza. It was that horrible Margaret Temple;
and when she gazed about from side to side she saw me under the tree, and as I, apparently,
took no notice of her, she stepped down from the piazza and came walking across the lawn toward
me. If I had been a man I should have cursed my fate; not only was I deprived of every comfort,
but here came the disturber of my peace to make me still more unhappy.

"I do not remember what she said when she reached me, but I know she spoke very pleasantly;
nor do I remember what I replied, but I am sure I did not speak pleasantly. I was out of humor
with the whole world, and particularly with her. She brought a little chair that was near by,
and sat down by me. She was a very straightforward person about speaking, and so she said,
without any preface:

"'Have you told your husband of that arrangement you made with me if he should survive you?'

"'Of course I have not!' I exclaimed. 'Do you think I would tell him a thing like that, especially
when I said I would not? The fact is,' I continued,--and it was very hard for me to keep from
crying as I spoke,--'I am just loaded down with trouble, and I cannot tell anybody.'

"'I knew you were troubled,' she replied, 'and that is the reason I came this morning. Why
can't you tell me what is the matter?'

"At first this made me angry, and I felt like bouncing off to the house and never speaking
to her again; but in the next instant I changed my mind. It would serve her right if I told
her everything; and so I did. I made her feel exactly how I had felt when I had thought of
her in my place, and how I had determined that it should never be. Then I went on and told
her all my plans about George and herself; and how Bernard was to board with them if I died.
I made the story a good deal longer than I have made it here. Then I finished by telling her
of George's engagement, and how nothing had come of the whole thing except that Bernard had
supposed that I thought too much of George, and had gone away that morning as cold as a common
acquaintance; and that I felt as though my whole life had been wrecked, and that she had done it.

"It was easy to see that she was not affected as she should have been by what I said. In fact,
she looked as though she wanted to laugh; but her respect for me prevented that.

"'I do not see,' she said, 'how I have wrecked your life.'

"'That may be so,' I answered, 'but it is because you do not want to see it. I should think
that even you would admit that it is enough to drive me crazy to see any woman waiting and
longing for the day which would give her that which I prize more than anything else in the
world. And to think what you are aspiring to! None of the old left-overs that other people
have offered to you, but my Bernard, the very prince of men! I do not wonder you were so quick
to promise me you would take him!'

