Lady Niton sat blinking and speechless. Sir James drew the muslin curtain back from the window.

"There they are, you see--Bobbie--and the Explanation. And if you ask me, I think the Explanation
explains."

Lady Niton put up her gold-rimmed glasses.

"She is not in the least pretty!" she said, with hasty venom, her old hand shaking.

"No, but fetching--and a good girl. She worships her Bobbie, and she's sending him away for
a year."

"I won't allow it!" cried Lady Niton. "He sha'n't go."

Sir James shrugged his shoulders.

"These are domestic brawls--I decline them. Ah!" He turned to the window, opening it wide.
She did not move. He made a sign, and two of the three persons who had just appeared on the
lawn came running toward the house. Diana loitered behind.

Lady Niton looked at the two young faces as they reached her side--the mingling of laughter
and anxiety in the girl's, of pride and embarrassment in Bobbie's.

"You sha'n't go to Berlin!" she said to him, vehemently, as she just allowed him to take her hand.

"Dear Lady Niton!--I must."

"You sha'n't!--I tell you! I've got you a place in London--a, thousand times, better than your
fool of an uncle could ever get you. Uncle, indeed! Read that letter!" She tossed him one from
her bag.

Bobbie read, while Lady Niton stared hard at the girl. Presently Bobbie began to gasp.

"Well, upon my word!"--he put the letter down--"upon my word!"' He turned to his sweetheart.
"Ettie!--you marry me in a month!--mind that! Hang Berlin! I scorn their mean proposals. London
requires me." He drew himself up. "But first" (he looked at Lady Niton, his flushed face twitching
a little) "justice!" he said, peremptorily--"justice on the chief offender."

And walking across to her, he stooped and kissed her. Then he beckoned to Ettie to do the same.
Very shyly the girl ventured; very stoically the victim, submitted. Whereupon, Bobbie subsided,
sitting cross-legged on the floor, and a violent quarrel began immediately between him and
Lady Niton on the subject of the part of London in which he and Ettie were to live. Fiercely
the conflict waxed and waned, while the young girl's soft irrepressible laughter filled up
all the gaps and like a rushing stream carried away the detritus--the tempers and rancors and
scorns--left by former convulsions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, Diana and Sir James paced the garden. He saw that she was silent and absent-minded,
and guessed uneasily at the cause. It was impossible that any woman of her type, who had gone
through the experience that she had, should remain unmoved by the accounts now current as to
Oliver Marsham's state.

As they returned across the lawn to the house the two lovers came out to meet them. Sir James
saw the look with which Diana watched them coming. It seemed to him one of the sweetest and
one of the most piteous he had ever seen on a human face.

"I shall descend upon you next week," said Lady Niton abruptly, as Diana made her farewells.
"I shall be at Tallyn."

Diana did not reply. The little fiancée insisted on the right to take her to her pony-carriage,
and kissed her tenderly before she let her go. Diana had already become as a sister to her
and Bobbie, trusted in their secrets and advising in their affairs.

Lady Niton, standing by Sir James, looked after her.

"Well, there's only one thing in the world that girl wants; and I suppose nobody in their senses
ought to help her to it."

"What do you mean?"

She murmured a few words in his ear.

"Not a bit of it!" said Sir James, violently. "I forbid it. Don't you go and put anything of
the sort into her head. The young man I mean her to marry comes back from Nigeria this very day."

"She won't marry him!"

"We shall see."

       *       *       *       *       *

Diana drove home through lanes suffused with sunset and rich with autumn. There had been much
rain through September, and the deluged earth steamed under the return of the sun. Mists were
rising from the stubbles, and wrapping the woods in sleep and purple. To her the beauty of
it all was of a mask or pageant--seen from a distance across a plain or through a street-opening--lovely
and remote. All that was real--all that lived--was the image within the mind; not the great
earth-show without.

As she passed through the village she fell in with the Roughsedges: the doctor, with his wide-awake
on the back of his head, a book and a bulging umbrella under his arm; Mrs. Roughsedge, in a
new shawl, and new bonnet-strings, with a prodigal flutter of side curls beside her ample countenance.
Hugh, it appeared, was expected by an evening train. Diana begged that he might be brought
up to see her some time in the course of the following afternoon. Then she drove on, and Mrs.
Roughsedge was left staring discontentedly at her husband.

"I think she was glad, Henry?"

"Think it, my dear, if it does you any good," said the doctor, cheerfully.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Diana reached home night had fallen--a moon-lit night, through which all the shapes and
even the colors of day were still to be seen or divined in a softened and pearly mystery. Muriel
Colwood was not at home. She had gone to town, on one of her rare absences, to meet some relations.
Diana missed her, and yet was conscious that even the watch of those kind eyes would--to-night--have
added to the passionate torment of thought.

As she sat alone in the drawing-room after her short and solitary meal her nature bent and
trembled under the blowing of those winds of fate, which, like gusts among autumn trees, have
tested or strained or despoiled the frail single life since time began; winds of love and pity,
of desire and memory, of anguish and of longing.

Only her dog kept her company. Sometimes she rose out of restlessness, and moved about the
room, and the dog's eyes would follow her, dumbly dependent. The room was dimly lit; in the
mirrors she saw now and then the ghostly passage of some one who seemed herself and not herself.
The windows were open to a misty garden, waiting for moonrise; in the house all was silence;
only from the distant road and village came voices sometimes of children, or the sounds of
a barrel-organ, fragmentary and shrill.

Loneliness ached in her heart--spoke to her from the future. And five miles away Oliver, too,
was lonely--and in pain. Pain!--the thought of it, as of something embodied and devilish, clutching
and tearing at a man already crushed and helpless--gave her no respite. The tears ran down
her cheeks as she moved to and fro, her hands at her breast.

Yet she was helpless. What could she do? Even if he were free from Alicia, even if he wished
to recall her, how could he--maimed and broken--take the steps that could alone bring her to
his side? If their engagement had subsisted, horror, catastrophe, the approach of death itself,
could have done nothing to part them. Now, how was a man in such a plight to ask from a woman
what yet the woman would pay a universe to give? And in the face of the man's silence, how
could the woman speak?

No!--she began to see her life as the Vicar saw it: pledged to large causes, given to drudgeries--necessary,
perhaps noble, for which the happy are not meant. This quiet shelter of Beechcote could not
be hers much longer. If she was not to go to Oliver, impossible that she could live on in this
rose-scented stillness of the old house and garden, surrounded by comfort, tranquillity, beauty,
while the agony of the world rang in her ears--wild voices!--speaking universal, terrible,
representative things, yet in tones piteously dear and familiar, close, close to her heart.
No; like Marion Vincent, she must take her life in her hands, offering it day by day to this
hungry human need, not stopping to think, accepting the first task to her hand, doing it as
she best could. Only so could she still her own misery; tame, silence her own grief; grief
first and above all for Oliver, grief for her own youth, grief for her parents. She must turn
to the poor in that mood she had in the first instance refused to allow the growth of in herself--the
mood of one seeking an opiate, an anæsthetic. The scrubbing of hospital floors; the pacing
of dreary streets on mechanical errands; the humblest obedience and routine; things that must
be done, and in the doing of them deaden thought--these were what she turned to as the only
means by which life could be lived.

Oliver!--No hope for him?--at thirty-six! His career broken--his ambition defeated. Nothing
before him but the decline of power and joy; nights of barren endurance, separating days empty
and tortured; all natural pleasures deadened and destroyed; the dying down of all the hopes
and energies that make a man.

She threw herself down beside the open window, burying her face on her knees. Would they never
let her go to him?--never let her say to him: "Oliver, take me!--you did love me once--what
matters what came between us? That was in another world. Take my life--crush out of it any
drop of comfort or of ease it can give you! Cruel, cruel--to refuse! It is mine to give and
yours to spend!"

Juliet Sparling's daughter. There was the great consecrating, liberating fact! What claim had
she to the ordinary human joys? What could the ordinary standards and expectations of life
demand from her? Nothing!--nothing that could stem this rush of the heart to the beloved--the
forsaken and suffering and overshadowed beloved. Her future?--she held it dross--apart from
Oliver. Dear Sir James!--but he must learn to bear it--to admit that she stood alone, and must
judge for herself. What possible bliss or reward could there ever be for her but just this:
to be allowed to watch and suffer with Oliver--to bring him the invention, the patience, the
healing divination of love? And if it were not to be hers, then what remained was to go down
into the arena, where all that is ugliest and most piteous in life bleeds and gasps, and throw
herself blindly into the fight. Perhaps some heavenly voice might still speak through it; perhaps,
beyond its jar, some ineffable reunion might dawn--

     "First a peace out of pain--then a light--then thy breast!..."

She trembled through and through. Restraining herself, she rose, and went to her locked desk,
taking from it the closely written journal of her father's life, which had now been for months
the companion of her thoughts, and of the many lonely moments in her days and nights. She opened
on a passage tragically familiar to her:

     "It is an April day. Everything is very still and balmy.
     clouds are low, yet suffused with sun. They seem to be
     tangled among the olives, and all the spring green and
     flowering fruit trees are like embroidery on a dim yet
     shining background of haze, silvery and glistening in the
     sun, blue and purple in the shadows. The beach-trees in the
     olive garden throw up their pink spray among the shimmering
     gray leaf and beside the gray stone walls. Warm breaths
     steal to me over the grass and through the trees; the last
     brought with it a strong scent of narcissus. A goat tethered
     to a young tree in the orchard has reared its front feet
     against the stem, and is nibbling at the branches. His white
     back shines amid the light spring shade.

     "Far down through the trees I can see the sparkle of the
     waves--beyond, the broad plain of blue; and on the headland,
     a mile away, white foam is dashing.

     "It is the typical landscape of the South, and of spring, the
     landscape, with only differences in detail, of Theocritus or
     Vergil, or the Greek anthologists, those most delicate
     singers of nature and the South. From the beginning it has
     filled man with the same joy, the same yearning, the
     same despair.

     "In youth and happiness we are the spring--the young
     green--the blossom--the plashing waves. Their life is ours
     and one with ours.

     "But in age and grief? There is no resentment, I think; no
     anger, as though a mourner resented the gayety around him;
     but, rather, a deep and melancholy wonder at the chasm that
     has now revealed itself between our life and nature. What
     does the breach mean?--the incurable dissonance and
     alienation? Are we greater than nature, or less? Is the
     opposition final, the prophecy of man's ultimate and hopeless
     defeat at the hands of nature?--or is it, in the Hegelian
     sense, the mere development of a necessary conflict, leading
     to a profounder and intenser unity? The old, old
     questions--stock possessions of the race, yet burned anew by
     life into the blood and brain of the individual.

     "I see Diana in the garden with her nurse. She has been
     running to and fro, playing with the dog, feeding the goat.
     Now I see her sitting still, her chin on her hands, looking
     out to sea. She seems to droop; but I am sure she is not
     tired. It is an attitude not very natural to a child,
     especially to a child so full of physical health and vigor;
     yet she often falls into it.

     "When I see it I am filled with dread. She knows nothing, yet
     the cloud seems to be upon her. Does she already ask herself
     questions--about her father--about this solitary life?

     "Juliet was not herself--not in her full sane mind--when I
     promised her. That I know. But I could no more have refused
     the promise than water to her dying lips. One awful evening
     of fever and hallucination I had been sitting by her for a
     long time. Her thoughts, poor sufferer, had been full of
     blood--it is hard to write it--but there is the truth--a
     physical horror of blood--the blood in which her dress--the
     dress they took from her, her first night in prison--was
     once steeped. She saw it everywhere, on her hands, the
     sheets, the walls; it was a nausea, an agony of brain and
     flesh; and yet it was, of course, but a mere symbol and
     shadow of the manifold agony she had gone through. I will not
     attempt to describe what I felt--what the man who knows that
     his neglect and selfishness drove her the first steps along
     this infernal road must feel to his last hour.--But at last
     we were able--the nurse and I--to soothe her a little. The
     nightmare lifted, we gave her food, and the nurse brushed her
     poor brown hair, and tied round it, loosely, the little black
     scarf she likes to wear. We lifted her on her pillows, and
     her white face grew calm, and so lovely--though, as we
     thought, very near to death. Her hair, which was cut in
     prison, had grown again a little--to her neck, and could not
     help curling. It made her look a child again--poor, piteous
     child!--so did the little scarf, tied under her chin--and the
     tiny proportions to which all her frame had shrunk.

     "She lifted her face to mine, as I bent over her, kissed me,
     and asked for you. You were brought, and I took you on my
     knee, showing you pictures, to keep you quiet. But every
     other minute, almost, your eyes looked away from the book to
     her, with that grave considering look, as though a question
     were behind the look, to which your little brain could not
     yet give shape. My strange impression was that the question
     was there--in the mind--fully formed, like the Platonic
     'ideas' in heaven; but that, physically, there was no power
     to make the word-copy that could have alone communicated it
     to us. Your mother looked at you in return, intently--quite
     still. When you began to get restless, I lifted you up to
     kiss her; you were startled, perhaps, by the cold of her
     face, and struggled away. A little color came into her
     cheeks; she followed you hungrily with her eyes as you were
     carried off; then she signed to me, and it was my hand that
     brushed away her tears.

     "Immediately afterward she began to speak, with wonderful
     will and self-control, and she asked me that till you were
     grown up and knowledge became inevitable, I should tell you
     nothing. There was to be no talk of her, no picture of her,
     no letters. As far as possible, during your childhood and
     youth, she was to be to you as though she had never existed.
     What her thought was exactly she was too feeble to explain;
     nor was her mind strong enough to envisage all the
     consequences--to me, as well as to you--of what she proposed.
     No doubt it tortured her to think of you as growing up under
     the cloud of her name and fate, and with her natural and
     tragic impetuosity she asked what she did.

     "'One day--there will come some one--who will love her--in
     spite of me. Then you and he--shall tell her.'

     "I pointed out to her that such a course would mean that I
     must change my name and live abroad. Her eyes assented, with
     a look of relief. She knew that I had already developed the
     tastes of the nomad and the sun-worshipper, that I was a
     student, happy in books and solitude; and I have no doubt
     that the picture her mind formed at the moment of some such
     hidden life together, as we have actually led, you and I,
     since her death, soothed and consoled her. With her intense
     and poetic imagination, she knew well what had happened to
     us, as well as to herself.

     "So here we are in this hermitage; and except in a few
     passing perfunctory words, I have never spoken to you of her.
     Whether what I have done is wise I cannot tell. I could not
     help it; and if I had broken my word, remorse would have
     killed me. I shall not die, however, without telling you--if
     only I have warning enough.

     "But supposing there is no warning--then all that I write
     now, and much else, will be in your hands some day. There are
     moments when I feel a rush of comfort at the notion that I
     may never have to watch your face as you hear the story;
     there are others when the longing to hold you--child as you
     still are--against my heart, and feel your tears--your tears
     for her--mingling with mine, almost sweeps me off my feet.

     "And when you grow older my task in all its aspects will be
     harder still. You have inherited her beauty on a larger,
     ampler scale, and the time will come for lovers. You will
     hear of your mother then for the first time; my mind trembles
     even now at the thought of it. For the story may work out
     ill, or well, in a hundred different ways; and what we did in
     love may one day be seen as an error and folly, avenging
     itself not on us, but on our child.

     "Nevertheless, my Diana, if it had to be done again, it must
     still be done. Your mother, before she died, was tortured by
     no common pains of body and spirit. Yet she never thought of
     herself--she was tormented for us. If her vision was clouded,
     her prayer unwise--in that hour, no argument, no resistance
     was possible.

     "The man who loves you will love you well, my child. You are
     not made to be lightly or faithlessly loved. He will carry
     you through the passage perilous if I am no longer there to
     help. To him--in the distant years--I commit you. On him be
     my blessing, and the blessing, too, of that poor ghost whose
     hands I seem to hold in mine as I write. Let him not be too
     proud to take it!"

Diana put down the book with a low sob that sounded through the quiet room. Then she opened
the garden door and stepped on to the terrace. The night was cold but not frosty; there was
a waning moon above the autumnal fulness of the garden and the woods.

A "spirit in her feet" impelled her. She went back to the house, found a cloak and hat, put
out the lamps, and sent the servants to bed. Then noiselessly she once more undid the drawing-room
door, and stole out into the garden and across the lawn. Soon she was in the lime-walk, the
first yellow leaves crackling beneath her feet; then in the kitchen garden, where the apples
shone dimly on the laden boughs, where sunflowers and dahlias and marigolds, tall white daisies
and late roses--the ghosts of their daylight selves--dreamed and drooped under the moon; where
the bees slept and only great moths were abroad. And so on to the climbing path and the hollows
of the down. She walked quickly along the edge of it, through hanging woods of beech that clothed
the hill-side. Sometimes the trees met in majestic darkness above her head, and the path was
a glimmering mystery before her. Sometimes the ground broke away on her left--abruptly--in
great chasms, torn from the hill-side, stripped of trees, and open to the stars. Down rushed
the steep slopes to the plain, clad in the decaying leaf and mast of former years, and at the
edges of these precipitous glades, or scattered at long intervals across them, great single
trees emerged, the types and masters of the forest, their trunks, incomparably tall, and all
their noble limbs, now thinly veiled by a departing leafage, drawn sharp, in black and silver,
on the pale background of the chalk plain. Nothing so grandiose as these climbing beech woods
of middle England!--by day, as it were, some vast procession marching joyously over hill and
dale to the music of the birds and the wind; and at night, a brooding host, silent yet animate,
waiting the signal of the dawn.

Diana passed through them, drinking in the exaltation of their silence and their strength,
yet driven on by the mere weakness and foolishness of love. By following the curve of the down
she could reach a point on the hill-side whence, on a rising ground to the north, Tallyn was
visible. She hastened thither through the night. Once she was startled by a shot fired from
a plantation near the path, trees began to rustle and dogs to bark, and she fled on, in terror
lest the Tallyn keepers might discover her. Alack!--for whose pleasure were they watching now?

The trees fell back. She reached the bare shoulder of the down. Northward and eastward spread
the plain; and on the low hill in front her eyes discerned the pale patch of Tallyn, flanked
by the darkness of the woods. And in that dim front, a light--surely a light?--in an upper
window. She sank down in a hollow of the chalk, her eyes upon the house, murmuring and weeping.

So she watched with Oliver, as once--at the moment of her sharpest pain--he had watched with
her. But whereas in that earlier night everything was in the man's hands to will or to do,
the woman felt herself now helpless and impotent. His wealth, his mother hedged him from her.
And if not, he had forgotten her altogether for Alicia; he cared for her no more; it would
merely add to his burden to be reminded of her. As to Alicia--the girl who could cruelly leave
him there, in that house of torture, to go and dance and amuse herself--leave him in his pain,
his mother in her sorrow--Diana's whole being was shaken first with an anguish of resentful
scorn, in which everything personal to herself disappeared. Then--by an immediate revulsion--the
thought of Alicia was a thought of deliverance. Gone?--gone from between them?--the flaunting,
triumphant, heartless face?

Suddenly it seemed to Diana that she was there beside him, in the darkened room--that he heard
her, and looked up.

"Diana!"

"Oliver!" She knelt beside him--she raised his head on her breast--she whispered to him; and
at last he slept. Then hostile forms crowded about her, forbidding her, driving her away--even
Sir James Chide--in the name of her own youth. And she heard her own answer: "Dear friend!--think!--remember!
Let me stay!--let me stay! Am I not the child of sorrow? Here is my natural place--my only joy."

And she broke down into bitter helpless tears, pleading, it seemed, with things and persons
inexorable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, in Beechcote village, that night, a man slept lightly, thinking of Diana. Hugh Roughsedge,
bronzed and full of honors, a man developed and matured, with the future in his hands, had
returned that afternoon to his old home.

CHAPTER XXIII

"How is she?"

Mrs. Colwood shook her head sadly.

"Not well--and not happy."

The questioner was Hugh Roughsedge. The young soldier had walked up to Beechcote immediately
after luncheon, finding it impossible to restrain his impatience longer. Diana had not expected
him so soon, and had slipped out for her daily half-hour with Betty Dyson, who had had a slight
stroke, and was failing fast. So that Mrs. Colwood was at Roughsedge's discretion. But he was
not taking all the advantage of it that he might have done. The questions with which his mind
was evidently teeming came out but slowly.

Little Mrs. Colwood surveyed him from time to time with sympathy and pleasure. Her round child-like
eyes under their long lashes told her everything that as a woman she wanted to know. What an
improvement in looks and manner--what indefinable gains in significance and self-possession!
Danger, command, responsibility, those great tutors of men, had come in upon the solid yet
malleable stuff of which the character was made, moulding and polishing, striking away defects,
disengaging and accenting qualities. Who could ever have foreseen that Hugh might some day
be described as "a man of the world"? Yet if that vague phrase were to be taken in its best
sense, as describing a personality both tempered and refined by the play of the world's forces
upon it, it might certainly be now used of the man before her.

He was handsomer than ever; bronzed by Nigerian sun, all the superfluous flesh marched off
him; every muscle in his frame taut and vigorous. And at the same time a new self-confidence--apparently
quite unconscious, and the inevitable result of a strong and testing experience--was enabling
him to bring his powers to bear and into play, as he had never yet done.

She recalled, with some confusion, that she--and Diana?--had tacitly thought of him as good,
but stupid. On the contrary, was she, perhaps, in the presence of some one destined to do great
things for his country? to lay hold--without intending it, as it were, and by the left hand--oh
high distinction? Were women, on the whole, bad judges of young men? She recalled a saying
of Dr. Roughsedge, that "mothers never know how clever their sons are." Perhaps the blindness
extends to other eyes than mothers?

Meanwhile, she got from him all the news she could. He had been, it seemed, concerned in the
vast operation of bringing a new African Empire into being. She listened, dazzled, while in
the very simplest, baldest phrases he described the curbing of slave-raiders, the winning of
populations, the grappling with the desert, the opening out of river highways, whereof in his
seven months he had been the fascinated beholder. As to his own exploits, he was ingeniously
silent; but she knew them already. A military expedition against two revolted and slave-raiding
emirs, holding strong positions on the great river; a few officers borrowed from home to stiffen
a local militia; hot fighting against great odds; half a million of men released from a reign
of hell; tyranny broken, and the British pax extended over regions a third as large as India--smiling
prosperity within its pale, bestial devastation and cruelty without--these things she knew,
or had been able to imagine from the newspapers. According to him, it had been all the doing
of other men. She knew better; but soon found it of no use to interrupt him.

Meanwhile she dared not ask him why he had come home. The campaign, indeed, was over; but he
had been offered, it appeared, an administrative appointment.

"And you mean to go back?"

"Perhaps." He colored and looked restlessly out of the window.

Mrs. Colwood understood the look, and felt it was, indeed, hard upon him that he must put up
with her so long. In reality, he too was conscious of new pleasure in an old acquaintance.
He had forgotten what a dear little thing she was: how prettily round-faced, yet delicate--ethereal--in
all her proportions, with the kindest eyes. She too had grown--by the mere contact with Diana's
fate. Within her tiny frame the soul of her had risen to maternal heights, embracing and sustaining
Diana.

He would have given the world to question her. But after her first answer to his first inquiry
he had fallen tongue-tied on the subject of Diana, and Nigeria had absorbed conversation. She,
on her side, wished him to know many things, but did not see how to begin upon them.

At last she attempted it.

"You have heard of our election? And what happened?"

He nodded. His mother had kept him informed. He understood Marsham had been badly hurt. Was
it really so desperate?

In a cautious voice, watching the window, Muriel told what she knew. The recital was pitiful;
but Hugh Roughsedge sat impassive, making no comments. She felt that in this quarter the young
man was adamant.

"I suppose"--he turned his face from her--"Miss Mallory does not now go to Tallyn."

"No." She hesitated, looking at her companion, a score of feelings mingling in her mind. Then
she broke out: "But she would like to!"

His startled look met hers; she was dismayed at what she had done. Yet, how not to give him
warning?--this loyal young fellow, feeding himself on futile hopes!

"You mean--she still thinks--of Marsham?"

"Of nothing else," she said, impetuously--"of nothing else!"

He frowned and winced.

She resumed: "It is like her--so like her!--isn't it?"

Her soft pitiful eyes, into which the tears had sprung, pressed the question on him.

"I thought there was a cousin--Miss Drake?" he said, roughly.

Mrs. Colwood hesitated.

"It is said that all that is broken off."

He was silent. But his watch was on the garden. And suddenly, on the long grass path, Diana
appeared, side by side with the Vicar. Roughsedge sprang up. Muriel was arrested by Diana's
face, and by something rigid in the carriage of the head. What had the Vicar been saying to
her?--she asked herself, angrily. Never was there anything less discreet than the Vicar's handling
of human nature!--female human nature, in particular.

Hugh Roughsedge opened the glass door, and went to meet them. Diana, at sight of him, gave
a bewildered look, as though she scarcely knew him--then a perfunctory hand.

"Captain Roughsedge! They didn't tell me--"

"I want to speak to you," said the Vicar, peremptorily, to Mrs. Colwood; and he carried her
off round the corner of the house.

Diana gazed after them, and Roughsedge thought he saw her totter.

"You look so ill!" he said, stooping over her. "Come and sit down."

