Watch The Sky

 It's one thing to try to get away with what you
 believe to be a lie and be caught at it--
 and something different, and far worse
 sometimes, to find it isn't a lie ...

by James H. Schmitz

Illustrated by Hortens

Uncle William Boles' war-battered old Geest gun gave the impression that at some stage of its
construction it had been pulled out of shape and then hardened in that form. What remained
of it was all of one piece. The scarred and pitted twin barrels were stubby and thick, and
the vacant oblong in the frame behind them might have contained standard energy magazines.
It was the stock which gave the alien weapon its curious appearance. Almost eighteen inches
long, it curved abruptly to the right and was too thin, knobbed and indented to fit comfortably
at any point in a human hand. Over half a century had passed since, with the webbed, boneless
fingers of its original owner closed about it, it last spat deadly radiation at human foemen.
Now it hung among Uncle William's other collected oddities on the wall above the living room
fireplace.

And today, Phil Boles thought, squinting at the gun with reflectively narrowed eyes, some eight
years after Uncle William's death, the old war souvenir would quietly become a key factor in
the solution of a colonial planet's problems. He ran a finger over the dull, roughened frame,
bent closer to study the neatly lettered inscription: GUNDERLAND BATTLE TROPHY, ANNO 2172,
SGT. WILLIAM G. BOLES. Then, catching a familiar series of clicking noises from the hall, he
straightened quickly and turned away. When Aunt Beulah's go-chair came rolling back into the
room, Phil was sitting at the low tea table, his back to the fireplace.

The go-chair's wide flexible treads carried it smoothly down the three steps to the sunken
section of the living room, Beulah sitting jauntily erect in it, for all the ninety-six years
which had left her the last survivor of the original group of Earth settlers on the world of
Roye. She tapped her fingers here and there on the chair's armrests, swinging it deftly about,
and brought it to a stop beside the tea table.

"That was Susan Feeney calling," she reported. "And there is somebody else for you who thinks
I have to be taken care of! Go ahead and finish the pie, Phil. Can't hurt a husky man like
you. Got a couple more baking for you to take along."

Phil grinned. "That'd be worth the trip up from Fort Roye all by itself."

Beulah looked pleased. "Not much else I can do for my great-grand nephew nowadays, is there?"

Phil said, after a moment, "Have you given any further thought to--"

"Moving down to Fort Roye?" Beulah pursed her thin lips. "Goodness, Phil, I do hate to disappoint
you again, but I'd be completely out of place in a town apartment."

"Dr. Fitzsimmons would be pleased," Phil remarked.

"Oh, him! Fitz is another old worry wart. What he wants is to get me into the hospital. Nothing
doing!"

Phil shook his head helplessly, laughed. "After all, working a tupa ranch--"

"Nonsense. The ranch is just enough bother to be interesting. The appliances do everything
anyway, and Susan is down here every morning for a chat and to make sure I'm still all right.
She won't admit that, of course, but if she thinks something should be taken care of, the whole
Feeney family shows up an hour later to do it. There's really no reason for you to be sending
a dozen men up from Fort Roye every two months to harvest the tupa."

Phil shrugged. "No one's ever yet invented an easy way to dig up those roots. And the CLU's
glad to furnish the men."

"Because you're its president?"

"Uh-huh."

"It really doesn't cost you anything?" Beulah asked doubtfully.

"Not a cent."

       *       *       *

"Hm-m-m. Been meaning to ask you. What made you set up that ... Colonial Labor Union?"

Phil nodded. "That's the official name."

"Why did you set it up in the first place?"

"That's easy to answer," Phil said. "On the day the planetary population here touched the forty
thousand mark, Roye became legally entitled to its labor union. Why not take advantage of it?"

"What's the advantage?"

"More Earth money coming in, for one thing. Of the twelve hundred CLU members we've got in
Fort Roye now, seventy-six per cent were unemployed this month. We'll have a compensation check
from the Territorial Office with the next ship coming in." He smiled at her expression. "Sure,
the boys could go back to the tupa ranches. But not everyone likes that life as well as you
and the Feeneys."

"Earth government lets you get away with it?" Beulah asked curiously. "They used to be pretty
tight-fisted."

"They still are--but it's the law. The Territorial Office also pays any CLU president's salary,
incidentally. I don't draw too much at the moment, but that will go up automatically with the
membership and my responsibilities."

"What responsibilities?"

"We've set up a skeleton organization," Phil explained. "Now, when Earth government decides
eventually to establish a big military base here, they can run in a hundred thousand civilians
in a couple of months and everyone will be fitted into the pattern on Roye without trouble
or confusion. That's really the reason for all the generosity."

Beulah sniffed. "Big base, my eye! There hasn't been six months since I set foot here that
somebody wasn't talking about Fort Roye being turned into a Class A military base pretty soon.
It'll never happen, Phil. Roye's a farm planet, and that's what it's going to stay."

Phil's lips twitched. "Well, don't give up hope."

"I'm not anxious for any changes," Beulah said. "I like Roye the way it is."

She peered at a button on the go-chair's armrest which had just begun to put out small bright-blue
flashes of light. "Pies are done," she announced. "Phil, are you sure you can't stay for dinner?"

Phil looked at his watch, shook his head. "I'd love to, but I really have to get back."

"Then I'll go wrap up the pies for you."

Beulah swung the go-chair around, sent it slithering up the stairs and out the door. Phil stood
up quickly. He stepped over to the fireplace, opened his coat and detached a flexible, box-shaped
object from the inner lining. He laid this object on the mantle, and turned one of three small
knobs about its front edge to the right. The box promptly extruded a supporting leg from each
of its four corners, pushed itself up from the mantle and became a miniature table. Phil glanced
at the door through which Beulah had vanished, listened a moment, then took the Geest gun from
the wall, laid it carefully on top of the device and twisted the second dial.

The odd-looking gun began to sink slowly down through the surface of Phil's instrument, like
a rock disappearing in mud. Within seconds it vanished completely; then, a moment later, it
began to emerge from the box's underside. Phil let the Geest gun drop into his hand, replaced
it on the wall, turned the third knob. The box withdrew its supports and sank down to the mantle.
Phil clipped it back inside his coat, closed the coat, and strolled over to the center of the
room to wait for Aunt Beulah to return with the pies.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was curious, Phil Boles reflected as his aircar moved out over the craggy, plunging coastline
to the north some while later, that a few bold minds could be all that was needed to change
the fate of a world. A few minds with imagination enough to see how circumstances about them
might be altered.

On his left, far below, was now the flat ribbon of the peninsula, almost at sea level, its
tip widening and lifting into the broad, rocky promontory on which stood Fort Roye--the only
thing on the planet bigger and of more significance than the shabby backwoods settlements.
And Fort Roye was neither very big nor very significant. A Class F military base around which,
over the years, a straggling town had come into existence, Fort Roye was a space-age trading
post linking Roye's population to the mighty mother planet, and a station from which the otherwise
vacant and utterly unimportant 132nd Segment of the Space Territories was periodically and
uneventfully patrolled. It was no more than that. Twice a month, an Earth ship settled down
to the tiny port, bringing supplies, purchases, occasional groups of reassigned military and
civilians--the latter suspected of being drawn as a rule from Earth's Undesirable classification.
The ship would take off some days later, with a return load of the few local products for which
there was outside demand, primarily the medically valuable tupa roots; and Fort Roye lay quiet
again.

The planet was not at fault. Essentially, it had what was needed to become a thriving colony
in every sense. At fault was the Geest War. The war had periods of flare-up and periods in
which it seemed to be subsiding. During the past decade it had been subsiding again. One of
the early flare-ups, one of the worst, and the one which brought the war closest to Earth itself,
was the Gunderland Battle in which Uncle William Boles' trophy gun had been acquired. But the
war never came near Roye. The action was all in the opposite section of the giant sphere of
the Space Territories, and over the years the war drew steadily farther away.

And Earth's vast wealth--its manpower, materials and money--was pouring into space in the direction
the Geest War was moving. Worlds not a tenth as naturally attractive as Roye, worlds where
the basic conditions for human life were just above the unbearable point, were settled and
held, equipped with everything needed and wanted to turn them into independent giant fortresses,
with a population not too dissatisfied with its lot. When Earth government didn't count the
expense, life could be made considerably better than bearable almost anywhere.

Those were the circumstances which condemned Roye to insignificance. Not everyone minded. Phil
Boles, native son, did mind. His inclinations were those of an operator, and he was not being
given an adequate opportunity to exercise them. Therefore, the circumstances would have to
be changed, and the precise time to make the change was at hand. Phil himself was not aware
of every factor involved, but he was aware of enough of them. Back on Earth, a certain political
situation was edging towards a specific point of instability. As a result, an Earth ship which
was not one of the regular freighters had put down at Fort Roye some days before. Among its
passengers were Commissioner Sanford of the Territorial Office, a well-known politician, and
a Mr. Ronald Black, the popular and enterprising owner of Earth's second largest news outlet
system. They were on a joint fact-finding tour of the thinly scattered colonies in this remote
section of the Territories, and had wound up eventually at the most remote of all--the 132nd
Segment and Roye.

That was one factor. Just visible twenty thousand feet below Phil--almost directly beneath
him now as the aircar made its third leisurely crossing of the central belt of the peninsula--was
another. From here it looked like an irregular brown circle against the peninsula's nearly
white ground. Lower down, it would have resembled nothing so much as the broken and half-decayed
spirals of a gigantic snail shell, its base sunk deep in the ground and its shattered point
rearing twelve stories above it. This structure, known popularly as "the ruins" in Fort Roye,
was supposed to have been the last stronghold of a semi-intelligent race native to Roye, which
might have become extinct barely a century before the Earthmen arrived. A factor associated
with the ruins again was that their investigation was the passionately pursued hobby of First
Lieutenant Norman Vaughn, Fort Roye's Science Officer.

Add to such things the reason Roye was not considered in need of a serious defensive effort
by Earth's strategists--the vast distances between it and any troubled area, and so the utter
improbability that a Geest ship might come close enough to discover that here was another world
as well suited for its race as for human beings. And then a final factor: the instrument attached
to the lining of Phil's coat--a very special "camera" which now carried the contact impressions
made on it by Uncle William's souvenir gun. Put 'em all together, Phil thought cheerily, and
they spelled out interesting developments on Roye in the very near future.

He glanced at his watch again, swung the aircar about and started back inland. He passed presently
high above Aunt Beulah's tupa ranch and that of the Feeney family two miles farther up the
mountain, turned gradually to the east and twenty minutes later was edging back down the ranges
to the coast. Here in a wild, unfarmed region, perched at the edge of a cliff dropping nearly
nine hundred feet to the swirling tide, was a small, trim cabin which was the property of a
small, trim Fort Roye lady named Celia Adams. Celia had been shipped out from Earth six years
before, almost certainly as an Undesirable, though only the Territorial Office and Celia herself
knew about that, the Botany Bay aspect of worlds like Roye being handled with some tact by Earth.

       *       *       *

Phil approached the cabin only as far as was necessary to make sure that the dark-green aircar
parked before it was one belonging to Major Wayne Jackson, the Administration Officer and second
in command at Fort Roye--another native son and an old acquaintance. He then turned away, dropped
to the woods ten miles south and made a second inconspicuous approach under cover of the trees.
There might be casual observers in the area, and while his meeting with Jackson and Celia Adams
today revealed nothing in itself, it would be better if no one knew about it.

He grounded the car in the forest a few hundred yards from the Adams cabin, slung a rifle over
his shoulder and set off along a game path. It was good hunting territory, and the rifle would
explain his presence if he ran into somebody. When he came within view of the cabin, he discovered
Celia and her visitor on the covered back patio, drinks standing before them. Jackson was in
hunting clothes. Phil remained quietly back among the trees for some seconds watching the two,
aware of something like a last-minute hesitancy. A number of things passed slowly through his mind.

What they planned to do was no small matter. It was a hoax which should have far-reaching results,
on a gigantic scale. And if Earth government realized it had been hoaxed, the thing could become
very unpleasant. That tough-minded central bureaucracy did not ordinarily bother to obtain
proof against those it suspected. The suspicion was enough. Individuals and groups whom the
shadow of doubt touched found themselves shunted unobtrusively into some backwater of existence
and kept there. It was supposed to be very difficult to emerge from such a position again.

