But obviously with a team of players and an extensive country, one could have a general controlling
the whole campaign, divisional commanders, batteries of guns, specialised brigades, and a quite
military movement of the whole affair. I have (as several illustrations show) tried Little
Wars in the open air. The toy soldiers stand quite well on closely mown grass, but the long-range
gun-fire becomes a little uncertain if there is any breeze. It gives a greater freedom of movement
and allows the players to lie down more comfortably when firing, to increase, and even double,
the moves of the indoor game. One can mark out high roads and streams with an ordinary lawn-tennis
marker, mountains and rocks of stones, and woods and forests of twigs are easily arranged.
But if the game is to be left out all night and continued next day (a thing I have as yet had
no time to try), the houses must be of some more solid material than paper. I would suggest
painted blocks of wood. On a large lawn, a wide country-side may be easily represented. The
players may begin with a game exactly like the ordinary Kriegspiel, with scouts and boxed soldiers,
which will develop into such battles as are here described, as the troops come into contact.
It would be easy to give the roads a real significance by permitting a move half as long again
as in the open country for waggons or boxed troops along a road. There is a possibility of
having a toy railway, with stations or rolling stock into which troops might be put, on such
a giant war map. One would allow a move for entraining and another for detraining, requiring
the troops to be massed alongside the train at the beginning and end of each journey, and the
train might move at four or five times the cavalry rate. One would use open trucks and put
in a specified number of men--say twelve infantry or five cavalry or half a gun per truck--and
permit an engine to draw seven or eight trucks, or move at a reduced speed with more. One could
also rule that four men--the same four men--remaining on a line during two moves, could tear
up a rail, and eight men in three moves replace it.

I will confess I have never yet tried over these more elaborate developments of Little Wars,
partly because of the limited time at my disposal, and partly because they all demand a number
of players who are well acquainted with the same on each side if they are not to last interminably.
The Battle of Hook's Farm (one player a side) took a whole afternoon, and most of my battles
have lasted the better part of a day.

VI

ENDING WITH A SORT OF CHALLENGE

I COULD go on now and tell of battles, copiously. In the memory of the one skirmish I have
given I do but taste blood. I would like to go on, to a large, thick book. It would be an agreeable
task. Since I am the chief inventor and practiser (so far) of Little Wars, there has fallen
to me a disproportionate share of victories. But let me not boast. For the present, I have
done all that I meant to do in this matter. It is for you, dear reader, now to get a floor,
a friend, some soldiers and some guns, and show by a grovelling devotion your appreciation
of this noble and beautiful gift of a limitless game that I have given you.

