The Atlanta Constitution, in speaking of the murder of Cranford, said that the Negro who was
suspected would be burned alive. Not only this, but it offered $500 reward for his capture.
After he had been apprehended, it was publicly announced that he would be burned alive. Excursion
trains were run and bulletins were put up in the small towns. The Governor of Georgia was in
Atlanta while excursion trains were being made up to take visitors to the burning. Many fair
ladies drove out in their carriages on Sunday afternoon to witness the torture and burning
of a human being. Hose's ears were cut off, then his toes and fingers, and passed round to
the crowd. His eyes were put out, his tongue torn out and flesh cut in strips by knives. Finally
they poured coal oil on him and burned him to death. They dragged his half-consumed trunk out
of the flames, cut it open, extracted his heart and liver, and sold slices for ten cents each
for souvenirs, all of which was published most promptly in the daily papers of Georgia and
boasted over by the people of that section.

Oct. 19, 1889, at Canton, Miss., Joseph Leflore was burned to death. A house had been entered
and its occupants murdered during the absence of the husband and father. When the discovery
was made, it was immediately supposed that the crime was the work of a Negro, and the motive
that of assaulting white women. 

The Duchies were overrun by Prussian troops, while the Danish Navy held the sea. Morier rushed
off to see for himself what was happening, and spent some interesting days at Kiel, talking
to those who could instruct him, and forming his own judgement. This was adverse to the wisdom
of the Copenhagen Radicals, who were trying to assert by force their
supremacy over a German population.

In the circumstances, as Prussia gave way to the wishes of other powers, no satisfactory decision
could be reached; but ten years later the issue was in the ruthless hands of Bismarck, and
was settled by'blood and iron'.

In 1850 Morier accepted a clerkship in the Education Office at£ 120
a year. The work was not to his taste, but at least it was public
service, and he saw no hope of employment in the Foreign Office.
In every single instance except one these burnings were witnessed by from two thousand to fifteen
thousand people, and no one person in all these crowds throughout the country had the courage
to raise his voice and speak out against the awful barbarism of burning human beings to death.

Men and women of America, are you proud of this record which the Anglo-Saxon race has made
for itself? Your silence seems to say that you are. Your silence encourages a continuance of
this sort of horror. Only by earnest, active, united endeavor to arouse public sentiment can
we hope to put a stop to these demonstrations of American barbarism.

+LYNCHING RECORD+

The following table of lynchings has been kept year by year by the Chicago Tribune, beginning
with 1882, and shows the list of Negroes that have been lynched during that time:

1882, Negroes murdered by mobs       52 1883, Negroes murdered by mobs       39 1884, Negroes
murdered by mobs       53 1885, Negroes murdered by mobs      164 1886, Negroes murdered by
mobs      136 1887, Negroes murdered by mobs      128 1888, Negroes murdered by mobs      143
1889, Negroes murdered by mobs      127 1890, Negroes murdered by mobs      171 1891, Negroes
murdered by mobs      192 1892, Negroes murdered by mobs      241 1893, Negroes murdered by
mobs      200 1894, Negroes murdered by mobs      190 1895, Negroes murdered by mobs      171
1896, Negroes murdered by mobs      131 1897, Negroes murdered by mobs      156 1898, Negroes
murdered by mobs      127 1899, Negroes murdered by mobs      107

Of these thousands of men and women who have been put to death without judge or jury, less
than one-third of them have been even accused of criminal assault. The world at large has accepted
unquestionably the statement that Negroes are lynched only for assaults upon white women. Of
those who were lynched from 1882 to 1891, the first ten years of the tabulated lynching record,
the charges are as follows:

Two hundred and sixty-nine were charged with rape; 253 with murder; 44 with robbery; 37 with
incendiarism; 4 with burglary; 27 with race prejudice; 13 quarreled with white men; 10 with
making threats; 7 with rioting; 5 with miscegenation; in 32 cases no reasons were given, the
victims were lynched on general principles.

During the past five years the record is as follows:

Of the 171 persons lynched in 1895 only 34 were charged with this crime. In 1896, out of 131
persons who were lynched, only 34 were said to have assaulted women. Of the 156 in 1897, only
32. In 1898, out of 127 persons lynched, 24 were charged with the alleged "usual crime." In
1899, of the 107 lynchings, 16 were said to be for crimes against women. These figures, of
course, speak for themselves, and to the unprejudiced, fair-minded person it is only necessary
to read and study them in order to show that the charge that the Negro is a moral outlaw is
a false one, made for the purpose of injuring the Negro's good name and to create public sentiment
against him. 

And as with the Clare election, so with the Irish potato famine in 1845: a definite event arrested
his attention and clamoured for instant decision. Peel was as humane a man as has ever presided
over the destinies of this country, and the picture of Ireland's sufferings was brought forcibly
before his imagination by the reports presented to him and by his own knowledge of the country.
His personal consistency could not be put in the balance against
national distress.

That is all the Negro asks--that is all the friends of law and order need to ask, for once
the law of the land is supreme, no individual who commits crime will escape punishment.

Individual Negroes commit crimes the same as do white men, but that the Negro race is peculiarly
given to assault upon women, is a falsehood of the deepest dye. The tables given above show
that the Negro who is saucy to white men is lynched as well as the Negro who is charged with
assault upon women. Less than one-sixth of the lynchings last year, 1899, were charged with rape.

The Negro points to his record during the war in rebuttal of this false slander. When the white
women and children of the South had no protector save only these Negroes, not one instance
is known where the trust was betrayed. It is remarkably strange that the Negro had more respect
for womanhood with the white men of the South hundreds of miles away, than they have today,
when surrounded by those who take their lives with impunity and burn and torture, even worse
than the "unspeakable Turk."

Again, the white women of the North came South years ago, threaded the forests, visited the
cabins, taught the schools and associated only with the Negroes whom they came to teach, and
had no protectors near at hand. They had no charge or complaint to make of the danger to themselves
after association with this class of human beings. Not once has the country been shocked by
such recitals from them as come from the women who are surrounded by their husbands, brothers,
lovers and friends. If the Negro's nature is bestial, it certainly should have proved itself
in one of these two instances. The Negro asks only justice and an impartial consideration of
these facts.