Moreover, she is certainly right to be dissatisfied, if, after spending twenty-five years,
more or less, she is to be left in middle life, her forces spent, without interests and obligations
which will occupy brain and heart to the full, without important tasks which are the logical
outcome of her experience and which she must carry on in order to complete that experience.

But what is the truth about it? What is the Business of Being a Woman? Is it something incompatible
with free and joyous development of one's talents? Is there no place in it for economic independence?
Has it no essential relation to the world's movements? Is it an episode which drains the forces
and leaves a dreary wreck behind? Is it something that cannot be organized into a profession
of dignity, and opportunity for service and for happiness?

CHAPTER III

THE BUSINESS OF BEING A WOMAN

Respect for the Creator of this world is basic among all civilized people. The longer one lives,
the more thoroughly one realizes the soundness of this respect. The earth and its works are
good. Most human conceptions are barred by strange inconsistencies. The man who praises the
works of the Creator as all wise not infrequently treats His arrangement for carrying on the
race as if it were unfit to be spoken of in polite society. Nowhere does the modern God-fearing
man come nearer to sacrilege than in his attitude toward the divine plan for renewing life.

A strange mixture of sincerity and hypocrisy, self-flagellation and lust, aspiration and superstition,
has gone into the making of this attitude. With the development of it we have nothing to do
here. What does concern us is the effect of this profanity on the Business of Being a Woman.

The central fact of the woman's life--Nature's reason for her--is the child, his bearing and
rearing. There is no escape from the divine order that her life must be built around this constraint,
duty, or privilege, as she may please to consider it. But from the beginning to the end of
life she is never permitted to treat it naturally and frankly. As a child accepting all that
opens to her as a matter of course, she is steered away from it as if it were something evil.
Her first essays at evasion and spying often come to her in connection with facts which are
sacred and beautiful and which she is perfectly willing to accept as such if they were treated
intelligently and reverently. If she could be kept from all knowledge of the procession of
new life except as Nature reveals it to her, there would be reason in her treatment. But this
is impossible. From babyhood she breathes the atmosphere of unnatural prejudices and misconceptions
which envelop the fact.

Throughout her girlhood the atmosphere grows thicker. She finally faces the most perilous and
beautiful of experiences with little more than the ideas which have come to her from the confidences
of evil-minded servants, inquisitive and imaginative playmates, or the gossip she overhears
in her mother's society. Every other matter of her life, serious and commonplace, has received
careful attention, but here she has been obliged to feel her way and, worst of abominations,
to feel it with an inner fear that she ought not to know or seek to know.

If there were no other reason for the modern woman's revolt against marriage, the usual attitude
toward its central facts would be sufficient. The idea that celibacy for woman is "the aristocracy
of the future" is soundly based if the Business of Being a Woman rests on a mystery so questionable
that it cannot be frankly and truthfully explained by a girl's mother at the moment her interest
and curiosity seeks satisfaction. That she gets on as well as she does, results, of course,
from the essential soundness of the girl's nature, the armor of modesty, right instinct, and
reverence with which she is endowed.

The direst result of ignorance or of distorted ideas of this tremendous matter of carrying
on human life is that it leaves the girl unconscious of the supreme importance of her mate.
So heedlessly and ignorantly is our mating done to-day that the huge machinery of Church and
State and the tremendous power of public opinion combined have been insufficient to preserve
to the institution of marriage anything like the stability it once had, or that it is desirable
that it should have, if its full possibilities are to be realized. The immorality and inhumanity
of compelling the obviously mismated to live together, grow on society. Divorce and separation
are more and more tolerated. Yet little is done to prevent the hasty and ill-considered mating
which is at the source of the trouble.

Rarely has a girl a sound and informed sense to guide her in accepting her companion. The corollary
of this bad proposition is that she has no sufficient idea of the seriousness of her undertaking.
She starts out as if on a lifelong joyous holiday, primarily devised for her personal happiness.
And what is happiness in her mind? Certainly it is not a good to be conquered--a state of mind
wrested from life by tackling and mastering its varied experiences, the end, not the beginning,
of a great journey. Too often it is that of the modern Uneasy Woman--the attainment of something
outside of herself. She visualizes it, as possessions, as ease, a "good time," opportunities
for self-culture, the exclusive devotion of the mate to her. Rarely does she understand that
happiness in her undertaking depends upon the wisdom and sense with which she conquers a succession
of hard places--calling for readjustment of her ideas and sacrifice of her desires. All this
she must discover for herself. She is like a voyager who starts out on a great sea with no
other chart than a sailor's yarns, no other compass than curiosity.

The budget of axioms she brings to her guidance she has picked up helter-skelter. They are
the crumbs gathered from the table of the Uneasy Woman, or worse, of the pharisaical and satisfied
woman, from good and bad books, from newspaper exploitations of divorce and scandal, from sly
gossip with girls whose budget of marital wisdom is as higgledy-piggledy as her own.

And a pathetically trivial budget it is:--

"He must tell her everything." "He must always pick up what she drops." "He must dress for
dinner." "He must remember her birthday." That is, she begins her adventure with a set of hard-and-fast
rules,--and nothing in this life causes more mischief than the effort to force upon another
one's own rules!

That marriage gives the finest opportunity that life affords for practicing, not rules, but
principles, she has never been taught. Flexibility, adaptation, fair-mindedness, the habit
of supplementing the weakness of the one by the strength of the other, all the fine things
upon which the beauty, durability, and growth of human relations depend,--these are what decide
the future of her marriage. These she misses while she insists on her rules; and ruin is often
the end. Study the causes back of divorces and separations, the brutal criminal causes aside,
and one finds that usually they begin in trivial things,--an irritating habit or an offensive
opinion persisted in on the one side and not endured philosophically on the other; a petty
selfishness indulged on the one side and not accepted humorously on the other,--that is, the
marriage is made or unmade by small, not great, things.

It is a lack of any serious consideration of the nature of the undertaking she is going into
which permits her at the start to accept a false notion of her economic position. She agrees
that she is being "supported"; she consents to accept what is given her; she even consents
to ask for money. Men and society at large take her at her own valuation. Loose thinking by
those who seek to influence public opinion has aggravated the trouble. They start with the
idea that she is a parasite--does not pay her way. "Men hunt, fish, keep the cattle, or raise
corn," says a popular writer, "for women to eat the game, the fish, the meat, and the corn."
The inference is that the men alone render useful service. But neither man nor woman eats of
these things until the woman has prepared them. The theory that the man who raises corn does
a more important piece of work than the woman who makes it into bread is absurd. The theory
that she does something more difficult and less interesting is equally absurd.

The practice of handing over the pay envelope at the end of the week to the woman, so common
among laboring people, is a recognition of her equal economic function. It is a recognition
that the venture of the two is common and that its success depends as much on the care and
intelligence with which she spends the money as it does on the energy and steadiness with which
he earns it. Whenever one or the other fails, trouble begins. The failure to understand this
business side of the marriage relation almost inevitably produces humiliation and irritation.
So serious has the strain become because of this false start that various devices have been
suggested to repair it--Mr. Wells' "Paid Motherhood" is one; weekly wages as for a servant
is another. Both notions encourage the primary mistake that the woman has not an equal economic
place with the man in the marriage.

Marriage is a business as well as a sentimental partnership. But a business partnership brings
grave practical responsibilities, and this, under our present system, the girl is rarely trained
to face. She becomes a partner in an undertaking where her function is spending. The probability
is she does not know a credit from a debit, has to learn to make out a check correctly, and
has no conscience about the fundamental matter of living within the allowance which can be
set aside for the family expenses. When this is true of her, she at once puts herself into
the rank of an incompetent--she becomes an economic dependent. She has laid the foundation
for becoming an Uneasy Woman.

It is common enough to hear women arguing that this close grappling with household economy
is narrowing, not worthy of them. Why keeping track of the cost of eggs and butter and calculating
how much your income will allow you to buy is any more narrowing than keeping track of the
cost and quality of cotton or wool or iron and calculating how much a mill requires, it is
hard to see. It is the same kind of a problem. Moreover, it has the added interest of being
always an independent personal problem. Most men work under the deadening effect of impersonal
routine. They do that which others have planned and for results in which they have no permanent
share.

But the woman argues that her task has no relation to the state. Her failure to see that relation
costs this country heavily. Her concern is with retail prices. If she does her work intelligently,
she follows and studies every fluctuation of price in standards. She also knows whether she
is receiving the proper quality and quantity; and yet so poorly have women discharged these
obligations that dealers for years have been able to manipulate prices practically to please
themselves, and as for quality and quantity we have the scandal of American woolen goods, of
food adulteration, of false weights and measures. No one of these things could have come about
in this country if woman had taken her business as a consumer with anything like the seriousness
with which man takes his as a producer.

Her ignorance in handling the products of industry has helped the monopolistically inclined
trust enormously. I can remember the day when the Beef Trust invaded a certain Middle Western
town. The war on the old-time butchers of the village was open. "Buy of us," was the order,
"or we'll fill the storage house so full that the legs of the steers will hang out of the windows,
and we'll give away the meat." The women of the town had a prosperous club which might have
resisted the tyranny which the members all deplored, but the club was busy that winter with
the study of the Greek drama! They deplored the tyranny, but they bought the cut-rate meat--the
old butchers fought to a finish, and the housekeepers are now paying higher prices for poorer
meat and railing at the impotency of man in breaking up the Beef Trust!

If two years ago when the question of a higher duty on hosiery was before Congress any woman
or club of women had come forward with carefully tabulated experiments, showing exactly the
changes which have gone on of late years in the shape, color, and wearing quality of the 15-,
25-, and 50-cent stockings, the stockings of the poor, she would have rendered a genuine economic
service. The women held mass meetings and prepared petitions instead, using on the one side
the information the shopkeepers furnished, on the other that which the stocking manufacturers
furnished. Agitation based upon anything but personal knowlledge is not a public service. It
may be easily a grave public danger. The facts needed for fixing the hosiery duty the women
should have furnished, for they buy the stockings.

If the Uneasy American Woman were really fulfilling her economic functions to-day, she would
never allow a short pound of butter, a yard of adulterated woolen goods, to come into her home.
She would never buy a ready-made garment which did not bear the label of the Consumer's League.
She would recognize that she is a guardian of quality, honesty, and humanity in industry.

A persistent misconception of the nature and the possibilities of this practical side of the
Business of Being a Woman runs through all present-day discussions of the changes in household
economy. The woman no longer has a chance to pay her way, we are told, because it is really
cheaper to buy bread than to bake it, to buy jam than to put it up. Of course, this is a part
of the vicious notion that a woman only makes an economic return by the manual labor she does.
The Uneasy Woman takes up the point and complains that she has nothing to do. But this release
from certain kinds of labor once necessary, merely puts upon her the obligation to apply the
ingenuity and imagination necessary to make her business meet the changes of an ever changing
world. Because the conditions under which a household must be run now are not what they were
fifty years ago is no proof that the woman no longer has here an important field of labor.
There is more to the practical side of her business than preparing food for the family! It
means, for one thing, the directing of its wants. The success of a household lies largely in
its power of selection. To-day selection has given way to accumulation. The family becomes
too often an incorporated company for getting things--with frightful results. The woman holds
the only strong strategic position from which to war on this tendency, as well as on the habits
of wastefulness which are making our national life increasingly hard and ugly. She is so positioned
that she can cultivate and enforce simplicity and thrift, the two habits which make most for
elegance and for satisfaction in the material things of life.

Whenever a woman does master this economic side of her business in a manner worthy of its importance,
she establishes the most effective school for teaching thrift, quality, management, selection--all
the factors in the economic problem. Such scientific household management is the rarest kind
of a training school. And here we touch the most vital part in the Woman's Business--that of
education.

Every home is perforce a good or bad educational center. It does its work in spite of every
effort to shirk or supplement it. No teacher can entirely undo what it does, be that good or
bad. The natural joyous opening of a child's mind depends on its first intimate relations.
These are, as a rule, with the mother. It is the mother who "takes an interest," who oftenest
decides whether the new mind shall open frankly and fearlessly. How she does her work, depends
less upon her ability to answer questions than her effort not to discourage them; less upon
her ability to lead authoritatively into great fields than her efforts to push the child ahead
into those which attract him. To be responsive to his interests is the woman's greatest contribution
to the child's development.

I remember a call once made on me by two little girls when our time was spent in an excited
discussion of the parts of speech. They were living facts to them, as real as if their discovery
had been printed that morning for the first time in the newspaper. I was interested to find
who it was that had been able to keep their minds so naturally alive. I found that it came
from the family habit of treating with respect whatever each child turned up. Nothing was slurred
over as if it had no relation to life--not even the parts of speech! They were not asked or
forced to load themselves up with baggage in which they soon discovered their parents had no
interest. Everything was treated as if it had a permanent place in the scheme to which they
were being introduced. It is only in some such relation that the natural bent of most children
can flower, that they can come early to themselves. Where this warming, nourishing intimacy
is wanting, where the child is turned over to schools to be put through the mass drill which
numbers make imperative--it is impossible for the most intelligent teacher to do a great deal
to help the child to his own. What the Uneasy Woman forgets is that no two children born were
ever alike, and no two children who grow to manhood and womanhood will ever live the same life.
The effort to make one child like another, to make him what his parents want, not what he is
born to be, is one of the most cruel and wasteful in society. It is the woman's business to
prevent this.

The Uneasy Woman tells you that this close attention to the child is too confining, too narrowing.
"I will pity Mrs. Jones for the hugeness of her task," says Chesterton; "I will never pity
her for its smallness." A woman never lived who did all she might have done to open the mind
of her child for its great adventure. It is an exhaustless task. The woman who sees it knows
she has need of all the education the college can give, all the experience and culture she
can gather. She knows that the fuller her individual life, the broader her interests, the better
for the child. She should be a person in his eyes. The real service of the "higher education,"
the freedom to take a part in whatever interests or stimulates her--lies in the fact that it
fits her intellectually to be a companion worthy of a child. She should know that unless she
does this thing for him he goes forth with his mind still in swaddling clothes, with the chances
that it will not be released until relentless life tears off the bands.

The progress of society depends upon getting out of men and women an increasing amount of the
powers with which they are born and which bad surroundings at the start blunt or stupefy. This
is what all systems of education try to do, but the result of all systems of education depends
upon the material that comes to the educator. Opening the mind of the child, that is the delicate
task the state asks of the mother, and the quality of the future state depends upon the way
she discharges this part of her business.

