The young buck almost at our feet quickly recovered. He was not seriously hurt, only frightened
and winded. He rose to his feet and stood for an instant looking directly at us, his head with
its growing horns held high in the air, as if to thank us for the protection from a lesser
foe he had so boldly asked and so freely received of an all powerful enemy. Then, turning,
he lightly sped over the plain in an opposite direction, and the eagle, who had kept us in
sight until now, perhaps with a lingering hope, rose swiftly upwards and was lost to sight.

One elk with an eleven-point crown, and one antelope, of the finest ever brought down, is the
tax I levied on the wild things. Of the many, many times I have watched them and left them
unmolested, and of the lessons they have taught me, under Nimrod's guidance, I have not space
to tell, for the real fascination of hunting is not in the killing but in seeing the creature
at home amid his glorious surroundings, and feeling the freely rushing blood, the health-giving
air, the gleeful sense of joy and life in nature, both within and without.

XI.

WHAT I KNOW ABOUT WAHB OF THE BIGHORN BASIN.

A fourteen-inch track is big, even for a grizzly. That was the size of Wahb's. The first time
I saw it, the hole looked big enough for a baby's bath tub.

We were travelling in Mr. A.'s pack train across the Shoshones from Idaho to Wyoming. It was
the first of October, and by then, in that region, winter is shaking hands with you--pleasant
hands to be sure, but a bit cool. The night before we had made a picturesque camp on the lee
side of a rock cliff which was honeycombed with caves. A blazing camp fire was built at the
mouth of one of these and we lounged on the rock ledges inside, thoroughly protected from the
wind and cold. A storm was brewing. We could hear the pine trees whistle and shriek as they
were lashed about in the forest across the brook. The lurid light of the fire showed us ourselves
in distorted shadows. The whole place seemed wild and wicked, like a robber camp, and under
its spell one thought things and felt things that would have been impossible in the sun shine,
where everything is revealed. It began to snow, but we laughed at that. What did it matter
in the shelter of the cave? For the first time in days I was thoroughly toasted on all sides
at once. We had changed abruptly from the steam-heated Pullman to camping in snow, and it takes
a few days to get used to such a shock. We told tales as weird as the scene, until far into
the night. The next morning the sun was bright, but the cook had to cut a hole in the ice blanket
over the brook to get water. We dared not linger at our robber camp, for at any time a big
snowstorm might come that would cover the Wind River Divide, which we had to cross, with snow
too deep for the horses to travel.

Two days later, the weather still promising well, we decided to camp for a few days on the
Upper Wiggin's Fork to hunt. It was a lovely spot; one of those little grassy parks which but
for the uprising masses of mountains and towering trees might have surrounded your country home.

That first night as we sat around the camp fire there came out of the blackness behind us a
faint greeting--Wheres Who--Wheres Who--from a denizen of this mountain park, the great horned
owl. The next morning we packed biscuits into our saddle-bags and separated for the day into
two parties, Nimrod and the Horsewrangler, the Host and myself, leaving the Cook to take care
of camp. We were hunting for elk, mountain lion, or bear. Nimrod had his camera, as well as
his gun, a combination which the Horsewrangler eyed with scant tolerance.

The Host led me down the Wiggin's Fork for two miles, when we came out upon a sandy, pebbly
stretch which in spring the torrents entirely covered, but now had been dried up for months.
I was following mechanically, guiding Blondey's feet among the cobblestones, for nature had
paved the place very badly, without much thought for anything beyond the pleasure of being
alive, when the Host suddenly stopped and pointed to the ground. There I made out the track
of a huge bear going the way we were, and beyond was another, and another. Then they disappeared
like a row of post-holes into the distance. The Host said there was only one bear in that region
that could make a track like that; in spite of the fact that this was beyond his range, it
must be Meeteetsee Wahb. He got off his horse and measured the track. Yes, the hind foot tracked
fourteen inches. What a hole in the ground it looked!

The Host said the maker of it was probably far away, as he judged the track to be several weeks
old. I had heard so many tales of this monster that when I gazed upon his track I felt as though
I were looking at the autograph of a hero.

We saw other smaller grizzly and black bear tracks that day, so it was decided to set a bear
bait. Our Host was a cattle king, and could wage war on bears with a good conscience. The usual
three-cornered affair of logs was fixed, the trap in the centre and elk meat as a decoy. Horse
meat is more alluring, but we deemed we would not need that, since we had with us "a never-failing
bear charm." Its object was to suggest a lady bear, and thus attract some gallant to her side.
The secret of the preparation of this charm had been confided to Nimrod by an old hunter the
year before. It was a liquid composed of rancid fish oil, and--but I suppose I must not tell.
A more ungodly odour I have never known. Nimrod put a few drops of it on his horse's feet,
and all the other horses straightway ostracised him for several days till the worst of it wore
away. Even the cook allowed "it was all-fired nasty." So some of this bear charm went on the bait.

The next morning, as we started out for the day to roam the mountains, we first inspected the
bear pen. Nothing had been near it. Indeed that charm would keep everything else away, if not
the bear himself.

The next day it was the same story, but this really was no argument for or against the charm,
because, as I was told, bears in feeding usually make about a two weeks' circuit, and although
we had seen many tracks they were all stale, demonstrating in a rough way that if we could
linger for a week or two we would be sure to catch some one of the trackers on the return trip.

This we could not do, as the expected snow-storm was now threatening, and we were still two
days from the Divide. To be snowed up there would be serious. Before we could get packed up
the snow began, falling steadily and quietly as though reserving its forces for later violence.
We had been travelling about an hour from where we broke camp, when Nimrod beckoned me to join
him where he had halted with the Horsewrangler a little off the line the pack train was following.
I rode up quietly, thinking it might be game. But no; Horsewrangler pointed to a little bank
where there was a circular opening in the trees. I looked, but did not understand.

"Do you see that dip in the ground there where the snow melts as fast as it drops?"

"Yes."

"Wal, that there's a bear bath."

"A bear's bath!" I exclaimed, suspecting a hoax.

"Yes, a sulphur spring. I reckon this here one belongs to the Big Grizzly."

We examined the place with much interest, but found no fresh tracks, and the snow had covered
most of the stale ones, as "of course he ain't got no call for it in winter. Like as not, he's
denned up somewheres near, though it's a mite early."

This was thrilling. Perhaps we might pass within a few feet of Wahb and never know it. It was
like being told that the ghost of the dear departed is watching you. Nimrod pointed out to
me a tree with the bark scratched and torn off for several feet--one of Wahb's rubbing trees.
He located the sunning ledge for me, and then we reluctantly hurried on, for the journey ahead
promised to be long and hard. Indeed I found it so.

There were many indications that the storm was a serious one, and not the least of these was
the behaviour of the little chief hare, or pika. As we ascended the rocky mountain-side we
saw many of these little creatures scurrying hither and thither with bundles of hay in their
mouths, which they deposited in tiny hay-cocks in sheltered places under rocks. So hard were
they working that they could not even stop to be afraid of us. As all the party, but myself,
knew, this meant bad weather and winter; for these cute, overgrown rats are reliable barometers,
and they gave every indication that they were belated in getting their food supply, which had
been garnered in the autumn after the manner of their kind, properly housed for winter use.

All that day we worked our way through the forest with the silent snow deepening around us,
ever up and up, eight thousand, nine thousand, ten thousand feet. It was an endless day of
freezing in the saddle, and of snow showers in one's face from the overladen branches. I was
frightfully cold and miserable. Every minute seemed the last I could endure without screeching.
But still our Host pushed on. It was necessary to get near enough to the top of the Continental
Divide so that we could cross it the next day. It began to grow dark about three o'clock; the
storm increased. I kept saying over and over to myself what I was determined I should not say
out loud:

"Oh, please stop and make camp! I cannot stay in this saddle another minute. My left foot is
frozen. I know it is, and the saddle cramp is unbearable. I am so hungry, so cold, so exhausted;
oh, please stop!" Then, having wailed this out under my breath, I would answer it harshly:
"You little fool, stop your whimpering. The others are made of flesh and blood too. We should
be snowbound if we stopped here. Don't be a cry-baby. There is lots of good stuff in you yet.
This only seems terrible because you are not used to it, so brace up."

Then I would even smile at Nimrod who kept keen watch on me, or wave my hand at the Host, who
was in front. This appearance of unconcern helped me for a few seconds, and then I would begin
the weary round: "Oh, my foot, my back, my head; I cannot endure it another moment; I can't,
I can't." Yet all the while knowing that I could and would. Thus I fought through the afternoon,
and at last became just a numb thing on the horse with but one thought, "I can and will do
it." So at last when the order came to camp in four feet of snow ten thousand feet above the
sea, with the wind and snow blowing a high gale, I just drew rein and sat there on my tired beast.

We disturbed a band of mountain sheep that got over the deep snow with incredible swiftness.
It was my first view of these animals, but it aroused no enthusiasm in me, only a vague wonder
that they seemed to be enjoying themselves. Finally Nimrod came and pulled me off, I was too
stiff and numb to get down myself. Then I found that the snow was so deep I could not go four
feet. Not to be able to move about seemed to me the end of all things. I simply dropped in
the snow--it was impossible to ever be warm and happy again--and prepared at last to weep.

But I looked around first--Nimrod was coaxing a pack animal through the snow to a comparatively
level place where our tent and bed things could be placed. The Host was shovelling a pathway
between me and the spot where the Cook was coaxing a fire. The Horsewrangler was unpacking
the horses alone (so that I might have a fire the sooner). They were all grim--doubtless as
weary as I--but they were all working for my ultimate comfort, while I was about to repay them
by sitting in the snow and weeping. I pictured them in four separate heaps in the snow, all
weeping. This was too much; I did not weep. Instead by great effort I managed to get my horse
near the fire, and after thawing out a moment unsaddled the tired animal, who galloped off
gladly to join his comrades, and thus I became once more a unit in the economic force. But
bad luck had crossed its fingers at me that day without doubt, and I had to be taught another
lesson. I tell of it briefly as a warning to other women; of course--men always know better,
instinctively, as they know how to fight. I presume you will agree that ignorance is punished
more cruelly than any other thing, and that in most cases good intentions do not lighten the
offence. My ignorance that time was of the effect of eating snow on an empty stomach. My intentions
were of the best, for, being thirsty, I ate several handfuls of snow in order to save the cook
from getting water out of a brook that was frozen. But my punishment was the same--a severe
chill which made me very ill.

I had been cold all day, but that is a very different thing from having a chill. I felt stuffed
with snow; snow water ran in my veins, snow covered the earth, the peaks around me. I was mad
with snow. They gave me snow whisky and put me beside a snow fire. I had not told any one what
I had done, not realising what was the mischief maker, and it really looked as though I had
heart disease, or something dreadful.

They put rugs and coats around me till I could not move with their weight; but they were putting
them around a snow woman. The only thing I felt was the icy wind, and that went through my
shivering, shaking self. The snow was falling quietly and steadily, as it had fallen all day.
We must cross yonder divide to-morrow. It was no time to be ill. Every one felt that, and big,
black gloom was settling over the camp, when I by way of being cheerful remarked to the Host:
"Do you-ou kno-ow, I feel as though there was n-nothing of me b-but the sno-ow I ate an hour ago."

"Snow!" he exclaimed. "Did you eat much? Well, no wonder you are ill."

The effect was instantaneous. Everybody looked relieved; I was not even a heroine.

"I will soon cure you," said the Host, as he poured out more whisky, and the Cook reheated
some soup and chocolate. The hot drinks soon succeeded in thawing me from a snow woman back
to shivering flesh and blood which was supportable.

Nimrod looked pleasant again and began studying the mountain sheep tracks. The cook fell to
whistling softly from one side of his mouth, while a cigarette dangled from the other, as was
his wont when he puttered about the fire. The Horsewrangler was making everything tight for
the night against wind and snow. The Host lighted a cigarette, a calm expression glided over
his face, and he became chatty, and, although the storm was just as fierce and the thermometer
just as low, peace was restored to Camp Snow.

The next day we crossed the divide, and not a day too soon. The snow was so deep that the trail
breaker in front was in danger of going over a precipice or into a rock crevice at any time.
After him came the pack, animals, so that they could make a path for us. The path was just
the width of the horse, and in some places the walls of it rose above my head. In such places
I had to keep my feet high up in the saddle to prevent them from being crushed. For a half
day we struggled upwards with danger stalking by our sides, then on the very ridge of the divide
itself, 11,500 feet in the air, with the icy wind blowing a hurricane of blinding snow, we
skirted along a precipice the edge of which the snow covered so that we could not be sure when
a misstep might send us over into whatever is waiting for us in the next world.

But fortunately we did not even lose a horse. Then came the plunging down, down, with no chance
to pick steps because of the all-concealing snow. Those, indeed, were "stirring times," but
we made camp that night in clear weather and good spirits. We were on the right side of the
barrier and only two days from the Palette Ranch--and safety, not to say luxury.

If you had Aladdin's lamp and asked for a shooting box, you could hardly expect to find anything
more ideal than the Palette Ranch. There is no spot in the world more beautiful or more health
giving. It is tucked away by itself in the heart of the Rockies, 150 miles from the railroad,
40 miles from the stage route, and surrounded on the three sides by a wilderness of mountains.
And when after travelling over these for three weeks with compass as guide, one dark, stormy
night we stumbled and slipped down a mountain side and across an icy brook to its front lawn,
the message of good cheer that streamed in rosy light from its windows seemed like an opiate dream.

We entered a large living room, hung with tapestries and hunting trophies where a perfectly
appointed table was set opposite a huge stone fireplace, blazing with logs. Then came a delicious
course dinner with rare wines, and served by a French chef. The surprise and delight of it
in that wilderness--but the crowning delight was the guestroom. As we entered, it was a wealth
of colour in Japanese effect, soft glowing lanterns, polished floors, fur rugs, silk-furnished
beds and a crystal mantelpiece (brought from Japan) which reflected the fire-light in a hundred
tints. Beyond, through an open door, could be seen the tiled bath-room. It was a room that
would be charming anywhere, but in that region a veritable fairy's chamber. Truly it is a canny
Host who can thus blend harmoniously the human luxuries of the East and the natural glories
of the West.

In our rides around the Palette I saw Wahb's tracks once again. The Host had taken us to a
far away part of his possessions. Three beautiful wolf hounds frisked along beside us, when
all at once they became much excited about something they smelt in a little scrub-pine clump
on the right. We looked about for some track or sign that would explain their behaviour. I
spied a huge bear track.

"Hah!" I thought, "Wahb at last," and my heart went pit-a-pat as I pointed it out to Nimrod.
He recognised it but remained far too calm for my fancy. I pointed into the bushes with signs
of "Hurrah, it's Wahb." I received in reply a shake of the head and a pitying smile. How was
I to know that the dogs were saying as plainly as dogs need to "A bobcat treed"?

So I followed meekly and soon saw the bobcat's eyes glaring at us from the topmost branches.
The Host took a shot at it with the camera which the lynx did not seem to mind, and calling
off the disappointed dogs we went on our way. The Host allows no shooting within a radius of
twelve miles of the Palette. Any living thing can find protection there and the result is that
any time you choose to ride forth you can see perfectly wild game in their homeland.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not till the next year that I really saw Wahb. It was at his summer haunt, the Fountain
Hotel in the Yellowstone National Park. If you were to ask Nimrod to describe the Fountain
geyser or Hell Hole, or any of the other tourist sights thereabouts, I am sure he would shake
his head and tell you there was nothing but bears around the hotel. For this was the occasion
when Nimrod spent the entire day in the garbage heap watching the bears, while I did the conventional
thing and saw the sights.

About sunset I got back to the hotel. Much to my surprise I could not find Nimrod; and neither
had he been seen since morning, when he had started in the direction of the garbage heap in
the woods some quarter of a mile back from the hotel. Anxiously I hurried there, but could
see no Nimrod. Instead I saw the outline of a Grizzly feeding quietly on the hillside. It was
very lonely and gruesome. Under other circumstances I certainly would have departed quickly
the way I came, but now I must find Nimrod. It was growing dark, and the bear looked a shocking
size, as big as a whale. Dear me, perhaps Nimrod was inside--Jonah style. Just then I heard
a sepulchral whisper from the earth.

"Keep quiet, don't move, it's the Big Grizzly."

I looked about for the owner of the whisper and discovered Nimrod not far away in a nest he
had made for himself in a pile of rubbish. I edged nearer.

"See, over there in the woods are two black bears. You scared them away. Isn't he a monster?"
indicating Wahb.

I responded with appropriate enthusiasm. Then after a respectful silence I ventured to say:

"How long have you been here?"

"All day--and such a day--thirteen bears at one time. It is worth all your geysers rolled into one.

"H'm--Have you had anything to eat?"

"No." Another silence, then I began again.

"Aren't you hungry? Don't you want to come to dinner?"

He nodded yes. Then I sneaked away and came back as soon as possible with a change of clothes.
The scene was as I had left it, but duskier. I stood waiting for the next move. The Grizzly
made it. He evidently had finished his meal for the night, and now moved majestically off up
the hill towards the pine woods. At the edge of these he stood for a moment, Wahb's last appearance,
so far as I am concerned, for, as he posed, the fading, light dropped its curtain of darkness
between us, and I was able to get Nimrod away.

XII.

THE DEAD HUNT.

To hunt the wily puma, the wary elk, or the fleet-footed antelope is to have experiences strange
and varied, but for the largest assortment of thrills in an equal time the 'dead hunt' is the
most productive. My acquaintance with a 'dead hunt'--which is by no means a 'still hunt'--began
and ended at Raven Agency. It included horses, bicycles, and Indians, and followed none of
the customary rules laid down for a hunt, either in progress or result.

And, not to antagonise the reader, I will say now that it was very naughty to do what I did,
an impolite and ungenerous thing to do, on a par with the making up of slumming parties to
pry into the secrets of the poor. It was the act of a vandal, and at times--in the gray dawn
and on the first day of January--I am sorry about it; but then I should not have had that carved
bead armlet, and as that is the tail of my story, I will put it in the mouth and properly begin.

Nimrod and I went to the United States agency for the Asrapako or Raven Indians in--well, never
mind, not such a far cry from the Rockies, unless you are one of those uncomfortable persons
who carry a map of the United States in your mind's eye--because Burfield was there painting
Many Whacks, the famous chief; because Nimrod wanted to know what kind of beasties lived in
that region; and because I wanted a face to face encounter with the Indian at home. I got it.

