During this period and for some time after strenuous efforts were making for the discovery
and arrest of two men, McGowen and Wightman, who had been indicted as accomplices of Casey
in the murder of Mr. King. Great anxiety was felt for the arrest of McGowen not alone on account
of his complicity in the murder, but because it was believed that he knew more of the operations
of the ballot box stuffers and other political managers than any other person, and that if
taken, he would be likely to expose many who had stooped to obtain office or position by his
unscrupulous arts. Long and earnest search was made, but for some time, no trace of him could
be discovered. At length in the latter part of June, it was learned that he left the City on
horseback, disguised as a cattle drover, in company with an American and a Mexican, and had
been seen in Santa Barbara, a small town on the coast about four hundred miles below San Francisco.
Being recognized, he fled, and was pursued by a party from Santa Barbara. On receiving the
intelligence, the Executive Committee immediately dispatched twenty resolute men in a fast
sailing vessel to join in the pursuit. On the 16th of July an arrival from down the coast brought
information of his probable escape. His condition was represented to have been such as to have
excited pity for even such a criminal. When last seen he was dreadfully wearied and chafed
by his long ride, was without a hat to protect him from the fierce rays of the sun, his face
dreadfully burned and blistered, and oppressed with hunger and thirst; and thus the poor wretch,
loaded with guilt, flying from the gallows, with hate and despair stamped on his face, spurred
on in his mad flight.

In the first week of June, measures were taken by the State Authorities to frighten into submission,
or to dissolve by force the Vigilance Committee. The Governor issued a Proclamation declaring
the County of San Francisco in a state of insurrection, and gave orders to the Major General
of the District to make all necessary preparations to suppress the insurrection. General orders
were issued for all lovers of law and order to enlist, choose officers, and commence drilling.
Recruiting stations were appointed in different parts of the City, and a considerable number
of respectable citizens, and most of the gamblers, bullies and other notorious characters who
had not yet fallen into the hands of the Vigilance Committee, but must have had very reasonable
fears that they soon might, answered to the call. They mustered no such force however as led
to a public exhibition of their number or condition. General Sherman, being unable to obtain
from General Wood such arms as he deemed necessary for his purpose, soon resigned, and Volney
C. Howard was appointed in his place. In the meantime the Committee proceeded quietly in perfecting
their arrangements. The people, to the number of several thousand, offered themselves and were
added to the already formidable force. The demonstrations of citizens not professedly belonging
to, however in favor of the organization, were, at this and subsequent periods, very impressive.
An evening meeting was held in front of the Oriental Hotel, the number present at which was
variously estimated at from five to eight thousand. This great meeting was presided over by
Hon. Baillie Peyton, formerly a distinguished member of Congress, and then City Attorney. He
addressed the meeting, as did Judge Duer and other leading men. At the close of the meeting,
the immense assembly was called upon to say whether they approved and would support the Vigilance
Committee, and instantly such a thundering "Aye" went up as seemed sufficient to rend the sky.
When the otherwise minded were called, two "No's" were heard, faintly breaking the profound
silence. Several other meetings came to a like conclusion. Such occurrences, and they were
frequent, greatly strengthened the hands, and encouraged the hearts of the Executive Committee.
Their labors were various and unremitting. They issued notice to quit to numbers of persons
whom it was neither for the interest nor credit of the community longer to retain. By their
Police they were daily and nightly arresting disturbers of the public peace, thieves and desperate
criminals, whom they quietly deposited in their strong rooms to be dealt with according to
their deserts. To be prepared for any emergency their Head Quarters were made an armed camp.
Barriers six feet in height, made of sand bags, with cannon planted in the embrasures, extended
along the whole front of the building. Sentinels paced the roof day and night. Companies were
drilling at all hours at Head Quarters or in their Armories. These defenses were strengthened
from time to time; and others ingeniously contrived were placed in the interior; so that, at
length, in the opinion of an officer of large experience, a very large force of regular troops
would have been required to carry it by storm.

In the afternoon of Saturday, June 21st, the perfect quiet of the early part of the day was
broken up by a tempest of excitement of rare occurrence anywhere. Between three and four o'clock,
a Police Officer of the Vigilance Committee named Hopkins, being ordered with a party of men,
to arrest a man named Maloney, having ascertained that he was then in the office of Dr. Ashe,
Navy Agent, on Washington Street, entered the office alone, leaving the other officers in the
street. A number of persons were in the room beside Maloney, amongst them Judge Terry, one
of the three Judges of the Supreme Court of California. Hopkins was unable to make the arrest;
and retiring from the room, collected his men, and kept watch in the street. The party in the
room armed themselves and scattered into the street to make their way to the Armory of the
San Francisco Blues. While passing up Jackson Street, Hopkins attempted to arrest Maloney.
Terry opposed him with a double-barreled gun, which Hopkins attempted to or did, wrest from
him, when Terry immediately struck him on the neck with a bowie knife, inflicting a terrible
wound. Terry and his whole party then ran and placed themselves for safety in the Blues Armory.
Hopkins was immediately taken into the Pennsylvania Engine House. The news flew with lightning
speed over the City. The bell of the Vigilance Committee Rooms sounded; and instantly the streets
were swarming with members obedient at all times to its summons. As the sound struck his ear,
every man discontinued the work upon which he was employed. Draymen passing with loads, unharnessed
their horses, mounted and rode off; engines in the great foundries were stopped, and employers
and men started off on the run; builders, pressmen, shopmen, merchants, professional men, were
alike hurrying to the Committee Rooms. As they arrived, they took arms, were formed in companies,
and reported ready for duty. In a few minutes, a body of cavalry were thundering through the
streets and surrounding the block in which was the Blues Armory. Then up every street poured
companies of infantry at double-quick time, and took possession of every important point. So
quickly was this done that only some thirty men of the so called "law and order" party had
been able to assemble in the Armory. They were summoned to surrender, and alter some little
parley, concluded to do so. Terry, Ashe and Maloney were placed in carriages and conveyed to
the Committee Rooms. The other prisoners were then disarmed and they were kept in the Armory
until evening, when they likewise were marched to the Committee Rooms.

