Another cause arose to render my position at school still more intolerable. In consequence
of the loss of his position in the army, my father could no longer afford to pay my school-bills;
and was about, in consequence, to remove me from school; when the principal offered to retain
me without pay, although she disliked me, and did not hesitate to show it, any more than to
tell me, whenever I offended her, that she would never keep so ugly and naughty a child without
being paid for it, were it not for the sake of so noble a father.

These conditions and harsh judgments made me a philosopher. I heard myself called obstinate
and wilful, only because I believed myself in the right, and persisted in it. I felt that I
was not maliciously disposed towards any one, but wished well to all; and I offered my services
not only willingly, but cheerfully, wherever they could be of the least use; and saw them accepted,
and even demanded, by those who could not dispense with them, though they shunned and ridiculed
me the same as before. I felt that they only sought me when they needed me: this made me shrink
still more from their companionship; and, when my sister did not walk home from school with
me, I invariably went alone.

The idea that I might not wish to attach myself to playmates of this sort never occurred to
any one; but I was constantly reproached with having no friends among my schoolfellows, and
was told that no one could love so disagreeable and repelling a child. This was a severe blow
to my affectionate nature; but I bore it calmly, consoling myself with the thought that they
were wrong,--that they did not understand me,--and that the time would come, when they would
learn that a great, warm heart was concealed beneath the so-called repulsive exterior. But,
however soothing all this was for the time, a feeling of bitterness grew up within me. Neither the
UNDER-SECRETARY FOR WAR nor the FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY was at all happy in reply. They
resembled a couple of flying pilots who, having gone up to attack a hostile airship in the dark,
search in vain for an adequate landing-place. Heckled as to the exact status of Sir PERCY SCOTT,
for example, Mr. TENNANT could only say that he "is still in the position he was in." When
Mr. ELLIS GRIFFITH ventured the remark that a personal knowledge of flying would be a useful
qualification for officers advising the Government on this subject, Mr. BALFOUR was as painfully
surprised as if he himself had been called upon to navigate a. t.
b. d. in heavy weather.

In the absence of any definite sign of repentance the critics of the Government threatened
a division, which would have been awkward and might have been disastrous.

In similar circumstances Mr. GLADSTONE used to "send for the sledge-hammer"-- meaning Mr. ASQUITH.
The present PRIME MINISTER, when hard pressed, sends for BONAR. Thus summoned to ride the whirlwind
the COLONIAL SECRETARY executed a graceful volplane. In a few frank sentences he admitted that
the Government were very far from being satisfied with the Air Service, though it had achieved great
things. Further, they were willing to give another day for its discussion when they had got through
their financial business. With this confession and promise the critics were for the time being
appeased.

Thursday, February 17th.-- This being the first day for which Questions could be put down, Members
took full advantage of the opportunity, and propounded ninety-nine of them. Ministers displayed
less enthusiasm, and some of them were so late in arriving that the SPEAKER had to dodge about
all over the paper before the list was disposed of. Mr. GINNELL was, as usual, well to the fore
with silly rumours. There is perhaps a subtle connection between cattle-driving and hunting for
mare's nests.

The pleasantest feature of Question time was the tribute paid (with hint of more substantial
rewards to come after the War) to the gallantry and self-sacrifice of the officers and men
of our mercantile marine. This furnished an appropriate prelude to the subject of the ensuing
debate. Mr. PETO and others sought to press upon the Government the more economical use of our
merchant shipping. Here they were forcing an open door. Steps have already been taken to restrict
the imports of luxuries. Ministers are unanimous, I believe, in regarding "ginger," for instance,
as an article whose importation might profitably be curtailed.**********
ECONOMY AT THE CINEMA DE LUXE.***** HIGHLAND HOSPITALITY.

It happened in Scotland-- it couldn't have happened anywhere else.

I had been visiting the MacNeils.

They sympathised over my wound; they rallied round with tea and toast;
they provided Scotch whisky.

My one objection to the family was their supreme confidence in these
new-fledged lads of the Home Defence, whom I-- as a Subaltern of the
old school who had done my time at Sandhurst before the War-- scorned
with a dogged contempt which no degree of argument could kill.

It was when I reached the street that I realised that fervid fire
in the soul of Scotch hospitality-- a fire which brands it as unique
in our island story.

In my coat pocket reposed a bottle of Heather Dew. The convalescent home where I was being wooed
back to brisk health was situated along the sea-front. Chuckling at the MacNeils'efforts to modify
my views of our Home Defenders and their inefficiency, and brooding on the folks'kind hearts,
I paused to light a cigarette. The wind blew out the fluttering flame. It also set me sneezing,
for I had a bad cold in the head.

I struck another match. "Hey!" said a voice suddenly behind me. I swerved, choking back a sneeze. "Hey,
hey, hey!" some broad Doric tongue continued. A heavy hand came plump on my shoulder; a large Highland
face was pushed into mine; a kilt flapped round long bare shanks.

I sneezed again. "Got ye this time, lad!" announced the son of the North, who now appeared to be a brawny
lance-corporal. "Signallin'ye are. Oot to sea. Ah saw ye blinkin'wi'a
licht." I sneezed again. "I was'd!" I declared as well as the cold
in my head would allow. "It was a batch. I've dever sigdalled id by life.
You're wrog-- quite wrog!" He gripped me firmly by the arm. "Dinna
tell me!" he announced in conclusive tones.

"Ah ken better! Ye're the second spy Ah've
cotched. Come along, ma freend Fritz! Ye'll hae the job o'explainin'to
the Colonel whaur ye got that second-lootenant's uniform."

Hunching his rifle over his shoulder, he marched
me back the way I had come. "Where are you takig be to?" I enquired
thickly.

"Take be to your Cobbadig Officer at wudce.
I wad to egsplaid!" "Ah'll hae nane o'your clavers," he said shortly. "Ye're
for the gaird-room. Dinna tell ma ye're no a German wi'a tongue like
yon!"

Upon my return home, my father told me, that, having quitted school, I must now become a thorough
housekeeper, of whom he might be proud; as this was the only thing for which girls were intended
by nature. I cheerfully entered upon my new apprenticeship, and learned how to sweep, to scrub,
to wash, and to cook. This work answered very well as long as the novelty lasted; but, as soon
as this wore off, it became highly burdensome. Many a forenoon, when I was alone, instead of
sweeping and dusting, I passed the hours in reading books from my father's library, until it
grew so late, that I was afraid that my mother, who had commenced practice, would come home,
and scold me for not attending to my work; when I would hurry to get through, doing every thing
so badly, that I had to hear daily that I was good for nothing, and a nuisance in the world;
and that it was not at all surprising that I was not liked in school, for nobody could ever
like or be satisfied with me.

Meanwhile, my mother's practice gradually increased; and her generous and kindly nature won
the confidence of hundreds, who, wretchedly poor, found in her, not only a humane woman, but
a most skilful practitioner. The poor are good judges of professional qualifications. Without
the aid that money can buy, without the comforts that the wealthy hardly heed, and without
friends whose advice is prompted by intelligence, they must depend entirely upon the skill
and humanity of those to whom they apply. Their life and happiness are placed in the hands
of the physician, and they jealously regard the one to whom they intrust them. None but a good
practitioner can gain fame and praise in this class, which is thought so easily satisfied.
It is often said, "Oh! those people are poor, and will be glad of any assistance." Far from
it. There is no class so entirely dependent for their subsistence upon their strength and health;
these constitute their sole capital, their stock in trade: and, when sick, they anxiously seek
out the best physicians; for, if unskilfully attended, they may lose their all, their fortune,
and their happiness. 

***** "The air defence of London is now practically under the control
of the home forces, of which Lord French is Commander-in-Chief, and
Admiral Lord French is Commander-in Chief, and Admiral the gunnery
defences of London."-- Provincial Paper.

So now we're all right.***** "The spectacle of the snow-clad trees on the London Road, and in
other suburban districts, was pleasant to the eye, although it made walking a trifle difficult."--
Leicester Mail.

It is our habit to discourage the dangerous practice of tree-gazing
while in motion.***** ONCE UPON A TIME.

The Miracle.

Once upon a time there was one Herbert. The doctor being unwilling to pass him so that there
was no chance that he, in the words of the great joke, would "march
too," he had taken a situation as a waiter.

Englishmen (it is an axiom) do not make good waiters; nor was he
an exception.

But he was conscientious and painstaking, although clumsy and of
short memory.

Still, this was war-time, and Hans had gone to Germany and might
now be dead, and Fritz very properly was interned, and Josef had sought
Vienna once more, and Pasquale and Giuseppe had rejoined the Italian
flag, and the only foreigners left were a few nondescripts, very volubly,
indeed almost passionately, of Swiss nationality.

In fact, if this War has done nothing else it has at least established
the fact that the male population of Switzerland is far greater than
any one had supposed.

Gallant little Switzerland! So you see this was Herbert's chance, and the manager was glad to
get him; and Herbert, who, owing to the slump in games, had lost his job at an athletic sports factory
and had certain financial liabilities which he had long since abandoned
any hope of meeting, was glad to come.

Only, by infinite self-denial and sacrifice did he get together the necessary capital for his clothes and
the deposit demanded from waiters against breakages, theft and so forth. On his first day as
one in charge of three or four tables Herbert made some very serious mistakes. He was complained
of for slowness, he turned over a sauce-boat, he broke a glass, and he forgot to charge for the cigar
which the portly gentleman in the corner had taken after his lunch. And this cigar was a half-crown
Corona, for the portly gentleman either had not yet grasped the full meaning of War economy or was enjoying
one of those periodical orgies to which even rigid economist think themselves to be
entitled. Already Herbert had, like Alnaschar in the Eastern tale,
spent imagination far more than he could make all the week, and this
blow, with the manager's abuse to serve as salt in the wound, sent him
home in misery. Nor was it as if the portly gentleman was a regular
customer who could be reminded of the error (little as such reminding
is to the taste of regular customers); on the contrary, he had never
been known to visit the restaurant before.

 Let woman enter fully into business, with its
serious responsibilities and duties; let it be made as honorable and as profitable to her as
to men; let her have an equal opportunity for earning competence and comfort,--and we shall
need no other purification of society. Men are no more depraved than women; or, rather, the
total depravity of mankind is a lie.

From the time of my leaving school until I was fifteen years old, my life was passed, as I
have described, in doing housework, attending the sick with my mother, and reading a few books
of a scientific and literary character. At the end of this time, a letter came from an aunt
of my mother's, who was ill, and whose adopted daughter (who was my mother's sister) was also
an invalid, requesting me to visit and nurse them. Quite likely it could not be expected that the
country school should hold up a higher ideal, for here we have to do with the beginnings of
a system of instruction which had to make use of such material as it could find for teachers.
The same excuse does not suffice to explain the attitude taken by the bulk of schools maintained
by the northern whites for the Negroes. Their inability to comprehend the needs of the case
can only be ascribed to the conception of a Negro as a white man
with a black skin and a total failure to recognize the essential conditions
of race progress.

When the Roman monks penetrated the German woods the chief benefits they carried were not embalmed
in Latin grammars and the orations of Cicero, but were embodied in the knowledge of agriculture
and the arts which, adopted by the people, made possible later the German civilization. The
old rescue mission sought to yank the sinner out of the slough of despond, the social settlement seeks
to help him who has fallen in the contest of life or him to whom the opportunity has not been
offered, to climb, recognizing that morality and religion attend, not recede progress. The old
charity gave alms and the country was overrun with hordes of beggars; the new seeks to help a man
to help himself. A similar change must come in the efforts for the
Negro.

It has been sought to give him the fruits of civilization without its bases. It will immediately
be argued that this is wrong, that the chief educational work has been but primary and that little
so-called "higher education" has been given.

This is true, even to the extent that it is possible to find a town of 5,000 inhabitants one-half
Negroes, in which the city provides but one teacher for the black children and the balance
are trained in a school supported by the gifts of northern people. But, and this is the important
thing, the spirit of the education has been clear and definite and that the plan has not been carried
out has not been due to lack of faith in it. General Armstrong, thanks to his observations in
Hawaii, perceived that a different course was necessary. His mantle fell on H. F. Frissell
and Booker T. Washington, so Hampton and Tuskegee have been the chief factors in producing the
change which has been noted as coming. Now that industrial training is winning support it is
amusing to note the anxiety of other schools to show that they have
always believed in it.

The old aunt was extremely suspicious and avaricious. Eight weeks after my arrival, she submitted
to an operation. The operating surgeon found me so good an assistant, that he intrusted me
often with the succeeding dressing of the wound. For six weeks, I was the sole nurse of the
two; going from one room to the other both night and day, and attending to the household matters
beside, with no other assistant than a woman who came every morning for an hour or two to do
the rough work; while an uncle and a boy-cousin were continually troubling me with their torn
buttons, &c.

I learned in this time to be cheerful and light-hearted in all circumstances; going often into
the anteroom to have a healthy, hearty laugh. My surroundings were certainly any thing but
inspiring. I had the sole responsibility of the two sick women; the one annoying me with her
caprices, the other with her avarice. In one room, I heard fanciful forebodings; in the other,
reproaches for having used a teaspoonful too much sugar. I always had to carry the key of the
storeroom to the old aunt, in order that she might be sure that I could not go in and eat bread
when I chose. At the end of six weeks, she died; and I put on mourning for the only time in
my life, certainly not through grief.

Shortly after the death of my aunt, the attending physician introduced me to a disciple of
Hahnemann by the name of Arthur Lutze; who was, I think, a doctor of philosophy,--certainly
not of medicine. Besides being an infinitesimal homeopathist this man was a devotee to mesmerism. The
explanation is that in the two states mentioned the Negroes cultivate the rich bottom land
while the white farmers are found in the hills. The alluvial land easily raises twice the cotton,
and that of a better quality, commanding about a cent a pound more in the market. There may possibly
be similar conditions in other states; certainly in Alabama the black prairie tilled by the Negroes
is esteemed better than the other land. Since this was first written I have chanced upon the
report of the Geological Survey of Alabama for 1881 and 1882, in
which Mr. E. A. Smith sums up this same problem as follows: "(1)
That where the blacks are in excess of the whites, there are the originally
most fertile lands of the state.

The
natural advantages of the soils are, however, more than counterbalanced by
the bad system prevailing in such sections, viz.; large farms rented
out in patches to laborers who are too poor and too much in debt to
merchants to have any interest in keeping up the fertility of the
soil, or rather the ability to keep it up, with the natural consequence
of its rapid exhaustion, and a product per acre on these, the best
lands of the state, lower than that which is realized from the very
poorest."

(2) Where the two races are in nearly equal proportions, or where the whites are in only a slight
excess over the blacks, as is the case in all sections where the soils are of average fertility,
there is found the system of small farms, worked generally by the owners, a consequently better
cultivation, a more general use of commercial fertilizers, a correspondingly high product per
acre and a partial maintenance of the fertility of the soils. When my sisters went skating, I remained at home to study; when they went
to balls and theatres, I was thought the proper person to stay to watch the house. Having become
so much older, I was now of great assistance to my mother in her business. No one complained
any longer of my ugliness or my rudeness. I was always busy; and, when at liberty, always glad
to do what I could for others; and, though these years were full of hardships, I consider them
among the happiest of my life. I was as free as it was possible for any German girl to be.

