The inspector seemed to feel eased by the interval of silence, lit a thick cigarette of weak
tobacco, and offered one to Nekhludoff.

Nekhludoff refused.

"What I want is to see Maslova."

"Oh, yes, that can be managed. Now, then, what do you want?" he said, addressing a little girl
of five or six, who came into the room and walked up to her father with her head turned towards
Nekhludoff, and her eyes fixed on him.

"There, now, you'll fall down," said the inspector, smiling, as the little girl ran up to him,
and, not looking where she was going, caught her foot in a little rug.

"Well, then, if I may, I shall go."

"It's not very convenient to see Maslova to-day," said the inspector.

"How's that?"

"Well, you know, it's all your own fault," said the inspector, with a slight smile. "Prince,
give her no money into her hands. If you like, give it me. I will keep it for her. You see,
you gave her some money yesterday; she got some spirits (it's an evil we cannot manage to root
out), and to-day she is quite tipsy, even violent."

"Can this be true?"

"Oh, yes, it is. I have even been obliged to have recourse to severe measures, and to put her
into a separate cell. She is a quiet woman in an ordinary way. But please do not give her any
money. These people are so--" What had happened the day before came vividly back to Nekhludoff's
mind, and again he was seized with fear.

"And Doukhova, a political prisoner; might I see her?"

"Yes, if you like," said the inspector. He embraced the little girl, who was still looking
at Nekhludoff, got up, and, tenderly motioning her aside, went into the ante-room. Hardly had
he got into the overcoat which the maid helped him to put on, and before he had reached the
door, the distinct sounds of Clementi's roulades again began.

"She entered the Conservatoire, but there is such disorder there. She has a great gift," said
the inspector, as they went down the stairs. "She means to play at concerts."

The inspector and Nekhludoff arrived at the prison. The gates were instantly opened as they
appeared. The jailers, with their fingers lifted to their caps, followed the inspector with
their eyes. Four men, with their heads half shaved, who were carrying tubs filled with something,
cringed when they saw the inspector. One of them frowned angrily, his black eyes glaring.

"Of course a talent like that must be developed; it would not do to bury it, but in a small
lodging, you know, it is rather hard." The inspector went on with the conversation, taking
no notice of the prisoners.

"Who is it you want to see?"

"Doukhova."

"Oh, she's in the tower. You'll have to wait a little," he said.

"Might I not meanwhile see the prisoners Menshoff, mother and son, who are accused of incendiarism?"

"Oh, yes. Cell No. 21. Yes, they can be sent for."

"But might I not see Menshoff in his cell?"

"Oh, you'll find the waiting-room more pleasant."

"No. I should prefer the cell. It is more interesting."

"Well, you have found something to be interested in!"

Here the assistant, a smartly-dressed officer, entered the side door.

"Here, see the Prince into Menshoff's cell, No. 21," said the inspector to his assistant, "and
then take him to the office. And I'll go and call--What's her name? Vera Doukhova."

The inspector's assistant was young, with dyed moustaches, and diffusing the smell of eau-de-cologne.
"This way, please," he said to Nekhludoff, with a pleasant smile. "Our establishment interests
you?"

"Yes, it does interest me; and, besides, I look upon it as a duty to help a man who I heard
was confined here, though innocent."

The assistant shrugged his shoulders.

"Yes, that may happen," he said quietly, politely stepping aside to let the visitor enter,
the stinking corridor first. "But it also happens that they lie. Here we are."

The doors of the cells were open, and some of the prisoners were in the corridor. The assistant
nodded slightly to the jailers, and cast a side glance at the prisoners, who, keeping close
to the wall, crept back to their cells, or stood like soldiers, with their arms at their sides,
following the official with their eyes. After passing through one corridor, the assistant showed
Nekhludoff into another to the left, separated from the first by an iron door. This corridor
was darker, and smelt even worse than the first. The corridor had doors on both sides, with
little holes in them about an inch in diameter. There was only an old jailer, with an unpleasant
face, in this corridor.

"Where is Menshoff?" asked the inspector's assistant.

"The eighth cell to the left."

"And these? Are they occupied?" asked Nekhludoff.

"Yes, all but one."

CHAPTER LII.

NO. 21.

"May I look in?" asked Nekhludoff.

"Oh, certainly," answered the assistant, smiling, and turned to the jailer with some question.

Nekhludoff looked into one of the little holes, and saw a tall young man pacing up and down
the cell. When the man heard some one at the door he looked up with a frown, but continued
walking up and down.

Nekhludoff looked into another hole. His eye met another large eye looking out of the hole
at him, and he quickly stepped aside. In the third cell he saw a very small man asleep on the
bed, covered, head and all, with his prison cloak. In the fourth a broad-faced man was sitting
with his elbows on his knees and his head low down. At the sound of footsteps this man raised
his head and looked up. His face, especially his large eyes, bore the expression of hopeless
dejection. One could see that it did not even interest him to know who was looking into his
cell. Whoever it might be, he evidently hoped for nothing good from him. Nekhludoff was seized
with dread, and went to Menshoff's cell, No. 21, without stopping to look through any more
holes. The jailer unlocked the door and opened it. A young man, with long neck, well-developed
muscles, a small head, and kind, round eyes, stood by the bed, hastily putting on his cloak,
and looking at the newcomers with a frightened face. Nekhludoff was specially struck by the
kind, round eyes that were throwing frightened and inquiring glances in turns at him, at the
jailer, and at the assistant, and back again.

"Here's a gentleman wants to inquire into your affair."

"Thank you kindly."

"Yes, I was told about you," Nekhludoff said, going through the cell up to the dirty grated
window, "and I should like to hear all about it from yourself."

Menshoff also came up to the window, and at once started telling his story, at first looking
shyly at the inspector's assistant, but growing gradually bolder. When the assistant left the
cell and went into the corridor to give some order the man grew quite bold. The story was told
with the accent and in the manner common to a most ordinary good peasant lad. To hear it told
by a prisoner dressed in this degrading clothing, and inside a prison, seemed very strange
to Nekhludoff. Nekhludoff listened, and at the same time kept looking around him--at the low
bedstead with its straw mattress, the window and the dirty, damp wall, and the piteous face
and form of this unfortunate, disfigured peasant in his prison cloak and shoes, and he felt
sadder and sadder, and would have liked not to believe what this good-natured fellow was saying.
It seemed too dreadful to think that men could do such a thing as to take a man, dress him
in convict clothes, and put him in this horrible place without any reason only because he himself
had been injured. And yet the thought that this seemingly true story, told with such a good-natured
expression on the face, might be an invention and a lie was still more dreadful. This was the
story: The village public-house keeper had enticed the young fellow's wife. He tried to get
justice by all sorts of means. But everywhere the public-house keeper managed to bribe the
officials, and was acquitted. Once, he took his wife back by force, but she ran away next day.
Then he came to demand her back, but, though he saw her when he came in, the public-house keeper
told him she was not there, and ordered him to go away. He would not go, so the public-house
keeper and his servant beat him so that they drew blood. The next day a fire broke out in the
public-house, and the young man and his mother were accused of having set the house on fire.
He had not set it on fire, but was visiting a friend at the time.

"And it is true that you did not set it on fire?"

"It never entered my head to do it, sir. It must be my enemy that did it himself. They say
he had only just insured it. Then they said it was mother and I that did it, and that we had
threatened him. It is true I once did go for him, my heart couldn't stand it any longer."

"Can this be true?"

"God is my witness it is true. Oh, sir, be so good--" and Nekhludoff had some difficulty to
prevent him from bowing down to the ground. "You see I am perishing without any reason." His
face quivered and he turned up the sleeve of his cloak and began to cry, wiping the tears with
the sleeve of his dirty shirt.

"Are you ready?" asked the assistant.

"Yes. Well, cheer up. We will consult a good lawyer, and will do what we can," said Nekhludoff,
and went out. Menshoff stood close to the door, so that the jailer knocked him in shutting
it, and while the jailer was locking it he remained looking out through the little hole.

CHAPTER LIII.

VICTIMS OF GOVERNMENT.

Passing back along the broad corridor (it was dinner time, and the cell doors were open), among
the men dressed in their light yellow cloaks, short, wide trousers, and prison shoes, who were
looking eagerly at him, Nekhludoff felt a strange mixture of sympathy for them, and horror
and perplexity at the conduct of those who put and kept them here, and, besides, he felt, he
knew not why, ashamed of himself calmly examining it all.

In one of the corridors, some one ran, clattering with his shoes, in at the door of a cell.
Several men came out from here, and stood in Nekhludoff's way, bowing to him.

"Please, your honour (we don't know what to call you), get our affair settled somehow."

"I am not an official. I know nothing about it."

"Well, anyhow, you come from outside; tell somebody--one of the authorities, if need be," said
an indignant voice. "Show some pity on us, as a human being. Here we are suffering the second
month for nothing."

"What do you mean? Why?" said Nekhludoff.

"Why? We ourselves don't know why, but are sitting here the second month."

"Yes, it's quite true, and it is owing to an accident," said the inspector. "These people were
taken up because they had no passports, and ought to have been sent back to their native government;
but the prison there is burnt, and the local authorities have written, asking us not to send
them on. So we have sent all the other passportless people to their different governments,
but are keeping these."

"What! For no other reason than that?" Nekhludoff exclaimed, stopping at the door.

A crowd of about forty men, all dressed in prison clothes, surrounded him and the assistant,
and several began talking at once. The assistant stopped them.

"Let some one of you speak."

A tall, good-looking peasant, a stone-mason, of about fifty, stepped out from the rest. He
told Nekhludoff that all of them had been ordered back to their homes and were now being kept
in prison because they had no passports, yet they had passports which were only a fortnight
overdue. The same thing had happened every year; they had many times omitted to renew their
passports till they were overdue, and nobody had ever said anything; but this year they had
been taken up and were being kept in prison the second month, as if they were criminals.

"We are all masons, and belong to the same artel. We are told that the prison in our government
is burnt, but this is not our fault. Do help us."

Nekhludoff listened, but hardly understood what the good-looking old man was saying, because
his attention was riveted to a large, dark-grey, many-legged louse that was creeping along
the good-looking man's cheek.

"How's that? Is it possible for such a reason?" Nekhludoff said, turning to the assistant.

"Yes, they should have been sent off and taken back to their homes," calmly said the assistant,
"but they seem to have been forgotten or something."

Before the assistant had finished, a small, nervous man, also in prison dress, came out of
the crowd, and, strangely contorting his mouth, began to say that they were being ill-used
for nothing.

"Worse than dogs," he began.

"Now, now; not too much of this. Hold your tongue, or you know--"

"What do I know?" screamed the little man, desperately. "What is our crime?"

"Silence!" shouted the assistant, and the little man was silent.

"But what is the meaning of all this?" Nekhludoff thought to himself as he came out of the
cell, while a hundred eyes were fixed upon him through the openings of the cell doors and from
the prisoners that met him, making him feel as if he were running the gauntlet.

"Is it really possible that perfectly innocent people are kept here?" Nekhludoff uttered when
they left the corridor.

"What would you have us do? They lie so. To hear them talk they are all of them innocent,"
said the inspector's assistant. "But it does happen that some are really imprisoned for nothing."

"Well, these have done nothing."

"Yes, we must admit it. Still, the people are fearfully spoilt. There are such types--desperate
fellows, with whom one has to look sharp. To-day two of that sort had to be punished."

"Punished? How?"

"Flogged with a birch-rod, by order."

"But corporal punishment is abolished."

"Not for such as are deprived of their rights. They are still liable to it."

Nekhludoff thought of what he had seen the day before while waiting in the hall, and now understood
that the punishment was then being inflicted, and the mixed feeling of curiosity, depression,
perplexity, and moral nausea, that grew into physical sickness, took hold of him more strongly
than ever before.

Without listening to the inspector's assistant, or looking round, he hurriedly left the corridor,
and went to the office. The inspector was in the office, occupied with other business, and
had forgotten to send for Doukhova. He only remembered his promise to have her called when
Nekhludoff entered the office.

"Sit down, please. I'll send for her at once," said the inspector.

CHAPTER LIV.

PRISONERS AND FRIENDS.

The office consisted of two rooms. The first room, with a large, dilapidated stove and two
dirty windows, had a black measure for measuring the prisoners in one corner, and in another
corner hung a large image of Christ, as is usual in places where they torture people. In this
room stood several jailers. In the next room sat about twenty persons, men and women in groups
and in pairs, talking in low voices. There was a writing table by the window.

The inspector sat down by the table, and offered Nekhludoff a chair beside him. Nekhludoff
sat down, and looked at the people in the room.

The first who drew his attention was a young man with a pleasant face, dressed in a short jacket,
standing in front of a middle-aged woman with dark eyebrows, and he was eagerly telling her
something and gesticulating with his hands. Beside them sat an old man, with blue spectacles,
holding the hand of a young woman in prisoner's clothes, who was telling him something. A schoolboy,
with a fixed, frightened look on his face, was gazing at the old man. In one corner sat a pair
of lovers. She was quite young and pretty, and had short, fair hair, looked energetic, and
was elegantly dressed; he had fine features, wavy hair, and wore a rubber jacket. They sat
in their corner and seemed stupefied with love. Nearest to the table sat a grey-haired woman
dressed in black, evidently the mother of a young, consumptive-looking fellow, in the same
kind of jacket. Her head lay on his shoulder. She was trying to say something, but the tears
prevented her from speaking; she began several times, but had to stop. The young man held a
paper in his hand, and, apparently not knowing what to do, kept folding and pressing it with
an angry look on his face.

Beside them was a short-haired, stout, rosy girl, with very prominent eyes, dressed in a grey
dress and a cape; she sat beside the weeping mother, tenderly stroking her. Everything about
this girl was beautiful; her large, white hands, her short, wavy hair, her firm nose and lips,
but the chief charm of her face lay in her kind, truthful hazel eyes. The beautiful eyes turned
away from the mother for a moment when Nekhludoff came in, and met his look. But she turned
back at once and said something to the mother.

Not far from the lovers a dark, dishevelled man, with a gloomy face, sat angrily talking to
a beardless visitor, who looked as if he belonged to the Scoptsy sect.

At the very door stood a young man in a rubber jacket, who seemed more concerned about the
impression he produced on the onlooker than about what he was saying. Nekhludoff, sitting by
the inspector's side, looked round with strained curiosity. A little boy with closely-cropped
hair came up to him and addressed him in a thin little voice.

"And whom are you waiting for?"

Nekhludoff was surprised at the question, but looking at the boy, and seeing the serious little
face with its bright, attentive eyes fixed on him, answered him seriously that he was waiting
for a woman of his acquaintance.

"Is she, then, your sister?" the boy asked.

"No, not my sister," Nekhludoff answered in surprise.

"And with whom are you here?" he inquired of the boy.

"I? With mamma; she is a political one," he replied.

"Mary Pavlovna, take Kolia!" said the inspector, evidently considering Nekhludoff's conversation
with the boy illegal.

Mary Pavlovna, the beautiful girl who had attracted Nekhludoff's attention, rose tall and erect,
and with firm, almost manly steps, approached Nekhludoff and the boy.

"What is he asking you? Who you are?" she inquired with a slight smile, and looking straight
into his face with a trustful look in her kind, prominent eyes, and as simply as if there could
be no doubt whatever that she was and must be on sisterly terms with everybody.

"He likes to know everything," she said, looking at the boy with so sweet and kind a smile
that both the boy and Nekhludoff were obliged to smile back.

"He was asking me whom I have come to see."

"Mary Pavlovna, it is against the rules to speak to strangers. You know it is," said the inspector.

"All right, all right," she said, and went back to the consumptive lad's mother, holding Kolia's
little hand in her large, white one, while he continued gazing up into her face.

"Whose is this little boy?" Nekhludoff asked of the inspector.

"His mother is a political prisoner, and he was born in prison," said the inspector, in a pleased
tone, as if glad to point out how exceptional his establishment was.

"Is it possible?"

"Yes, and now he is going to Siberia with her."

"And that young girl?"

"I cannot answer your question," said the inspector, shrugging his shoulders. "Besides, here
is Doukhova."

CHAPTER LV.

VERA DOUKHOVA EXPLAINS.

Through a door, at the back of the room, entered, with a wriggling gait, the thin, yellow Vera
Doukhova, with her large, kind eyes.

"Thanks for having come," she said, pressing Nekhludoff's hand. "Do you remember me? Let us
sit down."

"I did not expect to see you like this."

"Oh, I am very happy. It is so delightful, so delightful, that I desire nothing better," said
Vera Doukhova, with the usual expression of fright in the large, kind, round eyes fixed on
Nekhludoff, and twisting the terribly thin, sinewy neck, surrounded by the shabby, crumpled,
dirty collar of her bodice. Nekhludoff asked her how she came to be in prison.

In answer she began relating all about her affairs with great animation. Her speech was intermingled
with a great many long words, such as propaganda, disorganisation, social groups, sections
and sub-sections, about which she seemed to think everybody knew, but which Nekhludoff had
never heard of.

She told him all the secrets of the Nardovolstvo, [literally, "People's Freedom," a revolutionary
movement] evidently convinced that he was pleased to hear them. Nekhludoff looked at her miserable
little neck, her thin, unkempt hair, and wondered why she had been doing all these strange
things, and why she was now telling all this to him. He pitied her, but not as he had pitied
Menshoff, the peasant, kept for no fault of his own in the stinking prison. She was pitiable
because of the confusion that filled her mind. It was clear that she considered herself a heroine,
and was ready to give her life for a cause, though she could hardly have explained what that
cause was and in what its success would lie.

The business that Vera Doukhova wanted to see Nekhludoff about was the following: A friend
of hers, who had not even belonged to their "sub-group," as she expressed it, had been arrested
with her about five months before, and imprisoned in the Petropavlovsky fortress because some
prohibited books and papers (which she had been asked to keep) had been found in her possession.
Vera Doukhova felt herself in some measure to blame for her friend's arrest, and implored Nekhludoff,
who had connections among influential people, to do all he could in order to set this friend free.

Besides this, Doukhova asked him to try and get permission for another friend of hers, Gourkevitch
(who was also imprisoned in the Petropavlovsky fortress), to see his parents, and to procure
some scientific books which he required for his studies. Nekhludoff promised to do what he
could when he went to Petersburg.

As to her own story, this is what she said: Having finished a course of midwifery, she became
connected with a group of adherents to the Nardovolstvo, and made up her mind to agitate in
the revolutionary movement. At first all went on smoothly. She wrote proclamations and occupied
herself with propaganda work in the factories; then, an important member having been arrested,
their papers were seized and all concerned were arrested. "I was also arrested, and shall be
exiled. But what does it matter? I feel perfectly happy." She concluded her story with a piteous
smile.

Nekhludoff made some inquiries concerning the girl with the prominent eyes. Vera Doukhova told
him that this girl was the daughter of a general, and had been long attached to the revolutionary
party, and was arrested because she had pleaded guilty to having shot a gendarme. She lived
in a house with some conspirators, where they had a secret printing press. One night, when
the police came to search this house, the occupiers resolved to defend themselves, put out
the light, and began destroying the things that might incriminate them. The police forced their
way in, and one of the conspirators fired, and mortally wounded a gendarme. When an inquiry
was instituted, this girl said that it was she who had fired, although she had never had a
revolver in her hands, and would not have hurt a fly. And she kept to it, and was now condemned
to penal servitude in Siberia.

"An altruistic, fine character," said Vera Doukhova, approvingly.

The third business that Vera Doukhova wanted to talk about concerned Maslova. She knew, as
everybody does know in prison, the story of Maslova's life and his connection with her, and
advised him to take steps to get her removed into the political prisoner's ward, or into the
hospital to help to nurse the sick, of which there were very many at that time, so that extra
nurses were needed.

Nekhludoff thanked her for the advice, and said he would try to act upon it.

CHAPTER LVI.

NEKHLUDOFF AND THE PRISONERS.

Their conversation was interrupted by the inspector, who said that the time was up, and the
prisoners and their friends must part. Nekhludoff took leave of Vera Doukhova and went to the
door, where he stopped to watch what was going on.

The inspector's order called forth only heightened animation among the prisoners in the room,
but no one seemed to think of going. Some rose and continued to talk standing, some went on
talking without rising. A few began crying and taking leave of each other. The mother and her
consumptive son seemed especially pathetic. The young fellow kept twisting his bit of paper
and his face seemed angry, so great were his efforts not to be infected by his mother's emotion.
The mother, hearing that it was time to part, put her head on his shoulder and sobbed and sniffed
aloud.

The girl with the prominent eyes--Nekhludoff could not help watching her--was standing opposite
the sobbing mother, and was saying something to her in a soothing tone. The old man with the
blue spectacles stood holding his daughter's hand and nodding in answer to what she said. The
young lovers rose, and, holding each other's hands, looked silently into one another's eyes.

"These are the only two who are merry," said a young man with a short coat who stood by Nekhludoff's
side, also looking at those who were about to part, and pointed to the lovers. Feeling Nekhludoff's
and the young man's eyes fixed on them, the lovers-- the young man with the rubber coat and
the pretty girl--stretched out their arms, and with their hands clasped in each other's, danced
round and round again. "To-night they are going to be married here in prison, and she will
follow him to Siberia," said the young man.

"What is he?"

"A convict, condemned to penal servitude. Let those two at least have a little joy, or else
it is too painful," the young man added, listening to the sobs of the consumptive lad's mother.

"Now, my good people! Please, please do not oblige me to have recourse to severe measures,"
the inspector said, repeating the same words several times over. "Do, please," he went on in
a weak, hesitating manner. "It is high time. What do you mean by it? This sort of thing is
quite impossible. I am now asking you for the last time," he repeated wearily, now putting
out his cigarette and then lighting another.

It was evident that, artful, old, and common as were the devices enabling men to do evil to
others without feeling responsible for it, the inspector could not but feel conscious that
he was one of those who were guilty of causing the sorrow which manifested itself in this room.
And it was apparent that this troubled him sorely. At length the prisoners and their visitors
began to go--the first out of the inner, the latter out of the outer door. The man with the
rubber jacket passed out among them, and the consumptive youth and the dishevelled man. Mary
Pavlovna went out with the boy born in prison.

The visitors went out too. The old man with the blue spectacles, stepping heavily, went out,
followed by Nekhludoff.

"Yes, a strange state of things this," said the talkative young man, as if continuing an interrupted
conversation, as he descended the stairs side by side with Nekhludoff. "Yet we have reason
to be grateful to the inspector who does not keep strictly to the rules, kind-hearted fellow.
If they can get a talk it does relieve their hearts a bit, after all!"

While talking to the young man, who introduced himself as Medinzeff, Nekhludoff reached the
hall. There the inspector came up to them with weary step.

"If you wish to see Maslova," he said, apparently desiring to be polite to Nekhludoff, "please
come to-morrow."

"Very well," answered Nekhludoff, and hurried away, experiencing more than ever that sensation
of moral nausea which he always felt on entering the prison.

The sufferings of the evidently innocent Menshoff seemed terrible, and not so much his physical
suffering as the perplexity, the distrust in the good and in God which he must feel, seeing
the cruelty of the people who tormented him without any reason.

Terrible were the disgrace and sufferings cast on these hundreds of guiltless people simply
because something was not written on paper as it should have been. Terrible were the brutalised
jailers, whose occupation is to torment their brothers, and who were certain that they were
fulfilling an important and useful duty; but most terrible of all seemed this sickly, elderly,
kind-hearted inspector, who was obliged to part mother and son, father and daughter, who were
just the same sort of people as he and his own children.

"What is it all for?" Nekhludoff asked himself, and could not find an answer.

CHAPTER LVII.

THE VICE-GOVERNOR'S "AT-HOME".

The next day Nekhludoff went to see the advocate, and spoke to him about the Menshoffs' case,
begging him to undertake their defence. The advocate promised to look into the case, and if
it turned out to be as Nekhludoff said he would in all probability undertake the defence free
of charge. Then Nekhludoff told him of the 130 men who were kept in prison owing to a mistake.
"On whom did it depend? Whose fault was it?"

The advocate was silent for a moment, evidently anxious to give a correct reply.

"Whose fault is it? No one's," he said, decidedly. "Ask the Procureur, he'll say it is the
Governor's; ask the Governor, he'll say it is the Procureur's fault. No one is in fault."

"I am just going to see the Vice-Governor. I shall tell him."

"Oh, that's quite useless," said the advocate, with a smile. "He is such a--he is not a relation
or friend of yours?--such a blockhead, if I may say so, and yet a crafty animal at the same time."

Nekhludoff remembered what Maslennikoff had said about the advocate, and did not answer, but
took leave and went on to Maslennikoff's. He had to ask Maslennikoff two things: about Maslova's
removal to the prison hospital, and about the 130 passportless men innocently imprisoned. Though
it was very hard to petition a man whom he did not respect, and by whose orders men were flogged,
yet it was the only means of gaining his end, and he had to go through with it.

As he drove up to Maslennikoff's house Nekhludoff saw a number of different carriages by the
front door, and remembered that it was Maslennikoff's wife's "at-home" day, to which he had
been invited. At the moment Nekhludoff drove up there was a carriage in front of the door,
and a footman in livery, with a cockade in his hat, was helping a lady down the doorstep. She
was holding up her train, and showing her thin ankles, black stockings, and slippered feet.
Among the carriages was a closed landau, which he knew to be the Korchagins'.

The grey-haired, red-checked coachman took off his hat and bowed in a respectful yet friendly
manner to Nekhludoff, as to a gentleman he knew well. Nekhludoff had not had time to inquire
for Maslennikoff, when the latter appeared on the carpeted stairs, accompanying a very important
guest not only to the first landing but to the bottom of the stairs. This very important visitor,
a military man, was speaking in French about a lottery for the benefit of children's homes
that were to be founded in the city, and expressed the opinion that this was a good occupation
for the ladies. "It amuses them, and the money comes."

"Qu'elles s'amusent et que le bon dieu les benisse. M. Nekhludoff! How d'you do? How is it
one never sees you?" he greeted Nekhludoff. "Allez presenter vos devoirs a Madame. And the
Korchagins are here et Nadine Bukshevden. Toutes les jolies femmes de la ville," said the important
guest, slightly raising his uniformed shoulders as he presented them to his own richly liveried
servant to have his military overcoat put on. "Au revoir, mon cher." And he pressed Maslennikoff's
hand.

"Now, come up; I am so glad," said Maslennikoff, grasping Nekhludoff's hand. In spite of his
corpulency Maslennikoff hurried quickly up the stairs. He was in particularly good spirits,
owing to the attention paid him by the important personage. Every such attention gave him the
same sense of delight as is felt by an affectionate dog when its master pats it, strokes it,
or scratches its ears. It wags its tail, cringes, jumps about, presses its ears down, and madly
rushes about in a circle. Maslennikoff was ready to do the same. He did not notice the serious
expression on Nekhludoff's face, paid no heed to his words, but pulled him irresistibly towards
the drawing-room, so that it was impossible for Nekhludoff not to follow. "Business after wards.
I shall do whatever you want," said Meslennikoff, as he drew Nekhludoff through the dancing
hall. "Announce Prince Nekhludoff," he said to a footman, without stopping on his way. The
footman started off at a trot and passed them.

"Vous n'avez qu' a ordonner. But you must see my wife. As it is, I got it for letting you go
without seeing her last time."

By the time they reached the drawing-room the footman had already announced Nekhludoff, and
from between the bonnets and heads that surrounded it the smiling face of Anna Ignatievna,
the Vice-Governor's wife, beamed on Nekhludoff. At the other end of the drawing-room several
ladies were seated round the tea-table, and some military men and some civilians stood near
them. The clatter of male and female voices went on unceasingly.

"Enfin! you seem to have quite forgotten us. How have we offended?" With these words, intended
to convey an idea of intimacy which had never existed between herself and Nekhludoff, Anna
Ignatievna greeted the newcomer.

"You are acquainted?--Madam Tilyaevsky, M. Chernoff. Sit down a bit nearer. Missy vene donc
a notre table on vous apportera votre the . . . And you," she said, having evidently forgotten
his name, to an officer who was talking to Missy, "do come here. A cup of tea, Prince?"

"I shall never, never agree with you. It's quite simple; she did not love," a woman's voice
was heard saying.

"But she loved tarts."

"Oh, your eternal silly jokes!" put in, laughingly, another lady resplendent in silks, gold,
and jewels.

"C'est excellent these little biscuits, and so light. I think I'll take another."

"Well, are you moving soon?"

"Yes, this is our last day. That's why we have come. Yes, it must be lovely in the country;
we are having a delightful spring."

Missy, with her hat on, in a dark-striped dress of some kind that fitted her like a skin, was
looking very handsome. She blushed when she saw Nekhludoff.

"And I thought you had left," she said to him.

"I am on the point of leaving. Business is keeping me in town, and it is on business I have
come here."

"Won't you come to see mamma? She would like to see you," she said, and knowing that she was
saying what was not true, and that he knew it also, she blushed still more.

"I fear I shall scarcely have time," Nekhludoff said gloomily, trying to appear as if he had
not noticed her blush. Missy frowned angrily, shrugged her shoulders, and turned towards an
elegant officer, who grasped the empty cup she was holding, and knocking his sword against
the chairs, manfully carried the cup across to another table.

"You must contribute towards the Home fund."

"I am not refusing, but only wish to keep my bounty fresh for the lottery. There I shall let
it appear in all its glory."

"Well, look out for yourself," said a voice, followed by an evidently feigned laugh.

Anna Ignatievna was in raptures; her "at-home" had turned out a brilliant success. "Micky tells
me you are busying yourself with prison work. I can understand you so well," she said to Nekhludoff.
"Micky (she meant her fat husband, Maslennikoff) may have other defects, but you know how kind-hearted
he is. All these miserable prisoners are his children. He does not regard them in any other
light. Il est d'une bonte---" and she stopped, finding no words to do justice to this bonte
of his, and quickly turned to a shrivelled old woman with bows of lilac ribbon all over, who
came in just then.

Having said as much as was absolutely necessary, and with as little meaning as conventionality
required, Nekhludoff rose and went up to Meslennikoff. "Can you give me a few minutes' hearing,
please?"

"Oh, yes. Well, what is it?"

"Let us come in here."

They entered a small Japanese sitting-room, and sat down by the window.

CHAPTER LVIII.

THE VICE-GOVERNOR SUSPICIOUS.

"Well? Je suis a vous. Will you smoke? But wait a bit; we must be careful and not make a mess
here," said Maslennikoff, and brought an ashpan. "Well?"

"There are two matters I wish to ask you about."

"Dear me!"

An expression of gloom and dejection came over Maslennikoff's countenance, and every trace
of the excitement, like that of the dog's whom its master has scratched behind the cars, vanished
completely. The sound of voices reached them from the drawing- room. A woman's voice was heard,
saying, "Jamais je ne croirais," and a man's voice from the other side relating something in
which the names of la Comtesse Voronzoff and Victor Apraksine kept recurring. A hum of voices,
mixed with laughter, came from another side. Maslennikoff tried to listen to what was going
on in the drawing-room and to what Nekhludoff was saying at the same time.

"I am again come about that same woman," said Nekhludoff.

"Oh, yes; I know. The one innocently condemned."

"I would like to ask that she should be appointed to serve in the prison hospital. I have been
told that this could be arranged."

Maslennikoff compressed his lips and meditated. "That will be scarcely possible," he said.
"However, I shall see what can be done, and shall wire you an answer tomorrow."

"I have been told that there were many sick, and help was needed."

"All right, all right. I shall let you know in any case."

"Please do," said Nekhludoff.

The sound of a general and even a natural laugh came from the drawing-room.

"That's all that Victor. He is wonderfully sharp when he is in the right vein," said Maslennikoff.

"The next thing I wanted to tell you," said Nekhludoff, "is that 130 persons are imprisoned
only because their passports are overdue. They have been kept here a month."

And he related the circumstances of the case.

"How have you come to know of this?" said Maslennikoff, looking uneasy and dissatisfied.

"I went to see a prisoner, and these men came and surrounded me in the corridor, and asked . . ."

"What prisoner did you go to see?"

"A peasant who is kept in prison, though innocent. I have put his case into the hands of a
lawyer. But that is not the point."

"Is it possible that people who have done no wrong are imprisoned only because their passports
are overdue? And . . ."

"That's the Procureur's business," Maslennikoff interrupted, angrily. "There, now, you see
what it is you call a prompt and just form of trial. It is the business of the Public Prosecutor
to visit the prison and to find out if the prisoners are kept there lawfully. But that set
play cards; that's all they do."

"Am I to understand that you can do nothing?" Nekhludoff said, despondently, remembering that
the advocate had foretold that the Governor would put the blame on the Procureur.

"Oh, yes, I can. I shall see about it at once."

"So much the worse for her. C'est un souffre douleur," came the voice of a woman, evidently
indifferent to what she was saying, from the drawing-room.

"So much the better. I shall take it also," a man's voice was heard to say from the other side,
followed by the playful laughter of a woman, who was apparently trying to prevent the man from
taking something away from her.

"No, no; not on any account," the woman's voice said.

"All right, then. I shall do all this," Maslennikoff repeated, and put out the cigarette he
held in his white, turquoise-ringed hand. "And now let us join the ladies."

"Wait a moment," Nekhludoff said, stopping at the door of the drawing-room. "I was told that
some men had received corporal punishment in the prison yesterday. Is this true?"

Maslennikoff blushed.

"Oh, that's what you are after? No, mon cher, decidedly it won't do to let you in there; you
want to get at everything. Come, come; Anna is calling us," he said, catching Nekhludoff by
the arm, and again becoming as excited as after the attention paid him by the important person,
only now his excitement was not joyful, but anxious.

Nekhludoff pulled his arm away, and without taking leave of any one and without saying a word,
he passed through the drawing-room with a dejected look, went down into the hall, past the
footman, who sprang towards him, and out at the street door.

"What is the matter with him? What have you done to him?" asked Anna of her husband.

"This is a la Francaise," remarked some one.

"A la Francaise, indeed--it is a la Zoulou."

"Oh, but he's always been like that."

Some one rose, some one came in, and the clatter went on its course. The company used this
episode with Nekhludoff as a convenient topic of conversation for the rest of the "at-home."

On the day following his visit to Maslennikoff, Nekhludoff received a letter from him, written
in a fine, firm hand, on thick, glazed paper, with a coat-of-arms, and sealed with sealing-wax.
Maslennikoff said that he had written to the doctor concerning Maslova's removal to the hospital,
and hoped Nekhludoff's wish would receive attention. The letter was signed, "Your affectionate
elder comrade," and the signature ended with a large, firm, and artistic flourish. "Fool!"
Nekhludoff could not refrain from saying, especially because in the word "comrade" he felt
Maslennikoff's condescension towards him, i.e., while Maslennikoff was filling this position,
morally most dirty and shameful, he still thought himself a very important man, and wished,
if not exactly to flatter Nekhludoff, at least to show that he was not too proud to call him
comrade.

CHAPTER LIX.

NEKHLUDOFF'S THIRD INTERVIEW WITH MASLOVA IN PRISON.

One of the most widespread superstitions is that every man has his own special, definite qualities;
that a man is kind, cruel, wise, stupid, energetic, apathetic, etc. Men are not like that.
We may say of a man that he is more often kind than cruel, oftener wise than stupid, oftener
energetic than apathetic, or the reverse; but it would be false to say of one man that he is
kind and wise, of another that he is wicked and foolish. And yet we always classify mankind
in this way. And this is untrue. Men are like rivers: the water is the same in each, and alike
in all; but every river is narrow here, is more rapid there, here slower, there broader, now
clear, now cold, now dull, now warm. It is the same with men. Every man carries in himself
the germs of every human quality, and sometimes one manifests itself, sometimes another, and
the man often becomes unlike himself, while still remaining the same man, In some people these
changes are very rapid, and Nekhludoff was such a man. These changes in him were due to physical
and to spiritual causes. At this time he experienced such a change.

That feeling of triumph and joy at the renewal of life which he had experienced after the trial
and after the first interview with Katusha, vanished completely, and after the last interview
fear and revulsion took the place of that joy. He was determined not to leave her, and not
to change his decision of marrying her, if she wished it; but it seemed very hard, and made
him suffer.

On the day after his visit to Maslennikoff, he again went to the prison to see her.

The inspector allowed him to speak to her, only not in the advocate's room nor in the office,
but in the women's visiting-room. In spite of his kindness, the inspector was more reserved
with Nekhludoff than hitherto.

An order for greater caution had apparently been sent, as a result of his conversation with
Meslennikoff.

"You may see her," the inspector said; "but please remember what I said as regards money. And
as to her removal to the hospital, that his excellency wrote to me about, it can be done; the
doctor would agree. Only she herself does not wish it. She says, 'Much need have I to carry
out the slops for the scurvy beggars.' You don't know what these people are, Prince," he added.

Nekhludoff did not reply, but asked to have the interview. The inspector called a jailer, whom
Nekhludoff followed into the women's visiting-room, where there was no one but Maslova waiting.
She came from behind the grating, quiet and timid, close up to him, and said, without looking
at him:

"Forgive me, Dmitri Ivanovitch, I spoke hastily the day before yesterday."

"It is not for me to forgive you," Nekhludoff began.

"But all the same, you must leave me," she interrupted, and in the terribly squinting eyes
with which she looked at him Nekhludoff read the former strained, angry expression.

"Why should I leave you?"

"So."

"But why so?"

She again looked up, as it seemed to him, with the same angry look.

"Well, then, thus it is," she said. "You must leave me. It is true what I am saying. I cannot.
You just give it up altogether." Her lips trembled and she was silent for a moment. "It is
true. I'd rather hang myself."

Nekhludoff felt that in this refusal there was hatred and unforgiving resentment, but there
was also something besides, something good. This confirmation of the refusal in cold blood
at once quenched all the doubts in Nekhludoff's bosom, and brought back the serious, triumphant
emotion he had felt in relation to Katusha.

"Katusha, what I have said I will again repeat," he uttered, very seriously. "I ask you to
marry me. If you do not wish it, and for as long as you do not wish it, I shall only continue
to follow you, and shall go where you are taken."

"That is your business. I shall not say anything more," she answered, and her lips began to
tremble again.

He, too, was silent, feeling unable to speak.

"I shall now go to the country, and then to Petersburg," he said, when he was quieter again.
"I shall do my utmost to get your--- our case, I mean, reconsidered, and by the help of God
the sentence may be revoked."

"And if it is not revoked, never mind. I have deserved it, if not in this case, in other ways,"
she said, and he saw how difficult it was for her to keep down her tears.

"Well, have you seen Menshoff?" she suddenly asked, to hide her emotion. "It's true they are
innocent, isn't it?"

"Yes, I think so."

"Such a splendid old woman," she said.

There was another pause.

"Well, and as to the hospital?" she suddenly said, and looking at him with her squinting eyes.
"If you like, I will go, and I shall not drink any spirits, either."

Nekhludoff looked into her eyes. They were smiling.

"Yes, yes, she is quite a different being," Nekhludoff thought. After all his former doubts,
he now felt something he had never before experienced--the certainty that love is invincible.

When Maslova returned to her noisome cell after this interview, she took off her cloak and
sat down in her place on the shelf bedstead with her hands folded on her lap. In the cell were
only the consumptive woman, the Vladimir woman with her baby, Menshoff's old mother, and the
watchman's wife. The deacon's daughter had the day before been declared mentally diseased and
removed to the hospital. The rest of the women were away, washing clothes. The old woman was
asleep, the cell door stood open, and the watchman's children were in the corridor outside.
The Vladimir woman, with her baby in her arms, and the watchman's wife, with the stocking she
was knitting with deft fingers, came up to Maslova. "Well, have you had a chat?" they asked.
Maslova sat silent on the high bedstead, swinging her legs, which did not reach to the floor.

"What's the good of snivelling?" said the watchman's wife. "The chief thing's not to go down
into the dumps. Eh, Katusha? Now, then!" and she went on, quickly moving her fingers.

Maslova did not answer.

"And our women have all gone to wash," said the Vladimir woman. "I heard them say much has
been given in alms to-day. Quite a lot has been brought."

"Finashka," called out the watchman's wife, "where's the little imp gone to?"

She took a knitting needle, stuck it through both the ball and the stocking, and went out into
the corridor.

At this moment the sound of women's voices was heard from the corridor, and the inmates of
the cell entered, with their prison shoes, but no stockings on their feet. Each was carrying
a roll, some even two. Theodosia came at once up to Maslova.

"What's the matter; is anything wrong?" Theodosia asked, looking lovingly at Maslova with her
clear, blue eyes. "This is for our tea," and she put the rolls on a shelf.

"Why, surely he has not changed his mind about marrying?" asked Korableva.

"No, he has not, but I don't wish to," said Maslova, "and so I told him."

"More fool you!" muttered Korableva in her deep tones.

"If one's not to live together, what's the use of marrying?" said Theodosia.

"There's your husband--he's going with you," said the watchman's wife.

"Well, of course, we're married," said Theodosia. "But why should he go through the ceremony
if he is not to live with her?"

"Why, indeed! Don't be a fool! You know if he marries her she'll roll in wealth," said Korableva.

"He says, 'Wherever they take you, I'll follow,'" said Maslova. "If he does, it's well; if
he does not, well also. I am not going to ask him to. Now he is going to try and arrange the
matter in Petersburg. He is related to all the Ministers there. But, all the same, I have no
need of him," she continued.

"Of course not," suddenly agreed Korableva, evidently thinking about something else as she
sat examining her bag. "Well, shall we have a drop?"

"You have some," replied Maslova. "I won't."

END OF BOOK I.

BOOK II.

CHAPTER I.

PROPERTY IN LAND.

It was possible for Maslova's case to come before the Senate in a fortnight, at which time
Nekhludoff meant to go to Petersburg, and, if need be, to appeal to the Emperor (as the advocate
who had drawn up the petition advised) should the appeal be disregarded (and, according to
the advocate, it was best to be prepared for that, since the causes for appeal were so slight).
The party of convicts, among whom was Maslova, would very likely leave in the beginning of
June. In order to be able to follow her to Siberia, as Nekhludoff was firmly resolved to do,
he was now obliged to visit his estates, and settle matters there. Nekhludoff first went to
the nearest, Kousminski, a large estate that lay in the black earth district, and from which
he derived the greatest part of his income.

He had lived on that estate in his childhood and youth, and had been there twice since, and
once, at his mother's request, he had taken a German steward there, and had with him verified
the accounts. The state of things there and the peasants' relations to the management, i.e.,
the landlord, had therefore been long known to him. The relations of the peasants to the administration
were those of utter dependence on that management. Nekhludoff knew all this when still a university
student, he had confessed and preached Henry Georgeism, and, on the basis of that teaching,
had given the land inherited from his father to the peasants. It is true that after entering
the army, when he got into the habit of spending 20,000 roubles a year, those former occupations
ceased to be regarded as a duty, and were forgotten, and he not only left off asking himself
where the money his mother allowed him came from, but even avoided thinking about it. But his
mother's death, the coming into the property, and the necessity of managing it, again raised
the question as to what his position in reference to private property in land was. A month
before Nekhludoff would have answered that he had not the strength to alter the existing order
of things; that it was not he who was administering the estate; and would one way or another
have eased his conscience, continuing to live far from his estates, and having the money sent
him. But now he decided that he could not leave things to go on as they were, but would have
to alter them in a way unprofitable to himself, even though he had all these complicated and
difficult relations with the prison world which made money necessary, as well as a probable
journey to Siberia before him. Therefore he decided not to farm the land, but to let it to
the peasants at a low rent, to enable them to cultivate it without depending on a landlord.
More than once, when comparing the position of a landowner with that of an owner of serfs,
Nekhludoff had compared the renting of land to the peasants instead of cultivating it with
hired labour, to the old system by which serf proprietors used to exact a money payment from
their serfs in place of labour. It was not a solution of the problem, and yet a step towards
the solution; it was a movement towards a less rude form of slavery. And it was in this way
he meant to act.

Nekhludoff reached Kousminski about noon. Trying to simplify his life in every way, he did
not telegraph, but hired a cart and pair at the station. The driver was a young fellow in a
nankeen coat, with a belt below his long waist. He was glad to talk to the gentleman, especially
because while they were talking his broken-winded white horse and the emaciated spavined one
could go at a foot-pace, which they always liked to do.

The driver spoke about the steward at Kousminski without knowing that he was driving "the master."
Nekhludoff had purposely not told him who he was.

"That ostentatious German," said the driver (who had been to town and read novels) as he sat
sideways on the box, passing his hand from the top to the bottom of his long whip, and trying
to show off his accomplishments--"that ostentatious German has procured three light bays, and
when he drives out with his lady---oh, my! At Christmas he had a Christmas-tree in the big
house. I drove some of the visitors there. It had 'lectric lights; you could not see the like
of it in the whole of the government. What's it to him, he has cribbed a heap of money. I heard
say he has bought an estate."

Nekhludoff had imagined that he was quite indifferent to the way the steward managed his estate,
and what advantages the steward derived from it. The words of the long-waisted driver, however,
were not pleasant to hear.

A dark cloud now and then covered the sun; the larks were soaring above the fields of winter
corn; the forests were already covered with fresh young green; the meadows speckled with grazing
cattle and horses. The fields were being ploughed, and Nekhludoff enjoyed the lovely day. But
every now and then he had an unpleasant feeling, and, when he asked himself what it was caused
by, he remembered what the driver had told him about the way the German was managing Kousminski.
When he got to his estate and set to work this unpleasant feeling vanished.

Looking over the books in the office, and a talk with the foreman, who naively pointed out
the advantages to be derived from the facts that the peasants had very little land of their
own and that it lay in the midst of the landlord's fields, made Nekhludoff more than ever determined
to leave off farming and to let his land to the peasants.

From the office books and his talk with the foreman, Nekhludoff found that two-thirds of the
best of the cultivated land was still being tilled with improved machinery by labourers receiving
fixed wages, while the other third was tilled by the peasants at the rate of five roubles per
desiatin [about two and three-quarter acres]. So that the peasants had to plough each desiatin
three times, harrow it three times, sow and mow the corn, make it into sheaves, and deliver
it on the threshing ground for five roubles, while the same amount of work done by wage labour
came to at least 10 roubles. Everything the peasants got from the office they paid for in labour
at a very high price. They paid in labour for the use of the meadows, for wood, for potato-stalks,
and were nearly all of them in debt to the office. Thus, for the land that lay beyond the cultivated
fields, which the peasants hired, four times the price that its value would bring in if invested
at five per cent was taken from the peasants.

Nekhludoff had known all this before, but he now saw it in a new light, and wondered how he
and others in his position could help seeing how abnormal such conditions are. The steward's
arguments that if the land were let to the peasants the agricultural implements would fetch
next to nothing, as it would be impossible to get even a quarter of their value for them, and
that the peasants would spoil the land, and how great a loser Nekhludoff would be, only strengthened
Nekhludoff in the opinion that he was doing a good action in letting the land to the peasants
and thus depriving himself of a large part of his income. He decided to settle this business
now, at once, while he was there. The reaping and selling of the corn he left for the steward
to manage in due season, and also the selling of the agricultural implements and useless buildings.
But he asked his steward to call the peasants of the three neighbouring villages that lay in
the midst of his estate (Kousminski) to a meeting, at which he would tell them of his intentions
and arrange about the price at which they were to rent the land.

With the pleasant sense of the firmness he had shown in the face of the steward's arguments,
and his readiness to make a sacrifice, Nekhludoff left the office, thinking over the business
before him, and strolled round the house, through the neglected flower-garden--this year the
flowers were planted in front of the steward's house--over the tennis ground, now overgrown
with dandelions, and along the lime-tree walk, where he used to smoke his cigar, and where
he had flirted with the pretty Kirimova, his mother's visitor. Having briefly prepared in his
mind the speech he was going to make to the peasants, he again went in to the steward, and,
after tea, having once more arranged his thoughts, he went into the room prepared for him in
the big house, which used to be a spare bedroom.

In this clean little room, with pictures of Venice on the walls, and a mirror between the two
windows, there stood a clean bed with a spring mattress, and by the side of it a small table,
with a decanter of water, matches, and an extinguisher. On a table by the looking-glass lay
his open portmanteau, with his dressing-case and some books in it; a Russian book, The Investigation
of the Laws of Criminality, and a German and an English book on the same subject, which he
meant to read while travelling in the country. But it was too late to begin to-day, and he
began preparing to go to bed.

An old-fashioned inlaid mahogany arm-chair stood in the corner of the room, and this chair,
which Nekhludoff remembered standing in his mother's bedroom, suddenly raised a perfectly unexpected
sensation in his soul. He was suddenly filled with regret at the thought of the house that
would tumble to ruin, and the garden that would run wild, and the forest that would be cut
down, and all these farmyards, stables, sheds, machines, horses, cows which he knew had cost
so much effort, though not to himself, to acquire and to keep. It had seemed easy to give up
all this, but now it was hard, not only to give this, but even to let the land and lose half
his income. And at once a consideration, which proved that it was unreasonable to let the land
to the peasants, and thus to destroy his property, came to his service. "I must not hold property
in land. If I possess no property in land, I cannot keep up the house and farm. And, besides,
I am going to Siberia, and shall not need either the house or the estate," said one voice.
"All this is so," said another voice, "but you are not going to spend all your life in Siberia.
You may marry, and have children, and must hand the estate on to them in as good a condition
as you received it. There is a duty to the land, too. To give up, to destroy everything is
very easy; to acquire it very difficult. Above all, you must consider your future life, and
what you will do with yourself, and you must dispose of your property accordingly. And are
you really firm in your resolve? And then, are you really acting according to your conscience,
or are you acting in order to be admired of men?" Nekhludoff asked himself all this, and had
to acknowledge that he was influenced by the thought of what people would say about him. And
the more he thought about it the more questions arose, and the more unsolvable they seemed.

In hopes of ridding himself of these thoughts by falling asleep, and solving them in the morning
when his head would be fresh, he lay down on his clean bed. But it was long before he could
sleep. Together with the fresh air and the moonlight, the croaking of the frogs entered the
room, mingling with the trills of a couple of nightingales in the park and one close to the
window in a bush of lilacs in bloom. Listening to the nightingales and the frogs, Nekhludoff
remembered the inspector's daughter, and her music, and the inspector; that reminded him of
Maslova, and how her lips trembled, like the croaking of the frogs, when she said, "You must
just leave it." Then the German steward began going down to the frogs, and had to be held back,
but he not only went down but turned into Maslova, who began reproaching Nekhludoff, saying,
"You are a prince, and I am a convict." "No, I must not give in," thought Nekhludoff, waking
up, and again asking himself, "Is what I am doing right? I do not know, and no matter, no matter,
I must only fall asleep now." And he began himself to descend where he had seen the inspector
and Maslova climbing down to, and there it all ended.

CHAPTER II.

EFFORTS AT LAND RESTORATION.

The next day Nekhludoff awoke at nine o'clock. The young office clerk who attended on "the
master" brought him his boots, shining as they had never shone before, and some cold, beautifully
clear spring water, and informed him that the peasants were already assembling.

Nekhludoff jumped out of bed, and collected his thoughts. Not a trace of yesterday's regret
at giving up and thus destroying his property remained now. He remembered this feeling of regret
with surprise; he was now looking forward with joy to the task before him, and could not help
being proud of it. He could see from the window the old tennis ground, overgrown with dandelions,
on which the peasants were beginning to assemble. The frogs had not croaked in vain the night
before; the day was dull. There was no wind; a soft warm rain had begun falling in the morning,
and hung in drops on leaves, twigs, and grass. Besides the smell of the fresh vegetation, the
smell of damp earth, asking for more rain, entered in at the window. While dressing, Nekhludoff
several times looked out at the peasants gathered on the tennis ground. One by one they came,
took off their hats or caps to one another, and took their places in a circle, leaning on their
sticks. The steward, a stout, muscular, strong young man, dressed in a short pea-jacket, with
a green stand-up collar, and enormous buttons, came to say that all had assembled, but that
they might wait until Nekhludoff had finished his breakfast--tea and coffee, whichever he pleased;
both were ready.

"No, I think I had better go and see them at once," said Nekhludoff, with an unexpected feeling
of shyness and shame at the thought of the conversation he was going to have with the peasants.
He was going to fulfil a wish of the peasants, the fulfilment of which they did not even dare
to hope for--to let the land to them at a low price, i.e., to confer a great boon; and yet
he felt ashamed of something. When Nekhludoff came up to the peasants, and the fair, the curly,
the bald, the grey heads were bared before him, he felt so confused that he could say nothing.
The rain continued to come down in small drops, that remained on the hair, the beards, and
the fluff of the men's rough coats. The peasants looked at "the master," waiting for him to
speak, and he was so abashed that he could not speak. This confused silence was broken by the
sedate, self-assured German steward, who considered himself a good judge of the Russian peasant,
and who spoke Russian remarkably well. This strong, over-fed man, and Nekhludoff himself, presented
a striking contrast to the peasants, with their thin, wrinkled faces and the shoulder blades
protruding beneath their coarse coats.

"Here's the Prince wanting to do you a favor, and to let the land to you; only you are not
worthy of it," said the steward.

"How are we not worthy of it, Vasili Karlovitch? Don't we work for you? We were well satisfied
with the deceased lady--God have mercy on her soul--and the young Prince will not desert us
now. Our thanks to him," said a redhaired, talkative peasant.

"Yes, that's why I have called you together. I should like to let you have all the land, if
you wish it."

The peasants said nothing, as if they did not understand or did not believe it.

"Let's see. Let us have the land? What do you mean?" asked a middle-aged man.

"To let it to you, that you might have the use of it, at a low rent."

"A very agreeable thing," said an old man.

"If only the pay is such as we can afford," said another.

"There's no reason why we should not rent the land."

"We are accustomed to live by tilling the ground."

"And it's quieter for you, too, that way. You'll have to do nothing but receive the rent. Only
think of all the sin and worry now!" several voices were heard saying.

"The sin is all on your side," the German remarked. "If only you did your work, and were orderly."

"That's impossible for the likes of us," said a sharp-nosed old man. "You say, 'Why do you
let the horse get into the corn?' just as if I let it in. Why, I was swinging my scythe, or
something of the kind, the livelong day, till the day seemed as long as a year, and so I fell
asleep while watching the herd of horses at night, and it got into your oats, and now you're
skinning me."

"And you should keep order."

"It's easy for you to talk about order, but it's more than our strength will bear," answered
a tall, dark, hairy middleaged man.

"Didn't I tell you to put up a fence?"

"You give us the wood to make it of," said a short, plain- looking peasant. "I was going to
put up a fence last year, and you put me to feed vermin in prison for three months. That was
the end of that fence."

"What is it he is saying?" asked Nekhludoff, turning to the steward.

"Der ersto Dieb im Dorfe," [The greatest thief in the village] answered the steward in German.
"He is caught stealing wood from the forest every year." Then turning to the peasant, he added,
"You must learn to respect other people's property."

"Why, don't we respect you?" said an old man. "We are obliged to respect you. Why, you could
twist us into a rope; we are in your hands."

"Eh, my friend, it's impossible to do you. It's you who are ever ready to do us," said the steward.

"Do you, indeed. Didn't you smash my jaw for me, and I got nothing for it? No good going to
law with the rich, it seems."

"You should keep to the law."

A tournament of words was apparently going on without those who took part in it knowing exactly
what it was all about; but it was noticeable that there was bitterness on one side, restricted
by fear, and on the other a consciousness of importance and power. It was very trying to Nekhludoff
to listen to all this, so he returned to the question of arranging the amount and the terms
of the rent.

"Well, then, how about the land? Do you wish to take it, and what price will you pay if I let
you have the whole of it?"

"The property is yours: it is for you to fix the price."

Nekhludoff named the price. Though it was far below that paid in the neighbourhood, the peasants
declared it too high, and began bargaining, as is customary among them. Nekhludoff thought
his offer would be accepted with pleasure, but no signs of pleasure were visible.

One thing only showed Nekhludoff that his offer was a profitable one to the peasants. The question
as to who would rent the land, the whole commune or a special society, was put, and a violent
dispute arose among those peasants who were in favour of excluding the weak and those not likely
to pay the rent regularly, and the peasants who would have to be excluded on that score. At
last, thanks to the steward, the amount and the terms of the rent were fixed, and the peasants
went down the hill towards their villages, talking noisily, while Nekhludoff and the steward
went into the office to make up the agreement. Everything was settled in the way Nekhludoff
wished and expected it to be. The peasants had their land 30 per cent. cheaper than they could
have got it anywhere in the district, the revenue from the land was diminished by half, but
was more than sufficient for Nekhludoff, especially as there would be money coming in for a
forest he sold, as well as for the agricultural implements, which would be sold, too. Everything
seemed excellently arranged, yet he felt ashamed of something. He could see that the peasants,
though they spoke words of thanks, were not satisfied, and had expected something greater.
So it turned out that he had deprived himself of a great deal, and yet not done what the peasants
had expected.

The next day the agreement was signed, and accompanied by several old peasants, who had been
chosen as deputies, Nekhludoff went out, got into the steward's elegant equipage (as the driver
from the station had called it), said "good-bye" to the peasants, who stood shaking their heads
in a dissatisfied and disappointed manner, and drove off to the station. Nekhludoff was dissatisfied
with himself without knowing why, but all the time he felt sad and ashamed of something.

CHAPTER III.

OLD ASSOCIATIONS.

From Kousminski Nekhludoff went to the estate he had inherited from his aunts, the same where
he first met Katusha. He meant to arrange about the land there in the way he had done in Kousminski.
Besides this, he wished to find out all he could about Katusha and her baby, and when and how
it had died. He got to Panovo early one morning, and the first thing that struck him when he
drove up was the look of decay and dilapidation that all the buildings bore, especially the
house itself. The iron roofs, which had once been painted green, looked red with rust, and
a few sheets of iron were bent back, probably by a storm. Some of the planks which covered
the house from outside were torn away in several places; these were easier to get by breaking
the rusty nails that held them. Both porches, but especially the side porch he remembered so
well, were rotten and broken; only the banister remained. Some of the windows were boarded
up, and the building in which the foreman lived, the kitchen, the stables--all were grey and
decaying. Only the garden had not decayed, but had grown, and was in full bloom; from over
the fence the cherry, apple, and plum trees looked like white clouds. The lilac bushes that
formed the hedge were in full bloom, as they had been when, 14 years ago, Nekhludoff had played
gorelki with the 15-year-old Katusha, and had fallen and got his hand stung by the nettles
behind one of those lilac bushes. The larch that his aunt Sophia had planted near the house,
which then was only a short stick, had grown into a tree, the trunk of which would have made
a beam, and its branches were covered with soft yellow green needles as with down. The river,
now within its banks, rushed noisily over the mill dam. The meadow the other side of the river
was dotted over by the peasants' mixed herds. The foreman, a student, who had left the seminary
without finishing the course, met Nekhludoff in the yard, with a smile on his face, and, still
smiling, asked him to come into the office, and, as if promising something exceptionally good
by this smile, he went behind a partition. For a moment some whispering was heard behind the
partition. The isvostchik who had driven Nekhludoff from the station, drove away after receiving
a tip, and all was silent. Then a barefooted girl passed the window; she had on an embroidered
peasant blouse, and long earrings in her ears; then a man walked past, clattering with his
nailed boots on the trodden path.

Nekhludoff sat down by the little casement, and looked out into the garden and listened. A
soft, fresh spring breeze, smelling of newly-dug earth, streamed in through the window, playing
with the hair on his damp forehead and the papers that lay on the window-sill, which was all
cut about with a knife.

"Tra-pa-trop, tra-pa-trop," comes a sound from the river, as the women who were washing clothes
there slapped them in regular measure with their wooden bats, and the sound spread over the
glittering surface of the mill pond while the rhythmical sound of the falling water came from
the mill, and a frightened fly suddenly flew loudly buzzing past his ear.

And all at once Nekhludoff remembered how, long ago, when he was young and innocent, he had
heard the women's wooden bats slapping the wet clothes above the rhythmical sound from the
mill, and in the same way the spring breeze had blown about the hair on his wet forehead and
the papers on the window-sill, which was all cut about with a knife, and just in the same way
a fly had buzzed loudly past his car.

It was not exactly that he remembered himself as a lad of 15, but he seemed to feel himself
the same as he was then, with the same freshness and purity, and full of the same grand possibilities
for the future, and at the same time, as it happens in a dream, he knew that all this could
be no more, and he felt terribly sad. "At what time would you like something to eat?" asked
the foreman, with a smile.

"When you like; I am not hungry. I shall go for a walk through the village."

"Would you not like to come into the house? Everything is in order there. Have the goodness
to look in. If the outside---"

"Not now; later on. Tell me, please, have you got a woman here called Matrona Kharina?" (This
was Katusha's aunt, the village midwife.)

"Oh, yes; in the village she keeps a secret pot-house. I know she does, and I accuse her of
it and scold her; but as to taking her up, it would be a pity. An old woman, you know; she
has grandchildren," said the foreman, continuing to smile in the same manner, partly wishing
to be pleasant to the master, and partly because he was convinced that Nekhludoff understood
all these matters just as well as he did himself.

"Where does she live? I shall go across and see her."

"At the end of the village; the further side, the third from the end. To the left there is
a brick cottage, and her hut is beyond that. But I'd better see you there," the foreman said
with a graceful smile.

"No, thanks, I shall find it; and you be so good as to call a meeting of the peasants, and
tell them that I want to speak to them about the land," said Nekhludoff, with the intention
of coming to the same agreement with the peasants here as he had done in Kousminski, and, if
possible, that same evening.

CHAPTER IV.

THE PEASANTS' LOT.

When Nekhludoff came out of the gate he met the girl with the long earrings on the well-trodden
path that lay across the pasture ground, overgrown with dock and plantain leaves. She had a
long, brightly-coloured apron on, and was quickly swinging her left arm in front of herself
as she stepped briskly with her fat, bare feet. With her right arm she was pressing a fowl
to her stomach. The fowl, with red comb shaking, seemed perfectly calm; he only rolled up his
eyes and stretched out and drew in one black leg, clawing the girl's apron. When the girl came
nearer to "the master," she began moving more slowly, and her run changed into a walk. When
she came up to him she stopped, and, after a backward jerk with her head, bowed to him; and
only when he had passed did she recommence to run homeward with the cock. As he went down towards
the well, he met an old woman, who had a coarse dirty blouse on, carrying two pails full of
water, that hung on a yoke across her bent back. The old woman carefully put down the pails
and bowed, with the same backward jerk of her head.

After passing the well Nekhludoff entered the village. It was a bright, hot day, and oppressive,
though only ten o'clock. At intervals the sun was hidden by the gathering clouds. An unpleasant,
sharp smell of manure filled the air in the street. It came from carts going up the hillside,
but chiefly from the disturbed manure heaps in the yards of the huts, by the open gates of
which Nekhludoff had to pass. The peasants, barefooted, their shirts and trousers soiled with
manure, turned to look at the tall, stout gentleman with the glossy silk ribbon on his grey
hat who was walking up the village street, touching the ground every other step with a shiny,
bright-knobbed walking-stick. The peasants returning from the fields at a trot and jotting
in their empty carts, took off their hats, and, in their surprise, followed with their eyes
the extraordinary man who was walking up their street. The women came out of the gates or stood
in the porches of their huts, pointing him out to each other and gazing at him as he passed.

When Nekhludoff was passing the fourth gate, he was stopped by a cart that was coming out,
its wheels creaking, loaded high with manure, which was pressed down, and was covered with
a mat to sit on. A six-year-old boy, excited by the prospect of a drive, followed the cart.
A young peasant, with shoes plaited out of bark on his feet, led the horse out of the yard.
A long-legged colt jumped out of the gate; but, seeing Nekhludoff, pressed close to the cart,
and scraping its legs against the wheels, jumped forward, past its excited, gently-neighing
mother, as she was dragging the heavy load through the gateway. The next horse was led out
by a barefooted old man, with protruding shoulder-blades, in a dirty shirt and striped trousers.

When the horses got out on to the hard road, strewn over with bits of dry, grey manure, the
old man returned to the gate, and bowed to Nekhludoff.

"You are our ladies' nephew, aren't you?"

"Yes, I am their nephew."

"You've kindly come to look us up, eh?" said the garrulous old man.

"Yes, I have. Well, how are you getting on?"

"How do we get on? We get on very badly," the old man drawled, as if it gave him pleasure.

"Why so badly?" Nekhludoff asked, stepping inside the gate.

"What is our life but the very worst life?" said the old man, following Nekhludoff into that
part of the yard which was roofed over.

Nekhludoff stopped under the roof.

"I have got 12 of them there," continued the old man, pointing to two women on the remainder
of the manure heap, who stood perspiring with forks in their hands, the kerchiefs tumbling
off their heads, with their skirts tucked up, showing the calves of their dirty, bare legs.
"Not a month passes but I have to buy six poods [a pood is 36 English pounds] of corn, and
where's the money to come from?"

"Have you not got enough corn of your own?"

"My own?" repeated the old man, with a smile of contempt; "why I have only got land for three,
and last year we had not enough to last till Christmas."

"What do you do then?"

"What do we do? Why, I hire out as a labourer; and then I borrowed some money from your honour.
We spent it all before Lent, and the tax is not paid yet."

"And how much is the tax?"

"Why, it's 17 roubles for my household. Oh, Lord, such a life! One hardly knows one's self
how one manages to live it."

"May I go into your hut?" asked Nekhludoff, stepping across the yard over the yellow-brown
layers of manure that had been raked up by the forks, and were giving off a strong smell.

"Why not? Come in," said the old man, and stepping quickly with his bare feet over the manure,
the liquid oozing between his toes, he passed Nekhludoff and opened the door of the hut.

The women arranged the kerchiefs on their heads and let down their skirts, and stood looking
with surprise at the clean gentleman with gold studs to his sleeves who was entering their
house. Two little girls, with nothing on but coarse chemises, rushed out of the hut. Nekhludoff
took off his hat, and, stooping to get through the low door, entered, through a passage into
the dirty, narrow hut, that smelt of sour food, and where much space was taken up by two weaving
looms. In the hut an old woman was standing by the stove, with the sleeves rolled up over her
thin, sinewy brown arms.

"Here is our master come to see us," said the old man.

"I'm sure he's very welcome," said the old woman, kindly.

"I would like to see how you live."

"Well, you see how we live. The hut is coming down, and might kill one any day; but my old
man he says it's good enough, and so we live like kings," said the brisk old woman, nervously
jerking her head. "I'm getting the dinner; going to feed the workers."

"And what are you going to have for dinner?"

"Our food is very good. First course, bread and kvas; [kvas is a kind of sour, non-intoxicant
beer made of rye] second course, kvas and bread," said the old woman, showing her teeth, which
were half worn away.

"No," seriously; "let me see what you are going to eat."

"To eat?" said the old man, laughing. "Ours is not a very cunning meal. You just show him, wife."

