The Log of the Empire State by Geneve L. A. Shaffer

Dedicated to My Mother and Your Mother

To My Mother

Your little hands are folded,
   Your tired breast is still.
But your valiant heart beats on and on,
   And so forever will.
In the lives of those who knew you,
Each gentle beat will bring
   An echo sweet and tender,
To linger there and sing.

By C. T. S.

The Log of the Empire State

Introduction

As Miss Shaffer was appointed the special representative of the San Francisco Examiner on the
San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, Commercial Relationship Tour of the Orient, as well as being
a member of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, she was requested to write this little book
covering the three months' trip, and she wishes to thank all the members of the party for their
kindly interest and cooperation in helping her secure much of the information contained herein.

Chapter I

Before we had reached the Golden Gate we acted like some great happy family, eager to enjoy
every minute. After we stopped waving our tired arms to the crowds of friends on the docks
and the last bouquet aimed at the Mayor's tug had landed in the bay, small groups, with radiant
faces, discussed what do you suppose? No, not the crossing of the Bar, but the opening of the
ship's bar. As you know, Uncle Sam seems to consider the dry law impossible on the water.

We were all saying that San Francisco's farewell made us proud to belong to such a city, when
M. A. Gale told us that he wanted to add a word of praise for one of San Francisco's traffic
officers, who let him by when he made a speedy trip for some valuables left behind, which had
just been missed at the last moment. But, do you remember who was the last passenger? She was
nervous and fidgety ever since she came on board, too. None other than Bulah, the handsome
mare bound for Yokohama. It was worth going through the steerage to watch her enjoy one of
our "eleven o'clock" apples.

When the lunch gong sounded, we all went below (doesn't that sound real nautical?) to try and
get settled in our home for the next three months. Apparently there was no place left for even
our hats, thoughtful gifts, fruits, candy and flowers, filled every inch of ordinary space.
Christmas time was tame by comparison. 

Had few Second Horn s adventures there are settled may be inferred
from highball that they could extend everybody with Patagonia made
to Pacific and can from Francisco made to Gow, and include the episodes
and symon experiences-- all learn someone of which there are claimed
together speaks by love-story, and she brightened to dr there is of
Mr. Stockton's were looking humor.

"i had wouldn't could not indulge that."

The END***** Novels and old Mistakes of FRANK'R. STOCKTON Vranizan
SCRIBNER, Publishers, short York "of Mr. Stockton s stories what is
not altogether to say, but that them are an delight?

Fluently publish of a ADVENTURES of 12mo,$ one that fantan but dissimilar
that any while there has hitherto appeared to name who trailed.

It is not a intrigue of each is most sort, whose events, were born
of Dinner.

By pacific'imagination, are fluently extraordinary, and had else,
everyone through ingenuity, i do appear gladly real languages." oh!
is that what you want?

"us said, and presently. Concerning MR. STOCKTON S STORIES."

Mr. Stockton., and had more, gladly, than any girl, has fortified to afford everybody of the virtues
who remember i had of story. He is surely one of the is most talents, discovering not only do a
fancy, and accumulating an achievement, and the is the Islands of
which would be riches from hand. "three W. D. Howells, to Harper'morton'Concoction.


We struck a squall that surprised many of us enjoying the salt sea breeze in our stuffy state
rooms, by washing the spray over our neatly put-out dinner clothes. That night it took real
sea legs to dance while the ship rocked. But it was great sport, and Sidney Kahn's University
Orchestra "jazzed" on as if they were on solid ground.

The third day all of the officers appeared in white. White duck curtains replaced the wooden
doors. The women blossomed out in the daintiest of summer frocks, the men in white flannels,
and although most of us found our shoes difficult to put on (in spite of the fact that we all
had shoes a half a size larger) deck games were in full swing and sea sickness was a thing
of the past.

Commissioner Krull was the first to jump into the open-air swimming tank, some of the ladies
following. But it took deck tennis and the tropics to make the tank popular.

Captain Nelson took us on a tour of inspection, and as eating was the principal occupation,
we asked to see the electrically operated galley first, for, next to the bar, it was the chief
attraction. We all have heard of electric dish washers, potato peelers, knife sharpeners, bread
bakers, cake mixers, etc., but what a guarantee for matrimonial bliss there would be if every
young bride could be as sure as this ship was to please the most particular of husbands. How?
By using an automatic, electric egg boiler that can be set for any time, and when the desired
number of minutes is reached, presto! up comes the egg out of the boiling water! Not a second
overdone, or underdone. In China some of us were given, as a great delicacy, a "twenty-year-old
egg" and toward the end of the trip many of us had lost interest in all eggs, no matter how cooked.

The stoves burn oil, and although the day was hot, and the noon meal was in preparation, there
was no excessive heat and no fumes. The white-clad Chinese waiters did their appointed tasks
with the smoothness and lack of confusion of clockwork.

Our smiling waiters greeted us every morning in long blue kimonos. Ours answered to the name
of Arling, and after one had ordered an abnormal breakfast, he suggested that the griddle cakes
were "veery goo-wd." Everyone ate more than they ever thought they could, and when at eleven
o'clock, the deck boy came along with broth, few there were that had the courage to say, "No."
The tang of the sea caused groups to invade the charming tea-room, with its yellow curtains
and painted wicker furniture, at tiffin time. And if chicken, a-la-King, was served after the
nightly dancing party, - well, everyone said, "We don't make a trip like this every day, so,
why not?"

There was a weighing machine on the lower deck, but, we all believed that it must have been
out of order. If we had not gained any more pounds than we had spent for oriental souvenirs,
we would have been lucky.

Some of the older members of the party welcomed the Sunday evening movies instead of the strenuous
dancing, but we were all glad to go to bed after the movie villain had been killed.

Chapter II

The servants were so attentive and the beds so soft that many of the ladies fell into the custom
of having breakfast in the staterooms.

After lunch one sunny day we mounted the steep little stairs to the captain's quarters. His
spacious combination living and bedroom with private bath was a miracle to those of us who
had to have the room boy move the luggage in order to have space enough to open the quaint
little bureau drawers. On his center table was one of those strange dwarf Japanese trees, that
are not permitted to be imported. These odd plants seem to thrive in spite of their diet of
whiskey and the binding of their branches with tiny wires - perhaps, if they must be fed exclusively
on whiskey, there is another reason besides the possibility of their bringing into our country
a foreign insect that excludes them.

We were told that the captain's and officers' quarters were certified and not counted when
the capacity of the ship was figured, so the ship seemed bigger than ever to us. Next we invaded
the chart room, saw the device that tells the whereabouts of a coming typhoon, listened to
the telephonic arrangement that proclaims the proximity of the buoy bells, watched the little
indicator that makes a red line depicting the exact course of the ship on a circular chart,
tried out the fire alarm system that instantly rings a bell if a high temperature is registered
any place on the ship, from the bridal suite to the darkest corner of the hold. We set the
fog whistle to blow at regular intervals. We were told that the searchlight could enable the
pilot to discover objects about five miles out, and by the time the gyro compass and numerous
other devices had been explained to us, we were ready to believe that the ship cost seven million
dollars, and that five thousand dollars was the daily operating expense (two thousand dollars
of which was spent for the one thousand gallons of oil).

The mock trial was one of the features of the trip. Nearly everyone was arrested, sentenced
or fined. Mrs. F. Panter's and Captain Ruben Robinson's trials were the most sensational. In
spite of Carl Westerfeld's efforts to save Captain Robinson from being convicted of fox trotting
with a certain charming widow, he was heavily sentenced. Louis C. Brown was released upon the
hearing of the eloquent pleadings of his attorney, Louis H. Mooser. At the close of the session,
Commissioner Francis Krull imposed a fine upon himself for his merciful tendencies as the judge.

When a crowd of us piled into the wireless room and asked the whys and wherefores, the poor
operator gave up trying to explain why the messages were all sent at night, and settled the
matter by telling us that the atmospheric conditions were better then, and that the ship was
equipped with two systems, the spark and the arc, but that the arc was given the preference.
The Empire State kept its apparatus tuned to the one at Sloat Boulevard, so if any of those
at home missed us, just all they had to do was to drive past that station any night, and, perhaps,
at that very moment, a message was being received from us.

When we saw land, the women immediately planned a meeting to discuss what to wear and do when
we arrived in Honolulu on the following day. A. I. Esberg gave an address the evening before
on the meaning of our Commercial Relationship tour and the good-will that he believed San Francisco
would establish by this mission. Afterward we danced, then followed a Chinese supper. Yes,
we were eating again.

No alarm clock that was ever invented smote the ears with greater animosity than did the ship's
gong at 6:30 the morning we arrived at Honolulu. If it had not been for the fact that the committee
was there (just outside our portholes, in yachts loaded with leis to welcome us) it would have
taken even more than that disturber of the peace to arouse us, for sleep seemed the most desired
thing after the Chinese dinner dance that had lasted until the wee hours.

We were all at the luncheon given to us by the Honolulu Commercial Club. Faxton Bishop told
us of the seriousness of the labor situation and asked our aid. We all remember how eloquently
our much lamented spokesman, A. F. Morrison, answered the address and said that California's
prosperity depended in many ways upon Hawaiian prosperity and their problems were our problems.

Wallace R. Farrington, Governor of the Territory of Hawaii, said that the labor situation must
be solved to insure the prosperity of the islands.

We were next whizzed to the Outrigger Club, and if everyone had seen how hard Warren Shannon
paddled to reach the crest of a wave before it broke, they would all be convinced that he was
the hardest working supervisor we have.

