JUNE
                                 1667

June 1st.  After dinner to the office, where, after a little nap, I fell to business, and did
very much with infinite joy to myself, as it always is to me when I have dispatched much business,
and therefore it troubles me to see how hard it is for me to settle to it sometimes when my
mind is upon pleasure.  So home late to supper and to bed.

2nd (Lord's day).  Up betimes, and down to my chamber without trimming myself, or putting on
clean linen, thinking only to keep to my chamber and do business to-day, but when I come there
I find that without being shaved I am not fully awake, nor ready to settle to business, and
so was fain to go up again and dress myself, which I did, and so down to my chamber, and fell
roundly to business, and did to my satisfaction by dinner go far in the drawing up a state
of my accounts of Tangier for the new Lords Commissioners.  So to dinner, and then to my business
again all the afternoon close, when Creed come to visit me, but I did put him off, and to my
business, till anon I did make an end, and wrote it fair with a letter to the Lords to accompany
my accounts, which I think will be so much satisfaction and so soon done (their order for my
doing it being dated but May 30) as they will not find from any hand else.  Being weary and
almost blind with writing and reading so much to-day, I took boat at the Old Swan, and there
up the river all alone as high as Putney almost, and then back again, all the way reading,
and finishing Mr. Boyle's book of Colours, which is so chymical, that I can understand but
little of it, but understand enough to see that he is a most excellent man.  So back and home,
and there to supper, and so to bed.

3rd.  Up, and by coach to St. James's, and with Sir W. Coventry a great while talking about
several businesses, but especially about accounts, and how backward our Treasurer is in giving
them satisfaction, and the truth is I do doubt he cannot do better, but it is strange to say
that being conscious of our doing little at this day, nor for some time past in our office
for want of money, I do hang my head to him, and cannot be so free with him as I used to be,
nor can be free with him, though of all men, I think, I have the least cause to be so, having
taken so much more pains, while I could do anything, than the rest of my fellows. Then drew
the whole party together down to the bathhouse. Here, the kid was on his Bearing down, and Moni
took his leave. Paula went back to her room to her aunt here for a long time to tell of the
goat boy, on the merry morning song, they are already once again happy.

3.

Chapter

A visit

Thus several days passed, such a sunny and clear as the others because it was a particularly nice
summer. And the sky was blue and cloudless from morning until evening.

Every

morning at dawn was the goat-boy singing lustily drawn past the bath house, every Evening singing
lustily again turned back.

And all the bathers were so in the happy Singing used to, that no one would have liked to miss.

Above
all, however, Paul was happy to Monis cheerfulness and went to meet him almost every night,
anzuknuepfen a conversation with him.

On a sunny morning was Moni again reached the top in the pulpit and was about to rock just sit on the
floor, as he changed his mind or otherwise. "No, forward! You have indeed The last time the
good little leaves have to leave them all because we help the Maggerli had, now it goes up again,
as you can chew it! "And jumped with joy him to all the goats, because they realized that one
of the beautiful bushes of the dragon stones went up. This time was his small but Moni Maggerli
all the time in the arm firmly, crack him the good little leaves himself off and let it eat from
his hand.

This pleased the little kids Best of all, it rubbed quite pleased from time to time his head on
his shoulder and Monis bleated cheerful. Thus the whole morning passed and Moni noticed it on
his hunger, that it was getting late. He had his food down in the pulpit in the little rock Cave
can cherish, because he wanted to come down again at noon.

"So, now you've already got a lot of good, and I still have nothing," he said to his Goats.
"Now I have to have something down and you can still find enough, come!" Then whistled He pulled
out loud, and the whole crowd and away, the most lively and always forward all pre- the fleet-footed
Swallow, who was to meet today something unexpected happened. They jumped down from stone to stone,
and about some crevice away, but suddenly she could not continue.

Immediately before her all of a sudden there was a mountain goat and gazed curiously into his
face. That was never yet come under the swallow. She stood there, looked inquiringly at the
stranger and waited for her this go out of their way.

Because she wanted to jump on the boulder, the loomed before her. But the chamois did not move
and watched the swallow cheeky face. So both were each other, always stubborn, and even today
they would stand there, if not now the great Sultan would be at hand. He immediately recognized
the situation and climbed gently past the swallow. Suddenly, he joined the chamois so far and so
powerfully on the side that they had to make a bold leap to not have the Rock slide down.

The swallow but moved triumphantly on her way, and the Sultan walked
satisfied and proud after her, for he felt himself as a safe protector
of his flock.

Meanwhile Moni from above and from below, another goat-boy arrived
at a place close and also looked astonished at each other.

But they knew each other, and after the first surprise welcomed them to be friendly. It was the Jorgli
of Küblis, already half the morning long sought in vain to monitor
him and had now met up here, where he no longer suspected.

"I did not think that you would go up so high with the goats," said
the Jorgli.

"Of course I'm going," said Monica, "but not always. Usually I'm at rock pulpit. Why did you come
up there? "

"I'll make a visit," was the reply, "I have to tell you all sorts. Also I have two goats, which
I take the host in the bathroom, he wants to buy one, and there I thought I was still up to
you. "

"Are your goats?" asked Moni.

"Of course, the alien did not guard me, not I'm more goat-boy."

Moni about it had to be very surprised because at the same time with him was the goat-boy Jorgli
Küblis from now, and Monica did not understand that the way and could not stop the Jorgli not once
complained.

Meanwhile, shepherds and goats had arrived at the rock pulpit.

Moni took bread and a Piece of dried meat out and invited the Jorgli
to lunch.

They sat both the pulpit and also took it all in good taste. Because it was very late become, and
they both had an excellent appetite. When eaten everything now and then a little goat milk had been
drunk, the Jorgli put quite comfortable the length according to the ground and rested his head
on his elbows.

Moni was still sitting because he always looked like from above down into the deep valley.

"What are you now, Jorgli, if you are not goat-boy?"

Moni started to now, "something you have to be that. "

"Of course I am a little bit and right," replied Jorgli, "I'm Eierbub. Every day I go with the
eggs in all Wirtshaeuser, so far I get. Here come up to the bathhouse
I also, yesterday I was there.

"

Moni shook his head: "That is not Eierbub I do not want to be, a thousand
times rather I will be goat-boy, which is much nicer.

"

"But why?"

"The eggs are not so vivid, that you can not speak a word.

And you do not run still the goats, who are happy when you are coming from pending and understand
every word that you talk to them. You can not have fun with your eggs as with the goats up
here. "

"Yes, and you," interrupted Jorgli, "what have you been up here for great joy? Now you probably have
to get up six times, while we were eating, just because of the stupid
Little kids, so it does not hinunterfaellt.

Is that a joy? "

"Yes, I do very much.

Not true, Maggerli, come, come!" Monica jumped up and ran the little kids to, because it was very
careless Freudenspruenge. When he sat back, Jorgli said: "There is also another means to keep the
young goats that they do not about to fall down the rocks and they were not always jump in as
you need "

"What kind?" asked Moni.

"They stuck a stick into the ground and ties the goat with one foot
on it.

You then wriggles while terrible, but she can not continue.

"

"You will not believe that I have something do with the kids," said
Moni very indignant.

He pulled the Maggerli to him and held it as he would have to protect
it.

"To the little kid you do not have more to worry long," began Jorgli
again, "comes not up here.

"

"What, what, what do you say Jorgli?" went to Moni.

"Bah, you know's not? The landlord will not raise it, it's him too weak, it will never be a
hefty Geiss.

He wanted to sell my father, but wanted it not. Now it will kill the economy next week, and then
he buys our check there. "

Moni had become quite white with fear.

First he could not say a word, but now lamented he shouted and cried,

"No,
no, you are not allowed to do Maggerli that they must not do.

They may do not you kill that I can not bear. Oh, I would rather like to die with you. No, it
can not be! "

"Do not be so," said Jorgli annoying and pulled the monitor in the altitude that in his Jammer
had thrown with his face to the ground. "Get it on, you know, that the little kid Now once owned
by the landlord and he can do what he wants.

Think no more turn! Come on I know something else: Look! Look, "then held out his Moni Jorgli the one
hand, and with the other he covered the subject of almost, to admire the Moni. It sparkled but
wonderfully out of hand out, because the sun shone just in there.

"What is it?" Moni asked when she was just flashed back, lit by a sunbeam.

"Rat!"

"A ring?"

"No, but something similar."

"Who gave you?"

"Where?" No one, I found it myself. "

"Then it does not belong to you, Jorgli."

"Why not? No one I have read, I almost stepped on the foot, then waer's still broken. I can also
keep well. "

"Where did you find it?"

"Down by the bathhouse last night."

"Then someone from the house down is lost. You must tell the landlord, and if you's do not do
it, I do's tonight. "

"Do No, no, Moni, not that," said Jorgli now asking, "Look, I will show you what it is. And
I want to sell in one of the Wirtshaeusern a Maid, but they must give me four francs, then I'll
give you even one or two, and then white yes no one of them.

"

"I want nothing I want nothing!" Moni interrupted him violently, "and God has everything heard
what you said. "

Jorgli looked at the sky. "Yes, so far away," he said, doubtful. He caught but immediately on
to speak more softly.

"He hears you yet," Moni said confidently.

The Jorgli it was not quite comfortable in his skin. If he only monitor on its side bringing knew,
or was lost. He thought for a long time. "Moni," he said suddenly, "I will promise you something
that pleases you, if you anyone some of the found want to say.

You only need to take anything like this, then you have nothing to do with it. If you want that,
I will see to it that my father still buys Maggerli. Then it is not slaughtered, do you want?
"

Moni was a tough battle. It was wrong when he helped to conceal the discovery. Jorgli had put
up his hand, it was a cross in it, set with many stones, sparkled in all colors. Moni saw
clearly that this was not a worthless thing, after the no one will ask. If he would remain silent,
he would keep something that belonged not to him. But on the other side was the little, loving
Maggerli, which was a terrible , Be killed with a knife, and he was able to prevent this silent
if he wished. Just now the little kid was so confident his side as if it knew that he had always
was to help. No, he could not have happened, he had to save it.

"Agreed, Jorgli," he said, but without joy.

"So a shock." Jorgli and held out his hand to Moni, that he promise in, as only such a promise
was irrevocable.

Jorgli was very happy that now he was sure of his cause.

But since Moni become so quiet was and he had a much broader way home as Moni, so he decided
with his two Goats break. He said goodbye to Monica and whistled the two companions, had now
joined the grazing goats of the monitor. It had a number of concerns Attacks between the two
parties held since the Fideriser goats did not know that it must be good with a visit. And the
Küblis goats did not know that not just choose the best herb and
the other may push away what you get on a visit.

So when a piece of Jorgli the mountain had gone down, broke Moni with his band on, but he was
very still and sang no sound and did not whistle on the all the way home.

4. Chapter

Monica can not sing

Moni came the next morning just as quiet and depressed as the night
before the road Therefore, to the bathhouse.

He quietly took out the goats of the host and went up further, but he sang a note, he sent no
yodel up in the air. He let his head hang and made a face as he was afraid of something. Here
and there, he looked shy around to see if he is not someone offspring and wanted him to ask you
something.

Monica could not even be funny. He knew only itself does not quite know why? He wanted rejoice
that he had saved Maggerli and sing once, but he brought nothing out.

The sky was now covered with clouds, and Moni was thinking when the sun, would come he'll turn out
fun.

When he reached the top, it started to rain very hard. He escaped in the rain rocks because
it was pouring down in torrents from the sky soon.

The goats were also approached and stood here and there among the rocks. The refined Blacks had
the same wish to preserve their beautiful shiny coat and was before the Moni crawled under the rocks.
She sat now behind the monitor and looked out of the comfortable Vergnuegt angle out into the pouring
rain. Maggerli stood before his protector under the projecting rocks and tenderly rubbed his
head against his knee. And then looked It amazed at him, because Monica did not say a word
that was not the kids used to. Also Brown shuffled his feet and to
his pretending that because he had the whole morning, said nothing
to her.

Moni sat there thinking. He had been leaning on his stick, he is always at hand in such weather
was so that he does not slip on steep sites could. Because on rainy days he put on shoes. Now
that monitor for hours under the rain rocks sat, he had time to think.

Now roofed Moni, what he had promised the Jorgli.

And it never occurred to him now different before, as if the Jorgli
have taken anything and he do the same.

Finally, had Jorgli him but something given for his silence. He had done something wrong was,
and God was now against him, which he felt in his heart.

He was right, that it was dark and raining and it was hidden under the rocks. Because he would
have not look up as usual in the blue sky allowed, he was afraid now before the love God. But
also think about other things had to Moni. If again Maggerli over a steep cliff fell down, and
he wanted to get it, and God would no longer protect him if he could pray to him and not call,
then would have he no longer safe. And then when he slipped and with the Maggerli deeply about
the jagged rocks would fall down and they all torn and shattered below would be in the abyss
...

Oh no, he said anxiously to him, it could not come yet. He had to ensure that he could pray again,
and come before God with all that to him on the heart was. Then he could be happy again, which
felt Moni. He wanted from the Last liberate the oppressed him, he wanted to go and tell everything
to the economy - but then? Then was Jorgli persuade his father, and the landlord would totstechen
Maggerli. Oh no! He could not stand, he said. "No, I do not know, I say nothing" But he was
not comfortable, and his conscience was getting bigger.

So passed the monitor all day. He returned home in the evening as quietly as he arrived in the morning
was. And when Paula was standing down at the bath house and quickly became the goats and stable
heruebersprang asked sympathetically: "?

Moni, what's wrong Why are you singing it not even more" - and turned He is shy off and said,
"I can not."

And as soon as possible, he set out with his goats away.

Paula said up to her aunt: "If I knew only what was the goat-boy,
he is completely changed, it does not know him anymore.

If he would only back singer. "

"It will be the terrible rain that upset the boy that way," said the
aunt.

"Now comes together and everything. We want to go home yet, aunt,"
asked Paula, "the pleasure here is off.

First I lose my nice cross, and it is hard to find.

Then does this endless rain, and now can not even listen to the funny
Geiss boys.

We want to continue. "

"The cure must be done to end, because I can not help you," said the
aunt.

Dark gray and it was the next morning and the rain poured down incessantly.

Moni brought his day just as much as the previous. He sat under the rocks, and his restless thoughts
went round and round in circles.

Every time he said to himself, "Now will I go and confess the wrong that I must again look up
to God, "saw as he returned the kid under the knife himself. He thought, and his guilty conscience
tormented him so much that he was very tired in the evening and stole
home in the pouring rain, as he noticed nothing.

The Bath House was the host in the back doors and pulled over to the monitor: "Come again with
the goats since they are wet enough!

What do you crawl down the mountain like a snail! I wonder I have all the time about you. "

So
unfriendly to the host had never been, on the contrary, he always had the happy Geiss boys the
friendly words shouted. Monis But he did not like being altered, and for that he was still
in a bad mood because he had complained Paula Fraeulein their loss.

She had claimed the precious Cross could only in the building or directly on your doorstep have
been lost. For it was on that day only gone out to dinner the returning Geiss boys sing to hear.
That one can say, however, can put it in his house such a valuable Ding lost without it getting
back, it was very evil. He also had gathered the day before the All service personnel, it interrogated
and threatened and finally the Finder a reward exposed.

The whole house was in an uproar over the lost jewelry.

As Moni walked with his goats on the front of the house, Paul was there. You had waited for
him, it surprised them so much if he could not sing it yet again
and had fun.

As he crept over now, she said: "Moni Moni Are you then also the same Goat-boy, who sang from
morning till night:

"'And so blue is the sky, And I'm looking forward nearly to death'?"

Moni heard the words, he did not answer, but they made a big impression
on him.

Oh, is how it's so different than he could sing all day and he was as happy as his songs. Oh, if
it yet so could be!

Moni again pulled up to his hill, silent and joyless and without vocals.

The rain had aufgehoert now, but hung round the bleak mist on the mountains and the sky was still
full of dark clouds.

Moni sat down among the rocks and fought with his thoughts. Around noon the sky began to explain
himself, it became brighter and brighter. Moni came from out of his cave and looked around.
The goats jumped again funny way and that, even the kid was very
spirited for joy over the return of the sun and made the Jolly Jumps.

Moni
stood outside on the pulpit and saw how it was always nice and bright
at the bottom of Valley and up over the mountains. Now split the clouds
and the light-blue sky looked so lovely and friendly guide. It was
Monica, a look of love from God to the clear Blue down to him. And
suddenly it was in his heart very clearly what he had, he was the
wrong not to ask around with it. He had to drop it. Now seized Moni
the kid that ran around beside him, took it into his arm and said
tenderly: "O Maggerli, poor Maggerli did, I certainly did what I could,
but it is an injustice and we do not do. Oh, if only you will not
need to die, I can not stand it! " And now Moni began to cry so much
that he could no longer continue to talk. And the kid bleated mournfully
and crawled deep under his arm as if it wanted to completely hide
from him and to safety. Moni now lifted the little kid on his shoulders.

"Come,
Maggerli, I'll carry you home again today, maybe I can make you not
soon carry more. "

When he and his goats down the Bath House was,
Paula was waiting for him. Moni presented dragging the boy with the
black people in the house in, and instead further, he wanted to the
lady walk past the house. She stopped him.

"Still no singing, Moni?"

"I
must indicate something," said Moni.

"Ads? What? Can not I know you?"

"I
need to host, it has found something."

"Found? What? I have also
lost something, a nice cross."

"Yes, it is now."

"What you say?"
cried Paula in highly surprising. "Is it a cross with sparkling stones?"

"Yes."

"Where
you have it because, Moni?'s Give it here, have you's found?"

"No,
the Jorgli of Küblis."

Now, Paula wanted to know who that was, and
where he lived, and on the spot anyone Küblis , Send down to fetch
the cross.

"I will go on, and if he has not, I will bring it," said
Moni.

"If he's still has?" cried Paula, "why should he's no longer
have and how did you know because of everything that Moni? When he
found it, and know how you feel about that? "

Moni looked to the
ground. He could not say how it had happened, and how he helped had
to conceal the find until it was no longer able to endure.

But Paula
was very good to Moni. She took him to the side, sat down on a log
to him and said, with the greatest kindness, "Come, tell me everything
as it went is Moni, I really want to know everything about you. "

Well
summed up the confidence and began to monitor and told the whole thing.
He also reported that he had made the lives of Maggerli concerns and
how he lost so all the joy had and could no longer look up to God.
Today, he said he could not longer tolerate.

Now Paula spoke very
kindly to him and said he would have just come right and everything
want to display. And it was right that he now said all that so sincere,
he should not regret it. Then she told the Jorgli ten francs he could
expect if they the cross was again in hands.

"Ten francs?" Moni repeated
in amazement. For he knew that it had Jorgli want to sell. Now on
Moni stood and said he was still down to Küblis and if he got the
cross, bring it first thing tomorrow morning. Now he ran away and
was able to again make some really big jumps, he again had a much
lighter heart, the bad Conscience was no longer contaminated.

At
home, he put only his goat in the stable, said the Grandmother, he
still had a job align and immediately ran down to Küblis. He found
the home and said Jorgli him what he had done. The first was very
upset, but when he heard now, that everything well known there, he
pulled out the cross and asked, "Is it me something for it?"

had
"Yes, now you can see Jorgli," Moni said indignantly, "in an honest
way you get the same ten francs, and on your Luegenweg but only four.
"

Jorgli was very surprised. Now it repented him that he is not the
same with the Cross bath house left, after he had picked up before
the door. Because he had now no good have conscience and it would
have otherwise. But now it was too late. He handed over the cross
the monitor, and this hastened to home, it was now dark outside.

5.
Chapter

Monica sings again

Paula had ordered that they should wake
up early this morning. If the goat-boy came, did they even negotiate
with him. In the evening she still had a long conversation with the
Host had and was very satisfied then come out of his room. They had
to do something Rants have identified with him.

When the goat-boy
came up in the morning with his flock, Paula was already standing
in front of the house and shouted, "Moni, because you can not sing
it yet?"

He shook his head: "No, I can not, I have to think now always
Maggerli, how long it takes me. I can sing no more, as long as I live,
and here is the cross. "  Thence to Sir G. Carteret's to take my
leave of my Lady Jem, who is going into the country tomorrow; but she
being now at prayers with my Lady and family, and hearing here by Yorke,
the carrier, that my wife is coming to towne, I did make haste home to see
her, that she might not find me abroad, it being the first minute I have
been abroad since yesterday was se'ennight.  It is pretty to see how
strange it is to be abroad to see people, as it used to be after a month
or two's absence, and I have brought myself so to it, that I have no great
mind to be abroad, which I could not have believed of myself.  I got home,
and after being there a little, she come, and two of her fellow-travellers
with her, with whom we drunk: a couple of merchant-like men, I think, but
have friends in our country.  Such was my trouble at this, that I fell out with my wife, that
though new come to towne, I did not sup with her, nor speak to her
tonight, but to bed and sleep.

20th.  At noon, home to dinner, and there my wife and I very good friends; the care of my gold
being somewhat over, considering it was in their hands that have as much cause to secure it
as myself almost, and so if they will be mad, let them.  But yet I do intend to, send for it
away. Here dined Mercer with us, and after dinner she cut my hair, and then I into my closet
and there slept a little, as I do now almost every day after dinner; and then, after dallying
a little with Nell, which I am ashamed to think of, away to the office.  At night my wife and
I to walk and talk again about our gold, which I am not quiet in my mind to be safe, and therefore
will think of some way to remove it, it troubling me very much.  So home with my wife to supper
and to bed, miserable hot weather all night it was.

21st.  Up and by water to White Hall, there to discourse with [Sir] G. Carteret and Mr. Fenn
about office business.  I found them all aground, and no money to do anything with.  Thence
homewards, calling at my Tailor's to bespeak some coloured clothes, and thence to Hercules
Pillars, all alone, and there spent 6d. on myself, and so home and busy all the morning.  At
noon to dinner, home, where my wife shows me a letter from her father, who is going over sea,
and this afternoon would take his leave of her.  I sent him by her three Jacobuses in gold,
having real pity for him and her.  So I to my office, and there all the afternoon. Busy at
the office all the afternoon, and did much business to my great content.  In the evening sent
for home, and there I find my Lady Pen and Mrs. Lowther, and Mrs. Turner and my wife eating
some victuals, and there I sat and laughed with them a little, and so to the office again,
and in the evening walked with my wife in the garden, and did give Sir W. Pen at his lodgings
(being just come from Deptford from attending the dispatch of the fire-ships there) an account
of what passed the other day at Council touching Commissioner Pett, and so home to supper and
to bed.

22nd.  Up, and to my office, where busy, and there comes Mrs. Daniel.  .  . At the office I
all the morning busy.  At noon home to dinner, where Mr. Lewes Phillips, by invitation of my
wife, comes, he coming up to town with her in the coach this week, and she expected another
gentleman, a fellow-traveller, and I perceive the feast was for him, though she do not say
it, but by some mistake he come not, so there was a good dinner lost. Here we had the two Mercers,
and pretty merry.  Much talk with Mr. Phillips about country business, among others that there
is no way for me to purchase any severall lands in Brampton, or making any severall that is
not so, without much trouble and cost, and, it may be, not do it neither, so that there is
no more ground to be laid to our Brampton house.  After dinner I left them, and to the office,
and thence to Sir W. Pen's, there to talk with Mrs. Lowther, and by and by we hearing Mercer
and my boy singing at my house, making exceeding good musique, to the joy of my heart, that
I should be the master of it, I took her to my office and there merry a while, and then I left
them, and at the office busy all the afternoon, and sleepy after a great dinner.  He tells
me that it is most manifest that one great thing making it impossible for us to have set out
a fleete this year, if we could have done it for money or stores, was the liberty given the
beginning of the year for the setting out of merchant-men, which did take up, as is said, above
ten, if not fifteen thousand seamen: and this the other day Captain Cocke tells me appears
in the council-books, that is the number of seamen required to man the merchant ships that
had passes to go abroad.  By and by, my wife being here, they sat down and eat a bit of their
nasty victuals, and so parted and we to bed.

23rd (Lord's day). 

Abdallah went.

Chapter Four.

Selim was in deep thought, as Abdallah came in to him, he noticed his son and was on. I have
sent for you, "he said to you to announce important news, has Omar
you not told?

Nothing answered, Abdallah - but the name you've known, my father remembers me a request, tell
me who is this Omar?

And how You come so suddenly on the question, asked Selim, you know him for so long and it never
occurred to you to be informed in more detail from him.

This Omar, Abdallah said, my second father, for you I love him the most, perhaps, if I am to
be honest, I have between you and him all my love equally distributed. - So far down as my memory
in the past, just as long as I am also aware that Omar and he was the playmate of my childhood
and is the teacher my youth, a boy could I me God never help but think and think Omar is now
" he gave me a picture of wisdom. Everything I think and I know I have drawn from it - without
his love I could not be happy. - He is known to me as my own Figure, his mind is so familiar to
my soul, I nestle so childish of him, all his features have I so often regarded and deeply influenced
in my soul - only yesterday evening It was a magical night in which my imagination more raised
than usual - or was it the empty sober awakening from a slumber, find us at once in the countryside
one hundred convoluted structure to face; when I went through the
woods with Omar went back to town, suddenly kicked me in the strange
feeling as if a strange man going to my site - I was a hundred times
about to draw my hand from his, I did not dare him to see, the uncertain
light of the night flew around him and blocked all of its known Trains
- I was torn out of myself - I followed him with a shudder.

Selim. In the years when the imagination is our nurse, play thousands enthusiasms and deceptive
feelings melt away around us, the resort when we return to them in our air and Spirit to a sluggish,
that lead-free tranquility.

The male youth must all these childish fancies reject with a serious
look, undisturbed on its path further go and this morning mists give
not even a discarded eye.

Abdallah. Since yesterday, but the idea worries me. Tell me who is this Omar?

I will tell you everything I know about him, replied Selim; you have it until now "as your teacher
and friend loved, you will now honor him as your benefactor. - Ali, like a consuming fire
in the body of his country's raging against the thousand curses of widows and orphans floating
restlessly around the throne of God, Ali also had me in a thousand made miserable. I was rich
and my treasures drew his greed, he took from me everything what I possessed - only your mother
and you - next I had nothing left in this world. You were a summer ago and smiled at your mother's
breast without understanding the misery contrary. - We left the city and wandered over unknown
mountains to other areas the misery was next to us and gave us the poor food, all my friends
left me as if they had never known me, worry and poverty were our only inseparable Companion,
so we walked from town to town and lived on the meager alms to us
the compassion of the people threw. - A silent grief rummaged invisible
in the hearts of your Mother, she smiled and handed me goodbye - and
went after a few hours in their better back home.

I stayed with my misfortune in solitude.

Selim sad silent for some time, he continued:

She was buried. The earth was wet and heavy down at her, a knife cut through my Soul if you
asked with a childish smile for your mother, and knocked at the grave, heraufzulocken them again,
but your smile was the last weak band, which I then back to this world, held inviolable obligations
talked me out of your friendly Eye on, you were still alive and therefore I was the life of
something dear. I could not Remove from the area, rested in the Zamiri, her spirit seemed
to hover there, and me in the homes of my grief to hold back. - Abdallah Oh, there were sad days
- if the young Morgenroth seemed so burning rose up and trembling on my sleepless eyes, when
the golden evening moved over the mountains and the sad lonely night
with hundreds of new concerns slowly ascended, - the memory of those
days - the man must suffer much, but his Muth has never left him.

A small silence. Attention and sad Abdallah heard the story of his father, this Then he added:

I
visited the cemetery every day on which it rested, I devoutly prayed to her grave and prayed
for strength. In the deepest feelings of my misery I once sat on the grave, you game test at
ease in front of me in the deep grass, the past was friendly towards me and sat down beside
me confidentially, unmanly tears ran down my cheeks hot and fell dead on yellow flowers that bloom
on the grave. - Suddenly I saw a dervish, who approached me from the shadows of the trees.
He had visited me in my happiness often and in his presence I always felt a sacred awe, as
a silent shower breathed at me as if it blew from the spirit of the prophet. My bad luck seemed
to Grave, he said, is contrary to bloom decayed behind that hill, and a new happiness to you, move.
- I dug and found a great treasure, who replaced me more than I had taken Ali, - When I wanted
to bring my hot thanks to the dervish, 'I could see him anywhere - And this is Omar Dervish?

Abdallah.
Omar?

Selim. Your teacher Omar. - Him I owe everything I have, all I have is only a good that he has
lent me. - I sat down at the farthest limits of the empire, changed my name and called me Selim.
Here I was, Ali's cruelty and greed sure until now he has changed his residence for a year and
go here. - I was now "just as happy as I could be when, after three years, a strange Release
visited my house. Hagren a parched old man handed me his long hand, like a dead men's rattling
leg, saw the death occurred in his deep eyes, powerless staggered the skull back and forth
and his speech was only the gasp of a dying man. I alarmed at the sight of misery and take a long
time, I saw how that dead skeleton - Your Omar.

Abdallah. Omar?

Selim. I took him in as my benefactor, fed him like a father until withdrawn by his Siechheit
genaß. were returned as his health and his strength, he took friendship of my hand and said, "You
are my benefactor Selim, you saved my life and I will not be ungrateful, you have a son, he wants
to pay me what I am the father can not pay. "Thus was our benefactor,
your playmate, your teacher, your friend.

Abdallah was thinking. A new appreciation bound him tightly to Omar and was hanging on his Teach
even greater weight, his teacher was undoubted virtue, the more reliable had to be his wisdom,
and the vicious, who denies that virtue is not heard but if the noble
enough the bad guy's hand and called him brother boldly, then hesitates
the proud virtue and looks doubtful in their inner being.

You are silent, Selim began again, so now you are not eager to hear
the message that I had to announce to you?

Abdallah. Forgive my father - I hear. -

Selim.

You shall marry you.

Abdallah. Your bid is my will.

Selim. Abubeker the noble daughter.

Abdallah.

You want it and she is my wife.

Selim. This obedience I expected from you, my son. Abdallah is his father's love not repay with ingratitude.

Abdallah.
No, never my father.

Selim. You love not, my son?

Abdallah. I love only you and Omar. -

Selim. Let this child's love never go out in your breast. - Abubeker daughter - or my curse!

Selim
saw him with a piercing halberzürnenden look that Abdullah did not understand. It was a cold
solid look that is indelibly marked with the terrible curse words grub in Abdallah's memory,
this looks like a flash of lightning suddenly turned the strange Ignorance of Omar in his soul,
- when he entered.

He saw to it again and it was quite old, friendly, well-known Omar, and he went away happy and
all his anxious fears were gone.

Chapter Five.

Abubeker now "also appeared in the room with him and several of his
and Selim's friends.

Abubeker was an old man of seventy years, his face was long and gaunt, his eyes gently and his
silver-white beard fell on his venerable breast. For a long time was he died the world, without
that he or she missed him and he lived with his daughter in a domestic solitude, only known
by his friends and honored. He was in the field brought up and become an old man under the armor,
the enemy had feared his bravery and in his manhood Abubeker name was known throughout the land,
but with the services of the commander also disappears the thanks
of the people, the glory is like the fog that wraps itself apart over
the whole milieu and stretched the furthest, disappears.

In the camp and in battle Abubeker had his spirit can only make little
he thought only gradually and steadfastly insisted on each formed
an opinion, his every Convictions, he was reluctant to take a new
and put in its place: for that wherein He had once thought he seemed
the only and final truth.

Selim bewillkommte him and his companions, and all sat down.

A brief silence was staying on the Assembly, as Selim stood up at last, Abubeker hand seized
and taken as a sacred fire, which went on:

Abubeker, you are my friend and what's more, an honest man, you're the all of you are present,
and would be one among us who wore not this great feeling in his bosom, the removed himself before
I speak further, because my words are good for no ignoble ear. - But no, - the noblest men of
the State gathered here and therefore should boldly my thoughts and words are all the same way
transform. For the Biederman Biedermann must without circumlocution To speak and that fact
was the cause of my invitation.

All were silent; Selim stood and looked around in the Assembly, he continued:

Abubeker, perhaps you remember the golden days when the scepter of the wise Alfargo this country,
dominated as an everlasting peace on the frontiers of the empire controlled as a unbreakable loyalty
all subjects in a beautiful ribbon and the united arms of the prince
Was when the luck was living in our homes, as - what the beautiful
memories, friends? this Time was and is no more, the sun ray that
shakes shy of the prison walls, makes the prisoner to prison close,
this memory is to us what the lost wanderer in the stormy night the
light extinguished.

We were happy to jump from the thought the sad conviction that we are unhappy! - Like the
storm, the air hangs heavy and pressured over our country, the workers have left fearful hide
the field and in caves, the grass trembles softly the coming storm, all nature breathes heavily
and waiting with anxious impatience the collapsing weather. - This is the image of our country,
Friends, smiles, no face, that shines as the foolish children, no eye, as the Eye of the dying,
no joy laughing sad heart - sad, with drooping Head, absorbed in
ourselves, by any sense out of our cheerful black dreams awakened,
stand, we rely on a sharp, meerumheulten cliff and sue in the wild
noise the lake. - And why our tears, hanging as heavy in the red with
weeping eyes songs?

Why suppressed sighs swell our hearts so high? - Are the gentle fields around us Deserts of sand
now? Brings out the sun no longer her coat on this realm? Depends a consuming disease over
our heads? Our friends are different? -

Oh yes, our friends are different, a plague wild looks down on us,
the sun is We went down and the flower of our corridors is gone!

A lovely morning Roth played in the cheerful sound of the waves around us, the tide falls back
and our boat is on a dry rocky ground in brackets. - Fortune has served us his hand to eternal
farewell and we see displeasure to his departure. - And consoles us because of our no substitute
Loss and we are not even eager, to learn the cause of our misery?

O all-good to let your actions do not penetrate, for he is not angry, the generous nature has
no bare hand is stretched out over us. - But what about human violence constricted our hearts so powerfully
together? Anyone who proposes this darkening vault around us? - O that I must say it schaamroth,
- a stranger would mock amazement our weakness, - A man!

Him carry our fields, it flows back as a greedy sea, all our work, we live only for him, for the only
one fight in all our useless armed forces. - Him have you, the ungrateful, your battles fought, Abubeker,
it is the plague that the country consumed behind his throne is our sun has, in his terrible
omnipotence is the death of all of our friends. - Life and death he has to distort the balance,
his moods swaying our happiness depends, storm thundering from his angry eyes, the smile of
his mouth is our refreshing spring sunshine, his words of eternal
immutable Laws - we stand there and feel that we are miserable, and
o the shame! - We content us so that we feel it!

Are we all so deeply sunk in weakness that we do not even complain too? Have we become so strange
that we do not even change our fate? That we are content with what he throws us back from the
devastation and look forward to the grace which we still under the rubble of our previous
home convert granted? The wounded snake enraged the heel of her killer, the innocent dove struggling
helplessly against the destroyer their nest, so the worm writhes in anger trampled under the foot of
the traveler - and we! - Who is the indecency that was not ashamed
of the chains and they liked his Poor brushing? - Would it go and
tell my speech, Ali!

Slave and free citizens are equal in our time, the kingdom has only one free, we are all his slaves,
the country and its people have perished in the One, our wishes kneel before his will, the high
right that every person brings to the world we have squandered on these scammers. Our existence,
we can not call life, we are dead masses without own will, stones,
a wanton boy to play work in the evening throws it into the sea. -
- And who is this Noble?

A giant with brazen body of the broken any steel rebounds? - No, a collection of dust, like
us, uplifted by a Arm plunged to the ground forever.

Where is the courage of our fathers fought in and shake the enemy doing? If all the daggers dull?
Is no one who takes up arms and avenge himself and his brothers? No one? - Oh, I was wrong, I
forgot that I live jetzo here, now, where slavery intact, where our greatest wish is the most
shameful of his slaves. - The time has its circle made and taken away all that is noble in our
years, she has only me unhappy lonely leave.

He was silent. - The men were glowing, the arms of young men twitched involuntarily. In many
Eye was the tear of high enthusiasm, many wanted to jump up and wave their daggers, as the wise
Abubeker slow deliberate voice that is saying:

Selim, your voice is the voice of truth, the kingdom is unfortunate, there is tyranny violence
with fraudulently obtained from her throne, the people groaning under the iron tiefgebückt
Yoke - but hear me as a friend and be angry. - I'm on a high peak, which I see on so many
years, which are spread at my feet, age and the experience comes at last to the place of wisdom.
- Have you never, Selim, a flood seen the devastating floods the plains, and fertilized and
fertile leaves again? One tribe, the burning of the flash and a more beautiful from the ashes
with renewed vigor shoot out? - In the current evil is often the birth of a future happiness,
only that the mortal eye does not penetrate the darkness of the future, that our little eye only
includes what is before us, not what is often close by. - Already sent many nations the Lord
to chastise an iron scepter and many already knew the ameliorating
hand. - Ali is perhaps only the messenger of a higher power, the war
on us from there announced: we can get up rebellious against the Lord
and his wise master plan and discard?

It behooves the slave, to draw his master to account? - About servant listen to accomplish the commandment
of the infinite and the orders of his wrath. It may only wave, and Ali is pierced by lightning,
storm-torn.

He over the earth from their to raise fishing, and discontent with the breath of his mouth against
the limits of the universe to , Dash - and it should not send down
a dust to dust again, if it be Will be? - No, we do not tolerate,
Selim, and show our great soul in patience.

Revenge only roars from the animals, humans endure and forgive! -

O
old man! cried Selim, the age that consumed all our forces, speaks
of you.

Of hours you have to live, you are too few to act for them - but our children; Abubeker!

Abubeker. She does not wake on the big eye that never closes? - Let
her virtue and worship God and they can not be miserable.

Selim turned
away angrily and Omar began to speak:

You spoke with great wisdom,
Abubeker, the hand draws from the clouds often seen the fates the
people, the dark fate is often out of his darkness, and even forces
the boldest skeptic to shuddering admiration.  But I staid vexed in my closet till by and by my cozen Thomas
Pepys, of Hatcham, come to see me, and he up to my closet, and there sat talking an hour or
two of the sad state of the times, whereof we did talk very freely, and he thinks nothing but
a union of religious interests will ever settle us; and I do think that, and the Parliament's
taking the whole management of things into their hands, and severe inquisitions into our miscarriages;
will help us. After we had bewailed ourselves and the kingdom very freely one to another (wherein
I do blame myself for my freedom of speech to anybody), he gone, and Coleman gone also before,
I to the office, whither Creed come by my desire, and he and I to my wife, to whom I now propose
the going to Chatham, who, mightily pleased with it, sent for Mercer to go with her, but she
could not go, having friends at home, which vexed my wife and me; and the poor wretch would
have had anybody else to have gone, but I would like nobody else, so was contented to stay
at home, on condition to go to Ispsum next Sunday, which I will do, and so I to the office
to dispatch my business, and then home to supper with Creed, and then Creed and I together
to bed, very pleasant in discourse. Sometimes he kept it and it
moved when a steep point came. But it all went well, and now they were above, with high jumps
and the goats ran down to the green bushes, for they knew the good food that they had already several
times here gnawed up.

"Only tame! Tame Only!" Moni warned, "and do not jostle each other on the steep places, it could
easily crash and would have broken one of his legs. Swallow! Swallow! What is the next you be
thinking? "he cried excitedly. For the nimble goat was about the high Dragons climbed rocks, was
now on the extreme edge of a stone and looked because of very curious to put it down. He scrambled
up quickly, for only a single Occurs, and the swallow was the bottom of the abyss. Moni was very
nimble, had a few minutes He climbed the stone and with a quick shift of the swallow in the leg and captured
withdrawn. "You come with me now, you little animal you unreasonable" switching, Moni and pulled
the swallow with is down to the other. He was still holding down a little while, until they
no more to 'm Running away.

"Where is the Maggerli?"

Moni suddenly shouted, who saw the black, as they alone in a steep location up and ate nothing
but quietly looked around. Was always the young little kid next to Moni, or it was for his mother.

"Where
did you get your kid, blacks?" he exclaimed frightened, and jumped on to the goat. You was very
strange, not ate, was always in the same place and are pointed suspicious ears. Moni stood close beside
her and looked up and down. Now he heard a low, whining bleating. That was Maeggerlis voice, she
came up from below, so miserably and imploringly. Moni lay on the floor and leaned forward. Moved
down there something.

Now he saw it clearly, far below the Maggerli hanging from a branch, from the rock came out, and
whined for mercy. It must have fallen down.

Luckily the road had stopped there, otherwise it would have to fall into the abyss. But even now
when it could no longer hold on to the road, it had on the Point plummet and break his neck.
In great alarm, he called down: "Hold on, Maggerli, hold firmly to the road! Look, I'm coming
and get you!" But how should he get there? The cliff was so steep here, impossible to come
down because he could, Moni saw a well. But the kid had down there at about the height of the
rain rocks be the overhanging rock, under which one could flee to the rain as well. There
brought the boys to always Geiss their days in bad weather, so called:
Rock already from ancient times the rain rocks.

From there, thought Monica, he was able to cross about the rock climbing and so come back with
the kids.

He quickly whistled the herd together and went with her down to the point where the Rain rocks went
inside. Since he left them graze and went to the rock. Here he saw the same, still quite a bit
about yourself, the road to which clung to the little kid. He saw
that It is not easy to climb up there and get on with the Maggerli
on his back down. But unlike the little creatures could not be saved.
He also thought of God he would certainly assist, then it might succeed
him.

     ["The bottom of the 'Royal James' is got afloat, and those of the
     'Loyal London' and 'Royal Oak' soon will be so. 

Moni Once arrived, he took his little bag of food back and laid him in a small cave of the soil,
which he himself had dug for it. Then he stepped on the rock pulpit out and threw himself on the ground
to leave to have it so very well.

The sky was now dark blue. Over There was the high mountains with the sky protruding teeth
and large ice fields have come to light, well-lit and bottom the green valley in the morning glory.
Moni lay there, looking about, sang and whistled. The mountain wind cools his warm face, and
heard it once on whistle, so the birds whistled over him much fun, and flew up into the blue sky.
The monitor itself felt indescribably well. From time to time Maggerli came to him and ran
a little over his head Moni's shoulder as the goat had always done. Then it bleated quite
lovely, went to the other side of Moni and stroked her head over his shoulder. From the other
Goats was now this, now that, to look after the shepherd, and each had their own Way to show
him her tenderness.

The brown, his own goat, came to him and looked to see if everything ok with him was. Then she stood
and looked at him until he said, "Yes, yes, Braunli, it's all right, just go back to the food.
"A goat was called the swallow because it was so small and nimble everywhere inside and fired,
like the swallows in their holes. They jumped so impetuously on Moni the matter, that they would
have probably upset him, he would be located not already on the ground.

A moment later she ran away again.

The glossy black, the goat of the host in the bathhouse, Maeggerlis mother was a little proud.
They came up just a few steps away, looking with his head to the Moni out when she wanted
to show not to be confidential and then went their separate ways. The great Sultan, however, the buck,
was only once and then press it all away, he met in the near Monis.
Then he bleated a few times as significant as having releases leave
on the condition of the herd, as their leader he felt.  But I do not see that he
hath any command over the seamen, he being affronted by three or four seamen before my very
face, which he took sillily, methought; and is not able to do so much good as a good boatswain
in this business.  My Lord Bruncker, I perceive, do endeavour to speak well of Commissioner
Pett, saying that he did exercise great care and pains while he was there, but do not undertake
to answer for his not carrying up of the great ships. 

Only the small left Maggerli never suppress what of his protector. If the buck came and wanted
to push away there, so it crawled so deep under Moni's arm or head, that the great Sultan did
not dare to come closer. In Monis protection was afraid the kids also not a bit more before
the Sultan, before it shook else when it came near him.

Thus, the sunny morning had passed. Moni had already eaten his lunch and was Having regard
now thoughtfully on his stick, he took up here more often. For he it was the rise and fall
of great help. He wondered whether he has a new side of the wanted to climb rocks. For on that
afternoon, he wanted to go up higher with the goats, the only question
was on which side? And so he carried the little animal, the hold of him
pressed down the whole way.

Paula was now on the last hill before the bath house and waited for the goat boy. Also her aunt
had accompanied her. So when Monica came up with his load on his back, wanted Paula know if the
kid was sick, and showed great participation. Seeing the Moni sat He is right on the floor
in front of Paula back and told her his present experience with the
Maggerli.

The young lady was very lively interest in the matter and stroked
the little animal rescued. Now it was quiet on Monis knees and looked
very delicate with his white feet and the beautiful black Fuzzies
over the back. It might be quite happy to stroke a little. I Mother
had been granted to me even closed eyes, had a few weeks ago I now also lost his father, and
at the time no matter how lengthy journeys, I had him not even able to accompany his resting
place.