This file is encoded using the ASCII character set.

The text in this file contains a number of characters not contained in the standard ASCII character
set. I forgot everything; and, indeed, I have been up in the Moon. As soon as these few words
of thanks are given, I am going up into the Moon again.

    What a comfort it is to read a scientific work which is quite
    clear, and what a gift it is to write thus!
    

    "The photographs took my breath away. I could not understand how
    you did them, and your explanation of how you built the models from
    your drawings only changed the wonder into admiration.

Only an artist could have said what you say about the education of
the eye and of the hand.

       You may well understand how it went home to me.

Ever gratefully yours, PHILIP H. CALDERON."

I now proceed to the Cardinal.

I was present at one of the receptions of the President of the Royal
Society at Burlington House, when I was introduced to Cardinal Manning
as "The Steam Hammer!"

After a cordial reception he suddenly said, "But are you not also the
Man in the Moon?" Yes, your Eminence. I have written a book about the
Moon, and I shall be glad if you will accept a copy of it?

"" By all means, "he said," and I thank you for the offer very much.
"I accordingly sent the copy, and received the following answer:"
MY DEAR MR. NASMYTH-- When I asked you to send me your book on the
Moon, I had no idea of its bulk and value, and I feel ashamed of my
importunity, yet more than half delighted at my sturdy begging.

"I thank you for it very sincerely.

My life is one of endless work, leaving me few moments for reading.
But such books as yours refresh me like a clover field."

I hope I may have an opportunity of renewing our conversation.

Believe me always truly yours, HENRY, CARDINAL MANNING.

"I
may also mention that I received a charming letter from Miss Herschel,
the daughter of the late Astronomer." Is it possible, "she said," that this
beautiful book is destined by you as a gift to my most unworthy self?

I do not know, indeed, how sufficiently to thank you, or even to
express my delight in being possessed of so exquisite and valuable
a work, made so valuable, too, by the most kind inscription on the
first page!

I fear I shall be very very far from understanding the theories developed
in the book, though we have been endeavouring to gather some faint
notion of them from the reviews we have seen; but it will be of the
greatest interest for us to try and follow them under your guidance,
and with the help of these perfectly enchanting photographs, which,
I think, one could never be tired of looking at.

"How well I remember the original photographs, and the oil painting
which you sent for dear papa's inspection, and which he did so enjoy!
and also the experiment with the glass globe, in which he was so interested,
at your own house.

We cannot but think how he would have appreciated your researches,
and what pleasure this lovely book would have given him.

       Indeed, I shall treasure it especially as a remembrance of that visit,
which is so completely connected in my thoughts with him, as well
as with your cordial kindness, as a precious souvenir, of which let
me once more offer you my heartfelt thanks.

I remain, my dear sir, yours very truly and gratefully," ISABELLA HERSCHEL. "I cannot refrain from
adding the communication I received from my dear old friend William
Lassell."

I do not know, "he said," how sufficiently to thank you for your most kind letter, and the superb
present which almost immediately followed it. My pleasure was greatly enhanced by the consideration
of how far this splendid work must add to your fame and gratify the scientific world. The
illustrations are magnificent, and I am persuaded that no book has ever been published before which
gives so faithful, accurate, and comprehensive a picture of the surface
of the Moon. The work must have cost you much time, thought, and labour,
and I doubt not you will now receive a gratifying, if not an adequate
reward. "After reading the book Mr. Lassell again wrote to me." I am indebted
to your beautiful book, "he said," for a deeper interest in the Moon
than I ever felt before.... I see many of your pictures have been
taken when the Moon was waning, which tells me of many a shivering
exposure you must have had in the early mornings,... I was sorry to
find from your letter that you had a severe cold, which made you very
unwell.

I hope you have ere this perfectly recovered. I suppose maladies of this kind must be expected to
take rather severe hold of us now, as we are both past the meridian of life. I am, however, very
thankful for the measure of health I enjoy, and the pleasure mechanical pursuits give me. I fully
sympathise with you in the contempt (shall I say?) which you feel for the taste of so many people
who find their chief pleasure in'killing something,'and how often their
pleasures are fatal!

One of them, a grey-haired, deeply-bronzed man of sixty, with his neck and hands tatooed in
strange markings, imprinted thereon by the hands of the wild natives of Tucopia, in the South
Seas, with whom he has lived forty years before as one of themselves, is mine own particular
friend and crony, for his two sons have been playmates with my brothers and myself, who were
all born in this quaint old-time seaport of the first colony in Australia; this forgotten remnant
of the dread days of the awful convict system, when the clank of horrible gyves sounded on
the now deserted and grass-grown streets, and the swish of the hateful and ever active "cat"
was heard within the walls of the huge red-brick prison on the bluff facing the sea. Oh, the
old, old memories of those hideous times! How little they wounded or troubled our boyish minds,
as we, bent on some fishing or hunting venture along the coast, walked along a road which had
been first soddened by tears and then dried by the panting, anguished breathings of beings
fashioned in the image of their Creator, as they toiled and died under the brutal hands of
their savage task-masters--the civilian officials of that cruel "System" which, by the irony
of fate, the far-seeing, gentle, and tender-hearted Arthur Phillip, the founder of Australia,
was first appointed to administer.

But away with such memories for the moment. Over the lee side with them into the Sea of the
Past, together with the clank of the fetters and the hum of the cat and the merciless laws
of the time; sink them all together with the names of the military rum-selling traducers of
the good Phillip, and of ill-tempered, passionate sailor Bligh of the Bounty--honest, brave,
irascible, vindictive; destroyer of his ship's company on that fateful adventure to Tahiti,
hero of the most famous boat-voyage the world has ever known; sea-bully and petty "hazer" of
hapless Fletcher Christian and his comrades, gallant officer in battle and thanked by Nelson
at Copenhagen; conscientious governor of a starveling colony gasping under the hands of unscrupulous
military money-makers, William Bligh deserves to be remembered by all men of English blood
who are proud of the annals of the most glorious navy in the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

But ere we descend to the beach to wander by rock and pool in this glowing Australian sun,
the warm, loving rays of which are fast drying the frost-coated grass, let us look at these
square, old-time monuments to the dead, placed on the Barrack Hill, and overlooking the sea.
There are four in all, but around them are many low, sunken headstones of lichen-covered slabs,
the inscriptions on which, like many of those on the stones in the cemetery by the reedy creek,
have long since vanished.

There, indeed, if you care to brave the snake-haunted place you will discover a word, or the
part of a word--"Talav----," "Torre----Vedras," "Vimiera," or "Badaj----," or "Fuentes de On----,"
and you know that underneath lies the dust of men who served their country well when the Iron
Duke was rescuing Europe from the grip of the bloodstained Corsican. On one, which for seventy
years has faced the rising sun and the salty breath of the ocean breeze, there remains but
the one glorious word, "Aboukir!" every indented letter thickly filled with grey moss and lichen,
though the name of he who fought there has disappeared, and being but that of some humble seaman,
is unrecorded and unknown in the annals of his country. How strange it seems! but yet how fitting
that this one word alone should be preserved by loving Nature from the decaying touch of Time.
Perhaps the very hand of the convict mason who held the chisel to the stone struck deeper as
he carved the letters of the name of the glorious victory.

But let us away from here; for in the hot summer months amid these neglected and decaying memorials
of the dead, creeping and crawling in and out of the crumbling masonry of the tombs, gliding
among the long, reedy grass, or lying basking in the sun upon the fallen headstones, are deadly
black and brown snakes. They have made this old, time-forgotten cemetery their own favourite
haunting place; for the waters of the creek are near, and on its margin they find their prey.
Once, so the shaky old wharfinger will tell you, a naval lieutenant, who had been badly wounded
in the first Maori war, died in the commandant's house. M. Marcet's experiments upon vegetable
poisons are no less interesting, and still more wonderful, as indicating a degree of irritability
in plants somewhat similar to that which depends on the nervous system in animals. After having
ascertained that the bean plants could exist in a healthy state for
five or six days, if immersed in the same quantity of spring water,
he tried them with five or six grains of opium dissolved in an ounce
of water, the consequence of which was, that in the evening the leaves
had dropped, and, by the middle of next day, they were dead beyond
recovery.

Other vegetable poisons of the narcotic class produced a similar effect. Hemlock was equally fatal,
and six grains of dry powdered foxglove, in an ounce of water, began
to operate, by wrinkling some of the leaves of the bean in a few moments,
which it completely killed in twenty-four hours.

      Oxalic acid or salt of
           sorrel, though
    found in common and wood sorrel,
       and a great many plants,
       proved a very fatal poison
to others. The absorption of one-tenth
    of a grain, killed a rose branch
   and flower in forty-- eight hours.-- Quar.

Jour.
       of Agriculture.***** NOTES OF A READER***** KNOWING PEOPLE.

How
         happily do these few lines characterize a certain set of people who
pick up news from "good authority," and settle the fate of the nation
over strong potations of brandy and water, or Calvert's porter, forgetting
that "people who drink beer, think beer."
          

Suppose a question of great public interest afloat:-- "Reports are
abroad, precisely of the proper pitch of absurdity, for the greedy
swallowing of the great grey-goggle-eyed public, who may be seen standing
with her mouth wide open like a crocodile, with her hands in her breeches-pockets,
at the crosses of cities on market-days, gluttonously devouring whatever
rumour flings into her maw-- nor in the least aware that she is all
the time eating wind.

People of smallish abilities begin to look wiser and wiser every
day-- their nods seem more significant-- in the shaking of their heads
there is more of Burleigh-- and in short sentences-- that sound like
apophthegms-- they are apt to impose themselves on their credulous
selves as so many Solomons."***** NEW CHURCHES.

Among the numerous sermons lately preached in pursuance of the King's
letter for the enlargement and building of churches and chapels, we
notice one by the vicar of Dorking, in Surrey, from which we extract
the following:-- "In many places of this country it is lamentable
to behold the ruinous state of churches.

If a man's dwelling-house be decayed, he will never cease till it be
restored; if his barn, where he bestows all his fruits and his goods,
be out of repair, what diligence doth he use to make it perfect? If the
stable for his horse, or the sty for his swine, be not able to exclude
the severity of weather, when the rains fall, and the winds blow,
how careful is he to incur the necessary cost?

       Shall we then be so mindful of our common houses, deputed to such
low occupations, and be forgetful toward that house of God, in which
are expounded the words of our eternal salvation-- in which are administered
the sacraments and mysteries of our redemption?"-- The persuasiveness of this argument
is admirable, and its amiable tone and temper are infinitely more suitable
than the florid appeal. We also learn that Parliament has already
voted a million and a half of money to the sole use of building churches,
and that in the diocese in which Dorking is situated, thirty-two cases
have been aided by the sum of 6,230 l. But the church of Dorking is
in a dilapidated state, and is capable of containing only one-fifth
of the inhabitants.

It was "probably erected about the commencement of the twelfth century; and the crumbling walls may almost
be said to totter under the massive roof." This calls forth the following pious exhortation:
"Our lot is cast in a pleasant place.

Let
us manifest our thankfulness to the Giver of every good gift by a
structure dedicated to his service, corresponding with the magnificence
of private mansions, and the natural beauties of local scenery."

We can only wonder that, in a neighbourhood abounding with men of
rank and opulence, such an appeal is necessary.***** SHORT-HAND.

"Sound is the gauge of short-hand, and connexion the master-key for deciphering." Such is one of
the axioms in Mr. Harding's eighth edition of his very valuable
little "System of Short-Hand,"-- to which, by way of pleasant illustration,
he appends, the "Dirge on Miss LN G," copied by us from the "New Monthly
Magazine;" but we give Mr. H. credit for the present application.

We could write a whole number of the MIRROR on the advantages of short-hand to the community;
but as that would not be a practical illustration, we desist. Only think of the "Times" newspaper being
scores of miles from town before half London has risen; and the Duke of Bedford, reading the previous
night's debates at his breakfast table at Woburn Abbey. What would all Mr. Applegath's machinery
do towards producing the newspaper without the aid of short-hand, which makes its expedition
second only to thought. Half an hour's delay of "the paper" makes
us fret and fume and condemn the fair provider of our breakfast-- for over-roasted
coffee and stale eggs-- all because the paper is not "come;" but when
would it come without short-hand? why at dinner-time, and that would
make short work of a day-- for thousands cannot set to work till
they have consulted it as a mainspring of action.

People who aim at the short cuts to knowledge should study stenography, and for this purpose
they will do well to provide themselves with Mr. Harding's System, which will be as good as "a cubit
to a man's height."***** LOVE'S MASTERY.

She was his own, his all:-- the crowd may prove A transient feeling, and misname it love:-- His
was a higher impulse;'twas a part Of the warm blood that circled through his heart, A fervid energy,
a spell that bound Thoughts, wishes, feelings, in one hallow'd round.
The Winter's Wreath.***** CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

The second edition of a pamphlet, entitled the Voice of Humanity, has just reached us. It contains details
of the disgusting cruelties of the metropolis-- as bear and badger baiting, dog-fighting, slaughtering-horses,&
c.-- and reference to the abattoirs, or improved slaughter-houses for cattle, which was illustrated
in our 296th Number. In the appendix are many interesting particulars of Smithfield Market and
similar nuisances.

The pamphlet is dedicated to that enlightened friend of humanity,
Sir James Mackintosh, and it appears worthy of his patronage.*****
WOMANKIND.

The womankind never looks sae bonnie as in wunter, accepp indeed
it may be in spring.

You auld bachelors ken naething o'womankind-- and hoo should ye, when they treat you wi'but ae feelin',
that o'derision? Oh, sirs! but the dear creters do look weel in muffs-- whether they haud them, wi'their
invisible hauns clasped thegither in their beauty within the cozy silk linin', close prest to their
innicent waists, just aneath the glad beatins o'their first love-touched hearts. Or haud them hingin'frae
their extended richt arms, leavin'a'the feegur visible, that seems taller and slimmer as the removed
muff reveals the clasps o'the pelisse a'the way doon frae neck till feet! Then is there, in
a'the beautifu'and silent unfauldin's o'natur amang plants and flowers, ony thing sae beautifu'as
the white, smooth, saft chafts o'a bit smilin'maiden o'saxteen, aughteen, or twunty, blossomin'out,
like some bonnie bud or snaw-white satin frae a coverin'o'rough leaves,-- blossomin'out, sirs, frae
the edge o'the fur-tippet, that haply a lover's happy haun had delicately
hung ower her gracefu'shoothers-- oh, the dear, delightfu'little Laplander!--
Noctes-- Blackwood's Magazine.***** CAPTAIN ROCK.

There are few of our readers who need to be informed that Captain Rock's Letters to the King are
certainly not written by Mr. Moore, to whom, while the publication was suspended, they were so positively
ascribed.-- Q. Rev.***** THE LIBRARY AT HOLKHAM. The manuscripts of Lord Coke are in the
possession of his descendant, Mr. Coke, of Norfolk, his representative through the female issue
of Lord Leicester, the male heir of the chief justice. At this gentleman's princely mansion of Holkham,
is one of the finest collections, or, indeed, libraries of manuscripts anywhere preserved; certainly
the finest in any private individual's possession.

It partly consists of the chief justice's papers; the rest, and the
bulk of it, was collected by that accomplished nobleman who built
the mansion, the last male heir of the great lawyer.

He had spent many years abroad, where his taste was improved and
his general education perfected.

He collected a vast number of the most valuable manuscripts. Of these the exquisitely illuminated
missals, and other writings of a similar description, which would from their perfect beauty
and great rarity bear the highest price in the market, are certainly
by far the least precious in the eyes of literary men.

Many of the finest codices of the Greek, Latin, and old Italian classics
are to be found in this superb collection.

Among others are no less than thirteen of Livy, a favourite author
of Lord Leicester, whom he had made some progress in editing, when
he learnt that Drakenborchius, the well known German critic, had proceeded
further in the same task, and generously handed over to him the treasures
of his library.

The excellent edition of that commentator makes constant reference
to the Holkham manuscripts, under the name of MSS.

Lovelliana, from the title of Lovell; Lord Leicester not having then
been promoted to the earldom.

Mr. Coke, with a becoming respect for the valuable collection of his ancestors, was desirous to have the manuscripts
unfolded, bound, and arranged, both with a view to their preservation and to the facility of consulting
them. They had lain for half a century neglected, and in part verging towards decay, when he
engaged his valued friend, William Roscoe, to undertake the labour so congenial to his taste
and habits, of securing these treasures from the ravages of time.

From the great number of the manuscripts, the state in which many
of them were, and the distance of Mr. Roscoe's residence, this was
necessarily a work of time.

After above ten years employed on it, the task is now finished.

Each work is beautifully and classically bound; and to each Mr. Roscoe has prefixed, in his own
fair hand writing, a short account of the particular manuscript, with the bibliographical learning
appertaining to it.-- Library of Useful Knowledge.***** PHRENOLOGY. Mr. Crook, of the Phrenological
Society, has just published a "Compendium of Phrenology," which cannot fail to be acceptable
to the ingenious inquirers after that very ingenious science. It is a
lucid little arrangement of principles, and will materially assist
them; but, for our part, we confess we would sooner take the public
opinion of the contents of our cranium than that of a whole society
of phrenologists; and if our head be as full as our sheet, we shall
be content.

But, joking apart, the little synopsis before us cannot be too highly recommended; and by way
of hint to some friends who send us witty articles for "the Gatherer," we take the following:--
"Wit. Primitive Power. Perception of the disjunction or incongruity of ideas; the analytical faculty.
Uses: Separation of compound or general ideas into those that are elementary or more simple; knowledge
of characteristic differences and discrepance. Abuses: A disposition to jest or ridicule; irony,
sarcasm, and satire, without respect to truth, or the circumstances of person, place, or time.
Organ, on the other side of Causality." It is not the definition of Wit, but the function of a
particular portion of the brain at which I aim.

Dr. Spurzheim, in some of his works, calls the faculty connected
with this organ,'the feeling of the ludicrous;'in his later ones,'Gayness,'and'Mirthfulness.'But
each of these is properly an effect, not a primitive power.

The ludicrous owes its origin to the contrariety between the parts
or means, as perceived by this faculty, and the general whole, or
purpose, perceived by Comparison, or the necessary connexion perceived
by Causality; and Gaiety, Mirth, and Laughter, arise from the mutual
influence and reaction of the feelings.

Some kinds of contrariety or incongruity excite one class of feelings, other kinds altogether
different feelings; and consequently, according to the faculty or combination of faculties affected, the kinds
of mirth and laughter are varied from the Sardonic grin of Destructiveness
to the lover's smile.

This view of the origin of laughter enables us to give a satisfactory
answer to the hitherto perplexing question,'Why is man the only laughing
animal?'"***** EPIGRAM From the Greek Anthology, (Author unknown.)
BY THE REV. W. SHEPHERD.

If at the bottom of the cask, Be left of wine a little flask, It
soon grows acid:-- so when man, Living through Life's most lengthened
span.

His joys all drain'd or turn'd to tears, Sinks to the lees of fourscore years, And sees approach
Death's darksome hour-- No wonder if he's somewhat sour! The Winter's Wreath.***** PORTRAIT PAINTING.
The good portrait painter always flatters; for it is his business, not, indeed, to alter and amend
features, complexion, or mien, but to select and fix (which it demands genius and sense to do)
the best appearance which these ever do wear. Happy the creature of sense and passion who has always
with him that self which he could take pleasure in contemplating! Happy-- to pass graver considerations--
the fair one whose countenance continues as youthful as her attire! He who has" neither done things
worthy to be written, nor written things worthy to be read, "takes the trouble of transmitting his portrait
to posterity to very little purpose. If the picture be a bad one, it will soon find its way
to the garret; if good, as a work of art, it will perpetuate the fame, probably the name, indeed,
of the artist alone. These are the obscurorum virorum imagines which, as Walpole said," are christened
commonly in galleries, like children at the Foundling Hospital, by
chance "-- Q. Rev.***** LOSING A SHOE AND A DINNER.

       As Ozias Linley, Sheridan's brother-in-law, was one morning setting
out on horseback for his curacy, a few miles from Norwich, his horse
threw off one of his shoes. A lady, who observed the accident, thought it
might impede Mr. Linley's journey, and seeing that he himself was unconscious
of it, politely reminded him that one of his horse's shoes had just
come off."

Thank you, madam, "replied Linley;" will you then have the goodness to put it on for me? "Linley
one day received a card to dine with the late archbishop of Canterbury, who was then bishop of Norwich. Careless
into what hole or corner he threw his invitations, he soon lost sight of the card, and forgot it
altogether. A year revolved, when, on wiping the dust from some papers he had stuck on the glass
over the chimney, the bishop's invitation for a certain day in the month (he did not think of the
year one instant,) stared him full in the face, and taking it for granted that it was a recent one,
he dressed himself on the appointed day, and proceeded to the palace. But his diocesan was not
in London, a circumstance of which, though a matter of some notoriety to the clergy of the diocese,
he was quite unconscious; and he returned dinnerless home.***** SENTIMENT AND APPETITE. We remember
an amiable enthusiast, a worshiper of nature after the manner of Rousseau, who, being melted into feelings
of universal philanthropy by the softness and serenity of a spring morning, resolved, that for that
day, at least, no injured animal should pollute his board; and having
recorded his vow, walked six miles to gain a hamlet, famous for fish
dinners, where, without an idea of breaking his sentimental engagement,
he regaled himself on a small matter of crimped cod and oyster sauce--
Q. Rev.***** FORTIFICATION.

The walls of Tenchira, in Africa, form one of the most perfect remaining
specimens of ancient fortification.

They are a mile and a half in circuit, defended by 26 quadrangular
towers, and admitting no entrance but by two opposite gates.*****
MEDIOCRITY, in poetry, is intolerable to gods and to booksellers,
and to all intermediate beings.***** SONNET TO THE CAMELLA JAPONICA.

BY W. ROSCOE, ESQ. Say, what impels me, pure and spotless flower, To view thee with a secret sympathy?--
Is there some living spirit shrined in thee? That, as thou bloom'st within my humble bower, Endows
thee with some strange, mysterious power, Waking high thoughts?-- As there perchance might
be Some angel-form of truth and purity, Whose hallowed presence shared my lonely hour?-- Yes, lovely
flower,'tis not thy virgin glow, Thy petals whiter than descending snow, Nor all the charms thy velvet
folds display;'Tis the soft image of some beaming mind, By grace adorn'd, by elegance refin'd,
That o'er my heart thus holds its silent sway. The Winter's Wreath.*****
PIGS.

One day
when Giotto, the painter, was taking his Sunday walk, in his best
attire, with a party of friends, at Florence, and was in the midst
of a long story, some pigs passed suddenly by, and one of them, running
between the painter's legs, threw him down.

When he got on his legs again, instead of swearing a terrible oath at the pig on the Lord's day,
as a graver man might have done, he observed, laughing," People say these beasts are stupid, but they seem
to me to have some sense of justice, for I have earned several thousands of crowns with their
bristles, but I never gave one of them even a ladleful of soup in my life. "-- Lanzi.***** TURKISH FIREMEN.
The firemen of Constantinople are accused of sometimes discharging
oil from their engines instead of water.***** SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC
JOURNALS.***** FLIES.

Cruelty to animals is a subject which has deservedly attracted parliamentary investigation. It is
not beneath the dignity of a Christian legislator to prevent the unnecessary sufferings of the
meanest of created things; and a law which is dictated by humanity can surely be no disgrace to
the statute-book. Who that has witnessed the barbarous and unmanly sports of the cock-pit and
the stake-- the fiendlike ingenuity displayed by the lord of the
creation in teaching his dependents to torture, mangle, and destroy
each other for his own amusement-- the cruelties of the greedy and
savage task-master towards the dumb labourer whose strength has decayed
in his service-- or the sufferings of the helpless brute that drags
with pain and difficulty its maimed carcass to Smithfield-- what reasonable
being that has witnessed all or any of this, will venture to affirm
that interference is officious and uncalled for?

Yet it is certain that Mr. Martin acted properly and wisely in excluding flies from the operation
of his act-- well knowing, as he must have done, that the feeling of the majority was decidedly
averse from affording parliamentary countenance and immunity to those descendants of the victims
of Domitian's just indignation; although it is understood that such a provision would have been cordially
supported by the advocates for universal toleration.

The simple question for consideration would be, whether the conduct
and principles of the insect species have undergone such a material
change as to entitle them to new and extraordinary enactments in their
favour?

Have they entirely divested themselves of their licentious and predatory
habits, and learnt now for the first time to distinguish between right
and wrong?

Do they understand what it is to commit sacrilege?

To intrude into the sanctum sanctorum of the meat-safe?

To rifle and defile the half roseate, half lily-white charms of a virgin
ham?

To touch with unhallowed proboscis the immaculate lip of beauty, the unprotected scalp of old age,
the savoury glories of the kitchen?

To invade with the most reckless indifference, and the most wanton
malice, the siesta of the alderman or the philosopher?

To this we answer in the eloquent and emphatic language of the late
Mr. Canning-- No! Unamiable and unconciliating monsters!

The wildest and most ferocious inhabitants of the desert may be reclaimed
from their savage nature, and taught to become the peaceful denizens
of a menagerie-- but ye are altogether untractable and untameable.

Gratitude and sense of shame, the better parts of instinct, have never yet interposed their sacred
influence to prevent the commission of one treacherous or unbecoming action of yours. The holy
rites of hospitality are by you abused and set at naught; and the very roof which shelters
you is desecrated with the marks of your irreverential contempt for
all things human and divine.

Would that-- (and the wish is expressed more in sorrow than in anger)--
would that your entire species were condensed into one enormous bluebottle,
that we might crush you all at a single swoop!

Many,
calling themselves philanthropists and Christians, have omitted to squash a fly when they had an
opportunity of so doing; nay, some of these people have even been known to go the length of writing verses
on the occasion, in which they applaud themselves for their own humane disposition, and congratulate
the object of their mistaken mercy on its narrow escape from impending
fate.

There is nothing more wanting than to propose the establishment of a Royal Humane Society for
the resuscitation of flies apparently drowned or suffocated.

 Tell me, dost know the two small, high islands in the ava[2] which is called
Jakoits? Hast seen the graves of two white men there?"

"I know the islands well; but I have never seen the graves of any white men there. Who were
they, and when did they die?"

"Ah, I am a foolish old man. I forget how old I am. Perhaps, when thou wert a child in thy
mother's arms, the graves stood up out of the greensward at the foot of the high cliff which
faces to the south. Tell me, is there not a high wall of rock a little way back from the landing
beach?... Aye!... that is the place ... and the bones of the men are there, though now great
trees may grow over the place. They were both good men--good to look at, tall and strong; and
they fought and died there just under the cliff. I saw them die, for I was there with the captain
of my ship. We, and others with us, saw it all."

"Who were they, Pâkía, and how came they to fight?"

"One was a trader, whose name was Preston; he lived on the mainland of Ponapé, where he had
a great house and oil store and many servants. The name of the other man was Frank. They fought
because of a woman."

"Tell me the story, Pâkía. Thou hast seen many lands and many strange things. And when ye come
and sit and talk to me the dulness goeth away from me and I no longer think of the ship; for
of all the people on this motu, to thee and Temana my servant alone do I talk freely. And Temana
is now at church."

The old man chuckled. "Aye, he is at church because Malepa, his wife, is so jealous of him
that she fears to leave him alone. Better would it please him to be sitting here with us."

I drew the mat curtain across the sitting-room window so that we could not be seen by prying
eyes, and put two cups, a gourd of water, and some brandy on the table. Except my own man,
Temana, the rest of the natives were intensely jealous of the poor old ex-sailor and wanderer
in many lands, and they very much resented his frequent visits to me--partly on account of
the occasional glass of grog which I gave him, and partly because he was suspected of still
being a tagata po-uriuri, i.e., a heathen. This, however, he vigorously denied, and though
Maréko, the Samoan teacher, was a kind-hearted and tolerant man for a native minister, the
deacons delighted in persecuting and harassing the ancient upon every possible opportunity,
and upon one pretext or another had succeeded in robbing him of his land and dividing it among
his relatives; so that now in his extreme old age he was dependent upon one of his daughters,
a woman who herself must have been past sixty.

I poured some brandy into the cups; we clicked them together and said, "May you be lucky" to
each other. Then he told me of Solepa.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There were many whaleships came to anchor in the three harbours of Ponapé in those days. They
came there for wood and water and fresh provisions, before they sailed to the cold, icy seas
of the south. I was then a boat-steerer in an English ship--a good and lucky ship with a good
captain. When we came to Ponapé we found there six other whaleships, all anchored close together
under the shelter of the two islets. All the captains were friends, and the few white men who
lived on shore were friends with them, and every night there was much singing and dancing on
board the ships, for, as was the custom, every one on board had been given a Ponapé girl for
wife as long as his ship stayed there; and sometimes a ship would be there a long time--a month
perhaps. 

[image] In order to remedy this grave defect, arising from the employment
of a flat-faced anvil, I introduced my V anvil face (see Fig. 2),
the effect of which was, that the dispersive action of the blow of
the hammer was changed into a converging action, which ensured the
perfect soundness of the work; while the V or fork-like form of the
angle face kept the work steadily under the centre of the hammer,
allowing the scale or scoriae to fall into the apex or bottom of the
V, which thus passed away, leaving the faces of the angle quite clear.

This simple and common-sense improvement was eagerly and generally adopted, and has been productive of
most satisfactory and important results. 1847. A Spherical-seated Direct-weighted
Safety Valve. Having been on several occasions called to investigate the
causes of steam boiler explosions, my attention was naturally directed to
the condition of the Safety Valve. I found the construction of them
in many cases to be defective in principle as well as in mechanical
details; resulting chiefly from the employment of a conical form
in the valve, which necessitated the use of a guide spindle to enable
it to keep in correct relative position to its corresponding conical
seat, as seen at A in Fig. 1.

As this guide spindle is always liable to be clogged with the muddy deposit from the boiling water,
which yields a very adhesive encrustation, the result is a very riskful
tendency to impede the free action of the Safety Valve, and thereby
prevent its serving its purpose.

[image] With a view to remove all such causes of uncertainty in the
action of this vitally important part of a steam boiler I designed
a Safety Valve, having a spherical valve and corresponding seat, as
seen in B C, Fig. 2.

This form of Safety Valve had the important property of fitting to its bearing-seat in all positions,
requiring no other guide than its own spherical seat to effect that essential purpose. And as the
weight required to keep the valve closed until the exact desired maximum pressure of steam has
been attained, is directly attached to the under side of the valve by the rod, the weight, by being
inside the boiler, is placed out of reach from any attempt to tamper with it. The entire arrangement
of this Safety Valve is quite simple. It is free from all Lever Joints and other parts which might
become clogged; and as there is always a slight pendulous motion in
the weight by the action of the water in the boiler, the spherical
surfaces of the valve and its seat are thus ever kept in perfect
order.

As soon as the desired pressure of steam has been reached, and the
gravity of the weight overcome, the valve rises from its seat, and
gives perfectly free egress to any farther accumulation of steam.

It is really quite a treat, in its way, to observe this truly simple and effective Safety Valve in
action. After I had contrived and introduced this Safety Valve, its valuable
properties were speedily acknowledged, and. its employment has now
become very general.

1847. A Machine for cutting out Cottar Slots and Key-Groove Recesses in Parts of Machinery by a Traversing
Drill. One of the most tedious and costly processes in the execution
of the detail parts of machinery is the cutting out of Cottar Slots
in piston rods, connecting rods, and key recesses in shafts.

This operation used to be performed by drilling a row of holes through
the solid body of the object, and then chipping away the intermediate metal
between the holes, and filing the rude slot, so produced, into its required
form.

The whole operation, as thus conducted, was one of the most tedious
and irksome jobs that an engineer workman could be set to, and could
only be performed by those possessed of the highest skill.

What with broken chisels and files, and the tedious nature of the work, it was a most severe
task to the very best men, not to speak of the heavy cost in wages. In order to obviate all
these disadvantages, I contrived an arrangement of a drilling machine, with a specially formed drill,
which at once reduced the process to one of the easiest conducted in an engineer's workshop.
[Image] The. "special" form of the Drill consisted in the removal of the centre portion of
its flat cutting face by making it with a notch O. This enabled it to cut sideways, as well
as downwards, and thus to cut a slit or oblong hole. No labour, as such, was required; but only
the intelligent superintendence of a lad to place the work in the
machine, and remove it for the next piece in its turn.

The machine did the labour, and by its self-action did the work in the most perfect manner. I may
further mention that the arrangement of the machine consisted in
causing the object to traverse to and fro in a straight line, of any
required length, under the action of the drill.

The traversing action was obtained by the employment of an adjustable crank, which gave the requisite
motion to a slide table, on which the work was fastened. The "feed" downwards of the drill was effected
by the crank at the moment of its reversing the slide, as the drill reached the end of the traverse;
and, as there is a slight pause of the traverse at each end of it, the "feed" for the next
cutting taking place at that time, the drill has the opportunity
given to perfect its cut ere it commences the next cutting traverse
in succession.

This action continues in regular course until the drill makes its way right through the piece
of work under its action; or can be arrested at any required depth according to the requirements of
the work.

Soap and water as a lubricator continues to drop into the recess of the slot, and is always
in its right place to assist the cutting of the drill.

As before said, the entire function of this most effective machine tool is self-acting. It only
required an intelligent lad or labourer to attend to it; and, as there was ample time to spare,
the superintendence of two of these machines was quite within his
ability.

The rates of the productive powers of this machine, as compared with
the former employment of hand labour, was at least ten to one; to
say nothing of the superior quality of the work executed.

Such were the manifold advantages of this machine, that its merits soon became known and appreciated;
and although I had taken out no patent for it, we always had an abundance of orders, as it was
its own best advertisement. 1848. A Steam Hammer Form of Steam-Engine. [Image] This engine is
of great simplicity and get-at-ability of parts. It is specially adapted
for screw-propelled steamships, and many other purposes.

It is now in very general use. The outline is given above. 1848.

Application
of Hydraulic Power to the Punching of Large Holes in Iron Bars, and Plates of Great Thickness. Dr.
Faraday having applied to me to furnish him, for one of his lectures at the Royal Institution, with
some striking example of the Power of Machinery in overcoming the resistance to penetration in
the case of some such material as cold malleable iron, it occurred to me to apply the tranquil but
vast power of a hydraulic press to punch out a large hole in a thick cake of malleable iron. Knowing
that my excellent friend John Rick had in his works at Bolton one of the most powerful hydraulic presses
then existing, contrived and constructed by his ingenious father,
the late Benjamin Hick, I proceeded to Bolton, and explained Dr.
Faraday's requirement, when, with his usual liberal zeal, Mr. Hick
at once placed the use of his great hydraulic press at my service.

Having had a suitable cake of steam-hammered malleable iron given to me for the purpose in question,
by my valued friend Thomas Lever Rushton of the Bolton Ironworks, we soon had the cake of iron placed
in the great press. It was 5 inches thick, 18 inches long, and 15 inches wide. Placing a cylindrical
coupling box of cast-iron on the table of the press, and then placing
the thick cake of iron on it, and a short cylindrical mass of iron
(somewhat of the size and form of a Stilton Cheese) on the iron cake,
the coupling box acting as the Bolster of the extemporised punching
machine,-- the press was then set to work.

We soon saw the Stilton Cheese-like punch begin to sink slowly and quietly through the 5-inch thick
cake of iron, as if it had been stiff clay. The only sound heard
was when the punched-out mass dropped into the recess of the coupling
below.

Such a demonstration of tranquil but almost resistless power of a hydraulic press had never, so far
as we were aware, been seen before.

The
punched of iron, together with the punched-out disc, were then packed
off to Faraday; and great was his delight in having his request so promptly
complied with. Great also was the wonder of his audience when the punched
plate was placed upon the lecture table.

This feat of Benjamin Hick's great hydraulic press set me a-thinking.

I conceived the idea that the application of hydraulic press power
might serve many similar purposes in dealing with ultra thick plates
or bar iron,-- such as the punching out of holes, and cutting thick
bars and plates into definite shapes, as might be required.

I suggested the subject to my friend Charles Fox, head of the firm of Fox, Henderson, and Co. He had taken
a large contract for a chain bridge, the links of which were to be
of thick flat iron bars, with the ends broadened out for the link-pins
to pass through.

He had
described to me the trouble and cost they had occasioned him in drilling the holes, and in cropping
the rude-shaped ends of the bars into the required form.

I advised him to try the use of the hydraulic press as a punching-machine, and also as a cutting-machine
to dress the ends of the great links. He did so in due time, and found the suggestion of great service
and value to him in this, and in other cases of a similar kind. The saving of cost was very great,
and the work was much more perfect than under the former system. 1848. An Alternately-pegged
"Shive" or Pulley for Rope Band Power Transmission. 1848. A Turn-table "Trunnion Vision" Reflecting
Telescope. This is so arranged that the observer can direct the Telescope and view an object in
any part of the heavens without moving from his seat, which is attached to the turn-table.
For explanations, see text, p. 337. 1850. A Double or Ambidexter Self-acting Turning-Lathe,
with "Dead Gutters," specially adapted for turning Bolts and suchlike
detail Parts of Machinery.

[Image] [Image] This is a very valuable tool. It requires only one attendant. It is especially useful
as regards efficiency and economy. It will be sufficiently understood by mechanical engineers
from the annexed drawings. 1852. A Solid-bar "Link-Valve Motion," especially valuable for the
larger class of Marine Steam-Engines. 1854. Steam Puddling Patent. This was the "pioneer" of
the Bessemer process. See Bessemer correspondence, p. 354 1854. A Reversible Rolling Mill without Fly-wheel.
This Rolling Mill consists of two combined steam-engines, acting on cranks at right angles, the
reversing of the rolls being effected by the link motion. The requisite rolling power is obtained
by suitable wheel and pinion gear, so as to be entirely independent
of the momentum of a fly-wheel, which is entirely dispensed with.

I did not patent the invention. As usual in such cases, I made no secret of it, but sent sketches
explanatory of the arrangement to many professional friends interested in mechanical improvements.
It was adopted by many, especially for rolling long and heavy bars and plates. It enabled the
workmen to "see-saw" these ponderous objects, and pass them to and fro through the rolls with the
utmost case,-- to the great saving of heat, time, and labour. The invention was first brought
into use by Mr. Ramsbotham at the Crewe works of the London and North-Western Railway. On the
4th December 1866 I received the following letter from him: "DEAR SIR-- I must crave your forgiveness
for my great delay in acknowledging the receipt of your kind letter of the 29th August, in which
you refer to the successful carrying out at these works of your idea of a'Reversible Rolling
Mill without a Fly-wheel.'It has long been to me a matter of astonishment that your idea has not
been reduced to practice years ago, particularly when it is considered how well the arrangement is
adapted to the rolling of Armour Plates, or other work requiring a sustained effort, whilst it is at the
same time more effective than the ordinary mill arrangement for very light work. So much is this
latter true, that the men who are left to their own choice in the
matter, will reverse the mill rather than pass a light sheet of 8
or 10 lbs. weight over the upper roll.

This country is much indebted to you for so valuable a suggestion; and now that it has been brought to a
successful issue, I have no doubt but it will be widely acted upon.

I need not add that it will afford me much pleasure to show you the mill, and also what we are
doing generally, if you should at any time visit Crewe.-- Believe me very faithfully yours,"
J. RAMSBOTHAM.

"I also communicated the invention to Mr. Thomas Gillott of the Farnley
Ironworks, Yorkshire, and received from him the following letter,
dated the 2d January 1877:" DEAR SIR-- I was much gratified to see
by your letter in Engineering the interest you have shown with respect
to the large Reversing Plate Mill erected by me at these works, and
drawn on the plan suggested by you.

Allow me to thank you for the complimentary manner in which you have
mentioned my work.

Since the notice appeared, we have done a deal of heavy work in this mill; and a plate large
enough to shear 11'0 "and 10'2" and 1/ 2 "thick has been rolled in five minutes. The slab went through
the roll 17 times before being rolled to the width and turned round,
and 18 times after turning and of the full width; making a total of
35 passes-- the turning occupying 20 seconds.

When it is remembered how rapidly a thin plate cools, this performance will sufficiently indicate
the severe work this mill is capable of doing; notwithstanding the
many predictions that such large plates could not be rolled without
a fly-wheel.

As to repairs, none have been required; so I cannot compare this
with the Clutch systems.

In respect of steam used, the direct acting engines compare favourably
with an expansion beam condensing engine doing similar but lighter
work.

Should it ever be your wish to see this mill at work, I should be much pleased to have the opportunity
of showing it to you.-- I am, dear sir, your obedient servant," THOMAS GILLOTT. "1854. Drilling Tunnels
through Hard Rock.

Besides these contrivances and methods of accomplishing mechanical
objects, I have on several occasions read papers, prepared drawings,
and given suggestions, out of which have come so-called" inventions
"made by others.

For instance, at the meeting of the British Association in Liverpool
in 1854, I read a paper and exhibited drawings before the Mechanical
Science Section, on my method of drilling tunnels through hard rock.

The paper
and drawings excited considerable interest among the railway engineers
who were present.

I afterwards met Mr. George Newmann, C. E., who consulted me on the same subject.
Several years after (21st April 1863) I received the following letter
from him:" DEAR Sir-- Some few years ago, I had the pleasure of spending
an evening in your company at my relative's (Mr. G. Withington) house
at Pendleton.

As I was then Engineer to the Victor Emmanuel Railway, and had made
a survey of the Mout Cenis for the purpose of the Tunnel, I consulted
you as to the application of the machinery for that work.

You suggested the driving of drills in a manner similar to a piston-rod,
with other details.

On my return to Savoy, I communicated these ideas to Mr. Bartlett, the contractor's agent, and
I recommended him to get a small trial machine made. This he had done in a few months, and then he
claimed the whole idea as his own. The system has since been carried out (see Times, 4th April 1863)
by compressed air instead of steam.

I call your attention to this, as you may contradict, if you think proper, the assertion in the article
above mentioned, that the idea originated with Bartlett. "I did not, however, contradict the assertion.
I am glad that my description and drawings proved in any way useful towards the completion of that magnificent
work, the seven-mile tunnel under Mont Cenis. 1862. Chilled Cast-iron Shot. In like manner,
I proposed the use of Chilled Cast-Iron Shot at a meeting of the Mechanical Science Section of
the British Association, held at Cambridge in October 1862. Up to that time hardened steel
shot had been used to penetrate thick iron plates, but the cost was
excessive, about# 30 a ton.

I proposed that Chilled Cast-Iron should be substituted; it was more simple
and inexpensive. Considerable discussion took place on the subject; and
Sir William Fairbairn, who was President of the Section, said that" he would
have experiments made, and he hoped that before the next meeting of
the Association, the matter would be proved experimentally. A brief report
of the discussion is given in the Times of the 7th October, and in
the Athenaeum of the 18th October, 1862. Before, however, the matter
could be put to the test of experiment, Major Palliser had taken out
his Patent for the invention of Chilled Cast-Iron Shot, in May 1863,
for which he was afterwards handsomely rewarded.

I do not wish to "grasp" at any man's inventions, but it is right to claim my own, and to
state the facts. The discussion above mentioned took place upon a paper read by J. Aston,
Esq., Q. C., who thus refers to the subject in his letter to me, dated the 7th January 1867:
"I perfectly remember the discussion which took place at the meeting of the British Association
at Cambridge in 1862, upon the material proper to be used as projectiles. The discussion
arose after a paper had been read by me in the Mechanical Section
upon'Rifled guns and projectiles adapted for attacking armour plates.'The
paper was, I think, printed by the Association in their Report for
1862.

You
spoke, I believe, at some length on the occasion; and I recollect that
you surprised and much interested all who were present, by strenuously
urging the use of Chilled Cast-iron for shot and shell, intended
for penetrating armour plates."

Having embraced all opportunities, and
I had many at that time, of ascertaining all that was done in the way
of improving rifled projectiles, I entertained a very strong opinion
that experiments had shown that ordinary cast-iron was, as compared
with steel, of very little value for shot and shell to be used against
iron plates.

For that reason, I remember I took an opportunity, after the termination of the discussion, in
which you held your own against all comers in favour of chilled cast-iron, of questioning you
closely on the subject, and you gave me, I admitted, good reason for the opinion you expressed.
You also urged me to cause a trial to be made of chilled cast-iron for shell, such as I had shown
to the section, and which (in hardened steel shot) had been fired by Mr. Whitworth through thick
iron plates. This I had not an opportunity of doing. Term began soon
after, and Temple occupations then took up all my time. "There can be
no doubt whatever that any one who may claim to have been before
you in teaching the public the use of Chilled Cast Iron for projectiles
intended to penetrate iron plates, must give proof of having so done
prior to your vigorous advocacy of that material at the Cambridge
Meeting in 1862.-- Yours very sincerely," J. Aston.

"In another letter Mr. Aston says--" It is quite right of you to assert your claim to that
which in fact belongs to you. "I did not, however, assert my claim; and, with these observations
and extracts, I leave the matter, stating again the fact that my
public communication of the invention was made in October 1862; and
that the patent for the invention was taken out by Major Palliser
in May 1863.

Mr Nasmyth's final comments on his inventions and contrivances. I have only mentioned the more prominent
of my inventions and contrivances.

Had I described them fully I should have required another volume.

I have the satisfaction to know that many of them have greatly advanced
the progress of the mechanical arts, though they may not be acknowledged
as mine.

I patented very few of my inventions. The others I sowed broadcast
over the world of practical mechanics. My reward is in the knowledge
that these" children of my brain "are doing, and will continue to do,
good service in time present and in time to come.

In mechanical structures and contrivances, I have always endeavoured to attain the desired purpose
by the employment of the Fewest Parts, casting aside every detail not absolutely necessary, and
guarding carefully against the intrusion of mere traditional forms and arrangements. The latter are
apt to insinuate themselves, and to interfere with that simplicity and directness of action which
is in all cases so desirable a quality in mechanical structures. PLAIN
COMMON SENSE should be apparent in the general design, as in the
form and arrangement of the details; and a general character of severe
utility pervade the whole, accompanied with as much attention to gracefulness
of form as is consistent with the nature and purpose of the structure.

THE SUN-RAY ORIGIN OF THE PYRAMIDS AND CUNEIFORM CHARACTER. Before
I take my leave of the public, I wish to put on record my speculations
as to the origin of two subjects of remote antiquity, viz. the Sun-ray
origin of the Pyramids, and the origin of the Arrow-head or Cuneiform
Character.

First, with respect to the Sun-ray origin of the Egyptian Pyramids. In pursuing a very favourite
subject of inquiry, namely the origin of forms, no portion of it appears to me to be invested
with so deep an interest as that of the Worship of the Sun, one of the most primitive and sacred foundations
of adorative religion,-- affecting as it has done, architectural structures and numerous habits
and customs which have come clown to us from remote antiquity, and which owe their origin to its
influence. On many occasions, while beholding the sublime effects of the Sun's Rays streaming
down on the earth through openings in the clouds near the horizon, I have been forcibly impressed with
the analogy they appear to suggest as to the form of the Pyramid, while the single vertical ray
suggests that of the Obelisk.

In following up this subject, I was fortunate enough to find what appears to me a strong confirmation
of my views, namely, that the Pyramid, as such, was a sacred form. I met with many examples of this
in the Egyptian Collection at the Louvre at Paris; especially in
small pyramids, which were probably the objects of household worship.

In one case I found a small pyramid, on the upper part of which appeared
the disc of the Sun, with pyramidal rays descending from it on to
figures in the Egyptian attitude of adoration.

This consists in the hands held up before the eyes-- an attitude expressive of the brightness of the
object adored. It is associated with the brightness of the Sun,
and it still survives in the Salaam, which expresses profound reverence
and respect among Eastern nations.

It also survives in the disc of the Sun, which has for ages been placed like a halo behind
the heads of sacred and exalted personages, as may be seen in Eastern and early paintings, as well
as in church windows at the present day. This is also intimately connected with lighted lamps
and candles, which latter may often be met with in Continental churches, as well as in English Ritualist
Churches at the present day. In Romish Continental churches they are stuck on to pyramidal stands, and
placed before pictures and images of sacred personages. No, they
were not Englishmen; they were Spaniolas. But the officers were Englishmen and Germans. They
did not run away, they were killed. Brave men get killed and cowards live. I am no coward though
I am still alive. It is quite proper that I should live, for I never ran away when there was
fighting to be done. I have only been a fool because of my love for women. No one could say
I was a coward, and no one can say I am a fool, because I am too old now to be a fool.

"As Franka and those with him left the burning schooner and rowed towards the islands, the
three boats from the shore changed their course and followed him. Franka and his men were the
first to reach the land, and they quickly ran up the beach and crouched behind the bushes which
grew at high-water mark. They all had guns, and Sipi and Solepa and I saw them waiting to shoot.
We were hiding amid the roots of a great banyan tree, and could see well. As the boats drew
near Solepa watched them eagerly, and then began to weep and laugh at the same time when she
saw her husband Preston was steering the one which led. She was a good woman. She loved her
husband. I was pleased with her, and told her to be of good cheer, for I was sure that Preston
and his people would kill Franka and those with him, for as they rowed they made no noise.
No one shouted nor challenged; they came on and on, and the white man Preston stood up with
the steer oar in his hand, and his face was as a stone in which was set eyes of fire. When
his boat was within twenty fathoms of the beach the rowers ceased, and he held up his hand
to those who awaited his coming.

"'Listen to me, men of Ro|an Kiti. We are as three to one of ye, and ye are caught in a trap.
Death is in my mouth if I speak the word. Tell me, is my wife Solepa alive?'

"No one answered, but suddenly Franka stepped out from behind the bushes and pointed his rifle
at him, and was about to pull the trigger when a young man of his party who was of good heart
seized him by the arm, and cried out 'twas a coward's act; then two or three followed him,
and together they bore Franka down upon the sand; and one of them cried out to Preston--

"'This is a wrong business. We were led astray by this man. We are no cowards, and have no
ill-will to thee. Thy wife is alive. She swam ashore with two others when the ship struck.
Are we dead men?'

"Then, ere Preston could answer, Solepa leapt out from beneath the banyan tree and ran through
the men of Ro|an Kiti towards the beach, and cried--

"'Oh, my husband, for the love of God let no blood be shed! I am well and unharmed. Spare these
people and spare even this man Franka, for he is mad!'

"Then Preston leapt out of the boat and put his arms around her waist and kissed her, and then
put her aside, and called to every one around him--

"'These are my words,' he said. 'I am a man of peace, but this man Franka is a robber and a
dog, and hath stolen upon me in the night and slain my people, and his hands are reddened with
blood. And he hath put foul dishonour on me by stealing Solepa my wife, and carrying her away
from my house as if she were a slave or a harlot. And there is no room here for such a man
to live unless he be a better man than I. But I am no murderer. So stand aside all! Let him
rise and rest awhile, and then shall we two fight, man to man. Either he or I must die.'

"Then many men of both sides came to him and said, 'Let this thing be finished. You are a strong
man. Take this robber and slay him as you would slay a pig.' But he put them aside, and said
he would fight him man to man, as Englishmen fought.

"So when Franka was rested two cutlasses were brought, and the two men stood face to face on
the sand. I kept close to Franka, for I meant to stab him if I could, but Preston angrily bade
me stand back. Then the two crossed their swords together and began to fight. It was a great
fight, but it did not last long, for Preston soon ran his sword through Franka's chest. I saw
it come out through his back. But as he fell and Preston bent over him he thrust his cutlass
into Preston's stomach and worked it to and fro. Then Preston fell on him, and they died together.

"There was no more bloodshed. Solepa and Sipi and I dressed the dead man in his best clothes,
and the Ro|an Kiti men dressed Franka in his best clothes, and a great funeral feast was made,
and we buried them together on the little island. And Solepa went back again to Honolulu in
a whaleship. She was young and fair, and should have soon found another husband. I do not know.
But Sipi was a fine wife to me."

The Fisher Folk of Nukufetau

Early one morning, about a week after I had settled down on Nukufetau as a trader, I opened
my chest of fishing-gear and began to overhaul it. In a few minutes I was surrounded by an
eager and interested group of natives, who examined everything with the greatest curiosity.

Now for the preceding twelve months I had been living on the little island of Nanomaga, a day's
sail from Nukufetau; and between Nanomaga and Nukufetau there was a great bitterness of long
standing--the Nanomagans claimed to be the most daring canoe-men and expert fishermen in all
the eight isles of the Ellice Group, and the people of Nukufetau resented the claim strongly.
The feeling had been accentuated by my good friend the Samoan teacher on Nanomaga, himself
an ardent fisherman, writing to his brother minister on Nukufetau and informing him that although
I was not a high-class Christian I was all right in all other respects, and a good fisherman--"all
that he did not know we have taught him, therefore," he added slyly, "let your young men watch
him so that they may learn how to fish in deep and rough water, such as ours." These remarks
were of course duly made public, and caused much indignation, neither the minister nor his
flock liking the gibe about the deep, rough water; also the insinuation that anything about
fishing was to be learnt from the new white man was annoying and uncalled for.

I must here mention that the natives of De Peyster's Island (Nukufetau) caught all the fish
they wanted in the smooth and spacious waters of the lagoon, and were not fond of venturing
outside the barrier reef, except during the bonito season, or when the sea was very calm at
night, to catch flying-fish. Then, too, the currents outside the reef were swift and dangerous,
and the canoes had either to be carried a long distance over the coral or paddled a couple
of miles across the lagoon to the ship passage before the open sea was gained. Hudson's Island
(Nanomaga)--a tiny spot less than four miles in circumference--had no lagoon, and all fishing
was done in the deep water of the ocean. The natives were used to launching their canoes, year
in and year out, to face the wildest surf, and were, in consequence, wonderfully expert, and
in the history of the island there is only one instance of a man having been drowned. The De
Peyster people, by reason of the advantage of their placid lagoon, had no reason to risk their
lives in the surf in this manner, and so, naturally enough, they were not nearly as skilful
in the management of their frail canoes when they had to face a sweeping sea on the outer or
ocean reef.

Just as I was placing some coils of heavy, deep-sea lines upon the matted floor, Marèko the
native teacher, fat, jovial, and bubbling-voiced, entered in a great hurry, and hardly giving
himself time to shake hands with me, announced in a tone of triumph, that a body of atuli (baby
bonito) had just entered the passage and were making their way up the lagoon.

In less than ten seconds every man, woman, and child on the island, except the teacher and
myself, were agog with excitement and bawling and shouting as they rushed to the beach to launch
and man the canoes, the advent of the atuli having been expected for some days. In nearly all
the equatorial islands of the Pacific these beautiful little fish make their appearance every
year almost to a day, with unvarying regularity. They remain in the smooth waters of lagoons
for about two weeks, swimming about in incredible numbers, and apparently so terrified of their
many enemies in their own element, and the savage, keen-eyed frigate birds which constantly
assail them from above, that they sometimes crowd into small pools on the inner reef, and when
the tide is low, seek to hide themselves by lying in thick masses under the overhanging ledges
of coral rock. But the mansion has long given way to Little Bedford-street.

The most striking object in the engraving is, however, the original church of St. Paul, as built
by Inigo Jones, connected with which is the following anecdote:-- When the Earl of Bedford sent
for Jones, in 1640, he told him he wanted a chapel for the parishioners of Covent Garden; but added,
he would not go to any considerable expense. "In short," said he, "I would not have it much better
than a barn."-- "Well, then," replied Jones, "you shall have the handsomest barn in England." The
ceiling was very beautifully painted by Edward Pierce, sen. a pupil of Vandyke. In 1795, the
church was accidentally destroyed by fire, but it was rebuilt by Mr. Hardwick, in imitation of the
original design.

In a note at page 236 of vol. x. of the MIRROR, we adverted to the disgraceful state of Covent Garden
Market, which of late years has been little better than a public nuisance. The broom of reform
at length promises to cleanse this Augean area; and a new market is in the course of erection.
The design, it will be recollected, was in this year's Exhibition
at Somerset House, and in an early Number we may probably give a view
of the Elevation.

       

The celebrity of Covent Garden as a depot for vegetable produce is of considerable antiquity;
and it is but reasonable that such an improvement should be made, consistent with the increased
and increasing wants of this overgrown metropolis, and the augmented supplies which are poured in
from all quarters. When this improvement is completed, it may lead to the finishing of the quadrangle.
The parish (in extent, not in feeling) is, perhaps, one of the most compact in London; but when
its proximity to the theatres is considered, little surprise can
reasonably be felt at the immorality of the district.

It may not be so easy a matter to mend the public morals as to build new markets; but the links
of popular improvement are too closely connected to make the case
hopeless.

It would be amusing to compare this emporium of fruits and vegetables in ancient and modern
times. At the first enclosure of Covent Garden, in 1635, the supply
must have been very scanty.

Upon the authority of Hume, we learn that when Catherine, queen of Henry VIII., was in want of
any salads, carrots, or other edible roots,& c. she was obliged to send a special messenger to
Holland for them. But the mention of water-cresses, kales, gooseberries, currants,& c., by old
writers, appears to invalidate the pursy historian. The garden must, nevertheless, have presented
a very different appearance to that of our day. Only let the gourmand take a walk through the
avenues of the present Covent Garden-- from the imperial pine, to the emerald leaves sprinkled
with powdered diamonds-- vulgo, savoys. Then the luscious list of autumnal fruits, and the peppers,
or capsicums, and tomatas, to tickle the appetite of the veriest epicure of east or western
London-- not to mention the exotic fragrance of oranges, which come
in just opportunely to fill up the chasm in the supply of British
fruits.***** ANCIENT ROMAN FESTIVALS DECEMBER.

(For the Mirror.) The feasts of Opalia were celebrated in honour
of the goddess Ops; they were held on the 9th of December.

Saturn and Ops were husband and wife, and to them we owe the introduction
of corn and fruits; for which reason the feast was not held till the
harvest and fruit time were over.

The vows offered to this goddess were made sitting on the ground,
to show that she was Earth, the mother of all things.

The Saturnalia were festivals in honour of Saturn, celebrated the
16th or 17th, or, according to others, the 18th of December.

They were instituted long before the foundation of Rome, in commemoration of the freedom and equality
which prevailed on earth in the golden reign of Saturn. Some, however, suppose that the Saturnalia
were first observed at Rome in the reign of Tullus Hostilius, after a victory obtained over the Sabines;
while others support, that Janus first instituted them in gratitude to Saturn, from whom he had
learnt agriculture; others suppose that they were first celebrated
in the year of Rome 257, after a victory obtained over the Latins
by the dictator, Posthumius.

The Saturnalia were originally celebrated only for one day, but afterwards the solemnity continued
for three, four, five, and at last for seven days. The celebration was remarkable for the license
which universally prevailed. The slaves were permitted to ridicule their masters, and to speak with
freedom upon any subject. It was usual for friends to make presents
one to another; all animosity ceased; no criminals were executed; schools
were shut; war was never declared, but all was mirth, riot, and debauchery.
In the sacrifices the priests made their offerings with their heads
uncovered,-- a custom which was never observed at other festivals. The
Divalia was a feast held on the 2lst of December, in honour of the
goddess Angerona, whence it is also called Angeronalia.

On the day of this festival the pontifices performed sacrifices in the temple of Voluptia, or the goddess
of joy and pleasure, who, some say, was the same with Angerona, and supposed to drive away all
the sorrow and chagrin of life.

The feast of Laurentinalia was held on the 23rd of December, but
was ordered to be observed twice a year by Augustus; by some supposed
to be in honour of the Lares, a kind of domestic genii, or divinities,
worshipped in houses, and esteemed the guardians and protectors of
families, supposed to reside in chimney-corners.

Others have attributed this feast in honour of Acca Laurentia, the nurse of Romulus and Remus, and
wife of Faustulus. P. T. W.***** CELTIC ETYMOLOGIES. (For the Mirror.) Hibernia.-- Ireland is
called by the Latin writers, Hibernia, Ivernia-- Ierne [1]-- and Verna-- names differing but little
in sound, and all, merely Latinizations of the Irish words Ibh Eirin--
that is, the Land of Erié-- for Ibh, in Irish, signifies a land, or
country, and Eirin is the genitive case of Eire, the name of Ireland
in the Irish tongue-- from Ibh Eirin the Romans formed Hibernia,&
c. the termination only being Latin-- and from Eire, by adding land,
the Saxons formed Eireland or Ireland.

This Eire was a very ancient queen who gave her name to the country, as in modern times Virginia
was called after Queen Elizabeth, Maryland after the queen of Charles
I.,& c. [1] Scotorum cumulos flevit glacialis Ierne.

CLAUDIAN. Tory.-- A robber, an outlaw, literally, one hunted-- a name originally given to the outlawed
Irish chiefs of Ulster, in the reign of James I., who after the seizure of their lands, had a price
set upon their heads, and were hunted by the soldiery like wild beasts;
hence the name of Tories, meaning the hunted people, for Toriacht
in Irish signifies a pursuit or hunting, and Torihe, hunted.

In the reign of Charles II. it began to be used to designate a party
in the state favourable to absolute monarchy; many of these "Tories"
having followed the fortunes of that prince in exile, returned with him,
and being his most devoted partisans when reseated on his throne.
Admiral.-- This word, which appears to have sadly puzzled the etymologists,
having been derived from the Phoenician, the Coptic, and half a dozen
languages besides, is pure Celtic, but little altered too, in its
transit from one language to another.

Ard, high or chief, Muir, the sea, and Fear, (in composition pronounced ar) a man, so that Ardmurar,
or Admiral, signifies literally the Chief Seaman.

There is nothing of torture in this derivation, as may be seen by
referring to any Irish dictionary, and it is a curious fact, that
the Irish seamen in the navy very generally call the Admiral "the
Ardmurar."

In Irish it is frequently written in two words, thus-- Ard muirfhear.

Beltin day.-- The first of May is so called in many places in the
North of England.

It was a custom in the days of Druidism to light large fires on the
tops of hills on the evening of the first of May, in honour of Bel
or the Sun, and hence that day is still called in Irish, La Bheltine,
or the day of Bel's fire, from La, a day, Bel, the god Bel, and teine,
fire.

The same ceremony was practised in Britain, being a Druidical rite, and the name (Beltin day) remains,
although the custom from which it originated, has in England, at least, been long forgotten. Guthrie,
in his "Geographical Grammar," tells us, that the English language is a compound of the Saxon, the
French, and the Celtic. As far as this latter is concerned, the assertion appears to me to have been
made without due consideration; I do not believe that there are twenty words of genuine Celtic
in the English language; there are, it is true, a very few Irish words, which have become as
it were, English denizens, and of these I have sent you a specimen
above; but I do not believe it possible to increase their number
to twenty, even in broad Scotch, in which dialect of the Saxon (from
the neighbourhood of the Highlanders who use the Irish language) some
Celtic words might be expected, but very few occur; [2] there is,
however, one very curious exception to this rule, and for which, I
confess, I am unable to account, (though perhaps your correspondent,
Rupert C. in No. 342, might,) it is this-- that in Grose's Dictionary
of the Vulgar Tongue, or Cant Language, if the words which are evidently
figurative be thrown out, nearly the whole of what remain are pure
Irish.

[2] As Oe a grandson-- Irish O or Ux byre, a cowhouse-- Irish boyach
(boi-theach.) H. S.***** TURKISH CANNON.

(For the Mirror.) The Turks use the largest cannon of any people
in Europe.

In our ships, and I believe in our batteries, we seldom use a heavier gun than a 32-pounder. No
man-of-war carries a gun of a larger calibre; but the Turks make use of 800-pounders. Mahommed
II. is stated to have used at the siege of Constantinople, in 1453, cannon of an immense calibre,
and stone shot. When Sir J. Duckworth passed the Dardanelles to attack Constantinople, in 1807,
his fleet was dreadfully shattered by the immense shot thrown from
the batteries.

The Royal George (of 110 guns) was nearly sunk by only one shot, which carried away her cut-water,
and another cut the main-mast of the Windsor Castle nearly in two; a shot knocked two ports
of the Thunderer into one; the Repulse (74) had her wheel shot away
and twenty-four men killed and wounded by a single shot, nor was the
ship saved but by the most wonderful exertions.

The heaviest shot
which struck our ships was of granite, and weighed 800 pounds, and was two feet two inches in diameter.
One of these huge shots, to the astonishment of our tars, stove in the whole larboard bow
of the Active; and having thus crushed this immense mass of timber, the shot rolled ponderously
aft, and brought up abreast the main hatchway, the crew standing aghast at the singular spectacle.
One of these guns was cast in brass in the reign of Amurath; it was composed of two parts, joined by a screw
at the chamber, its breach resting against massy stone work; the
difficulty of charging it would not allow of its being fired more
than once; but, as a Pacha said, "that single discharge would destroy
almost the whole fleet of an enemy."

The Baron de Trott, to the great terror of the Turks, resolved to
fire this gun.

The shot weighed 1,100 pounds, and he loaded it with 330 pounds of powder: he says, "I felt a shock
like an earthquake, at the distance of eight hundred fathoms. I saw the ball divide into three
pieces, and these fragments of a rock crossed the Strait, and rebounded on the mountain." W. G.
C.***** AN ORIGINAL SCOTCH SONG FOR THE ANNIVERSARY OF ST. ANDREW'S DAY. (For the Mirror.) Air.--
"The kail brose o'awld Scotland." Ye vintners a'your ingles [3] mak clear, An brew us some punch
our hearts a'to cheer, On November the thritie let's meet ilkie year
To drink to the memory o'Andrew, To Andrew the auld Scottish saint.

Peace was his word in the ha'or the fiel'[4] An his creed it was whalsome
to those that were leal To mak'the road straight O'he was the cheel,
Sae here's to the memory o'Andrew, To Andrew the auld Scottish saint.

In days o'langsyne as auld chronicles tell, When clans wi'their dirks gaid to it pell mell,
O he was sad'that a'fewds cou'd expel, Sae here's to the memory o'Andrew, To Andrew the auld Scottish
saint. For since at the Spey when M'Duff led the van, He vow'd that the charrians [5] he'd slay
every one, But by Andrew's doctren he slew na a man, Sae here's to the memory o'Andrew, To Andrew
the auld Scottish saint, When he to the Culdees the truth did explain They a'rubb'd their
beard, an'looket right fain An'vow'd that his council they'd ever retain, Sae here's to the memory o'Andrew,
To Andrew the auld Scottish saint. Altho'at fam'd Patres [6] he closed his e'e, Yet Regulus, the
monk, brought him far oure the sea, In St. Andrew's he sleeps, an'there let him be. Sae here's to the
memory o'Andrew, To Andrew the auld Scottish saint. C. [3] Fires. [4] Field. [5] See Buchanan's History
of Scotland, book p. 186. [6] See Cook's Geography, book ii. p. 302.*****
ORIGIN OF THE WORD BANKRUPT.

(For the Mirror.) This word is formed from the ancient Latin bancus
a bench, or table, and ruptus, broken.

Bank originally signified a bench, which the first bankers had in
the public places, in markets, fairs,& c. on which they told their
money, wrote their bills of exchange,&. c. Hence, when a banker failed,
they broke his bank, to advertise the public that the person to whom
the bank belonged was no longer in a condition to continue his business.

As this practice was very frequent in Italy, it is said the term bankrupt
is derived from the Italian banco rotto, broken bench.

Cowel (in his 4th Institute 227) rather chooses to deduce the word
from the French banque, table, and route, vestigium, trace, by metaphor
from the sign left in the ground, of a table once fastened to it and
now gone.

On this principle he traces the origin of bankrupts from the ancient
Roman mensarii or argentarii, who had their tabernae or mensae in
certain public places; and who, when they fled, or made off with the
money that had been entrusted to them, left only the sign or shadow
of their former station behind them.

P. T. W.***** ORIGIN OF THE WORD BROKER,& c. (For the Mirror.) The
origin of this word is contested; some derive it from the French broyer,
"to grind;" others from brocader, to cavil or riggle; others deduce
broker from a trader broken, and that from the Saxon broc, "misfortune,"
which is often the true reason of a man's breaking.

In which view, a broker is a broken trader, by misfortune; and it is
said that none but such were formerly admitted to that employment.

The Jews, Armenians, and Banians are the chief brokers throughout most parts of the Levant and the
Indies. In Persia, all affairs are transacted by a sort of brokers,
whom they call "delal" i. e. "great talkers."

Their form of contract in buying and selling is remarkable, being done in the profoundest
silence, only by touching each other's fingers:-- The buyer, loosening his pamerin, or girdle,
spreads it on his knee; and both he and the seller, having their hands underneath, by the
intercourse of the fingers, mark the price of pounds, shillings,& c.,
demanded, offered, and at length agreed on. I was asked; and old Viliamu, who was a sarcastic old gentleman, made
a mock apology for me--

"How should he know any better? The sharks of Tokelau have no teeth, like the people there,
for they too are eaters of fala."

This evoked a sally of laughter, in which of course I joined. The excellence of my grandfather's
workmanship was a thing that my own father always impressed upon me when a boy. It stimulated
in me the desire to aim at excellence in everything that I undertook; and in all practical matters
to arrive at the highest degree of good workmanship. I believe that these early lessons had
a great influence upon my future career.

I have little to record of my grandmother. From all accounts she was everything that a wife
and mother should be. My father often referred to her as an example of the affection and love
of a wife to her husband, and of a mother to her children. The only relic I possess of her
handiwork is a sampler, dated 1743, the needlework of which is so delicate and neat, that to me
it seems to excel everything of the kind that I have seen.

I am fain to think that her delicate manipulation in some respects descended to her grandchildren,
as all of them have been more or less distinguished for the delicate
use of their fingers-- which has so much to do with the effective transmission
of the artistic faculty into visible forms.

The power of transmitting to paper or canvas the artistic conceptions of the brain through the
fingers, and out at the end of the needle, the pencil, the pen, the
brush, or even the modelling tool or chisel, is that which, in practical
fact, constitutes the true artist.

This may appear a digression; though I cannot look at my grandmother's sampler without thinking
that she had much to do with originating the Naesmyth love of the Fine Arts, and their hereditary
adroitness in the practice of landscape and portrait painting, and
other branches of the profession.

My
grandfather died in 1803, at the age of eighty-four, and was buried by his father's side in
the Naesmyth ancestral tomb in Greyfriars Churchyard. His wife, Mary Anderson, who died before him,
was buried in the same place.

Michael Naesmyth left two sons-- Michael and Alexander.

The eldest was born in 1754.

It was intended that he should have succeeded to the business; and, indeed, as soon as he
reached manhood he was his father's right-hand man. He was a skilful workman, especially in
the finer parts of joiner-work.

He was also an excellent accountant and bookkeeper. But having acquired a taste for reading books
about voyages and travels, of which his father's library was well supplied, his mind became disturbed,
and he determined to see something of the world. He was encouraged by one of his old companions,
who had been to sea, and realised some substantial results by his
voyages to foreign parts.

Accordingly Michael, notwithstanding the earnest remonstrances of his father, accompanied his
friend on the next occasion when he went to sea.
After several voyages to the West Indies and other parts of the world,
which both gratified and stimulated his natural taste for adventures,
and also proved financially successful, his trading ventures at last
met with a sad reverse, and he resolved to abandon commerce, and enter
the service of the Royal Navy. During our absence the women and children had been most industrious;
the weather-worn, dilapidated huts had been made habitable with freshly-plaited kapaus--coarse
mats of green coconut leaves, the floors covered with clean white pebbles, sleeping mats in
readiness, and heaps of young drinking nuts piled up in every corner, whilst outside smoke
was arising from a score of ground ovens in which taro and puraka were being cooked, together
with bundles of atuli wrapped in leaves.

Etiquette forbade Marèko and myself counting our fish until the rest of the party returned,
although the women had taken them out of the canoe and laid them on the beach, where the pouring
rain soon washed them clean and showed them in all their shining beauty. Among them were two
or three parrot-fish--rich carmine, striped with bands of bright yellow, boneless fins, and
long protruding teeth in the upper jaw showing out from the thick, fleshy lips; and one afulu--a
species of deep-water sand mullet with purple scales and yellow fins.

Whilst awaiting the rest of the canoes I drew the teacher into our hut and pressed him to take
some whisky. He was wet, cold, and shivering, but resolutely declined to take any. "I should
like to drink a little," he said frankly, "but I must not. I cannot drink it in secret, and
yet I must not set a bad example. Do not ask me, please. But if you like to give some to the
old men do so, but only a very little." I did do so. As soon as the rest of the party landed
I called up four of the oldest men and gave each of them a stiff nip. They were all nude to
the waist, and like all Polynesians who have been exposed to a cold rain squall, were shivering
and miserable. After each man had taken his nip and emitted a deep sigh of satisfaction I observed
that hundreds of old white men saved their lives by taking a glass of spirits when they were
wet through--they had to do so by the doctor's orders.

"That is true," said one old fellow; "when men grow old, and the rain falls upon them it does
not run off their skins as it would from the smooth skins of young men. It gets into the wrinkles
and stays there. But when the belly is warmed with grog a man does not feel the cold."

"True," I said gravely, as I poured some whisky out for myself; "true, quite true, my dear
friends. And in these islands it is very bad for an old man to be exposed to much rain. That
is why I am disturbed in my mind. See, there is Marèko, your minister. He, like you, is old;
he is wet and cold. And he shivers. And he will not take a mouthful of this rom because he
fears scandal. Now if he should become ill and die I should be a disgraced man. This rom is
now not rom; it is medicine. And Marèko should take some even as you have taken it--to keep
away danger."

The four old fellows arose to the occasion. They talked earnestly together for a minute, and
then formed themselves into a committee, requested me to head them as a deputation with the
whisky, and then waited upon their pastor, who was putting on a dry shirt in another hut. I
am glad to say that under our united protests he at last consented to save his life, and felt
much better.

Presently the women announced that the ovens were ready to be opened. As soon as the fish were
counted, and the rain having ceased, we all gathered round the canoes and watched each one
emptied of its load. As I imagined, our party had taken the most fish, and not only the most,
but the heaviest as well. Marèko added to my blushing honours by informing the company that
as a fisherman and a knowledgable man generally I justified his brother minister's opinion
and would prove an acquisition to the community. He was interred in the burial-ground of Père
la Chaise, between the tombs of Molière and La Fontaine, being attended to the grave by several
members of the faculty. Three eloges, or oraisons funèbres, were delivered at the place of interment
by Professor Broussais, Dr. Fossati, and Dr. Londe.

Broussais informs us, that Dr. Gall possessed most of the social virtues, particularly beneficence
and good-nature-- qualities, he observes, precious in all ranks of society, and which ought to make
amends for many defects; but for Gall, they had only to palliate a certain roughness of character,
which might wound the susceptibility of delicate persons, although the sick and unfortunate never
had to complain; and, indeed, the doctor ought, in strict justice, to have more merit in our ideas,
from never having once lost sight, in his writings, of either decency or moderation, particularly
when it is remembered how severely he was attacked in propagating
his favourite doctrine.

T. B.***** FROM CATULLUS.

(For
the Mirror.) My Lydia says, "believe me I speak true, I ne'er will
marry any one but you; If Jove himself should mention love to me,
Not even Jove would be preferred to thee."

She says-- but all that women tell Their doting lovers-- I, alas!
too well Know, should be written on the waves or wind, So little do
their words express their mind.

T. C.***** THE NOVELIST***** GERMAN TRADITIONS.

I have a song of war for knight, Lay of love for lady bright, Faery tale to lull the heir, Goblin
grim the maids to scare! SIR WALTER SCOTT.

Germany! land of mystery and of mind! birth-place of Schiller and Goëthe, with what emotions does
not every lover of romance sit down to peruse thy own peculiar, dreamy
traditions!

Thy very name conjures up visions of demons, and imps, and elfs,
and all the creations of faery land, with their varied legends of
diablerie, almost incredible in number and singular in detail-- and
romance, in his gloomy mood, seems here to have reared his strong
hold.

At a time when a taste for the beauties of German literature is becoming
general throughout this country, we conceive that a few specimens
of her traditions may not be unacceptable to the reader.

Few subjects are more interesting than the popular legends of a country,
which are the source from whence many of our later novelists draw
several of their writings: they offer a field for reflection to the
contemplative observer of man; and those of Germany, although some
are disfigured with a little too much absurdity in their details,
are confessedly a mine of wealth to the lover of research in such
matters.

Here Schiller first drew the sources of his inspiration; here Goëthe
first electrified mankind with his writings-- works which will render
both immortal; it is, indeed, a mine which has been and will bear
much working.

We have chosen the following tradition, both on account of the merit
it possesses, and its being the unquestionable origin of Washington
Irving's inimitable Rip Von Winkle.

Indeed, the similarity of the story is strikingly obvious. We believe there are several legends on
this subject, which, with the present, probably all refer to the
Emperor Frederic Barbarossa, whose adventures form the source of many
a story among the Germans.

The original tale is nearly as follows:-- It seems the emperor was
once compelled to conceal himself, with a party of his followers,
amongst the Kyffhaüsen mountains; there he still lives, but is under
the influence of magic.

He sits with his adherents on a seat before a stone table, leaning his head upon his hands,
seeming to slumber; but apparently his sleep is very restless, and his head nods, and seems as if
he were going to awake, and his red beard has grown through the table down to his feet. He takes
pretty long naps, not more than a hundred years in length at a stretch: when his slumber is interrupted,
he is fabled to be very fond of music; and it is said that there
was a party of musicians, who once gave him a regular serenade in
his subterranean retreat, doubtless expecting some wonderful token
of his generosity in return; but they received nothing for their pains
but a number of green boughs, which so disgusted them, that they all
threw them away on their return to earth, save one, who, however,
had no suspicion of its worth, for on showing it to his wife, to his
great astonishment, each leaf became a golden coin.

An author before us observes, that this tale of the emperor's slumbers cannot, perhaps, be deemed
original, and is probably a popular version of the Seven Sleepers, "not a little disfigured
by the peculiar superstition of the country."

The same writer remarks, with justice, that it is surprising how few are the sources, and how
scanty the parent stock, from whence all the varieties of European legend are derived. Indeed,
the foundation of a great part of these legendary stories seems to have been the heathen mythology of the
different countries, and the various tales of superstition being handed down from one generation
to another, have gradually assumed the shape they now bear; from whence may be traced most
of our popular superstitions. THE LEGEND OF THE GOATHERD. When I behold a football to and fro,
Urged by a throng of players equally, Methinks I see, resembled in
that show, This round earth poised in the vacant sky.***** And all
we learn whereas the game is o'er, That life is but a dream, and nothing
more.

AMADIS JANRYN. "Know'st thou me not?"---------------- "Oh, yes, (I cried,) thou art indeed the same."
GOETHE. At the peaceful village of Sittendorf dwelt Peter Klaus, the goatherd. He daily tended his
flocks to pasture in the Kyffhäusen mountains, and never failed,
as evening approached, to muster them in a little mead, surrounded
by a stone wall, preparatory to driving them home; for some time,
however, he had observed, that one of the finest of his herd regularly
disappeared soon after coming to this nook, and did not join her companions
till late.

       One night, watching her attentively, he remarked that she slipped
through a hole or opening in the wall, on which he cautiously crept
after the animal, and found she was in a cave, busily engaged in
gleaning the grains of corn that fell down singly from the roof.

Peter did not look long before the shower of corn that now saluted him made him shake his ears, and
inflamed his curiosity the more to discover the cause of so singular an occurrence in that out-of-the-way
place. However, at last he heard the neigh and stamping of horses, apparently proceed from above;
and it was doubtless from their mangers that the oats had fallen. While standing, still wrapped
in amazement at the singularity of the adventure, Peter's surprise was
not diminished on observing a boy, who, without saying a word, silently
beckoned him to follow.

Peter mechanically obeyed the gestures of the lad, and ascended some
steps, which led over a walled court into a hollow place, completely
surrounded on all sides by lofty rocks, and crowned by the rich foliage
of shrubs, through which an imperfect twilight displayed a smooth,
well-trimmed lawn, that formed the ground he stood upon. Here were twelve
knights, who, without so much as uttering a syllable, were very gravely
playing at nine-pins; and as silently was Peter inducted into the office
of assistant, namely, in setting up these nine-pins. Peter's courage
was none of the strongest during all this time, and his knees smote each
other most devoutly as he commenced his duties; while he occasionally
ventured to steal a glance at the venerable knights, whose long beards
and antique slashed doublets filled him with profound awe.

His fears, however, began to be on the wane, as he became more accustomed to his new employment.
Indeed, he went so far as to gaze on one of the noble knights straight in the face-- nay, even at
last ventured to sip out of a bowl of wine that stood near him, which diffused a most delicious
odour around. He found this sip so invigorating, that he soon took a somewhat longer pull; and in
a short time Peter had quite forgotten that such things as Sittendorf, Wife, or Goats had ever existed;
and on finding himself the least weary, he had only to apply to the never-failing goblet. At
last he fell fast asleep. On waking, Peter found he was in the same
little enclosure where he was wont to count his flocks. He shook himself
well, and rubbed his eyes; but neither dog nor goats were to be seen;
and he was astonished in no slight degree to observe that he was nearly
surrounded with high grass, and trees, and shrubs, which he never
before remarked, growing about that spot.

Lost in perplexity, he followed his way to all the different haunts
he had frequented with his herds, but no traces of them were to be
discovered; at last he hastily bent his steps to Sittendorf, which
lay beneath.

The persons whom he met on his way to the village were all strangers to him; they were differently dressed,
and did not precisely speak the language of his acquaintance; and
on inquiring after his goats, all stared and touched their chins.

At last he mechanically did the same, but what was his surprise when
he found his beard lengthened at least a foot; on which he began to
conclude that he and those around him were all under the influence
of magic or enchantment.

Yet the mountain he had descended was certainly the Kyffhäusen--
the cottages, too, with their gardens and enclosures, were all quite
familiar to him-- and he heard some boys reply to the passing questions
of a traveller, that it was Sittendorf.

His doubt and perplexity now increased every moment, and he quickened
his steps towards his own dwelling; he hardly knew it, it was so much
decayed; and before the door lay a strange goatherd's boy, with a
dog apparently at the last extreme of age, that snarled when he spoke
to him.

He entered the house through an opening, which had formerly been
closed by a door.

All was waste and void within; he staggered out as if he had lost
his senses, calling on his wife and children by their names; but no
one heard-- none answered.

Before long, a crowd of women and children had collected around the strange old man, with the long
hoary beard, and all inquired what it was he was seeking after. This was almost too much; to be
thus questioned before his own door was more than strange, and he felt ashamed to ask after his wife and
children, or even of himself; but to get rid of his querists he mentioned the first name that
occurred to him, "Kurt Steffen?"

The people looked around in silence, till at length an old woman said, "He has been in the
churchyard these twelve years past, and you'll not go thither to-day."-- "Velten Meier?"-- "Heaven
rest his soul!" replied an ancient dame, leaning on a crutch. "Heaven rest his soul! he has
lain in the house he will never leave these fifteen years!" The goatherd shuddered to recognise
in the last speaker his next neighbour, who seemed all at once to have grown
old; but he had lost all desire to inquire further.

Suddenly a smart young woman pressed through the surrounding gapers, with an infant in her arms,
and leading a girl about fourteen years old-- all three the exact
image of his wife.

With greater surprise than ever he inquired her name. "Maria!"-- "And
your father's name?"-- "Peter Klaus! Heaven rest his soul! It is now
twenty years since his goats returned without him, and we sought
for him in vain day and night in the Kyffhäusen mountains-- I was
then hardly seven years old."

Our goatherd could no longer contain himself. "I am Peter Klaus!" he roared, "I am Peter Klaus,
and no one else!" and he caught the child from his daughter's arms. Every one, for an instant,
stood as if petrified, till at length one voice, and another, and then another, exclaimed, "Yes,
this is, indeed, Peter Klaus! welcome, neighbour! welcome, after twenty years!" VYVYAN.***** SPIRIT
OF DISCOVERY***** ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS. Since our last visit, many of the tenants have begun
to hybernate, and tasteful erections have been made for their winter quarters in all parts
of the gardens. Several others are in progress, and a semi-circular aviary for British birds is already
built. The season is far advanced, and there have been but few arrivals of late. The emus'grounds have
been enclosed with elegant iron-work, and several removals or changes
have taken place.

Some of the animals are much affected by the cold weather. Thus, the monkeys have left their houses
on poles, and retired to enclosed cages, where they nestle in groups of threes and fours, and amuse
themselves by teazing the least of their company; for here, as elsewhere, the weakest goes to the
wall. Three fine wolves, previously shut up in a small den, now enjoy a large cage, where they
appear much invigorated by the bracing season. Here and there a little animal
lies curled up in the corner of his cage, in a state of torpidity.
Among the birds, the macaws were holding an in-door council in their
robes of state; whilst one fine fellow, in blue coat and yellow waistcoat,
perched himself outside the aviary, and by his cries, proved that
fine colours were not weather-proof.

The snowy plumage of the storks was "tempered to the wind;" but they
reminded us of their original abode-- the wilderness.

The eagles and vultures in the circular aviary sat on their perches,
looking melancholy and disconsolate, but well protected from cold.

The kangaroos have removed into their new house, and their park has been relaid, although
they still look unsettled. A very pretty beaver-house has been built of mimic rocks. Among the
introductions, or new faces, we noticed a pair of fine mastiffs from Cuba, and two Thibet watch-dogs.
One of the latter stood shivering in the cold, with bleared eyes, and crying "like a lubberly postmaster's
boy."

The
three bears exhibited as much good-breeding as the visiters encouraged,-- climbing to the top
of the pole when there was any thing to climb after, and an Admiralty expedition could do no more. Poisoning
of Vegetables. Several very curious experiments on the poisoning of vegetables, have recently been
made by M. Marcet, of Geneva.-- His experiments on arsenic, which is well known to every one
as a deadly poison to animals, were thus conducted. A vessel containing two or three bean
plants, each of five or six leaves, was watered with two ounces of water, containing twelve grains
of oxide of arsenic in solution. At the end of from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, the plants had faded,
the leaves drooped, and had even begun to turn yellow; the roots
remained fresh, and appeared to be living.

Attempts to restore the plants after twelve or eighteen hours, by abundant watering, failed to
recover them. The leaves and stem of the dead plant gave, upon chemical examination, traces of arsenic.
A branch of a rose-tree, including a flower, was gathered just as the rose began to blow; the
stem was put into a vessel, containing a solution of six grains of oxide of arsenic in an ounce of
water. The flower and leaves soon showed symptoms of disease, and on the fifth day the whole
branch was withered and dead, though only one-fifth of a grain of arsenic had been absorbed.
Similar stems, placed in pure water, had, after five days, the roses fully expanded, and the
leaves fresh and green. On June 1st, a slit of one inch and a half in length was made in the
stem of a lilac tree, the branch being about an inch in diameter. The slit extended to the
pith. Fifteen or twenty grains of moistened arsenic were introduced, the cut was closed,
and the stem retained in its original position by osier ties. On the 8th, the leaves began to
roll up at the extremity; on the 28th, the branches were dry, and, in the second week of July,
the whole of the stem was dry, and the tree itself dead. In about fifteen days after the first,
a tree, which joined the former a little above the earth, shared
the same fate, in consequence of its connexion with that into which
the poison had been introduced.

Other trees similarly cut, but without having been poisoned, suffered
no kind of injury.

It seemed that when the fat German manager--the man with spectacles--I mean the man who had
the spectacles until Billy MacLaggan came in--the man who was courting Mrs. Molly--fell on
the top of the goat, some other man trod on his face, and Leger (who was not sober enough to
tell one person from another) said that he saw Tom Denison do it. Seven natives, male and female,
swore that at the time alleged Tom was out on the beach bathing his crushed toe in the salt
water, and using solemn British oaths; but Leger, who disliked Denison, who had once kicked
him overboard violently for being drunk, not only stuck to the story, but said that Hayes and
Tom had set the goat on fire on purpose to break up the dance and cause annoyance to the Germans
present; also he vaguely hinted that they, Denison and Hayes, would have driven the seven cows
into the ballroom but couldn't find them. Then Mrs. MacLaggan promised the fat man to sack
Denison on the following morning, and at midnight, as I have said, word was brought in that
Billy had been shot. But about ten in the morning Leger heard from some native that the goat
was as well as ever, and on board Denison's vessel, and being a mean, spiteful little hound,
off he trotted to the German manager, and said that Captain Hayes and Mr. Denison had rescued
the creature. At that very moment the manager was talking to some German officers, one of whom
was the man whose watch had been smashed, and as every German in Samoa hated Hayes most fervently,
it was at once concluded that Hayes had trained, or suborned, or bribed, or corrupted the goat
to do it. SHAKSPEARE.***** A GOOD FELLOW.

The secretary of a literary society being requested to draw up "a
definition of a good fellow," applied to the members of the club,
individually, for such hints as they could furnish, when, he received
the following:-- Mr. Golightly.-- A good fellow is one who rides blood
horses, drives four-in-hand, speaks when he's spoken to, sings when
he's asked, always turns his back on a dun, and never on a friend.

Mr. Le Blanc.-- A good fellow is one who studies deep, reads trigonometry,
and burns love songs; has a most cordial aversion for dancing and
D'Egville, and would rather encounter a cannon than a fancy ball.

Hon. G. Montgomery.-- A good fellow is one who abhors moralists and
mathematics, and adores the classics and Caroline Mowbray. Sir T.
Wentworth.-- A good fellow is one who attends the Fox-dinners, who goes
to the Indies to purchase independence, and would rather encounter
a buffalo than a boroughmonger.

Mr. M. Sterling.-- A good fellow is a good neighbour,
a good citizen, a good relation; in short, a good man. Mr. M. Farlane.--
A good fellow is a bonnie braw John Hielandman.

Mr. O'Connor.-- A good fellow is one who talks loud and swears louder; cares little about learning,
and less about his neckcloth; loves whiskey, patronizes bargemen, and wears nails in his shoes.
Mr. Musgrave.-- A good fellow is prime-- flash-- and bang-up.

Mr. Burton.-- A good fellow is one who knows "what's what," keeps
accounts, and studies Cocker.



"Where's the goat, Tom?"

"On board Bully Hayes' ship. His crool, crool mistress shall see him no more! Never more shall
his plaintive call to his nannies resound o' nights among the sleeping palm-groves of the Vaisigago
Valley; never----" 

The mention of this name, coupled with the sight of the ironworks,
brought to my recollection a kind invitation which Mr. Hartop had
given me while visiting my workshop in Manchester to order some machine
tools, that it I ever happened to be in his neighbourhood, he would
be most happy to show me anything that was interesting about the ironworks
and colliery machinery under his management.

I at once decided to terminate my dreary ride on the top of the coach. I descended, and with
my small valise in hand I trudged over some trackless snow-covered fields, and made my way
by the shortest cut towards the blazing iron furnaces. On reaching them I was informed that Mr.
Hartop had just gone to his house, which was about a mile distant. I accordingly made my way
thither the best that I could through the deep snow. I met with a cordial welcome, and with the hospitable
request that I should take up my quarters there for the night, and have a round of the ironworks
and the machinery on the following day.

I cheerfully acceded to the kind invitation. I was then introduced to his wife and daughter
in a cosy room, where I spent a most pleasant evening.

As Mr. Hartop was an enthusiast in all matters relating to mechanism
and mechanical engineering subjects generally, we found plenty to
converse about; while his wife and daughter, at their needlework,
listened to our discussions with earnest and intelligent attention.

On the following day I was taken a round of the ironworks, and inspected their machinery, as
well as that of the collieries, in the details of which Mr. Hartop had introduced many common-sense
and most effective improvements. All of these interested me, and
gave me much pleasure. "I shall be glad to let him have them. Please tell Leger and Mataiasi
to catch them at once."

Then Mrs. MacLaggan went away, and Tom and O'Brien went down to the jetty to wait for a boat
to take them on board--Tom to his duty, and O'Brien because he was thirsty again. Presently
Leger and Mataiasi and a large concourse of native children came down, carrying two female
goats, who, imagining they were to be cast into the sea, began to cry with great violence,
and were immediately answered in a deep voice by Billy MacLaggan from over the water, whereupon
Leger started to run off and tell Mrs. MacLaggan that Billy was alive, and on board the Rona,
and Denison put out his foot and tripped him, and was at once assailed by Leger's black wife,
who hit him on the head with a stick, and then herself was pushed backwards off the jetty into
the water by Mr. O'Brien, taking several children and one of the goats with her, and in less
than two minutes there was as pretty a fight as ever was seen. Upon the whole, he would not,
perhaps, be considered to speak rashly or unadvisedly, who should affirm, that no earthly creature,
of the same insignificant character and pretensions, is the agent of nearly so much mischief as
the fly.-- What a blessed order of things would immediately ensue, if every one of them was to
be entirely swept away from the face of the earth! This most wished-for event, we fear, it
will never be our lot to witness; but it may be permitted to a sincere patriot, in his benevolent
and enthusiastic zeal for the well-being of his country, to indulge in aspirations that are
tinged with a shade of extravagance.

With respect, however, to the above mentioned vermin, the idea of their total annihilation may
not be altogether chimerical. We know that the extirpation of wolves from England was accomplished
by the commutation of an annual tribute for a certain number of their
heads; and it is well worth the consideration of the legislature,
whether, by adopting a somewhat similar principle, they may not rid
the British dominions of an equally great and crying nuisance.

The noble Duke, now at the head of his Majesty's Government, has
it in his power to add another ray to his illustrious name, to secure
the approbation and gratitude of all classes of the community, and
to render his ministry for ever memorable, by the accomplishment of
so desirable an object.

In the mean time, let the Society of Arts offer their next large
gold medal to the person who shall invent the most ingenious and destructive
fly-trap.

A certain quantity of quassia might be distributed gratis at Apothecaries'Hall, as vaccinatory
matter is at the Cow-pox Hospital, with very considerable effect; and an act of parliament should
be passed without delay, declaring the wilful destruction of a spider to be felony.-- Blackwood's
Magazine.***** THE CORONATION OF INEZ DE CASTRO.

[7] BY MRS. HEMANS.

"Tableau, aú l'Amour fait alliance avec la Tombe; union redoubtable
de la mort et de la vie."

MADAME DE STAEL.

There was music on the midnight; From a royal fane it roll'd, And a
mighty bell, each pause between, Sternly and slowly toll'd. Strange
was their mingling in the sky, It hush'd the listener's breath; For
the music spoke of triumph high, The lonely bell, of death.

There was hurrying through the midnight:-- A sound of many feet;
But they fell with a muffled fearfulness, Along the shadowy street;
And softer, fainter, grew their tread, As it near'd the Minster-gate,
Whence broad and solemn light was shed From a scene of royal state.

Full glow'd the strong red radiance In the centre of the nave, Where the folds of a purple canopy Sweep
down in many a wave; Loading the marble pavement old With a weight of gorgeous gloom; For
something lay'midst their fretted gold, Like a shadow of the tomb.
Why pass'd a faint cold shuddering Over each martial frame, As one
by one, to touch that hand, Noble and leader came?

Was not the settled aspect fair? Did not a queenly grace, Under the
parted ebon hair. Sit on the pale still face? Death, Death! canst thou
be lovely Unto the eye of Life? Is not each pulse of the quick high
breast With thy cold mien at strife?-- It was a strange and fearful
sight, The crown upon that head, The glorious robes and the blaze
of light, All gather'd round the Dead!

And beside her stood in silence One with a brow as pale, And white lips rigidly compress'd, Lest
the strong heart should fail; King Pedro with a jealous eye Watching
the homage done By the land's flower and chivalry To her, his martyr'd
one.

But on the face he look'd not Which once his star had been: To every
form his glance was turn'd, Save of the breathless queen; Though
something, won from the grare's embrace, Of her beauty still was there,
Its hues were all of that shadowy place,'Twas not for him to bear. But presently, in response to a
signal from the Lucy May, the whaler lay to; a boat put off from the smaller ship, and Captain
Ross came alongside, clambered over the bulwarks and joined Cayse and the young king of Port
Lele, who were awaiting him on the poop, to discuss with him the plan of surprise and slaughter
of the offending people of Leassé.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nearly a week before the Iroquois had run into Port Lele to refresh before proceeding westward
and northward to the Bonin Islands in pursuance of her cruise. It was a perfect casting, in all respects
worthy of the care and labour which I invested in its future grinding and polishing, and enabled
it to perform its glorious duties as the grand essential part of
a noble reflecting telescope!

[Image] A. Chill plate of cast iron turned to the curve of the speculum
B. Turned hoop of wrought iron with opening at O. C. Pouring pocket.

D.
Counterpoise, By which the chill plate is tilted up The largest figure in the engraving is
the annealing tub of cast iron filled with sawdust, where the speculum is placed to cool as
slowly as possible. The rationale of the strength of specula cast in this metal mould system, as compared
with the treacherous brittleness of those cast in sand moulds, arises
simply from the consolidation of the molten metal pool taking place
first at the lower surface, next the metal base of the mould-- the
yet fluid alloy above satisfying the contractile requirements of that
immediately beneath it; and so on in succession, until the last to
consolidate is the top or upper stratum.

Thus all risk of contractile tension, which is so dangerously eminent and inherent in the case
of sand-mould castings, made of so exceedingly brittle an alloy as that of speculum metal,
is entirely avoided. By the employment of these simple and effective
improvements in the art of casting the specula for reflecting telescopes,
and also by the contrivance and employment of mechanical means for
grinding and polishing them, I at length completed my first 8-inch
diameter speculum, and mounted it according to the Newtonian plan.

I was most amply rewarded for all the anxious labour I had gone through
in preparing it, by the glorious views it yielded me of the wonderful objects
in the heavens at night.

My enjoyment was in no small degree enhanced by the pleasure it gave
to my father, and to many intimate friends. Amongst these was Sir
David Brewster, who took a most lively and special interest in all
my labours on this subject. In later years I resumed my telescope making
enjoyments, as a delightful and congenial relaxation from the ordinary
run of my business occupations.

I constructed several reflecting telescopes, of sizes from 10-inch to 20-inch
diameter specula. I had also the pleasure of assisting other astronomical
friends, by casting and grinding specula for them.

Among these I may mention my late dear friend William Lassell, and my excellent friend Warren
de la Rue, both of whom have indelibly recorded their names in the annals of astronomical science.
I know of no subject connected with the pursuit of science which
so abounds with exciting and delightful interest as that of constructing
reflecting telescopes.

It brings into play every principle of constructive art, with the inexpressibly glorious reward of
a more intimate acquaintance with the sublime wonders of the heavens, I communicated in full detail
all my improvements in the art of casting, grinding, and polishing the specula of reflecting
telescopes, to the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, illustrating my paper with many
drawings. But as my paper was of considerable length, and as the illustrations would prove costly
to engrave, it was not published in the Society's Transactions. They are still, however, kept in
the library for reference by those who take a special interest in the subject. 1829. A Mode of transmitting
Rotary Motion by means of a Flexible Shaft, formed of a Coiled Spiral Wire or Rod of Steel. While assisting
Mr. Maudslay in the execution of a special piece of machinery, in which it became necessary to have some
holes drilled in rather inaccessible portions of the work in hand,
and where the employment of the ordinary drill was impossible, it occurred
to me that a flexible shaft, formed of a closely coiled spiral of steel
wire, might enable us to transmit the requisite rotary motion to
a drill attached to the end of this spiral shaft.

Mr. Maudslay was much pleased with the notion, and I speedily put it in action by a close coiled spiral
wire of about two feet in length. This was found to transmit the requisite rotary motion to the
drill at the end of the spiral with perfect and faithful efficiency.

The difficulty was got over, to Mr. Maudslay's great satisfaction.

So far as I am aware, such a mode of transmitting rotary motion was new and original. The device
was useful, and proved of essential service in other important applications.

By a suitably close coiled spiral steel wire I have conveyed rotary
motion quite round an obstacle, such as is indicated in the annexed
figure. [Image] It has acted with perfect faithfulness from the winch
handle at A to the drill at B. Any ingenious mechanic will be able
to appreciate the value of such a flexible shaft in many applications.
Four years ago I saw the same arrangement in action at a dentist's
operating-room, when a drill was worked in the mouth of a patient
to enable a decayed tooth to be stopped.

It was said to be the last thing out in "Yankee notions." It was merely a replica of my flexible
drill of 1829. 1829.

A Mode of cutting Square or Hexgonal Collares Nuts or Bolt-Heads by means of a Revolving File
or Cutter. This method is refrered to, and drawings given, in the
text, pp. 141, 142. 1829.

A
Investigation into the Origin and Mode of writing the Cuneiform
Character This will be found described in the next and final chapter
1836.

A Machine for cutting the Key-Grooves in Metal Wheels and Belt Pulleys, of ANY Diameter. The fastening
of wheels and belt pulleys to shafts, so as to enable them to transmit rotary motion, is one
of the most frequently-recurring processes in the construction of
machinery.

This is best effected by driving a slightly tapered iron or steel
wedge, or "key" as it is technically termed, into a corresponding
recess, or flat part of the shaft, so that the wheel and shaft thus
become in effect one solid structure.

The old mode of cutting such key-grooves in the eyes of wheels was
accomplished by the laborious and costly process of chipping and filing.
Maudslay's mortising machine, which he contrived for the Block machinery,
although intended originally to operate upon wood, contained all the
essential principles and details required for acting on metals.

Mr. Richard Roberts, by some excellent modifications, enabled it to mortise or cut out the key-grooves
in metal wheels, and this method soon came into general use. This machine consisted of a vertical
slide bar, to the lower end of which was attached the steel mortising
tool, which received its requisite up and down motion from an adjustable
crank, through a suitable arrangement of the gearing.

The wheel to be operated upon was fixed to a slide-table, and gradually
advanced, so as to cause the mortising tool to take successive cuts
through the depth of the eye of the wheel, until the mortise or key-groove
had attained its required depth.

The only drawback to this admirable machine was that its service was limited
in respect to admitting wheels whose half diameter did not exceed
the distance from the back of the jaw of the machine to the face of
the mortise tool; so that to give to this machine the requisite rigidity
and strength to resist the strain on the jaw, due to the mortising
of the key-grooves, in wheels of say 6 feet diameter, a more massive
and cumbrous frame work was required, which was most costly in space
as well as in money.

In order to obviate this inconvenience, I designed an arrangement of
a key-groove mortising machine.

It was capable of operating upon wheels of any diameter, having no
limit to it capacity in that respect.

It was, at the same time, possessed in respect of the principle on
which it was arranged, of the power of taking a much deeper cut,
there being an entire absence of any source of springing or elasticity
in its structure.

This not only enabled the machine to perform its work with more rapidity,
but also with more precision.

Besides, it occupied much less space in the workshop, and did not
cost above one-third of the machines formerly in use.

It gave the highest satisfaction to those who availed themselves
of its effective Services.

[Image] A comparison of Fig. 1-- which represents the general arrangement of the machine in
use previous to the introduction of mine-- with that of Fig. 2, may serve to convey some idea of
their relative sizes. Fig. 1 shows a limit to the admission of wheels exceeding 6 feet diameter,
Fig. 2 shows an unlimited capability in that respect. 1836. An Instrument for finding and marking
the Centres of Cylindrical Rods or Bolts about to be turned on the
Lathe.

One of the most numerous details in the structure of all classes of
machines is the bolts which serve to hold the various parts together.

As it is most important that each bolt fits perfectly the hole it belongs to, it is requisite that each
bolt should, by the process of turning, be made perfectly cylindrical.
In preparing such bolts, as they come from the forge, in order to
undergo the process of turning, they have to be "centred;" that is,
each end has to receive a hollow conical indent, which must agree
with the axis of the bolt.

To find this in the usual mode, by trial and frequent error, is
a most tedious process, and consumes much valuable time of the workman
as well as his lathe.

[Image] In order to obviate the necessity for this costly process, I devised the simple instrument,
a drawing of which is annexed. The use of this enabled any boy to find and mark with absolute exactness
and rapidity the centres of each end of bolts, or suchlike objects. All that was required was to
place the body of the bolt in the V-shaped supports, and to gently cause it to revolve, pressing it
longitudinally against the steel-pointed marker, which scratched
a neat small circle in the true centre or axis of the bolt.

This
small circle had its centre easily marked by the indent of a punch, and the work was thus ready
for the lathe. This humble but really important process was accomplished with ease, rapidity,
and great economy. 1836. Improvement in Steam-Engine Pistons, and
in Water and Air-Pump Buckets, so as to lessen Friction and dispense
with Packing. The desire to make the pistons of steam-engines and air-pump
buckets of condensing engines perfectly steam and water tight has led
to the contrivance of many complex and costly constructions for the
purpose of packing them.

When we take a commonsense view of the subject, we find that in most
cases the loss of power resulting from the extra friction neutralises
the expected saving.

This is especially the case with the air-pump bucket of a condensing steam-engine, as it is
in reality much more a water than an air pump. But when it is constructed with a deep well-fitted
bucket, entirely without packing, the loss sustained by such an insignificant amount of leakage
as may occur from the want of packing is more than compensated by
the saving of power resulting from the total absence of friction.

The first condensing steam-engine to which I applied an air-pump bucket,
entirely without packing, was the forty horsepower engine, which
I constructed for the Bridgewater Foundry.

It answered its purpose so well that, after twenty years'constant
working, the air-pump cover was taken off, out of curiosity, to examine
the bucket, when it was found in perfect order.

This system, in which I dispensed with the packing for air-pump
buckets of condensing steam-engines, I have also applied to the pistons
of the steam cylinders, especially those of high-pressure engines
of the smaller vertical construction, the stroke of which is generally
short and rapid.

Provided the cylinder is bored true, and the piston is carefully
fitted, and of a considerable depth in proportion to its diameter,
such pistons will be found to perform perfectly all their functions,
and with a total absence of friction as a direct result of the absence
of packing.

By the aid of our improved machine tools, cylinders can now be bored with such perfect accuracy,
and the pistons be fitted to them with such absolute exactness, that
the small quantity of water which the steam always deposits on the
upper side of the piston, not only serves as a frictionless packing,
but also serves as a lubricant of the most appropriate kind.

I have applied the same kind of piston to ordinary water-pumps, with similar excellent results. In most
cases of right packed pistons we spend a shilling-- to save sixpence--
a not unfrequent result of "so-called" refined improvements.

1836. An instantaneous Mode of producing graceful Curves, suitable for designing Vases and other
graceful objects in Pottery and Glass.

The mode referred to consists in giving a rapid "switch" motion to a pencil upon a piece of paper,
or a cardboard, or a smooth metal plate; and then cutting out the curve so produced, and employing
it as a pattern or "template," to enable copies to be traced from it. When placed at equal
distances, and at equal angles on each side of a central line, so
as to secure perfect symmetry of form according to the nature of the
required design, the beauty of these "instantaneous" curves, as I
term them, arises from the entire absence of any sudden variation
in their course.

This is due to the momentum of the hand when "switching" the pencil at a high velocity over the paper.
By such simple means was the beautiful curve produced, which is given
on the following page.

It was produced "in a twinkling," if I may use the term to express
the rapidity with which it was "switched." The chief source of the gracefulness
of these curves consists in the almost imperceptible manner in which
they pass in their course from one degree of curvature into another.

I have had the pleasure of showing this simple mode of producing
graceful curves to several potters, who have turned the idea to good
account.

The illustrative figures on the next page have all been drawn from "templates" whose curves
were "switched" in the manner of Fig. A. [Image] 1836.

A Machine for planing the smaller or detail parts of Machinery, whether Flat or Cylindrical. Although
the introduction of the planing machine into the workshops of mechanical engineers yielded results
of the highest importance in perfecting and economising the production of machinery generally, yet,
as the employment of these valuable machine tools was chiefly intended to assist in the execution
of the larger parts of machine manufacture, a very considerable proportion
of the detail parts still continued to be executed by hand labour,
in which the chisel and the file were the chief instruments employed.

The results were consequently very unsatisfactory, both as regards inaccuracy and costliness.
[image] With the desire of rendering the valuable services of the Planing Machine applicable to the
smallest detail parts of machine manufacture, I designed a simple
and compact modification of it, such as should enable any attentive
lad to execute all the detail parts of the machines in so unerring
and perfect a manner as not only to rival the hand work of the most
skilful mechanic, but also at such a reduced cost as to place the
most active hand workman far into the background.

The contrivance I refer to is usually known as "Nasmyth's Steam Arm."

None but those who have had ample opportunities of watching the process
of executing the detail parts of machines, can form a correct idea
of the great amount of time that is practically wasted and unproductive,
even when highly-skilled and careful workmen are employed.

They have so frequently to stop working, in order to examine the work in hand, to use the straight edge,
the square, or the calipers, to ascertain whether they are "working correctly." During that interval,
the work is making no progress: and the loss of time on this account is not less than one-sixth
of the working hours, and sometimes much more; though all this lost time is fully paid for in wages.
[Image] Apparatus for enabling the machine to execute segmented work
But by the employment of such a machine as I describe, even when
placed under the superintendence of well-selected intelligent lads,
in whom the faculty of good sight and nicety of handling is naturally
in a high state of perfection, any deficiency in their physical strength
is amply compensated by these self-acting machines.

The factory engine supplies the labour or the element of Force, while
the machines perform their work with practical perfection. The details
of machinery are thus turned out with geometrical accuracy, and are in the
highest sense fitted to perform their intended purposes. 1837.

Solar Ray Origin of the form of the Egyptian Pyramids, Obelisks, etc. This will be found described
summarily in the next and final chapter. 1837. Method of reversing the action of Slide Lathes. In
the employment of Slide Turning Lathes, it is of great advantage to be able
to reverse the motion of the Slide so as to enable the turning tool
to cut towards the Head of the Lathe or away from it, and also to
be able to arrest the motion of the Slide altogether, while all the
other functions of the lathe are continued in action.

All these objects are attained by the simple contrivance represented in the annexed illustration. [Image]
It consists of a lever E, moving on a stud-pin S, attached to the back
of the head stock of the lathe T. This lever carries two wheels of equal
diameter marked B and G. These wheels can pitch into a corresponding
wheel A, fixed on the back end of the lay spindle.

When the handle of the lever E is depressed (as seen in the drawing) the wheel B is in gear with
wheel A. while C is in gear with the slidescrew wheel D, and so moves the slide (say from the
Head Stock of the lathe). On the other hand, when the lever E is elevated in position E ", wheel
B is taken out of gear with A, while G is put in gear with A, and B is put in gear with D; and thus
the Slide is caused to move towards the Head Stock of the lathe. Again, where it is desired to arrest
the motion of the Slide altogether, or for a time, as occasion may require, the lever handle is put
into the intermediate position E', which entirely severs the communication
between A and D, and so arrests the motion of the slide.

This simple contrivance effectually served all its purposes, and was
adopted by many machine tool-makers and engineers.

1838. Self-adjusting Bearings for the Shafts of Machinery A frequent cause of undue friction and
heating of rapidly rotating machinery arises from some inaccuracy
or want of due parallelism between the rotating shaft or spindle and
its bearing.

This is occasioned in most cases by some accidental change in the level of the supports of
the bearings.

Many of the bearings are situated in dark places, and cannot be seen.
There are others that are difficult of access-- as in the case of
bearings of screw-propeller shafts. Serious mischief may result before
the heating of the bearing proclaims its dangerous condition.

In some cases the timber work is set on fire, which may result in serious consequences. In order
to remove the cause of such serious mischief, I designed an arrangement of bearing, which enabled
it, and the shaft working in it, to mutually accommodate themselves to each other under all
circumstances, and thus to avoid the danger of a want of due and mutual parallelism in their respective
axes.

This arrangement consisted in giving to the exterior of the bearing a
spherical form, so as, within moderate limits, to allow it to accommodate
itself to any such changes in regard to mutual parallelism, as above
referred to.

In other cases, I employed what I may call Rocking centres, on which
the Pedestal or" Plumber Block "rested; and thus supplied a self-adjusting
means for obviating the evils resulting from any accidental change
in the proper relative position of the shaft and its bearing.

In all cases in which I introduced this arrangement, the results were most satisfactory. In the
case of the bearings of Blowing Fans, in which the rate of rotation
is naturally excessive, a spherical resting-place for the bearings
enabled them to keep perfectly cool at the highest speed.

This was also the case in the driving apparatus for machine tools,
which is generally fixed at a considerable height above the machine.
These spherical or self-adjusting bearings were found of great service.

The apparatus, being generally out of convenient reach, is apt to get out of order unless duly attended
to.

But, whether or not, the saving of friction is in itself a reason
for the adoption of such bearings.

This may appear a trifling technical matter of detail; but its great
practical value must be my excuse for mentioning it.

1838. Invention of Safety Foundry Ladle. The safety ladle is described
in the text, p. 202.

1838. Invention of the Steam Ram My invention was made at this early date, long before the attack by
the steam-ram Merrimac upon the Cumberland, and other ships, in Hampton Roads, United States. I brought
my plans and drawings under the notice of the Admiralty in 1845; but nothing was done for many
years. Much had been accomplished in rendering our ships shot-proof by the application of iron plates;
but it appeared to me that not one of them could exist above water after receiving on its side
a single blow from an iron-plated steam-ram of 2000 tons. I said, in a letter to the Times," As
the grand object of naval warfare is the destruction by the most
speedy mode of the ships of the enemy, why should we continue to attempt
to attain this object by making small holes in the hull of the enemy
when, by one single masterly crashing blow from a steam ram, we can
crush in the side of any armour-plated ship, and let the water rush
in through a hole,'not perhaps as wide as a church door or as deep
as a well, but'twill serve'; and be certain to send her below water
in a few minutes.* [footnote... In these days of armour-clad warships,
when plates of enormous thickness are relied on as invulnerable, our
Naval Constructors appear to forget that the actual structural strength
of such ships depends on the backing of the plates, which, be it ever
so thick, would yield to the cramming blow of a moderate-sized Ram. Charlik has given orders for them to be killed,
as he says he only wants the woman! Ross, I believe, wanted him to spare 'em, but the young
cut-throat said 'No.' I heard all this from two men--the chap from the Lucy May and one of
Charlik's fighting men, who speaks English and seems to have a soft place in his heart for
Ledyard."

The mate of the Iroquois sprang to his feet. "The cold-blooded wretches! Come on, Macy. We
must get there in time."

For another two hours they made steady progress through the darkened forest aisles, and then
as they emerged out upon a piece of open country, they saw far beneath them the gleaming sea.
And here, amidst a dense patch of pandanus palms, the path they had followed came to an end.
Pushing their way through the thorny leaves, which tore the skin from their hands and faces,
Macy exclaimed excitedly--

"We're all right, sir. I can see a light down there. It must be a fire on the beach."

Heedless of the unknown dangers of the deep descent, and every now and then tripping and falling
over the roots of trees and fallen timber, they again came out into the open, and there, two
hundred feet below them, they saw the high-peaked, saddle-backed houses of Leassé village standing
clearly out in the starlight. But at this point their further progress was barred by a cliff,
which seemed to extend for half a mile on both sides of them. Cautiously feeling their way
along its ledge they sought in vain for a path.

"We must hail them, Macy. There will be sure to be plenty of them who can speak a little English
and show us the way to get down."

Returning as quickly as possible to the spot immediately over the village, the officer gave
a long, loud hail.

"Below there, you sleepers!"

The hoarse, shrieking notes of countless thousands of roosting sea-birds, as they rose in alarm
from their perches in the forest trees, mingled with the barking of dogs from the village,
and then came a wild cry of alarm from a human throat.

Waiting for a few moments till the clamour had somewhat subsided, the two men again hailed
in unison.

"Below there! Awake, you sleepers!"

Another furious outburst of yelping and barking--through which ran the quavering of voices
of the affrighted natives--smote the stillness of the night. Then the bright light of torches
of coconut leaves flashed below, nude figures ran swiftly to and fro among the houses, and
then came a deep-voiced answering hail in English--

"Hallo there! Who hails?"

"Two white men," was the officer's quick reply. "We cannot get down. Bear a hand with a torch;
we have lost the track." Then as something flashed across his mind, he added, "Who are you?
Are you a white man?"

"Yes. I am Tom Ledyard."

"Thank God for that! Send a light quickly. You and your people are in deadly danger."

In a few minutes the waiting men saw the gleam of torches amid the trees to their right, and
presently a tall, bearded, white man appeared, followed by half a dozen natives. All were armed
with muskets, whose barrels glinted and shone in the firelight.

Springing forward to meet him, North told his story in as few words as possible.

Ledyard's dark face paled with passion. "By heaven, they shall get a bloody welcome! Now, come,
sir; follow me. You must need rest badly."

As they passed through the village square, now lit up by many fires and filled with alarmed
natives, Ledyard called out in his deep tones--

"Gather ye together, my friends. The son of the Slaughterer is near. Send a man fleet of foot
to Môut and bid him tell Nena, the chief, and his head men to come to my house quickly, else
in a little while our bones will be gnawed by Charlik's dogs."

Then with North and Macy besides him, he entered his house, the largest in the village. A woman,
young, slender, and fair-skinned, met them at the door. Behind her were some terrified native
women, one of whom carried Ledyard's youngest child in her arms.

"'Rita, my girl," said Ledyard, placing his hand on his wife's shoulder and speaking in English,
"these are friends. They have come to warn us. That young hell-pup, Charlik, is attacking us
tomorrow. But quick, girl, get something for these gentlemen to eat and drink."

But North and the harpooner were too excited to eat, and, seated opposite their host, they
listened eagerly to him as he told them of his plans to repel the attack; of the bitter hatred
that for ten years had existed between the people of Leassé and the old king; and then--he
set his teeth--how that Sé, the friendly sister of the young king, had once sent a secret messenger
to him telling him to guard his wife well, for her brother had made a boast that when Leassé
and Môut were given to the flames only Cerita should be spared.

"Then, ten days ago, Mr. North, thinking that this young tiger-cub Charlik knew that these
people here were well prepared to resist an attack, I left in my cutter on a trading voyage
to Ponapé. Three days out the vessel began to make water so badly that I had to beat back.
I only came ashore yesterday."

He rose and walked to and fro, muttering to himself. Then he spoke again.

"Mr. North, and you, my friend"--turning to Macy--"have saved me and those I love from a sudden
and cruel death. What can I do to show my gratitude? You cannot now return to your ship; will
you join your fortunes with mine? I have long thought of leaving this island and settling in
Ponapé. There is money to be made there. Join me and be my partners. My cutter is now hauled
up on the beach--if she were fit to go to sea we could leave the island to-night. But that
cannot be done. It will take me a week to put her in proper repair--and to-morrow we must fight
for our lives."

North stretched out his hand. "Macy and I will stand by you, Ledyard. We do not want to ever
put foot again on the deck of the Iroquois."

CHAPTER III

The story of that day of bloodshed and horror, when Charlik and his white allies sought to
exterminate the whole community, cannot here be told in all its dreadful details. Seventy years
have come and gone since then, and there are but two or three men now living on the island
who can speak of it with knowledge as a tale of "the olden days when we were heathens." Let
the rest of the tale be told in the words of one of those natives of Leassé, who, then a boy,
fought side by side with Ledyard, North, and Macy.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The sun was going westward in the sky when the two ships rounded the point and anchored in
what you white men now call Coquille Harbour. We of Leassé, who watched from the shore, saw
six boats put off, filled with men. There pulled inside the reef, and went to the right towards
Môut; three went to the left. Letya (Ledyard), with the two white strangers who had come to
him in the night, and two hundred of our men, had long before gone into the mountains to await
Charlik and his fighting men, and their white friends. They--Letya and the Leassé people--made
a trap for Charlik's men in the forest. Charlik himself was in the boats with the other white
men. He wanted to see the people of Leassé and Môut driven into the water, so that he might
shoot at them with a new rifle which Késa or the other ship captain--I forget which--had given
to him. But he wanted most of all to get Cerita, the wife of Letya, the white man. Only Cerita
was to live. These were Charlik's words. He did not know that her husband had returned from
the sea. Had he known that, he would not have given all his money and all his oil to the two
white captains to help him to make Leassé and Môut desolate and give our bones to his dogs to eat.

"It was a great trap--the trap prepared by Letya; and Charlik's men and the white men with
them fell in it. They fell as a stone falls in a deep well, and sinks and is no more seen of men.

"This was the manner of the trap: The path down the cliff was between two high walls of rock;
at the foot of the cliff was a thick clump of high pandanus trees growing closely together.
In between these trees Letya built a high barrier of logs, encompassing the outlet of the path
to Leassé. This barrier was a half circle; the two ends touched the edge of the cliff, and
the centre was hidden among the pandanus trees. On the top of this barrier the men of Leassé
waited with loaded muskets; lower down on the ground were others, they too had loaded muskets.
On the top of the cliff where the path led down, fifty men were hidden. They were hidden in
the thick scrub which we call oap. Oap is a good thing in which to hide from an enemy, and
then spring from and slay him suddenly.

"I, who was then a boy, saw all this. I heard Letya, our white man, tell the head of our village
that Charlik's men would enter into the trap and perish. Then kava was made, and Letya and
the head men drank. Kava is good, but rum is better to make men fight. At the extreme edges of
the flow, where the lava had become viscid, these folds and contortions were very remarkable.
They were piled fold over fold,-- the result of the mighty pressure from behind. It was sad to
see so many olive gardens burnt and destroyed; the trees were as black as charcoal. It is singular
to see the numbers of orange and olive growers who choose to live so near to the "fiery element."
But the heat presses forward the growth of vegetation. To be there is like living in a hothouse;
and the soil is extraordinarily fertile. Hence the number of vineyards quite close to the base
of Vesuvius.

The cultivators endeavour to enclose their gardens with hard masses of lava, so as to turn off
the flow of the molten streams in other directions; but the lava bursts through the walls again
and again, and the gardens are often utterly burnt up and ruined. Almost every field at the
base of Vesuvius contains a neat little oratory, with a statue of the Virgin and Child, to which
the cultivators repair in times of peril and calamity. But chapel, statue, and gardens are alike
swept away by the tremendous descent of the molten lava.

As the night was growing dark, I made my way from these riskful farms to Rosina, a little village
on the way back to Naples. As I had had nothing to eat or drink during this thirst-producing
journey, I went into a wine shop and asked for some refreshment. The wine shop was a sort of
vault, with a door like that of a coach-house, but with a bench and narrow table. The good woman
brought me a great green glass bottle like a vitriol carboy! It contained more than six gallons
of wine, and she left me with a big glass to satisfy my wants. The wine was the veritable
Lachryma, Christi-- a delightful light claret-- for producing which the vineyards at the base
of Vesuvius are famous. After some most glorious swigs from this generous and jovial carboy, accompanied
with some delightful fresh made bread, I felt myself up to anything. After washing down the dust
that I had swallowed during the day, I settled with my liberal landlady (indeed she was mightily
pleased with only tenpence), and started for Naples.

I had still an eight-mile walk before me, but that was nothing to my vigorous powers at that time.
The moon had risen during my stay in the wine house, and it shone with a bright clear light. After
a few miles'walking I felt a little tired, for the day's exercise had been rather toilsome.
A fine carriage passed me on the road with a most tempting platform behind. I hailed the driver, and
was allowed to mount. I was soon bowling along the lava paved road, and in a short time I arrived
at Naples. I made another excursion to the crater of Vesuvius before I left, as well as visits
to Herculaneum and Pompeii, which exceedingly interested me. But these I need not attempt to
relate. I refer my readers to Murray's Guide Book, where both are
admirably described.

After completing my business affairs at Naples, and sowing the seeds of several orders, which afterwards
bore substantial results, I left the city by the same line of steamers. I passed again Civita
Vecchia, Leghorn, Genoa, and Marseilles. On passing through the South of France I visited
the works of several of our employers, and carried back with me many orders. It was when at
Creuzot that I saw the child of my brain, the steam hammer, in full and efficient work. But this
I have referred to in a previous chapter.

CHAPTER 15. Steam Hammer Pile-driver.

In 1840 I furnished Sir Edward Parry with a drawing of my steam hammer, in the hope that I might
induce him to recommend its adoption in the Royal Dockyards. Sir Edward was at that time the
head director of the steam marine of England. That was after the celebrity he had acquired
through his Arctic voyages. I was of opinion that the hammer might prove exceedingly useful
in forging anchors and large iron work in those great establishments. Sir Edward appeared to
be much struck with the simplicity and probable efficiency of the invention. But the Admiralty
Board were very averse to introducing new methods of manufacturing into the dockyards. Accordingly,
my interview with Sir Edward Parry, notwithstanding his good opinion,
proved fruitless.

Time passed by. I had furnished steam hammers to the principal foundries in England. I had
sent them abroad, even to Russia. At length it became known to the Lords of the Admiralty
that a new power in forging had been introduced. This was in 1843, three years after I had submitted
my design to Sir Edward Parry. The result was that my Lords appointed a deputation of intelligent
officers to visit my foundry at Patricroft to see the new invention.

It consisted of Captain Benison (brother of the late Speaker), and Captain Burgman, Resident
Engineer at Devonport Dockyard. They were well able to understand the powerful agency of the
steam hammer for marine forge work. I gave them every opportunity for observing its action.
They were much pleased, and I may add astonished, at its range, power,
and docility.

Besides showing them my own steam hammer, I took the deputation to
the extensive works of Messrs. Rushton and Eckersley, where they saw
one of my five-ton hammer-block steam hammers in full action.

It was hammering out some wrought-iron forgings of the largest class, as well as working upon
smaller forgings. By exhibiting the wide range of power of the steam hammer, these gentlemen were entirely
satisfied of its fitness for all classes of forgings for the naval service. They reported to
the Admiralty accordingly, and in a few days we received an official letter, with an order for a
steam hammer having a 50 cwt. hammer-block, together with the appropriate boiler, crane, and
forge furnace, so as to equip a complete forge shop at Devonport Dockyard. This was my first order
from the Government for a steam hammer.

When everything was ready, I set out for Devonport to see the hammer and the other portions of
the machinery carefully erected.

In about a fortnight it was ready for its first stroke. As good luck would have it, the Lords
of the Admiralty were making their annual visit of inspection to the dockyard that day. They
arrived too late in the afternoon for a general inspection of the establishment; but they asked
the superintending admiral if there was anything of importance which they might see before the
day closed. The admiral told them that the most interesting novelty in the dockyard was the
starting of Nasmyth's steam hammer. "Very well, they said," let us
go and see that ".

I was there, with the two mechanics I had brought with me from Patricroft to erect the steam
hammer. I took share and share alike in the work. The Lords were introduced to me, and I proceeded
to show them the hammer. I passed it through its paces. I made it break an eggshell in a wine-glass
without injuring the glass. It was as neatly effected by the two-and-a-half ton hammer as
if it had been done by an egg-spoon. Then I had a great mass of white-hot iron swung out of
the furnace by a crane and placed upon the anvil block. Down came the hammer on it with ponderous
blows. My Lords scattered to the extremities of the workshop, for the splashes and sparks of
hot metal flew about. I went on with the hurtling blows of the hammer, and kneaded the mass
of iron as if it had been clay into its devised forms.

After finishing off the forging, my Lords gathered round the hammer again, when I explained to
them the rationale of its working, and the details of its construction. They were greatly interested,
especially Mr. Sidney Herbert (afterwards Lord Herbert of Lea), then
Secretary to the Admiralty, and Sir George Cockburn, a fine specimen
of the old admiral.

Indeed, all the members of the Board were more or less remarkable men. They honoured me with their
careful attention, and expressed their admiration at the hammer's wonderful range of power and
delicacy of touch, in this new application of the force of steam.

The afternoon was a most important one for me in more ways than one, although I cannot venture to trouble
my readers with the details. It was followed, however, by an order to supply all the Royal Dockyard
forge departments with a complete equipment of steam hammers, and all the requisite accessories.
These were supplied in due time, and gave in every case the highest satisfaction. The forgings
were found to be greatly better, and almost absurdly cheaper than those done by the old bit
by bit building-up process. The danger of flaws was entirely done away with; and, in the case
of anchors, this was a consideration of life and death to the seamen, who depend for their
safety upon the soundness of the forgings.

Besides my introduction to that admirable man, Mr. Sidney Herbert, I had the happiness of being
introduced to Captain Brandreth, Director of Naval Works.

The whole of the buildings on shore, including the dockyards, were under his control. One
of the most important affairs that the Lords of the Admiralty had to attend to on their visit
to Devonport was to conclude the contract for constructing the great docks at Keyham. This
was a large extension of the Devonport Docks, intended for the accommodation of the great steamships
of the Royal Navy, as well as for an increase of the graving docks and workshops for their repair.
An immense portion of the shore of the Hamoaze had to be walled in so as to exclude the tide
and enable the space to be utilised for the above purposes. To effect this a vast amount of pile-driving
was rendered necessary, in order to form a firm foundation for the great outer dock wall, about
a mile and a quarter in length.

Messrs. Baker and Sons were the contractors for this work. They were present at the first start of
my steam hammer at Devonport. They were, like the others, much impressed by its vast power and
manageableness. They had an interview with me as to its applicability for driving piles for the
immense dock, this being an important part of their contract. Happily, I had already given some
attention to this application of the powers of the steam hammer. In fact, I had secured a patent
for it. I had the drawings for the steam hammer pile-driving machine with me. I submitted them
to Mr. Baker, and he saw its importance in a moment." That, "he'said," is the very thing that
I want to enable me to complete my contract satisfactorily. "Thousands of enormous piles had to
be driven down into the deep silt of the Shore; and to have driven them down by the old system
of pile-driving would have occupied a long time, and would also have
been very expensive.

The drawings were of course submitted to Captain Brandreth. He was delighted with my design.
The steam pile-driver would be, in his opinion, the prime agent for effecting the commencement
of the great work originated by himself. At first the feat of damming out such a high tide as
that of the Hamoaze seemed very doubtful, because the stiff slate
silt was a treacherous and difficult material to penetrate.

But now, he thought, the driving would be rendered comparatively easy. With Captain Brandreth's
consent the contractors ordered of me two of my steam hammer pile-drivers. They were to be
capable of driving 18-inch square piles of 70 feet in length into
the silt of the Hamoaze.

[Image] Space to be enclosed at the Hamoaze This first order for
my pile-driver was a source of great pleasure to me.

I had long contemplated this application of the power of the steam hammer. The machine had long been
in full action in my" mind's eye, "and now I was to see it in actual reality. I wrote down
to my partner by that night's post informing him of the happy circumstance. The order was
for two grand steam hammer pile-drivers, each with four-ton hammer-blocks. The wrought-iron guide
case and the steam cylinder were to weigh in all seven tons. All this weight was to rest on the
shoulders of the pile. The blows were to be about eighty in the minute. This, I thought, would
prove thoroughly effective in rapidly driving the piles down into the earth. I have said that
the steam pile-driver was in my mind's eye long before I saw it in
action.

It is one of the most delightful results of the possession of the constructive faculty, that
one can build up in the mind mechanical structures and set them to
work in imagination, and observe beforehand the various details performing
their respective functions, as if they were in absolute material form
and action. Unless this happy faculty exists ab initio in the brain of
the mechanical engineer, he will have a hard and disappointing life
before him.

It is the early cultivation of the imagination which gives the right flexibility to the thinking
faculties. Thus business, commerce, and mechanics are all the better for a little healthy imagination.
So soon as I had returned home, I set to work and prepared the working drawings of the steam
pile-drivers.

They were soon completed, conveyed to Devonport, and erected on the spot where they were to
be used. They were ready on the 3d of July 1845. Some preliminary pile-driving had been done in the
usual way, in order to make a stage or elevated way for my pile-driver
to travel along the space where the permanent piles were to be driven.

I arranged my machines so that they might travel by their own locomotive powers along the whole length
of the coffer dam, and also that they should hoist up the great logs of Baltic timber which formed
the Piles into their proper places before being driven. The entire apparatus of the machine was
erected on a strong timber platform, and was placed on wheels, so that it might move along the rails
laid down upon the timber way.

The same boiler that supplied the steam hammer part of the apparatus served to work the small
steam-engine fixed to the platform for its locomotion, and also to perform the duty of rearing
the next pile which had to be driven. The steam was conveyed to the hammer cylinder by the
jointed pipe seen in the annexed engraving. The pipe accommodated itself to any elevation or descent
of the hammer.

The whole weight of the cylinder, hammer-block, and guide box, supported by the shoulders of the
pile, amounting to seven tons in all, rested upon the shoulders of the pile as a" persuader;
"and the eighty blows per minute of the four-ton hammer came down with tremendous energy upon the
top of the pile head. No soil, that piles could penetrate, could resist such effective agencies.
[Image] Diagram of the Steam Pile-Driver Explanation of the Diagram of the Steam Pile-Driver.-- The
chief feature of novelty of this pile-driving machine consists in
the employment of the direct action of the Steam Hammer as the blow
giving agent, and also in the manner in which the dead weight of the
entire apparatus, consisting of the hammer-block C, the steam cylinder
A, and its guide-case B, is employed to importantly aid the effect
of the rapid and energetic blows of the steam hammer.

These ponderous parts rest on the shoulders of the pile H all the
while it is being driven, the pile in this respect being the only
support of the apparatus A B C. So that, besides the eighty blows
per minute that the four-ton steam hammer energetically deals out
to the head of the pile from a four foot fall the dead weight of the
apparatus constantly acts as a most effective" predisposer "to the
sinking of the pile into the ground; the hoisting chain D being let
slack the while, so as to allow A B C to" follow down "the pile H,
while the eighty blows per minute are incessantly showered on its
head.

The upward stroke of the piston,
with its attached hammer-block C, is arrested at the proper height not only
by allowing the steam that raised it to escape, but as soon as the piston
passes the escape holes X X, the confined air above the piston at O
rebounds, and so aids most effectively in increasing the energy of
the fall of the hammer-block C on the pile head. There was a great deal of
curiosity in the dockyard as to the action of the new machine.

The pile-driving machine-men gave me a good-natured challenge to vie with them in driving down
a pile. They adopted the old method, while I adopted the new one. The resident managers sought
out two great pile logs of equal size and length-- 70 feet long and 18 inches square. At a given
signal we started together. I let in the steam, and the hammer at once began to work. The
four-ton block showered down blows at the rate of eighty a minute; and in the course of four and
a half minutes my pile was driven down to the required depth. The men working at the ordinary
machine had only begun to drive. It took them upwards of twelve hours to complete the driving of their
pile! Such a saving of time in the performance of similar work-- by steam versus manual labour--
had never before been witnessed. The energetic action of the steam hammer, sitting on the shoulders
of the pile high up aloft, and following it suddenly down, the rapidly hammered blows keeping time
with the flashing out of" the waste steam at the end of each stroke,
was indeed a remarkable sight.

When my pile was driven, the hammer-block and guide case were speedily re-hoisted by the small engine that
did all the labouring and locomotive work of the machine; the steam hammer portion of which was then
lowered on to the shoulders of the next pile in succession. Again
it set to work. In a few minutes my companion hooked an utu, a sluggish fish, somewhat like a salmon
in appearance, with shining silvery scales and a broad flat head. As he was hauling in, and
I was looking over the side of the canoe to watch it coming up, I felt a sharp, heavy tug at
my own line, and, before I could check it, thirty or forty yards of line whizzed through my
fingers with lightning speed.

"Lahe'u!" shouted the teacher, hurriedly making his own line fast, and whipping up his paddle.
"Don't give out any more line or he will run under the reef, and we shall lose him."

I knew by the vibration and hum of the line as soon as I had it well in hand that there was
a heavy and powerful fish at the end. Ioane, disregarding the utu as being of no importance
in comparison to a lahe'u, was plunging his paddle rapidly into the water, and endeavouring
to back the canoe seaward into deeper water, but, in spite of his efforts and my own, we were
being taken quickly inshore. For some two or three minutes the canoe was dragged steadily landward,
and I knew that once the lahe'u succeeded in getting underneath the overhanging ledge of reef,
there would be but little chance of our taking him except by diving, and diving on a moonless
night under a reef, and freeing a fish from jagged branches of coral, is not a pleasant task,
although an Ellice Islander does not much mind it. To outsiders it might appear a very troublesome
and roundabout way of getting at the finally desired result. But I feel certain that there
is no better method of rooting chemical or any other instruction, deeply in our minds. Indeed,
I regret that the same system is not pursued by young men of the present day. They are seldom,
if ever, called upon to exert their own wits and industry to obtain the requisites for their
instruction. A great deal is now said about "technical education"; but how little there is
of technical handiness or head work!

Everything is bought ready made to their hands; and hence there is
no call for individual ingenuity.

I
often observe, in shop-windows, every detail of model ships and model steam-engines, supplied
ready made for those who are "said to be" of an ingenious and mechanical
turn.

Thus the vital uses of resourcefulness are done away with, and a sham exhibition of mechanical
genius is paraded before you by the young impostors-- the result, for the most part, of too free a supply
of pocket money. I have known too many instances of parents, led by such false evidence of
constructive skill, apprenticing their sons to some engineering firm; and, after paying vast
sums, finding out that the pretender comes out of the engineering shop with no other practical
accomplishment than that of cigar-smoking!

The truth is that the eyes and the fingers-- the bare fingers-- are the two principal inlets
to sound practical instruction. They are the chief sources of trustworthy knowledge as to all
the materials and operations which the engineer has to deal with, No book knowledge can avail
for that purpose. The nature and properties of the materials must come in through the finger ends. Hence,
I have no faith in young engineers who are addicted to wearing gloves. Gloves, especially kid
gloves, are perfect non-conductors of technical knowledge. This has really more to do with
the efficiency of young aspirants for engineering success than most
people are aware of!

CHAPTER 6. Mechanical Beginnings.

I left the High School at the end of 1820. I carried with me a small amount of Latin, and no Greek.
I do not think I was much the better for my small acquaintance with
the dead languages.

I wanted something more living and quickening. I continued my studies at private classes. Arithmetic
and geometry were my favourite branches. The three first books of Euclid were to me a new intellectual
life. They brought out my power of reasoning. They trained me mentally. They enabled me to arrive
at correct conclusions, and to acquire a knowledge of absolute truths. It is because of this
that I have ever since held the beautifully perfect method of reasoning, as exhibited in the exact
method of arriving at Q. E. D., to be one of the most satisfactory
efforts and exercises of the human intellect.

Besides visiting and
taking part in the works at Patterson's foundry, and joining in the
chemical experiments at Smith's laboratory, my father gave me every
opportunity for practising the art of drawing.

Denison Gets Another Ship

Owing to reduced circumstances, and a growing hatred of the hardships of the sea, young Tom
Denison (ex-supercargo of the South Sea Island trading schooner Palestine) had sailed from
Sydney to undertake the management of an alleged duck-farm in North Queensland. The ducks,
and the vast area of desolation in which they suffered a brief existence, were the property
of a Cooktown bank, the manager of which was Denison's brother. He was a kind-hearted man,
who wanted to help Tom along in the world, and, therefore, was grieved when at the end of three
weeks the latter came into Cooktown humping his swag, smoking a clay pipe, and looking exceedingly
tired, dirty, and disreputable generally. This information surprised as well as pleased me. Mr.
Stubbs proceeded to give me an account of the origin of this peculiar system of cottage manufacture
in his neighbourhood. It appears that Hugo de Lupus, William the Conqueror's Master of Arms,
the first Earl of Chester, settled in North Cheshire shortly after the Conquest. He occupied
Halton Castle, and his workmen resided in Warrington and the adjacent villages of Appleton, Widnes,
Prescot, and Cuerdley. There they produced coats of steel, mail armour, and steel and iron weapons,
under the direct superintendence of their chief.

The manufacture thus founded continued for many centuries. Although the use of armour was discontinued,
the workers in steel and iron still continued famous. The skill that had formerly been employed
in forging chain armour and war instruments was devoted to more peaceful purposes. The cottage
workmen made the best of files and steel tools of other kinds. Their talents became hereditary,
and the manufacture of wire in all its forms is almost peculiar to Warrington and the neighbourhood.
Mr. Stubbs also informed me that most of the workmen's peculiar names for tools and implements
were traceable to old Norman-French words. He also stated that at Prescot a peculiar class of workmen
has long been established, celebrated for their great skill in clock and watchmaking; and
that, in his opinion, they were the direct descendants of a swarm
of workmen from Hugo de Lupus's original Norman hive of refined metal-workers,
dating from the time of the Conquest.

To return to my narrative. In the midst of such a habitually industrious population, it will
be obvious that there was no difficulty in finding a sufficient supply of able workmen. It
was for the most part the most steady, respectable, and well-conducted classes of mechanics
who sought my employment-- not only for the good wages they received, but for the sake of their
own health and that of their families; for it will be remembered
that the foundry and the workmen's dwellings were surrounded by the
fresh, free, open country.

In the course of a few years the locality became a thriving colony of skilled mechanics. In
order to add to the accommodation of the increasing numbers, an additional portion of land,
amounting to eight acres, was leased from Squire Trafford on the same terms as before. On this land
suitable houses and cottages for the foremen and workmen were erected. At the same time substantial
brick workshops were built in accordance with my original general plan, to meet the requirements
of our rapidly expanding business, until at length a large and commodious factory was erected, as
shown in the annexed engraving.

[Image] Bridgewater Foundry Patricroft. From a painting by Alexander
Nasmyth.

The village of Worsley, the headquarters of the Bridgewater Canal,
supplied us with a valuable set of workmen.

They were, in the first place, labourers; but, like all Lancashire men, they were naturally
possessed of a quick aptitude for mechanical occupations connected with machinery. Our chief
employment of these so-called labourers was in transporting heavy castings and parts of machinery
from one place to another. To do this properly required great care and judgment, in order that
the parts might not be disturbed, and that the mechanics might proceed towards their completion
without any unnecessary delay. None but those who have had practical acquaintance with the importance
of having skilful labourers to perform these apparently humble, but in reality very important
functions, can form an adequate idea of the value of such services.

All the requisite qualities we required were found in the Worsley labourers. They had been accustomed
to the heaviest class of work in connection with the Bridgewater
Canal.

They had been thoroughly trained in the handling of all manner of ponderous objects. They performed
their work with energy and willingness. It was quite a treat to me to look on and observe their
rapid and skilful operations in lifting and transporting ponderous portions of machinery, in
which a vast amount of costly work had been embodied.

After the machines or engines had been finished, it was the business of the same workmen to
remove them from the workshops to the railway-siding alongside the foundry, or to the boats at
the canal wharf.

In all these matters the Worsley men could be thoroughly depended
upon.

Where they showed the possession, in any special degree, of a true mechanical faculty, I was enabled
to select from the working labourers the most effective men to take charge of the largest and
most powerful machine tools-- such as planing machines, lathes, and boring machines. The ease
and rapidity with which they caught up all the technical arts and manipulations connected with
the effective working of these machines was extraordinary.

The results were entirely satisfactory to myself, as well as to the men themselves, by the
substantial rise in their wages which followed their advancement
to higher grades of labour.

Thus I had no difficulty in manning my machine tools by drawing my recruits from this zealous and
energetic class of Worsley labourers.

It is by this "selection of the fittest" that the true source of
the prosperity of every large manufacturing establishment depends.

I believe that Free Trade in Ability has a much closer relation to national prosperity than even
Free Trade in Commodities.

But here I came into collision with another class of workmen-- those who are of opinion that employers
should select for promotion, not those who are the fittest and most skilful, but those who
have served a seven years'apprenticeship and are members of a Trades'Union.
It seemed to me that this interference with the free selection and
promotion of the fittest was at variance with free choice of the best
men, and that it was calculated, if carried out, to strike at the
root of the chief source of our prosperity.

If every workman of the same class went in the same rut, and were paid the same uniform rate
of wages, irrespective of his natural or acquired ability, such a
system would destroy the emulative spirit which forms the chief basis
of manipulative efficiency and practical skill, and on which, in
my opinion, the prosperity of our manufacturing establishments mainly
depends.

But before I proceed to refer to the strike of Unionists, which for a time threatened to destroy,
or at all events to impede the spirit of enterprise and the free choice of skilful workmen, in which
I desired to conduct the Bridgewater Foundry, I desire to say a few words about those excellent
helpers, the foremen engineers, who zealously helped me in my undertaking from beginning to
end. I must place my most worthy, zealous, and faithful Archy Torry at the
top of the list. He rose from being my only workman when I first started
in Manchester, to be my chief general foreman. The energy and devotion
which he brought to bear upon my interests set a high example to all in my
employment. Although he was in some respects deficient in his knowledge of
the higher principles of engineering and mechanical construction,
I was always ready to supply that defect.

His hearty zeal and cheerful temper, and his energetic movement when
among the men, had a sympathetic influence upon all about him.

His voice had the same sort of influence upon them as the drum and fife on a soldier's march:
it quickened their movements. We were often called in by our neighbour manufacturers to repair
a breakdown of their engines. That was always a sad disaster, as all hands were idle until the repair
was effected. Archy was in his glory on such occasions. By his ready
zeal and energy he soon got over the difficulty, repaired the engines,
and set the people to work again.

He became quite famous in these cases of extreme urgency. He never spared himself, and his example had
an excellent effect upon every workman under him. Another of my favourite workshop lieutenants
was James Hutton. He had been leading foreman to my worthy friend George Douglass, of Old Broughton,
Edinburgh.

He was fully ten years my senior, and when working at Douglass's I looked up to him as a man
of authority. I had obtained from him many a valuable wrinkle in mechanical and technical construction.
After I left Edinburgh he had emigrated to the United States for the purpose of bettering his condition.
But he promised me that if disappointed in his hopes of settling
there, he should be glad to come into my service if I was ever in
a position to give him employment.

Shortly after my removal to Patricroft, and when everything had been got into full working order,
I received a letter from him in which he said that he was anxious to return to England, and asking
if there was any vacancy in our establishment that he might be employed to fill up. It so happened
that the foremanship of turners was then vacant.

I informed Hutton of the post; and on his return to England he was duly enrolled in our staff. The situation
was a very important one, and Hutton filled it admirably. He was a sound practical man, and
thoroughly knew every department of engineering mechanism. As I had provided small separate rooms
or offices for every department of the establishment for the use of the foremen, where they
kept their memoranda and special tools, I had often the pleasure of conferring with Hutton
as to some point of interest, or when I wished to pass my ideas and
designs through the ordeal of his judgment, in order that I might
find out any lurking defect in some proposed mechanical arrangement.

Before he gave an opinion, Hutton always took a pinch of snuff to
stimulate his intellect, or rather to give him a little time for
consideration.

He would turn the subject over in his mind. But I knew that I could
trust his keenness of insight.

He
would give his verdict carefully, shrewdly, and truthfully.

Hutton remained a faithful and valued servant in the concern for nearly
thirty years, and died at a ripe old age.

Notwithstanding his mechanical intelligence, Hutton was of too cautious
a temperament to have acted as a general foreman or manager, otherwise
he would have been elevated to that position. A man may be admirable
in details, but be wanting in width, breadth, and largeness of temperament
and intellect. The man who possesses the latter gifts becomes great
in organisation; he soon ceases to be a "hand," and becomes a "head,"
and such men generally rise from the employed to be the employer.

Another of my excellent assistants was John Clerk. He had been for
a long time in the service of Fairbairn and Lillie; but having had
a serious difference with one of the foremen, he left their service
with excellent recommendations.

I soon after engaged him as foreman of the pattern-making department.

He was a most able man in some of the more important branches of
mechanical engineering.

He had, besides, an excellent knowledge of building operations. I found him of great use in superintending
the erection of the additional workshops which were required in proportion as our business extended.
He made out full-sized chalk-line drawings from my original pencil sketches, on the large floor
of the pattern store, and from these were formed the working drawings
for the new buildings.

He had a wonderful power of rapidity and clearness in apprehending new subjects, and the way in which
he depicted them in large drawings was quite masterly.

John Clerk and I spent many an hour on our knees together on the pattern
store floor, and the result of our deliberations usually was some
substantial addition to the workshops of the foundry, or some extra
large and powerful machine tool.

This worthy man left our service to become a partner in an engineering concern in Ireland; and though
he richly deserved his promotion, he left us to our very great regret. The last of our foremen to
whom I shall refer was worthy Thomas Crewdson. He entered our service as a smith, in which pursuit
he displayed great skill. We soon noted the high order of his natural ability; promoted him from the
ranks, and made him foreman of the smith's and forge-work department. In this he displayed
every quality of excellence, not only in seeing to the turning out of the forge work in the
highest state of perfection, but in managing the men under his charge with such kind discretion as
to maintain the most perfect harmony in the workshops. This is always a matter of great importance--
that the foreman should inspire the workmen with his own spirit, and keep up their harmony
and activity to the most productive point. Crewdson was so systematic in his use of time that we
found that he was able also to undertake the foremanship of the boiler-making department, in
addition to that of the smith work; and to this he was afterwards appointed,
with highly satisfactory results to all concerned.

So strongly and clearly impressed is my mind with the recollection of the valuable assistance which I
received during my engineering life from those vicegerents of practical
management at Patricroft, that I feel that I cannot proceed further
in my narrative without thus placing the merits of these worthy men
upon record.

It was a source of great good fortune to me to be associated with them, and I consider them to have
been among the most important elements in the prosperity of the Bridgewater
Foundry.

There were many others, in comparatively humble positions, whom I
have also reason to remember with gratitude. In all well-conducted
concerns the law of "selection of the fittest" sooner or later comes
into happy action, when a loyal and attached set of men work together
harmoniously for their own advantage as well as for that of their
employers.

It was not, however, without some difficulty that we were allowed to carry out our views as to Free
Trade in Ability. As the buildings were increased, more men were taken on-- from Manchester,
Bolton, Liverpool, as well as from more distant places. We were soon made to feel that our idea of
promoting workmen according to their merits, and advancing them to improved positions and
higher wages in proportion to their skill, ability, industry, and natural intelligence, was quite
contrary to the views of many of our new employees. They took advantage
of a large access of orders for machinery, which they knew had come
into the foundry, to wait upon us suddenly, and to lay down their Trade
Union law for our observance.

The men who waited upon us were deputed by the Engineer Mechanics'Trades'Union to inform us that
there were men in our employment who were not, as they termed it, "legally entitled to the trade;" that is,
they had never served a regular seven years'apprenticeship. "These
men," said the delegates, "are filling up the places, and keeping
out of work, the legal hands."

We were accordingly requested to discharge the workmen whom we had
promoted, in order to make room for members of the Trades'Union. To have
complied with this request would have altered the whole principles
and practice on which we desired to conduct our business.

I wished, and my partner agreed with me, to stimulate men to steadfast
and skilful work by the hope of promotion.

It was thus that I had taken several of the Worsley men from the rank
of labourers, and raised them to the class mechanics with correspondingly
higher wages. We were perfectly satisfied with the conduct of these workmen,
and with the productive results of their labour.

We thought it fair to them as well as to ourselves to resist the
order to discharge them, and we consequently firmly refused to submit
to the dictation of the Unionists.

The delegates left us with a distinct intimation that if we continued to retain the illegal
men in our employment they would call out the Union men, and strike until "the grievance" was redressed.
The Unionists, no doubt, fixed upon the right time to place their case before us. We wanted more workmen
to execute the advantageous orders which had come in; and they thought that the strike would
put an entire stop to our operations. On engaging the workmen we had never up to this time concerned
ourselves with the question of whether they belonged to the Trades'Union or not. The only proof
we required of a man was Ability.

If, after a week's experience, he proved himself an efficient workman, we engaged him. The strike
took place. All the Union men were "called out," and left the works. Many of them expressed
their great regret at leaving us, as they were perfectly satisfied with their employment as well
as with their remuneration. But they were nevertheless compelled to
obey the mandate of the Council.

The result was that more than half of our men left us. Those who remained were very zealous.
Nothing could exceed their activity and workfulness.

We appealed to our employers. They were most considerate in not pressing us for the speedy execution
of the work we had in hand. We made applications in the neighbourhood for other mechanics in
lieu of those who had left us. But the men on strike, under orders from the Union, established
pickets round the works, who were only too efficient in preventing those desirous of obtaining
employment from getting access to the foundry. Our position for a time seemed to be hopeless.
We could not find workmen enough to fill our shops or to execute
our orders.

What were we to do under the circumstances? We could not find mechanics in the neighbourhood;
but might they not, be found elsewhere? Why not bring them from a
distance?

We determined to try. Advertisements were inserted in the Scotch newspapers, announcing our want
of mechanics, smiths, and foundrymen. We appointed an agent in Edinburgh, to whom applications were to
be made. We were soon in receipt of the welcome intelligence that numbers of the best class
of mechanics had applied, and that our agent's principal difficulty consisted in making the
proper selection from amongst them. A selection was, however, made of over sixty men, who
appeared in every respect likely to suit us. With true Scotch caution they deputed two of their
number to visit our works and satisfy themselves as to the real state of the case. We had great pleasure
in receiving these two clear-headed cautious pioneers.

We showed them over the workshops, and pointed out the habitations in the neighbourhood with their attractive
surroundings. The men returned to their constituents, and gave such a glowing account of their
mission that we had no difficulty in obtaining the men we required. Indeed, we might easily
have obtained three times the number of efficient mechanics. Sixty-four of the most likely men
were eventually selected, men in the zenith of their physical powers. We made arrangements for their
conveyance to Glasgow, from whence they started for Liverpool by steamer. They landed in a body at the
latter port, many of them accompanied by their wives and children, and eight-day clocks! A special
train was engaged for the conveyance of the whole-- men, women, and children, bag and baggage-- from
Liverpool to Patricroft, where suitable accommodation had been provided for them. The arrival
of so powerful a body of men made a great sensation in the neighbourhood.

The men were strong, respectable looking, and well dressed. The pickets were "dumfoundered." They
were brushed to one side by the fresh arrivals. They felt that their game was up, and they suddenly
departed. The men were taken over the workshops, with which they appeared quite delighted. They were
told to be ready to start next morning at six, after which they departed to their lodgings.
The morning arrived and the gallant sixty-four were all present. After allotting to each his special
work, they gave three hearty cheers, and dispersed throughout the workshops. We had no reason
to regret the results which were effected through the strike ordered by the Trades'Union. The new men worked
with a will.

They were energetic, zealous, and skilful. They soon gave evidence of their general handiness
and efficiency in all the departments of work in which they were
engaged.

We were thus enabled to carry out our practice of Free Trade in Ability in our own way, and we were
no longer interfered with in our promotion of workmen who served us best. In short, we had scotched
the strike; we conquered the Union in their wily attempt to get us under their withering control;
and the Bridgewater Foundry resumed its wonted activity in every department. It was afterwards a great
source of happiness to me to walk through the various workshops and observe the cheerful and
intelligent countenances of the new men, and to note the energetic skill with which they used
their tools in the advancement of their work. General handiness is one of the many valuable results that issues
from the practice of handling the variety of materials which are more or less employed in mechanical
structures. At the time that I refer to, the skilful workmen employed in the engineering establishments
of Scotland (which were then comparatively small in size) were accustomed
to use all manner of mechanical tools.

They could handle with equally good effect the saw, the plane, the file, and the chisel; and,
as occasion required, they could exhibit their skill at the smith's forge with the hammer
and the anvil.

This was the kind of workmen with which I had reinforced the foundry. The men had been bred to
various branches of mechanics. Some had been blacksmiths, others carpenters, stone masons,
brass or iron founders; but all of them were handy men. They merely adopted the occupation of machine
and steam-engine makers because it offered a wider field for the exercise of their skill and
energy. I may here be allowed to remark that we owe the greatest advances in mechanical invention to
Free Trade in Ability. If we look carefully into the narratives of the lives of the most remarkable
engineers, we shall find that they owed very little to the seven
years'rut in which they were trained.

They owed everything to innate industry, energy, skill, and opportunity. Thus, Brindley advanced
from the position of a millwright to that of a canal engineer; Smeaton and Watt, from being
mathematical instrument makers, advanced to higher positions,-- the
one to be the inventor of the modern lighthouse, the other to be
the inventor of the condensing steam-engine.

Some of the most celebrated mechanical and civil engineers-- such as Rennie, Cubitt, and Fairbairn--
were originally millwrights. All these men were many-handed. They had many sides to their intellect.
They were resourceful men. They afford the best illustrations of
the result of Free Trade in Ability. The persistent aim at an indolent
equality which Union men aim at, is one of the greatest hindrances
to industrial progress.

When the Union Delegates called upon me to insist that none but men who had served seven years'apprenticeship
should be employed in the works, I told them that I preferred employing a man who had acquired
the requisite mechanical skill in two years rather than another who was so stupid as to require
seven years'teaching. The delegates regarded this statement as preposterous and heretical. In fact, it
was utter high treason. But in the long run we carried our point. It is true, we had some
indenture-bound apprentices. These were pupils who paid premiums. In certain cases we could not very
well refuse to take them. Some of them caused a great deal of annoyance
and disturbance.

They were irregular in their attendance, consequently they could not be depended upon for the
regular operations of the foundry. They were careless in their work, and set a bad example to
the others. We endeavoured to check this disturbing element by stipulating
that the premium should be payable in six months'portions, and that
each party should be free to terminate the connection at the end of
each succeeding six months.

By this system we secured more care and regularity on the part of
the pupil apprentices; as, while it checked inattention and irregularity,
it offered a direct and substantial encouragement to zeal and industry.

But the arrangement which we greatly preferred was to employ intelligent well-conducted young
lads, the sons of labourers or mechanics, and advance them by degrees
according to their merits. The hook is made of wood--in fact, the same as is used for shark-fishing--about one inch
and a half in diameter, fourteen inches in the shank, with a natural curve; the barb, or rather
that which answers the purpose of a barb, being supplied by a small piece lashed horizontally
across the top of the end of the curve. These peculiar wooden hooks are grown; the roots of
a tree called ngiia, whose wood is of great toughness, are watched when they protrude from
a bank, and trained into the desired shape; specimens of these hooks may be seen in almost
any ethnographical museum. To sink the line, coral stones of three or four pounds weight are
used, attached by a very thin piece of cinnet or bark, which, when the fish is struck, is always
broken by its struggles, and falls off, thus releasing the line from an unnecessary weight.
It is no light task hauling in a thick, heavy line, hanging straight up and down for a length
of from seventy-five to a hundred fathoms or more!

Each canoe is manned by four men, only two of whom usually fish, the other two, one at the
bow and the other at the stern, being employed in keeping the little craft in a stationary
position with their paddles. If, however, there is not much current all four lower their lines,
one man working his paddle with one hand so as to keep from drifting. My usual companions were
the resident native teacher and two stalwart young natives of the island--Tulu'ao and Muli'ao;
and I may here indulge in a little vanity when I say that my success as a palu-fisher was regarded
as something phenomenal, only one other white man in the group, a trader on the atoll of Funafuti,
having ever caught a palu, or, in fact, tried to catch one. But then I had such beautiful tackle
that even the most skilled native fisherman had no chance when competing with me. My lines
were of twenty-seven-strand white American cotton, as thick as a small goose-quill, and easily
handled, never tangling or twisting like the native cinnet; and my hooks were the admiration
and envy of all who saw them. They were of the "flatted" Kirby type, eyed, but with a curve
in the shank, which was five inches in length, and as thick as a lead-pencil. I had bought
these in Sydney, and during the voyage down had rigged them with snoodings of the very best
seizing wire, intending to use them for shark-fishing. I had smaller ones down to three inches,
but always preferred using the largest size, as the palu has a large mouth, and it is a difficult
matter in a small canoe on a dark night to free a hook embedded in the gullet of a fish which
is awkward to handle even when exhausted, and weighing as much as sixty or seventy pounds;
while I also knew that any unusual noise or commotion would be almost sure to attract some
of those most dangerous of all night-prowlers of the Pacific, the deep-water blue shark.

Paddling out due westward from the lee side of the island, where the one village is situated,
we would bring-to in about seventy or eighty fathoms. As I always used leaden sinkers, my companions
invariably let me lower first to test the depth, as with a two or three-pound lead my comparatively
thin line took but little time in running out and touching bottom. A whole flying-fish was
used for one bait by the natives, it being tied on to the inner curve of the great wooden hook,
whilst I cut one in half, fore-and-aft, and ran my hook through it lengthwise.

The utmost silence was always observed; and even when lighting our pipes we were always careful
not to let the reflection of the flame of the match fall upon the water, on account of the
sharks, which would at once be attracted to the canoe, and hover about until they were rewarded
for their vigilance by seizing the first palu brought to the surface. Sometimes a hungry shark
will seize the outrigger in his jaws, or get foul of it, and upset the canoe, and a capsize
under such circumstances is a serious matter indeed. For this reason the canoes are never far
apart from each other; if one should be attacked or disabled by a shark the others at once
render assistance, and the shark is usually thrust through with a lance if he is too big to
be captured and killed. All haste is then made to get away from the spot, leaving the disturber
of the proceedings to be devoured by his companions, whom the scent of blood soon brings upon
the scene.

With ordinary luck we would get our first palu within an hour of lowering our lines. At such
a great depth as eighty or ninety fathoms a bite would scarcely be felt by one of my companions
on his thick, heavy, and clumsy line; but on mine it was very different, and there was hardly
an occasion on which I did not secure the first fish. Like most bottom-haunting fish in very
deep water the palu makes but a brief fight. If he can succeed in "getting his head," he will
at once rush into the coral forest amid which he lives, and endeavour to save himself by jamming
his body into a cleft or chasm of rock, and let the hook be torn from his jaws, which are soft,
boneless, and glutinous. Once, however, he is dragged clear of the coral he seems to lose all
heart; and, although he makes an occasional spurt, he grows weaker and weaker as he is dragged
toward the surface, and when lifted into the canoe is apparently lifeless, his large eyes literally
standing out of his head, and his stomach distended like a balloon. So enormous is the distention
of the bladder that sometimes it will protrude from the mouth, and then burst with a noise
like a pistol-shot! Perhaps some of my readers will smile at this, but they could see the same
thing occur with other deep-sea fish besides the palu. The notoriety of Covent Garden is of too
multifarious a description to render the above illustration uninteresting to either of our readers.
It is copied from one of Hollar's prints, and represents the Garden about the time of Charles
II., before its area had been polluted with filth and vegetable odours.

The spot was originally the garden belonging to the abbot of Westminster, which extended to
St. Martin's church, was called the Convent Garden, and may be distinctly traced in Ralph Agar's
View of London, bearing date about 1570. The head is somewhat cod-shaped, with eyes quite as large
as a crown-piece; the teeth are many, small, and soft, and bend to a firm pressure; and the
bones in the fin and tail are so soft and flexible that they may be bent into any shape, but
when dried are of the appearance and consistency of gelatine. The length of the largest palu
I have seen was five feet six inches, with a girth of about forty inches. This one was caught
in about ninety fathoms of water; and when I opened the stomach I found it to contain five
or six undigested fish, about seven inches in length, of the groper species, and for which
the natives of the island had no name or knowledge of beyond the appellation ika kehe--"unknown
fish"--that is, fish which are only seen when taken from the stomach of a deep-sea fish, or
are brought to the surface or washed ashore after some submarine disturbance.

The flesh of the palu is greatly valued by the natives of the equatorial islands of the Pacific
for its medicinal qualities as a laxative, whilst the oil with which it is permeated is much
used as a remedy for rheumatism and similar complaints. Within half an hour of its being taken
from the water the skin changes to a dead black, and the flesh assumes the appearance of whale
blubber. Generally, the fish is cooked in the usual native ground-oven as quickly as possible,
care being taken to wrap it closely up in the broad leaves of the puraka plant--a species of
gigantic taro--in order that none of the oil may be lost. The smith offered him protection, disguised
him as a hammerman, with a leather apron in front, and asked him
to lend a hand at his work.

While
thus engaged a party of the Douglas partisans entered the smithy. They looked with suspicion
on the disguised hammerman, who, in his agitation, struck a false
blow with the sledge hammer, which broke the shaft in two.

Upon this, one of the pursuers rushed at him, calling out, "Ye're nae smyth!" The stalwart
hammerman turned upon his assailant, and, wrenching a dagger from him, speedily overpowered him.
The smith himself, armed with a big hammer, effectually aided in overpowering and driving out the Douglas
men. A party of the royal forces made their appearance, when Naesmyth rallied them, led them against
the rebels, and converted what had been a temporary defeat into a victory. A grant of lands
was bestowed upon him for his service. His armorial bearings consisted of a hand dexter with
a dagger, between two broken hammer-shafts, and there they remain to this day. The motto was, Non
arte sect marte, "Not by art but by war"

In my time I have reversed the motto (Non marte sed arte); and instead of the broken hammer-shafts,
I have adopted, not as my "arms" but as a device, the most potent form of mechanical art-- the Steam
Hammer.

[Image] Origin of the Name. By James Nasmyth.

Sir Michael Naesmyth, Chamberlain of the Archbishop of St. Andrews, obtained the lands of Posso
and Glenarth in 1544, by right of his wife, Elizabeth, daughter and heiress of John Baird of Posso.
The Bairds have ever been a loyal and gallant family.

Sir Gilbert, father of John Baird, fell at Flodden in 1513, in defence
of his king.

The royal eyrie of Posso Crag is on the family estate; and the Lure worn by Queen Mary, and
presented by her son James VI. to James Naesmyth, the Royal Falconer, is still preserved as
a family heirloom.

During the intestine troubles in Scotland, in the reign of Mary, Sir Michael Naesmyth espoused the
cause of the unfortunate Queen. He fought under her banner at Langside in 1568. He was banished, and
his estates were seized by the Regent Moray. But after the restoration of peace, the Naesmyths regained
their property. Sir Michael died at an advanced age.

He had many sons. The eldest, James, married Joana, daughter of William Veitch or Le Veitch of Dawick.
By this marriage the lands of Dawick came into the family. He predeceased his father, and was
succeeded by his son James, the Royal Falconer above referred to. Sir Michael's second son, John,
was chief chirurgeon to James VI. of Scotland, afterwards James I. of England, and to Henry, Prince
of Wales. He died in London in 1613, and in his testament he leaves "his herb to his young master,
the Prince's grace." Charles I., in his instructions to the President of the Court of Session,
enjoins "that you take special notice of the children of John Naesmyth, so often recommended by our
late dear father and us." Two of Sir Michael's other sons were killed at Edinburgh in 1588,
in a deadly feud between the Scotts and the Naesmyths. In those days a sort of Corsican vendetta
was carried on between families from one generation to another.

Sir Michael Naesmyth, son of the Royal Falconer, succeeded to the property. His eldest son James was
appointed to serve in Claverhouse's troop of horse in 1684. Among the other notable members
of the family was James Naesmyth, a very clever lawyer. He was supposed to be so deep that he was
generally known as the "Deil o'Dawyk".

His eldest son was long a member of Parliament for the county of Peebles; he was, besides, a famous
botanist, having studied under Linnaeus, Among the inter-marriages of the family were those
with the Bruces of Lethen, the Stewarts of Traquhair, the Murrays of Stanhope, the Pringles
of Clifton, the Murrays of Philiphaugh, the Keiths (of the Earl Marischal's family), the Andersons
of St. Germains, the Marjoribanks of Lees, and others.

In the fourteenth century a branch of the Naesmyths of Posso settled
at Netherton, near Hamilton.

They bought an estate and built a residence. The lands adjoined part of the Duke of Hamilton's estate,
and the house was not far from the palace. There the Naesmyths remained until the reign of
Charles II. The King, or his advisers, determined to introduce Episcopacy, or, as some thought,
Roman Catholicism, into the country, and to enforce it at the point
of the sword.

The Naesmyths had always been loyal until now. But to be cleft by sword and pricked by spear
into a religion which they disbelieved, was utterly hateful to the Netherton Naesmyths. Being
Presbyterians, they held to their own faith....] and they accordingly met on the moors, or
in unfrequented places for worship. The dissenting Presbyterians assumed the name of Covenanters.
Hamilton was almost the centre of the movement. The Covenanters met, and the King's forces were
ordered to disperse them. Hence the internecine war that followed. There were Naesmyths on
both sides-- Naesmyths for the King, and Naesmyths for the Covenant.

In an early engagement at Drumclog, the Covenanters were victorious. They beat back Claverhouse
and his dragoons. A general rising took place in the West Country. About 6000 men assembled
at Hamilton, mostly raw and undisciplined countrymen.

The King's forces assembled to meet them,-- 10,000 well-disciplined troops, with a complete
train of field artillery. What chance had the Covenanters against such a force? Nevertheless,
they met at Bothwell Bridge, a few miles west of Hamilton.

It is unnecessary to describe the action.* [footnote... See the account of a Covenanting Officer in
the Appendix to the Scots Worthies. See also Sir Waiter Scott's Old Mortality, where the battle
of Bothwell Brig is described....] The Covenanters, notwithstanding
their inferior force, resisted the cannonade and musketry of the enemy
with great courage.

They defended the bridge until their ammunition failed. When the English Guards and the artillery
crossed the bridge, the battle was lost. The Covenanters gave way, and fled in all directions; Claverhouse,
burning with revenge for his defeat at Drumclog, made a terrible slaughter of the unresisting fugitives. One of my ancestors
brought from the battlefield the remnant of the standard; a formidable musquet-- "Gun Bothwell" we afterwards
called it; an Andrea Ferrara; and a powder-horn. I still preserve these remnants of the civil war. My
ancestor was condemned to death in his absence, and his property at Netherton was confiscated.
What became of him during the remainder of Charles II.'s reign, and
the reign of that still greater tormentor, James II., I do not know.

He was probably, like many others, wandering about from place to place, hiding "in wildernesses or
caves, destitute, afflicted, and tormented." The arrival of William
III. restored religious liberty to the country, and Scotland was
again left in comparative peace.

My ancestor took refuge in Edinburgh, but he never recovered his property at Netherton. The Duke
of Hamilton, one of the trimmers of the time, had long coveted the possession of the lands, as
Ahab had coveted Naboth's vineyard.

He took advantage of the conscription of the men engaged in the Bothwell
Brig conflict, and had the lands forfeited in his favour.

I remember my father telling me that, on one occasion when he visited the Duke of Hamilton in reference
to some improvement of the grounds adjoining the palace, he pointed out to the Duke the ruined
remains of the old residence of the Naesmyths. As the first French Revolution was then in full
progress, when ideas of society and property seemed to have lost their bearings, the Duke good-humouredly
observed, "Well, well, Naesmyth, there's no saying but what, some of
these days, your ancestors'lands may come into your possession again!"

Before I quit the persecutions of "the good old times," I must refer to the burning of witches.
One of my ancient kinswomen, Elspeth Naesmyth, who lived at Hamilton, was denounced as a witch.
The chief evidence brought against her was that she kept four black cats, and read her Bible with two
pairs of spectacles! a practice which shows that she possessed the
spirit of an experimental philosopher.

In doing this she adopted a mode of supplementing the power of spectacles in restoring the receding
power of the eyes. She was in all respects scientifically correct. She increased the magnifying
power of the glasses; a practice which is preferable to using single glasses of the same power, and which
I myself often follow. Notwithstanding this improved method of reading her Bible, and her four
black cats, she was condemned to be burned alive!

She was about the last victim in Scotland to the disgraceful superstition of witchcraft. The Naesmyths
of Netherton having lost their ancestral property, had to begin the world again. They had to begin
at the beginning. But they had plenty of pluck and energy. I go back to my great-great-grandfather,
Michael Naesmyth, who was born in 1652. He occupied a house in the Grassmarket, Edinburgh,
which was afterwards rebuilt, in 1696. His business was that of a builder and architect. His
chief employment was in designing and erecting new mansions, principally
for the landed gentry and nobility.

Their old castellated houses or towers were found too dark and dreary for modern uses. The drawbridges
were taken down, and the moats were filled up. Sometimes they built the new mansions as an addition to the old. But oftener
they left the old castles to go to ruin; or, what was worse, they made use of the stone and other
materials of the old romantic buildings for the construction of their new residences. Michael Naesmyth
acquired a high reputation for the substantiality of his work. His masonry was excellent, as
well as his woodwork. The greater part of the latter was executed in his own workshops at the back of
his house in the Grassmarket.

His large yard was situated between the back of the house and the high wall that bounded the
Greyfriars Churchyard, to the east of the flight of steps which forms the main approach to George
Heriot's Hospital. [Image] Michael Naesmyth's House, Grassmarket.

The lower building at the right hand corner of the engraving, with the three projecting gable ends
The last work that Michael Naesmyth was engaged in cost him his life.

He had contracted with the Government to build a fort at Inversnaid, at the northern end of
Loch Lomond. It was intended to guard the Lowlands, and keep Rob Roy and his caterans within
the Highland Border. A promise was given by the Government that during the progress of the work
a suitable force of soldiers should be quartered close at hand to
protect the builder and his workmen.

[Image] Inversnaid Fort. After a drawing by Alexander Nasmyth Notwithstanding many whispered
warnings as to the danger of undertaking such a hazardous work, Michael
Naesmyth and his men encamped upon the spot, though without the protection
of the Government force.

Having erected a temporary residence for their accommodation, he
proceeded with the building of the fort.

The work was well advanced by the end of 1703, although the Government had treated all Naesmyth's
appeals for protection with evasion or contempt. Winter set in with its usual force in those
northern regions. One dark and snowy night, when Michael and his men had retired to rest, a loud knocking
was heard at the door. "Who's there?" asked Michael. A man outside
replied, "A benighted traveller overt aken by the storm"

He proceeded to implore help, and begged for God's sake that he might
have shelter for the night.

Naesmyth, in the full belief that the traveller's tale was true, unbolted and unbarred the door, when
in rushed Rob Roy and his desperate gang. The men, with the dirks of the Macgregors at their
throats, begged hard for their lives. This was granted on condition that they should instantly
depart, and take an oath that they should never venture within the
Highland border again.

Michael Naesmyth and his men had no alternative but to submit, and they
at once left the bothy with such scanty clothing as the Macgregors
would allow them to carry away.

They were marched under an armed escort through the snowstorm to the Highland border, and were there left
with the murderous threat that, if they ever returned to the fort, they would meet with certain death.
Another attempt was made to build the fort at Inversnaid. But Rob Roy again surprised the small
party of soldiers who were in charge. They were disarmed and sent about their business. Finally,
the fort was rebuilt, and placed under the command of Captain (afterwards General) Wolfe. When
peace fell upon the Highlands and Rob Roy's country became the scene of picnics, the fort was
abandoned and allowed to go to ruin. Poor Michael never recovered from the cold which he caught during
his forced retreat from Inversnaid.

The effects of this, together with the loss and distress of mind which he experienced from the
Government's refusal to pay for his work-- notwithstanding their promise to protect him and his
workmen from the Highland freebooters-- so preyed upon his mind that he was never again able
to devote himself to business.

One evening,
whilst sitting at his fireside with his grandchild on his knee, a
death-like faintness came over him; he set the child down carefully
by the side of his chair, and then fell forward dead on his hearthstone.

Thus ended the life of Michael Naesmyth in 1705, at the age of fifty-three. He was buried by the
side of his ancestors in the old family tomb in the Greyfriars Churchyard.

[Image] The Naesmyth Tomb in Greyfriars Churchyard This old tomb, dated 1614, though much defaced,
is one of the most remarkable of the many which surround the walls of that ancient and memorable burying-place.
Greyfriars Churchyard is one of the most interesting places in Edinburgh.

The National Covenant was signed there by the Protestant nobles and
gentry of Scotland in 1638.

The prisoners taken at the battle of Bothwell Brig were shut up
there in 1679, and, after enduring great privations, a portion of
the survivors were sent off to Barbadoes. When I first saw the tombstone,
an ash tree was growing out of the top of the main body of it, though
that has since been removed.

In growing, the roots had pushed out the centre stone, which has not been replaced. The tablet over
it contains the arms of the family, the broken hammer-shafts, and the motto "Non arte sed marte."
There are the remains of a very impressive figure, apparently rising
from her cerements.

The body and extremities remain, but the head has been broken away. There is also a remarkable
motto on the tablet above the tombstone-- "Ars mihi vim contra Fortunce;
which I take to be," Art is my strength in contending against Fortune,
"-- a motto which is appropriate to my ancestors as well as to myself.

The business was afterwards carried on by Michael's son, my great-grandfather.

He was twenty-seven years old at the time of his father's death, and lived to the age of seventy-three. He
was a man of much ability and of large experience.

One of his great advantages in carrying on his business was the support of a staff of able and
trustworthy foremen and workmen. The times were very different then from what they are now. Masters
and men lived together in mutual harmony. There was a kind of loyal family attachment among them,
which extended through many generations. Workmen had neither the desire nor the means to shift
about from place to place. On the contrary, they settled down with their wives and families in
houses of their own, close to the workshops of their employers. Work was found for them in the dull
seasons when trade was slack, and in summer they sometimes removed to jobs at a distance from headquarters.
Much of this feeling of attachment and loyalty between workmen and their
employers has now expired.

Men rapidly remove from place to place. Character is of little consequence. The mutual feeling
of goodwill and zealous attention to work seems to have passed away. My grandfather, Michael Naesmyth,
succeeded to the business in 1751. He more than maintained the reputation of his predecessors. The
collection of first-class works on architecture which he possessed,
such as the folio editions of Vitruvius and Palladio, which were at
that time both rare and dear, showed the regard he had for impressing
into his designs the best standards of taste.

The buildings he designed and erected for the Scotch
nobility and gentry were well arranged, carefully executed, and thoroughly
substantial. He was also a large builder in Edinburgh. Amongst the houses
he erected in the Old Town were the principal number of those in
George Square.

In one of these, No. 25, Sir
Walter Scott spent his boyhood and youth. They still exist, and exhibit
the care which he took in the elegance and substantiality of his works.
I remember my father pointing out to me the extreme care and attention with
which he finished his buildings. He inserted small fragments of basalt
into the mortar of the external joints of the stones, at close and regular
distances, in order to protect the mortar from the adverse action
of the weather. And to this day they give proof of their efficiency.
The basalt protects the joints, and at the same time gives a neat and
pleasing effect to what would otherwise have been merely the monotonous
line of mason-work. Many natives, however--particularly
an old Rarotongan named Hapai, who lived in Apia, and was the proud capturer of several ta~nifa--gave
me a reliable description, which I afterwards verified.

A ta~nifa ten feet long, they assured me, was an enormously bulky and powerful creature with
jaws and teeth much larger than an ocean-haunting shark of double that length; the width across
the shoulders was very great, and although it generally swam slowly, it would, when it had
once sighted its prey, dart along under the water with great rapidity without causing a ripple.
At a village in Savaii, a powerfully built woman who was incautiously bathing at the mouth
of a stream was seized by one of these sharks almost before she could utter a cry, so swiftly
and suddenly was she attacked. Several attempts were made to capture the brute, which continued
to haunt the scene of the tragedy for several days, but it was too cunning to take a hook and
was never caught.

This particular ta~nifa, which had been seen by the young Manono chief and his men on the preceding
evening had made its appearance soon after darkness had fallen and had cruised to and fro across
the mouth of the Vaivasa till the tide began to fall, when it made its way seaward through
a passage in the reef. It was, so Li'o assured me, quite eight feet in length and very wide
across the head and shoulders. The water was clear and by the bright starlight they had discerned
its movements very easily; once it came well into the river and remained stationary for some
minutes, lying under about two feet of water. Some of the Manono men, hailing a picket of the
enemy on the opposite bank of the river, asked for a ten minutes' truce to try and shoot it;
this was granted, and standing on top of the sandy trench, half a dozen young fellows fired
a volley at the shark from their Sniders. None of the bullets took effect and the ta~nifa sailed
slowly off again to cruise to and fro for another hour, watching for any hapless person who
might cross the river.

Just as the kava was being handed round, some children who were on watch cried out that the
ta~nifa had come. Springing to his feet, Li'o again hailed the enemy's picket on the other
side, and a truce was agreed to, so that "the white men could have a look at the ma|lie"--shark.

Thirty or forty yards away was what seemed to be a huge, irregular and waving mass of phosphorus
which, as it drew nearer, revealed the outlines of the dreaded fish. It came in straight for
the mouth of the creek, passed over the pebbly bar, and then swam leisurely about in the brackish
water, moving from bank to bank at less than a dozen feet from the shore. The stream of bright
phosphorescent light which had surrounded its body when it first appeared had now, owing to
there being but a minor degree of phosphorus in the brackish water, given place to a dulled,
sickly, greenish reflection, accentuated however by thin, vivid streaks, caused by the exudation
from the gills of a streaming, viscid matter, common to some species of sharks, and giving
it a truly terrifying and horrible appearance. He afterwards went to Brucksal, and then to Strasburgh,
in which city he commenced his medical studies, and became a pupil of the celebrated Professor
Hermann. From Strasburgh he removed to Vienna, where he commenced practice, having taken the
degree of M. D. In this capital, however, he was not permitted to develope his new system of
the functions of the brain; and from his lectures being interdicted, and the illiberal opposition
which he here met with, as well as in other parts of Austria, he
determined to visit the north of Germany.

Here he was well received in all the cities through which he passed, as well as in Prussia,
Sweden, and Denmark, and explained the doctrines he had founded on his observations from nature
before several sovereigns, who honoured him with such marks of approbation and respect as
were due to his talents. In the course of his travels he likewise visited England, and at
length, in 1807, settled in Paris, where his reputation had already preceded him, and which,
from its central situation, he considered as the fittest place for disseminating his system.
In this city, in 1810, he published his elaborate work on the brain,
the expenses of which were guaranteed by one of his greatest friends
and patrons, Prince Metternich, at that time Austrian minister at
the court of France.

It was natural to expect that the system of Dr. Gall, which differed so widely from the long confirmed
habits of thinking, and having to contend with so many prejudices, should encounter a large
host of adversaries; for if phrenology be true, all other systems of the philosophy of the human
mind must consequently be false. Then making our end of the line fast to the trunk of a
coconut tree, we set some children to watch, and went into the trenches to drink some kava,
smoke, and gossip.

We had not long to wait--barely half an hour--when we heard a warning yell from the watchers.
The ta~nifa was in sight.

Jumping up and tumbling over each other in our eagerness we rushed out; but alas! too late
for the shark; for instead of approaching in its usual leisurely manner, it made a straight
dart at the bait, and before we could free our end of the line it was as taut as an iron bar,
and the creature, with the hook firmly fastened in his jaw, was ploughing the water into foam,
amid yells of excitement from the natives. Then suddenly the line fell slack, and the half-a-dozen
men who were holding it went over on their backs, heels up.

In mournful silence we hauled it in, and then, oh woe! the hook, our prized, our beautiful
hook, was gone! and with it two feet of the chain, which had parted at the centre swivel. That
particular ta~nifa was seen no more. 

I have on so many occasions found the great value of this simple yet most secure mode of fixing delicate
work in the lathe, that I feel sure that any one able to appreciate its practical value will be
highly pleased with the results of its employment.

The same means can, in many cases, be employed in fixing delicate work in the planing-machine.
All that is requisite is to have a clean-planed wrought-iron or brass fixing-plate, to which the
work in hand can be attached at a few suitable parts with soft solder, as in the case of the turning
lathe above described.

1828. A Method of casting Specula for Reflecting Telescopes, so as to ensure perfect Freeness from
Defects, at the same time enhancing the Brilliancy of the Alloy.

My father possessed a very excellent achromatic spy-glass of 2 inches diameter. The object-glass
was made by the celebrated Ramsden. When I was about fifteen I used it to gaze at the moon, planets,
and sun-spots.

Although this instrument revealed to me the general characteristic details of these grand objects,
my father gave me a wonderful account of what he had seen of the moon's surface by means of
a powerful reflecting telescope of 12 inches diameter, made by Short-- that justly celebrated
pioneer of telescope making. It had been erected in a temporary observatory
on the Calton Hill, Edinburgh.

These descriptions of my father's so fired me with the desire to obtain a sight of the glorious
objects in the heavens through a more powerful instrument than the spy-glass, that I determined
to try and make a reflecting telescope which I hoped might in some
degree satisfy my ardent desires.

I
accordingly searched for the requisite practical instruction in the pages of the Encyclopedia
Britannica, and in other books that professed to give the necessary technical information on the
subject.

I found, however, that the information given in books-- at least in the books to which I had access
was meagre and unsatisfactory.

Nevertheless I set to work with all earnestness, and began by compounding
the requisite alloy for casting a speculum of 8 inches diameter.

This alloy consisted of 32 parts of copper, 15 parts of grain tin, and 1 part of white arsenic.
These ingredients, when melted together, yielded a compound metal which possessed a high degree
of brilliancy. Having made a wooden pattern for my intended 8-inch diameter speculum, and
moulded it in sand, I cast this my first reflecting telescope speculum according to the best
book instructions.

I allowed my casting to cool in the mould in the slowest possible
manner; for such is the excessive brittleness of this alloy (though
composed of two of the toughest of metals) that in any sudden change
of temperature, or want of due delicacy in handling it, it is very
apt to give way, and a fracture more or less serious is sure to result.

Even glass, brittle though it be, is strong in comparison with speculum metal of the above proportions,
though, as I have said, it yields the most brilliant composition.

Notwithstanding the observance of all due care in respect of the annealing of the casting by slow
cooling, and the utmost care and delicate handling of it in the process of grinding the surface
into the requisite curve and smoothness suitable to receive the final polish,-- I was on more
than one occasion inexpressibly mortified by the sudden disruption and breaking up of my speculum.
Thus many hours of anxious care and labour proved of no avail. I had to begin again and proceed da
capo.

       I observed, however, that the surplus alloy that was left in the
crucible, after I had cast my speculum, when again melted and poured
out into a metal ingot mould, yielded a cake that, brittle though
it might be, was yet strong in comparison with that of the speculum
cast in the sand mould; and that it was also, judging from the fragments
chipped from it, possessed of even a higher degree of brilliancy.

The happy thought occurred to me of substituting an open metal mould
for the closed sand one.

"Otway," said the junior partner, "can you make room on the Tucopia for two more passengers--nice
people, a clergyman and his wife."

"D----all nice people, especially clergymen and their wives," he answered promptly--for although
the youngest supercargo in the firm, he was considered, the smartest--and took every advantage
of the fact. "I'm sick of carting these confounded missionaries about, Mr. Harry. Last trip
we took two down to Tonga--beastly hymn-grinding pair, who wanted the hands to come aft every
night to prayers, and played-up generally with the discipline of the ship. Robertson never
interfered, and old Bruce, who is one of the psalm-singing kidney himself, encouraged the beasts
to turn the ship into a floating Bethel."

"Mr. Harry" laughed good-naturedly. "Otway, my boy, you mustn't put on so much side--the firm
can't afford it. If you hadn't drunk so much whisky last night you would be in a better temper
this morning."

"Oh, if you've got some one else to take my billet on the Tucopia, why don't you say so, instead
of backing and filling about, like a billy-goat in stays? I don't care a damn if you load the
schooner up to her maintop with sky-pilots and their dowdy women-kind. I've had enough of 'em,
and I hereby tender you my resignation. I can get another and a better ship to-morrow, if--"

"Sit down, you cock-a-hoopy young ass," and "Mr. Harry" hit the supercargo a good-humoured
but stiff blow in the chest. "These people aren't missionaries; they're a cut above the usual
breed. Man's a gentleman; woman's as sweet as a rosebud. Now look here, Otway; we give you
a pretty free hand generally, but in this instance we want you to stretch a point--you can
give these people berths in the trade-room, can't you?"

The supercargo considered a moment. "There's a lot returning this trip. First, there's the
French priest for Wallis Island--nice old buffer, but never washes, and grinds his teeth in
his sleep--he's in the cabin next to mine; old Miss Wiedermann for Tonga--cabin on starboard
side--fussy old cat, who is always telling me that she can distinctly hear Robertson's bad
language on deck. But her brother is a good sort, and so I put up with her. Then there's Captain
Burr, in the skipper's cabin, two Samoan half-caste girls in the deck-house--there's going
to be trouble over those women, old Bruce says, and I don't doubt it--and the whole lot will
have their meals in the beastly dog-kennel you call a saloon, and I call a sweat-box."

"Thank you, Mr. Otway. Your elegant manner of speaking shows clearly the refining influence
of the charming people with whom you associate. Just let me tell you this--you looked like
a gentleman a year or two ago, but become less like one every day."

"No wonder," replied Otway sullenly, "the Island trade is not calculated to turn out Chesterfields.
I'm sick enough of it, now we are carrying passengers as well as cargo. I suppose the firm
will be asking us supercargoes to wear uniform and brass buttons soon, like the ticket collector
on a penny ferry."

"Quite likely, my sulky young friend--quite likely, if it will pay us to do so."

"Then I'll clear out, and go nigger-catching again in the Solomons. That's a lot better than
having to be civil to people who worry the soul out of you, are always in the way at sea, and
a beastly nuisance in port. Why, do you know what old Miss Weidermann did at Manono, in Samoa,
when we were there buying yams three months ago?"

"No; what did she do?"

"Got the skipper and myself into a howling mess through her infernal interference; and if the
chiefs and old Mataafa himself had not come to our help there would have been some shooting,
and this firm could never have sent another ship to Manono again. It makes me mad when I think
of it--the silly old bundle of propriety and feminine spite."

"Tell me all about it, Otway. We had waited very long; but at last we heard the distant sound
of the cheers, which came on and on, louder and louder.

The High Street was wedged with people excited and anxious. There seemed scarcely room for a
regiment to march through them. The house-tops and windows were crowded with spectators. It was
a grand sight. The high-gabled houses reaching as far as the eye could see, St. Giles'with
its mural crown, the Tron Kirk in the distance, and the picturesque details of the buildings,
all added to the effectiveness of the scene.

At last the head of the gallant band appeared. The red coats gradually wedged their way through the
crowd, amidst the ringing of bells and the cheers of the spectators. Every window was in a wave
of gladness, and every house-top was in a fever of excitement. As the red line passed our balcony,
with Colonel Dick at its head, we saw a sight that can never be forgotten. The red-and-white plumes,
the tattered colours riddled with bullets, the glittering bayonets, were seen amidst the crowd
that thronged round the gallant heroes, amidst tears and cheers and hand-shakings and shouts
of excitement. The mass of men appeared like a solid body moving slowly along; the soldiers
being almost hidden amongst the crowd. At last they passed, the pipers and drums playing a
Highland march; and the Forty-Second slowly entered the Castle. It was perhaps the most extraordinary
scene ever witnessed in Edinburgh.

One of my greatest enjoyments when a child was in going out with the servants to the Calton,
and wait while the "claes" bleached in the sun on the grassy slopes of the hill. The air was
bright and fresh and pure. The lasses regarded these occasions as a sort of holiday. One or
two of the children usually accompanied them. They sat together, and the servants told us their
auld-warld stories; common enough in those days, but which have now, in a measure, been forgotten.
"Steam" and "progress" have made the world much less youthful and
joyous than it was then.

The women brought their work and their needles with them, and when
they had told their stories, the children ran about the hill making
bunches of wild flowers-- including harebells and wild thyme.

They ran after the butterflies and the bumbees, and made acquaintance in a small way with the
beauties of nature. Then the servants opened their baskets of provisions, and we had a delightful
picnic. Though I am now writing about seventy years after the date of these events, I can almost
believe that I am enjoying the delightful perfume of the wild thyme and the fragrant plants
and flowers, wafted around me by the warm breezes of the Calton hillside.

In the days I refer to, there was always a most cheerful and intimate
intercourse kept up between the children and the servants.

They were members of the same family, and were treated as such. The servants were for the most
part country-bred-- daughters of farm servants or small farmers. They were fairly educated at
their parish schools; they could read and write, and had an abundant store of old recollections.
Many a pleasant crack we had with them as to their native places, their families, and all that was
connected with them. They became lastingly attached to their masters and mistresses, as well
as to the children.

All this led to true attachment; and when they left; us, for the most part to be married we continued
to keep up a correspondence with them, which lasted for many years. While enjoying these delightful
holidays, before my school-days began, my practical education was
in progress, especially in the way of acquaintance with the habits
of nature in a vast variety of its phases, always so attractive to
the minds of healthy children.

It happened that close to the Calton Hill, in the valley at its northern side, there were many
workshops where interesting trades were carried on; there were coppersmiths, tinsmiths, brass-founders,
goldbeaters, and blacksmiths. Their shops were all arranged in a busy group at the foot of the
hill, in a place called Greenside. The workshops were open to the inspection of passers-by. Little
boys looked in and saw the men at work amidst the blaze of fires and the beatings
of hammers.

Amongst others, I was an ardent admirer. I may almost say that this row of busy workshops was my first
school of practical education. I observed the mechanical manipulation of the men, their dexterous
use of the hammer, the chisel, and the file; and I imbibed many lessons
which afterwards proved of use to me.

Then I had tools at home in my father's workshop. I tried to follow their methods; I became greatly
interested in the use of tools and their appliances; I could make things for myself. In short, I became so
skilled that the people about the house called me "a little Jack-of-all-trades." While sitting
on the grassy slopes of the Calton Hill I would often hear the chimes
sounding from the grand old tower of St. Giles.

The cathedral lay on the other side of the valley which divides the Old Town from the New.
The sounds came over the murmur of the traffic in the streets below. The chime-bells were played
every day from twelve till one-- the old-fashioned dinner-hour of the
citizens.

The practice had been in existence for more than a hundred and fifty years. The pleasing effect
of the merry airs, which came wafted tome by the warm summer breezes, made me long to see them
as well as hear them. [Image] Mural crown of St Giles', Edinburgh My father was always anxious to
give pleasure to his children.

Accordingly, he took me one day, as a special treat, to the top of the grand old tower, to see
the chimes played.

As we passed up the tower, a strong vaulted room was pointed out to
me, where the witches used to be imprisoned.

I was told that the poor old women were often taken down from this dark vault to be burnt alive!
Such terrible tales enveloped the tower with a horrible fascination
to my young mind.

       What a fearful contrast to the merry sound of the chimes issuing
from its roof on a bright summer day.

On my way up to the
top flat, where the chimes were played, I had to pass through the
vault in which the great pendulum was slowly swinging in its ghostly-like
tick-tack, tick-tack; while the great ancient clock was keeping time
with its sudden and startling movement.

The whole scene was almost as uncanny as the witches'cell underneath. There was also a wild rumbling
thumping sound overhead.

I soon discovered the cause of this, when I entered the flat where the musician was at work. He
was seen in violent action, beating or hammering on the keys of a gigantic pianoforte-like
apparatus. The instruments he used were two great leather-faced mallets, one of which he held
in each hand.

Each key was connected by iron rods with the chime-bells above.

The
frantic and mad-like movements of the musician, as he energetically rushed from one key to
another, often widely apart gave me the idea that the man was daft--
especially as the noise of the mallets was such that I heard no music
emitted from the chimes so far overhead.

It was only when I had climbed up the stair of the tower to where the bells were rung that I understood
the performance, and comprehended the beating of the chimes which gave me so much pleasure
when I heard them at a distance.

Another source of enjoyment in my early days was to accompany my mother to the market. As I have said before,
my mother, though generous in her hospitality, was necessarily thrifty and economical in the
management of her household.

       There were no less than fourteen persons in the house to be fed,
and this required a good deal of marketing.

At the time I refer to, (about 1816, it was the practice of every lady who took pride in managing
economically the home department of her husband's affairs, to go to market in person. The principal
markets in Edinburgh were then situated in the valley between the Old and New Towns, in what
used to be called the Nor Loch. Dealers in fish and vegetables had their stalls there: the market for
butcher meat was near at hand: each being in their several locations.
It was a very lively and bustling sight to see the marketing going
on.

When a lady was observed approaching, likely to be a customer, she was at once surrounded by the
"caddies." They were a set of sturdy hard-working women, each with a creel on her back. Their competition
for the employer sometimes took a rather energetic form. The rival candidates pointed to her with violent
exclamations; "She's my ledie! she's my ledie!" ejaculated one and all. To dispel the disorder,
a selection of one of the caddies would be made, and then all was quiet again until another customer
appeared.

There was a regular order in which the purchases were deposited in the creel. First, there
came the fish, which were carefully deposited in the lowest part,
with a clean deal board over them.

The fishwives were a most sturdy and independent class, both in manners and language. When at
home, at Newhaven or Fisherrow, they made and mended their husbands'nets, put their fishing tackle
to rights, and when the fishing boats came in they took the fish to market at Edinburgh. To see the
groups of these hard-working women trudging along with their heavy creels on their backs, clothed
in their remarkable costume, with their striped petticoats kilted up and showing their sturdy
legs, was indeed a remarkable sight. They were cheerful and good-natured, but very outspoken. Their
skins were clear and ruddy, and many of the young fishwives were handsome and pretty. They were,
in fact, the incarnation of robust health.

In dealing with them at the Fish Market there was a good deal of higgling. They often asked two
or three times more than the fish were worth-- at least, according
to the then market price.

After a stormy night, during which the husbands and sons had toiled to catch the fish, on the
usual question being asked, "Weel, Janet, hoo's haddies the day!" "Haddies,
mem? Ou, haddies is men's lives the day!" which was often true, as haddocks
were often caught at the risk of their husbands'lives.

After the usual amount of higgling, the haddies were brought down
to their proper market price,-- sometimes a penny for a good haddock, or,
when herrings were rife, a dozen herrings for twopence, crabs for a penny,
and lobsters for threepence.

For there were no railways then to convey the fish to England, and thus equalise the price for all
classes of the community. Let me mention here a controversy between a fishwife and a buyer called
Thomson. the buyer offered a price so ridiculously small for a parcel of fish that the seller
became quite indignant, and she terminated at once all further higgling. Looking up to him, she
said, "Lord help yer e'e-sight, Maister Tamson!" "Lord help my e'e-sight, woman! What has that to
do with it?" "Ou," said she, "because ye ha'e nae nose to put spectacles on!" As it happened, poor
Mr. Thomson had, by some accident or disease, so little of a nose left, if any at all, that the bridge
of the nose for holding up the spectacles was almost entirely wanting.

And thus did the fishwife retaliate on her niggardly customer. When my mother had got her fish laid
at the bottom of the creel, she next went to the "flesher" for her butcher-meat.
There was no higgling here, for the meat was sold at the ordinary
market price.

Then came the poultry stratum; then the vegetables, or fruits in their
season; and, finally, there was "the floore"-- a bunch of flowers;
not a costly bouquet, but a, large assortment of wallflowers, daffodils
(with their early spring fragrance), polyanthuses, lilacs, gilly-flowers,
and the glorious old-fashioned cabbage rose, as well as the even more
gloriously fragrant moss rose.

The caddy's creel was then topped up, and the marketing was completed. The lady was followed home;
the contents were placed in the larder; and the flowers distributed all over the house. I
have many curious traditional evidences of the great fondness for cats which distinguished the
Nasmyth family for several generations. My father had always one or two of such domestic
favourites, who were, in the best sense, his "familiars." Their quiet, companionable habits rendered
them very acceptable company when engaged in his artistic work. I know of no sound so pleasantly
tranquillising as the purring of a cat, or of anything more worthy of admiration in animal habit
as the neat, compact, and elegant manner in which the cat adjusts
itself at the fireside, or in a snug, cosy place, when it settles
down for a long quiet sleep.

Every spare moment that a cat has before lying down to rest is occupied in carefully cleaning itself,
even under adverse circumstances. The cat is the true original inventor of a sanitary process,
which has lately been patented and paraded before the public as a
sanitary novelty; and yet it has been in practice ever since cats
were created.

Would that men and women were more alive to habitual cleanliness--
even the cleanliness of cats. The kindly and gentle animal gives us all
a lesson in these respects. Then, nothing can be more beautiful in animal
action than the exquisitely precise and graceful manner in which the cat
exerts the exact amount of effort requisite to land it at the height
and spot it wishes to reach at one bound.

The neat and delicately precise manner in which cats use their paws when playing with those
who habitually treat them with gentle kindness is truly admirable.

In
these respects cats are entitled to the most kindly regard. There
are, unfortunately, many who entertain a strong prejudice against
this most perfect and beautiful member of the animal creation, and
who abuse them because they resist ill-treatment, occasioned by their
innate feeling of independence.

Cats have no doubt less personal attachment than dogs, but when kindly treated they become in
many respects attached and affectionate animals. My father, when a boy, made occasional visits to
Hamilton, in the West of Scotland, where the descendants of his Covenanting
ancestors still lived.

One of them was an old bachelor-- a recluse sort of man; and yet
he had the Nasmyth love of cats. Being of pious pedigree and habits,
he always ended the day by a long and audible prayer. My father and his
companions used to go to the door of his house to listen to him, but
especially to hear his culminating finale.

He prayed that the Lord would help him to forgive his enemies and all those
who had done him injury; and then, with a loud burst, he concluded,
"Except John Anderson o'the Toonhead, for he killed my cat, and him
I'll ne'er forgie!

In conclusion, I may again refer to Elspeth Nasmyth, who was burnt alive for witchcraft, because
she had four black cats, and read her Bible through two Pairs of spectacles! CHAPTER 5. My School-days.
Before I went to school it was my good fortune to be placed under the special care of my eldest
sister, Jane. She was twenty years older than myself, and had acquired
much practical experience in the management of the younger members
of the family.

I could
not have had a more careful teacher. She initiated me into the difficulties
of A B C, and by learning me to read she gave me a key to the thoughts
of the greatest thinkers who have ever lived. But all this was accomplished
at first in a humdrum and tentative way.

About seventy years ago children's books were very uninteresting. In
the little stories manufactured for children, the good boy ended in a
Coach-and-four, and the bad boy in a ride to Tyburn.

The good boys must have been a set of little snobs and prigs, and I could scarcely imagine that
they could ever have lived as they were represented in these goody books.
If so, they must have been the most tiresome and uninteresting vermin
that can possibly be imagined.

After my sister had done what she could for me, I was sent to school to
learn" English.

"I was placed under the tuition of a leading teacher called Knight,
whose school-room was in the upper storey of a house in George Street.

Here I learned to read with ease. But my primitive habit of spelling by ear, in accordance
with the simple sound of the letters of the alphabet (phonetically, so to speak) brought me into
collision with my teacher.

I got many a cuff on the side of the head, and many a" palmy "on
my hands with a thick strap of hard leather, which did not give me
very inviting views as to the pleasures of learning.

The master was vicious and vindictive. I think it a cowardly way to deal with a little boy in so
cruel a manner, and to send him home with his back and fingers tingling and sometimes bleeding,
because he cannot learn so quickly as his fellows. On one occasion Knight got out of temper with
my stupidity or dulness in not comprehending something about'a preter-pluperfect tense,'or
some mystery of that sort. He seized me by the ears, and beat my head against the wall behind
me with such savage violence that when he let me go, stunned and
unable to stand, I fell forward on the floor bleeding violently at
the nose, and with a terrific headache.

The wretch might have ruined my brain for life.

I was carried home and put to bed, where I lay helpless for more than a week. My father threatened to summon
the teacher before the magistrates for what might have been a fatal assault on poor little me; but on making
a humble apology for his brutal usage he was let off. Of course I was not sent back to his school.
I have ever since entertained a hatred against grammatical rules. There was at that time an excellent
system of teaching young folks the value of thrift.

This consisted in saving for some purpose or another the Saturdays
penny-- one penny being our weekly allowance of pocket-money.

The feats we could perform in the way of procuring toys, picture-books, or the materials for constructing
flying kites, would amaze the youngsters of the present day, who are generally spoiled by
extravagance. And yet we obtained far more pleasure from our purchases. We had in my time" penny
pigs, "or thrift boxes. They were made in a vase form, of brown glazed
earthenware, the only entrance to which was a slit-- enough to give
entrance to a penny.

When the Saturday's penny was not required for any immediate purposes, it was dropped through the slit,
and remained there until the box was full. The maximum of pennies it
could contain was about forty-eight.

When that was accomplished, the penny pig was broken with a hammer, and its rich contents flowed
forth. The breaking of the pig was quite an event. The fine fat old George the Third penny pieces
looked thoroughly substantial in our eyes. And then there was the spending of the money,-- for some long-looked-for
toy, or pencils, or book, or painting materials.

One of the ways in which I used my Saturday pennies was in going
with some of my companions into the country to have a picnic. We used
to light a fire behind a hedge or a dyke, or in the corner of some
ruin, and there roast our potatoes, or broil a red herring on an extempore
gridiron we contrived for the purpose.

We lit the fire by means of a flint and steel and a tinder-box, which in those days every boy used
to possess. The bramble-berries gave us our dessert. We thoroughly enjoyed
these glorious Saturday afternoons. It gave us quite a Robinson Crusoe
sort of feeling to be thus secluded from the world.

Then the beauty of the scenery amidst which we took our repast was such
as I cannot attempt to describe. A walk of an hour or so would bring
us into the presence of an old castle, or amongst the rocky furze
and heather-clad hills, amidst clear rapid streams, so that, but for
the distant peeps of the city, one might think that he was far from
the busy haunts of men and boys.

To return to my school-days. Shortly after I left the school in George Street, where the schoolmaster
had almost split my skull in battering it upon the wall behind me, I was entered as a pupil
at the Edinburgh High School, in October 1817.

The school was situated near the old Infirmary. Professor Pillans was the rector, and under him
were four masters. I was set to study Latin under Mr. Irvine. He was a mere schoolmaster in the
narrowest sense of the term. He was not endowed with the best of tempers, and it was often put
to the breaking strain by the tricks and negligence of the lower-form
portion of his class.

It consisted of nearly two hundred boys; the other three masters had about the same number of scholars.
They each had a separate class-room.

I began to learn the elementary rudiments of Latin grammar. But not
having any natural aptitude for aquiring classic learning so called,
I fear I made but little progress during the three years that I remained
at the High School.

Had the master explained to us how nearly allied many of the Latin and Greek roots were to our
familiar English words, I feel assured that so interesting and valuable a department of instruction would
not have been neglected. But our memories were strained by being made to say off" by heart, "as
it was absurdly called, whole batches of grammatical rules, with all the botheration of irregular verbs
and suchlike.

So far as I was concerned, I derived little benefit from my High School teaching, except that
I derived one lesson which is of great use in after life. I mean as regards the performance
of duty. I did my tasks punctually and cheerfully, though they were far from agreeable. This
is an exercise in early life that is very useful in later years. In my walks to and from the High
School, the usual way was along the North and South Bridges,-- the first
over the Nor'Loch, now the railway station, and the second over the
Cowgate.

That was the main street between the Old Town and the New. But there were numerous wynds and
closes (as the narrow streets are called) which led down from the High Street and the upper part
of the Canongate to the High School, through which I often preferred
to wander.

So long as Old Edinburgh was confined within its walls the nobles lived
in those narrow streets; and the Old houses are full of historical
incident.

My father often pointed out these houses to me, and I loved to keep up my recollections. I must
have had a little of the antiquarian spirit even then. I got to know the most remarkable of those
ancient houses-- many of which were distinguished by the inscriptions
on the lintel of the entrance, as well as the arms of the former
possessors.

Some had mottoes such as this:" BLESIT BE GOD AND HYS GIFTIS. 1584. "There was often a tower-shaped
projection from the main front of the house, up which a spiral stair proceeded. This is usually
a feature in old Scotch buildings. But in these closes the entrance to the houses was through
a ponderous door, studded with great broad-headed nails, with loopholes
at each side of the door, as if to present the strongest possible
resistance to any attempt at forcible entrance.

Indeed, in the old times before the Union the nobles were often as strong as the King, and many
a time the High Street was reddened by the blood of the noblest and bravest of the land. In
1588 there was a cry of" A Naesmyth, "" A Scott, "in the High Street.
It was followed by a clash of arms, and two of Sir Michael Naesmyth's
sons were killed in that bloody feud.

Edinburgh was often the scene of such disasters. He's a
bit rough in his talk, but he's one of God's own chosen in a boat, and a fine sailor man--better
than the mate, Captain Burr, or myself; isn't that so, Mr. Bruce?"

The white-haired old mate bent his head in acknowledgment. Then he stood up stiff and stark,
his rough bony hands clasped upon his chest.

"I'll no' deny but that Mr. Allen is far and awa' the best man to have charge o' the boat.
But as there is a meenister here, surely he will now offer up a prayer to the Almighty for
those in peril on the sea, and especially implore Him to consider a sma' boat, deep to the
gunwales."

He looked at the clergyman, who at first made no reply, but stood with downcast eyes. The men
looked at him expectantly; he put one hand on the table, and then slowly raised his face.

"I think, gentlemen, that ... that Father Roget is the older man." He spoke haltingly, and
a flush dyed his smooth, clean-shaven face from brow to chin. "Will you not ask him?" Then
his eyes dropped again.

Robertson, who was in a hurry, and yet had a sincere but secret respect for old Bruce's unobtrusive
religious feelings, now backed up his mate's request.

"I think, sir, that as the mate says, a bit of a short prayer would not be out of place just
now, seeing the mess we are in. And that poor old gentleman over there is too done up to stand
on his feet. So will you please begin, sir. Steward, call the ladies. We can no longer disguise
from them, Mr. Lacy, that we are in a bad way--as bad a way as I have ever been in during my
thirty years at sea."

In a couple of minutes the two De Boos girls, Miss Weidermann, and the native girl Mina, came
out of their cabins; and when the steward said that Mrs. Lacy felt too ill to leave her berth,
her husband could not help giving an audible sigh of relief. Then he braced up and spoke with
firmness.

"Please shut Mrs. Lacy's door, steward. Mr. Bruce, will you lend me your church service--I
do not want to go into my cabin for my own. My wife, I fear, has given way."

The mate brought the church service, and then whilst the men stood with bowed heads, and the
women knelt, the clergyman, with strong, unfaltering voice read the second of the prayers "To
be used in Storms at Sea." He finished, and then sitting down again, placed one hand over his eyes.

"The living, the living shall praise Thee."

It was the old mate who spoke. He alone of the men had knelt beside the women, and when he
rose his face bore such an expression of calmness and content, that Otway, who five minutes
before had been silently cursing him for his "damned idiotcy," looked at him with a sudden
mingled respect and wonder.

Stepping across to the clergyman, Bruce respectfully placed his hand on his shoulder, and as
he spoke his clear blue eyes smiled at the still kneeling women.

"Cheer up, sir. God will protect ye and your gude wife, and us all. You, his meenister, have
made supplication to Him, and He has heard. Dinna weep, ladies. We are in the care of One who
holds the sea in the hollow of His hand."

Then he followed the captain and the others on deck, Otway alone remaining to assist the steward.

"For God's sake give me some brandy," said Lacy to him, in a low voice.

Otway looked at him in astonishment. Was the man a coward after all?

He brought the brandy, and with ill-disguised contempt placed it before him without a word.
Lacy looked up at him, and his face flushed.

"Oh, I'm not funking--not a d----d bit, I can assure you."

Otway at once poured out a nip of brandy for himself, and clinked his glass against that of
the clergyman.

"Pon my soul, I couldn't make it out, and I apologise. But a man's nerves go all at once sometimes--can't
help himself, you know. Mine did once when I was in the nigger-catching business in the Solomon
Islands. Natives opened fire on us when our boats were aground in a creek, and some of our
men got hit. The oratory had been converted with great taste into an ante-drawingroom of the
governor's house. The exquisite decorations of this chapel* [footnote... This exquisite specimen
of a carved oak Gothic apartment had a terrible incident in Scottish history connected with it.
It was in this place that The Douglas intruded his presence on James the Third. He urged his
demands in a violent and threatening manner, and afterwards laid
hands upon the king.

The latter, in defending himself with his dagger, wounded the Douglas mortally; and to get rid
of the body the king cast it out of the window of the chapel, where it fell down the precipitous
rock underneath.

The chapel has since been destroyed by fire....] were the first specimens of Gothic carving
in oak that I had ever seen, and they seemed to put our modern carvings to shame. The Great Hall,
where the Scottish Parliament used to meet, was also very interesting as connected with the
ancient history of the country.

From Stirling we walked to Alloa, passing the picturesque cascades
rushing down the cleft's of the Ochils.

We put up for the night at Clackmannan, a very decayed and melancholy-looking village, though
it possessed a fine specimen of the Scottish castellated tower.

It is said that Robert Bruce slept here before the Battle of Bannockburn.

But the most interesting thing that I saw during the journey was the Devon Ironworks. I had read
and heard about the processes carried on there in smelting iron ore and running it into pig-iron.
The origin of the familiar trade term "pig-iron" is derived from
the result of the arrangement most suitable for distributing the molten
iron as it rushes forth from the opening made at the bottom part of
the blast-furnace; when, after its reduction from the ore, it collects
in a fluid mass of several tons weight.

Previous to "tapping" the furnace a great central channel is made in the sand-covered floor
of the forge; this central channel is then subdivided into many lateral
branches or canals, into which the molten iron flows, and eventually
hardens.

The great steam-engine that worked the blast furnace was the largest
I had ever seen.

A singular expedient was employed at these works, of using a vast
vault hewn in the solid rock of the hillside for the purpose of storing
up the blast produced by the engines, and so equalising the pressure;
thus turning a mountain side into a reservoir for the use of a blast-furnace.

This seemed to me a daring and wonderful engineering feat.

We waited at the works until the usual time had arrived for letting out the molten iron which
had been accumulating at the lower part of the blast-furnace. It was a fine sight to see the
stream of white-hot iron flowing like water into the large gutter
immediately before the opening.

From this the molten iron flowed on until it filled the moulds of sand which branched off
from the central gutter. The iron left in the centre, when cooled and broken up, was called sow
metal, while that in the branches was called pig iron; the terms being derived from the appearance
of a sow engaged in its maternal duties.

The pig-iron is thus cast in handy-sized pieces for the purpose of being transported to other
iron foundries; while the clumsy sow metal is broken up and passes through another process of
melting, or is reserved for foundry uses at the works where it is
produced.

After inspecting with great pleasure the machinery connected with
the foundry, we took our leave and returned to Edinburgh by steamer
from Alloa.

Shortly after, I had the good fortune to make the acquaintance of Robert Bald, the well-known mining engineer.
He was one of the most kind-hearted men I have ever known. He was always ready to communicate
his knowledge to young and old.

His sound judgment and long practical experience in regard to coal-mining and the various machinery
connected with it, rendered him a man of great importance in the
northern counties, where his advice was eagerly sought for.

Besides his special knowledge, he had a large acquaintance with literature and science. He was
bright, lively, and energetic. He was a living record of good stories, and in every circle
in which he moved he was the focus of cheerfulness. In fact, there was no greater social favourite
in Edinburgh than Robert Bald.

Bald was very fond of young people, and he became much attached to me. He used to come to my father's
house, and often came in to see what I was about in the work-room. He was rejoiced to see the
earnest and industrious manner in which I was employed, in preparing myself for my proposed
business as an engineer.

He looked over my tools, mostly of my own making, and gave me every encouragement. When he
had any visitors he usually brought them and introduced them to me. In this way I had the happiness
to make the acquaintance of Robert Napier, Nelson, and Cook, of Glasgow;
and in after life I continued to enjoy their friendship.

It would be difficult for me to detail the acts of true disinterested kindness which I continued
to receive from this admirable man.

On several occasions he wished me to accompany him on his business journeys, in order that I might
see some works that would supply me with valuable information. He had designed a powerful pumping
engine to drain more effectually a large colliery district situated near Bannockburn-- close
to the site of the great battle in the time of Robert the Bruce. He invited me to join him. It was
with the greatest pleasure that I accepted his invitation; for there would be not only the pleasure
of seeing a noble piece of steam machinery brought into action for
the first time, but also the enjoyment of visiting the celebrated
Carron Ironworks.

The Carron Ironworks are classic ground to engineers.

They are associated with the memory of Roebuck, Watt, and Miller of Dalswinton. For there Roebuck
and Watt began the first working steam-engine; Miller applied the steam-engine to the purposes
of navigation, and invented the Carronade gun.

The works existed at an early period in the history of British iron manufacture. Much of the
machinery continued to be of wood. Although effective in a general way it was monstrously cumbrous.
It gave the idea of vast power and capability of resistance, while it was far from being so in
reality. It was, however, truly imposing and impressive in its effect upon strangers. When
seen partially lit up by the glowing masses of white-hot iron, with only the rays of bright
sunshine gleaming through a few holes in the roof, and the dark,
black, smoky vaults in which the cumbrous machinery was heard rumbling
away in the distance-- while the moving parts were dimly seen through
the murky atmosphere, mixed with the sounds of escaping steam and
rushes of water; with the half-naked men darting about with masses
of red-hot iron and ladles full of molten cast-iron-- it made a powerful
impression upon the mind.

I was afterwards greatly interested by a collection of old armour,
dug up from the field of the Battle of Bannockburn close at hand.

They were arranged on the walls of the house of the manager of the Carron Ironworks. There were
swords, daggers, lances, battle-axes, shields, and coats of chain-armour. Some of the latter
were whole, others in fragmentary portions. I was particularly interested with the admirable workmanship
of the coats of mail. The iron links extended from the covering of the head to the end of the
arms, and from the shoulders down to the hips, in one linked iron
fabric.

The beauty and exactness with which this chain-armour had been forged and built up were truly
wonderful. There must have been "giants in those days." This grand style of armour was in use
from the time of the Conquest, and was most effective in the way of protection, as it was fitted
by its flexibility to give full play to the energetic action of the
wearer.

It was infinitely superior to the senseless plate-armour that was used, at a subsequent period,
to encase soldiers like lobsters. The chain-armour I saw at Carron
left a deep impression on my mind.

I never see a bit of it, or of its representation in the figures on our grand tombs of the thirteenth
century, but I think of my first sight of it at Carron and of the
tremendous conflict at Bannockburn.

Remembering,
also, the impressive sight of the picturesque fire-lit halls, and the terrible-looking, cumbrous
machinery which I first beheld on a grand scale at Carron, I have
often regretted that some of our artists do not follow up the example
set them by that admirable painter, Wright of Derby, and treat us
to the pictures of some of our great ironworks.

They not only abound with the elements of the picturesque in its highest sense, but also set
forth the glory of the useful arts in such a way as would worthily call forth the highest
power of our artists.

To return to my life at Edinburgh. I was now seventeen years old.

I had acquired a considerable amount of practical knowledge as to the use and handling of mechanical
tools, and I desired to turn it to some account.

I was able to construct working models of steam-engines and other apparatus required for the
illustration of mechanical subjects. I began with making a small working steam engine for
the purpose of grinding the oil-colours used by my father in his
artistic work.

       The result was quite satisfactory.

Many persons came to see my active little steam-engine at work, and they were so pleased with
it that I received several orders for small workshop engines, and also for some models of steam-engines
to illustrate the subjects taught at Mechanics'Institutions.

[Image] Sectional model of condensing steam-engine.

By James Nasmyth I contrived a sectional model of a complete condensing
steam-engine of the beam and parallel motion construction.

The model, as seen from one side, exhibited every external detail in
full and due action when the flywheel was moved round by hand; while,
on the other or sectional side, every detail of the interior was seen,
with the steam-valves and air-pump, as well as the motion of the piston
in the cylinder, with the construction of the piston and the stuffing
box, together with the slide-valve and steam passages, all in due
position and relative movement.

The first of these sectional models of the steam-engine was made for the Edinburgh School of Arts,
where its uses in instructing mechanics and others in the application of steam were highly appreciated.
The second was made for Professor Leslie, of the Edinburgh University, for use in his lectures
on Natural Philosophy. The professor had, at his own private cost,
provided a complete and excellent set of apparatus, which, for excellent
workmanship and admirable utility, had never, I believe, been provided
for the service of any university.

He was so pleased with my addition to his class-room apparatus, that, besides expressing his
great thanks for my services, he most handsomely presented me with a free ticket
to his Natural Philosophy class as a regular student, so long as
it suited me to make use of his instruction.

But far beyond this, as a reward for my earnest endeavours to satisfy
this truly great philosopher, was the kindly manner in which he on
all occasions communicated to me conversationally his original and
masterly views on the great fundamental principles of Natural Philosophy--
especially as regarded the principles of Dynamics and the Philosophy
of Mechanics.

The clear views which he communicated in his conversation, as well as in his admirable lectures,
vividly illustrated by the experiments which he had originated, proved of great advantage to me;
and I had every reason to consider his friendship and his teaching
as amongst the most important elements in my future success as a practical
engineer.

Having referred to the Edinburgh School of Arts, I feel it necessary to say something about
the origin of that excellent institution. A committee of the most distinguished citizens of Edinburgh
was formed for the purpose of instituting a college in which working men and mechanics might possess
the advantages of instruction in the principles on which their various occupations were conducted.
Among the committee were Leonard Horner, Francis Jeffrey, Henry Cockburn, John Murray of Henderland,
Alexander Bryson, James Mline, John Miller, the Lord Provost, and
various members of the Council. Their efforts succeeded, and the institution
was founded.

       The classes were opened in 1821, in which year I became a student.
In order to supply the students, who were chiefly young men of the working
class, with sound instruction in the various branches of science, the
lectures were delivered and the classes were superintended by men of
established ability in their several departments.

This course was regularly pursued from its fundamental and elementary
principles to the highest point of scientific instruction.

The consecutive lectures and examinations extended, as in the University, from October to May in
each year's session. It was, in fact, our first technical college. In these later days when
so many of our so-called Mechanics'Institutes are merely cheap reading-clubs for the middle
classes, and the lectures are delivered for the most part merely for a pleasant evening's amusement,
it seems to me that we have greatly departed from the original design
with which Mechanics'Institutions were founded.

As the Edinburgh School of Arts was intended for the benefit of mechanics, the lectures and classes
were held in the evening after the day's work was over. The lectures
on chemistry were given by Dr. Fyfe-- an excellent man.

His clearness of style, his successful experiments, and the careful
and graphic method by which he carried his students from the first
fundamental principles to the highest points of chemical science,
attracted a crowded and attentive audience.

Not less interesting were the lectures on Mechanical Philosophy,
which in my time were delivered by Dr. Lees and Mr. Buchanan.

The class of Geometry and Mathematics was equally well conducted, though the attendance was not so great.
The building which the directors had secured for the lecture-hall and
class-rooms of the institution was situated at the lower end of Niddry
Street, nearly under the great arch of the South Bridge.

It had been built about a hundred years before, and was formerly used
by an association of amateur musicians, who gave periodical concerts
of vocal and instrumental music.

The orchestra was now converted into a noble lecture table, with accommodation
for any amount of apparatus that might be required for the purposes
of illustration.

The seats were arranged in the body of the hall in concentric segments, with the lecture table
as their centre. In an alcove fight opposite the lecturer might often be seen the directors of
the institution-- Jeffrey, Horner, Murray, and others-- who took every opportunity of dignifying
by their presence this noble gathering of earnest and intelligent
working men.

A
library of scientific books was soon added to the institution, by purchases
or by gifts. Such was the eagerness to have a chance of getting the
book you wanted that I remember standing on many occasions for some
time amidst a number of applicants awaiting the opening of the door
on an evening library night.

It was as crowded as if I had been standing at the gallery door of the theatre on a night when
some distinguished star from London was about to make his appearance.
There was the same eagerness to get a good place in the lecture-room,
as near to the lecture table as possible, especially on the chemistry
nights.

I continued my regular attendance at this admirable institution from 1821 to 1826. I am glad to
find that it still continues in active operation. In November 1880 the number of students attending
the Edinburgh School of Arts amounted to two thousand five hundred!

I have been led to this prolix account of the beginning of the institution
by the feeling that I owe a deep debt of gratitude to it, and because
of the instructive and intellectually enjoyable evenings which I
spent there, in fitting myself for entering upon the practical work
of my life.

The successful establishment of the Edinburgh School of Arts had
a considerable effect throughout the country. Similar institutions were established,
lectures were delivered, and the necessary illustrations were acquired--
above all, the working models of the steam-engine.

There was quite a run upon me for supplying them. My third working model was made to the order
of Robert Bald, for the purpose of being presented to the Alloa Mechanics'Institute;
the fourth was manufactured for Mr. G. Buchanan, who lectured on mechanical
subjects throughout the country; and the fifth was supplied to a Mr.
Offley, an English gentleman who took a fancy for the model when he
came to purchase some of my father's works.

The price I charged for my models was# 10; and with the pecuniary results
I made over one-third to my father, as a sort of help to remunerate
him for my "keep," and with the rest I purchased tickets of admission
to certain classes in the University.

I attended the Chemistry course under Dr. Hope; the Geometry and Mathematical course under Professor
Wallace; and the Natural Philosophy course under my valued friend
and patron Professor Leslie. What with my attendance upon the classes, and my
workshop and drawing occupations, my time did not hang at all heavy
on my hands.

I got up early in the mornings to work at my father's lathe, and I sat up late at night to
do the brass castings in my bedroom. Some of this, however, I did during the day-time, when not
attending the University classes. The way in which I converted my bedroom into a brass foundry
was as follows: I took up the carpet so that there might be nothing but the bare boards to be
injured by the heat. My furnace in the grate was made of four plates of stout sheet-iron, lined
with fire-brick, corner to corner.

To get the requisite sharp draught I bricked up with single bricks the front of the fireplace,
leaving a hole at the back of the furnace for the short pipe just
to fit into.

The fuel was generally gas coke and cinders saved from the kitchen. The heat I raised was superb--
a white heat, sufficient to melt in a crucible six or eight pounds of brass. Then I had a box of moulding
sand, where the moulds were gently rammed in around the pattern previous to the casting. But how did
I get my brass? All the old brassworks in my father's workshop drawers and boxes were laid under
contribution. This brass being for the most part soft and yellow,
I made it extra hard by the addition of a due proportion of tin.
It was then capable of retaining a fine edge.

When I had exhausted the stock of old brass, I had to buy old copper,
or new, in the form of ingot or tile copper, and when melted I added
to it one-eighth of its weight of pure tin, which yielded the strongest
alloy of the two metals.

When cast into any required form this was a treat to work, so sound and close was the grain, and so
durable in resisting wear and tear. This is the true bronze or gun metal. When melted, the liquid
brass was let into the openings, until the whole of the moulds were
filled.

After the metal cooled it was taken out; and when the room was sorted up no one could have known
that my foundry operations had been carried on in my bedroom. My brass foundry was right over my
father's bedroom. He had forbidden me to work late at night, as I did occasionally on the sly.
Sometimes when I ought to have been asleep I was detected by the sound of the ramming in of the
sand of the moulding boxes.

On such occasions my father let me know that I was disobeying his orders by rapping on the ceiling
of his bedroom with a slight wooden rod of ten feet that he kept for measuring purposes. But I
got over that difficulty by placing a bit of old carpet under my moulding boxes as a non-conductor
of sound, so that no ramming could afterwards be heard. My dear mother
also was afraid that I should damage my health by working so continuously.
She would come into the workroom late in the evening, when I was
working at the lathe or the vice, and say, "Ye'll kill yerself, laddie,
by working so hard and so late".

Yet she took a great pride in seeing me so busy and so happy. Nearly the whole of my steam-engine
models were made in my father's workroom.

His foot-lathe and stove, together with my brass casting arrangements
in my bedroom, answered all my purposes in the way of model making.

But I had at times to avail myself of the smithy and foundry that my kind and worthy friend,
George Douglass, had established in the neighbourhood. He had begun
business as "a jobbing smith," but being a most intelligent and energetic
workman, he shot ahead and laid the foundations of a large trade
in steam-engines.

When I had any part of a job in hand that was beyond the capabilities of my father's lathe, or my
bedroom casting apparatus, I immediately went to Douglass's smithy, where every opportunity was
afforded me for carrying on my larger class of work. His place was only about five minutes'walk
from my father's house.

I had the use of his large turning-lathe, which was much more suitable
for big or heavy work than the lathe at home.

When any considerable bit of steel or iron forging had to be done, a forge fire and anvil were always
placed at my service.

In making my flywheels for the sectional models of steam-engines
I had a rather neat and handy way of constructing them.

The boss of the wheel of brass was nicely bored; the arm-holes were carefully drilled and taped,
so as to allow the arms which I had turned to be screwed in and appear like neat columns of round
wrought iron or steel screwed into the boss of the flywheel. In return for the great kindness of George
Douglass in allowing me to have the use of his foundry, I resolved
to present him with a specimen of my handiwork.

I desired to try my powers in making a more powerful steam-engine than
I had as yet attempted to construct, in order to drive the large
turning-lathe and the other tools and machinery of his small foundry.

I accordingly set to work and constructed a direct-acting, high-pressure
steam-engine, with a cylinder four inches in diameter.

I use the term direct acting, because I dispensed with the beam and parallel motion, which
was generally considered the correct mode of transferring the action
of the piston to the crank.

The result of my labours was a very efficient steam-engine, which set all the lathes and mechanical
tools in brisk activity of movement. It had such an enlivening effect
upon the workmen that George Douglass afterwards told me that the
busy hum of the wheels, and the active, smooth, rhythmic sound of
the merry little engine had, through some sympathetic agency, so quickened
the stroke of every hammer, chisel, and file in his workmen's hands,
that it nearly doubled the output of work for the same wages!

The sympathy of activity acting upon the workmen's hands cannot
be better illustrated than by a story told me by my father.

A master tailor in a country town employed a number of workmen. They had been to see some tragic
melodrama performed by some players in a booth at the fair. Have pledged him my word that
    you will give him £500 to land you at Manila or thereabouts; also
    that you will hand it to him as soon as the schooner is clear of the
    land. All your luggage is on board the schooner, awaiting you.
    Allen helped me. You might send him a present by Revels. Goodbye,
    and all good luck. One last word--be quick, be quick!"

"Boat is ready," said Revels.

"Right," and Otway closed the letter and handed it to the mate. "Here you are, Le Brun. Now,
listen. Pull in to the mouth of the creek at the French Mission, just beside the bridge. Leave
your boat there and then take this letter to D'Acosta's Hotel and ask to see Mr. Lacy. If he
and his wife have gone out for a walk, you must follow them and give him the letter; but I
feel pretty sure you'll find them on the verandah. Bring them off on board as quickly and as
quietly as possible. No one will take any notice of the boat in the creek. Oh! and tell Mr.
Lacy to be dead sure not to bring anything in the way of even a small bag with him--Joe D'Acosta
might wonder. I'll settle the hotel bill later on. Are you clear?"

"Clear as mud," replied Le Brun, a big, black-whiskered Guernsey man.

"Then goodbye."

The schooner's boat, manned by two hands only, pushed off, and then Revels turned to Otway.

"Shall I heave short so as to be ready?"

"Heave short, be d----d!" replied Otway testily. "No, just lie nice and quiet, and as soon
as you have your passengers on board slip your cable. I'll see that your anchor is fished up
for you. And even if you lost your anchor and a few fathoms of chain it doesn't matter against
five hundred sovereigns. The people on shore would be sure to hear the sound of the windlass
pawls, and there's a man here from Auckland--a detective--who might make a bold stroke, get
a dozen native bullies and collar you. So slip, my boy, slip. There's a fine healthy breeze
which will take you clear of the reef in ten minutes."

The two men shook hands, and Otway stepped into his boat, which he steered in towards the principal
jetty.

Jumping out he walked along the roadway which led from Matafele to Apia. As he passed the British
Consul's house he saw Mr. O'Donovan standing on the verandah talking to the Consul. He waved
his hand to them, and cheerfully invited the detective to come along to "Johnnie Hall's" and
play a game of billiards.

Mr. O'Donovan, little thinking that Otway had a purpose in view, took the bait. The Consul
knew Otway, and, in a measure, dreaded him, for the supercargo's knowledge of certain transactions
in connection with the sale of arms to natives, in which he (the Consul) had taken a leading
and lucrative part. So when he saw the supercargo of the Tucopia beckoning to O'Donovan he
smiled genially at him, and hurriedly told the detective to go.

"He's a most astute and clever young scoundrel, Mr. O'Donovan, and in a way we are at his mercy.
But you shall have the four hundred pounds in the morning--not later than noon. This man Barton
must be brought to justice at any cost."

"Just so, sir; and you will get a hundred out of the business, any way," replied O'Donovan,
who had gauged the Consul's morality pretty fairly.

As Otway and the detective walked towards the hotel known as "Johnny Hall's" the former said
lazily--

"Look here, Mr. O'Donovan. Are the skipper and myself to get those four hundred sovs to-morrow
or not? To tell you the exact truth, I have a fair amount of doubt about your promise. Where
are you going to get the money?"

"That's all right, Mr. Otway. You're a business man. And you and the skipper will have your
two hundred each before one o'clock to-morrow. The Consul is doing the necessary."

"Right, my boy," said Otway effusively. "Now we'll play a game or two at Johnny's and have
some fun with the girls."

By eleven o'clock Mr. O'Donovan was comfortably half drunk, and Otway led him out on to the
verandah to look at the harbour, shimmering under the starlight. They sat down on two cane
lounges, and the supercargo's keen eye saw that Revel's schooner had gone. He breathed freely,
and then brought Mr. O'Donovan a large whisky and soda.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the morning Mr. O'Donovan and Mr. William Johns, the British Consul, were in a state of
frenzy on discovering that Mr. and Mrs. Lacy had escaped during the night in the schooner Solafanua. I
left Windsor next morning, and walked direct for London. My time was up, but not my money. I had
taken eight sovereigns on setting out from London to Liverpool by coach, and I brought one
sovereign back with me.

Rather than break into it I walked all the way from Windsor to London
without halting for refreshment my entire expenditure during my three
weeks'journey was thus seven pounds.

When I look back upon that tour, I feel that I was amply rewarded. It was throughout delightful
and instructive. The remembrance of it is as clear in my mind now as if I had performed the journey
last year instead of fifty years ago.

There are thousands of details that pass before my mind's eye that
would take a volume to enunerate.

I brought back a book full of sketches; for graphic memoranda are
much better fitted than written words to bring up a host of pleasant
recollections and associations.

I came back refreshed for work, and possessed by an anxious desire
to press forward in the career of industry which I had set before
me to accomplish.

CHAPTER 10.

Begin Business at Manchester Mr. Maudslay arrived from Berlin two days after my return to London.
He, too, had enjoyed his holiday. During his stay in Berlin he had made the friendship of the
distinguished Humboldt. Shenkel, the architect, had been very kind to him, and presented him
with a set of drawings and engravings of his great architectural works, which Mr. Maudslay exhibited to
me with much delight. What he most admired in Shenkel was the great range of his talent in
all matters of design, his minute attention to detail, and his fine
artistic feeling.

Soon after Mr. Maudslay's return, a very interesting job was brought to him, in which he took
even more than his usual interest. It was a machine which his friend Mr. Barton, of the Royal
Mint, had obtained from France. It was intended to cut or engrave the steel dies used for stamping
coin. It was a remarkable and interesting specimen of inventive ingenuity. It copied any object
in relief which had been cast in plaster of Paris or brass from the artist's original wax
model. The minutest detail was transferred to soft steel dies with
absolute accuracy.

       This remarkable machine could copy and cut steel dies either in intaglio
or in cameo of any size, and, in short, enabled the mechanic who managed
it to transfer the most minute and characteristic touches of the original
model to the steel dies for any variety of size of coin.

Nevertheless, the execution of some of the details of the machine were so defective, that after
giving the most tempting proof of its capabilities at the Royal Mint, Mr. Barton found it absolutely
necessary to place it in Maudslay's hands, in order to have its details thoroughly overhauled, and made
as mechanically perfect as its design and intention merited.

This interesting machine was accordingly brought to the private workshop, and placed in the
hands of the leading mechanic, whom I had the pleasure of being associated with, James Sherriff,
one of our most skilled workmen. We were both put to our mettle. It was a job quite to my taste,
and being associated with so skilled a workman as Sherriff, and in constant communication with
Mr. Maudslay, I had every opportunity of bringing my best manipulative ability into action
and use while perfecting this beautiful machine.

It is sufficient to say that by our united efforts, by the technical details suggested by
Mr. Maudslay and carried out by us, and by the practical trials made under the superintendence of Mr.
Wyon of the Mint, the apparatus was at length made perfect and performed its duty to the satisfaction
of every one concerned.

Mr. Maudslay had next a pair of 200 horse-power marine engines put in hand. His sons and partners
were rather opposed to so expensive a piece of work being undertaken without an order. At that
time such a power as 200 horse nominal was scarcely thought of; and
the Admiralty Board were very cautious in ordering marine engines
of any sort.

Nevertheless, the engines were proceeded with and perfected. They formed a noble object in the
great erecting shop. They embodied in every detail all Mr. Maudslay's latest improvements. In
fact the work was the sum total of the great master's inventions and adaptations in marine engines.
The Admiralty at last secured them for the purpose of being placed in a very fine vessel,
the Dee, then in course of construction. Mr. Maudslay was so much pleased with the result that
he had a very beautiful model made of the engines; and finding that I had some artistic skill
as a draughtsman, he set me to work to make a complete perspective
drawing of their great engines as they stood all perfect in the erecting-shop.

This was a work entirely to my taste. In due time I completed a graphic portrait of these noble engines,
treated, I hope, in an artistic spirit. Indeed, such a class of drawing was rarely to be had
from any engineering draughtsman. Mere geometrical drawing could not give a proper idea, as a whole,
of so grand a piece of mechanism. It required something of the artistic spirit to fairly represent
it. At all events my performance won the entire approval of my master.

Mr. Maudslay was a man of a wide range of mechanical abilities. He was always ready to enter
upon any new work requiring the exercise of special skill.

It did not matter whether it was machine tools, engraving dies, block machinery, or astronomical
instruments. While at Berlin he went to see the Royal Observatory. He was naturally much interested
by the fine instruments there-- the works of Repsoldt and Hertz, the pioneers of improved astronomical
workmanship. The continental instrument makers were then far in advance of those of England. Mr. Maudslay
was greatly impressed with the sight of the fine instruments in the Berlin Observatory. He was
permitted to observe some of the most striking and remarkable of the heavenly bodies-- Jupiter,
Saturn, and the Moon. It was almost a new revelation to him; for the subject was entirely novel.
To be able to make such instruments seemed to him to be a glorious achievement of refined mechanism
and manipulative skill. He returned home full of the wonderful sights
he had seen.

It was a constant source of pleasure to him to dwell upon the splendour and magnificence of
the heavenly bodies.

He became anxious to possess a powerful telescope of his own. His principal difficulty was in
procuring a lens of considerable diameter, possessed of high perfection of defining power. I
suggested to him the employment of a reflecting telescope, by means
of which the difficulties connected with the employment of glass could
be avoided.

       This suggestion was based upon some knowledge I had acquired respecting
this department of refined mechanical art.

I knew that the elder Herschel had by this means vastly advanced our knowledge of the heavenly
bodies, indeed to an extent far beyond what had been achieved by the most perfect of glass lens
instruments. Mr. Maudslay was interested in the idea I suggested; and he requested me to show
him what I knew of the art of compounding the alloy called speculum metal. He wished to know how
so brittle a material could be cast and ground and polished, and
kept free from flaws or defects of every kind.

I accordingly cast for him a speculum of 8 inches diameter. I ground and polished it, and had it
fitted up in a temporary manner to exhibit its optical capabilities, which were really of no mean
order. But, as his ambition was to have a grand and powerful instrument of not less than 24 inches
diameter, the preparation for such a speculum became a subject to him of the highest interest.
He began to look out for a proper position for his projected observatory. He made inquiry about
a residence at Norwood, where he thought his instrument might have
fair play.

It would there be free from the smoke and disturbing elements of such a place as Lambeth. His
mind was full of this idea when he was called away by the claims of affection to visit a dear old
friend at Boulogne. He remained there for more than a week, until
assured of his friend's convalescence.

But on his return voyage across the Channel he caught a severe cold. On reaching London he took
to his bed and never left it alive. After three or four weeks'suffering he died on the 14th
of February 1831.

It was a very sad thing for me to lose my dear old master. He was so good and so kind to me in
all ways. He treated me like a friend and companion. He was always generous, manly, and upright
in his dealings with everybody. How his workmen loved him; how his friends lamented him! He began
his life as a mechanic there, and worked his way steadily upwards until he reached the highest
point of his profession. He often returned to Woolwich after he had left it; sometimes to pay a
share of his week's wages to his mother, while she lived; sometimes
to revisit the scenery of his youth.

He liked the green common, with the soldiers about it; Shooter's Hill, with its wide look-out
over Kent and down the valley of the Thames; the river busy with shipping; the Dockyard wharf,
with the royal craft loading and unloading their armaments.

After the death of my master I passed over to the service of his worthy partner, Joshua Field.
I had an equal pleasure in working under him. His kindness in some degree mitigated the sad
loss I had sustained by the death of my lamented friend and employer.

The first work I had to perform for Mr. Field was to assist him in making the working drawings
of a 200 horse-power condensing steam-engine, ordered by the Lambeth Waterworks Company. The
practical acquaintance which I had by this time acquired of the mechanism of steam-engines enabled
me to serve Mr. Field in a satisfactory manner. I drew out in full practical detail the rough
but excellent hand sketches with which he supplied me. They were handed out for execution
in the various parts of the factory; and I communicated with the foremen as to the details
and workmanship.

While I was occupied beside Mr. Field in making these working drawings, he gave me many most valuable
hints as to the designing of machinery in general. In after years I had many opportunities of making
good use of them. One point he often impressed upon me. It was, he said, most important to bear in
mind the get-at-ability of parts-- that is, when any part of a machine
was out of repair, it was requisite to get at it easily without taking
the machine to pieces.

This may appear a very simple remark, but the neglect of such an arrangement occasions a vast amount
of trouble, delay, and expense. None but those who have had to do with the repair of worn-out
or damaged parts of machinery can adequately value the importance
of this subject.

I found Mr. Field to be a most systematic man in all business affairs.

I may specially name one of his arrangements which I was quick to take up and appreciate. I
carried it out with great advantage in my after life. It was, to record subjects of conversation
by means of "graphic" memoranda. Almost daily, persons of note came to consult with him about
machinery.

On these occasions the consultations took place either with reference to proposed new work,
or as to the progress of orders then in hand. Occasionally some novel scheme of applying power
was under discussion, or some new method of employing mechanism: On ordinary occasions rough
and rapid sketches are made on any stray pieces of waste paper that were about, and after the
conversation is over the papers are swept away into the waste basket and destroyed. And yet
some of these rapid drawings involve matters of great interest and
importance for after consultations.

To
avoid such losses, Mr. Field had always placed upon his table a "talking book" or "graphic
diary." When his visitors called and entered into conversation with him about mechanical matters,
he made rapid sketches on the successive pages of the book, and entered the brief particulars
and date of the conversation, together with the name and address
of the visitor.

So that a conversation, once begun, might again be referred to, and, when the visitor called,
the graphic memoranda might be recalled without loss of time, and the consultation again proceeded.
The pages of Mr. Field's "talking books" were in many ways most interesting. They contained data
that, in future years, supplied valuable evidence in respect to first
suggestions of mechanical contrivances, and which sometimes were developed
into very important results.

I may add that Mr. Field kept these "talking books" on a shelf in front of his drawing table.
The back of each volume was marked with the year to which the entries referred, and an index
was appended to each. A general index book was also placed at the end of the goodly range of
these graphic records of his professional life.

The completion of the working drawings of the Lambeth pumping engines occupied me until August
1831. I had then arrived at my twenty-third year. I had no intention of proceeding further as
an assistant or a journeyman. I intended to begin business for my self. Of course I could only begin
in a very small way. I informed Mr. Field of my intention, and he
was gratified with my decision.

Not only so; but he kindly permitted me to obtain castings of one of the best turning-lathes in
the workshops.

       I knew th at when I had fitted it up it would become the parent of
a vast progeny of descendants-- not only in the direct line, but in
planing machines, screw-cutting lathes, and many other minor tools.

At the end of the month, after taking a grateful farewell of Mr. Field and his partners, I set sail for
Leith with my stock of castings, and reached Edinburgh in due time. In order to proceed with the
construction of my machine tools, I rented a small piece of land at Old Broughton. It was at
the rear of my worthy friend George Douglass's small foundry, and was only about five minutes'walk
from my father's house. I erected a temporary workshop 24 feet long
by 16 feet wide.

I removed thither my father's foot-lathe, to which I had previously added an excellent slide-rest
of my own making. I also added a "slow motion," which enabled me to turn cast-iron and cast-steel
portions of my great Maudslay lathe. I soon had the latter complete and in action. Its first child
was a planing machine capable of executing surfaces in the most perfect
style-- of 3 feet long by 1 foot 8 inches wide.

Armed with these two most important and generally useful tools, and by some special additions,
such as boring machines and drilling machines, I soon had a progeny
of legitimate descendants crowded about my little workshop, so that
I often did not know which way to turn.

[Image] My temporary workshop at Edinburgh I had one labourer to
drive the wheel which gave motion to my big lathe; but I was very
much in want of some one else to help me.

One day a young hearty fellow called upon me. He had come from the
Shotts Iron Company's Works in Edinburgh.

Having heard of what I was about, he offered his services. When he told me that he had been bred
as a millwright, and that he could handle the plane and the saw as well as the chisel and the
file, I closed with him at once. He was to have fifteen shillings a week. I liked the young
man very much-- he was so hearty and cheerful.

His name was Archibald Torry, or "Archie," as he was generally called during the twenty years
that he remained in my service I obtained another assistant in the person of a young man whose
father wished him to get an insight into practical engineering. I
was offered a premium of# 50 for twelve months'experience in my workshop.
I arranged to take the young man, and to initiate him in the general
principles and practice of engineering.

The# 50 premium was a very useful help to me, especially as I had engaged the millwright.
It enabled me to pay Torry's wages during the time that he remained
with me in Edinburgh.

I found it necessary, however, to take in some work in the regular way of business, in order to supply
me with the means of completing my proper supply of tools. The chief of these extraneous and, I may
say, disturbing jobs, was that of constructing a rotary steam-engine.
Mr. Robert Steen had contrived and patented an engine of this sort.
He was a dangerously enthusiastic man, and entertained the most visionary
ideas as to steam power.

       He was of opinion that his own contrivance was more compact and simple,
and possessed of more capability of producing power from the consumption
of a given quantity of fuel, than the best steam-engines then in use.

I warned him of his error; but nothing but an actual proof would satisfy him. He urgently requested me
to execute his order. He made me a liberal and tempting offer of weekly payments for my work
during the progress of his engine. He only required that I should
give his invention the benefit of my careful workmanship. He considered
that this would be sufficient to substantiate all his enthusiastic
expectations.

I was thus seduced to accept his order. I made the requisite drawings, and proceeded with the work.
At the same time my own machine tools were in progress, though at a retarded pace. The weekly
payments we're regularly made, and I was kept in a sort of financial
ease.

After three months the rotary engine was finished to the inventor's complete satisfaction. But when the
power it gave out was compared with that of a good ordinary steam-engine, the verdict as to consumption
of fuel was against the new rotary engine.

Nevertheless, the enthusiastic projector, "tho'vanquished he would
argue still," insisted that the merits of his contrivance would sooner
or later cause it to be a most formidable rival to the crank steam-engines.

As he was pleased with its performances, I had no reason to be dissatisfied. I had done my part
in the matter, and Mr. Steen had done his. His punctual weekly payments
had assisted me in the completion of my tools; and after a few months
more labour I had everything ready for starting business on my own
account.

My choice lay between Liverpool and Manchester. I had seen both of
these cities while on my visit to Lancashire to witness the opening
of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway.

I now proceeded to visit them again. I was fortified with valuable introductions to leading men in
both places. I was received by them with great kindness and hospitality. On the whole I have
found a great deal of unselfish kindness among my fellow-beings.
They have often turned out of their way to do me a service; and I
can never be too grateful for the unwearied kindness, civility, and
generosity of the friends I met with during my stay in Lancashire.

It was a question which would be the best place to settle in-- Liverpool or Manchester. I
had seen striking evidences of the natural aptitude of Lancashire workmen for every sort of
mechanical employment, and had observed their unsparing energy while
at work. I compared them with the workmen whom I had seen in London,
and found them superior.

They were men of greater energy of character; their minds were more capacious; their ingenuity was
more inventive. I felt assured that in either Liverpool or Manchester--
the centres of commercial and manipulative energy-- I could settle
down with my limited capital and tools, and in course of time contrive
to get on, helped by energy, self-reliance, and determination.

I also found that the demand for machine-making tools was considerable, and that their production
would soon become an important department of business. It might be
carried on with little expenditure of capital, as the risks were
small and the returns were quick.

I resolved to cultivate that moderate and safe class of mechanical business, at all events at
the outset. I first went to Liverpool. I presented my letter of introduction
to Mr. Roscoe, head of the Mersey Steel and Iron Company. At such places as Nukualofa,
the little capital of the Tonga Islands, an excursion steamer will remain for perhaps forty
hours; at Apia, in Samoa, forty-eight hours; and at Papeite, the capital of the French island
of Tahiti, forty-eight hours. At the two latter places the traveller will be charmed by the
lovely scenery, and disgusted by the squalid appearance of the natives; for within the last
ten years great changes have occurred, and the native communities inhabiting the island ports,
such as Apia and Papeite, have degenerated into the veriest loafers, spongers, and thieves.
The appearance of a strange European in any of the environs of Apia is the signal for an onslaught
of beggars of all ages and both sexes, who will pester his life out for tobacco; if he says
he does not smoke, they say a sixpence will do as well. If he refuses he is pretty sure to
be insulted by some half-naked ruffian, and will be glad to get back to the ship or to the
refuge of an hotel. And yet, away from the contaminating influences of the town the white stranger
will meet with politeness and respect wherever he goes--particularly if he is an Englishman--and
will at once note the pleasing difference in the manners of the natives. Yet it must now be
remembered that Samoa--with the exception of the beautiful island of Tutuila--is German territory,
and German officials are none too effusive to Englishmen or Americans--in Samoa.

But if any one wants to spend an enjoyable time in the South Seas let him avoid the "excursion
ship" and go there in a trading steamer. There are several of these now sailing out of Australasian
ports, and there is a choice of groups to visit. If a four months' voyage is not too long,
a passage may be obtained in a small, but fairly fast and comfortable boat of 600 tons sailing
from Sydney, which visits over forty islands in her cruise from Niué or Savage Island, ten
days' steam from Sydney, to Jaluit in the Marshall Islands. But this particular cruise I would
not recommend to any one in search of a variety of beautiful scenery, for nearly all of the
islands visited are of the one type--low-lying sandy atolls, densely verdured with coco-palms,
and very monotonous from their sameness of appearance. Their inhabitants, however, are widely
different in manners, customs, and general mode of life. To the ethnologist such a cruise among
the Ellice, Gilbert, and Marshall Islands would no doubt be full of interest; but to the traveller
in search of either beautiful scenery or sport (except fishing) they would be disappointing.

Let us suppose that the intending traveller desires to make a stay of some two or three months
in the Samoan Group. He can reach there easily enough from Sydney or Auckland by steamer once
a month, either by one of the Union Steamship Company's regular traders or by one of the San
Francisco mail boats. From Sydney the voyage occupies eight days, from Auckland five. The outfit
required for a three or four months' stay is not a large one--light clothing can be bought
almost as cheaply in Samoa as in Sydney, a couple of guns with plenty of ammunition (for cartridges
are shockingly dear in the Islands), a large and varied assortment of deep-sea tackle, a rod
for fresh-water or reef fishing, and a good waterproof and rugs for camping out, as the early
mornings are sometimes very chilly. And there is one other thing that is worth while taking,
even though it may cost from £30 to £50 or so in Sydney--a good secondhand boat, with two suits
of sails. Thus provided the sportsman can sail all along the coasts of Savaii and Upolu, and
be practically independent of the local storekeepers. To hire a boat is very expensive, and
to travel in native craft is horribly uncomfortable, and risky as well. And such a boat can
always be sold again for at least its cost.

A stay of two or three days, or at most a week, in Apia is quite long enough, and the stranger
will get all the information he requires about the outlying districts from the Consuls or any
of the old white residents. Such provisions as are needed--tea, sugar, flour, biscuits, tinned
or other meats, &c.--can be had at fairly cheap rates; but a large stock should be taken, for,
besides the keep of the native crew of, say, four men, it must always be borne in mind that
a white visitor is expected to return the hospitality he receives from the native chiefs by
making a present, and the Samoans are particularly susceptible to the charms of tinned meats,
sardines, salmon, and falaoa (bread or biscuit). That such a return should be made is only
just and natural, though I am sorry to say that very often it is not. Then, again, it is very
easy to stow away in the trade box in the boat eight or ten pieces of good print, cut off in
pieces of six fathoms (which is enough to make a woman's gown), about 30 lbs. of twist negrohead
tobacco (twenty to thirty sticks to the pound), half a gross of lucifer matches, and such things
as cotton, scissors, combs, &c., and powder, caps, and a bag of No. 3 shot for pigeon shooting.
Now, this seems a lot of articles for a man to take on a short Samoan malaga (journey), but
it is not, and for the £50 which it may cost for such an outfit (exclusive of the boat and
crew's wages) the traveller will see more of the people and their mode of life, be more hospitably
received, and spend a pleasanter time than if he were cruising about in a 1,000-ton yacht.
The wages or boatmen and native sailors in Samoa are usually $15.00 per month, but many will
gladly go on a malaga (the general acceptance of the word is a pleasure trip) for much less,
for there is but little work, and much eating and drinking. But, as sailors, the Samoans are
a wretched lot, and the local living Savage Islanders, as the natives of Niué Island are called,
are far better, especially if there is any wind or a beat to windward in a heavy sea. These
Savage Island "boys" can always be obtained in Apia. They are good seamen and very willing
to work; but they have to be fed entirely by their white employer, for the Samoans seldom make
a present of food to a crew of Niué boys, for whom they profess a contempt and designate au
puáa--i.e., pigs.

The Samoan Group consists of five islands, trending from west by north to east by south. The
two largest are Upolu and Savaii. Tutuila, and the Manua Group of three islands are too far
to the windward to attempt in a small boat against the south-east trades. And it would take
quite three months to visit the principal villages on the two large islands, staying a few
days at each place.

The best plan is to make to windward along the coast of Upolu after leaving Apia. A large boat
cannot be taken all the way inside the reef, owing to the many coral patches which, at low
tide, render this course impracticable. The first place of any importance is Saluafata, fifteen
miles from Apia (I must mention that Apia is in the centre of Upolu, and on the north side),
then Falifa|, an exquisitely pretty place, and then Fa|goloa Bay and village, eight miles further
on. This is the deepest indentation in Samoa, except the famous Pa|go Pa|go Harbour on Tutuila,
and the scenery is very beautiful. After leaving Fa|goloa, the open sea has to be taken, for
there is now no barrier reef for ten miles, where it begins at Samusu village, to the towns
of Aleipata and Lepa|, two of the best in the group, and inhabited by cleanly and hospitable
people. This is the weather point of Upolu, and after leaving Lepa| the boat has a clear run
of over sixty miles before the glorious trades to the lee end of the island--that is, unless
a stay is made at the populous towns of Falealilli, Sa|fata, Lafa|ga, and Falelatai, on the
southern coast. The scenery along this part of the island is enchanting, but sudden squalls
at night-time are sometimes frequent, from December to March, and 'tis always advisable to
run into a port at sunset.

Two miles off the lee end of Upolu is the low-lying island of Manono, which is, however, enclosed
in the Upolu barrier reef. Another of his droll sayings was that he "considered no man a thorough
mechanic unless he could cut a plank with a gimlet, and bore a hole
with a saw!"

The grand result of thoughtful practice is what we call experience: it is the power or faculty
of seeing clearly before you begin, what to avoid and what to select-- or rather what to do
and what not to do. High-class workmanship, or technical knowledge, was in his hands quite a
science.

Every piece of work was made subject to the soundest philosophical principles, as applied to
the use and treatment of materials. It was this that gave such a charm of enjoyment to his dealing
with tools and materials. He loved this sort of work for its own sake, far more than for its
pecuniary results. At the same time he was not without regard for the substantial evidence of
his supremacy in all that regarded first-class tools, admirable management,
and thorough organisation of his factory.

The innate love of truth and accuracy which distinguished Mr. Maudslay, led him to value highly
that class of technical dexterity in engineering workmen which enabled them to produce those
details of mechanical structures in which perfect flat or true plane surfaces were required.
This was an essential condition for the effective and durable performance of their functions.
Sometimes this was effected by the aid of the turning-lathe and slide-rest. But in most cases
the object was attained by the dexterous use of the file, so that "flat filing" then was, as
it still is, one of the highest qualities of the skilled workman.

No one that I ever met with could go beyond Henry Maudslay himself in his dexterous use of
the file. By a few masterly strokes he could produce plane surfaces so true that when their accuracy
was tested by a standard plane surface of absolute truth, they were never found defective;
neither convex, nor concave, nor "cross-winding,"-- that is, twisted.

The importance of having such Standard Planes caused him to have many of them placed on the
benches beside his workmen, by means of which they might at once conveniently test their work.
Three of each were made at a time, so that by the mutual rubbing of each on each the projecting
surfaces were effaced. When the surfaces approached very near to the true plane, the still projecting
minute points were carefully reduced by hard steel scrapers, until at last the standard plane
surface was secured. When placed over each other they would float upon the thin stratum of air
between them until dislodged by time and pressure. When they adhered closely to each other, they
could only be separated by sliding each off each. This art of producing absolutely plane surfaces
is, I believe, a very old mechanical "dodge." But, as employed by Maudslay's men, it greatly
contributed to the improvement of the work turned out. It was used for the surfaces of slide
valves, or wherever absolute true plane surfaces were essential to the attainment of the best results,
not only in the machinery turned out, but in educating the taste of his men towards first-class
workmanship.

Maudslay's love of accuracy also led him to distrust the verdicts given by the employment of the ordinary
callipers and compasses in determining the absolute or relative dimensions of the refined
mechanism which he delighted to construct with his own hands. So much depended upon the manner
in which the ordinary measuring instruments were handled and applied that they sometimes failed
to give the required verdict as to accuracy. In order, therefore, to get rid of all difficulties
in this respect, he designed and constructed a very compact and handy instrument which he always
had on his bench beside his vice. He could thus, in a most accurate and rapid manner, obtain
the most reliable evidence as to the relative dimensions, in length, width, or diameter, of
any work which he had in hand. In consequence of the absolute truth of the verdicts of the
instrument, he considered it as a Court of Final Appeal, and humorously
called it "The Lord Chancellor."

[Image]
Maudslay's "Lord Chancellor"

This trustworthy "Companion of the Bench" consisted of a very substantial and inflexible bed
or base of hard brass. At one end of it was a perfectly hardened steel surface plate, having
an absolutely true flat or plane face, against which one end or side of the object to be measured
was placed; whilst a similar absolutely true plane surface of hardened steel was advanced
by means of a suitable fine thread screw, until the object to be measured was just delicately
in contact with it. The object was, as it were, between the jaws of a vice, but without any squeeze-- being
just free, which could be easily ascertained by feeling. These two absolutely plane surfaces,
between which the object lay, had their distances apart easily read off from the scale engraved
on the bed of the instrument, in inches and tenth parts of an inch, while the disk-head or handle
of the screw was divided on its edge rim into hundredth or thousandth parts, as these bore
an exact metrical relation to the pitch of the screw that moved the parallel steel faces of
the measuring vice (as I may term it) nearer or farther apart.

Not only absolute measure could be obtained by this means, but also
the amount of minute differences could be ascertained with a degree
of exactness that went quite beyond all the requirements of engineering
mechanism; such, for instance, as the thousandth part of an inch!

It might also have been divided so far as a millionth part of an inch, but these infinitesimal
fractions have really nothing to do with the effective machinery* [footnote... I may mention another
saying of Mr. Maudslay's. Besides his observation that "in going from London to Greenwich we
must not go round by Inverness," he said, "We must not become too complicated with our machinery.
Remember the get-at-ability of parts. If we go on as some mechanics are doing, we shall soon
be boiling our eggs with a chronometer!"...] that comes forth from our workshops, and merely show
the mastery we possess over materials and mechanical forms. The original of this measuring
machine of Maudslay's was exhibited at the Loan Collection at South Kensington in 1878. It is now
treasured up, with other relics of his handiwork, in a cabinet at the Lambeth works. While writing
upon this subject it may be worthy of remark, that the employment of a screw as the means of adjusting
the points or reference marks of a measuring instrument, for the ascertainment of minute distances
between objects, was first effected by William Gascoigne, about the year 1648. There can be
no doubt that he was the inventor of the Micrometer-- an instrument that, when applied (as he first
did so) to the eye-piece of the Telescope, has been the means of advancing the science of astronomy
to its present high position (See Grant's History of Astronomy, p.
453) I had abundant occupation for my leisure time after my regular
attendance at the factory was over.

I had not only the opportunity of studying mechanics, but of studying men. It is a great thing to
know the character of those who are over you as well as those who are under you. It is also well
to know the character of those who are associated with you in your daily work. I became intimate
with the foremen and with many of the skilled workmen. From them I learnt a great deal. Let
me first speak of the men of science who occasionally frequented Maudslay's private workshop.
They often came to consult him on subjects with which he was specially acquainted. Among Mr.
Maudslay's most frequent visitors were General Sir Samuel Bentham,
Mr. Barton, director of the Royal Mint, Mr. Bryan Donkin, Mr. Faraday,
and Mr. Chantrey, the sculptor.

As Mr.
Maudslay wished me to be at hand to give him any necessary assistance, I had the opportunity of listening
to the conversation between him and these distinguished visitors. Sir Samuel Bentham called very
often. He had been associated with Maudslay during the contrivance
and construction of the block machinery. He was brother of the celebrated
Jeremy Bentham, and he applied the same clear common-sense to mechanical
subjects which the other had done to legal, social, and political
questions.

It was in the highest degree interesting and instructive to hear these two great pioneers in the
history and application of mechanics discussing the events connected with the block-making machinery.
In fact, Maudslay's connection with the subject had led to the development of most of our modern
engineering tools. They may since have been somewhat altered in arrangement, but not in principle.
Scarcely a week passed without a visit from the General. He sat in the beautiful workshop,
where he always seemed so happy. It was a great treat to hear him and Maudslay "fight their battles
o'er again," in recounting the difficulties, both official and mechanical, over which they had
so gloriously triumphed. At the time when I listened to their conversation, the great work in hand
was the organisation of a systematic series of experiments on the hulls of steamships, with the
view of determining the laws of resistance on their being propelled through the sea by a power other
than those of winds and sails. The subject was as complex as it was
interesting and important.

But it had to be put to the test of actual experiment.

This was done in the first place by large models of hulls, so as to ascertain at what point the
curves of least resistance could be applied. Their practical correctness was tested by careful
experiment in passing them through water at various velocities, to record which conditions special
instruments were contrived and executed. These, as well as the preparation of large models of hulls,
embodying the various improved "lines," occupied a considerable portion of the time that I had
the good fortune to spend in Mr. Maudslay's private workshop. Mr. Barton of the Royal Mint was quite
a "crony" of Maudslay's. He called upon him often with respect to the improvements for stamping the
current coin of the realm. Bryan Donkin was also associated with Maudslay and Barton on the subject
of the national standard of the yard measure. But perhaps Mr. Chantrey was the most attractive visitor
at the private workshop.

He had many a long interview with Maudslay with respect to the planning and arranging of a small foundry
at his studio, by means of which he might cast his bronze statues under his own superintendence.
Mr. Maudslay entered con amore into the subject, and placed his skill and experience entirely at
Chantrey's service. He constructed the requisite furnaces, cranes, and other apparatus, at Chantrey's
studio; and it may be enough to state that, when brought into operation, they yielded the most satisfactory
results. Among my most intelligent private friends in London were George Cundell and his two
brothers. They resided near my lodgings, and I often visited them on Saturday evenings. They were
most kind, gentle, and genial. The eldest brother was in Sir William Forbes's bank. George was agent
for Mr. Patrick Maxwell Stuart in connection with his West India
estates, and the third brother was his assistant.

The elder
brother was an admirable performer on the violoncello, and he treated us during these Saturday
evenings with noble music from Beethoven and Mozart. My special friend George was known amongst
us as "the worthy master." He was thoroughly versed in general science, and was moreover a keen
politician. He had the most happy faculty of treating complex subjects, both in science and politics,
in a thoroughly common-sense manner.

His two brothers had a fine feeling for art, and, indeed, possessed no small skill as practical
artists. With companions such as these, gifted with a variety of tastes, I spent many of my
Saturday evenings most pleasantly and profitably. They were generally concluded with a glass of beer of
"the worthy master's" own brewing. When the season of the year and the state of the weather were
suitable I often joined this happy fraternity in long and delightful Sunday walks to various
interesting places round London. Our walks included Waltham Abbey, Waltham Cross, Eltham Palace,
Hampton Court, Epping Forest, and many other interesting places of resort. When the weather was unfavourable
my principal resort was Westminster Abbey, where, besides the beautifully-conducted
service and the noble anthems, I could admire the glory of the architecture,
and the venerable tombs, under which lay the best and bravest.

I used generally to sit at a point from which I could see the grand tomb of Aylmer de Vallance with
its magnificent surroundings of quaint and glorious architecture. It was solemn, and serious also,
to think of the many generations who had filled the abbey, and of the
numbers of the dead who lay beneath our feet.

I was so great an admirer of Norman and Gothic architecture that there was scarcely a specimen
of it in London which I did not frequently visit. One of the most interesting examples I found in
the Norman portion of St. Saviours Church, near London Bridge, through some of it has since been
destroyed by the so-called "restoration" in 1831. The new work has been executed in the worst
taste and feeling. I also greatly admired the Norman chapel of the Tower, and some Norman
portions of the Church of St. Bartholomew the Less, near Smithfield.

No
style of architecture that I have ever seen has so impressed me with its intrinsic gravity,
and I may say solemnity, as that of the Norman. There is a serious earnestness in its grave simplicity
that has a peculiar influence upon the mind; and I have little doubt that this was felt, and understood
by those true architects who designed and built the noble cathedrals at Durham and elsewhere. But
there, as elsewhere, some of our modern so-called "Architects" have made sad havoc with the earliest
and most impressive portions of those grand and truly interesting
remains, by their "Restorations", as they term it-- but which I call
Defamations.

CHAPTER 9. Holiday in the Manufacturing Districts. In the autumn of 1830 Mr. Maudslay went to
Berlin for the purpose of superintending the erection of machinery at the Royal Mint there. He intended
to be absent from London for about a month; and he kindly permitted me to take my holiday during
that period. I had been greatly interested by the descriptions in the newspapers of the locomotive
competition at Rainhill, near Liverpool. I was, therefore, exceedingly anxious to see Stephenson's
"Rocket," the engine that had won the prize. Taking with me letters of introduction from Mr. Maudslay
to persons of influence at Liverpool, I left London for the north
on the afternoon of Saturday the 9th of September 1830.

I took my place on the outside of the Liverpool coach, which set
out from "The Swan with Two Necks," in Lad Lane, City, one of the
most celebrated coach-offices in those days The first part of the
journey to Liverpool was very dismal.

The night was wet. The rain came pouring down, and no sort of wrappings could keep it out. The outside
passengers became thoroughly soaked.

On we went, however, as fast as four horses could carry us. Next morning we reached Coventry,
when the clouds cleared away, and the sun at last burst forth.

I could now enjoy this charming part of old England. Although I had only a hasty glimpse in passing
of the quaint streets and ancient buildings of the town I was perfectly delighted with the specimens
of ancient domestic architecture which I saw. At that time Coventry was quite a museum of that interesting
class of buildings. The greater part of them have since been swept away in the so-called improvement
of modern builders, none of whose works can ever so attract an artistic eye. During the rest
of the day the journey was delightful. Though the inside passengers had had the best of it during
the night, the outside passengers had the best of it now.

To go scampering across the country on the top of the coach, passing old villages, gentlemen's parks,
under old trees, along hedges tinged with autumn tints, up hill and down dale, sometimes getting off
the coach to lighten the load, and walking along through the fields
by a short cut to meet it farther on; all this was most enjoyable.

But the reader must not imagine that the Samoan Group is the only one in the South Pacific
where an enjoyable holiday may be spent. The French possession of the Society Islands, of which
the pretty town Papeite, in the noble island of Tahiti, is the capital, rivals, if not exceeds,
Samoa in the magnificence of its scenery, and the natives are a highly intelligent race of
Malayo-Polynesians who, despite their being citizens of the French Republic, never forget that
they were redeemed from savagery by Englishmen, and a taata Peretane (Englishman) is an ever-welcome
guest to them. The facilities for visiting the different islands of the Society Group are very
good, for there is quite a fleet of native and European-owned vessels constantly cruising throughout
the archipelago. To cross the island of Tahiti from its south-east to its north-west point
is one of the most delightful trips imaginable. Then again, the Hervey or Cook's Group, which
consist of the fertile islands of Mangaia, Rarotonga, Atui, Aitutaki, and Mauki, are well worth
visiting. The people speak a language similar to that of Tahiti, and they are a fine, hospitable
race, albeit a little over-civilised. The brain, which, from the earliest periods, has generally
been considered as the seat of our mental functions, Dr. Gall regards as a congeries of organs,
each organ having a separate function of its own. This system, first promulgated by him, is
now rapidly advancing in the estimation of the world; and its doctrines,
which a few years since were thought too extravagant and absurd for
investigation, are now discussed in a more liberal and candid manner.

       The test for the science of phrenology, and a test by which its validity
alone can be tried, consists in an induction of facts and observations;
and by this mode it is that the disciples of Gall and Spurzheim challenge
their antagonists. 

We, who are fond of basking as a lizard, and whose inward spirit dances
    and exults like a very mote in the sun-beam, always hail its approach
with rapture; but our anticipations of bright and serene days-- of
blue, cloudless, and transparent skies-- of shadows the deeper from
intensity of surrounding light-- of yellow corn-fields, listless rambles,
and lassitude rejoicing in green and sunny banks-- are allayed by this
one consideration, that Waked by the summer ray, the reptile young
Come winged abroad. The passage is narrow and
    dangerous, even for canoes, and the steersman, as he watches the
    rolling surf, calls out Apo, lau lima! to his crew--an expression
    synonymous to our nautical, "Pull like the devil!"

