The original intention had been to disguise the hole, but so proud was the family of the success
of the imitation, that it became one of the show places of the establishment.  When the hounds
met at Bally William, and the Major brought old Lord Atrim into the house for lunch, he called
the old gentleman's attention to it with a chuckle of enjoyment.  "My daughter's work!  The
second, Joan here--Esmeralda, we call her.  She'll be an artist yet!  A real genius with the
brush."  And the old lord had laughed till he cried, and stared at Esmeralda the whole time
of lunch, and when Christmas-time came round, did he not send her the most beautiful box of
the best possible paints, the very thing of all others for which she had been longing, so that
it seemed after all that it had been a good thing when the terriers Tramp and Scamp had scratched
the thin web into a hole!  The ceilings were black with the smoke of fire and lamps, but the
silver on the oak dresser would have delighted the heart of a connoisseur, and the china in
daily use would have been laid out for view in glassed-in cabinets in most households, instead
of being given over to the care of an Irish biddy who tried to hang cups upon hooks with her
head turned in an opposite direction, and had a weakness for sitting on the corner of the table
to rest herself in the midst of washing the plates.

Outside the garden was an overgrown wilderness of vegetation, for the one gardener, realising
the impossibility of doing the work of the six who would have been required to keep the place
in order, resigned himself to doing nothing at all, or as little as was compatible with the
weekly drawing of wages.  The stables were empty, save for the two fine hunters which were
necessary for the Major's enjoyment of his favourite sport, and the rough little pony which
did duty for all the rest of the family in turns.  The row of glass-houses looked imposing
enough from a distance, but almost squalid at a nearer view, for, as the Major could not afford
to keep them in working order, broken panes greeted the eye in every direction, and plants
were replaced by broken pieces of furniture and the hutches and cages of such live-stock as
white mice, guinea-pigs, and ferrets.  Pixie had many farewells to bid in this quarter, and
elaborate instructions to give as to the care to be lavished on her favourites during her absence.
The ferret was boarded out to Pat, who had no idea of doing anything for nothing, but was willing
to keep the creature supplied with the unsavoury morsels, in which its soul delighted, for
the fee of a halfpenny a week, to be paid "some time," an happy O'Shaughnessy fashion.  The
white mice looked on coldly with their little pink eyes, while their mistress's own grew red
with the misery of parting from them, and the rabbit seized the opportunity to gnaw Bridgie's
skirt with its sharp teeth; but for Pixie the keenest pang of parting was over when she saw
no more the floor with its scattered cabbage-leaves, and the door closed behind her, shutting
out the dear mousy, rabbity smell associated with so many happy hours.

Outside on the gravel path old Dennis was sitting on a wheelbarrow enjoying a pipe in the sunshine.
He made no attempt to rise as "the family" approached, but took the pipe out of his mouth and
shook his head lugubriously.

"This is the black day for us, for all the sun's shining in the skies. Good luck to ye, Miss
Pixie, and don't forget to spake a good word for Ould Ireland when the opportunity is yours.
The ould place won't seem like itself with you and Mr Jack both going off within the same month;
but there's one comfort--one frettin' will do for the pair of you!"  And with this philosophic
reflection he stuck the pipe back in the corner of his mouth and resigned himself to the inevitable.

"Pixie darling," said Bridgie nervously, "I think we must go back to the house.  It's time--very
nearly time that you were getting ready.  Father is going to drive you over in the cart, and
he won't like to be kept waiting."

"Aren't you coming too?" queried Pixie eagerly.  There was a look on Bridgie's face this morning
which reminded her of the dear dead mother, and she had a sudden feeling of dread and longing.
"I want you, Bridgie!  Come too!  Come too!"

"I can't, my dearie.  Your box must go, you know, and there's not room for both.  But you won't
cry, Pixie.  It's only babies who cry, not girls like you--big girls, almost in their teens,
going away to see the world like any grand lady.  You may see the queen some day!  Think of
that, now!  If you ever do, bow to her twice--once for yourself, and once for me--and tell
her Bridget O'Shaughnessy is hers to the death. I wouldn't cry, Pixie, if I were going to see
the queen!"

"Is it cry?" asked Pixie airily, with the tears pouring down her face and splashing on to her
collar, which had been manufactured out of the strings of an old bonnet, with only three joins
at the back to betray the fact that it had not been cut out of "the piece."

"It's not likely I'll cry, when I'm going on a real train and steamer, and meals on the way
right up to to-morrow night!  You never had lunch on a train, Bridgie, and you are eight years
older than me!"

"'Deed I didn't, then.  No such luck!" sighed Bridgie regretfully, making the most of her own
privation for the encouragement of the young traveller.  "That will be a treat for you, Pixie,
and there are sandwiches and cakes in the dining-room for you to eat before you go. Come straight
in, for I brought down your coat before going out.  You must write often, dear, and tell us
every single thing.  What Miss Phipps is like, and the other teachers, and the girls in your
class, and who sleeps in your bedroom, and every single thing that happens to you."

"And remember to write every second letter to your brothers, for if you don't, they won't write
to you.  Girls get all the letters, and it isn't fair.  Tell us if you play any games, and
what sort of food they give you, and what you think of the English," said Miles, helping himself
to sandwiches, and turning over the cakes to select the most tempting for his own refreshment,
despite the young housekeeper's frowns of disapproval.  "Stick up for your country, and stand
no cheek.  You understand, of course, that you are to be the Champion of Ireland in the school."

"I do!" said little Pixie, and her back straightened, and her head reared itself in proud determination.

"And if any English upstarts dare to try bullying you, just let them know that your name is
O'Shaughnessy, and that your ancestors were Kings of Ireland when theirs were begging bread
on the streets!  Talk to them straight, and let them know who they are dealing with!"

"I will so!" said Pixie.  She chuckled gleefully at the anticipation; but, alas! her joy was
short-lived, for at that moment the shabby dogcart passed the window, and the Major's voice
was heard calling impatiently from the hall.

"Ten minutes late already.  We shall need all our time.  Tumble in, now, tumble in!  You have
had the whole morning for saying good-bye.  Surely you have finished by now!"

The children thought they had hardly begun; but perhaps it was just as well to be spared the
last trying moments.  Bridgie and Esmeralda wrapped their arms round the little sister and
almost carried her to the door; Pat and Miles followed with their hands in their pockets, putting
on a great affectation of jollity in their anxiety to disguise a natural regret; the two women-servants
wailed loudly from the staircase.  Pixie scrambled to her seat and looked down at them, her
poor little chin quivering with emotion.

