Much of what a student learns in the chemical laboratory he is apt to forget in later life
if he does not follow it up. But there are two gases that he always remembers, chlorine and
hydrogen sulfide. He is lucky if he has escaped being choked by the former or sickened by the
latter. He can imagine what the effect would be if two offensive fumes could be combined without
losing their offensive features. Now a combination something like this is the so-called mustard
gas, which is not a gas and is not made from mustard. But it is easily gasified, and oil of
mustard is about as near as Nature dare come to making such sinful stuff. It was first made
by Guthrie, an Englishman, in 1860, and rediscovered by a German chemist, Victor Meyer, in
1886, but he found it so dangerous to work with that he abandoned the investigation. Nobody
else cared to take it up, for nobody could see any use for it. So it remained in innocuous
desuetude, a mere name in "Beilstein's Dictionary," together with the thousands of other organic
compounds that have been invented and never utilized. But on July 12, 1917, the British holding
the line at Ypres were besprinkled with this villainous substance. Its success was so great
that the Germans henceforth made it their main reliance and soon the Allies followed suit.
In one offensive of ten days the Germans are said to have used a million shells containing
2500 tons of mustard gas.

The making of so dangerous a compound on a large scale was one of the most difficult tasks
set before the chemists of this and other countries, yet it was successfully solved. The raw
materials are chlorine, alcohol and sulfur. The alcohol is passed with steam through a vertical
iron tube filled with kaolin and heated. This converts the alcohol into a gas known as ethylene
(C{2}H{4}). Passing a stream of chlorine gas into a tank of melted sulfur produces sulfur monochloride
and this treated with the ethylene makes the "mustard." The final reaction was carried on at
the Edgewood Arsenal in seven airtight tanks or "reactors," each having a capacity of 30,000
pounds. The ethylene gas being led into the tank and distributed through the liquid sulfur
chloride by porous blocks or fine nozzles, the two chemicals combined to form what is officially
named "di-chlor-di-ethyl-sulfide" (ClC{2}H{4}SC{2}H{4}Cl). This, however, is too big a mouthful,
so even the chemists were glad to fall in with the commonalty and call it "mustard gas."

The effectiveness of "mustard" depends upon its persistence. It is a stable liquid, evaporating
slowly and not easily decomposed. It lingers about trenches and dugouts and impregnates soil
and cloth for days. Gas masks do not afford complete protection, for even if they are impenetrable
they must be taken off some time and the gas lies in wait for that time. In some cases the
masks were worn continuously for twelve hours after the attack, but when they were removed
the soldiers were overpowered by the poison. A place may seem to be free from it but when the
sun heats up the ground the liquid volatilizes and the vapor soaks through the clothing. As
the men become warmed up by work their skin is blistered, especially under the armpits. The
mustard acts like steam, producing burns that range from a mere reddening to serious ulcerations,
always painful and incapacitating, but if treated promptly in the hospital rarely causing death
or permanent scars. The gas attacks the eyes, throat, nose and lungs and may lead to bronchitis
or pneumonia. It was found necessary at the front to put all the clothing of the soldiers into
the sterilizing ovens every night to remove all traces of mustard. General Johnson and his
staff in the 77th Division were poisoned in their dugouts because they tried to alleviate the
discomfort of their camp cots by bedding taken from a neighboring village that had been shelled
the day before.

Of the 925 cases requiring medical attention at the Edgewood Arsenal 674 were due to mustard.
During the month of August 3-1/2 per cent. of the mustard plant force were sent to the hospital
each day on the average. But the record of the Edgewood Arsenal is a striking demonstration
of what can be done in the prevention of industrial accidents by the exercise of scientific
prudence. In spite of the fact that from three to eleven thousand men were employed at the
plant for the year 1918 and turned out some twenty thousand tons of the most poisonous gases
known to man, there were only three fatalities and not a single case of blindness.

Besides the four toxic gases previously described, chlorine, phosgene, chlorpicrin and mustard,
various other compounds have been and many others might be made. A list of those employed in
the present war enumerates thirty, among them compounds of bromine, arsenic and cyanogen that
may prove more formidable than any so far used. American chemists kept very mum during the
war but occasionally one could not refrain from saying: "If the Kaiser knew what I know he
would surrender unconditionally by telegraph." No doubt the science of chemical warfare is
in its infancy and every foresighted power has concealed weapons of its own in reserve. One
deadly compound, whose identity has not yet been disclosed, is known as "Lewisite," from Professor
Lewis of Northwestern, who was manufacturing it at the rate of ten tons a day in the "Mouse
Trap" stockade near Cleveland.

Throughout the history of warfare the art of defense has kept pace with the art of offense
and the courage of man has never failed, no matter to what new danger he was exposed. As each
new gas employed by the enemy was detected it became the business of our chemists to discover
some method of absorbing or neutralizing it. Porous charcoal, best made from such dense wood
as coconut shells, was packed in the respirator box together with layers of such chemicals
as will catch the gases to be expected. Charcoal absorbs large quantities of any gas. Soda
lime and potassium permanganate and nickel salts were among the neutralizers used.

The mask is fitted tightly about the face or over the head with rubber. The nostrils are kept
closed with a clip so breathing must be done through the mouth and no air can be inhaled except
that passing through the absorbent cylinder. Men within five miles of the front were required
to wear the masks slung on their chests so they could be put on within six seconds. A well-made
mask with a fresh box afforded almost complete immunity for a time and the soldiers learned
within a few days to handle their masks adroitly. So the problem of defense against this new
offensive was solved satisfactorily, while no such adequate protection against the older weapons
of bayonet and shrapnel has yet been devised.

Then the problem of the offense was to catch the opponent with his mask off or to make him
take it off. Here the lachrymators and the sternutators, the tear gases and the sneeze gases,
came into play. Phenylcarbylamine chloride would make the bravest soldier weep on the battlefield
with the abandonment of a Greek hero. Di-phenyl-chloro-arsine would set him sneezing. The Germans
alternated these with diabolical ingenuity so as to catch us unawares. Some shells gave off
voluminous smoke or a vile stench without doing much harm, but by the time our men got used
to these and grew careless about their masks a few shells of some extremely poisonous gas were
mixed with them.

