"An' all uh dat time dere warn't no black blood mixed in 'em, least wise, not as I heer'd tell
uh any. Plenty blacks 'round; ah seen 'em. My pappy nevuh would have none. My oncle had 'em,
ober on dat pasture land dere was his land.

"Why I usta get right out dere many uh day and watch 'em [HW struck out: at] workn' [HW: in
de 'baccy fields.] Big fellars dey was, wid cole-black skins ashinin' wid sweat jes' lak dey
rub hog-fat ober dere faces. Ah ain't nevuh bothered 'em but my bruther--he daid now sence
ninety-three he got uh hidin' one day fo' goin' in de field wid de blacks.

[HW: Insert] "Well we all heer tell uh de was, [HW: an ah listen to de grown folk talk on et,]
but dey ain't paid so much mind to et. They also show several lava flows on the surface. One
of the most notable of these craters are near Andernuch round, just west of the Rhine. Appointed
Laach Lake, and is almost two miles in circumference. In context, there are numerous volcanic
expulsions, just like those of Mount Vesuvius. Despite this evidence that the extinct volcanoes
of Eyfel have been in action since the country gained its current
form, there are no historical records of their operations.

There is, indeed, a passage of Tacitus refers to the fires that left the earth, near Cologne,
but their description does not warrant the conclusion that the event, which concerns the nature
of a volcanic eruption.

The Drachenfels on the east bank of the Rhine and the other mountains in neighboring countries,
belong to the oldest volcanic formations. The same is true of the other mountains scattered throughout
Germany and central Europe in general, where volcanic rocks occur.  There are a number of
remains of extinct volcanoes in Italy, besides those already mentioned Flegrei fields. In general,
resemble those described above.

The main cities are certain lakes, near Volterra, Tuscany, turning hot sulphurous fumes of boric
acid, a small lake near Viterbo continually giving forth sulfur dioxide gas bubbles, Lake Vico
between Viterbo and Rome, the mountains and lake Albano, near Rome, Mount Vultur in the Apennines,
in the province of Basilicata, and Lake Agnano near Naples.

Of these, the lakes of Vico and Agnano are the most interesting. The first is the ancient Lacus
Cimini, and old authors say that the site was occupied by a city, whose ruins are often visible
at the bottom of the lake when the water was clear.

The soil, with the city in it, is said to have been ingulfed during a volcanic upheaval, when
the lake was formed in its place.
Agnano Lake is the site of an ancient volcanic crater, and that its margin is the Grotto of the
Dog, as famous for exhalation deadly gases. These consist of carbonic acid gas, in combination
with water vapor.

This famous cave is described as in his work on volcanoes, by Dr. Daubeny, who visited the site:
-
"The mouth of the cave being slightly higher than inside, a layer
of carbon dioxide continues to accumulate steadily in the background,
but as the sun rose above the level of the mouth, like water flowing
around edge.

Hence the upper cave is free of any harmful vapor, but the air is
so wet, then it is rapidly fatal to any animal that is immersed in
it, as shown to all foreigners by experiment with the dog.

"The feeling I had, turning his head for a moment at the bottom, resembled
that of the times that we are sensitive to drink a glass of soda water
in a state of excitement and fast.

The cause in both cases is clearly the same.
"The amount of carbonic acid present in the cave at various heights, it was demonstrated by immersing
the different fuels in a state of inflammation. I found that phosphorus stays on for about
two feet from the bottom, while sulfur match was a few inches above, and a candle in an even higher
level.
 [HW struck out: But] Dat roarin' kep' a-gittin' louder an' louder an' 'long 'bout
day break there cum fum down de pike sech uh shoutin' an uh yellin' as nevuh in muh born days
ah'd heerd.'

"'An' de men in dat warehouse kept askinkin' away in de darkness widdout sayin' nothin', cause
dey didn't know what debbils de Yankees was alettin' loose. But ah stayed right there wid dem
dat had de courage tuh face et, cause ah know big noise mean uh little storm.'

"'Dar was 'bout forty of us left in dat ole warehouse ahidin' back of dem bales uh cotton an
terbaccy, an' peepin out thew da cracks.'

"'An' den dey come. Territorial disputes have at all times been found one of the most fertile sources
of hostility among nations. Perhaps the greatest proportion of wars that have desolated the earth
have sprung from this source. This cause would exist among us in full force. We have a vast
expanse of unsettled territory within the limits of the United States. There are still discordant
and undecided claims between several of them, and the dissolution
of the Union could pave the way for similar claims between them.

It is well known that until now have had serious and animated debate about rights to land that
was ungranted at the time of the Revolution, and that was usually under the name of crown lands.
The States within the limits of whose colonial governments have formed their property claims,
others have argued that the rights of the crown in this article was to the Union; especially
with regard to all that part of the western territory, either by
actual possession, or by submitting the holders of India, was submitted
to the jurisdiction of the King of Great Britain, until it was abandoned
in the treaty of peace.

This, he said, was in any case an acquisition to the Confederacy by compact with a foreign
power.

It has been the prudent policy of Congress to appease this controversy,
by prevailing upon the States to make cessions to the United States
for the benefit of the whole.

This has been achieved so far in that, as a continuation of the Union decided to provide a perspective
of an amicable termination of the litigation.

A dismemberment of the Confederacy, however, would revive the dispute and create others in the
same subject. Today, much of the vacant Western territory, by cession at least, if not by
a prior right, the common property of the Union. If that were so, the states that make the sale,
on a principle of federal compromise, would be appropriate when the purpose of the grant had
ceased, to reclaim the lands as a reversion. The other Member States, of course, insist on a proportion,
by right of representation. His argument would be that a grant, once made, could not be reversed,
and that justice participating in territory acquired or secured by
the joint efforts of the Confederacy, remained.

If, contrary to probability, must be supported by all States, that each was entitled to a share
of the common people, it is still difficult to overcome, as the true rule of apportionment. Different
principles would be established by the various States for this purpose, and as they affect
the interests of the parties in conflict, it can easily be subject
to a quiet environment.

In the wide field of Western territory, therefore, we see great theater for hostile pretensions,
without any umpire or common judge to interpose between the contenders. If you think from the past
into the future, we have good reason to fear that the sword is sometimes
appealed to the referee of their differences.

The circumstances of the dispute between Connecticut and Pennsylvania, respecting the land at
Wyoming, admonish that we should be optimistic in expecting an easy
accommodation of such differences.

The articles of confederation obliged the parties to submit the case to federal court decision.
The presentation was made, and the court ruled in favor of Pennsylvania.

 Oughta got yo'se'f uh ellum stick.'

"'Don' need no ellum stick. Diggin' dis well in my own youd an' ah'm gonna dig et jes' wheer
ah wants et. Go haid an' dig yo' own well.'

"Well, old Shep musta got sorta mad, cause he goes home an' de nex' day he digs hisse'f uh well.

"Ah seen him. Ah watched him when he figgered wheer tuh dig dat well. Sho' nuf old Shep got
hisse'f uh prime ellum stick fum ah good sized branch dat was forked. First he skint all de
bark off.

"'Kain't fine no water lessen ye skin de bark off,' he tell me. Long 'bout 2-3 feet on each
limb, et was. Well, old Shep tek dat ellum stick wid one fork in each hand an' de big end straight
up in de air an' he holt it tight an' started tuh walk around, wid me followin' right on his
heels. An sho' nuff, perty soon ah seed dat branch commence tuh shake an' den et started tuh
bend an' old Shep let et lead him across de field wid et bendin' lower all de time tell perty
soon de big end uh dat ellum stick point straight down.

"Old Shep marked de spot an' got his pick an' commence tuh dig out dat spot. An' fo' old Shep
had got down mo'un five uh six feet ah be dawg ef he don' hit uh stream uh water dat filt up
de well in uh hurry so dat he git his laigs all wet fo' he kin clamb out.

"An' yuh moughten believe et but ah know dat tuh be uh fac', cause ah tuk dat ellum stick in
muh own han's an' ah felt dat stick apullin' me back tuh dat water. No matter which way ah
turn, dat stick keep atwistin' me roun' toward dat water. An' ah tried tuh pull et back an'
old Shep tuk hole uh et wid me an' tried tuh hole et up straight but de big end uh dat ellum
branch pult down and pointed tuh dat well spite uh both uh us. 

In the next eight years 'King Henry v.,''The Merry Wives of Windsor,''As you don<t dislinke it.''Hamlet,''Twelfth
Night,''Measure for Measure,''Othello,''Macbeth,' and 'King Lear'. In this list are the four
great tragedies in which his genious culminated. Then came 'Troilus and Cressida.' 'Timon of
Athens,''Julius Caesar.''Antony and Cleopetra,''Cymbeline,''King
Henry Vlll.,''The Tempest,''The winter's Tale,' and 'Coriolanus."

If heed be paid to this order of the plays, it will be seen at once
that a quotation from Shakespeare carries with it a very different
degree of authority, according as it refers to the youth or the maturity
of his mind.

Indeed, when we reflect that between the production of "The Two
Gentlemen of Verona" and "King Lear" there is only a space of fifteen
years, we must admit that the history of the human intellect presents
no other example of such marvellous progress; and if we note the giant
strides by which it was made, we shall find that they all imply a
progressive widening and deepening of soul, a positive growth of the
nature of the man, until in Lear the power became supreme and becomes
amazing.

Mr. Verplanck considers the period when he produced his four great
tragedies to be the period of his intellectual grandeur, as distinguished
from an earlier period which he thinks shows the perfection of his
merely poetic and imaginative power; but the fact would seem to be
that his increasing greatness as a philosopher was fully matched by
his increasing greatness as a poet, and that in the devouring swiftness
of his onward and upward movement imagination kept abreast of reason.

 I was sort of a house boy."

"Fer twenty years I stayed wif mastah, and I didn't try to run away. When I wuz twenty one,
me and one of my brothers run away to fight wif the Yankees. Us left Souf Hampton county and
went to Petersburg. Dere we got some food. Den us went to Fort Hatton where we met some more
slaves who had done run away. When we got in Fort Hatton, us had to cross a bridge to git to
de Yankees. De rebels had torn de bridge down. We all got together and builded back de bridge,
and we went on to de Yankees. Dey give us food and clothes."

The old man then got up and emptied his mouth of the tobacco juice, scratched his bald head
and continued. "Yer know, I was one of de first colored cavalry soljers, and I fought in Company
'K'. I fought for three years and a half. Sometimes I slept out doors, and sometimes I slept
in a tent. De Yankees always give us plenty of blankets."

"During the war some uh us had to always stay up nights and watch fer de rebels. Plenty of
nights I has watched, but de rebels never 'tacked us when I wuz on."

"Not only wuz dere men slaves dat run to de Yankees, but some uh de women slaves followed dere
husbands. Dey use to help by washing and cooking."

"One day when I wuz fighting, de rebels shot at me, and dey sent a bullet through my hand.
I wuz lucky not to be kilt. Look. See how my hand is?"

The old man held up his right hand, and it was half closed. Due to the wound he received in
the war, that was as far as he could open his hand.

Still looking at his hand Mr. Jones said, "But dat didn't stop me, I had it bandaged and kept
on fighting."

"The uniform dat I wore wuz blue wif brass buttons; a blue cape, lined wif red flannel, black
leather boots and a blue cap. I rode on a bay color horse--fact every body in Company 'K' had
bay color horses. I tooked my knap-sack and blankets on de horse back. In my knap-sack I had
water, hard tacks and other food."

"When de war ended, I goes back to my mastah and he treated me like his brother. Guess he wuz
scared of me 'cause I had so much ammunition on me. My brother, who went wif me to de Yankees,
caught rheumatism doing de war. He died after de war ended."

W11805 [TR: moved from bottom of page]

Writer--Jayne, Lucille B. Capahosic, Virginia. Gloucester Co. Typist--Nicholas

[HW: C. Moore] [HW: Tales] [HW: Virginia/1938-9]

FOLKLORE

Material from Upper Guinea. 

He was adamant about his ideas concerning the unity and convertibility of the natural world. Also,
he had ideas about the vibration of light how they informed the Earth's magnetic fields. Because
of his ideas, he was compelled toward more research.



Aunt Susan's Story

"My mammy, Anna Burrell, was a slave, her massa wuz Col. Hayes, of Woodwell; he wuz very good
ter his slaves. He nebber sold mammy or us chilluns; he kept we alls tergether, and we libed
in a little cabin in de yard.

"My job wuz mindin' massa's and missus' chilluns all dey long, and puttin' dem ter baid at
night; dey had ter habe a story told ter dem befo' dey would go ter sleep; and de baby hed
ter be rocked; and I had ter sing fo' her 'Rock a-by baby, close dem eyes, befo' old san man
comes, rock a-by baby don' let old san man cotch yo' peepin',' befo' she would go ter sleep. 

The journal could better be described by what was missing than what it contained. It lacked leaders,
had no parliamentary reports and in no way could be described as political news.
 

Dirt accumulates in the guide blades inside the cylinder. Proper maintenance of the guide blades
includes removing the build up to prevent freezing. The glands and equilibrium ports should
also be checked for build up or breaks.
 

The dace does very well in some rivers where the brown trout cannot live. For the Sussex Ouse
this is incredible.

       Slightly more than 10 years ago the dace was absent from that river
and now there are countles dace there.

They got here because they were used as bait for pike, but they escaped and became the current
stock. The best dace thrive in sluggish and muddy rivers.
 The conclusion which I have thought
is standing on my guess that the finite can't understand the infinite.

I think that this is an overthrow of religion which has previously
been revealed.

Can I know nothing unless I understand it? Can I understand anything without comprehending
it? 

On discovering the offender, the ruler upbraided him with his immorality, and marked him commendable
of death; but, on making recompense, and promising never another time to be at fault of the
crime, he pardons him. "And you, buddy,” said he, turning to the priest, “goes rear to your
brethren in harmony, and be present at each of you to your holy duties with no dread of me or
my armed force. I am not arriving hither as a robber to steal from your churches and altars,
but as a very soon and sympathetic King to guard you from fighting."

Henry then proclaimed during the military that no one should harm an ecclesiastic on hurt of
demise.[162] It was funny, we are told, to see how the figures of the usual clergy were rapidly
swollen; rustics (p. 214) shaving their heads, and putting on the
clothes of a priest, to be secure beneath the conditions of that guard.

 The
poor preferences of the Romans led to them desiring the large and
gigantic.

Nero's fancy to go through the isthmus, Caligula's mansion constructed on the waters of Baiæ,
the vast expanse covered by the pompous palaces in Rome have as few Latin roots as compared
to the Parthenon being Greek. 

Declaring the office of the Secretary of State as unoccupied the Governor
filled it by appointing John A. McClernand.

This was questioned by Field, who was in office, who wanted to remove
him and would not agree to give up the office.

With Douglas and others as counsel, McClernand issued Quo warranto. The Governor’s power was
declined by the Supreme Court, whereby the court tangled in the partisan
battle which fumed with a real Western vehemence for two years.

A bill which was passed in the early weeks of 1841 reorganized the Judiciary. This paved way for
the election of five additional Supreme Judges and duties of the trial judges were imposed. Field
resigned in January, 1841 because he was tired of fighting with the
governor who was hostile towards him and the legislature too.

Being appointed as the successor to Governor, Douglas became the Justice of the Supreme Court
and presiding judge of the Fifth District, which he took up resigning his office of Secretary.
Since then he stayed in Quincy.
In his busy and fast life this was one of the fortunate incidents.

He was young, but clever, nimble-witted and irrepressibly energetic. Yet his knowledge was
less and superficial. Calm thought and serious study was done by him with devotion. He was able
to conquer a place for himself in the world by his aggression and dominating energy. When most
boys were trying very hard to find their way to fit themselves into
the activities of the world, he had already became an experienced
politician, a famous campaign orator and a Justice of the Supreme
Court.

He was not an heir to any statesman like the younger Pitt who was the Chancellor of the Exchequer
at twenty-three whose father happens to be Chatham, a statesman and younger Adams was Minister
to The Hague at twenty-five, who was already an eminent scholar and heir to his father’s
fame. This chance enabled him to widen his knowledge and blend with the masters of his profession
equally, which is not possible for twenty-eight year old half educated man. When he left the
bench he had a noticeable progress in the strength and decorum of his character. Chapter III.
Member of Congress.
Later when the legislature met in December, 1842, Douglas contested and lost with only five
votes even though he lacked six months to meet the requirement of thirty years. For the Democratic
nomination for Congress he resigned his judgeship and entered the campaign, where there were
eleven large counties in the western part of the State.

The Whig candidate was O.H. Browning of Quincy, a talented lawyer, who later succeeded the Douglas
vacant seat in the Senate after twenty years. Their campaign was very intensive and they addressed
masses of audiences and worn out themselves that they fell sick.