Warner executed the task which had been assigned him with his wonted skill. The completed work
met with success--with so much success indeed that he was led later to try his fortune further
in the same field and bring out the trilogy of novels which go under the names respectively
of "A Little Journey in the World," "The Golden House," and "That Fortune." Each of these is
complete in itself, each can be read by itself; but the effect of each and of the whole series
can be best secured by reading them in succession. In the first it is the story of how a great
fortune was made in the stock market; in the second, how it was fraudulently diverted from
the object for which it was intended; and in the third, how it was most beneficially and satisfactorily
lost. The scene of the last novel was laid in part in Warner's early home in Charlemont. These
works were produced with considerable intervals of time between their respective appearances,
the first coming out in 1889 and the third ten years later. This detracted to some extent from
the popularity which they would have attained had the different members followed one another
rapidly. Still, they met with distinct success, though it has always been a question whether
this success was due so much to the story as to the shrewd observation and caustic wit which
were brought to bear upon what was essentially a serious study of one side of American social life.

The work with which Warner himself was least satisfied was his life of Captain John Smith,
which came out in 18881. It was originally intended to be one of a series of biographies of
noted men, which were to give the facts accurately but to treat them humorously. History and
comedy, however, have never been blended successfully, though desperate attempts have occasionally
been made to achieve that result. Warner had not long been engaged in the task before he recognized
its hopelessness. For its preparation it required a special study of the man and the period,
and the more time he spent upon the preliminary work, the more the humorous element tended
to recede. Thus acted on by two impulses, one of a light and one of a grave nature, he moved
for a while in a sort of diagonal between the two to nowhere in particular; but finally ended
in treating the subject seriously.

In giving himself up to a biography in which he had no special interest, Warner felt conscious
that he could not interest others. His forebodings were realized. The work, though made from
a careful study of original sources, did not please him, nor did it attract the public. The
attempt was all the more unfortunate because the time and toil he spent upon it diverted him
from carrying out a scheme which had then taken full possession of his thoughts. This was the
production of a series of essays to be entitled "Conversations on Horseback." Had it been worked
up as he sketched it in his mind, it would have been the outdoor counterpart of his "Backlog
Studies." Though in a measure based upon a horseback ride which he took in Pennsylvania in
1880, the incidents of travel as he outlined its intended treatment would have barely furnished
the slightest of backgrounds. Captain John Smith, however, interfered with a project specially
suited to his abilities and congenial to his tastes. That he did so possibly led the author
of his life to exhibit a somewhat hostile attitude towards his hero. When the biography was
finished, other engagements were pressing upon his attention. The opportunity of taking up
and completing the projected series of essays never presented itself, though the subject lay
in his mind for a long time and he himself believed that it would have turned out one of the
best pieces of work he ever did.

