 Was ever a man so as to Soil came?
Tell me not, he might be there, somewhere among us, the burning tools and wonderful architect,
and I see not just INCAPABLE and listen. You and you and you and you and me, why should we
not suspect him know, right? Would not our Nerves in his slightest touch vibrate? Had he not
flesh of our flesh, blood of our blood? who should know him if we do not? It does not exist.
Its origin have to be nipped in the bud. The womb is barren, it is no longer up to the Crystal
formation, it remains with the approach, in the elements is no will, to clench, and the dormant
yearning is not productive. ever a man was so kicked to the ground? question I once again, so
tired, so dull, so stripped of leaves, so short of breath and so cool in the brain? Do you feel
it's not like no Resonnanz is? No sense will hold more, unless the coarsest food, nothing
is holding everything working, nothing, done tickling, no mind imprints are the essence, only
the distortion of it, the awe is gone, the tradition cut off, dead, faith, knowledge, a murderous
narcotic. No association and Harmony, in height, not in the depth is not in the good not, not with the
evil. Rear sinks in all depths, the front, they open up. Panicked in all directions; Afraid
to commit themselves to fear the hand that offers itself, fear of pain, anxiety before the elections,
fear of any decision, fear, even before the memory of the lost God. And do they not also be afraid
if you look at the coming up, this Undisciplined, their pleasure in the frenzy, the frenzy of
the freezing understanding; their idolatry from the chimera, the cult before the Golem, the horrible
walled isolation of each, in it to numb themselves and the others Insulated, like a crazed anchorite
for fraternization screams, vindictive and full of hatred in his self-pity? What to do? People can
become a ruin when the material is still reasonably useful, but for rotten Plank plant and
worm-eaten boards, a sea-going vehicles rooms, it is impossible. There you have the disease. As
it is rolled, the painting of the disaster, and all my those that do in good faith or because
they close the terrible clarity for a while yet do, are at work. Morituri te salutant. It is not
as Caesar, greets one takes the blind and pigeons that guide our destiny? They form only one
to draw, they are dragged along and mitzerschmettert. "

As he spoke, it had seemed Mörner that the door be addressed and someone entered was. He looked
around, noticed but not arrived, also revealed nothing in the expressions the friends that they made
a similar perception.

The large eyes rested upon him with a shy and the phrase in question. However, the discomfort did
not leave him, the presence of the hidden of a stranger causes. His searching gaze examined the
faces. It was not new among them; He knew every. But it seemed to him in the back of the room, between
the wing box and books, where the light was lost, sit a person who was not there before. He did not
dare to satisfy itself was but the feeling for infallible.

The melodious voice of a young girl said, "Is not who creates, in the deepest Meaning without time?
Is it this one, near certain world that it is necessary and must
not Rather, a transmitted upper which makes his dream true than the
bottom?

You yourself It taught us so. Not in words, in the example. And what we so often misunderstood
and misrepresented understood to have that the poet is an unselfish man, you called it so, man
without a party, almost without opinion, which is all life as food, is not more than the Act,
the bend in humility, as you have always done? "

Mörner lowered his head, and when he replied that it seemed to him that he did not stand the
gentle questioner Speech, but the hidden person he knew in the room.

»Resistors can grow," he said, "it each time there is a hard road, into the upper world and one day,
the Insurmountable barriers. The force is sufficient to stop, and the courage is not there
anymore. Work activities based on interaction. Life is my food, of course, but if the food
foul is, how? If the eyes can not see everything, the inner membrane is no longer trembling, the image
is no longer sum up the feeling of losing his security? How then? Both worlds the upper and
lower are to me pales schemes. I can grab anything, it remains me nothing in my hand, I am condemned
to powerlessness, I am a self-made. "

He smiled sadly, shrugged and said nothing. His ear was listening
in the direction where the invisible one was sitting.

But he betrayed his presence by no sound and no movement. As the girl sat closer to the wing
and play a Bach Prelude Sches began he seemed to change his place.

Mörner would oppress the friends by his presence no longer distant
and quiet.

Through the deserted streets at midnight he went to the home, but he was not well feel at the prospect
of being alone in his house.

       * * * * *

He heard footsteps behind him for a while already. He was followed by someone.

The air was mild, veiled the vault to infinity. balanced in the dark Idea that squeezing the
soul and made it rise like an artesian column. He remembered those nights of his youth time.
They were the same fluffy addicted Clouds have been, then, in the city of his misery, right in
the heart of Germany, the same bittersweet moisture in the atmosphere, the same secret whisper and
seething in the world. Why is it the Längstvergangene today was near? Announced the testing
of new and distressing over review? Parade of the troops before the resignation? A sound was like
bird call, as then in the bushes on the muddy river that caused the water plant. But back then it
had been promised, today it was waiving; arrival time, now farewell, then sealed the romance was
Goals and black window shuddered, now the frosty knowledge.

Three decades of fruitless Path to a dead end!

He walked slowly, following him, also delayed the move. He is shot through it Mörner, and his
first impulse was to flee.

But he defied her, in a corner of a Gas lamp he stopped. The other came, raised his hat and
said the stiff inferior softly: "Good evening.

There was a man of not exactly determinable age, about mid-thirties, teen slim, but in the stance a
bit flabby and slow in progress. So much in the uncertain Exclude light, let the hair was blond.
The dress was neat, although a little worn.

The beardless face was strikingly thin, sharp with deep blue eyes and amazing Grooves around
the mouth. All in all it was a beautiful, at least have been nice
face, had nothing vulgar in itself.

"I hope not to disturb you," said the unknown with respectful courtesy, the Man of education
revealed, "we have the same way, it seems, may I accompany you?"

Mörner bowed coldly. He was angry because of the anxiety he felt.

Send to Hand, they continued their way.

The stranger said, "I beg your pardon, if I do not imagine, but I have no name. I do not exercise at
least for a long time from him.

Only in an emergency I call me, either way, there are compelling situations, then I protect a made-up
Name before. I think you put any weight on this formality. "

After all, a weird thought, Mörner and looked straight ahead on the pavement. So also, to himself,
he asked, "You are a stranger in the city? Recently, first here, when ? I may ask, "He is, he
thought again, and with a burst of hate: why the decorated Preparations? why he is playing hide
and seek with me? what is its purpose?

"Yes, I'm strange," admitted the man with his soft, kind and considerate sounding Voice, "but I'm
used to it. I'm actually all foreign.

That is, superficially considered, I'm strange, is not strictly speaking. I travel constantly,
you know, I'm always somewhere else, without a permanent home.

I do not like to take holiday. If you happen to be incurred Omissions. For many years I'm on my way, and
it is sometimes difficult, the fatigue not to yield. But we do not talk about myself. To me nothing
is interesting. You I will not blame if I frankly confess to you that I pursued out of pure curiosity
am. Would you escaped me, I had to do not really know what. I would certainly do today visited the
night in your apartment, and this intrusion would be likely was very unpleasant. "

"So you were there, up there with my friends," stammered Mörner;? "I have made my ...?« not mistaken

The
stranger nodded. "Certainly, I was there," he replied a little embarrassed, "it made me irresistible
drawn. I knew you. I had any message. penetrates from a thousand voices a clear, audible than the
others. A sheet of paper, a captured word, which can not mean anything. And incidentally, I was
sitting opposite to you the other day in the railway Coupe, remember You are not? Since I was
seized immediately, the curiosity, but I like the most important was aware, and I was constantly
on your tracks. "

In fact, believed himself to remember Mörner, the unknowns for a much-hour drive in the semi-dark
compartment to have seen.

He was surprised that he remembered that only now, because Shape and demeanor of the people had
appeared to him unusual, the completely immobile Seats, fierce look, a certain naivety and modesty
in the faces connected saw an elusive smile impenetrability, all these details He vividly before
him. His excitement and anxiety was not reduced.

"Why were Find out about the most important thing in mind, "asked he sought and his agitation
behind an irritated and hide surly tone. "Am I so to fathom at first sight? Nothing offense,
but against the clairvoyance I have my suspicions, it is by some people from my Profession discredited,
and usually runs out to charlatanism and mystification. "

"I indeed have also heard your words," replied the stranger simple. "The fact that you are suspicious,
I understand. You do not know me, yes. I have still not acquired a right to your confidence.
I am a nameless, as I said, a nobody, it is up to you looking for a Charlatan to hold. Only I ask
you to postpone your final verdict yet. "

He backed out of a dog that ran across the road and went with the same significant voice on:
"No, I'm not clairvoyant, and that I have you fathomed at first sight, I claim not. What drove me
to you, in addition to curiosity, which I inherited is the singular passion in you, which directly
affect everything around you transfers. It is very rare for this kind of unselfish passion,
this and the term is indeed from you. It has attracted me, and I do not mean this metaphorically.
Whether I wanted to or not, I had to go where you were. At sea, set in a calm, under a blue
sky, sometimes one has the distinct feeling that a terrible storm somewhere rages over the
horizon, literally sucks the ship in its funnel. Such was their effect on me. Most people
know nothing of their own effect. The life they blunts from it. Much is it necessary to know
its own strength, than the other. Mighty souls are often lazy and suspect because none of the
magnetism that collected in them is. I distinguish people by. There is a ladder, from those
who are above radiates from the greatest force, the fate of force that force accountability.
This is the Glue that binds. Such was my experience at least. This is also the reason why me your
Passion is so busy. What is she directed, I can not accurate estimate, I have only partially
understood what you said there in the house, I am not a very educated man and I have read little.
I did not have the time. I have only some skills acquired through which it is now possible to
me - but let us this, that, I tell you later if they come up. The following consideration was
to me how long has touched nothing. I said, if with such a flame in the Breast before the
human world is, how can it be, what must have happened since, that the flame do not light
up that not everything is in front of her dazzling brightness, that
he who possesses it, complaining of darkness, and that very fact is
in danger of actually in darkness to sink?

How is that? I said: Maybe you can bring benefits as it is yes you have sometimes succeeded,
since this is a soul, I said to myself, a powerful soul and writhes in convulsions, perhaps you
can use the turbid medium from the retina of this People resolve
not to do more, perhaps, the whole is a disease of the eye; certainly
not of the physical eye, which may not mean anything in the eye more
noble: the Heart itself is the eye.

"

       The often hesitant, as issued from humility uncertain and hesitant
speech of strangers with each syllable in irresistibly Mörner Affairs.

Hard melted slag, the cramp eased themselves.

What kind of person do this? he thought, between two breaths, one of which is still suffering was the
next one hope.

* * * * *

They sat in the office of the writer. The stranger began to tell. He had It certainly has never
done, because it was unmistakable the first time.

It was many years ago that he was the son of a wealthy house, courted spoiled, like a throne
caresses, all of a sudden the day thrown on his own, everything superfluous, as expressed it:
money, external dignity, social position, friends, women who Things, the habits, ambition, the name,
all stripped of themselves, just to live, to really live.

Mörner thought to remember to have heard of it. But the time had the impression of then interrogated
and probably distorted blurred.

The move of the young man had caused amazement and worry. It caused also many people suffering,
which he found blood and wesensnah, but after that he was not allowed . Ask He gave up everything
dear to him and had been indispensable, and walked the path, he had to work himself, and was
all the more difficult and painful than a certain Target on him did not exist. You had to see where
you came from.

What he really under "live" understood that he could neither then nor later satisfactory to explain. He therefore
found a confused head, and even those people who challenging its existence had condemned luxury
and his break with the past approved in principle, shrugged their shoulders about the execution.
They had something special Niedagewesenes expected, and made no secret
of their disappointment.

To its obligations avoid burning the ships behind him, that finally everyone can, so they said
throw away money and land, beautiful;; about living in voluntary poverty, handsome, but accepted
even that one is not to the flesh-pots of Egypt returns when one's
history one day is too far, where is the idea?

       What kind of service rendered to the mankind with them?

What is proven, so changed? He proclaimed a new doctrine? Attracted by the example to imitate?
Is it even worth emulating? If he has the world to a fruitful enriched? No, they noted, it is immature
enthusiasm, at best, a quixotic modern; Mr. mood in the land, just more amazing than the previous, and
strictly speaking he is the same Snob remained what it was, but not be denied that he over-saturation
and Despair have given the drive.

Sun expressed the most. But he did not care. Their words did not sink soon everything to him. He
departed from their midst. He disappeared from their horizon. Before long, was he lost. He went
down into the depths. Reversal for him there was none.

* * * * *

He said that he lived a long time in the Borinage in the miners, was still as idle and curious
guest. The sight of misery he had this role unbearable made. It had provided an opportunity for
the crossing to America. Over there he was forced to his bread to earn. He picked up the heaviest,
went on to shippers on the Hudson and was employed against daily wages. He was sick. Recovered,
he taught the children of a Polish Refugees in reading and writing.

He stayed in his story at the obvious difficulties of everyday Life does not occur. Around him,
he was not to do so. His own suffering did not come just not in question here, but he took
no notice of them, they were scarce for him.

He told me always in the same uniform and without the slightest tone of urgency, that he was
involved with a major mining accident in Pennsylvania to the rescue and have for weeks been
in the pits was, for weeks orphaned in society Children, widowed women, then it drove him further
and further as one of the insatiable Thirst and every drink is just thirsty. That it is the life
of the metal workers I know, he reported, and the machine builders, and the railway workers,
and in the slaughter houses, canning factories, spinning mills, saw mills and printers. That
he lived with fishermen, with loggers, with lower middle class, with officials, with waiters,
with Embezzlers, with bar-dancers, with blacks, with farmers, with journalists. That he servant
of a Sect head was, clerk in a stockbroker, agent for the Bureau ad.

That he was in a reformatory and a prison, not as a disinterested visitor, but as a convict by
means of forged papers are issued for another. That he slept for weeks in the underground channels of
New York, in the opium dens Chicago lived and served among the emigrants to Ellis-Iceland as a
hospital assistant. That he was a year had gone out with a prospector's expedition to Alaska,
and from there to Japan, and from there to China.

That he from Beijing into the interior, along the river, be moved, and with a Tibetan Lama for
Madjura, the holy town with lily pond and the towers of idols, always among the people, close
to the people who are lonely, closely with him, from day to day rich lonely from day to day,
laden with riches, and still thirsty. He went on. All this was just background, character and
outline showed later.

He said ships and junks, from the sky, sea, forests and gardens, temples and festivals, cities and
deserts, of saints and criminals, from religious contemplation and secular toil; of turmoil and
oppression, intimate work diligently and loving act.

And again the fate of fate, his move to his horror, his glory, knitted in all its diversity
souls.

He recognized, from detecting it was full. He had sipped forces in yourself and desire. He had seen
the ties and linkages of the human body learned how to Bearings of the muscles and veins on
a skinless body is responsible. He was familiar with the Feeling and thinking of all lost, stray,
afflicted and tolerating at all ends and corners the earth.

He knew the vicious, the murderers, the thieves, the fences, the downtrodden, the simple, the
glowing, the silent, undaunted. For him, attracted by the threads Coast of the Indian Ocean
to the palaces of European cities. Everything was a single, trembling, hot body, like all the tangled
branches of a huge tree. He expressed not like, he was not able to,
but it was in his eyes and being.

He was from the east, went through the war, unchallenged, bewillkommt in friendly Air and gentle
hands around, and where he was, he seemed to others has always been
be.

       He had crisscrossed the battlefield, the firing sites, the blood-stained
country here and there, the crushed, groaning country. It was witnessed
by plunder and slaughter, Hunger and hatred, madness and lies, brutality
and despair. But also of hidden Heroism and little chance of frugality,
of sacrifice and miracles of accomplishment. He was not tired, he
could not be, because he saw no goal.

What may be the target? It
went through my mind Mörner, while he listened and mitlebte; in the
endless circle of images and ideas, he suddenly thought of Buddha's
lawn, to the Elysian fields of the last self-emptying, the last knowledge,
the last peace, the last Incarnation, height division between earthly
and heavenly world.

Did not he know where he went, the very strange?
Furthermore there was no doubt that he supernatural powers had acquired,
that is, seen from which the still not to the rich nature: he had
bought it because its use was more than human, the is considered by
those of who still are not enough to the human.

* * * * * But sociability did not seem to cheer to. He was made
in loving and funny way, the court, it flattered him, you proved his delicate little distinctions;
for nothing, it was difficult to coax him to smile. He presented Almost every night, as one who
flees before him, he asked to be merely tolerate him, if it came to worst, he'll try not to
be a burden. What he was under the worst understood it, he did not comment, the housewife, who was
his most devoted follower, pulled him aside and urged him to take to rise, and he makes quite
an impression of a person who holds a phantom fool, you had so many lights he used to so much
healthy, wholesome-looking force, this can not but be a time to naught; if she could help him
if he no longer worthy of trust? She had to make any sacrifice ready, they, like all others, who
witnesses his transformation were dismayed.

He shook his head. To help "is not there," he replied, "it would be better if you pulled me not
out of the dullness. The last hiding place should not take me, towards the light to defend everything
in me, things get this too boastful face. My case is small in itself, it sets its priority,
said it will only creators of new diseases. What I learn from me, but is merely the result of an
often tangled chain of self-deception and self-estimates. It has fallen to its long, it has calmed down too
long you always pleasant splashed away in the balmy water. The realization is painful. As
would help a person who has never seen in a mirror up to the moment in which it occurs, steeped
in the delusion that he was was beautiful, he was well educated, he had pleasant Trains, and suddenly
he grinned against the glass a horrible grimace? How do you want the help? That makes a fool of
me, a phantom, is also not true. "He hesitated in uncertain Shame and went on: "Imagine that
I can not be alone, without me feel is an urgent demanding creditor is after me and demand payment
of a Guilt.
 That it
not a temporary pain, no turbidity was that, like mist over a landscape and yet they are basically
breathing testimonies of life, felt Mörner. It was as if the spring Clock in a broken, or more
disturbing, as when one enters a storage chamber, which have been filled with hard work and
prudence, and entirely empty place.

Finally, there was a loss like the death of a being. He spoke in a circle of friends about with reluctance
at first, because repugnant to him, confusion on the subject of the internal exchange of views
to make. The depression, which he suffered, had already noticed, he now as their Cause called,
was not obvious right and we thought it was a hypochondriac Intermediate state. You certainly
knew his selfish and often volatile nature, he had often enough, the spectacle of Selbstquälers
given after each performance, they concluded shredded and helpless as before the first start
looking into the future, all of destiny and hoping for the addition, little or nothing of his
talent. But his devotion was unbounded, his work is a sacrificial service, the tireless and
sincere efforts were the purest Will joined the integrity of conscience, which rejects every facility
and sweetening. Add to this that he had no lack of success, he distrusted him, he was from
been carried him to a certain amount of life, was his name, his controversial work, but he
enjoyed the respect, nay, the tendency of many adoring and was often unambiguous Prove it.

The friends were so clear its not serious disturbance. This excited his impatience and had as
one of them ended up with something reasonable comfort, Morner said: "If a Man as I no longer
believe in the importance and necessity of his mission, he is Simply allerüberflüssigste creature
on earth. As before, if it vanishes on the object itself, if he does not know what he should at all and
finished like a house of cards blown is behind him? Since all reality is a haunted horror, his mind
has no capacity enough for the depth of the abyss that yawns before him. "

The friends were astonished and silent. Some did not understand quite what he meant, and he drove
shrug on: "Mission is indeed a far too ambitious word. It is likely his Ambition does not stretch
over the attitude of a respectable master craftsman. So it was in earlier Times. The extraordinary
as it was modest by chance, not in priest-like Greed and asceticism. What one strives for, what you
longed for? They want to shape the formless; what can be fragmented nature, put together and
the great destroyer and Vergeuderin . As against Inadequate it is always kept, but it's wonderful,
so long as the material obeyed, and the eye and the hand.
 

But the father of the family was always sick, even now: sometimes he missed this, now that, all
Unfortunately, with his power in the overworked body and the weary spirit of life was not very resistant
to many attacks on the various organs. The GPs and the electoral body doktorten doctors around him,
the court sent medicines; the Countess of Mansfield wanted him to take the cure. It was an old (still
existing) Belief that large drug lords and princes that they themselves would give, and applied,
strong and healing were, nothing else worked, if it were a medic [532]. The most and best That
of course Mrs. Katherine.

In 1541 Luther was a long time so weak that he can not read hard one hours and could speak
he had to stay home and keep as his house of worship. Once He also wrote to the drug knowledgeable
widowed Countess Dorothea von Mansfeld, who also like to the "dear togktor" would have helped.
Because the pain was terrible, so he lamented that: "I want to die, but they are suffering terribly."
[533] The following year he made his Testament, "sick of this life, or that I may rightly say,
this bitter death." "I have I worked and lived. The head is no longer any use. I'm exhausted,
tired, I am . Nothing more "[534] In April 1543 he complained:" How many times I have died
this year already! And yet I'm still alive, a useless burden of the earth. "On 13 and 14 July
1543, he was repeatedly so powerless that he meant to die and wanted to send for his Hans of Torgau.
But Ms Kitty had learned to encourage him and talked him out of the thoughts of death. Beginning
in 1515 he had an attack of illness with similar symptoms, such as a year later his Brought about
death, corpse cold and the frightening anxiety on the chest. He could long time no sermon and
no lecture and had to keep himself in a little cart to the Church can continue to listen to
the sermon [535]. "I think my real disease is age, then my work and violent thoughts, especially
the beating of Satan. " "That I am incapable at all, is not surprising, the age is there,
the pitcher goes so long as . To water until it breaks again, "" I am sluggish, tired, cold,
that is old and useless, and I have completed my course and there is nothing for it but that
the Lord took me to my fathers gather. "During his horrible tortures he wants if not gently,
but to die bravely [536].

And with all these sufferings and torments the old man should still work for three, he was plagued
by princes and city councils, friends and colleague and penitents with letter writing, Writing books, lectures,
sermons and discussions, "concerns" comfort letter, so that He complains: "As I sit old, decrepit,
lazy, tired, chilly and, moreover, one-eyed Husband and write. But I was hoping, I was dead
should now enjoy the peace that I I think me, I deserve. But as I had never done anything written
spoken, and running, I have to talk so much to do and execute, that I do not advice. I 'm so
busy that I rarely even leisure to read or to pray for me, which I is difficult. [537]

Though often interrupted by the innate humor in Luther, and the happy
confidence in God remained well the mood of his being.

But with his tendency to melancholy temperament and Health habit of the aging man but mainly
the dark sides of all phenomena to see and only rarely could he say to himself: "I'm not the
face of our communities sadly back, but flourishing, by pure and holy doctrine with many excellent
fair and clergy, day by day increasing. [538]

So he time and the world had become distasteful.

'World is the world, was the world and the world will be. " And he wanted away from it. He hoped
and wished that the world's end is near or at his life. "Come, my last day," he sighs at the
end of a letter to Kate, and to Mrs. Frances Jones he concludes (1544) a letter: "It was supposed
to be there now the time my way home and rest;. Pray for me blessed a short hour "[539]

But since he does not go out of the world and bring about the holiday rest of the Last Day do not even
could he at least wanted a divorce from his world and his profession. Because it is yes mood
and desire for old and sick people: because they can not go out of life they seek to change their
residence and want to move away from it, with so many complaints a change and a journey may be
connected. Luther was said to be the last year its environment, "he desired to another place
to draw." And the friends were also strange that he pulled out this year more before his death,
for many years; and they saw it as "to prophecy that he would do the blessed journey to a
better life" [540].

So it was now already in 1544, where he threatened to move away from Wittenberg and friends and officials
of Wittenberg was discouraged. The following year (1545) after on St. John's of his "tormentors",
the stone was almost killed in an irritable mood and thereby added,
was he really led to this decision [541].

There was just no particular reason to take this step since. But many things he had to stay Wittenberg
spoiled in recent times. The dispute with the lawyer, the vexed history in the house with "another
Rosina and swindler", and above all the hustle and bustle of Citizens and students in Wittenberg,
had raised him high. The huge student crowd brought to Wittenberg understandably not all good,
pious, and then politely elements and the 2,000 students there were of course much more to criticize
and punish, than in the former 200th And among those thousands were people from every nation,
not only all the German Strains, but also foreigners, "the Russias and Prussia, the Dutch lender and
angels, Denmark and Sweden, Bohemia, Poland, starvation, turning and winding, whales and the
French, Spaniards and Gräken. " Citizens who exploited the students. Female rabble induced
moved as Luther said, sent by your adversaries, and there was some "fat student", which is rather
in the Rashomon "fat" drove around, instead of learning at school the word of God, virtue and discipline.
Against such untidiness now Luther was as old faithful preacher father's admonition on. He asks
his "brother studying to keep quietly, soberly and honestly, the wait why it hither and heavy
costs of their own people will get that art and Learn virtue, because the time is here, and
such fine preceptors are there. "He urged the Council to punish the vices, and the citizens, the
"greed" to control. But the citizens of the small University City were mostly on their advantage,
the Council was casual and anxious, as Luther complained often to the beautiful order in a free
city like Nuremberg, and the Students he had in vain for his gray head, she heard his painful
and heartfelt exhortations: "Oh, my brother studied already, my leave and it does not get there,
that I must scream as St. Polycarp: "Oh God, why have you let me do? I've not so deserving,
but because there are my preceptors and your faithful work, to serve you the best in this and that
life. "[542]

Alongside and with the messy nature of the luxury in the city took in Doktorschmäusen and especially
at weddings and christenings hand so much that many a man (eg Georg Major through his doctoral
and nine baptisms) fell into debt. Yes, it tore the new clothes costume "To uncover the young women,
back and front" one, and no one was there, "the death penalty there, or defend; It seemed
like Luther, is afraid to leave, "that Wittenberg with his regiment not the S. S. Locust St. Vitus'
dance or dance, but the beggar dance and get Beelzebubtanz.

Therefore, Luther said: "Only way out of Sodom" [646]

He seemed now to get serious. In July 1545 he took to wife Kitty's wagon with his eldest son,
Hans, D. Cruce, and a table Comrade Ferdinand of an Mauger Recreational trip to Leipzig and
to Zeitz Amsdorf friend, the bishop. On the way he heard that conditions in Wittenberg much
more would the people in the mouth, as he thought.

Because he wanted to did not return to the "unordige" city.

He wrote on 28 Zeitz in July from its Woman following letter [543]:

"G (nade) and F (Ried)!

Dear Kate! As our journey is taken, you will be Hans say anything - although I also 'm not sure
whether he should stay with me - then it's to be Kaspar D. Cruce, and Ferdinandus say. Ernst
von Schönfeld has kept us nice to Lobnitz [544]. Much Heinz Scherle nice to Leipzig.

I like it wanted to so that I would not have to come back to Wittenberg. My heart is cold, that
I am not happy because: will, too, that you sold garden and hooves, Home and Yard. So I want to
(even) M (nädigen) (a) G H (ORD) to give the big house [545] again. And would be your best,
that you put you Zulsdorf gene, because (while) I'm still alive.

And (I) could you help improve the pay of probably the Gütlein, because I hope to me the MGH
Sold (out) can follow, for least a year of my past life.

After my death Up the four elements [546] at Wittenberg but probably
not suffer, so it would be better my life done what will be done then.

I have heard in the country, because I know in Wittenberg, so I tired of the city am and will
not come back, because to me God.

The day after tomorrow I will go into Merseburg, for Prince George
has made me much about ask [547].

Will wander and eat more so the begging bread before my poor old's last days torture will disturb
the nature unordigen at Wittenberg and a loss of my sour and dear work. Do such, where you
want to know, and M. Philip D. Pommer leave, and D. Pommer if you
want 'Wittenberg hereby be blessed because of my [548].

For I can of Wrath pain and suffering any longer.

Hereby ordered to God, Amen.

Martin Luther. "

Ms Kitty was of course that threatening letter to the two friends, Melanchthon, in turn, which
came on the afternoon of Dr. Bruck, and ate with him, told the Chancellor Luther projects.
That's the effect. For what Wittenberg was without Luther? Melanchthon declared that then he
could not stay longer and before the scandal had to hide somewhere.

As the horrors of the Wittenberg University, the Council and the citizens went through the ranks.
The Senate and the City Council met and discussed the measures to keep Luther. To the elector
was sent with a copy of Luther's letter is a message to he in his turn on the angry man act,
"that he changes his mind." A delegation of the University and City Council: Melanchthon, Bugenhagen,
Major, the mayor and the municipal judge Hans Lufft were sent to Luther and the Court came a
conciliatory letter, and the amiable physician Ratzeberger, Luther
even disliked good to Merseburg.

The Dentists could be tough enough on the Wittenberg delegates from over "the loosening of Breeding.
City and Government promised now earnest action against the "verthunliche" Being at weddings
and christenings, to careless driving at dance pleasures, against the undue clamor in the streets,
etc. [549]

Thus Luther was calm, yet he returned to court to his demands to give, then drove it home slowly.
The recreation and travel in free air but he had done well, and comfort in his beautiful home, the
care of his faithful wife left him the idea of ​​an extract forget to walk the final proof in the world
beyond it all the pain and adversity, all the suffering and torture relieved of the disease [550].

He
was the complicated dispute Handel its sovereign, the Counts of Mansfeld, because of the Mining
rights to settle and made the following winter three trips to his
homeland.

The Elector would have preferred to see Luther as an old decrepit man with these things were
spared, "and the woman was Kate's opinion also that it pursued that Melanchthon but the much
younger and healthy, was not to Regensburg had. But Luther himself said: "It must, though I have
much to do to an eight-days do not have not, I dare them will, with joy that I may lay me in my
coffin, where I previously little rulers tolerated and have seen friendly, one heart. "Besides,
it was a satisfaction to him, to show what would bring completed in dispute quarrel a good Christian,
compared to "the silver and Guldenen lawyers, which often expand the thing as a virtue and
avarice against all equity and move on (out). "[551]

Of course Käthe took these trips more difficult, especially the last one in the worst Season.
It was late January and an even "naughty", cold weather. She knew from richer Experience, which
means a cold for the sick man through and through. She had also heard that Luther in November
(1545) his lectures on Genesis with the parting words had concluded: "I can not, I'm weak and pray
to God for me, giving me a good, happy end dam. "Finally, an incident had the whole house with
anxious presentiment met. Shortly before that had the student table and household in the dormitory,
where they lived, can renew a striking clock. A great place to went once at midnight, that in This
Clock is a very large hard case was heard, as if the whole case together with the Weights
would be dropped. The next morning, everything was intact.

As Luther said this was, he said to those at table: "My dear Quirites frightened, not before.
For this Case me, that I will die soon. When I come from Eisleben, I will put in the coffin. So I'm tired of
the world, and differed much as a seasoned guest from a common Hostel. "However, Ms Catherine
wanted her husband to the work of peace in Mansfeld prevent and overcome the trip after he twice
happy, they probably hoped to happy outcome of a third and last. She gave him not only his Famulus
Ambrose Rutfeld with, but also her three sons and should be in Hall D. aboard Mr Jonas. In Monastery
remained as diners Besold, including Plato back [552].

The travelers went on Saturday, 23 January in Wittenberg from. It came after a sharp frost during the
night on Sunday a thaw, with ice and floods, so the traveling party, Sunday morning when she
arrived in Halle, Saale and not get over the three days in the City had forgiven; friend Jonas,
who was pastor for four years in Halle said, but the Wittenberg guests in his home. Hall of
Käthe now received a witty Letter from her husband, who reported his good mood. It was addressed
"To my friendly love Käthen Luthrin at Wittenberg for the attention "[553].

"Grace and peace in the Lord!

Dear Kate!

We are now arriving at eight clock to Hall, but not moved to Eisleben. Because it met We are
extremely Wiedertäuferin with large waves and ice that covered the
country; dräuete us with the re-baptism.

So we could also not come back again, because of the Mulda; therefore
had to be room between the (two) still waters.

Not that we thirsty to drink, but were enjoyed here good beer and
good Rhenish wine, so that refreshes and seeing that we are comforted
that the hall would like auszürnen again.

For since the people and Fuhrmann, even we ourselves were hesitant,
we're not going to go in the water try, and God, for the devil dwells
in the water and hated us, and is better verwahret because beklaget,
and is not of necessity, that we make the Pope his scales including
a fool's delight should.

I would not have meant that the hall could make such Sod that they Stone paths should surprise
and everything.

Jetzo not, because: pray for us and be pious. I think, you had been here, so You would have
us to do, too, so come, so we had gefolget your advice for once.

Herewith God commanded! Amen.

Hall at St. Paul's conversion to days (25 January) Anno 1546th

Martin
Luther D. "

This was even cheerful and happy, as we read in the monastery this funny letter, and Mrs. Lara could
be temporarily reassured. But it took eight days, until she met another letter. That had upset the
anxious woman not even a little, and sent them letters from about letters what else in his
busy wife was just habit. Finally, after Candlemas a second letter arrived at Luther. The course
was written in the same jocular tone, as the last and most of the epistles of the doctor to his
wife. But it was a job in it, which could make worrying.

"In my heart love housewives Katharin Luth woman, doctor, Zulsdorferin, and what Saumärkterin
else it can be.

Grace and peace in Christ, and my old, poor and, as I know, love powerless before.

Dear Kate! I've been weak on the road hard in front of Eisleben, that was my fault. But if you'd
be been there, so you would have said, it would be the Jews or their
God's fault been.

Because we had to go through a village hard against Eisleben, as
many Jews inherent, perhaps they have blown me as sharp.

Thus, in this town of Eisleben now this hour living more than fifty Jews (in a home). And is it
true, as I was in the village, went me such a cold wind back in the car a beret on my head out
when I wanted to s the brain to make ice. Such fraud may now have something to help, but now I
I thank God! probably sent, except that the beautiful women to challenge me so hard.

I drink beer Naumburg table, almost of taste, which you have of me as Mansfield praised. It pleases
me well.

Your son is before yesterday went to Mansfield because they Hans of those [554] so humbly had requested,
do not know what they're doing. If it was cold, so they want to freeze to help. Now it is warm,
they could probably do what other or suffer as they please.
This, together with all God be home and greet the table companions.
Vigilia Purificationis, 1546th

ML, your old love. "[555]

So the
doctor had caught a cold right and through their own fault: he was
for a time alighted from the car, had run himself into a sweat at
the strikingly warm winter weather, was then in the last village Nißdorf
hard before Eisleben, carelessly back on the wagon sat and had a cold
in the sharp wind of the cart. Mrs Kate knew what to mean this and
had even been frightened in spite of the happy letter. She had, it
seems it, the thing even before Luther's own message is sonsther,
and also that the otherwise always open Held wound to the leg, which
granted a kind of Fontanelle, the sick juices a drain, questionable
legally was healed. They then wrote a letter to the other, in a day
(Friday, February 5) has several. They also sent from Wittenberg their
usual home remedies: "Stärkküchlein", all kinds of starch water, vinegar
and rose Aquavitä, and was called Jonas, the Famulus and their sons
in the prison of the Doctor sleep [556]. Although he wrote back very
careless, only because of the concern heikeln disputes that he had
to settle on 6 Why had she visited him, why he faces so friendly, him just returned happen? - The whole
thing was an ordinary coquetry was it only the to let her feel that she is accustomed to exercise
over men's hearts, and then he laughed to show the gulf that lay between them? "Bah -" his lips
quivered contemptuously Smile as he ascended the idea that they have seen him play for their mood
could be - and what else was their purpose? "Foolish girl," he muttered quietly to himself,
"Your beauty can probably dazzle the eye for a short time, but the lack of heart can they replace,
you go and seek another game with me You've lost your time. "

And once the images were transferred to spell fast in his mind - the lovely Figure in the grand
Ball State - the vorüberschwirrenden couples whose individual contours he no longer saw and
including music, old-known, long time no longer belonged tones from home - ways by which he
himself in good time - the memory of holy God - - He hid his eyes with his left hand, but only wild
and stormed the tireless Thoughts on him, and he could not escape the inescapable.

Several minutes, he must have been so, as a light hand touched his arm, and almost He looked up,
startled.

"Are you ill?" Said a soft, sweet voice, and Sadie's true soulful eyes looked up anxious and
worrying him, but he needed seconds to collect himself, to recall the in the scenes where he
is now - for the first time after many years - stayed, and he had thrown back by then fixed
willpower where they belonged - in the past. Today for the first time, perhaps awakened by the
Jugendgespielen - Perhaps by that beautiful, cold image that attracted him and repelled at the
same time in a wonderful Force, they were awakened in ancient wrath and pain, and it took another
truly, scarcely less powerful spell to break their power, or mitigate
it.

Sadie - like a ray of sunlight breaks through the clouds, and light and life on the remaining
complains that only a few moments with fog shadow covered fields, so suddenly appeared lovely
image in all its gentleness and loveliness before him, and harp sounds the same, with the the
soft tones of full swelling not just by ear, no, by all pores penetrate into the soul of our body
and resonate the nerve to make their harmony, which Vibrate their finest fibers, he saw not only the
lovely child in all its loveliness the right to stand, no, he also felt the beneficent near
them, which drove back the evil spirit crept over him, and quietly
taking her hand, which trembled in his, he whispered the magic word
that should save himself - "Sadie!"

"You're sick, René," but said the young woman, turning him over to
the window - "You look pale and attacked - let us go home "- she then
added quickly and quietly - "You better be there, much better, and -.

Me too,"

"I lack nothing, you sweet child replied," René smiling - he was driven by their own sense his
present motion as the cause to hide from the woman, but there was something forced in the words,
and the eye of love is not wrong. René also felt the most, and every further allay suspicion,
perhaps to avoid further questions, which he feared he added in a loud cheerful voice: "No child,
I feel even this evening quite happy and easy to sense, and I want
to dance very much.

Disdained joy versa never back and it would be 'sin they be dismissed from the door. "

"I do not know of whom you speak," said a laughing at this moment in his voice Side, and the lively
Madame Belard came upon them ascend - "but not as guilty Courtesy
were it, I should think the hostess to engagiren at least to a single
dance, that they do not even watch the whole evening must amuse themselves
as their guests.

"

René could have found more desirable at this moment no excuse him a least painful anxiety,
more than that to avoid further questions, and Sadie friendly nodding, he offered the woman Belard arm.
This, however, which he still jokingly read the text about his flattering for them not rudeness,
he asked now with all that lovable Levity, stood him so well, perhaps because he felt so natural
for forgiveness of the fault because he already wanted to make amends,
if only just friendly it would be enough opportunity to indulge it.

"Hey Sadie," she said at that moment Aumama, which came to her side,
"You make a yes remarkably straight face - are you tired?

"

Sadie smiled and shook his head.

"So easy not Aumama," she said softly, her arm around the girlfriend legend shoulder, "and I
like to dance wondrous, if only I knew she was again becoming more serious and quietly added
- "if we do quite well with such pleasure, and perhaps not even a sin Committing, of which we
lie to ourselves that the whole thing but was just an innocent delight. "

"And that's what else?" Aumama laughed, "I take the dance, and I'll give you my life in the Purchase.
- Only the company - and the way they drive here's how I do not like. - The Include inhibiting
the free movement of the members happy, turning drives me dizzy that the room with me in the
circle spins. The walls, the floor here make me mad and uncomfortable, I will be as if I out gear
in the canoe in the open sea and the waves cast at me and down. No, give me the freedom to open-plan,
the flowering branches and twinkling stars above us, the funny drum to strike to kick and jump,
and I am yours, body and soul, as do you want me. Hei as the Tapa flutters in the wind and
the Locke chases you around the temple, as the blood shoots because
the veins, and liquid fire is, before it returns to the heart.

Bah, here the dance is cold - cold as the country from the he comes, and it warms my heart
not, whether they blow and also make Specktakel with their strange
instruments, with all his might.

Not even a drum, they have there, and they call music. "

"You're a strange girl," are smiling Sadie - "foreign peoples but
also those of others Morals.

"

"That is why they should let us ours," defied Aumama - "but what I ask you wanted, "she continued
more seriously - add a" who's that white girl danced with René as long and had so much to
talk to him? "

"I do not know," said Sadie - "a stranger, I think, by Papara or its vicinity come and live here
will probably remain, - why? "

"I did not like, 'I would like you," said the friend, shaking his head - "they has a smooth face
and sly glance - I could not understand their language, but this
is often not necessary if the eyes speak as clearly as the lips.

"

"And what have you said?" Asked Sadie.

"Nothing makes me happy," replied Aumama, "but also nothing that I want to tell again; we should
not slander people something evil, nor to point to the mere suspicion. "

"You are angry with the foreign women," said Sadie, smiling, "because you are not with them can handle
as we are accustomed to them and it is quite possible that you them here doest wrong. But René
has since not spoken to her again. "

"But with no one else," said Aumama quickly - "he stood at the window
and leaned his head in his hand, until you came to him.

"

Sadie was silent, looking pensively down before him, her eyes stuck
on the ground but not for long, but was looking for her husband, in
the wild tangle of dance, René again with the full Zeal surrendered.

  But, after her eyes wandered
  around then, they did not,
    Miss
    Lewis had left the room and René
    laughed and chatted with his
    still living dancer Women Belard.

But new guests came to dance, in which now occurred just a short break, the dancers an opportunity
to give themselves to the here and there, mounted and with fruits,
cakes and wine-covered tables to refresh, and as soon the music ceased,
as some of the wild girl, glad of a bothersome be removed from compulsion
to jump into the middle of the room and soon there by a large Part
of the men were surrounded.

  
  
    "Come,"
    cried one of the merry band,
    now returning to the little
    dressed stranger their unknown ways and turning the ring around it
monotonous long annoyed and tired had

"Come on! because of the sharp
tone I was bored already, Come!

Shrugs's me by foot and knee, Shrugs's in my heart here! Come on! "

"Peace, Wahine - Give peace - away with you, girl," cried some voices laughing in between! -
"There is no room for your wild dancing, where foreign women are
- deal with you!"

"Gone?" Cried but others in between those of wild-known sound, the pulses have quick made knock
-

"Away? let them talk because, Luv, we are so, Fort - Rasch only the drum ago We do not stand
idle anymore. Go away! "

and beating the clock on the lower back flat with her hands, and began singing and laughing
The lively crowd, despite jumping in the individual men who might not unjustly feared that the dance
could degenerate into the arrogance of a jubilant swarm, the wild ~ ~ Upepehe, the favorite
dance of her tribe.

The newly arrived guests, two naval officers of the ~ ~ Jeanne d'Arc mingles like laughing
among the cheering girls who knew almost everybody, and now Mad Belard implored René, his influence
to summon the remorseless people back to order return, but combined with no little difficulty. disturbed
in the middle, they scattered in all Pages out, each run on their own the dance begun, and it was
also in the That only possible to bring them back to perfect order, as the trumpets, to René's
character is brought to a dance set in and by the girls who are opposed
could not maintain its own clock forced to stop.

When the music but now, not again cause a new break new disorder in the pieces was begun, the
latter also saw officers have come to dancers order. Of white women but seemed only to have Mrs.
Noughton remained, despite all requests not yet present a step 'evening dancing, but bravely
at the Side of her just as boring husband had held out on one Canape. Madame Belard was started
with Monsieur Brouard, Brouard Madame with the captain, and Miss
Susan was gone.

Mrs. Noughton refused but this once with a stiff bow to take part in the dance and one of the officers
neugekommenen looked flat, easily consoled, around in the hall, among the island women pick
out a present, he possible with the As would waltz away when he saw Sadie, whose European costume
he was not in been struck. Quickly stepping on them, he put his arm around her waist and said:

»Wahine
come, then let's try as we come around, and containing the head stiff
that you'll not me dizzy and I turn you on, ".

René had come together again with Bertrand, and walked very slowly
to the point where Sadie was standing when he saw how they struggled
in the arm of the stranger and to wrest from him looked, but the young
officer, used already for many months long stay in the islands deal
with the women of Tahiti, only here believed a more brittle than ordinary
beauty found to have a laugh and said:

"Damn, my girl brace, you
just do not, I'll do nothing," Sadie was so frightened that they could
not get a sound on the lips and from the strong man already raised
felt when René was jumping to her side, and his hand with an iron
grip in the soldier's shoulder stapling, trembling with anger and
barely audible Voice said:

"Stand back, sir - that's my wife."

"You shall keep it, mate," laughed the young, somewhat crude naval officer, "but a little dance
they must first take with me and that helps her not a god. "

"Let go of me, Monsieur," cried at this moment Sadie, by René's presence encouraged their language
won again, and the officer, by the liquid of the French Islander was surprised, almost in his grasp
after around her waist as he already from that little sense of his more powerful René taken several
steps and was hurled back.

"Devil," he shouted, and the hand went involuntarily to the almost empty sword belt, Bertrand however,
sprang between them, and the officer also quickly recollecting where he was, and that here he
was not allowed to disrupt the festival, only the teeth biting each other and waved to the, defiant
over to him looking René to follow him. But other eyes had also seen the hint and understood,
and before René was able to free himself from Sadie, and the quiet
but to follow well-understood, even expected reputation, he felt a
hand on his shoulder, and the captain of the ~ ~ Jeanne d'Arc, who
had just been accidentally displayed his partner there, and witnessed
the whole lightning fast had been in another border incident, asked
him only to stay a few minutes on his site until he answered him bring
in from outside.

Then, without further following the officer that he reached it just at the door, seized his
arm and led him away also.

In the hall, however, was entered for the moment dead silence, the musicians faced the dispute
occurred, had almost as arranged, you stop blowing just as the dancers increased. The other
guests, though few of them the cause of so sudden controversy surfaced knew, saw that he was
already gone too far, otherwise than by blood again atoned for, and stood in that painful expectation,
the output of the whole to look forward, we are probably always in any imminent danger, she likes
us or threaten someone else feel creep up. Only the native girls who did not escape was that one of the
parties, had left the room, so of course believed everything settled,
and first the solemn and so sudden silence around him for a moment
astonished observers, won the light element to them but all too soon
the upper hand again.

  "Here Waihines,"
  suddenly cried the laughing
  voice Nahuihuas, sister Aumamas
  with the Lefevre has danced almost all night -

Quick!

Quick as a greedy shark Cuts the flood in half, Fast -

»Wahine rest," she whispered quickly around her, and the girl remained
silent, frightened in the middle her singing as she faces the serious
dark all 'saw that was rapidly and dismayed directed at them.

Madame Belard but knew how to exorcise this evil spirit was, and the
orchestra a sign factor that now quickly invaded the broken dance,
she grabbed his arm René and continued pulling the half-resisting
with him, she whispered softly and urgently:

"Oh, you must naughty
man that forcing a woman to dance with formal authority.

You have I chased my dancers, and are now also obliged to take its place. Besides, you feel it
not that everything takes care of you, "she added quietly. »Make You again of what you have
ruined, and show the people that you do not remember Scandal to deal with! "

René felt more like he understood that she was right, look after Sadie
reflecting he now saw in Bertrand's protection, he was also the memory
of the past, and his amiable dancer bending down, he asked softly:

"Forgiveness,
dearest wife, forgiveness for the fatal appearance to them here preparing
my heat, but - "

"Everything I know," Madame Belard reassured him, "just a misunderstanding
- quiet Monsieur, you I should not be heated again and flare up, as
long as I am now in your protection - A misunderstanding was the whole
cause, the young officer, you do not know, can not have the intention
to offend you or Sadie knowingly do, and would perhaps it is just
as easily imagine a finger cut off, to seek dispute here with me.

"

"But he has -"

"I know everything," interrupted Madame Belard him again, in good-natured impatience with the
head shaking when they were ceded to rest and nothing but indigenous women to be did not understand
what she said. "He has your wife according to our ideas of what is sent and heard, insulted,
and would be occurring on a European ball, could nothing more than
sword or pistol decide the dispute; Am I right?

"

? "Would the" René repeated astonishment - "and it's not here with my wife the same thing?"

!
'No, no and no again, "said Madame Belard but impatient," niche concepts for Insulation of
honor and decency - "

"But my wife is -"

"An islander, you like it turn and rotate as you want, and if they
an exception makes of the other of which it is, however, different
as night and day, there is but not on the skin to light, and cheerful
piece of a young officer, the in his arrogance, of the ship's band
on an evening to be free to just jump in here, how it can not get
a white dancer, looking around for the most beautiful Indian face
straight and then accidentally 'meets your wife could have just as
good a Negro suspect found in white skin, as an Indian woman who is
so completely dismiss their own customs, faces and European customs
with their language and attitude.

"

"But all her clothes had to betray him from the outset."

"As if you men ever sähet ever thus resulting in a poor woman has been cleaned, these gentlemen of
creation to please, "scoffed the girl, half in jest half in earnest," either Your screened very carefully
and on the most embarrassing, always with your bad taste probation, or you do not even know if
we carried silk or calico, if we spent hours in your society was - God, man is rude, "she sighed,
then after a little Break when Rene was silent and looked down before
him, with mock seriousness, "lie palpable ' I's in his way, and not
a small insignificant flattery he tells me that.

"

"Dear Madame Belard," Rene asked.

"I'm well again," laughed the little woman, "but René," she continued more seriously, and a Look
around reflecting on whether to hear no one, added - "They are also reasonable, set rather
than a small neglect or otherwise loving female away once, than you would if necessary - just
from - our color would.

The stranger is now once our private affairs do not see through so
easily, and the colorful natives never such a respect and pay attention,
as if they were his equal.

"

? And she is not, "said René surprised and Madame Belard bit her lips, she apparently hesitated
with an answer, they just afraid to express.

Dear René, "she finally said after a pause with real warmth in tone,
as you've never spoken to him, "Sadie is a sweet-hearted child, a
woman you prefer wins every day, and her whole soul is in their view,
but - "

"But? Belard Madame? "

"They have finished with it the return home," continued the little
woman finally decided to add - "You're limited to your bamboo hut
and the sea beach, and - I do not know if you have done it well.

"

"And Sadie not fit into any society?"

Yes - but society does not fit for them, "was the quick answer," if
they of the company would be received as what it really is, in all
her grace and sweet Femininity, no other woman could be higher, but
we are now living in a world from prejudices, and - can not through
the wall with his head.

"

"But I want the world nothing more - enough for me the happiness I possess - or to I let the
only non-care. "

Madame Belard shook his head and said gravely:

"You know it yourself,
Delavigne, and came here in conditions that you have can not be overlooked;
God grant that I am wrong, but watch that so little on the loose Life
of these islands - I do, and I want to thank my God, if Monsieur Belard
well think again, and learn to sail back home is.

"

"And what should prevent me also to return home?" Asked Rene, but his eye investigated here the ground
as he spoke, and not only as Madame Belard said he saw stood up, and before him, with a smile
on your tender lips, Susan, but without him to speak to her softly
and shook his head disapprovingly as, and walked slowly to the point
on which Mr and Mrs Brouard just getting ready for departure.

 Individuals can also love me and be worth, without my even the principle of the whole acknowledge
that yourself as you also recognize his father Conet respectable conduct, as his social virtues
have won because of love, as you otherwise but certainly in all respects his opponent are. "

"I
understand that at all," said Sadie quietly - he "is not at all like
a Catholic Priest - "

"Because you people have this class you just thought of you as brother Rowe and his associates
was described. In many hits that picture, I have nothing against it, but not all, not in the majority,
and - we should never think of a people the worst, Sadie. But good God, where we get lost? - Is
a call for men and women with this World out around us, and the sweet-hearted beings between
us that you pluck, and calls and the mother to distract from the long dark thoughts that you
so useless soul and transfer - are planted in so useless in the pure abiding ground? Weather
again Sadie, brother Dennis is a dear me seelensguter man, a man whom I respect and admire, because
I like everything just feel intimate with him firm conviction is what he says - even if it nonsense
- no my dear, I mean it's not so bad, he told me you should not only such crickets and thought
pressed into his heart, forcing it to you again in the tear's Eye, and then - then - "

"And then," asked Sadie, and, smiling through her tears her eyes looked
up at him - "and then?

"

»Weather Girls, do you do with me what you want," said Rene, pulling her towards him and kissing -
"I, too Nothing more to ask of God's world-wide, as they are our peace To leave undisturbed and
sacred, as we - "

"Hahahahaha," sounded at that moment a silver pure voice over to them, and when she looked
up surprised, jumped one of the native girl, here in Tahiti met, and despite its wild nature, in which
a faithful heart was hid, fond, over the low fence that separated
them from the neighboring garden, and came up to her.

There was a young girl of seventeen, perhaps, and very thin in the airy costume those girls
dressed, with short pareu ~ ~ or loincloth, and a light cotton-union over the shoulders, just as
René Sadien seen for the first time. - But the dark, with richly fragrant oil soaked hair adorned
with a braided wreath of artificial red Flowers, interwoven with
the snowy fibers of arrowroot, and the eye, which the young Couple
welcomed rested boldly, almost sneering at the loving group.

Aia was beautiful, beautiful as the palm of their forests, their skin color rather lichtbronzene to name
an ornament, and the figure full and lush, yet lean and flexible, but the soft glow of their fanciful
to the absence of the features of her compatriots such a peculiar Stimulus gives, and the
girl-like, without which the enamel is stripped from each female Beauty. Keck confident and
flashed around her eye, the eye encountered forbearing and defeat,
and their own bitter, almost contemptuous smile, her lips while played
around, did not serve to soften its expression.

»Joranna Sadie - Joranna René," she laughed, stand with folded arms before the group change and
looking at it - "Joranna you two - hahahaha - you do not sit there when if you René than an
hour before his first great love lies whispered in his ear, and your Both now all the conviction
If you had, you could not live without each other? - Bah, bah, How long will it last? - Surprised
me, but heck it, and if I had it before thought Sadie, you had me from the need to give powder,
which you told him in the Cocosmilch poured - perhaps lied to me
that false Wi-wi now before that I have the most beautiful was on
the other islands, and he would die if I no longer love him wanted. The captain risked prison time, but which
risked not love, and later put the young lady, as he drove home and in such companionship but
not in an English port to enter again wish to from the Sandwich Islands, where her progress,
which she also perfect to seek further.

Dead Mother's memoirs would provide highly interesting data in any case, it could only just
causes are closer to expatiate on them, but they never spoke about her past, and the only individual
who may be even higher, at least over a portion of it, Information
could have been, and I will come back afterwards, could not.

This much is certain, in the group of the Sandwich Islands, she had spent a long time and soon
soon on Oahu in Hawaii, lived, was then a Sandelholzfahrzeug to the friendly and gone Navigator
Islands, and had started there first a little husbandry to To establish in which they hosted more
sailors, and sold them intoxicating drinks, to them, as to many others, could throw at her.
From there, she stripped to New Zealand over to where she stopped again for many years, but
from here, "a" pillar of their age, as they have a little one-eyed
Irish cobbler called, who remained with her from now on, brought.

In New Zealand they had expelled the missionaries and placed on a ship that they both Samoa in the
group landed, and here the missionaries also moved another captain that they take no friendly-minded
beings on board and this time, from their fields totally out to feed the Gambier Islands, where
the Catholics have been longer Years had set. A Typhoon, however, who seized the ship and dismasted
stranded It was held at Raivavai and mother dead with her faithful companion again the way
to Tahiti that you, as the center of almost all Europeans in the South Pacific, the best shops
and the dilemma of the Protestant missionaries with the Catholics, and in any case more of a
safe resting place as any promised another island, where only one
or the other sect lived alone, and then would have prevailed.

The little Irish Schuster was indifferent to everything, and he had a way past, its culminating
point in the Sydney, found the rock, driven forth to the brook his life bubbled wild and mad
enough, had it up to the massive fall in the Depth, the first convulsions
only once over, again its complete rest, but not Clarity was obtained.

Murphy - he knew not whether he ever even had a different name - was also one that true patriots
~ "had left their country for their country's good" ~ (the best the home, the home of avoided).
As he was then obtained his freedom to be Mystery, this much is certain, that he just stopped
at that time a Catholic to be and began studying the Bible with a zeal that his admiration
of the Protestant Spiritual, in which position he was, would need to make sure they had only just
to he can get to witness his really strenuous activity. Miraculously, he behaved himself but constantly
in this study as if any terrible crime committing, and in constant fear of death and fear of
being caught live here. He sensed a Clerics close to him (and the pious men were sometimes
the joy of it and visit his girlfriend, although they will both come, rather than seen, because they
ate not only nothing, but looked around only to find grounds for charges) so mother could Not dead
quickly to hide his hand in a solitary bottle of brandy, which was perhaps too close to a tort
natives, as well as Murphy and his Bible in the next gourd went in, and everything about it
revealed what was just below the Hands came. Even if he does not think the whole week of work,
he took the now certainly first best shoe on, which came under his hands, and began to cut
it to around and to stand out and to sew, as if his life depended on his haste.

Tot mother treated him while on the Degrading Enste, and was not a dirty word on it English, Irish,
Gaelic and Scots, as in any of the known Polynesian Languages ​​and dialects, they have not
dulled him, no utensil in their whole House they do not already, in any formal or unceremoniously
opportunity to his head would have spun. Above all others but it was the Holy Scripture itself
to they are apart in their worst and most dangerous anger, and then in the case a quarrel with
her most meek husband (if I name these unjustified may use at all) often snatched from his
hand and threw to the head. Yes, they had already several times threatened the entire holy book
at the next possible opportunity - and the opportunity was always appropriately - to burn,
but miraculously she was always a own reluctance to admit they liked but never himself, and certainly
more in a superstitious fear as any roots a religious sense, which run from its threat, while
Murphy, who did not trust her but really, in turn, all you that the book yes once when he left
the hut to get out of sight, and gourds and corners constantly so moved. Is at a complete cease-fire
it was, if not used on the small Bücherbret on a bunch of different tracts of temperance and Bible
clubs spread in Tahitian language, and Murphy had placed his seat so that he continues as the book retained
in the eye.

I just said that Mother Tots outward appearance could not just serve special reverence inspire,
and though she was, as for their appearance, nothing less than vain.

Between 50 and 70 years, because miraculously kept dirt and wrinkles her face with such a veil covered
that they were soon one and then another closer believed had a normal ~ ~ pareu of grellrothem
once but now faded calico high with broad yellow stripes around the waist, beaten and the day
she wore a similar Outer garment, the umhing their thin figure in many folds, but the evening when
the cool sea breeze stressed on the coast, although the course, but from the Guiaven formally
enclosed cabin could not reach, it was a hot climate the mother got used to cool, and they pulled
a dirty old erbsgelben men top coat, which once had long hair have liked about her calico dress,
and tied the two buttons, it still remained firm, up under the neck. The skirt while she was
deep down below the knees, and as his Also deep pockets, sat in one of which she kept the only
enjoyment which they except the brandy indulged her snuff-box, so they had only this inconvenience
to fight, they dive down so deep to her at the hands of the continued soft carry bag had, and
was forced usually last, with her other hand also to help to To take hold back the timid pocket
lining.

Her neck she wore only, and an old straw hat on his head as he was probably in her youth once
been the object of their desires - the age had clung to it, and under the wide, strange shaped
and with some artificial, but faded even in art and crushed flowers
adorned the sides of the same long gray hair hung tangled forth.

The hat she was against sunburn and drafts, on the day the evening before your camp Matt sought in a corner
of the hut, she, however, a wide and well-maintained Mosquito net was stretched, and the skirt
was not disputed their property, or if they do, in any case only
divided, and Murphy, the former owner probably did his claims have
abandoned it by no means.

Or in the cool of the evening time, when it rains or other Weather cases, where even the wearing
of such an apology in this latitude Rocks found and could give the slightest degree of satisfaction,
of course, Mother had Tot buttoned it, and wanted to renounce the rights of possession Murphy is
shaky, had He used the sunshine - and he did so. - Every day at least once, made he retract the desperate
attempt in the rock, and endure it, and remained in it to the astonishment of all, about the time of
arriving guests, to him the water all over my body ran down, and he tore the useless piece of clothing
from his shoulders, aufpackte, curled and tried to force in a calabash, which he also gave up after
a while again and then sat with a sigh at his Bible - and the rock remained in the corner for
so long are until it became cool in the evening and again took him dead mother.

Murphy also contributed some very worn summer pants from some colorless thin Fabric, a cotton shirt,
a yellow striped vest, instead of the missing buttons on the relevant bodies tied with raffia, and
a total by the years of use already burned black clay pipe, but belonged to a certain extent
with his suit, and without he would just come out as easily as without the pants and the vest.
Only the old felt hat seemed to the state to hang on the bamboo wall,
and although he regularly wiping the Dust to remove it, remembered
him yet no one ever having seen below.

In Murphy were all the clothes in the middle, head and legs, he walked barefoot.

Murphy was a shoemaker, but of course only for Europeans, which he mending old shoes or, if they
delivered him to the leather, also produced new, and when the missionaries him and his companion
long been certain, the illicit sale of liquor drinks account, and sent, it would at least not
tolerated under her eyes, then turned the little one-eyed Irishman, yet also so useful, and
sometimes even essential in this regard that they turning a blind eye and the others tolerated
him rather than in wanted to see the case put their clients there
recently a drawn-Catholic Schuhmacher turn.

Murphy also felt a certain admiration for these men to him, less perhaps by their other beings
and their sermons, as by their fabulous Knowledge of the Bible impresses, and they always
served at the prompt. But as it happened - As indeed on many other occasions - where he met
with dead mother on the most virulent met, because if they hated anything in the world, so it
was their own words "After a" missionary schwarzröckiger. Publicly, they could but they certainly
have nothing against , As do more than complain when she found herself among her friends,
but secretly let them also make them pass no opportunity to play any one Schabernak, and the
broken bottles of brandy which the pious men often in their morning Services found were small
thing against the sharp purposes, the safe somewhere in them the soles of operation, when
Murphy related only the eyes of a finished shoe. Only the sole Lack of competition had been
able to get the little Irishman the customers until now.

Dead Mother's main business was actually the forbidden Brandy sale to the Indians they, in spite
of consuls and missionaries, despite spy Irishman and guards the "church board members" to keep
in full uninterrupted course knew, and doing a lot of money earned from the No one knew where
it was, and how to discover his hiding itself Murphys acumen to now had escaped. From the Indians
they got only partially ready money, which those of the Europeans, for products released, but
they also took everything else, coconuts and fruits, sweet Potatoes, chickens, pigs, mats, tapa,
Coconut oil, Perlmutterschaalen, pearls, what brought her was, it
did not matter, and she knew it again at the highest prices of these
ships, which it drew its spirit to sell.

Also to the smuggling of these they had again their special people, for the most part among
the Europeans, and they were just to turn their best customers. But we still find a nice company
in "Mother's death Hotel "as the bamboo hut of their guests as well was quite Papetee called,
gathered, and the old lady herself in high spirits, particularly today it was again achieved
a good throw, and quite a party of newly introduced rum and brandy happy in their "hiding"
recovered was what they had probably used to give thanks to the clever political excitement
both parties to busy their attention so completely the otherwise sharp enough turn guarded beaches.

stood
in the middle of the house on a lightweight bamboo frame is a fairly deep little iron In the
pan, out of the liquid coconut oil, a huge flaming wick, on the bare Soil, but around several small
fires were dressed with rotten wood or wet Pelted foliage, only to generate smoke and the evening
quite annoying mosquitoes away to . Keep In this smoke, and in the uncertain light of the
flickering wick were sitting or squatting rather on the low chairs, ten or twelve men, whites and
Indians, with three or four Indian girls between them, in a colorful mixture together while in a circle
between they went about a half-full bottle, from which everyone, if felt necessary, the Cocosschale
standing before him and filled the bottle then sent. Mrs. Tot sat not far which, again pushed
into Murphys white skirt on a regular cane chair, who Full circle could easily overlook, and
Murphy himself turned in his usual corner, where he had a special
light burning in a Cocosnußschale, his head pressed against the wall
and slept - in the bedroom how far it could be called if someone with
closed Eyes, but blindly, but constantly sought to rid him of a towering
mosquitoes.

The conversation had been conducted, however lively enough, but was mostly indifferent Objects
counted in the girls laughed and romped into the men's bottle took away and hid, and even
Murphy in his corner with a feather under the nose tickling, which forced him to cut horrible faces
and hands, to their unspeakable Delight, quickly and violently to go to the compromised part.
They remained always "To windward" from him, as she's called in their language, that is blind
to his side, in which they had to fear the least rapid discovery, and drove it so bad with him,
until at last, but without discovering his cunning as malicious torment channels, alert was,
the eyes (even the blind of this operation in throwing) ausrieb, and with a softly muttered
curse the mosquitoes freshened his lamp again a little that they burned brighter.

"And you, O'Flannagan, my jewel," is now mixed into the old woman, huddled in the chair, half pulled
her feet up and leaning against the combined arms folded against
his knees, the conversation partly pleasant listening, watching the
circling part of the bottle, or perhaps even aware hinübergehorcht
about the noise was, if they hear any suspicious noise outside - "You
want to stay again for a while now on the sweet island? - Bless your
eyes child, You would have to come over any time gelegnenen can, on
the whole blessed calendar year - Let me now the fools over there
happy, your girls, or I hate about you, g'rad when he wakes up - Wasps
stuff.

"

'Hello mother is dead tonight, bad temper, "exclaimed one of the girls defiantly -" will probably
still sitting here in the smoky Nest - honorably as in the sermon? If Waihines, out in the Free is it better
to let the turtle smoke by the fire. "And, laughing, the melody her lilting dance to the beat
them with their feet on the clock, she jumped from the other accompanied, where the greater
part of the sailors also followed, partly partly cursing, laughing, out into the open air.

"Believe That I, little mother," growled however, our old friend from the shore, without further
to reverse the noise of the Fort Spring ends, "of course, to be back the few hard-earned Shillings,
and who knows what else to risk Iren, your Wintervorrath you to "Bergthau"
appeal?

"

"Bah, man, there was no art to create the spirit land," but the old woman muttered, shaking his head,
"This time and money with sins deserve - no one looked, and I would have him do yourself in
Canoe on shore and bring up here, because if the fool of a shoemaker in the corner only for what
some other yet to patch up a deal gone leather, would be good. "

Murphy, who had become lively enough, the last words as their painful
allusion to growled understand, just something in his beard, but answered
nothing, and glanced off his pipe to stuff with which he from then
on, slowly but surely worked to close the bottle before all things
once in arm length to be of her, and that more then his good fortune
to leave, because the old man indulged no drop of their drink, that
as their Privatspeculation considered, if he did not pay quite as
good as anyone else for that.

"Haha mother," laughed his countryman, without taking the trouble to the designated Individual
to look - "is the work done now will you put them down, I say But unto you that your wish for
the time you soon will find it again until you take care under your mosquito net, because if the
French people here still get the upper hand, is the spirits as cheap
as the lime juice, and the Kanaka can be drunk on the beach, in the
open daylight.

"

"If the Wi-Wis wanted to get just the executioner," growled the old woman who secretly these
apprehensions have long shared, "but the English"

Ironsides, "they keep the thumb on the eye, and yes I would live to see the day where we see certainly drive
them out of the bay, like a Band of mangy dogs. "

"Phew," laughed one of the already half-drunken Indians, as he slipped
down from his seat, and, the stool under his head stretched out pushing,
long and stretched between the drinkers - "Poof, the Beretanis take
a mouthful - they are all words and no brandy - tomorrow early Schießcanoe
no longer in port.

"

"Nonsense, you Saufaus grumbled," but the old man, casting a surly look over at him, "What do
you know of the Schießcanoes that you enter with your tongue hanging if reasonable people . Talk
"

"What I know about the Schießcanoes" babbled but the islanders - am d'passed ran this evening - not
Toatiti is blind. "

"The guy has not at the end so very wrong," O'Flannagan said, shaking his head - "the venerable
Mr. Pritchard should not have brought such excellent news, otherwise if his comrades here have
struck a very different noise, and now confirmed this mean that sailing
the English, then we have in eight days, the French again the neck.

All I know is not right now what to wish for. "

"That they get both the devil," growled the old man sullenly in their strange dialect, "One
is obsessed so much on the bit of a poor old woman living to escape,
like the others, and where a ban everything, others allow all - they
give and properly ruin the best efforts of the islands just as soon
as possible.

But I have the choice, I will still prefer the French know as men, because the trade And missionaries,
and who wants to remain unmolested by them, must they then her calico and Buy Bibles for good coconut
oil and Perlmutterschaale, instead of such property established here to treat people's rattling
on in their own money bags. "

"Oh, let your worthless drivel Native American, and talks that another ordinary Man can understand,
"cried one of the English sailors here, the carpenter of the ~ ~
Kitty Clover intervened, followed with the greatest attention Tots
Mother speech was, and get out of life's not what they could actually
spoken - "Who is dead and where's the fire?

"

"Let's be good little mother," soothed the O'Flannagan, but the Englishman's plea as far as
noticing that he was in his native led the conversation continues, "through their Prohibition
of the brandy they weigh all this up again, and your still remains in their debt. - How much is
your equivalent of around that you earn every year Grogverkauf secret "?

"Counts of a poor widow, the bite they put in the mouth, heh?" Drove him but the old to - "that I
have to live on bread-fruit and Cocoswasser's is flat enough, you begrudge me about the not?
- Your earned more in one night by myself, as I get through to you the all year. "

"Haha mother," laughed the Irishman - "You probably learned the pride of the French, and Does
your state even risked your skin ohnedieß, and sits well and safe here in your comfortable house
while they call that when they seized him, maybe short lawsuit, made instead of spaciousness. "

"Bah, what you risked," muttered the old woman scornfully - "that she will plug it for a few
Weeks, or point of the island then you disembark you in Papetee, and increases in Papara back
to shore - it is extremely surprising that you really dare, in the circumstances, to work
again after dark for half an hour for fifty heavy silver dollars. "

"You talk like your's goes," Jim muttered darkly into his beard - "and I have also just no particular
desire you put the whole thing here too widely from each other, but much can I assure you,
I would rather ten thousand times with your glattrasirten Methodists , Along with the loud-mouth
guy run like the French, and - I do my very peculiar reasons that
no one approach just a little further, like myself.

 

"Ah - mon Dieu ~ ~ - ~ il est possible ~? - ~ ~ Bless me "were the first astonished exclamation
Ladies and gentlemen, because they came so unexpectedly discovered that a native René »To the
woman had" even any decency guilty to forget in these exclamations, and Sadie felt it more than
they knew, for the blood threatened her at that moment the wires to burst the temple, and she
bent down to the child her embarrassment - at least hide their blushes.

The two French women conceived but quickly, and well see which offense against all good practice
here, however, made only the first surprise, were them to Sadie, and they welcomed her hands
against stretching, almost cordial manner.

"Ah, there we Delavigne friend has kept a surprise," exclaimed the first speaker, Madame Belard,
laughing - "we have of course can not suppose that he has so much at home grown on the islands
would be. - To be greeted us warmly, while Madame insured, that we still visited no stranger
to you. Your husband has given us so much Love and kindness by telling you - just your pedigree
He did not mention, probably only to make us feel your kindness so
much more lively.

"

Sadie breathed easier, and the kind words when their meaning not equally perfect took her did
well. She had a first before coming together with those strange women, of which her René already
told, and in whose house they had wanted to introduce it, already long dreaded, whose first amount
had not then do they also served to reassure and the more beneficent her was now a warm salutation.
You just knew also true heart Taking neither false nor adjustment,
and the words as they were commanded her she said, women both hands
to stretching, and looking them open and friendly here in the eye:

René
will do very very sorry that you have found him not here, but its
me welcome and rest a little off at me from your ride.

I want the Small, however, give only under supervision, and then I quickly as possible. "

The ladies wanted to make the first defense polite, and spoke of "and"
disturb disturb "

Sadie led them to the friendly smiling sitting on the beach, and asked her to sit down there,
while she quickly ran with the child in the house.

"A charming mistress," said Monsieur Belard smile as she disappeared into the door was, and the
ladies together some whisper, "has really no bad Delavigne Taste, and speaks excellent French
- excellent. "

"Mr. Delavigne had us well in advance but also a hint about his family relationships can give,
"said Mrs. Noughton, an American who as yet no word with Sadie had
spoken - he "because both parties would have saved an embarrassment."

"Dear God, dear lady," that defended the living "Madame Belard, conditions on the islands here
are so very different from ours that we really have in many a must turn a blind eye and not even
allowed to be so terribly severe.

There are way and real connections between Europeans and islanders, and Monsieur has Delavigne
only by his wife said. "

"Dear children, what about you break up your dropped his head," you
here the other older Lord, one Monsieur Brouard and the much younger
husband of Lucie Brouard, in the speech, "if You're in Rome you have
to live like the Romans, "says an old proverb, good.

Madame Delavigne is a lovely young mistress, and probably able to attract a man. "

"And for how long?" Interrupted him with an almost mischievous smile, Madame Belard.

"For how long, madam," repeated with a somewhat flippant shrug of Desirable? - "I am not a prophet or wise men,
but these are family relationships, and many Indians might have been just as good a right to
the same question addressed to us Europeans - how to long?

~ ~ Mon Dieu, we need this important point at all in more detail in our wedding-ceremonial
for how long; account? - We need to know to make do with the fact that we are, and a question
which we will once done, gone into only into the blue. "

"It is but only an Indian," remarked, with a not contented View, Mrs. Noughton that from the United
States of North America is a not easy to conquering prejudice against any race color, she might
have a name or tribe which she wanted, had brought along, and always could not help thinking
that such could have people in the end even black blood in their
veins, or in other words, second or third generation, descended from
blacks, that of course any confidential, even friendly transport would
have been out of the question - "and if I had known this earlier,
would I have made her at least not my first visit.

"

"You must also remember, Mrs. Noughton," said Madame Belard contrast, some eagerly, "that we
Monsieur Delavigne not been invited to it, so no blame for the visit. We have come here voluntarily,
and if I have to admit that such a Relation always be unpleasant,
disturbing and has us in larger companies may now and then could embarrass,
so - "

"Attention ladies," interrupted Mr. Brouard here, with more subdued
voice, for Sadie seemed in that moment again on the threshold of the
house, and behind her a Boy who was carrying a large salver with wine
and fruit.

"So Mataoti," she said this in his voice, "Help the women and was a nimble Bursch, "but then
turning to her guests, she added cordially," but you have to not even set in the whole long
time - please give me your hats and make yourself comfortable, René, you may not expect it back so
soon, for he and Monsieur Lefevre are the political conditions due
to Papetee gone, there still many things perhaps to discuss with their
friends.

"

"Hahaha, that's excellent," laughed Mr. Belard, "and to escape that
we're out riding!; it is formally comedy played today at the residence,
and since the missionaries Actors with you, we were afraid the thing
would still end up being too boring.

"

"So and eat at least do not drink," asked Sadie, who feared, not without
reason, we talked Could we see a direct path to religious and wanted
to avoid in any condition - René would welcome heartily when he heard
that you liked us.

"

The ladies were still hesitating undecided what to do - they seemed to be one before the other
to geniren, Sadie moved with such ease but in the, but their strange circle, and her request was
so fresh and genuine from the heart, that in its naturalness each empty politeness formula already
impossible from the outset made, and even had Mrs. Noughton to confess
at last, that this islander is an unusually amiable nature, the one
could well be weighed - if they just had not had the fatal bronzed
skin.

The women were then soon to the round, with a clean cloth-covered table set, Monsieur Belard was sent
out after the horses, to see whether they stood quietly and Mataoti ordered from now for them
to stay, and few minutes later, the company was very confidential together, and Madame Belard and Brouard
had - they did not know how they come to the little islander, which is completely pure with
her French is the native Forgot vorzuplaudern made, so much to tell, as if they had been long would
be known months, and not just only today, in minutes almost, come together. The men stayed back in
it, of course not, especially Mr. Brouard, who took his seat next to Sadie, thawed on properly,
and was a attention to the little islander, that he its neighbor to the left, Mrs. Noughton,
total about neglected, because the well of whole conversation - the French language only superficially
ohnedieß powerful - more watching as sympathetic, and quite cold
and seriously followed.

A full hour they had been sitting and chatting, and eating fruits and French Claret drink it,
and Mataoti was outside with the horses become quite impatient as Madame Brouard, which was also
quiet and monosyllabic last, and the conversation her friend and the men left almost alone, finally
warned to leave.

M. Brouard did not yet gone so well he had amused himself and the ladies started now to say
goodbye to her new acquaintance.

Sadie told them in simple terms how they look that it would please them with her, make and how
happy it would René when he heard that she was here and eat and had drunk - "we can keep pretty
good neighborhood, here in Tahiti, she sat added, and with a friendly handshake and Joranna,
Madame Belard Brouard and also invited to visit her again, left the
small society of the garden, climbed out the shuffling dancing horses
again, and galloped a few minutes later with chattering Hoofs along
the road to Papetee down.

"Sadie," whispered a small voice because, as the sound of hoofs on the hard road still was
not faded, and the young woman who was still listening, and in deep
thought the more and more blurred tones seemed to listen, turned quickly,
and almost as alarmed at the cries that came from the neighboring
hedge.

»Aumama? - And why do not you come over? "

"Is the coast clear?" Asked a clear, laughing voice.

"You mean the foreigners? - They are gone, but I thought you'd be with Lefevre to Papetee gone?
"

The young woman at the hedge shook his head and said with a laugh:

"I wanted first, but as I went along René stayed at home, which then align themselves more and more
men, and - like the doings of their company not me, nor with the language I can not be as good
as you finish. But I come across - "and a small door opening, which occurred between a flowering and fruit-bearing
orange led through hedge Aumama, Sadie friendly neighbor in the garden and kissed her, hitting her
arm around her on the lips.

She was dressed in the simple Indian dress, with long loose, down to the ankle falling down
coat, the front only to be buttoned at the wrist, without shoes and stockings, covered his head
with a slight Panama men straw hat, under which only a few big deep dark red ~ Pink flowers
of the peering sinensis ~, and the rich, saturated with perfumed oil jet-black curly hair was almost
hidden again.

Her figure was tall and lush, but with the wider, the local islanders
own construction Shoulders, even the usually small and dainty feet,
according to our ideas of beauty a little too much bent inwards, and
the shape of the face but, however, be noble and Own eyes with a fire
under the brows finely chopped red hot.

Aumama was at all the perfect type of a Tahitian woman, the eyes themselves, despite the living
the sensual soft on the trains were not wanting, and so as the two
young women-friendly embraced, and overshadowed by the waving palm
trees and shade, between the Blüthenbüschen were, one would hardly
imagine anything more charming to the world.

"You had to make visits," said Aumama finally smiling after the first
greeting was over.

"Yes," replied Sadie, slightly blushing, "and indeed unexpected, but why you did not come over?
"

Aumama shook more serious expression on the trains with the head.

"No," she said, "I do not fit with the people - we did not - and not to us - it is better we
stay out of each other. "

"But, you foolish child," said Sadie, "Did you not know as I do now, with one joined them for
life, and also because you want to say of him that you do not to fit each other? "

Aumama sighed deeply, and turned her head slightly to one side, she was now quite serious become,
and the entire former cheerfulness seemed gone.

"I hope that we adapt to each other - for life," she finally said softly, "it would at least be
very sad if we ever find your mind.

But she was quick, and then blending into lighter tone added, "in our families is something another,
with the man we love, we stand in one rank, and he understands us, we understand him and in our
country, he clings more easily to our customs, or teaches us gradually his, two peculiarities
in each merge. With the firm has it's different, especially with foreign women, and believe me, Sadie
- I have it Experience. The whites, "she added softly," take us for a minor strain, because we
used to pray to idols, perhaps - "

"But they have done this, as their ancestors at least," she interrupted quickly Sadie, "Father Osborne
has told me himself. "

"Have they said Aumama surprised," this is the first time I hear it;? But perhaps nor because
we are not as smart as they are, and so adept at reading and writing. Our dark skin color is
not found them so beautiful - at least the women, and jealousy may often also, and not infrequently
be the cause of their back to us and - hurt. Exceptions may exist among us here, so I think Sadie
is you're probably well-informed feel they will, because I realize
that you are indigenous and wild grown girl superior in many many
pieces and the white women are nearly equal standing, but for I do
not like to - I laced it up the chest, when I am with them, and the
cold make eyes must see that they throw at me as if it merely a favor
of them would be that they tolerate me between them.

Since it is far far better on me with my children friendly Beach, in the noise of my trees,
and to me the wide, wonderful lake - I think it is also for no luck
for us, as she began slowly, as in right earnest senses added, "That
the white women have come in recent months to us.

Life in Tahiti since become a different, and I myself do not feel as comfortable in the new
environment more - I myself have also changed, perhaps, or - have others. "

"AIA has made you sad and serious," said Sadie, taking her hand kindly, "they was here with me,
and I - "

"Aia" she interrupted quickly and violently Aumama, but with a softer voice, she continued, "Aia
is a poor, poor girl, and she can not make me angry, but "- and her eyes sparkled in its own
wild, almost eerie fire - "not endure I also like them, and what she has endured. In that white God,
Oro's pictures and smashed our temples broke down, even in those temples - silent "Aumama, but
the hand still, as an oath stretched up, the curls, of which the straw hat had fallen off, wild umflatternd
her forehead, the eye glowing in its own light, it stood for half a minute in silence, himself
an image of the wrathful deity of their country. Because, as unwilling to himself, shook she
suddenly his head, stroked the hair from his forehead and said, angrily every thought bannend
force.

"I was a child, Sadie, a moody child, am and come for some weeks I myself exchanged sometimes still
so great dreams and images Zwing 'I properly even up to torment me and - even angry. - But continuing
on with them, happily do we have and look forward to life, because the sky clear and blue still
laughs about us and the Gods that covered the table in the old days
of our fathers have with their meals, we even now do not lose their
gifts.

"

»Aumama," she said as Sadie, more warmly than reproachfully, "You still speak of the gods; and're
a long, long been a Christian, so I hope will become a good Christian. Do not sin, because God's
grace is also a God of vengeance and punishment, and father Osborne would have done infinitely
hurt if he would ever hear you talk like that. "

"And not everything in the world I could have hurt him," cried Aumama
quickly, he "was the The only well that kept me in God, the only one
to me is the possibility of such Suspect being understood and, let
us indeed to the other the disunity and hatred of the other had to
force priests to despair.

He was a good man and had him Feranis love, but that he prayed to his God in other ways, as they
do it, but - Sadie " - They drove slowly and continue as hesitantly, "You're still so - so sure
- that he was right? "

»Aumama?" Sadie exclaimed frightened, and looked in amazement at her friend.

"Have you heard of the old man?" But said this in a low voice to her bending over, and the questioning
eyes fixed upon them, "the other side lives on Bola Bola, long long
years already, and such strange things from the God of the Christians
told?

"

"From the God of Christians? - Is he not himself a Christian? "

"No," said Aumama quickly - 'no - he has assured himself there - he
is from the strain the Christian God who crucified, and to say That
would not have been the Messiah.

"

"That the Jews," said Sadie surprised, "but I did not even know that stem from that people
still live in? "
"Many, many of them will still be in the distant land of the whites
and said the old man that was not crucified Son of God, and do not
have the right teaching brought knew each other because the Christians
do not even fought and fought and therefore against each other, and
had already killed many thousands among themselves to prove who is
right and have the true God and Saviour. "

"And if the man is not
telling the truth now?"

"Not the truth? - There should be an old
old man, and gray hair and gray beard have, and argue they are not
as well as to their God? - Who is right? and how the man of Bola Bola
says gives it in his own country, among Christians, many other Sects
that all hate each other and preach against each other. I
should have been cleverer than me to meddle in matters that concern me nothing. "

The French in Papetee thus were not entirely in agreement - they wanted above all new support points for
the influence exerted by English encroachment, and the natives become suspicious of the stranger
seemed to be that they, as the husband of one of its native girl, and in the former home of the old
Mr. Osborne dwelling, even a sense as one of their own, had not even considered as a Wi-Wi,
and yet now had appeared hostile and violent towards her. The so very friendly relation in he
stood up to that point with them, at any rate seemed relaxed, if not entirely solved.

René had but much too large to take good courage and light to something like this to heart; as
it indicates on the one hand against his countrymen remained, and on the other nothing Evil against
the Islanders was aware he still wrong with both parties, and knew them both to regain for themselves.
Such little teasing and misunderstandings were but not to him many other things which came to
him in the way of disturbing to ignore, leave, and only the home, its Sadie, his small-hearted
girl it was all those times almost savage pride happy to play with which he was an oppressive
relationship at that time had withdrawn and thrown a new life literally
in his arms.

Nothing was more less the social life of the islands under the various and so few French people,
a most friendly, own interests, even your own risk association people
even more firmly with each other, as if it were anything else been
able to do, and the light French blood floated on top at all.

Especially in the Belardsche much contributed to this family that is really infinite and recognize
worthy Trouble was in a friendly tone Papetee obtain, so to actually create the first, where, since
the mixing of different races something like this infinitely more difficult. The Europeans usually
had all their old habits, but also brought over their prejudices in a whole new world in which
neither a passport nor the other wanted, and could only by untiring
perseverance of individuals who had at least rid of the latter, getting
them to amuse themselves as a community - they wanted nothing more
from them.

A real obstacle remained but for larger companies, the lack of European or Rather, white women,
of whom there were very few on the island, and a real social life but absolutely necessary, indeed
essential goods. With the indigenous and "with Europeans about average only" superficial women
could dare we do not deal in such kind of well, the Indian women were beautiful and alive, even
good-natured and amiable, but fits nowhere less than in the company of sophisticated Women, while
the Protestant population, which in this respect almost entirely of the Families of the missionaries
was a closer remained traffic out of the question. Even the enemy Booth settled the revenues
of these two parts of society today that they had never been able to unite in this respect,
since the strict Orthodox clergy each Type of game and dance already regarded as a sin of the flesh
against the spirit, only in their withdrawn seriously believed life held to find the path to
heaven, and from, were much more confident in it mocked French often,
but certainly never visited.

Now this was also because both the natives, especially as the missionaries to prove that they
in no way intimidated by the steps taken place in the English interest, but on the contrary,
still full of courage would be fresh, and still want almost fourteen days be passed after the
events described above, as Mrs. Belard from their countrymen it supports, be insisted on all
political and social barriers In spite of giving a ball, and although it remained nothing for
it but over that, while they struggled for a long time, wegzusetzen and native women, one of
which is even the most respected could choose to consider this really,
though it were the ball by a somewhat savage character was.

But the missionaries were even here they can interfere in the way because they had too much Influence
on the really decent part of the female population of Tahiti, on women and daughters of the first
chiefs to whom the dance as something purely sinful, sinister by their Strictly prohibited
and teachers with more severe penalties, where they were able to come into force was to be demonstrated.
Even Sadie was afraid not only to the reluctance of clergy to Excite
but their religious meaning, perhaps with a kind of fear of the stranger
connected, they held back even by the thought of such pleasures.

René wanted but not bind to, but not until Sadie saw and felt that they with him a prolonged refusal
to do hurt, so maybe would incite unrest in the house, added she finally his wish, but her heart
beat there when she or her consent was, and it was as if she should commit a wrongful act.
Anxiously she tried it excuses for their commitment, and her good heart she left the place
soon enough. René was yes but now even the Europeans and he was certainly happy to be with his
people - Sadie did it yourself how happy it made them, at times a resident of the Atiu to see,
and that was it just those small little way away from Tahiti, and
the Feranis lived so terribly far, because they should be the cause,
which held him back?

In Brouard they reason, it was, and Belard once been with René; only not with Mrs. Noughton,
the American woman whose cold repulsive behavior by its very nature
pained, René also felt no necessity to visit the people when it is
not exactly a Matter of business led her house.

Despite all the obstacles in their way down Belard knew, however, any difficulty to overcome - the
French wanted to dance, and it needed stronger stuff than the sermon
a Missionairs to prevent them from doing so.

Mr. Belard therefore gave a ball, and all the French Papetee as the officers of the still in
port ~ ~ Jeanne d'Arc were invited.

Sadie was afraid of the evening, she did not know why, but she was not allowed to refuse to go, because,
first, Mr. Nelson himself had given his consent that they should
at least take part in society, and there was even invited Lefevre
with Aumama - Monsieur Belard women had to dance - they could not
rule out there, could René hurt not.

The required preparations are not many - their dress, although according to European Interface
was so simple and easy as possible, and fresh flowers in their hair
adorned the winsome face of the young woman more beautiful than it
would have been able to diamonds and pearls - Maybe they knew it.

Monsieur Belard lived in a charming small garden house in the ~ ~ Broomroad, the next Block from the
beach from hidden deep between broad-leaved bread-fruit and papaya in Palm trees rustling
on the roof, and the court densely planted with oranges and bananas, the shadow motion. The
house itself was built light and airy, but already had glass windows and Jalousieen green, with
broad high Verandah and a fairly large comfortable room, to today's celebrations with flowers
and palm branches that easy, but very tastefully decorirt was. Wunderlich stabbed the other
hand, of course, from individual pieces of a civilized world, found their way to the South Seas,
and the simple wooden walls and tropical Vegetation would not quite fit. The Meuble were thrown
together, like happiness over and out random individual pieces to this remote part of the world,
or even the carpenter had hand in recent times, they made from local wood. Such was on a chest
of a gelbgebeitzten Alabasteruhr Perlmuttermuscheln between Manila and blank polished teeth of
Spermacetifische - a small mahogany corner cabinet decorated a few dearest French Porcellanvasen
full of fragrant orange blossoms, and along one Wall were two excellent, and padded with damask-covered
sofas, again with those a narrow and long, did not harmonize Irishmen of deal whipped table,
filled one corner, but the most valuable products of this country filled with fruits was covered.

But
strange and colorful than the furniture, the company itself was mixed.

The

truly educated circle of friends to such a submission, if not fixed,
the line had to be further considered and is limited in such a tight
space on the small island it was not even able nor among the few who
were here to excrete - Because it would have very good reasons to
have been present.

Everything therefore which is only somewhat made to education and claim from the mother country,
or even came to the civilized world, the Protestant clergy than was invited, and assembled the
small villa in the most peculiar costumes here, so strangely mixed folk how well yet ever since
Papetee was, had come together on such a small space.

When René entered the room with Sadie, where they warm Mad Belard in their living but As received,
were just the officers of the ~ ~ Jeanne d'Arc arrived. The Presentation was quick and easy
enough over, René had previously learned about some of these and
was greeted in the friendliest of them.

Madame Brouard had not yet appeared, and as everywhere Mad Belard otherwise and in fact was claimed,
and Rene had a lot to talk to the officers, remained Sadie alone,
and looked just a little embarrassed by some to a friend, do not rely
so completely to be in the strange room, when Mr. and Mrs. Noughton
entered the room, and after the Sadie wanted to go over the usual
introduction.

Mrs. Noughton turned his head to the other side and did not see Sadie, and the poor little Woman
was shy and hesitated for a moment as if they always something cold to she should speak to
as alien or not, but Rene just went with two of the officers down
the hall and she was there alone.

"Madame Noughton," she said softly, and touched with her finger tip arm of the now densely her
passersby.

Mrs. Noughton slowly turned his head toward her and looked at her.

"I am pleased to meet you here," said Sadie.

Mrs. Noughton politely bowed the head against her, Mr. Noughton made
a somewhat stiff bow, and they went both spouses, without further
exchange a word with her past, the other End of the hall to.

Sadie stood rooted to the ground, and her heart beat anxiously and leave the breast.

"You yourself have not even recognized in the strange clothes," she murmured softly, and finally
half smiling to himself - "they believed it would be someone completely different and strange
- or - "The blood rose in full stream back into the temple and from there to the heart, and they
had at that moment God knows what reason given at home, be with her little Sadie and to be able
to leave the cold outside society. But it did not, and when she, again a little more prepared,
then looked around the hall, she saw Mr. and Mrs. Noughton alone and stiff on two chairs sat
down and watched each rigidly in front of him. At this moment began in the next room set up and
by the Joan of Arc ~ ~ brought over with Music Corps playing his merry ways, more and more
guests were also in the hall, including several familiar faces - a hand suddenly laid her on the shoulder
- It was Aumama who watched her laughing in the face and the gloomy
shadows of the just begun Sadie's soul to lay on, more friendly to
the first impression of her was opposed.

"What they both are sitting over there all alone and stiff?"

It whispered Aumama, the observed that Sadie had looked over at them. "Bless me, how quiet and
honest they are, as if they were in the church - Mr. Aue could not sit stiff. "

Sadie smiled, but she turned her head away from the group - it was
her as if the two People would just as stiff and concluded there sat
back, not to talk to her - And what they had done to them? - "And
Aumama, you're also coming here to the strangers"? she finally said
softly - "I thought you do not feel comfortable test between them?"
-

"No, that thu I not," replied quickly and whispered the young woman
- "I have at home crying and quarreling - I wanted to stay away, but
Lefevre - they "turned upside down off and was silent, and added last,
slowly - "it did not go differently."

"I would also rather have stayed home," said Sadie naively.

"And I do not know," went Aumama to continue looking down on himself, "I feel my clothes you've
never noticed, even on the contrary, I have the long and wide outer garment often far rather
considered superfluous, just today - "and she looked half embarrassed about -" come I here
so strange as strange and insignificant before himself, as if I do not hergehöre between dressed the
people - they hergehangen with everything to get what only the foreign merchants in their Shops
have, I do not even barefoot and talking their language. Whether because they also probably
so as to Muth has been when they first enter our country? With you it is probably different
- you have Up quite matched her dress.

"

"Well for me is it's not," Sadie said, shaking his head, "but I feel that it is now once no
other way, perhaps you resign yourself into it also. "

"No," replied Aumama rapidly - "never in my life, the more I in contact with the strangers come,
the more I feel that we are not made for each other. Are you proud of it, and for what? -
They wear shoes because they are not clumsy with their thin soles of our Corals can enter
- I've seen it recently, like bathing, the women and not to take
a step on a sharp ground could.

So that's why they put their feet in such tubes, and then I will
be ashamed that I do not wear them, because I have just can go where
they are not able?

"

"And yet you are doing it," said Sadie, smiling.

"Because we are just Thörinnen, and respect the stranger more like
our own native customs. - But look at what to wear for gold glittering
dresses Feranis outside of the ship, "interrupted they now own, as
her glittering uniforms of the officers of the warship's in Eye fell.

"And those are now Christians, Sadie, and good people, and perhaps so colorful state bear, and
we forbid any Mitonares jewelry.

"We do not know if it is not sinful is pure gold, and concealed carry,"
she said softly Sadie - "at least not when we go to God's altar -
the men pray there may ever since then of course they can take what
they want.

But turning back to here and there is also Mme Belard - she is the friendliest of all foreign
women. "

The conversation was here interrupted the two women, and in fact even
now entered quick succession several other guests, the hall, some
of whom also with indigenous Women welcomed two female friends sincerely,
and each subsequent conversation between them interrupted.

And what was the motley company gathered there.

The officers of the Corvette, of course, appeared in their uniforms, and Mr. Noughton, Mr. Belard
Brouard and as René and some others were in a black frock coat, and
indeed in the European Ballcostüm come.

This was particularly the way the domestic women and girls strange before, and once it was
done in secret ways, giggled and whispered not little about it.

A large portion of the other guests, however, was dressed in the lightweight and comfortable dress,
the climate-related and actually calls, light summer fabrics, worked wide and airy and letting
the limbs above all, freedom of movement. Strict etiquette was at all in a place not take place
where it already two-thirds of the fair sex irretrievably would have
excluded, and more than two-thirds belonged to the indigenous race,
the only in part can be moved had to wear shoes and socks, but otherwise
only ~ ~ the pareu the wide loose robe, and underneath was bare feet.

Aumama was the type of these, selected from the most beautiful girls of that beautiful tribe Schaar.
The Pareu she wore consisted of a semi-matte green with deep red silk threads traversed and patterned
fabric, in fact, only a simple piece of stuff that the lumbar beaten and inserted on the left
side was, about this but she wore it, only by Europeans, and probably introduced by the missionaries
outer garment, which open in front, with long sleeves and buttoned at the wrists until something
fell on his knees, and consisted of fine French fabric, the thin through a red silk Chinese Shawl
held together in the belt, and the shapes of the body betrayed more than veiled. Through the black
curly and silky, with a fragrant coconut oil soaked hair wall her, interwoven with orange blossoms, the tissue
of a lovely green and red creepers, and the gold earrings were almost over the landscape of drooping
buds of jasmine ~ ~ covered. Aumama that be swift, as it was in the visual language of their
country was reached, one of the most beautiful women of the island, and like most of their age,
stood her something darker skin color only to their own advantage, while the large light clear yet
deep so black Eyes like diamonds, pure and fiery on the tender of red-tinged, lichtbronzenen
Cheeks glowed.

Several other Indian women were similar to Aumama dressed, at least with the same average the
robe and the like, the captains of whale catchers in the latter time Speculation, and partly
by France, Germany and England brought. Two of the women only had civilized so far as to wear
socks and shoes, but the new dress them sat not comfortable, they scraped away while walking
with their feet, they were not yet accustomed these high enough to lift the soles also get free
from the ground, and garters press they might well, for, as they
only believed unnoticed, since they took down the giving to such coercion
unusual blood vessels air.

Sadie perhaps alone of all the other native girls seemed to be in the alien costume have found perfectly
good, and moved with such ease it, as if they been used by youth on it would be. None the
less it was dressed almost as easy than their former playmates, in a simple robe of unbleached
silk, red sash tied as well as Aumama, just different section of the dress itself, to went down to
the ankles and the cute in white stockings and thin fine leather shoes staked feet just had to
be visible. In her hair she wore a dainty braided Ring of Mandelblüthen,
and around the neck is a simple string of red coral.

By the officers of the ~ ~ Jeanne d'Arc, until now only the captain to the first lieutenant and
some Seecadetten present, the second lieutenant, the shops were longer on board, as several other
naval officers were also expected to have, and Rene was just the Captain of the Corvette, which
he announced some time ago and to some extent friends become, in the hall and down, as Monsieur
Bertrand, the name of the second-lieutenants appeared and immediately walked to the captain
to make him any message. René entered few steps away, the report, which was perhaps a secret, not
to hear, but his Involuntary eye stuck on the young man, whose trains
struck him so well known and its he is yet, despite all that could
not remember clearly.

At that moment the officers shot at him, and the captain was on the
the young people present themselves as both "almost at the same time,"
Delavigne, Bertrand cried and embraced and kissed each other firmly.

Classmates were from earliest youth, and one can imagine with what
joy Both of them here, almost at the antipodes, the memory of the
home to the country, according to so many years of absence welcomed.

We may have torn us of all that we once loved dearly and was torn may be the tie that bound
us to the deserted shore, where our cradle stood, indifferent we
like to hear from strangers talk about, hear, unmoved even call the
place our children's toys, was witness to the growing strength. But you can please me in the end help them.

"

"I you? - As I now seem's I have all hands full to do in my own skin to bring security - is
our old friend on land? "

"Yes, and here just rummaging around in the neighborhood, I have called you so that you're running
it not in the hands - "

"Only my account?" Jim asked his companion with a somewhat dubious look.

"Just for your sake? - No, "said the honest Jack -"

I do not quite see why I Child should not call it by its right name, I myself was not all the same,
the old History to see again warmed up, I still do an involuntary
witness of the whole would have to be.

But really, Jim, as I have since heard it from our boat man not just
seems to have fallen in love with you, you're one of the whale catcher
lying down in the bay - are the good people on board?

"

Jim hesitated a moment with the answer and glanced sideways to his
former comrades across.

"You wonder if I you were not here about in the way?" Said the latter,
laughing.

"No, no," replied the Irishman quickly and maybe a little embarrassed his mind so quickly guess and
to see pronounced - "I not only knew immediately what you mean by that - yes, the captain is good
enough - Rally Mac, you've got it so still know from before.

"

»Rally Mac, Mac Rally? - No, not under the name, as he was otherwise - you can trust me old
boy, "he added, laughing, as he saw the Jim hesitated with the answer
-"

I care Everything about it sure to come from the board of the French and even if I - "

"But why do you not to swim across the English, who would take you
with pleasure," said Jim.

"Because I have my very good reasons for it," Jack growled angrily, "I feel an even so much dislike
for British officers like you, and - perhaps have as much cause -
So Mac Rally - "

"Do you remember Bill Kooney still on?" Asked Jim.

Jack whistled softly to himself and laughed mischievously.

Bill Kooney, "he said after a brief pause -" Bill Kooney - but what the hell is the whale came to
the trap? "

"This is a naive question," said Jim, "but my boy, if this is so that the company - as your
name again, Lieutenant? "

Bertrand. "

"This means, the Monsieur ~ ~ floating around here, there it is time for me to walk from the Cours
- until I can get to him maybe once in the correct, I must be so
on board.

"

"But when we meet again?

I'm eager to know exactly when your sails and Bill Kooney but also like to see again, discuss
with him my plan. "

"I no longer belonged on board," said Jim - "that I would harpooner
have I thy curious Petty only be prevented.

"

"You no longer belong on board," Jack asked, astonished - "the devil,
because you probably have your »Geschäftsbüreau" now on land?

"

"At times," Jim said evasively.

"And the business go well? - So do not be afraid, "he continued, but
added quickly when he saw that the new-found comrades seemed to put
the issue to something in embarrassment, at least was not answered
immediately and unconditionally from him - "I'll present you into
the enclosure, uncertain, however, honestly say even better one for
a time on solid ground and in good company here, I survived the hardships
only a little .

To be at rest Damn, but you live only once in the world, and what continues in a flay and toil
like a dog! "

"I just do not know whether you would like here," said Jim.

"That let me worry," laughed the sailor, "if I lifted but safely, a desertion in my situation is just
too damned dangerous, because they got me again, I'd like each other,
not only stuck in my own skin.

I could be you Perhaps also in some of its benefits. "

"I have no doubt in the least," Jim said quietly, "but you probably think it over, is a large reward placed
on the capture, it is not Indian by the villains to . Trust The best thing would surely once you were
speaking with Mac Rally. "

'Well - yes - maybe - I'll see now, yes, "said Jack as pondering his chin painting and furtively
looking over here to Jim. - "And if you even here was found on the banks where you're there
to ask the most? "

"You know a place here on the island, which they" dead mother's hotel call "?"

"No - I never step fifty have been away from the beach."

"You'll be able to ask him - every sailor knows him."

"Do you live there?"

"No, but it is the only place I visit regularly."

"Good, expectant, 'he noted to me, and now ~ ~ good bye, Dick, could
our boat man miss me otherwise."

"Call me not only threw Dick," an Irishman, "the name I was uncomfortable, and I want to not like
to be reminded again and again to those unfortunate time. "

"Did you conscience?" Laughed Jack.

"Bah remorse - nonsense - but no desire to adorn one Raanocke, old forgotten Stories for. "

"Well, well, so you, Jim, if you sounds safer, you could at the time but always look around for
a quarter or once a haven for me - if it's only for the case of need would be, the further inside,
the better I's. So good night - got good care of your Neck "- And hinlachend quietly to himself,
he left his friend and went back, where he was drumming The Islanders could still hear the tireless
dancers bring new and fresh beckoned.

"Well," said Jim quietly and thoughtfully to himself, as the old friend from the old days disappeared
in the bushes was, and his footsteps faded further and further in the dry deciduous - "Many thanks
for the warning, but I know just yet, if I my neck in your company
safe or unsafe, is my old fellow, and fatally, the test just as dangerous.

Well, at least I'm on my Huth and in front of you pretty sure that you are not in themselves
school chattering; Maybe I will, however, the French rookie once occasionally under the fingers
and then we can compensate for our bills off together. Now, by the way, while it is still day,
I will not go back on board, but my business here get the country and I trust the Islanders not
only much, they are indifferent to All that they are not directly in the air, shake and had
to have changed a lot, if they would ever get to them once at a decisive
blow - be the now executed, where he was going. - Well - I have but
again extremely kind to have experienced that the company is in a
French uniform and run around here - but will look on that he is first
presented to me, and I'm not him "-.

And with a careful look around, because Jack's warning had not missed its effect, he suggested to the
Area in which he was quite well known here, sideways in the thicket, the city to achieve on a
different path and disappeared soon after in the dense, behind him again closing Guiavenbüschen.

Footnotes:

[A]
A ship expression "Where are you from - from where are you sailing?"

Second chapter

# Sadie and René. #

Ah - the breast lifts free properly, as we the wild wild doings of
hatred and sin, Carelessness and raw sensuality turn your back, the
forest, tend towards the unprofaned forest.

We still have not all the colorful wild groups behind us, who scattered in all the several huts celebrate
all the little trees their orgies. Hark, from over there across loud and lively drum beat under
the palm trees - laughing men and girls' voices and jubilant choir, and from there? drowned
out the sharp sound of a small, in the branches of a Orange tree during suspended bell, and
the monotonous song of pious hymns in Tahitian language, of the venerable men even sung on a weekday,
because today the islands so the right, the "one true Protestant faith" were saved.

Into it but the loud screams happy Sang half drunken sailors on the beach down draw new pleasures. Here
a female figure in wehdurchschauerter fear crushed before the wrathful God, his gaze anxiously
upward, as if she feared that the must follow the beam avenging Zornesworten that the white religious
man just thunderstruck had from the simple wooden pulpit stand on the heads of the small "chosen band"
- Where a wild brown semi-naked girl's arm lightly around the shoulder of a French soldiers down, chatting
to her and Kosst while the smiling glance free and quiet to the friendly blue sky out, and maybe
with half an ear the distant bell sounds familiar listens.

Contradictions wherever the eye falls, and only nature itself has
remained true in the great wild confusion - only nature itself, which
preaches God's greatness and goodness in every time, sows and their
gifts of love to the children of the Almighty, whatever sect they
belong to, what name the lip whispers when the heart, lost in silent
adoration, up amazed at his miracles, and indifferent to the process
of obtaining their foreheads to the west or East tend to pray - pray
it all to Him.

So, the further we leave the confused great bustle Papetee's get blurred, the Dissonnancen
by Anthem and drum in the mighty thunder of the eternal surf, and the soft whispering Rustling
of leaves and palm crowns, and out there, far out on the beautiful beach, whither away barely
penetrated the thundering sound of the cannon, which the rise and
decline of the Sun announced, René had built his hut.

A large but not well yet spacious house, dense in the shade of fruit and Blüthenbäumen hineingeschmiegt,
served him with his small family, such as the venerable Mr. Osborne, of which it ought not be
separated like to stay, so it became the home, and even Sadie felt this good again and happy,
so at home so friendly, the little dear place - almost like a dear Atiu - Only that he lacked
the memories.

- Only that he lacked the memories - it is a small, insignificant word, memory, and it includes
however, once we really came to life, almost everything that the heart ever held dear and loving,
and the sounds of pounding it with a joyful, O how much yet, listens. What else gives our
homes those infinite charm that makes us not dwell in a foreign country and draws us back
with solid, hardly tearable gangs? - What else conjures us at a stroke all the love, never
forgotten, but probably as often and eagerly awaited Pictures back up, which gives life time
of light and color, our blood, the heat, our Breast gave the serenity? Hire one place these memories,
and let it be the poorest his meager hut in a wilderness, and any support we are still dear
to the rotten Building together. We know because every tree, every stone and every which even the
least important, on the narrow path leading out to the quiet, Linden
umlaubten cemetery on the garden gate, the apple tree next to the
door to the stone bench, or the babbling brook, or the mossy Bucket
of the well, even to the stars love the only way dear old friend of
the Hut stood, the ties of love, a blessed memory, and the older we
get the process The further our fate and the longer we are driven
away from the sanctuary, the dearer Place it maintains itself in our
hearts.

And without those memories? yes the world is beautiful, and everywhere founded the unstable man his
flock, God's infinite goodness everywhere covers the ground for him with food and drink, and
the sex drives and thrives - but it drives and thrives only just, and how in the stranger begins
to build his hut, as established in the stranger at it and - thinks back to earlier happier
times dearer places - the place where his cradle stood.

But Sadie and René were happy - arched over them, how to Atiu waving coconut palms their heads
down and shook the dew on the fragrant flowers of the oranges that
their Umwuchsen foot, before they are submitted from the Corallendurchzogenen
internal waters of the reefs, clear and pure as silver in the sister
island, and at night the young man rowed the canoe out, and before
him, then the happy mother was sitting with the child at heart, the
loving gaze meet his eyes in endless bliss, - it was the so happy,
so happy hours.

Oh that they have to disappear, only that everything on earth a span of time covers, and while
we the sun is happy that there already stored under the dark clouds veil horizons must the rising
slowly but surely higher. There is no unalloyed happiness in this world, it s can not exist,
because the consciousness already, how close is the change our lives, as often the only one
fiber all depends what delights us in this moment, takes a dim light even at the happy hour,
and that which strengthens us even in adversity, which trusting eyes, hoping turned toward
the light, dim and sad as we had also in the heart, and how the desperation gnaws at him and
wearing the certainty of some of the former Exchange such suffering, then that knocks also
as a reminder of the happiness of Thor, with gentle fingers, but still undaunted and continue.

Not with René, he was a child in happiness and took it all with so cheerful light heart, such
as toys, children are laughing and jumping with it and think that it ran not break d' can
not take care of d'rum. After a long time when he had to suffer and endure much, Everything
here seemed to him as the duly, such as fair pay for inventory, concern had he never knew, the
moment he was in life was driving, he followed the moment He was also, as in adversity and
how he only hoped little, always the fate ausersehn thinking and bold defiant courage it took
just pleasure to meet him, it to overcome, he also thought the happiness does not often out
how it should be once well when the death of perhaps here and there torn away the supports,
or not share that pain with cold stiff hands could intervene in his young happiness. He lived, loved
that it was enough.

Not as Sadie, on that quiet island had grown quiet, she hardly from a higher Goal in life known,
and the carefree joy carefree theilend sisters, she was never another Occurred to another case she
had never thought possible when, on the palm tree beach to bloom,
to flourish under its shadow once and in light soil, light, and hoping
a new, better life, contrary to dream.

Then came René - opened up with him a new world for them, with him they won something they never
imagined - a spiritual life, in addition to their Palm world, and all that which filled the
breast of her there with such bliss, found in which only one heart source and destination
- and if the one her heart then disappeared again - No, she thought
the idea of ​​never, and rise when he was in it, before they fled
themselves, and the feeling only really solid ground won in her, got
the first color and Shape, as its a different pain went through life
- the first serious bitter suffering of the young Chest.

The venerable Mr. Osborne, a missionary in the true sense of the word, the love of God fully live
in the heart was, and thousands have thus brought consolation was just where he may ask for respect
and recognition, with his faithful honest heart, cold dry ground, and if not open warfare,
much worse - secret malice arrow often far more deadly than lead
and steel meets.

Over and sent over to the island, where he barely won the heart of one tribe, and to exert
beneficial influence on them began to hurt and hate, angry and saddened, he finally became ill,
and before René both as Sadie on the painful loss of them threatened, could prepare yes before
even just the fear of such risk had risen in them, made a nervous shock his life and only a gentle
quick end.

The pain struck deep into her young, previously unalloyed happiness,
and Sadie had a particularly much, much lost it by infinity.

René also hurt, the loss of the brave old Man who endured a second father to him now, and yes
even really a lot with his account and tolerated.

Many months passed as well, before they both recover from the loss, the separation of he could
get used to, and even then wanted to feel the void not quite soft - they lacked a part of themselves,
and the all-relieving time it had reserved keep them fully to comfort them.

This death was also René has become the engine to any activity after a to look after the well,
especially now rely solely on themselves and the more lively Establishment of new adult needs to
be more vigorous spirit longed and urged. Such employment was his last but also a necessity if
he does not go under should be in the idle, the Islanders most congenial,
the educated Europeans but the Length of time life is not sufficient.

Shortly before Mr. Osborne's death was a part of the capital, which René had displayed in France,
arrived for him to Tahiti, and he decided now the same in commercial speculations spreading,
and also familiar with the sale and use of these islands known. He needed its not his position
to improve or preserve its existence, because little enough for his simple life here, but he did have
a drive, some of it made against a target led, and that it not only
not moved from his home From life, but even this had to give an even
greater appeal.

His small, friendly apartment was perhaps a half mile below Papetee, close to the The beach, surrounded
by tall and Wi-Mapebäumen, and the open view to the charming Imeo grant over. There, already
equipped with some European convenience, had He had built his nest, and pulled him even during the
day and then some the connection of his Business, partly the hustle and bustle of this vibrant
political time for Tahiti, to the city, give him the evening was yet always at home with rapid steps
into the arms of his trusted Woman made haste, and then nestled the dear sweet child, the mother
would be an almost still higher stimulus given, caressing his hand, he blessed well often, in the fullness
his good fortune, the ship that brought him to this hospitable coast,
and even more the decision set free and living it to have the ground
to enter, to which it him as a higher inner voice driven inexorably.

As it is often young people, whom fate and how often their salvation, in her first love, in its first
ambitious plans, already raised to the enjoyment cup from the lips of tears, and then suddenly
closed their accounts with the world, their believe claims on life and his happiness destroyed and
did not want to see that them the world is just now full and wide-open arms, he took everything, everything
in just satisfies the moment when he believed himself to have the edge of an abyss, and the
step was inevitable, for the inevitable, gave him had shattered send in depth.

And when he returned in the beginning, from one extreme to another, skipping, any risk torn, filled
with every request in a formal frenzy of joy and delight of newfound
rescue train which took him through flowery meadows now, as in a dream
was lost, is at last this feeling that made him also feel really lucky
to be only half and with the full consciousness of what he is here,
obtained in this wonderful wonderful world returned and infinite peace
and happiness in his heart - an ineffable peace which his wife happy
and made her breast last, roused by the other Protestant clergy Doubts
and fears allayed, and refuted, that the restless spirit of the young
Man so easily and completely to the quite new and unusual, and somewhat
closed these islands will add life.

How was the sphere of another, however, he found here, was also sometimes the Live a completely different
than in the quiet, secluded Atiu. Tahiti, and on it Papetee seemed to be the center of trade
and transport for the south of the equator lying island groups are to do, and just recently
had more American as the French Families settled here, the social relations of this small island
state To give a new, hitherto not before known, promised. René whose amiable Conduct him easily
won the hearts of those with whom he came into contact occurred soon after with one of the
Americans as both the French business relations, and found himself on most warmly introduced by
them. The women were particularly keen a social movement to open up this remote point, and receive,
and they heard little that married René was, as they were determined to see him and more to
tie themselves and their house.

René, who felt very well that he was with the increased population of the island when particularly
attracted more Europeans over, a more social life would not close completely can and might
be closed, had already started for some time Sadie prepare to and for the first time disturbed him
in this relaxed their dress to the climate such as the free Movement
of the body was so reasonable after all.

In the circles in which he himself but in a had to move more social life would be the same in any
event, if not actually a hindrance, but has become a bone of contention often. However, he was
afraid in the beginning at this point Sadie touching - it could hurt them if they believe they
would liked it less Sadie was a lot, now in the colorful fluttering cloth than before in the first
time love too sensible not see how they come with the husband in another sphere and would have
to cling to. The dear little woman shook it well at first his head and smiled, but the new clothes
you were excellent, and with their compatriots own sagacity she acquiesced so easily not only
in the dress, but also in the All new and strange, the same with itself included as if they
raised it from infancy would have been, not only would all have to dump what we by habit and custom from
our youth has become almost second nature, and with our inner self adherent is.

Disruptive intervention alone sometimes, though rarely, the church and will again be political
Conditions of the islands in the lives of the lucky one, which René
himself prefers completely withdrawn would have if he just left the
clergy in peace.

The Protestant Missionaries considered it their duty (a terrible word of such men), the young, educated
in the true faith, and unfortunately fallen into the hands of an
unbeliever young woman who constantly warn of the abyss on which they
stand, and all of the horrors to hold before they expected when they
follow the paths beaten by her husband. Also the child was indeed
the true faith can be obtained and so willingly, René, just Calm from
outside and peace in the house to have all the required ceremonies
added that the imperative for considered necessary the little innocent
citizens is a former world salvation was secured, he must nevertheless
have recently decided against a portion of these people in his House
started out like a pigeon and fly, and were on the way to twist the
poor woman's head, and make it melancholy and unhappy.

Of the clergy
was only one, with whom he befriended a certain extent, and that peculiar
As just one of the most active and most decisive of the whole society. 

"Unique," he repeated questioning, the word strongly emphasized, "and bring about the Kanakas
out such a noise that any private individual signal of a warship for the Tahitian flag have
taken? "

"The people welcomed the friend and protector of his faith," replied the priest, half averted
by the consul, which was actually the Erwiederung - it "knows now
free from any fear and anxiety, and fear has no enemies on.

"

protect "God from his friends," said Moerenhout dark.

"We go to Me-re-hu," said Tati, who, however, came to the curtained window was, and had pushed back
the curtain, as he pointed out, "there can see."

All turned to where the beach is a colorful train of men and girls, here and there mixed with
English sailors, niederwogte to move the train, but jumped a half-naked
guy, cheering and shouting the torn French flag carrying, which he
waved around the head and with wild gesticulations, which lacked not
Beifallsgetobe the crowd, one of its ordinary hymns, which had become
popular melodies of course, sang, and only to extemporirte his own
words.

"I almost think that people are looking for Mr Moerenhout," said the reverend brother Rowe nothing
less than a venerable smile, "the remnants of his empire he served."

"All the blood that follows the act be on you and your comrades," cried the consul with angry
flashing eyes, and quickly left the room.

Tati hesitated, he looked after the Queen over, but Pomare, held in shame and indignation, the view
from the ground attached, and did not look up to him as the chief sighed deeply, deeply on, and
left without paying tribute to the priests of even a glance, the
house slowly.

The Preacher, but folded his hands and eyes to the ceiling, he began rising, without the presence
Pomares to consider further, in a loud and fervent voice a prayer of thanks, to the effect that
God, the idols have now zerstöret with a strong hand, the enemy driven out of his to have denied,
and sent aid to his people in need, to set it free from danger and to free and happy in his faith.

Pomare
interrupted him with any syllable, and while the missionaries came in with the Eïnanas quietly and
silently zuschoben the door and through it disappeared, the noisy
to look outside to train, to them was more interesting than the prayer
of the dark man Pomare was standing still and motionless, only her
eyes stood out at last, slowly and timidly to the Defiant face of
fanatical priest who feigned humility here against God, whose own
Commandments of love and peace, he just kicked.

"Who gave the order to break down the foreign flag," she finally said
in a low, against internal Movement trembling voice, as the silent
prayer and the looks just like in a trance stick to the ceiling was.

"The Lord," answered the clergyman with trustfully voice, without looking to the questioner niederzusenken
- "Your enemies are thrown, Pomare, for the Lord is with thee!"

Pomare bit her lips, she struggled with them against the priest to act as the Queen, to let
the stranger feel that he spoke with the Princess of this country in their rooms He pushed himself
and the kingdom he is not subject to the Bible, no himself and his
comrades had, but the old fear of the supernatural, as its representative
to the dark Tourist saw was also even now too strong, and she said,
turning away with a trembling, deeply agitated voice:

'God is, but
I'm afraid you have not done well.

My nation is divided, my kingdom threatened, and what am I myself already, if only to foreign
warships for supremacy argue that island? - No, no, "she said quickly, as the minister has the hand
new speech, "I do not speak again all you have so often heard complaints and threats - I am
not saying the verses of thy book which thou heart to the last letter can, but I understand you do
not and my heart is now quite full and heavy - I'm afraid me today is a great suffering to happen,
and you'd have to reconcile myself with Tati, make it would have been better for Tahiti. Now go out
there I see your brothers - I think they do to me, but I will not speak now, the time must
decide if your nasty have done or not, but I am very sad to mind. - I go right now, tell me,
"she cried decisively, as the clergyman still would not let reject, and her Foot angrily stomped
the ground - the blood of the Pomare gained the upper hand.

"That the Lord may enlighten you," said the pious man, "may give you
his peace and His gentleness and you can see what he did to you in
His love and glory -.

Amen "And with folded hands and bowed head forward, he slowly left the room. Pomare but closed
the door, her forehead rested on her arm, and wept bitterly.

* * * * *

       

Outside, however, a wilder game had taken place, as a matter Moerenhout conjectured, from the
missionaries was of the venerable brother with Smith after the stretching of Papetee Headland gone
there to overlook the movements of foreign warships faster and more clearly to. With a glass of armed
because he realized soon that the ship suddenly hove to again, and free, despite the remaining
high sea states, and only once by the rocks, again set sail on sail not to give up an inch more
than it was forced. Anyway, it seemed to Papetee determines the zuhielt it again, and beside
the still waving flag now increased to several signals, one of which, however, the Tahitian
Flag looked like, could be the distance here, but definitely just barely.

The missionaries are not from each of their navigational skills have been due to famous, such
as Do they also to reaching the Cape of Good Hope, the Islands, the day did not count the 180sten
them sailing on the degree of Greenwich to the east, won, and the islanders the Saturday for
the Sabbath brought, which later became a hopeless confusion. Whether Smith's brother now also
believed to recognize the Tahitian flag really, is whether his other intentions it had the Islanders
a surrounding him, as he well imagine was able to impart good news, short of his first was the
rumor that the English The warship back to hold the port, show the Tahitian colors, and that was
enough to bring, of course, the people cheering the good news that the ships of the Beretanier
them would stand against the arrogance of the now broken Wi-Wis - as she once again defiantly and
were called, laughing.

From mouth to mouth was the Maehr, and as is such with all the rumors, soon became exaggerated
into the impossible. No longer only their flag, to protect their religion against the Encroachments
of the Papists, no revenge, it should also earlier wrongs. The Wi-Wis had now the money issue again
that they extorted, and Pomare received from the Beretanis, as compensation, the French war ship, the
Jeanne d'Arc ~ ~ given that just anchored in the harbor was. As children laughed and talked
to each other by the islanders, dreamed their favorite images up, during the day and castles built as
bright and colorful in the air, that they the future and the past and forgot about it, only
ever used the moment to To use the negotiated one by one.

While a portion of an old Tahitian anthem began after the bars of a much older English Song "old
hundred ~ ~" to sing, jumped another group, in their own heart's delight are not heeding the
danger surprised by the missionaries while, to their national dance to, and the sound of the drum
mixed with the religious song of singing in strange, peculiar manner.

But different and wild, the Assembly designed at the lower part of Papetee, about two hundred Step away
from there, where the French flag in front of the house of the Consul Moerenhout, between a small
group of high-born coconut palms and a thicket of dark green Brodfruchtbäume auswehte to the individual
missionaries had collected among them Dennis and Brower, and spoke at the open space in loud
cheers from their prayer at the victory to the Bible the papacy. Many of the most respected
chiefs were in their vicinity, including Aonui Teraitane and how the still half-wild and defiant
Fanu, and if individuals like too in their jubilation with matches, it ate other again at the
heart of that same foreign ships in should give them the balance, and not without reason they
saw the priest as the straight , it's contrived to foreign influence had their private affairs
to settle, its laws to determine, and in a word, to govern their country.

»On New's," cried the venerable brother Dennis in his burning zeal for the welfare of his Church,
"has extended anew on the Lord of hosts his hand over the heads the faithful, and he is the
second time in these mountains erected idols to the ground Hurl as he has for the first time can
feel his power and omnipotence. Still blowing over there, the three-colored flag of the Papists,
nor the enemy colors fluttering in the sharp Breeze, but as the stormy western short hours in the
quiet prevailing soft Passat will and must, so also that ship is there, the white sails of our
hospitable coast now entgegenblähen, cleanse our country from the insults, to obey a power other
than the Bible to be with than some other power, as the Lamb of God and his infinite mercy. "

"If
the breath for that flag you grieves so terribly," cried Fanu, which
is now up came close to ascend the prayer was, and with folded arms
and fixed to each other clenched teeth, the gesticulations of the
speaker's religious enthusiasm had been watching, "an the weather,
why do not they understood and throw her to the ground?

"

"It is our duty," cried there, stepping in between, all of the missionaries devoted Aonui - "was
only a duty of gratitude to the us the speech of the worthy man warns
England not through the pangs of that proud flag insulted longer be
seen.

"

"England?" Cried Fanu loud and defiant, angry with the chief, considering wonder.

Yes England, "but reiterated that, indifferent to the anger of his fellow countryman," England,
that made us human, which tore our souls eternal torment, and sent us the Bible, the Holy Scriptures,
the Book of God, friends, dictated the word from His own mouth. We All have thus obtained what
we need, and in ourselves is withdrawn, the enemy Power to kill our bodies but our souls are immortal,
and lie outside their area. Therefore, but already it would be bad, it would be ungrateful of us
to the land that we so rich so gloriously gifted to see insults on our land, in front of our
door, and trusting in Jehovah's protection, I am ready, the proud flag of the idolatry of
Baal blowing the dust to throw. "

"Stop Aonui," he remembered here, moving his arm, which already follow the words of the act would
let the thoughtful Teraitane in the speech, "it would be premature and - acted imprudently. I protect
his friend when he is absent and can not protect themselves, why now? - England has its representatives
here - its own flag and two large ships, and if it feels insulted, it may even bow down to
foreign flag. "

And his own planting of this, right? "Cried quickly Fanu.

"The English flag is still always a flag of love and peace have been"
interrupted here kind enough to appease the dispute between the islanders,
the quieter missionary Brower in the speech.

"But this is Tahitian land," was angry Fanu, "what would the queen of Beretanis Say if we wanted
to get across their land, and planting Pomares flag on their Walls?
- She would say: what the strangers do here in my country? sends them
continued for I myself have a flag.

"

"England has given us the Bible," but said Potowai, another chief,
who joined them, "And if I will ever recognize a country other than
standing over us, can and should the be accessible only to England.

"

"But, brothers, brothers," cried Dennis with pious enthusiasm, "where we get lost? - And believe
you that we, your teachers, do something different to as your health? - Is It is because here
is under the English flag than to make you, or your own to save from shame and servitude? -
We want you, then submit to England, and not rather make you free, in spirit and in truth, and
suffer no compulsion, either in Your soul, your body is still on, than the one imposed upon
you God's love itself, "for My yoke is easy, "says the Lord. But with the introduction of foreign
worshipers of Baal, with its smoke pots and their idolatry, could not hold here in the islands,
between the pious people who identified their God first, is that anti-flag erect, and only continues
with its removal, we can hope your teacher, again depending Your mind all those hostile to keep
pushing away, which is now huge in so Force claims.

"

"Now they throw themselves down," growled defiantly Fanu -? "Why do we need to"

! »The Office of the servant of God is not said as brother Brower quickly -" we have always prevented
us in the political situation of this kingdom to interfere, and will now not - "

"That's a lie proud priest," he cried out as contrary to the chief,
with glowing eyes the traveling missionary measuring up defiantly,
while his friends on one that the priest attached natives on the other
hand were intervening to keep the peace among the two disputants.

The missionary was offended at first, and perhaps irritated with something to talk , Dennis reciprocate
but grabbed his arm and whispered softly to a few words, and even
probably the most violent words perceiving impropriety, he said a
moment later with a mild and quiet Votes:

"Lord, forgive him, because
he does not know what he does!"

It is this calm but irritated the old gray-haired chief, and Aonui
Potowai and that made him appease searched, throwing away, he shouted
loudly and defiantly,

"Role only your eyes, and throw you in the
dust before thy God, make the people believe it that you are enlightened
by the spirit, and your mouth is an oracle of his will - play your
game as you pleased, but did not want to tame men with false illusions.

Your God has thundered and lightning, as did our gods before him, but he hurled his thunderbolts
between ~ ~ the feis in the mountains, and you call his enemies, remained untouched - are we our
Blood effort, where he needs his own weapons only in jest? - If we the hatchet take up that
should be buried forever, at least among you, were your whole religion not a lie, it happens to our
country, not for your faith and God's wrath, I really like about which neither the flag nor Beretanis
see the blow Feranis! But you "- is Turning now to his countrymen, some of whom in silent horror,
and with uplifted Hands were, he was angry loud - "call me if you need me, not only to sing and Praying,
but when it comes to sweep the country again in, of all that alien and hostile , and Fanu is
your man, but here he is no use, "and by saying the Tapamantel! drawing closer around her,
and he quickly left the party angry step.

"A wild spirit, an irrepressible spirit, enlighten the Lord, and for him the light of His may pour
out grace very soon, "said Brower with a pious look up," I will rather warm and fervently pray
for him. "

"That thine eye offend thee, pluck it out," but Dennis was angry with his left arm, the Bible,
he held it, drawing strength in itself, laid down their rights to
where the angry Indians was just gone, and those left behind were
still nachzuschauen him, "and how the barren fig tree must be lifted
from the ground and thrown into the fire, so will the members this
church will be addressed, in which rebel and dry on the trunk.

"

"And believe you, brothers, that we think others just like Fanu?" Aonui screamed in wild Enthusiasm
- "You think that we could not die for the faith, for Jesus Christ died before us? - That flag flying
over us as hostile to, hostile to the Bible, which we recognize as
God's word, and to us is not the Beretanis, to the , We shall remove
the disturbing here in his way.

Who is not with me is against me! Christ says - Aonui fear no opponent, so long as he fights for
the Lord. So who the Bible loves, follow me, "and the wildly hyped last words he broke through the
crowd, willingly gave him the room, and for the most part followed him, and hurried briskly
the house of the French consul to, in his garden, where an upright pole the tri-color flag
and running in the sharp breeze fluttered and beat.

The consul was not in the house, but two men had a short time before the place of another Page enter
to visit Mr. Moerenhout - René Delavigne and the chief Paofai, and were yet at the locked door near
the flag stick, as they herantosenden the noise of the Heard mass.
 

# Dead mother's hotel. #

Hidden deep in the Guiaven, and about four or five hundred yards from the furthest Papetee away from
houses, was one of the usual long-oval bamboo huts lower this Islands, covered with pandanus leaves,
and other household furniture little more than a couple of iron Boilers and a dozen or more low-,
half hollowed-out footrest, the natives serve as the seat of the
days, and overnight a pillow.

The walls were way, rather than treat the draft-free area as in the ordinary Indian Worldwide,
with thin straw mats draped everywhere, and the heat could not because of the be done well, for
just this place would have taken a fresh draft rather where Guiavendickicht the wall almost
like a narrow, enclosed is hewn farm and domestic space; But the owner of this place was more
concerned and disturbed by curious uncalled eyes not bothered to
be as fresh air - although they probably their blessing also understood
to appreciate.

The walls, if one may call the factory gate overhung with raffia so ever, were also more bothered
by anything which would have such a special richness of Inwohner View can, on one side only
hung a few old calico spreads, worn and blackened through the years both as perhaps the smoke
from the hut, in addition to these, however, and under Cocosnußschalen ground out a long line,
furnished the place of drinking cups, paraded an old, once before in white, but now in any such
impossible form pressed into felt hat, which in better days, maybe even the head of a pomadisirten
Dandy in jolly old England adorned, was now doomed, however, his
days in Cocosnußölqualm and Guiavenholzrauch to dream away in a Tahitian
hut.

Other three looked so bare walls, so great was wild and all sorts of dishes and Falls into the
corners. Calabashes, the chests too common in these islands the inhabitants, Suitcases, hat boxes,
work baskets, pantries, bathrooms, and God knows what else were used, were present in mass, and now
and then another on the layered, it refused to between a couple of brooms, a harpoon and a rudder,
an old rusty musket fire with lock, and above, but so hidden behind the mats that only certain
parts of the hut out could be seen was a narrow little Bret fixed
with a few books, and lay on top of a corpulent worn Bible.

Interestingly, however, proved to be more varied and in any case the current residents as The inhabitants
of this remote place, which many of the Indians even in superstitious fear avoided because
it "Dead Mother," as the Eigenthümerin usually by the sailors just simply called, was believed in
the possession of supernatural powers, and however justified their
standing such a supposition, if ever applied to any human being, perfect.

"Mother

Dead," was a character, and no one entered her sanctuary for the first time without to feel
a certain awe and reverence that even the crudest crept over - but her venerable appearance
was certainly not the guilt.

Mother was dead by the way - before I the reader with their outward man, the suit, known to do
- in Europe and indeed in the realm of her Britannic Majesty, before long, Born many years, but
no one could distinguish in their dialect, whether in the preferred England itself, the ~ 'bonnie'
~ Scotland or the "green island" as Ireland of his poetic Children is called. She mixed a mess
of things and their language had engaged, with the long stay on the islands, almost as many words
from these assumed that anyone who does not Tahitian or Polynesian languages, one of the least
understood, the key to all 'the strange expressions to have hardly been able to sense or reason
would be in her speech to bring. The Indians and foreigners were still most easily over it, the first
thought they were speaking English, the other thought it Indian.

In her youth, now in their country, wanted to say how the wicked world, convicts to Sydney
they had escaped from there on a whale catcher English, or rather
of the Captain of the same, the might have ensnared her charms (for
people out there in the years lake driving around have been kidnapped
not always choosy). When Mr. Rowe the French Consul
saw coming towards him, he stopped and said a few levels higher than this, with infinite gentleness
and kindness to him, looking down:

"And what will our very honorable friend in such excitement to us?"

"Mr. Rowe, "replied the consul, but without sound or comment on the issue to address, and "I
want a few - the steps quickly, even on the clergy over, climbing up Words with you and the
other gentlemen to speak, but immediately say "- he sat quickly and eagerly added, when he saw how the
clerics still undecided hesitated. "It is not now the private interests of a Protestant or Catholic priest,"
He drove away and violently irritated, "it is the interests, the interests of that country,
whose decision Now, even - by what right should not be discussed here - taken in hand. You leave
everything alone, it is now even lead to a peaceful end, or even
a Provoke war, which would have the saddest most terrible consequences.

"

The missionaries were the first standing and then turned to the excited
and irritable man order, but remained high on the verandah, where
the other soon to Mr. Rowe and the French Consul gathered and the
former said kindly:

"You seem to err in the person, my dear sir,
we all are men of peace, which is not really occur to wantonly as
you think, provoke a war.

Attacks the people to arms, shaking off an unbearable'll yoke, or even avoid only the risk of
getting bent his neck beneath what we can single and unarmed men for it or against it do? yes we should
hold back the people, even if we could, where we see it threatened on one side of a religion
that our would result in weak opinion, to its present and future destruction, while it in their hands,
they at least prepare some ancient healing. "

The consul and strode angrily up and down on the verandah, but answered not a word - He felt
that, for the first syllable he spoke aloud, had the gall to run
and was now in this, perhaps for later times the most important moment
of all can avoid what he would later perhaps as precipitation or heat
accused be.

"And you really refuse," he said at last after a long pause, and in fact only when the Reverend
Mr. Rowe was once again face the Verandah to leave - "the blind, with all European conditions
unknown people from a hasty step, how to restrain the tearing down
of the French flag? - You do not consider that the same sad scenes
of the French frigate in months again, maybe they're and you can even
bring the plight of the world?

"

The Reverend Mr. Rowe threw her head proudly, and said very deliberately, with perhaps loud
voice:

"Neither your persuasion, Mr. Consul, nor your threats can move to
a step we consider to be incompatible with our office.

Not politics, but religion this country brought us to this coast, and France had perhaps even
the intention Protestantism, since he was not through the teachings
of its priests managed with fire and Exterminate sword, but the time
has thankfully passed.

The English Consul, as You know already gone a long time ago to the UK, where the protection
of our Confession, to ensure the preservation of our hard earned and deserved rights, and
you see there out to sea in that light blinking sail the response of our nation. ~ Monsieur
Du Petit Thouars ~ will have to find another sphere for his heroic deeds, for not only with
more defenseless Indians and their peaceful teachers and princes, he has by now to do here.
"

Moerenhout bit his lips, paused a moment, as something about thinking, standing, and would then,
without another word, the stairs down to rise again, than the venerable Mr. Nelson took his arm
and said kindly:

"Go not, Consul Moerenhout, a good work must not be abandoned so easily, and I think the intention
for where you came from. "

"Mr. Nelson speaks as if this so-called "good work in our hands would be," said Mr. Rowe appealed.

"And
that's true," cried the old man in a noble ardor glowing, and stretching
out his hand against the raging crowd below.

"That would be sinful to want it said of us that we Does not have to lead the people to goodness
and to keep within the bounds of moderation; as well as in the now
besides irritated mood, a reckless unfortunate Step to push against.

We as the teachers of the people decide whether or not English whether French flag had the right
to blow here - our goal is to natives to make Christians, not English or French, and their
chiefs, from our Consuls not supported by our pulpits, then it is up to the independence to
protect their country. "

"It gives conditions," interrupted his brother here in Rowe's words, of the rising wrath not
could bemeistern longer, "for which such hesitation in the good cause that the natives their
evil fate and the horrors of the papacy would leave, could be called treason. "

"We have accused the foreign priests," Nelson said quietly, "she scolded us and have abused our
religion, we make it better for us from horrors of papacy ? Talk I regret making the entry of that
alien doctrine, which our parishioners astray, and must bring with
them doubt, but I do not want to fight with the sword, would not see
the sword cut in our own midst.

"

"That brother Nelson, the new doctrine would not see combat with the sword, but he has already
proven, "said Mr. Rowe.

"The thing I did, I stand justified before my God," Nelson replied, without a sign of bitterness,
"the human sentence I must submit myself."

"Woe to Israel," sighed as the venerable Mr. Brower and shook his head mournfully, "That is the
cold glow, the foreign heart will warm up, and not even able, is one's own bright and blazing
fire to ignite. Woe to the defaulter, the hesitation there, and the Hours count to the day,
and do not seem so long, it is still night, woe to the timid the Day of Judgement, and how God's thunder
shakes the earth still admonishing vests, he will them to be a Zornesruf in the ears! "

Mr. Moerenhout of the conversation, or rather, the dispute between the clergy with little to taming
Impatience heard so far, and had to forcibly restrain his indignation not to make air, yet
still hoped a more rational deliberation but space to see win, after the last words of the
fanatical priest had any such belief disappearances, and only to make one last attempt, he said
with forced calm, but which one could probably say the Violent:

"And because you refuse to get my masters, the peace with France maintained? - Refuse the people
of the danger, so imagine the mad act of these "?

"Refuse, Mr. Consul," Rowe indignantly interrupted him, "we have nothing
with the policies of this to do the country - with every such request
I must tell the Queen herself.

"

Moerenhout wanted to reciprocate anything - he opened his mouth and took a step to to the missionary,
who irritated the eyes of the man's suspicious but still courageously opposed; but then, how
better of recollecting, he turned sharply round on his heel, a moment, the front expanding space
with his eyes stopped on flying, waving for a job over to where Tati and Utami stood with them
now to have come Paofai, and walked, while he joined the three chiefs,
quickly and violently with them gesticulirend, up on the beach.

FOOTNOTES:

[D] The British and Americans call all types of vehicles and how the female sailor claims from a not
exactly flattering reason for the fair sex: because the rigging,
sails, etc. cost more than all the rest.

[E] Gumbo's, the nickname of the French in Louisiana, in accordance with a favorite dish prepared same.

5th
chapter

# The Queen Pomare.

#

The storm had abated, but the west the wave foam hurled against the
Leeufer [F] the island, and the heavy palm tops, which the palace
Aimatas, the fourth of the Pomare, surrounded swayed to and fro, and
shook the heavy drop from the fruit decorated Crown.

The Palace of Pomare - a magic otherwise lay in the sanctuary, which is a happy good-natured
and therefore also decorated gullible people with all that his mind only Large and was able
to invent sublime.

What did it matter if only bamboo rods supported the light roof of pandanus leaves, only finely woven Mats
and woven itself Tapa the inner space qualified and veiled - what did it matter whether the
Chiefs of simple calebash their Brodfruchtpoe consumed and the juice of the cocoa-nut to drinking,
they were protected by Oro princes, and the reason already holy, which you Foot entered.

And now? - The traffic with the Europeans had the old simple customs of the islanders displaced
- the missionaries, rather than their simple life adapt drew greed this otherwise unassuming
modest nature of the strange things they brought in mass; the protection of the king himself was
through gifts - great stuff that just looked colorful bargain and
nothing more was used as the place to make uncomfortable, scary, it
was on the - Keep looking, and how the Prince indulged more the stranger,
whose peculiar Gifts they won as they descended from their height
and their gods himself last to glass beads and other colorful things
bartered to recognize a different God, the they took those dark black
men, then there was the royal power, though the outward pomp remained,
indeed, for the moment, as the last flicker of a lamp, may have been
further enhanced and strengthened in the short term.

What the Royal Majesty on the Sandwich Islands, where missionaries first Republican God's word
brought over, raised, namely, that the members of the royal family, especially the women [G]
of the Christian religion adhered, and with that power, the people, then brought at last, at
least outwardly, to submit to the new cult, which had to the Society Islands, where the priests
of a monarchy, first with a cross and the Bible landed, the opposite effect in spite of the rigid
which the Pomares, in their hearts at least, each opposed the Christian religion, and in later
years, and actually broken only by illness and hope with the help of the whites the reins his government's
solid back to take in hand, the second to the Christian Pomare Religion came about, but otherwise
his manners, and most likely inside his old faith, fairly maintained.

The prince, which one then considered only supernatural beings were human, the gods, which until
then had ruled the destinies of peoples and held his hand over land and See, were to pieces Cocosholz,
- the belief that fear, even the worst of all, the Love of the people
was a delusion, was a beautiful dream, and that just the people then
to extremes skipped be imagined.

The simple bamboo house, which the Tahitians other than the ruler established his kings with timid awe,
but looked up with love was gone, and instead stood on its a European building with shingles,
with verandah and staircase, with doors and glass windows there, the dense and impenetrable walls
of the cool sea breeze, the roof of strange and unnatural into staring at the slender palm trees
- the interior of this wild and colorful and tasteless with great decorated cluttered gifts of various
ships and countries or more displaced, with porcelain and glass, bronze and brass, silver-plated
chandeliers, gilded Jewelry, with Services and harnesses, so tasteless
as ordered or confused rather put out of their way.

The natural majesty of it all was gone and not an artificial forced now to impress longer able even
in the eyes of the natives. Respect, therefore, the he paid to the simple bamboo and a simple
tapa, and himself on the pandanus mat covered by the foot touched, he refused the precious
carpet and all those thousands and thousand "treasures," which he stared in amazement, where
it's cold, not infrequently with a smile on his lips, passed. He knew the source from which it
flowed, Pomare no longer went hand in hand with Oro and before the new god, and should have
the foreign teachers often and often said, yes, all men were equal - the bit of this state
had the strangers welcome to take as gifts solid foot on the islands,
it was not among them, before whom to have respect.

And ruthless as the people lost in the hand of the majesty of ermine,
and after the Krone already stretched out his fist, which moved Aimatas
forehead, so had the storm raging in his cooled his courage and desire
to enter the sacred place and used in the sanctuary.

Where a number of dense beautiful palm trees on more open body growing, formerly the bamboo house Queen
overshadowed, and the other at the same time could provide shelter and protection against
the great wind spirits, the rest at times on the mountain, and had most of these stately Trees
to give the larger building space, must be chipped away and the individual, left behind, were no
longer able to withstand the wild west when he mad Ansprung took against them, the waving blades
took their crown and the tops bent down sharply and powerful, almost to the floor. Hei as often
as they surged back, with rage and indignation, the raging storm straight 'in the teeth, and waving,
shaking his crown in spite of angry; in vain - again and again approached the wind whistled
bride, took the mighty trees and pressed them in their great game to the earth until the glorious
and bent with heavy Fall to the ground, and destroying much into banana and Brodfruchtgarten.
And Then, like a naughty child who broke his toy and that case yes, the penalty fears that the
storm raged and raged meaning of the mighty forest tree tops that its noise and thunder penetrated
deep into the mountain canyon and slope, but the bottom was bruised the palm and dead, the
rigid base, which is split bare and pointing accusingly at the sky, and the Tops itself a sad
image shattered, kingly power - so much talking here on the threshold
of Pomare.

And as the storm was silent, heaved and pushed the people out there in wild unstoppable Swarm,
for the first time a feeling of power that made him so far, for the first time again asked of them to
act independently, which until now with anxious care her every move
monitored and held against the Bible threatening any freer, more power-conscious
Word.

The people spoke, and the palace was deserted, the doors were open, or struck by train now and
again, fluttering in the interior fitted European curtains and drapes, and blew messy, and the
~ ~ Eïnanas Pomares, officiating the maid of honor of the Princess himself had been in fear and
curiosity, partly pushed out to the beach with the strange to see the ship and the excited
people, and partly they stood with fluttering hair and clothes scattered
on the Verandah, their duties no longer heeding their hopes and Communicate
concerns.

Pomare was standing in her room alone and the Queen, leaning against a window, the left Hand on an open
Bible, which lay beside her on a small table, his forehead thoughtfully in the right hand resting
motionless and looked in deep brooding about the addition zerschüttelten Tree tops, the branches
that have not yet found her way back from the little vorübergebrausten
Storm, and how anxious the wide green arms twined together, a still
suspicious afraid to face new onslaught.

It was a slim elegant figure, not just beautiful but salutary features, and particularly lively
fiery eye, the eyebrows are only now, in thought and ill-humor, perhaps, fixed and contracted
harder than it otherwise with the cut and kind Lips tolerated. She went dressed in national
costume, except that more precious fabrics' Form enclosed - the ~ was ~ pareu of fine yellow and
red striped and small Silver Flower traversed tissue, and the top, after the acquaintance with the Europeans
adopted across the front and open to the waist skirt that only the wrist by two Perlmutterknöpfe
was held together, was of heavy pale red silk, round the waist by a golden enamelled clasp together.
The hair she wore in natural curls, but by, perhaps a little flirtatious alluding to the crown,
a narrow gold ring was drawn admirably against the pitch-black wealth of hair parting, which
played on her forehead. On the fingers of two flashed a bit strong, golden rings, the dearest to
the natives at all and most honorable jewelry, but her feet were
bare.

Many minutes they remained in the position described, rigid and motionless,
and only sometimes It was as if they also listen impatiently for the
dull even to her herüberwogenden Noise, however, the fingers of your
left hand leafed unconscious in the holy book.

"They're coming, Pomare, they come," cried one of the girls suddenly, his head only just Door sticking
and then come back just as quickly disappearing.

"~ Aramai ~ ~ ~ Eina!" Cried the Queen, angrily turning around to the door, now in the, a little
embarrassed, the young beautiful girl appeared again and stopped,
so here - is " now become the custom here with me, that you walk around
outside your cave, and just to I burst in and call me your message
to the roof, as if I were blown over from the islands to windward?
- Who is coming?

~ ~ Waihine and where are your companions? "

"Tati, the chief, Pomare, with the white Ferani evil," the girl said
something scared - "And many many others Tanatas."

"And the Eïnanas?"

"Stand outside and look out."

"What will Tati of me?" The queen asked, dark, talking more to himself than to the girl approached.

"Evil
has been with Ferani Mitonares," the girl said as quietly and quickly - "has quarreled with Mitonares
and is now angry and nasty to Pomare. "

A contemptuous smile played
about his lips Pomares that feared the Eïnana the Ferani, but the
message itself but she worried. The French Consul never wrong with
the Protestant Clergy, which he, as he well knew, hated and loathed
- he was there to do, if not that something about him made against
his nation, and why they did None of this yet? 

The two young people seemed to have forgotten all about him, in, in fact, one blissful feeling
of rediscovery, after such a long, long time, they would not have the Captain's voice brought
back to itself and the consciousness of the place where they There were.

"Hello, laughing," this, "it seems to me I might be saving the Introduction, because the men
are certainly closer to each other known, could I suppose. "

"That, in fact," said Bertrand, who is also the first ever collected by the two again as he took
the friend's hand and held firmly in his - hope 'not' I could, here on the foreign shore such
an old dear young fellow, yes playmates from the boys to take time,
and the surprise is all the greater, the greater the joy.

"

"~ ~ Eh bien, Bertrand, they also maintain your friend a little,"
said the captain, "But do not forget at 11 clock - you will be when
he first message about until be trapped there? should "

"I expect the leader of the patrol itself here as soon as he returns."

"So much the better - but over there I see a few women enter, which I good evening must say - I
will ask after me the details of this joyous reunion communicate
" - And with a light and friendly bow, he left the young people who
are now Arm in arm, barely aware of their surroundings, were in one
of the windows, where only the first happy feeling of reunion to borrow
words. Hei as the storm bird whistles as sharp and shrill when
it moves over the stormy sea, and his long elastic wing tips to the smooth wave presses, of which
the hurricane has robbed the foaming crest and as beads has also spread far across the sea,
such as hot as the breakers crash and rages, and rears up and stretched and reached over with
the white arms of the coral dam, and yet and is reflected again and again built by the mighty
fortress, the millennia. And the storm that looks powerless to break his power at this dam,
and its waves, the He has shaken himself, can not get over as much as he lifts and also is
pressing and shoulder braces against the tremendous throws, finally, even with the beard fluttering
on the green land, and the palm trees collectively in a great game and turn it rocks, as he
the game otherwise have driven to stalk or flower, in the wide and tightly stretched bow down,
down to their crowns touch the foliage which it is based, and inhibits and with wild zealous rustling
the ramifications arms tightly stretched tightly and holds each other and helps fight the wild
impetuous enemy.

Vast and terrible is a storm at sea, where he churns the waves and digging, and the major mountain
masses such as chasing and playing in front of them terrible speed, but freely and without
hindrance, he races out there, no borders and it inhibits the self-waver The ship he meets
on his path, he throws around, dip it and throws it up, tear fragmented and what he can take
it and just keep going and - chase over, tired of the dishonorable Game. But different and horrible
horrible it is there where the mountainous coast of the impact inhibits, and the madman in
the end offers strong defiance.

Not only the new Grimm omit the furious because of the rigid wall persistent, which he adamantly
opposes to avenge ancient wrongs and no, centuries ago, and for many a terrible bunch, in which he
again and again in vain in the canyons grinding and crushing, and the foundations of his enemy
sought to undermine. out by the lake He approached the waves to the joint fight, and he throws
himself against the wild and mad Breastwork of trees and bushes, which puts him against tough
and undaunted, and what it helps him that he understood the rigid persistent strains and breaks,
and the heavy crowns to the ground blares, or ram's need to rush to others - the elastic bending
palm and submit to superior force, but follows the enemy in the foot with every inch of course,
and his feather head shakes angrily in his face. Wild howls and roars at them there, the great
raging hurricane, blows up high into the air and pulls it up and rumbles's it, and again and again's
pattering against dump and slope, again and again it breaks and breaks and smashes and moans, a
victim seeking in unspeakable wrath until the force's new exhausted as, for centuries, and
now yielding to the storm, its fury with new hope must appease for the next dance to see, nevertheless
always deceived anew. Grumbling and boiling and fermenting inside he retires then, far beyond
the lake; the distant roars and roars it yet, how hard-breathing from the bottom up - blue the
Black Sea, some fall in waves is itself collapsing and white wide Areas, formal valleys forming
of milky foam that dissolves hissing, new swelling used to wave to the shell with which they
decorate themselves and dance and it throws off, the sister to. Oh, how that goes down there and
hollow roars and mutters - but now attracts Sturmmöve with fold up wings, no longer motionless
in circles, over the still water in the wild indignation does not even reflect the beam like
the primary crushers sun, and filamentary mats galena on his face uncovered.

In the country however, the natural enemy of the hurricane, which
stretches out his fist as rigid, like the tide at any time willing
to offer him help, and raging with him and rushes, the unfolded victorious
sun again his banner, while the rumbling sea or against the reefs
beats, and every drop is thrown down to the Pearl, the flashing and
rejoicing in the light sparkles.

Still angry, but yet again the warm rays on her cheeks shaking feeling, the trees, their leaves
rustling and rustling and, leaf and twig back to the old form get out of it to the boisterous
troublemaker torn out, and the warm scent of the the valleys will increase the fog, the mountain
is like silver threads through the crown weaves, and the sinking orb tags yet gives his most glorious
colors of enamel.

It was at the time of such storms, which are particularly evident in the fall and spring under
this Width, and the storm still raged in all its terrible power over the water, and seemed the
reefs into it to try to push against the country, such a mountain-high
waves, he thürmte, and threw it in from the west, the trade flow straight
into the teeth.

Only the rising tide Rain had subsided and the wind blew just purely the firmament of recalcitrant
Clouds and cloud, which again and again, but now powerless and too late, as the new battle induced
wanted.

In the main street of Papetee, on the wide beach of the first houses and garden series separated
from the sea, and the fun-loving Tahitien especially in the evening used to the assembly point
was stayed, are now single and looking out to sea, which was soon
followed by others; the doors of the nearest houses were opened, the
proprietors were in it with Telescope and waved to them and pressed
soon the people in a mighty band, soon the glasses, then that Looking
at open sea, and listening to the word of the ends out for like an
oracle.

The subject matter but at the this is was a ship - a large ship of the Point Venus already half an
hour or so and still in full storm, the queen announced been, where it was trying way out in
sight, and resolve to come from the islands, The wind was too strong to permit been such a
maneuver.

The frigate - because that that strange sail was a large warship was defeated and certainly
no doubt - had fall from the wind, and now came under close gereeftem foretop and Vorstengenstagsegel
the tip around in any case determined by Papetee to enter, but now, with the vast Sea and the
narrow entrance through the foaming reefs was not possible, and only tries Now, to make as
little progress as possible to once free of the next reefs again aufzubrassen soothing the water
and waiting to cross against the wind.

It was a frigate, but from which country? This question has now all in anxious Voltage, and like
most of the natives now, after their previous demonstration the appearance of them all too well-known
Du Petit Thouars ~ ~ feared his vehicle, so afraid they were too
early to give the joyful hope that there is still an English could
be war ship to confirm their desired independence.

Opinions about the appearance of the vessel were divided by while the individual is Europeans after
the construction of the masts, because of the sailing was not even recognizable to a French held,
others claimed to recognize the American cut it, and only a small
portion insisted on his saying Britain was not to be mistaken and
the English Flag would show up as soon enactment of the frigate the
entrance.

Even just in Papetee present, and just today appointed to a confidential meeting Missionaries
were on the verandah of the gathered in Papetee based brother Dennis, and looked a little anxiously
against the development of the flag, especially on had to exert a
decisive influence their effectiveness.

Even before the storm began its session, and during the hurricane howling at the post the house
shook, the palm trees such as willow bent down, and the ripe fruit
from the Tore trees to spread the floor with orange and bread-fruit,
the juicy stems of banana Reports says fragrant flowers and carried
out far and high into the mountains, lay the black-clad Men in the
long airy building on his knees, and mixed their hymns and sing with
the roar of the hurricane, a hymn to the Lord of strength and mercy.

They were the brothers Rowe, Dennis and Nelson, Mc. Kean, Smith, Brower and come together to
confidential deliberation in these difficult times, and the real representatives also, at least the most
important, which were present in the South Pacific, not the Protestant doctrine more breaking
only air among the nations, although even now whole groups of islands
their gods had remained loyal to the new faith and rejected distrustful
of himself, but to safeguard and protect against Catholicism, who
had followed their footsteps and Wing now spread to obscure their
own light.

Brother Dennis was certainly among them, and especially in his character as a missionary, the
most significant, and although not one of the oldest, but in any case the most enthusiastic
teachers the islands where there was only one sacred goal strive toward, to proclaim the Saviour
his wounds and blood to preach in the desert. He was also one of the few, the setting aside
every thought of himself attracted to the stranger, the Bible in
the arm, the upscale Cross, yes to defend the sword in the right,
if irritated his treasure, and recklessly continue border here, what
beliefs, family circumstances which he joined in the feet when he
saved only the souls of the damned, and they proclaimed the salvation
that God commanded them, and took the path around the earth to get
to them.

Self-interest, ambition was not his own, no family ties bound him, not friendship, not Love had
turned away his heart for only one hour to the high end of his life can make, and he was lost for the
day on which he did not at least one, his Destruction is moving towards sinners shaken awake,
and shown him the depths of which he will walk, or had endured and suffered in the spread of that
faith, his light and salvation and air and love.

Of slight but not feeble body, tough to the extreme hardship and hardships
and lived, which he visited more than avoided, he had the greatest
part roamed the islands, the most hostile tribes there with "Christian
humility" as he's called, defied, and their high priests in his beard,
the impotence and futility announced their idols.

The Indians respect the brave, where they find him, and courageous really had to be the one who
alone and unarmed in a hostile area foolhardy truly The attack, which kept the enemy at the
dearest, and for which he risked his life would have preserve, even among the victims clubs
even had it already fanatical Despite this rigid saved him and the respect of his former enemies,
and often the subsequent victory over them, secured.

Here is the victory already in hand can it imagine, what with pain and anger of the "servant Men
enter the "foreign priest looked at his sanctuary, and undermine the construction of which
his church Jahrzehende already built a temple and promised to be in Zion Splendor and glory.
With trembling hope well, but looked with fear and distrust He therefore opposed the deployment
of that flag to them either the good help from the mother country brought after they even one
of their own, the venerable Mr. Pritchard, both Consul had sent Her Britannic Majesty, or new difficulties
and embarrassments could prepare the greedy demands French captain against.

The Rowe brothers and Nelson know in their character we have as diverse.

Two others, Mc. Kean and Brower were simple people, people who have their life in the Bible dug up
made the noble metal with the gangue tedious and cheerful without being able to melt it and
divorce, and it is now piled high mountains around had an excellent defense, at least to skid,
to anyone who come near them and wanted to make them their position in dispute or bekritisiren.

Brother
Smith was found to be one of those very different personality, small and smooth He had dedicated himself
to the mission being, as he is any other state or business would have paid. Of enthusiasm for
him was no question of even less enthusiasm. He looked at the whole inner being of the mission on
a genuine earthly and practical way as a business that has been entrusted
to it by the Missionary Society of the love God and in this remote
corner he seemed perfectly willing all those obligations which the
it was for a prescribed manner, to fulfill faithfully provided, however,
that it then the good God, among other little things, even the request
for daily bread meet with its different variations.

Was also an excellent businessman, one of its main activities which,
from England to support the mission received Commodities, which of
course had a greater value than money itself, or from raw products
Makes the Indians to the extent that they produced, even against labor
and even done Services to install, and a better man would not choose
this, the company can.

It would certainly be more fitting to have been engagirt this, a special man, which then would
have nothing "with the spiritual part of the 'business may have to do; the teacher's business is
suffering, where the teacher at the same time in addition to his spending his intellectual secular
revenue must be calculated. Brother Smith, but both knew on such a clever way to To unite and
the commodity with such anointing, the ruler with those calculated
prudence issue, not least that the islanders rarely both received
no more from each other were able to distinguish and were in doubt
for which of the two things she her coconut oil and their pearls and
shells actually brought to market, and whether a good or bad deal
it made.

Brother Smith was also far from the rugged, repulsive dark of Rowe, and even the enthusiastic
Dennis. When the prayer was particularly the latter as an angry spirit, provide the wrath
of God on every niederzudonnern who thought differently or as he said, while Brother Smith
with calm deliberation, the practical side of Christian faith is not alone did not fail, but
even turned to the outside. The One, won the second was the Gentiles Christianity.

Brower and Mc. Kean was a cross of the two, more of the form like the sense of the whole Hanging;
Smith wound through between Allen. With a sagacity worthy of recognition Characters, between
which he was, he was fanatic or enthusiast, husband of the form or the simple faith, to believe
blindly follows precisely the forms, but these but just depends on the faith, makes them subject
to such. However, he never lost his Use any one hour from the eye and tireless in collecting
for his holy purpose; grew it needs from the ground, and became trees, their fruit in the rich
full measure of him back down and shook.

He was also threatened the supremacy of France in the innermost soul averse, but not all alone
with that spiritual conviction with his brother Dennis the destruction of the righteous previously
announced, if they could be tempted by the false teachings from the right path departing but almost
everything in the mercantile interest. The French had, in fact, under the protection started their
guns, a quantity of various until now by him advantage sold commodities to the island thrown
at prices he could previously only be determined, while he now opened
this one in fact not negligible competition.

Colorful vulgar and printed calico for which it so far with ease by half a dollar Yard get
squandered, frivolous young French people by half, and if the people purchased from a Gentile,
if it get the cheaper commodity, not how much more of the "New Christians". The intruders also
paid far more for the products of the Indians, as they reasonably should pay if they are not the
market for later times would spoil. There was no order in the matter, and the merchant went to the
Christians hand in hand, to beg the Evangelical Church of the victory
over the "Baal" as they were usually called from the pulpit.

But back to our ship, the attention on the beach standing in the most embarrassing stretched,
and still inclined to the bare poles seemed to over emphasize, without even only to show even
the color of his flag.

"Bless my soul," said a negro standing close to the beach, which used to be a Whale catcher on
any island was sprung and found his way to Tahiti had, where he is
now among the natives, and partly to its extremely glossy black Color,
partly because of his corpulence was considered a kind of authority
in maritime cases - "Bless my soul if I do not think the guy wants
to enter.

If he does in the See tries he can be sure that he is now in ~ ~ Davy's locker (for Seeausdruck
Underworld feeds) to night, for no steamship could keep free of the Leeriffen. "

"And what kind of sailing do you think that it is Pompey?" Asked him Tati, the chief, not far
from the he got up and had looked at the car with a scowl.

»English ~ ~ by God Massa," cried the negro soon, who knew the chief - "English, each Inches from
her [D] - and probably a thorn in Massa's Gumbo [E] eyes over there, now between two fires comes
when he einheizen the black skirts and wants to lease land from Queen Pomare, haw, haw, haw.
You should see another Frenchman happen, then gives's fun, but this Child went into the mountains,
Massa, because if they started to play here with the iron balls, it's 'd 'To many it will be too
warm in his coat. "

"The Reine Blanche ~ ~ is it," was but another opinion, sometimes by as wildfire the crowd ran
for the dreaded Admiral You ~ ~ Petit Thouars was long again been
expected in port, and despite the confident assertions of the missionaries
that England in any case send them protection and assistance will,
against the Roman enemy, but you dare the guns of the latter, not
the city already twice with his iron sides had threatened and forced
to accept his conditions.

The French Consul had protested against the last hearing and had gone
away angry; which report he would make the French Admiral? - And the
Queen it was then again pay for, as before.

"There - there goes the flag of Talbot," as Pompey suddenly exclaimed - "and since the private
signals - He is trying to warn the others running in front. "

"There is some color on board out there," shouted one of the natives, despite the still strong
Blow and swings of the tree was climbed a palm tree, a better overview
to win - "Will be equal's out"

"Here comes the flag - Old England for ever," exulted a young boy, one of the Seecadet Talbot had
been on holiday on land as the storm began - "there is blowing the Union ~ ~ Jack and Monsiehr
Crapo has been happy too soon if he thought it would be a countryman. "

»English Flag - English frigate shouted and waved it, but even now confused in the country, the
missionaries on the Verandah shook his hand, and a great part of
the islanders cheered, however, contrary to the foreign ships, but
also watched some of Tati's Annex moreover very angry, and saw the
party winning again, which they previously always disturbing and obstructive
stood in their way.

The two British warships were different, however, quickly, only known to them Signals changed, and
the foreign frigate was still constantly on the mouth of the harbor , as if she wanted to
force the entrance, despite wind, waves and coral, but if too the real storm had subsided, the
west wind was blowing but still too much the break- in the port itself
would be the terrible breakers not been to dare and The frigate, which
perhaps only accepted this position and their signals properly can
blow out to clear, fell off again before the wind, their braßte square
topsail and flew almost on top, and tackle just outside the area of
​​dangerous rocks, perhaps Jump again and return heave of the wind
in the usual trade wind that does not much longer could fail to be
seen.

As long as the signals have continued, the natives had kept fairly
quiet, with only some of the Queen and the chiefs devoted missionaries,
and especially Aonui Potowai had gone up in the house where they saw
the holy men gathered to their opinion on the English warship hear
einzukommen any event, intended.

The missionaries only had a voice over, hoping that they conveniently worded messages from England
would bring, so that was perhaps brother Pritchard himself on board,
the rights of the islanders to acknowledge and protect the power sent.

That was enough like a wildfire, the good news passed through the
individually scattered on the beach Group: "The war ship has come
for us, the French have nothing more on the islands to order - the
contract they have concluded and there was only charged us concerning
their slaves, and the reintroduction of idolatry is destroyed and
no Flag should fly over here, the Tahitian and English!

"

Aonui was the wildest among them.

"Brothers, the day of retribution has been released," he cried, there in a heap ascended and the
elaboration of specific wood canoes jumping from which he covered him standing could see light
"coming to Beretanis - which have brought us the Bible to bring We now also cannons to defend
our Bible - the Beretanis are good - we want to Nothing more - we
have to go the Bible and the Feranis, we can not keep - We want to
wish you joy - but not here, anywhere else. - We have the Feranis
sweet - very sweet - they are our brothers - but not as brothers as
the Beretanis; The other kind Beretanis have brought us the Bible,
do the Feranis take it again. - Feranis have plenty of space elsewhere
- we want to wish them joy.

"

That was about the meaning of the speech delivered by the chief, the individual sentences are
new to's repetitive, vorschrie his countrymen, as the surging tumult around him lasted, however,
and he could appease him and his voice is not, he had to drown himself, but understood the meaning
but they, the approximate meaning of the whole, at least, and by word of mouth was the cry:
"Away with the Feranis to continue with the flag back on board with the priests to us by the
new idol have made the mountains, the old do in spite of us and take our faith and our country
and the Bible.
 He drew her to quiet
, and she laid her head pressed firmly to his shoulder, without a single word Say without a
sound emit.

"Poor Sadie," he whispered softly, and kissed her on the forehead
glowing hot - pressed solid it to him, but she hardly breathed, and
Rene felt her tremble in his arms.

"We want to go home, my sweet love," said he bent down to whisper to her, and she nodded vigorously
on his chest, talking to but no - her heart was so full - so full and so painful. Silently, he
took his hat, which Madame Belard already made it to cope, and his arm around her shoulder
to support it at the same time and to lead, he left with it illuminated the, air-breathing life
and home, searching through a back door into the open, up front, the bright windows over a hundred
of natives were standing and lying, the sounds the instruments, the strange tunes, listening
to every now and then a similarity in time by individual members
shrugged, and drove them to dance in the hand, the middle of the Street
outside.

Through the garden, among the dewy bananas and oranges, they walked out, slowly and silently along
the narrow path on which the moon only with difficulty by palm crown and Brodfruchtwipfel some
of its rays could throw down.

A narrow gate leading to the outer road and following this they soon reached the dark palm
grove from the foot of the hills from to close to the beach and handed bespühlen of the waves
themselves had their roots.

"You should really look at our customs and amusements," said René
finally softly as they have long been without explicit steps side
by side and try just anxious René was that close to him, snuggled
in the form of the young woman before any unevenness of the road to
preserve.

"You should dance and be merry, and have found there only pain and Heartache. "

Sadie wanted to talk; René felt as they rose out half of his heart, but It was as if her character
or the word will be lacking.

"Are you angry with me, Sadie?"

René finally said after a long pause, searching her face elevate themselves.

"No, René," she whispered softly, shaking his head slowly - "no, not evil - But - but I had one
request of you. "

"And they call my heart."

"You were so happy in Atiu" - Sadie went away after a moment's hesitation, - "no pain, no Woe threatened
to disturb our peace. There - no white men and women were on, " drove them more courage winning,
but still shy away from him, "You were there one of the become our,
all you had loved, and I myself - was a child of the soil and found
where my home.

Here we are strangers, and the character of the country, by your
countrymen, as well as the British become different.

The white people think themselves better in their color, "she continued, more quiet," as we
are, where the sun darker skin. Tell me Nothing, however, René, I know, so much it does me,
I would like to take it continue if I do not just ask for your sake
you should back to me of - for your sake to retire here.

"

"My sake, Sadie?" Said René, but he was not serious with the question and Sadie knew it.

"If you do not feel myself, René," she said sadly, "with words I can not tell you describe, and I can
only assure you that I have the conviction we both right, would be very unhappy if we stayed
here. "

"But my business," said René.

"Does not the Cocoa-nut tree milk in abundance," asked Sadie, is clinging tightly to him, "Is
not the bread-fruit fully ripe on the branch, and the Orange offers you the fruit by their
fragrant blossoms to shake you down, you do not know me - your child? - Is not the peace of God
in that quiet little island kingdom, which His grace equipped with everything what kind and
nice and good and fertile? View René, she was loud, firm added, "Everything I've done what you
asked of me, I've acquired your morals, so far It was in my power, I wear your clothes, I speak
your language, I have my Heart given you, you, only you alone - and my child. Only - was just
the color I not change, if the God of my skin - I am a child of the islands, and as such have
You love me, learned and taken to your wife. But my sisters here in Tahiti are of a different
kind - not brought up with as faithful as I care, they generally live without form, and wildly
from day to day - and your compatriots who have a lot of the blame. You have learned today
in what respect the islander with them is - do you want to witness any longer as they offend me
and push down? - And yet you have not seen a tenth part of the what
I like knives cutting into the soul, not the cold contemptuous glances
of individual women - Does not include the frivolous words to me,
often secretly, often without fear and awe whispered in the ears were,
and drove the blood into the cheeks.

I do not belong among those People, I fit well not for them, not for me, and do you want to stay
here Tahiti, You may not disconnect you from the now perhaps cherished life, let me at home with
my child, Rene, there I belong, fill the space I, and our You may lodge itself is a home -
but Atiu will replace us before. - O hesitate You back, René. "

René replied nothing; silence they walked out together, and great pictures flashed it by sense
and brain, which he could not form, not to give interpretation. The busy, if not social life Papetee
it was partly become a necessity, he do not like to give up, he liked to admit but far less, and yet
again he felt in a vague idea of ​​the danger which threatens his domestic bliss here could. He found
himself in strife and conflict with Europeans, the Indians attacked his Religion and Ethnicity,
despised by the Europeans because of his marriage, and through all this, mischievous like a dazzling
beam flashed the white, beautiful face of the alien girl the cold and sneering at him and
looked down his fear and anguish as to just below seemed to scoff. Right now he should leave Papetee,
where she appeared here, that they probably do afterwards boasted that he had fled from her? - Bah
- what was it? - Its beauty, it could do not entice, Sadie was beautiful - and her mind? -
It lacked the gentle femininity those infinite charm of the beloved awarded. - And their color
- blind people foolish people, to estimate the value of a heart after the goblet or color, and
the sweet fruit at all why to despise because they tanned by the sun a little more. And yet it was
now the ambitious young man a bitter painful feeling that, with that
cold smile could look down on him, thought he was a torture, and a
sigh, raising his chest.

It was the first time the desire that the beloved would be its color, and Sadie heard and
understood the sigh, as she lowered her head and walked silently down beside him.

As they approached the quiet friendly place of their own country, was the dull muffled Light
that poured from one curtained window, illuminated the bedroom of
her child, the Palme their broad tops go rushing about, silent and
solemn, and it was as if they listen and the sleep of his favorite
colorful friendly prompter of his dreams small bed.

Almost involuntarily remained husband and wife are, and how their views on the peaceful Roof
rested, they embraced the most dear, as René of a thousand happy, blissful hours thought that
he had spent there with his wife dared, and now the earlier time - The first time his love, his
hopes, the won, the hard-won happiness rose in full living color in front of his inner spirit,
as he was then the moment blessed this paradise in which he entered first, as he felt a very
soft, repentant Feeling, and his wife, his faithful good wife, pulling
tightly to him, he pressed his lips its glowing end, and love word
"Sadie" died in the long, hot kiss.

"Come," she whispered finally, and quietly withdrew from his embrace - "come" and his hand! moving,
she led her husband to the bed of the child.

Oh so sweet rested the little darling, the light, obscured by a large banana leaf, threw out
only the faint green glow over the sleeping angel, and the long silken lashes were fully resistant
to the flourishing of sleep reddened cheeks and a sweet-hearted Smile
played about the fine and delicately cut lips.

Angels whisper to the child if It smiles in his sleep, and the mother's heart provides protection
of the intellectual wing spread over the favorite.

Come, dear reader, come on - you see the group there, the heart of the woman to the man's chest,
Mother and father love the sleep of innocence, listening and God bless pleading down to the
head of the sleeping child? - And about the rustling palm trees, the image of peace? around them
but the quiet rustling trees, and the stars glittering crowd who witnessed the new covenant?
- Come, softly, softly that you did not disturb me, the friendly image. - Where? - After the beach
I lead you - you can hear the surf roar out over the reefs? - They thundered their old eternally
continued undaunted, yet mysterious, quiet today ' Night, as if they themselves are afraid to
disturb the holy peace, on the beautiful Island rests, and how the moon rises over disc up there
on the mountain slope and its Light over the lake, pours him the surf wave flash in the broad
silver lining to the beam back. Come down there is my canoe, and that kind of light illuminates
us on our Train. So, just a sidewalk and not be afraid to be wavering, the Luvbaum it completely protects
before each placement, any further danger, and by the way I control
you Corallenriffe in the sharp-built boat on the moonlit water, others,
though not so peaceful To scenes.

Clear water below us - deep, deep it is down there in "purple darkness" and clear glowing dots
flashing and pull through the mysterious, the human eye untapped World. Down there, the coral
tree down the left and right over its walls and embankments, against thousands of the wild
seas crash, and inside there he has his quiet House built and arched
his crist crystalline roof, and now at night it lights the green All
the lights, and like a flash Feeendom it's up and radiate to you.

"The stars when they grow old and die, they fall into the sea," you said the Indians, "And there
they celebrate their rebirth and dance and be young again" - but it's believable not, deep down
in the Corallenwald, the narrow and densely intertwined branches of the envious want to keep
them secret confided, merry mermaids dancing people, your own hair by twinkling lights interwoven,
even the happy dance, flitting among the trees, over and over, and goes up and down often ignite
like a bright beam. And the dreaming Fischer top, lying in his canoe, and looking down in
amazement to him from his wonderful World sees the lights and follow their twitching and shooting
with his eyes, and also believes sometimes that he, by his side - but no eavesdropping, "he'd
ever really the spirits, he would never return to the shore, and
only on the threshold he must focus on how nature provides us Everyone
on the emerging leaves, and not allowed to view her wonderful work
secret.

Next - do not look down too long, you dizzy, and do you see the bright streak over there, the twice
fired over and over, and there seems at home, where the Corallenhang
the wide arms throwing up - that's a shark that our Kahne follows
lurking - a Guardian his bosses down there.

See, curling bow and hisses from the flood and the silver-red-hot flashes her sparkling diamonds
same crackling sparkling lights from quiet on the water on which they rest for a while and then melt
away. More and more disappearing back the bank, and we see the shadow of the Palm no longer reflected
in the clear flood, as the tree tops over wide ranges far to and the morning dew prostrate in her
own image. The mountain with its enormous Outline emerges en masse, and left us thunders and
foams the surf and jump higher up, and rolled louder and more violent,
as if they oppose us and our approach wished to scare their neighbors.

Close to the way we glide Corallenbank - so thick that we with the rudder, the hochaufzackenden
rigid branches and touch sea urchins and Stachelei in their beds in the shimmering jet matt phosphorus
glow can be seen - the sharper the rippling waters at the bow and a Gluth line is going behind the
Canoe the stirred wave. Next - covered by dark night, on the moon as a silver haze is zurückzublitzen
and only to its own beam seems the wooded banks extends to our right,
with its dark orange and Guiavenschatten, his fan-leaved pandanus
and waving palm trees.

Next - the scared gulls, which sweeps in rapid circular swing of the tide comes down to the dark
shadow of the canoe, flapping back, returns, and rambling to a large
powerful bow she disappears into the dim light hybrid, and only the
sharp Scream still echoing in dark distance to us, the path follows
the betraying them now.

Look how dark the promontory is also stored there in the lake, a giant monster like from the
mountains descended here and thrown into the clear flood, the hot
cool flanks and the parched throat - and the roar of the water - it
is nevertheless almost as if the heavy breathing of the colossus over
tones in long huge breaks.

It slides out of the boat; so close - through the palm trees on the shore You can use the Southern
Cross To recognize as it rotates around the South Pole Axe - and the lights over there? there
is the Limit of our poetry - the Compaßlichter are anchored in the
port's ships, and in the open hatches are brazen cannon, like sleeping
now under construction, at any moment but ready to send the iron messengers
of death over these quiet shores.

In that proud ship are we going - is the Talbot's - and the man there, who the Chin resting on
his arm, looking dreamily at us across the wake-to-do sailors, who had already long observed
the approaching boat, has secretly and shakes his head as the silent rowers Out here in the bay
do so late at night. How proud the masts and symmetrical, with spinnewebartigen its tangle of ropes
and stays sharp and clear sign off against the lighter Firmament,
and as light and elastic rests the imposing building on the water,
the gulls immediately the slumbering, the soft wave sought to rock
itself to sleep through the silent night.

And over there? - The slender wasp-like building proclaims another warship, the ~ Jeanne d'Arc
~ threatened, as it would appear from the Talbot and the Vindictive here over there, that mighty
colossus that holds the muzzle of his gun again addressed over, but the Teeth pointing just as
the greater enemy, and determined, despite the Corvette is still
and quiet greeting in more dangerous neighborhoods, and with the morning
sun does not rapidly the first ray of the proud flag of Albion, flutter
funny as her three colors in the wind.

What a strange own image in the flood down there, like the shadows
of the dark yards pass over and over, and the stars look their picture
next to it in the scary dark Water level.

Listen to the warship drown the beating of a bell, "strikes six bells," is eleven o `clock
and no sooner has the bell of the windlass, forward on the Vorcastle of the Vindictive Compaßschlag
responded, as in rapid succession, the ~ ~ Jeanne d'Arc to the Talbot same time, and beat them
to all ships in the bay the hour. Everything is back still and quiet as before, the night is silent
on the barely-breathing sea, so that the step of every guard on the next cover of the French
warship significantly hears, and the slight buzz of a local melody sounds quiet, with the regular
course, to the beat of the water. There begins a ship slowly look up the lost time - Laughs, the
French sentinel, and is complying with singing, sleepy rough Strokes
of a cracked bell.

From there, they come from the whale catcher lies precisely in our car, and the Man of the guard
had slept soundly in the lee of the boat and dreamed as sweet as beating the bell rang again
and again over him. One, two, three, four, five, six - The first fine and then deep - he was
one of any ship, and all still again as and become quiet, and he had waited long in his half-sleep
that the rattling sounds of his own bad-ship, the once vigorous Kitty Clover ~ ~ As always the
rear, should apply because it only occurred to him that he himself just got the office, the old
world-weary Bell spoke to make, and with a softly muttered curse, he gathered together, stood
on the bobbin and appealing that he rang six times in discord with
the broken hand; he growled at each sad blow:

"Damn you - old - ruptured
- rattling - buzzing - Noise iron you!

Tis a scandal for the whole neighborhood, "he then added growl, when he camp again looked under
the boat, go to the moon rays to at least out of the way and not wake up the next morning with
swollen physiology.

The moon is now full and light against the edge of the dirty, blackened with smoke and tar, thranigen vessel
Kitty Clover ~ ~ - the sails which had been resolved yesterday to dry, hang halbaufgegeit,
the wide Theerstreifen the Reefer showing [H] to the yards, and the short Poles with the wide
seat for the look-out, raised the boats and Cocosblattmatten densely covered with the hot sun during
the day to keep from the torn copper on the bow, the Signs of a long journey, all the business
of the bears witness whale catcher, but is Here he slow and lazy, dream to rest in the middle
almost in the good season, and place in Ambush north up the fish and to fill his trunk.

Right under his Krahnen we slide down, and free to the bay stretches out before us here. - Do
you see over there the small palm-covered island, next to the entrance? - ~ ~ Motuuta is it that
the royal seat of Pomare, the silent witness to their former power and domestic bliss. - Gone, so is the
time of Pomare, past, and their power has become a mockery between English and French; the
game, roll the dice, the two nations, perhaps with cannon balls, or even to an enemy, as not worth
the dispute to leave voluntarily. 

The islanders of the Pacific is actually not lazy - we at least have no right for him, the nature,
where all he needs when he stretches out his hand just then, a very to require such action, as
all our air, our soil, our overcrowded State the condition of our existence has made us so well
and so that each merit taken, it has appropriated to us - we can not even live without it,
and therefore also do not brag to her. It would neither one of our rich people, our reindeer and
to chop wood or capitalists come to build roads with shovel and pickaxe - "We do not need it,"
she said with a shrug, "We have our people," The same. says the islanders - "I do not need
it," or if he's not saying it is in every muscle his face, in every nerve of his body. The Brodfruchtbaum
him fed, and a thousand other fruit trees shake himself the most luxurious meal on the floor down,
with only the Clothing was knocked out earlier by the women and girls from the bark of certain
trees, and this only compel employment devoted at least the female portion of the population
some time, but even that is now, much to the detriment of the islanders, the first of the missionaries
and later made other Europeans imported calico unnecessary and lifted, and the missionaries themselves
they sold the European substance, which by their bright colors liked to have a replacement
item for which they own their Living, like other what they used for the convenience of their
existence, get could. The women were taken to the last useful employment, and Bible reading,
That should give them for replacement, could they tie, of course only as long as it just had
the charm of novelty for them. What they care about the legends of a people from whom they do
not once had an idea where and when it exists, and now, where on the belief that Miracle of
their own gods through the strangers shaken, so upset been the same since they should believe
and trustfully even more wonderful things ? Look up -

Oh well - the sun ripened their fruit still as ever - in the shadow of its magnificent forests
rested's as cool as ever, and dreamed of the future will be much more likely, at least much
easily meet, but that they had a hand "to put to the plow," as the
missionaries constantly demanded of them.

Anyone who wanted something from them it had to pay well - then maybe they did it, but they would
still not compelled to do so.

"Where he leads me down?" Jack said with a faint hint of suspicion when he saw how the Indians
made ready to accompany him, "I have far to go?"

"At a house in the mountains," replied Jim, quietly whispering to
him the words - "even Mother Tot does not need to know the place,
although you would not be betrayed, by which non- itself would have
the same fear of love - the place is barely half a mile from here
away, but hidden, and is at least not as here as a secret hiding place
runaway sailors throughout Papetee, indeed all over the island, infamous
- you are ready?

"

"I need some other arrangements," laughed Jack, "as my jacket button up again? - But the bottle
I take with me here, it's still a drop in it, and the fog is close to the mountains. And now, farewell,
mother, and retributive 'you God-friendly Entertain - maybe even
till I am able.

And you, comrade, "he turned suddenly or against the man from the Kitty Clover ~ ~ to enter
the whole time since Jack the hut, not a syllable spoken, and the foreign journeymen only
sometimes, when that happen unnoticed could, in under his hat brim had observed, "You might
not feel like a Abendspatziergang participate? - 'Tis damn boring work so alone with a red skin out
in the Bushes to crawl. "

"Thanks," muttered the sailor, but without looking up - "find myself g'rade home here where I am."

"All right," grumbled the other darkness - for promotional company
and bad, "and with a short greeting to Jim over, he waved his leader
and left quickly and sullen the house.

Not a word was spoken, when the light Bambusthür closed again behind the two, and those who
remained many minutes long silent and listened attentively to the,
now in the Distant echoing steps.

The man from the Kitty Clover ~ ~, Bob called, broke first the silence again, and advancing with
dark brows the hat from his forehead he muttered, speaking more to himself than to others, and
the last words of the strange Boys repeating that here was so suddenly appeared and disappeared
between them:

"Better no company like bad? - Weather friend, You would look far
and wide in the world must, if you wanted to see how worse your own
sweet self.

"

"You know him?" Asked Jim quickly, turning around at the same time
according to the spokesman.

"Maybe not as good as you," laughed this dry, "but always still good enough to be happy be that
he called back my face is not just old scenes into the memory. We were before not so many years shipmates,
yes Vortopgäste together, and he was whipped and later managed to
land in chains, because he and M. D. indistinguishable from each other
knew.

"

"The M. and D.?" Jim said, surprised.

"Now that were mine and yours," laughed the whale catchers, "but even worse things to him the
load down, and only half a miracle saved him at that time of the Raanocke - deserves had he been
ten times. "

! »Look out," she whispered as the voice of the old quickly and carefully
between them - watch out, " out there again because the steps are
not placed - and the lazy Gauch of a shoemaker cowers behind his back
as truly bulky Bible and the pages full of coconut oil lubricated
- Out with you, man, where you belong, and that, but the evil with
you and the book davonflöge.

"

Murphy seemed to have rested, however, completely, and had it off, and the bottle again lost his
nightly Comforter, the Bible, taken from the cornice, on he brooded by the dim light of the
unsteady flame. Dead Mother's anger speech bothered him Now, however, something in this laudable
work, but partly made angry by the loss of brandy, and partly by the relentless attacks of
the Mosquit, which he evening could not resist today, was an otherwise hardly conceivable to
him spirit, the spirit of Opposition, into him, looking away and
sullen about the book and the light he cried its fine, now angry excited
voice:

"Oh, the hell, I seek out nothing, and if one treats you like
a man could also exist as a human being.

Let the watch have to be afraid of what; Murphy has a good conscience sit here long and well. "

"Now that has been missing me," cried Mother Dead, rising from her
seat and the rebels down, which kept only just enough time with the
frame of the lamp between them and the to bring shrew.

Tot mother seemed to know his tactics before, and with a handle her long arms around the flame caught
her across the book, lifted it with both arms up and threw it quickly and with a wrathful
curse to the head of the small Schuster, who only by rapid immersion of the not inconsiderable
weight of the tape could escape. "There," she screaming, cherry-red with rage - "there you bastard,
so take that and studier's, and now also with you, or as sure as the moon is up there in the sky,
I pour You name the coconut oil over the body, and you as an unclean pork broth that is you
- You -. You leather engraver You "

"To hell again, mother," cried Jim now intervened, however, is also made to go away ready, and
buttoned his jacket, his hat was wearing - "let the noise here, you
make even a scandal that the dogs start barking on the beach.

I will's scary in here, and I find myself prefer a quieter neighborhood. Come, Comrade, I will bring
you more in good company this evening and tomorrow morning there will be - hell! " he interrupted
but quickly and frightened, for outside rattled suddenly as a given command, a number of rifle
butts on the floor, close to the entrance of the hut down, and the voice of a command ends
in French language was loud

"Two of you around the house, whether it still has another entrance, and your stay here at
the door, which wants to force through the Push out your down - fire
on any refugee.

"

"All weather," grumbled Bob, now also springing up, and his canvas pants by type of seafarers
in the amount dragging - "Jack has slipped them at the right time in the mouth."

He had no time for further comment, as the door was thrown open at this moment, bending down
and joined a French sea officer, which a number of Marines with fixed bayonets followed, and
thus a departure from the hut, which had no windows, impossible.

The officer, whose views the inner space, except the fact the uncertain light of Cocosflamme allowed
to fly, Murphy himself stuck on the first, little attention to the patrol or Searched the house
taking care to which it be by a long series of years, well accustomed
liked, had taken up only quickly and dismayed his Bible, and now with
the big book not fast enough to drive into his Hülfskalebasse.

"Hello, sir - what have you there so precious to hide Hey," he said in English, and walked slowly
toward the little man who squeezed almost instinctively the first
half Book aside and pushed into the shadows, and reached for a shoe
or part thereof as if he would start in the middle of the night with
his dark, abandoned work again.

"And are you coming here to visit Ireland Sirrah, our bags?" Growled but surly The little Irishman,
who had already cast a side glance at the treacherous hated uniform, and despite all his courage-headed
or had rather not get back the spirit of contradiction, as He found that the nocturnal visits
were not only soldiers and missionaries, "when's my pleasure makes,
I can fill my pockets so full of gourds and how and with what I want
- what it works for you?

"

"Slowly, my boy, slowly," laughed the officer, our old friend Bertrand, by the surly response
made no evil - "if I were to be afterwards curious You'll have to show it's me, but now, above all,
we want your house something strictly speaking, if we do not see an old friend and shipmate is
can, which has probably run off the vessel, and not in the dark night again can find back
there.

The Guiaven are too close to your house - you should they a little light. "

»How do I know they are but still not tight enough," Murphy muttered
softly to himself out, mother was dead but for him on the conversation,
and with her shrill voice she screamed against the officer:

"Your
home, your apartment?

Whose house do you have here is different than mine? and you think that because of the dirty
Schuster has an apartment for himself? - Is that a fashion a poor single woman under cover of
darkness to fall into the house, and to frighten them, that they could have the death of it? what
do you want? who are you? Who do you seek? Now, you have lost the language that you will stand
out as God? "

"All weather," laughed Bertrand, who is only now by his amazement at the wonderful, in front of
him rising from the flame and fantastic enough could recover drenched figure - "That a lady
is, by all that swims there, I had no idea that the beautiful withdraw
sex even in such old overcoats.

"could

"Oh what a beautiful family - Dame," growled the shrew, "what you
will, whom do you seek? and a trifle surprising, because it is bedtime,
and I want to have my peace as I ask may.

"

The officer could hear little more to it but closer to the light stepping, and his eyes with the left
outstretched hand on the other hand protectively, he sought above
all to figure out whether, in addition to, sitting next to the lamp
or other individuals may be located in the hut, or even hidden, would
avoid a very superficial investigation in a convenient manner.

Jim had the first real, and as he heard the first low penetration of the rifle butt, a movement
made as if he wanted to retire to the back and darker portion of the cabin when but his sharp
ear and out there heard steps, he stopped and sat quietly even then, just as the officer walked
into the hut, down again to his old place, where he, with his head in his hands, and the breiträndigen
Wachstuchhut only slightly lower in the eyes moved, quietly remained seated, and the whole thing
seemed to wait with a completely clear conscience to do. Only the suspicious and sinister look,
which he secretly, under the shadow of his Brim of his hat before, after the officer fired
over, would like the tightly clenched teeth can imagine that but not everything with him is so
good and right, and he may currently preferred by the mosquitoes
most haunted Guiavensumpf than just this want to have comfortable
place where he was held.

"What or whom I seek, madame?" Repeated Bertrand slowly and almost to himself talking - "hm,
Jack seems to be right out of the dust and made it a safer place found to have. You, there,
two of you, "he then turned in French to the soldiers, "one looks back to the wall if you discover
someone somewhere still, and if so, bring him to the light, maybe I can, however, these two boys,
sitting there so silent, give some more information about the wanted person. Hey Gentlemen,
" he asked, turning now to the two people, one of which Bob was not to be mistaken as a sailor,
while even Jim had a pretty maritime painting, and here in Tahiti, where no other people could
suspect profession, could very well apply for belonging to salt water - "I seek a man sprung
from the Jeanne d'Arc ~ ~, who goes by the name Jack, and otherwise such a cunning villain is worthless,
as ever a shoe leather trample or has washed the deck of a ship.
Can one of you put me on the track?

"

? »Wheel bring" muttered Bob, but it - "if it were at sea, on land,
but here I am always happy when I find again the banks themselves,
not between me the damn trees to run - but you've got you already
looking for another.

"

"But you've seen the guy somewhere, pal?" Asked "the officer again, the wanted suspect from
the very essence of the old thing like almost. "He is Jack."

"So we all pretty hot," growled the sailor - "if you can not name
one white on English ships, they call him Jack - every sailor is actually
a born Jack, and get the other names, such as the Frauensvolk in marriage,
with the first salt-water grog without sugar and rum, they pour it
over the head.

"

Bertrand had while Bob said, first on the face of Jim, and then again in the hut looked, in
his memory, but other pictures were awake, and again and again turned his gaze back to the halbbeschatteten
features of the man on fire with brows and now sat in his pocket
began to search for tobacco, a Pipe to plug.

"Hello, comrade," he said at last, when the two soldiers were returned
and reported No one had that are more in the hut, "where we both have
ever since our waters crossed? - You are an Englishman?

"

"At least not far away," growled Jim, even more in depth in his pipe,
and now half turned away from the light - "but not the honor - the
same people like Leaves and eggs - all bear his nose right in the
face.

"

Bertrand hid eyes for a moment in his hand, as if by any external impressions to put off his memory - a rich
life that he was flying in confused images in the mind Mind over, but too much of the scenes,
too much of the characters changed and swam from one another because, as to allow it so quickly
that he was the one who demanded handles out from the crowd, and just shaking his head, he walked
with his arms folded a few times up and down in the hut without,
as it seemed to pay attention to the Inwohner much, almost forgetting
why He actually came here.

Jim was there this most unnecessary attention that the officer, whom he himself quite well recognized,
turned on him, anything but agreeable, and he began it is not just
so sure to feel in his place.

He got up slowly and pulled the light the hut.

Bertrand stamped his foot impatiently.

"God knows," he muttered quietly to himself while, "where I have the
Galgenphysionomie once were, but not insignificant it was for sure
- now maybe it is me again - ha - he said, looking up, the sailor
as he is no longer in his seat saw - "ah, the Lord's probably asleep
here, and wants to make up his bed? - Have Your permission to stay
in the country, and on what ship you belong?

"

"I belong to no's," said Jim dark from the shadows in front of the hut - "the Here is my island
home, and I will be able to sleep d'up, I think. "

"And you, my lad, on which ship you one," he now turned to Bob - "or
You are crunching you as well to the natives, with your fear of the
trees?

"

"Damn it, no," muttered the sailor, "I belong to ~ ~ Kitty Clover."

"The whale catcher?"

"Yes."

"And why are you not on board because, Sirrah asked," the officer
sharply - "the Kitty Clover ~ ~ is at all suspected in the other charge
than whale oil to keep on board, and if I do not mislead the missionaries
have already filed a complaint that you flooded the whole place with
Brandy. "

"The missionaries can go to the grass," Bob replied matter
the talk "a lot when the day is long. Which by the way the Kitty Clover
~ ~ does not concern me - the Kitty Clover ~ ~ is a very independent
woman. "

Bertrand laughed. The visit - Aumama 67 "4 missionaries in 1990 "5 The Queen Pomare
   121 "6 A ball in Papetee 167 "7th Heading 235 "8 dead mother's Hotel
   254
   
   First chapter
   

# The girl from Tahiti and the old acquaintances.

#

The prayer was over, the loud solemn Amen swelled through the tops of palm trees to the lake,
to be out there with the surf rolls mix. By Amen, but it also seemed as if the Spell was broken,
the light of joyful sense of the islanders by then so strange and exceptionally kept firmly in
check, and as well as the natives never quite deep the seriousness
of a solemn hour, feels he jumped back in no time every day in his
life.

"Here Maïre, sounded far and away with us," the joyful sound - "Come
down to Guiavenbach; deeply hidden in bushes and foliage as we dance.

Today, seeing the Mitonares not, because large Food is always when they prayed for a while.
"

"But the others talk," said the sister, looking up Maïre ​​undecided, "and later Maïre ​​poor;
father Au-e has been promised me as hell, and he sent me into g'rad, he would find me. "

"Bah - bah - bah," laughed the other, and shook his head - as "here and here" - to mouth and
heart showing - "that is religious, which religion and that is enough - Everything Else but is
free, Maire, and soon girls now, because we miss the fun "- and like a few. scared deer fled
the two, now followed by many others, only one side in the orange grove, and then exposed
behind the gardens away not the view of some "churchgoers" could be to take the scandal and betrayed
the happy. - And how it sounded and sang and hummed and buzzed in the trees and palms - happy
life there was in the fragrant shade of orange and Guiava and the sound of the flute joined
in laughing Girls' voices, the teased and chased on the plan, mimicking
the sermon and speeches of the day and then suddenly invaded the often
very graceful but yet often almost indecent positions of their dances
Upepehe ~ ~ ~ ~ and ~ oris mamua ~.

Over there the wide, semi-open space in front of the long-oval bamboo bird cage-like building
seems to be the center of the whole district to be, here at least there is the liveliest most
unrestrained Life, and the dark blumendurchflochtenen curls, and often the smooth shaven, but
with colorful wreaths almost covered heads of the native girls mix colorful and busy ribbons fluttering
through the straw hats of the sailors, in their most broad black silk with golden letters bore
the name of their ship, and they as a people of a warship testified
that had not been also the broad white collar shirt with narrow blue
Strip done about it.

"Hey George, this is a main square here for a" go to shore day, "cried an old, weather-tanned
A young sailor lad, who embraced one of the girls with his left arm
and a half-empty bottle in his right hand held, and tried to force
the girl laughing to drink - "will not help your time, my boy, who
knows how soon meet again so well."

"Weather girl," cried the young fellow, "she is like quicksilver in the hands, you can not hold
- you'll drink? "

"~ Aita, Aita ~ screamed but the defiant beauty, and defended him from resolved;!" Shame on
the poison that you pour into you until your lying there like cattle,
and the staring eyes can not close - away with that stuff, "and tearing
him the bottle out of hand! they threw the same before he could stop
it, by far saucy throw away from him in a Thicket of young Brodfruchtbäumen
and bananas.

"The devil, girl," cried the sailor of the last words of the brown
child no Syllable had understood and now nachwollte surprised his
bottle, "the stuff is expensive Papetee here and not even so easy
to get.

"

"Hahahaha," laughed the girl and held him - "if you can get it, get it."

"Stop him, stop him," laughed and others came running up to seize the prey and to save the expiring
Brandy, but too late, and swearing they lifted the empty bottle to the light.

"~ ~ Damn it," cried the one who they had captured, and the first the sad discovery made - "not
a drop left over" and that it would not even know his own Eyes at such an important cause trust,
he raised the empty bottle still on the lips, to examine train, she
threw it right but with a core curse as hard as he could against the
next Brodfruchtbaum that it shattering into pieces splashed around.

But this should he got sick.

"~ You ~ Tam," screamed an old, portly islander, a burning piece of red calico around his waist
and another around her shoulders and wore a long enough wrong with Sailor have liked to think
of their favorite cry or curse - "~ ~ tam you, you dirty White - because you carry ten times
the skin under your feet, you throw around the glass, as it Mandrel
and shell breakage cuts in our soles - you ~ ~ tam, I say again, and
the Day be cursed, who brought you first on this coast!

"

The old woman did not remain in this unsupported, because of all sides came up the girls, cursed
and reviled in their own language and it began the dangerous glass shards, them already cut some
nasty wound to visit from the floor. In vain they called the sailors back and added finally,
as prayers were useless as threats, laughing the inevitable, himself the cheerful, lively crowd
and beizustehn to help and Evil to raise as much as possible - to visit all the points that is
threatening or To remove and no leaf remained awkward here, under
which even had the treacherous tip may harbor.

"Hurrah, my boys! Who of you has lost his prize money as in the leaves? - Fifty-fifty if I
think it's, "cried a rough voice at this moment between laughter and fury of the lively crowd in,
and sat up quickly One of the sailors up to see who the Newcomer
was, and whether perhaps an old friend and shipmate here between they
show up.

"Hello, comrade," grumbled but when he saw a completely strange face in front of him, which
he but still quite friendly towards nodded, and its owner is as comfortable
and without another invitation to them throwing the grass, as if he
was one of their "people" - "~ where do ~ you hail from?

"[A]

The speaker was the boatswain of the "Joan of Arc ~ ~," the outside of the bay in front of her anchor
rode and had gotten his team holiday today, because of the large public meeting. He seemed to also
be considered almost as a kind of authority between the other Sailors, and besides, justified
the whole exterior of the new arrivals, our old friend Jim of the Irishman, but such a question,
because the old sailor came over against him, almost involuntarily, as if he had anything to do with
the right Sailor, and yet had but again the detail of his suit seen nothing to justify such a suspicion
liked. The blue jacket like the white linen trousers had the right cut, with the oil-cloth coated
straw hat sitting behind him on the curly hair and a few broad stripes black silk Volume fell
to him right way forward over the left eye down and yet there was a certain Something in the whole
conduct of the foreign, the old fellow who, some long, long Year on the lake and all the countries
grappling ships, as a kind of instinct came over, he born here had no seaman on, and the guy at
the end did sail under false Flag.

The real sailor - not the one who chooses the lake once a time to his profession, a Some travel
may make, and then again years at the continent remains - has something in his whole being, that
is impossible to acquire if it is not just natural from the whole system of our body comes out and
buy one with it. The main point here is the most swinging and yet again firm and elastic response
of the constant movement the ship since he must of course meet constantly, and those who then
forces to put the legs a little further, though almost imperceptibly, from one another, to that
on the mainland would be necessary, the arms hang it, as if drawn by its own weight, degree
the body down, but without him, neither left nor right to touch in three inches, and the semi-hard
open hand looks just like as if every gripping moment of sailing or dew may. The farmer can all imitate
others, this wearing of the body is never succeed, and only a year-long exercise is able to
make ready for him, or, as the sailors say, to make it "~ ~ ship
shape."

"Well, Sirrah," said the Irishman finally laughing after the inquiring
gaze of the boatman, though not without a slight blush barely recognizable,
had endured a long while - "You will now probably know me if you see
me again, - how I liked you?"

"Not at all, comrade," but said the dry, and while he was chewing
his Primchen in the mouth from one cheek to the other changed, "Not
at all, if you know the truth .

Want to hear "

"Hahaha," laughed the Irishman, without in the least about it to feel
insulted, "damn me if that is not honest weggesprochen of the liver,
sorry I only does it matter to the point, that I share the same -
you also can not say.

"

expectant "Then I do my best, unfortunate for me that the prejudice with you to To destroy "the sailor
replied calmly.

"You're damn rough," cried the Irishman, who now seemed determined once now nothing to blame,
although the final construction of his whole body like a pretty determined Train around the mouth,
very well believe that he could otherwise make a real insult is not so easy would insert, "but
that does not matter, mate, we are already closer to each other be known and I'm like the wine
- I win by lying. And now your there, your girl, " he turned to this in their own language, "let
the damn search and is to be ago - tomorrow will find something you
have lost - the sweeping perhaps - Amiomio and where is it today?
fetch the executioner, the small weather witch, she always goes away
and comes Never again.

"

"~ ~ Naha-hio," cried as some of the girls who turned on the call, and surprised with each other
- "~ O-fa-na-ga ~ back here? - And where you have driven about Oro's wrath for so long? "

"~ O-fa-na-ga ~" they scoffed, but after the Irishman, "in Jäsus, my darling, you have the name
still do not learn to pronounce and translate my mother's son in
a strange way the Tahitian.

What would say ~ ~ ould O'Flannagan father when she called to him so tables have - ha, my ~ ~ namataruas,
you two inseparable star, are you even here? and where ~ ipo ~ Anoënoë, my slim girl of Bola-Bola,
the greatest great in your band?

"

"~ ~ Anoënoë has become pious" laughed one of the girls he namataruas ~ ~ for a twin stars that
zone called - they "no longer laughing and with no flowers in her hair and behind the ears. "

"Hahahaha," laughed the Irishman, "~ ~ Anoënoë pious and now it is good, this is excellent,
the is - hahahaha - that's the devil to shoot dead funny! "

The boatswain - a lean, strong, and even noble figure, with genuine French trains curly dark
beard and dark eyes, every inch a sailor, by the way the English language perfectly, had the
salutations of the stranger with the girls and women of the place, he knew all by name and
called it, in silence and watched with some surprise, but further into a word spoken, and seemed
just a little impatient, and with folded arms to expect the end of
this recognition scene.

He was wearing, despite the warm weather, its blautuchene dense with small bright buttons covered jacket,
with white stockings and cleanly waxed Shoes and snow-pure segeltuchenen
homemade wide trousers, the only proof of the Hips joined firmly and
conditions; the white shirt holding a black silk scarf with a sailor
knot loosely, and the slight fine Panama straw hat he was stuck and
defiantly more forward in the forehead, as it usually take care to
sailors usual.

Finally he did but the last time too long and he broke the other friendly Inquiries of the residents
not just as a matching:

"~ ~ I say stranger! - You seem to have anchored once before on coral
soil - Your physiognomy You owe confidentiality but not.

"

"The taste is different, mate," laughed the Irishman on the other hand, "and the one who loves
beer, Other milk soup, but you are right, I'm here at home, and if I do not just live here,
my road leads me often enough over - is it any wonder then, that
I neighbor's daughters know of.

"

"Oh your good your in-ge-le-se-chatter but now at last," cried one
of the girls jumping between the two men and seizing arms of the Irishman
- "come to me ~ O-fa-na-ga ~ - And turning your pockets at all, because
you have not yet entered the ground again without bring your Maïre
​​jewelry and rings to have, where is the ring of ~ ~ perú, which
you me as long as promised?

"

! »Maïre ​​cried the astonished Irishman considering it -" that's
Maïre? what is the weather because with You proceed girl, I know you
do not even know where are your curls?

"

"The Mitonare has the cut off," said Belle, half ashamed, half-satisfied.

"The Mitonare - and what the hell has the Mitonare to look in your hair, Sirrah?"

"You should be pious and great drive no more tricks," laughed Ate-Ate, her chin, uplifting and
light rotation.

! Nonsense, "cried the girl, -" that is only above ~ O-fa-na ga-~
- Do not be returning it - Where's the ring?

Bring it on! "

"And me too - me too," cried others, intrude on him, "he promised
me earrings - And I colored feathers from the East - and me a new
calico dress!

"

»Girl Back, back," cried the Irishman, laughing, the only trouble with the door on him one
Menden could keep off - "You were right, comrade, the physiognomy but doing here with the girls
not alone, and they tear one - weather girls you will give your rest - the rags from the body,
would also make it damn little conscience, a poor devil of a sailor plunder in its maiden Ansprung
on land in and let sit alone after and laugh. The brown skin goes so well on it like the white
one. "

"From what ship are you, comrade?" Now asked the boatman, "you probably sailed under its own Flag?
"

The Irishman smiled quietly to himself, shook his head and replied with a grin:

"This time you pass your shot, so flattering to the allusion might be; old England forever, I want to
blow no other colors at my gaff, have - even not the red, he sat with a half-mocking, half-mischievous
glance at the boatswain added - "For the way you can calm down, I tell you that I harpooner ~
am on board the English whale catcher, the ~ Kitty Clover, here for
their recovery Papetee is in, and even then will probably need some
time to lie to her recovery if her the Distinguished French government
to put anything in the way and find it necessary the stay even longer
permitted.

"

The boatswain suppressed with difficulty a curse on the ironic allusion
that his Corvette, which used to impresses the islanders, now, by
the English, their superior kept in check, nothing more to say and
had to command, but he thought better of it and the lips pressed together,
he only said gloomily:

"You probably thätet you with the French government
to keep on good terms - the good People in Papetee not yet know what
colors could be tomorrow fashion.

"

"Anyway, the black," smiled the Irishman, rubbing his hands - "at
least the black one.

Now determine the modes and the missionaries are dear, dear man, have sailors even so much
as if we were their brothers - even after all what we really are.

It sounds extremely edifying "Brother Jim O'Flannagan or brother."

"That they are not green are I can not blame them," growled the boatswain, "they have every reason
to do so because both our interests run directly against each other
straight.

So your one of the dirty wall-fishing vessels out there - you get your fish? "

"Yes, Mister."

"And what port are you last started?"

»Genirt's you, if you know it not?" The Irishman asked sarcastically.

! "Go to hell," the Frenchman growled between his teeth through - angry with the Boys admitted
as much and to have turned his back on him.

»Rrrrrrrrrr," boomed at that moment a rapid vortex so close to their ears, that the boat man
looked surprised then, smiling girl faces gazed at him but, wherever he looked, and One of
them had slung a real French drum, and beat out now with the clock hand finished their island
dance.

"All weather, Ate-Ate," said the alleged harpooner of Kitty Clover ~ ~, and looked for the girl
grasp, but which quickly jumped to the side and it warded off with the drum sticks - "You 're
probably become even good French girl and service against your former
lover - A singular means to take revenge on the faithless "!

!

»Back ~ O-fa-na-ga ~ back cried but this -" I, the number of false will not multiply, and it would
be madness now draw against them in the fight - they are like the Guiaven in the woods, and push everything
else to the ground - back white man! - But let the chatter here, we want to dance, and you bothering
us with your tongues chattering people. Da-da ~ ~ A! " as she named the man of the boat ~ ~ Jeanne
d'Arc after his ships not to pronounce - "There introduce yourself here, and now watch out, we try
to do the dance you taught us and Let's see if can. "And she began to bounce back with considerable
accuracy ~ Lord Howe beat hornpipe ~, the well-known sailors dance on the drum, the melody,
however, they to a clear, even bell-pure voice sang, and the girls flew to bring dance. The
Sounds but could not withstand the sailors, and against them antanzend stamped After the rapid
beats the lawn and waved and threw their hats in jubilant delight.

But the Europeans get tired soon, so the shade Brodfruchtbaum and his wide fingered leaves and
he stretched out the palm of her crown - the air is too hot for such pleasure, and panting threw them down
on the ground, however, they jumped round the native girl laughing and threw flowers and Bananenschaalen.

But
louder and wilder sounds the drum beating in the Ate-Ate abgelößt One of the natives and who
has found a second, the clock changes, laughing men, and girls' voices fall into a jubilant
chorus and the dancers have been heated hat and scarf stripped of heaving breast and burning
forehead and cooling air to enter. Densely arrayed crowd brought the audience from the neighborhood,
and throw half-naked girls hochgeschürzte is always to get into the wild dance. Hei as they fly
to and fro in great joy, with arms and knees in the incident infuriated clock, faster and
faster, with sparkling eyes and heaving chest, again and again, up and down in front of the drum
and the rejoicing of the admiring crowd, until they collapse exhausted, and others - wilder place
fill in the trampled grass abused.

Colorful dancers, colorful but almost the audience they are umstehn
now, and which, by have the tone of the instrument locked, arrived.

Apart from the tattooed to the teeth until old Indian, who with grim pleasure and shining eyes
already in his mind the old days revival sees with its festivals and dances - the beautiful, happy
time, before the black-clad Men with dark faces came and went into her sunny ground, is a worthy
Matron, who now seems to flower and flower in her hair already an abomination and displeasing
to the Lord, sighs and looks at the sky and often and often beaten look, the horrible again
happen before their eyes, following their priest pestilence and war
and revenge lightning predicts their God.

But she looks the dance, she stands and hesitates, and as they sighs and groans, dip into their
memories of earlier days when they themselves in the wild Throw out the ranks of the girls,
the most cheerful among those who rejoice, at the same sounds terrible, - where they met with
flying chest and sparkling eye the tapa of shoulders and hip, the flowers from the fluttering
curls pulled to throw it and the dancers - Jehovah stand with her, she folds her hands and runs
away scared the place, because under the colorful waving cotton shrugs
'and it trembles' it to her in the knees and feet, and the devil was
strong, and it attracted to the horror.

But into the midst between the rows and groups of outsiders are now
pushing back laughing and talking and joking with the dancers French
sailors and marines, her arm wrapped around the next, and the beat
of dance with singing and stomping feet supportive, and in the frenzy
of pleasure and joy to the careless driving here in the middle band
between the people around the mouths of his guns, however, even on
poor bamboo huts are addressed and it can ignite the bloody fighting
chance.

But what cares the boys, and the day is theirs, in the fragrant forest, the wild lovely girl band
at their side, what they provide as to the next. - And if now, sounded at that moment the alarm
drum? - So it's not impossible, for the boatman listened once already
and scared to quickly - but bah, it's the new call to Re-start of
pleasure, and great and frenzied than ever throw themselves into the
tireless in the dance.

The boatswain contremaître ~ or ~ the ~ ~
Jeanne d'Arc and the Irishman Jim had retired the dance and the Frenchman
was standing alone on the trunk of a leaning, looking Brodfruchtbaums
with folded arms the wild games.

Jim was in his presence, and just
about to reach out to him, and again a conversation with him To follow
up as he felt picked on her arm and quickly looking around a foreign
sailors saw him gently waved him to follow, and then slowly, and seemingly
purposeless a small Guiavendickicht zuschlenderte that here the not
far from there flowing past Bach limited. 

"You? - Married, "the friend said in astonishment -" and with whom?
- Where? - When "

"First, I show you my little woman," smiled René, "I need perhaps only of one convincing evidence,
find out that you are wrong, then I'll tell you my - CV I can hardly say, rather my adventure,
because fate has me in a great game wantonly deprived me another one to throw into the arms
until my swaying skiff the port was that brought him happiness and
peace, and I do not leave again.

I know the storms raging outside and am tired of them again and again
to the teeth.

"

"And your wife?" Bertrand asked, "why they do not want to get back with you?"

The trumpets blared at this moment the beginning of the dance, and
Rene looked around by Sadie.

Already swirling over the couple and the young woman was standing on the other side of the room,
or near Aumama, at her side but now Monsieur Brouard, his right arm, tries from which they sought
to free themselves quietly to her waist down, and apparently to compel
them to dance, which she refused him.

Like a stab, it flashed through René's heart - he did not know why
shot, and the blood him in the temple, but Bertrand, who had followed
his gaze, looked surprised, and how detected by a sudden thought of
him.

"And your wife?" He repeated softly.

"You see them over there not as coy," René laughed now, his hand on his friend Armpit legend.

"The islander?"

Cried the officer, almost as frightened, and so loud that his next Couples to glance around him,
and even anxious to Sadie Rene looked over.

"The missionaries you put something in the feet," René went, as if in apology to the friend turned
away, "but - you do not like it?"

"It's a dear, sweet child," said the young man, suddenly becoming very quiet and serious -
"So sweet and beautiful as the sunny skies of their native land."

"And why do you sigh because so hard?" Laughed René.

"But why do not you release it from the old dude, who teases and torments there?" Said Bertrand quickly
- she "has it been cut off ten times the dance, and he does not always by - he would not be
subject to the case of a white lady. "

"You're right," René said quickly, and took a step forward, but suddenly
sat slowly and smiling added, "It's one of my friends and Sadie knows,
as the somewhat puritanical Spirit, which they sometimes even by our
customs and traditions as something of their own religion shrink resistive,
can.

But come Bertrand, we can look the company not long escape, Madame Belard over there - ha who is that
young lady there with Your captain now dancing? - I have not seen in Tahiti. "

She's coming from the south side of the island, as I heard today,
"replied Bertrand," where they lived in the family of a French settled
there. - But your wife beckons you over there.

"

"Monsieur Brouard is intrusive, it seems to me," said Rene with a
half-mocking Smile, biting her lower lip - "Come with me, Bertrand,
and I'll show my wife," and the arms of a friend collectively, he
went with him, avoiding the dancers to the other side across the hall,
where he Sadie, now seriously freeing herself from the old man, quickly
to meet him.

"Your little wife is terribly brittle," cried Monsieur Brouard here with a slightly embarrassed wants
"she on no account dance with me the first waltz" - contrary to smile.

Sadie

looked imploringly up at her husband, and René, her arm in his, drawing a smile said, something
cold with a slight bow to Mr. Brouard:

"I've kept until now irresistible, Monsieur, pardon the still raw Taste of the islander who
even your unceasing efforts in relation to their right to looked real. I had already engagirt
the first dance before. "

"Ah, then I ask your forgiveness a thousand times," the businessman
said, embarrassed, but also pikirt least the somewhat short clearance
retiring, while René, without further to care for Mr Brouard, Sadie
took her hand and with sincere words her childhood friend as his dear,
good wife, Sadie now presented as his.

"To you both I tell afterwards of each other," he then added, laughing,
"and now Sadie, you are allowed to not make me as Brouard - not true
I do not get a basket when I Now to the waltz, please?

"

"But René said, bending low to him, and the high blushing young woman," is what Mr. Nelson,
Mr. Dennis say when they learn that I danced here - I do it well not right about that, and I
want you but also much less painful to do, with a refusal. "

"Folly, Sadie, we have not combined the dances of my country in front of Mr. Osborne's eyes
danced on Atiu? "asked Rene, with a faint reproach in the tone of voice.

"On Atiu," repeated the word softly, Sadie called love love pictures alive in her soul - "On
Atiu!"

"The old man had his pleasure, if we were happy."

"But Mr. Dennis," Sadie said shyly.

René frowned and looked for a moment gloomily down before him, but
put Sadie her hand on his arm and looked at him with her heartfelt
pleading look in the eye.

He looked up at her, half the smile looked in her face, and quickly looping his arm around her, He
flew with her from the past often and like to dance then trained in the ranks of the happy
swinging Couples.

Sadie danced with infinite grace and lightness, but her heart was
not at the party; in her chest heaved and stabbed it with a reproachful
voice and tormented the poor innocent Heart with sad, fearful images.

"You are sinning now," she said softly and over and time and again, and the venerable brother
Dennis's voice sounded it continually in their Ear - "did you give the wild sinful dance,
and the evil enemy has been digging for the arm, where he commanded
the little finger in joy and levity.

"

"To think what you Sadie?" She whispered to René, as he whirled on her, and, within its Arm flew
away, while the native women especially, Sadie admiringly light punch followed with his eyes.

Sadie
shook slightly and blushing with the head, and forced himself to
be happy, but the warning voice in her grew stronger and stronger,
and as she leaned dizzily at last to René's shoulder and asked him
to lead them to a chair.

"You can tolerate the rapid turning or not," laughed the young man escorting her to go there where
Bertrand stood with folded arms, and had used no eye until now the pair - "only until a few dances
but you cheerfully turned in a circle, and the vertigo loses itself by itself. It is about a
kind of seasickness are probably the most people need.

"

"Ah Monsieur Delavigne - here, if you please, for just a moment, exclaimed
in this Moment the cheerful voice of the Mad Belard, who beckoned
him kindly and urgently her to come back.

Sadie therefore handing his friend, he was appointed.

"Monsieur," he cried, the lively little woman already receive from afar, "I told you a very pleasant
news to communicate, over there, and I will, however, the concern for Make your little woman
is a young lady the moment can not expect your to get acquainted,
and after all your relationships in the most precise and Has asked
embarrassing.

As far as I advise you to protect your heart. "

"You're too kind, Madame," laughed René, "if that is really so, the matter appears in the That
to be dangerous. "

"She warned not spotting ahead of time," Madame Belard - "You can
get it with any ordinary to do girl, and will have to keep a pair
of eyes, which have stronger hearts died when a young Frenchman, carelessly
are likely to be around with his chest bears.

"

"And the lady?"

"Wait, over there they still speak with Madame Choupin, the stepmother of Brouard Woman I would
not like to walk in his hands. "

? "The young lady there called" René quickly, "ah, I've noticed it before: it comes from Papara,
if I mistake not.

"

"All this she will impart the same yourself, monsieur, but to tell the truth," continued she
added mischievously, "I myself am curious about what interests them in such a striking manner can
take you. You must still be foreign to her. "

"Sympathy," René laughed, "but it's dear to me that just such a lovely
creature is For me interested.

"

"They should have to on behalf of Madame Choupin" - Mad Belard, René's arm and said moving
looking up with a funny mixture of apprehension and glee to him.

"To the Holy Virgin will, ma'am," but said René quickly and with strange fear, "already The idea
is cruel - or - treat me my happiness is not "?

Treat '? what do you mean, sir, - or how do you even know that you happiness is imminent? idle men
folk; your lords of creation will but here on the Islands very much spoiled, and had I known
earlier what I know now, never in my life I would have given my consent
to a move to Tahiti.

"

"Here comes Mad Choupin," René said softly, and Madame Belard was
startled and turned quickly starting to leave the place when she saw
the mischievous smile on René's lips, and now turning round looked
like Mad Choupin taken the other direction, and the young lady in
had abandoned talks with Mad Brouard.

Madame Belard threatened him smiling with his finger and said softly:

"If you knew that old dragon detail you would give me absolutely right, and it I fear, however - the
air is clean, come, for I have also to my other guests troubling,
and I have not time here to talk for hours with you.

" - And, seizing his hand she led him to the place where the young stranger with Madame Brouard,
was apparently in deep conversation, but retained very little time
for the first words, "Monsieur Delavigne, Miss Susan Lewis, "as the
instruments and started anew on the Pairs for Française hired.

All the better, in the dance you will be faster with each other known, "cried the little cheerful
woman, stepping back from the pair, "but there also will my dancers,
~ ~ Monsieur le capitaine, and I must leave you now for your destiny,
but - to our meeting Monsieur, the resolution of this enigma wish
I can not come.

"And without further two young People to allow an answer, she went with her to the now Captain's
arm reaching for Dance to, and Delavigne could also do nothing else but the beautiful stranger's
arm , They also offer a friendly nod and a mischievous smile own
the process of adopting.

The first few minutes went so over the arrangement of the dance, though
he was in the state word would be a switch to continue with his handsome
stranger, but the first opportunity which offered itself to him moving,
he said softly:

"Madame Belard had me by some friendly, but in any
case only in teasing and ridicule jotted words encouraged to believe
that you, my lady, I wanted to get to know; I do not know what I would
deserve such a blessing - "

"You do not know yet whether this will be lucky for you, Monsieur," laughed the Beautiful mischievous,
and Rene looked really surprised at her, because had the same words
Madame Belard shortly before its needed, and the two ladies were together
in concert be? - But why? -

"It is certainly already looking into
those beautiful eyes fortunate to be allowed," he said, however, rapidly
gathering - "and since evil can not truly happen."

"Do you have a good conscience?" Asked the young lady.

René laughed - "Yes and no, if you want, not to take serious, as we
mortals in general and on average, and not easily enough to worry
about, that my heart davonflöge overnight.

"

You're a runaway sailor, "the young lady said, now laughing, watching teasing on it. René blushed, but
as his story of how he entered the islands, Tahiti was not a secret,
he said quietly:

"If one has already tried to get me to show you
the worst side?"

"Whether you have tried?" Laughed the Beautiful, "You may judge for yourself. However, I am with
Case interested in more detail than you might think. - You are my
prisoner "

"At the mercy," laughed René, like the light tone of the really beautiful girl detail, the stimuli
are only now as it seemed, by degrees his eyes were visible.

But thousand of these prisoners, you have probably already done this
kind, and we will therefore also probably have to lay on our word
of honor to follow your chariot apparently free.

"

"On parole? - Do not be a reckless promise, before you know who '?

"Who?"

Said René surprised, but their conversation was here interrupted by the dance of the Couples
before called and separated, and it offered no opportunity again
from now on only a word to go on until the Française was over.

René was now his partner Arm, and she leads down the hall, he said, asking:

solve "And now, my lady, riddle me that - you wear a mask, put hand
them to air it, and pull back playfully.

Your mirror will tell already that The Almighty will put a tremendous charm in the eyes of us poor
mortals; abuse The power not given to you so - you do not need the ".

"A whale catcher but is not the place to learn to truly flattering," laughed the Nice loud, "and
yet it almost seems as if you even there a substantial portion Had
used their time not to come out of practice.

Or do you have all this already profited again here in the islands?

"

"My lady," asked the young man

"You're right," the girl said suddenly becoming serious, "it is time that we our respective positions
are taking us toll, so once again sir, you are my prisoner, René Delavigne! "

"With all my heart."

"Hold on - not for me about, Monsieur, but for my father, Jonathan
Lewis, Captain the three-masted whale catcher ~ "the Delaware," ~
well gekupfertes ship first class A, and now - "

"Miss Lewis? - But how is that possible, "she interrupted René in
full, unlimited astonishment?.

"Currently driving" but the beautiful wanton girl continued gravely, "and probably with God's
help before you leave home in Bedford, returned from his crusade. "

"But you, a French woman, through and through the old Yankee captain's
daughter?"

Said Rene, still incredulous.

"Refuse to you to obey me, because I lack the written warrant?" Asked Miss Susan.

"You are cruel, miss."

"Well, then, I will redeem you with two words, the seemingly inexplicable
enigma.

First, I'm not French, but born in New York state in North America, but in my early deprived
mother sent me through the death of the father - like me will testify,
a somewhat down to Louisiana, where his sister to a French planter
- rough sailor was married.

Is that clear now? "

"Yes, but now?"
"But now? ? Ah, I just come here, "laughed the Virgin -" You ask
so in fact, my credentials? Is that something ungallant, I want it
but the extraordinary Also hold good. Frail health, and the swamps
of Louisiana's real Threats to my life threatened, it seemed as if
I offer no relief for the rough North should, for there back up, my
evil worse rather than that it is had lifted. The doctors there prescribed
me therefore a change of air after some milder but also healthy tropical
climate, and my father, then just about to equipped fishing boat to
the Wall, sent me with a childhood friend to be ahead of Tahiti, I
visit here again later, and perhaps pick up. "

"And was the Delaware
here?"

"Not true you interested?" Laughed Susan.

"The Delaware,
however, interested me," smiled René, "and you will do me the reason
dispute do. "

"Not I, sir - you have good cause, but I give you my
word that Delaware interested by that time for you, "continued Susan,"
because my father just landed in Tahiti, when they were sprung from
him, and therefore hastened back especially from here gone, "the 'sailors
sprung, as he told me on that island again," fetch ". Who would have
told me then that I should be so lucky to catch him again. "

"Why
were not previously on board," said Rene, "I would never run away."

'Wedding'
Someone you men, "said Susan defensively -" on no firm land, and with
no Syllable more remembering all those sacred bonds which the fugitives
at any rate in the old fatherland handcuffed, he has to do nothing
more important than the example of his countrymen to follow, and to
wheedle a poor girl he duration of his stay here the time markets.
"

"You do me wrong, Mademoiselle."

"Oh? - You are always well made
Contrakte holy "?

René bit his lips and said, after small pause:

"So
they blame me that I was the life on board a whale-catcher, which
I do not otherwise would have missed, perhaps for years, can have
removed by flight. "

"No," said Susan, laughing, and the big black
soulful eyes picking up to meet him them for a moment his gaze, and
then slid as scrutinizing and with barely suppressed playfulness on
his suit down - "I just do not understand," she continued the process
of "how you ever the unfortunate Thoughts could have taken to board. This gentleman
- you could see clearly - almost froze at the words of the servant returned, but at last according
to the man, who wished to speak to him, and waved then, strictly defensive, against the heater
and for safety, even against the servant. The servant went out to Heater back and said in a
tone as he trusted him of something: "Scissors is immediately out of the room! "

The fireman looked down to this answer to Karl, as this was his heart, he silently his lamentations.
Without further reflection is freed Karl, ran across the room, that he even slightly to the
chair of the officer touched the servant ran to embrace with bent prepare arms as he chasing a pest,
but Charles was the first at the table of the chief cashier, where he was holding, in the event
that the servant should try him move away.

Of course, like the whole room came alive. The ship's officer at the table jumped up, the gentlemen
of the Port Authority saw quiet but carefully, the two men at the window were entered next
to each other, the servant, who thought he was there, where even the high Men showed interest,
not out of place, resigned. The heater at the door waiting tense at the moment, until his
help was needed.

The chief purser was finally in his armchair, a large right turn.

Karl rummaged in his secret pocket, which he shows to the eyes of these people have no concerns
had produced his passport, which he laid open instead of further idea on the table. The chief
cashier seemed to hold the passport as secondary, as he flicked it
with two Fingers aside, what Karl is, as this formality completed
to the satisfaction of the pass again pocketed.

"I allow myself to say," he began, "that I believe the Lord heater wrong done so. There is a
certain Schubal which it sits. He has already many ships, which he can give you all served in
full satisfaction, is hard-working, it means well with his work, and it is not really clear why he just on
this ship, but where is the service is not so overly difficult, such as sailors on trade, should
correspond to bad. It can therefore only be slander him in his progress hindrance and it brings
to the acknowledgment that it would not otherwise be missing for sure. I have only the general
said about the matter, its specific symptoms, he will itself. say, "Karl had turned this speech
to all men, because yes indeed all listened and it seemed more likely that among all together is just,
were there, as if that justice be just the chief cashier. From cunning had also Karl denied that he
knew the heater only a short time. Otherwise he could have been much better to speak when he
is not led astray by the red face of the Lord with bamboo sticks would have been that he saw from
its present location for the first time.

"It's all word for word is correct," said the fireman, asked him before anyone else, even before
had been executed, nor even to see him. This hasty nature of the heater would be a great Errors have
been if not the Lord with the medals, which, as it lit up now Karl, at least The captain was obviously
would have agreed with him already, listening to the heater. He stretched namely the hand and
shouted to the fireman: "Come here," with one voice, firm, with about to strike a hammer. Now
everything depended on the behavior from the heater, because what
the Justice of his cause arrived at the no doubt Karl.

Fortunately, on this occasion was that the heater a lot in the world had been around. Exemplary
calmly he took from his suitcase with a handle to the first Bundle of papers and a notebook, went
so as to understand the saying under complete neglect of the chief purser, the captain, and spread
on the sill his evidence from. The chief cashier was nothing for it but hinzubemühn themselves.
"The Man is a known troublemaker, "he said in explanation," he's more in cash than in the Engine
room. He has Schubal, this quiet man, quite to despair. Listen Once, "he turned to the fireman,"
You push your importunity yet been really too far. How many times were you kicked out already
in the payment space, as you would with Earn your whole, complete and without exception unjustified
claims! How often are You come from there went to the main ticket office! How many times have
you told you in the good that Schubal is your immediate superior, with only yourself to see as his subordinate
have! And now you come forth even more if the Lord is ashamed as captain, is not even harass
him, but entblöden not even as a learned vocal leader, bring your absurd accusations these
little ones that I ever, for the first to see the ship! "

Karl talked to force back skip forward. But already the captain was there, which said, "we hear
the man but once. The Schubal me anyway is a lot of time to independently, so I will have nothing
to say in your favor. "The latter was the Heater, it was only natural that he could not immediately
use for him, but all appeared on the right track. The heater began his comments and overcame
the same at the beginning, when he dubbed the Schubal with "Lord". Karl was delighted at how
deserted Desk of the chief cashier, where he held a letter Wage always oppressed with pleasure.
- Mr Schubal is unfair! Mr. Schubal preferred the foreigners! Mr. Schubal referred the Heater from the
engine room and had him clean the toilets, which surely is not the heater Thing was! - Once
even the efficiency of the Lord Schubal was in dispute, the more apparent should be as really
there. Karl stared at this point with all the force of the master to, emulate, as he was his colleague,
only that he is the somewhat clumsy expression the heater will not let influence its detriment.
After all, it was learned from the many Not really talk, and although the captain still looked right
in the eyes determination, the heater time to listen to an end, but the others were Men's impatient,
and the voice of the heater reigned soon no longer absolute in the Space, which many had feared.
The first of the Lord was in his civil bamboo sticks into action and beat, albeit quietly,
on the floor. The other men saw course here and there out of the masters of the port authority,
who were apparently attacked hurry, again to the file and began, though still somewhat absent-minded,
they look through the ship's officer moved closer to his table again, and the chief cashier to have
the match won believed sighed deeply on out of irony. From the generally occurring distraction
seemed only the servant maintains the standard of sympathizing with the sufferings of the Great asked
the poor man's part and Karl nodded seriously as if he wanted to explain something.

Meanwhile, continued at the windows of harbor life, a flat barge with a mountain of barrels, which
had to be stowed wonderful that they did not come rolling pulled
over, and produced in a room almost dark, small motor boats that Karl
now, if he has time would have been, just had to watch rustled by
the twitching of the hands of a driving upright man straight away;
peculiar float appeared here and as independent from the restless
water, were flooded again, and sank before the astonished gaze, the
ocean liner boats were rowed forward from hot-working sailors and
were full of passengers therein, so had just squeezed it, silent and
expectant sat, though it omitted some could not, heads to the changing
scenes to rotate.

A movement without end, a restlessness, transferred from the unsettled element to the helpless
people and their works!

But all urged to hurry, for clarity, to very precise detail, but what did the Heater! He talked himself
into a sweat, however, the papers on the window he could no longer keep up with his trembling
hands, not more, from all directions it flows complaints Schubal on to have enough of that in
his opinion, each individual, this completely Schubal bury, but he could show the captain was just
a sad mess swirls all total. Long been whistled the man with the bamboo sticks up slightly toward the ceiling,
the gentlemen of the Port Authority has held the officer at her table and gave no Look, let it
go ever again, the chief cashier was clearly only through the rest of the master before the three
driving retained, the servant waiting at attention position at any
moment one related to the heater command of his master.

Since Karl could not remain idle. So he went slowly back to the group and considered while walking
only faster, he could attack the cause of the experiments. It was really high time, even for a little
while only, and they could very well both from the Bureau fly. The captain did so and also be a good
man right now, as it Karl seemed to have any one particular reason, to show himself as a fair
boss, but eventually he was no instrument that could play into the ground - and just treated
give him the heater, but out of his boundless revolt within.

Karl said so to the heater: "You must tell the simple, clear, the
captain may not appreciate it, just as you tell him.

Does he have all the Machinists and errand boy by name or even the Christian names that he, when
you say only one such name, the same can know who it is? Assign but your symptoms, you say
the most important First and descending the other, maybe there is then no longer be necessary
most of even mentioning. I have always shown it yet so clear, "If you can steal American case,
one may also lie here and there, he thought the apology.

But only if it had helped! Whether it's not already too late?

The heater broke Although as soon as he heard the familiar voice, but with his eyes, the tears
of all the injured man's honor, the terrible memories, the current extreme distress were hidden,
he could not even recognize Karl already well anymore. How should he now - Karl saw the silence
before the now silent probably a - how should he suddenly change his manner of speaking, since
he still seemed as if he had anything that was to say, without the slightest recognition already
put forward and as he had said nothing at the other but the men could not now expect, nor anything
to listen. And in such a time nor is Charles, his only followers,
therefore, will give him good advice, but it shows instead that everything,
everything is lost.

"If I had come sooner, rather than looking out the window," said Karl is lowered before the
Heater face and put his hands to his sides as a sign of the end of all hope.

But the heater misunderstood that smelled good in any secret charges against Karl , and the good
intention, they talk him out, he began to crown his deeds with Karl to argue now. Now that
the men at the round table but already outraged over the useless Were noise, which disturbed their
important work in the Chief Cashier gradually the patience of the Captain was incomprehensible
and tended to the immediate outbreak, where the servant, the very
back in the sphere of his masters, the heater with wild eyes measured,
and where, finally, with the Lord the bamboo sticks, to which even
the captain looked over here and there a friendly, already completely
blunted against the heater, so disgusted by it, pulled out a small
notebook and obviously very busy with other matters, the eyes between
the notebook and Karl-out thrash around and left.

"I know, I know," said Karl, who had trouble against him now, the surge swept to ward off the
heater, but still across all conflict nor a smile for friends had left him, "You are right, right,
I've never doubted it." He would have liked for fear of beatings around the moving hands held, however,
still prefer him in a Angle forced to whisper some soft soothing words that no one else would
need to hear. But the heater was out of control. Karl started now even from the ideas to draw
a kind of consolation that the heater in an emergency with the force of his despair could
conquer all seven men present. However, lay on the desk, like a Look there, taught an essay with
too many snaps of the electric line and a hand pressed to simply as she could, the whole ship
with all of its enemy-filled corridors to make people rebel.

As the Lord walked yet so disinterested with the bamboo sticks on Karl and did not ask loudly,
but well above all shouts of the heater, "What is your name really"? At that moment, as if
someone had been waiting behind the door to this expression of the Lord, beat it. The servant
looked over to the captain, who nodded. Therefore, the servant went to the door and opened it.
Outside, an old imperial Rock was a man of medium proportions, his appearance is not really suitable
for work on the machines and had yet - Schubal. If Karl would not have known it to all eyes
that expressed a certain satisfaction from even the captain was free, he would see to his horror
at the heater scheme, the clenched fists of the streamlined arms as if these the most important
urban to him, which he had to sacrifice everything he had to life, ready. Now that all stuck
his Force, even those who received it at all maintained.

And since then, was the enemy, free and fixed fresh in the suit, under his arm a business book,
probably the payroll and work passes of the heater, and saw the concession without fear, that
he would determine the mood of everyone especially after all eyes in the series. The seven were
already all his friends, for although the captain before certain objections had against him
or maybe just had pretended, for the suffering of his heater had done, he seemed likely to Schubal
also the least no longer stay. For a man, as the heater, it could not proceed strictly enough, and
if the Schubal something was to blame, it was the fact that he was the recalcitrance of the
heater during time not so far been able to break that it had yet dared this today, before
the appear to be captain.

Well yes you could maybe take the opposite position of the heater
and Schubal will not miss the higher their rightful effect even before
a forum for people, because if the move could also Schubal well, but
he was not quite up to the End can endure.

A brief flash of his wickedness should be enough to bring it into make men visible, but was eager see to
that. He knew it already passing the Ingenuity, the weak, the whims of individual men, and
was from this point the time spent here so far is not lost. If only the heaters have been better
on the court would be, but he seemed completely incapable of fighting. If you had him put off the
Schubal, He probably would have hated the skull may crack open with his fists. But even the few
steps to go to him, he was hardly able. Why was Charles so-slightly Foreseeable not foresee that
Schubal had come at last, if not of its own Drive, so the captain called. Why he had on the way
here with the heater is not an accurate War plan discussed, instead, as they had done in fact,
hopelessly unprepared Simply enter there, where a door was? The heater could talk at all, yes
and no , Say as in the cross-examination, which was before but only
at best, necessary would it be?

He stood with his legs set apart, knees slightly bent, his head slightly raised and the air
upside down through the open mouth, as if there were no inside lungs more that they processed.

Karl,
however, felt so strong and sane, as he may never home had been. If it still could see his
parents, he in a foreign country, in prestigious Personalities championed the good and if he
had not yet brought to victory then at least the last conquest perfectly willing put! Would you
their opinion on revise it? Set it down between himself and praise? He once again in the them
so devoted eyes see? Unsafe and inappropriate questions ester moment to ask them!

"I come because I believe that I am accused of the heater of any improprieties. A girl from the
kitchen told me she had seen him on the way here. Captain and all of you gentlemen, I am ready,
any accusation at the hand of my writings if necessary, impartial and uninfluenced by statements
of witnesses at the door refute to stand. "So said Schubal. However, that was the clear words of
a man and after the change in the faces of the audience you might have thought they heard for
the first after a long time human sounds. They did not, however, that even this beautiful Speech
had holes. Why was the first substantive word that occurred to him, "dishonesty? Might have
been the charge used here must take place in his national biases? A girl from the kitchen had
seen the stoker on the way to the office and had Schubal immediately understood? Was it not
the sense of guilt, which he sharpened his mind?

And witnesses He had brought along and they have also called unbiased and unaffected? Ripoff,
nothing but ripoff! And the men tolerate this and it still recognized as a real Behavior?
 

This extensive friendship was also maintained lively. There is scarcely a letter that Luther receives
or writes, in which not even the wife Lara is greeted or greeting or congratulation and receives condolences
to all sorts of family events and changes of fortune and sends.

Very often content merely with Käthe not an empty word greeting, it also adds in her practical way,
some good advice from a warning or a prescription, a physic, a root
good for gallstones, etc.

Even more frequently, however, Ms. Kitty
to thank for all sorts of gifts.

And not least uses the Hospitable housewife friends from home economics to all sorts of jobs. This
went on Lauterbach so far that even Luther himself with such order says she would have the friend
formally put into service and fitting [400].

How to understand, the family friends were in a theological home so exceptionally well, almost
louder theologians. Secular only were the relatives: siblings, brothers-and sisters- some distinguished
Gevattersleute how the Chancellor Müller and Rühel in Mansfield, in the Goritz Leipzig, Hans
von Riedt ass and Hans von Taubenheim, land steward in Torgau, on which Käthe into the distance
and friendly respectful greetings, congratulations and invitations sent or even yourself once in
a letter - of course, a business letter - the swings open. Also, the Strasbourg General Counsel
sends his wife Käthe Gerbel thousand times. The Town Clerk Roth of Zwickau can bind a copy
of his sermons and pay for the doctor and sends a glass that matters "very fine". At last,
was an amiable noble family Joerger of the Oesterreichische Tollet, a mother with several children,
one which Luther Protestant chaplain had bought (1525) and gave all sorts of pastoral advice
which is now grateful proved in numerous and expensive gifts, "Hungarian Gulden", "Kütten-electuary"
and other "loyal and expensive gifts", she sent a scholarship of 500 florins for poor Fellows who are studying
in Scripture. Later studied also a grandson of Jörg Erin in Wittenberg. With this "Ehrenreich,
Jörg Erin Dorothea noble women as particularly good Friend, "were even exchanged numerous letters
and friendly, in which Luther's" house honor Mrs. Kate "often comes in greeting [401].

With the Protestant bishop of Naumburg, Nikolaus von Amsdorf, changed
Käthe respectful Regards, especially since she Zulsdorf by the possession
of the neighbor of the gracious Lord Bishop became (1542), including
a visit "threatens" them to "future summer".

Otherwise had one course with the unmarried and highly placed men less intimate relationships. But
worried he had once for 7 fl butter and dried cod to Luther House [402].

With the small M. Joh. Agricola, the pastor of Eisleben and his Elsie, was the Lutheran Family
from the start in a lively market. "She could also suffer very well."

He had heard early as 1523 to the circle of young Nuremberg, which the engagement Baumgarten with
Kate spoke out and is even now in active correspondence with Wittenberg [403]. There it gives
greetings to wife and children, over and over, and a fur coat from there is concern Women Lara fails
only too expensive, or small yellow plum and wild service trees are ordered, after which Mrs. Kitty
just get cravings. 1529 Agricola is loaded to Wittenberg. 1530 it sends the Diet of Augsburg Coburg
on a playful letter to the errand to Mrs. Kate, Luther wrote to him on: "I guess what they
will answer you. If they has read the letter, will they laugh and say: Oh, how is it a reason
Eisleben M. Schalk "[404] Luther took up Agrikolas than the moving and ambitious man no longer
in Eisleben liked. And when he quit his job in 1536 and in Wittenberg not equal a comfortable
apartment found, so he opened the convent house and Agricola moved with wife and child. Then, when Luther
at the beginning of 1537 moved to Schmalkalden, he confided Agricola not only "teaching, pulpit and
Church, "but also" woman, child, home and secrecy "[405]. But when one Agricola "Antinomians" (challenging
the validity of the law for Christians) was, was kindled Luther's anger against him, and he
withdrew the previously granted permission to lecture at Wittenberg to hold. Agrikolas woman, to
which Luther was entirely paternal, and he speaks to them with you, that although a prostration
before the doctor and he took her husband back to worship at (1538); Agricola but escaped the
influence of Luther, went to Berlin and his friendship with the "Master Grickel" heard, of course,
also for Mrs. Katherine, without being re-attached. Than later (1545) Agricola came with his wife
and daughter to Wittenberg, were merely the two women come to the monastery building, but the
daughter found the Lutheran vain and pert as her father [406].

By Rev. Jacob Probst in Bremen, a former monastery Luther comrades, including one Godfather was,
as the Lutheran family in earlier name. Family messages extensively reported, Lara and also
the small patch Margaretel regularly send greetings to the important
gossip and thank you for inspiration guilders and other gifts.

He recommended that parents her youngest to care, because they Probst choice for patching.
And "Mr. Kitty" commands her husband to ask even in jest, whether as the North Sea was dry, since
the have brought the Gospel permission to eating meat? For never have it in Wittenberg less,
where saltwater fish, so that already forced by famine to the meat meal will, if not about the fish
and the sea in front of the pope anger frightened after he was despised by land. On 14 June 1542
came Probst, now an old man, to Wittenberg To see his father, D. Martin again. This was an
even better unexpected visit and his wife Kate will make your stay very pleasant and the Margaretlein
the godfather happily welcomed him and have sung with her pretty little voice [407].

Traffic was less in the one with the former prior of the monastery Black Brisger Eberhard, Pastor
in Altenburg, but also exchanged greetings with him Käthe from [408].

A former monk (canon of the "Brothers of the Common Life") Gerhard
Viscampius to Herford was also a very good friend of the family of
Luther and Melanchthon, and they took warm interest in him.

In 1528 he sends to the Lutheran couple cloth and two lamps, which the two husbands every
night ever used. But he is also regularly Luther's writings obtained
[409].

The old striker and Butterflies "Twin D. Gabriel, Luther's monastery comrade of him on the Wartburg
with his iconoclasm to creating did was, after his radicalism abated, a quiet pastor become Torgau.
He had to free the nuns from Nimbschen participated, and several
came to Wittenberg, could also be a somewhat serious Kitty's procurement
contract for a linen box get [410].

The Reformer and preacher city of Gotha, Myconius, also the time of the "Wittenberg Concordia"
Luther stayed in the home, and received from Kitty greetings, congratulations, thanks for a "cheese-gift"
also of conduct against his wife and his participation in breast
disease [411].

A particular admirer of Mrs. Keller was the fine Strasbourg Capito
(Köpflin), which in 1536 with Butzer in Wittenberg, the "Concordia"
and some kilometers of the Saxon church existence and brought it home
in Luther wrong.

He leaves the "excellent wife Catherine greet von Bora, his landlady, "and sends her on his return
a gold ring as a Sign of his feelings towards her, "which is estimated rightly so high because,
with hausmütterlicher gentleness and assiduity of our supply teacher practices ". And Mrs Kitty
estimates the Strasbourg guest. Repeatedly he can greet her and promises her to Frankfurt Fair
1537 a letter. Capito asked for even with the other friends Gerbel Strasbourg, Butzer, etc
to help educate the son of Hans [412].

In Nuremberg, Luther and therefore its Katherine, all kinds of good friends, especially his two
brothers, Wenceslaus Link and Abbot Frederick (Becker, Pistorius),
which he much beautiful gift and equipment to watches, turning tool,
wood and copper engravings, fine fruit, Seeds from the rich free city
worried.

Also they can greet Lara [413].

In the imperial city but also lived their "old flame", as Luther writes, the councilman Jerome
Baumgärtner.

The old love for him had been made into a warm friendship, and it is a good sign even of a natural
and healthy feeling that both Luther as a woman Kathe throughout unbiased open way of this
loving reverence for the former Loved to talk over among themselves and the mutual friend: "It
greets you respectfully My Kitty, your old flame, which includes you if your virtues and benefits
with new love and with all your heart you do not. "Luther writes from Coburg on 1 October 1531
to Baum: "I greet you in the name of my mistress, your former flame, I'll tell her when I come
home. So I care too, in your name to tease. "As in 1543 by Luther his table-goers Besold received a
letter, he praised the letter writer moral purity, Piety and virtue. Since Luther's wife asked
"for their habit," because the clerk who the letter would be. Luther replied, "tuus ignis Amynthas.
Your old paramour (lover)" [414] The sound that this friend is over, giving us warm, especially
in the comfort letter Luther of Baum and his wife, as the Nuremberg merchant of the Knight Albrecht
von Rosenberg was (at Mergentheim) arrested and detained long, so that women with Sibylle their
five children uneducated more than a year for the life of her husband host hovered in fear. The
Wittenberg friends prayed in the church related to the release went out and the Landgrave of Hesse
about to [415].

Veit Dietrich was also in spite of his chip with Lara not only Luther's friend after his Leave
to Nuremberg, where he was pastor at St. Sebald's, but also with
Ms. Kitty turned back home soon a friendly attitude.

It can be repeated greet [416].

The free-Berger siblings Weller, "the recent Peter, composer Matthias
and especially the theologian Jerome, but his sister Barbara Lischner
were the Lutheran Couple in friendly relations.

One was erected in his melancholy to be supplied to the other, the nurse informed of the secret
reception of the Holy Supper [417]. Matthias Luther can thank the composer with his wife Katherine, for
his "good will has heart, bestowed upon it with the vocals and the Borsdorf. "The song sang
in the men Table, as well as she's might. "Let's make some pigs (males, error) among them,
so it is certainly Not your fault, but our art. If it's already all composers do well, then our
Ernst probably far over it and can sing's bad enough. We all follow the rule of the world, they
have very good reason, God and old compose and make things, but they sing, they would have a market
value vain sausages from the pigs or bobbin in the field bells [418]. Therefore you must composer's
credit us when we make sows in the songs. Because we would rather meet's because missing. Such
a joke asks, my Love Lara wollet, take her for good, and you can salute. Herewith God commanded.
1535th Priscilla-day. "[419]

Dr. Jerome Weller married at this time Freiberger girl, the daughter of G. on walkways. Of course
he should Käthe host the wedding in Wittenberg. But Mrs. Katherine was not in agreement, they knew
the big Unmuße and expenses, which a doctor must spend in a university
town: and here would benefit the bridegroom, as the high timer a doctor,
so many people would be invited; Weller should the list enclosed is,
watch once and then going to remember how much should be charged (even
if one Some might emphasize), unless you think of the wedding and
his family honor, especially since If the respected friends but had
to serve honorably.

This is extremely difficult. Also, cost there is more than £ 100 and Mrs Weller advised, therefore,
the actual wedding elsewhere and hold it up as M. Cruce and Dr. Bruck, namely with low support
to come to the university town, to a morning or dinner with two or three tables. Hopefully
was Dr. Jerome and his bride, so sensible and went on the matter. While the unmarried doctor at Luther
had lived, he moved with his young wife in a house in the neighborhood. Not long after, Weller became
a minister in his native town of Freiberg, where Prince George's brother Henry lived and joined
the gospel, but he remained in active Traffic in the Luther House [420].

According to Freiberg in 1538 and Nicholas M. Hausmann was appointed as pastor. He was one
of the oldest and best friends of the Lutheran House, a gentle, kind man and Bachelor. First
made in Zwickau (to 1532), he became chaplain at the three Prince pickup in Dessau (1532-38). The
acquaintance Kitty went with him through a delicate and painted laboriously woven baskets and beautiful
glass vessel, which house man himself and sent as a souvenir in the young and the budget had Kitty's
pleasure aroused (p. 96) [421]. From then on, sent the wife Käthe Zwickau town priest always
earnestly Greetings and is again greeted in the countless letters almost every week of the Wittenberg
Convent and the rectory Zwickau occasionally fly.

They recommended that in severe Times his prayer or thanks for Sent Chemnitzer lines, for which
he a load of Lutheran Writings by the package carrier is replaced [422]. Also "living letters"
went back and forth all manner of Friends and acquaintances, even Cordatus especially since
moved to Zwickau was initially 1529th [423] Frequent is invited home: his Stubella (little room)
was provided and prepared all - Still awaits a young woman Käthe earthlings. Several times came
home really all the way to Wittenberg [424].

In August 1531 went home away from the difficult Zwickau, remained in Wittenberg on. From the nearby
Dessau still a lot regerer traffic was possible. The first character was a wild boar that
came from the residence and by the friends of Luther Martin's house was eaten. When he gets sick, cares,
"Mr. Kitty" in constant even "stately Thoughts about the friend. " Yes, because it is so often sickly,
Luther wants to take it even to himself, that he enjoys the peace and quiet. Nicholas in 1538 but came
home as Superintendent after Freiberg, where his brother Valentin lived. Here he met at his inaugural
sermon on 3 November in the pulpit of the shock. The friends and the hostess Luther concealed
the death of his dear comrades, and brought him the news only gradually
at - he was sitting a whole Days and was crying, and Mrs. Kitty is
nachgeweint the faithful have their tears [425].

The former table Comrade Schlaginhaufen was in 1532 after Tusker, just two hours from Wittenberg, has
been set as a pastor, where he stayed with the Luther home in close contact, and as one of
the beloved Luther Medlars sent. But in the poor and the Health of the weak-man's little place he
thought it was beneficial for only one year. He was then pastor in Köthen and reformed this little
country. Then greets Mrs Katherine. He traveled accompanied by Schmalkalden, the sick back to Luther
Tambach, ran then with the news of his improvement after Schmalkalden and called out to the
windows at the hostel the legate up: Lutherus vivit! Lutherus vivit! (King is alive! Luther lives!)
[426].

With the rectory of Leisnig were Luther and his Kate in heavy traffic. Send in numerous letters
of greetings to their former comrades table M. Lauterbach and his or Hagnes Nise (Agnes) and
Elslein ("Lamb" and "lamb"), they give him to get all kinds, according to Ms Käthe a catechism
of a poor former nun, Christina v. Honsinger, now wife of Georg Schmid. The Bishop of Meissen
had resisted Lauterbach, because he was not consecrated would, because Lauterbach said to
the bishop's bailiff, "I am enough consecrated by my wife (For she was a nun) and husband and wife
is one body "[427].

Since the other priest in Leisnig not tolerated by Lauterbach, this twisted as deacon in Wittenberg,
where he was Lived 1536-39, and then as superintendent to Pirna to become Protestant Duchy of
Saxony to come. Luther at Wittenberg as a colleague he frequented a lot in the convent house,
his Wife was there more often and was once a theological question, a response at all fine. It
was sent them the same question, as to Mrs. Kate, if it were holy, and she said that she would sacred,
as much as they believed, would be a sinner if she were a man. Pirna Lauterbach has concerned
the stonework at the front door for Mrs. Katherine, vine poles continue several fur coats for girls,
also butter and apples, Borsdorf and other "red" of which then wife Katherine and activities
for the finishing order [428].

Georg Spalatin was soon after Luther's marriage came from the court service, had married and
had become next to M. Eberhard Brisger senior pastor of the Old Castle. Because this city pretty
shared repository, so was his old friend Luther only on special occasions of official nature
to Wittenberg, Luther also was so very full of longing for the friend he was handling, difficult
to come to Altenburg, not even the wedding Spalatin grounds that it is the escape had organized
the 13 nuns from Freiberg.

More frequently, however, sent to friends Letters and messengers, and the domestic incidents shared
with and thereby urges Käthe her husband for writing. "My rib" or "my lord Katie" Send Spalatin
and "his Rib "or" chain "(her name was also Catherine), his" doe "and their little greetings
and good wishes, wishes him a little "Spalatinlein that teach him what it prides itself on its
Hänslein to have learned, namely, the fruit and joy of the married state, that the Pope and
his World is not worth "[429]. Schmalkalden in the critically ill, Mrs Katherine Luther into
Altenburger bring rectory, where he stayed for several days. With gratitude and appreciation
it is for the "friendly amiability and kind experience," she experienced with her husband in
the house of fine man. It is unfortunate that in the excitement the daughters Spalatin brought nothing
and sends them beautifully bound book, her usual Gift [430]. Again, it takes the charm of the old
Burger pastor in claim as they perform their buildings in Zulsdorf. Because Spalatin for just
at this time Wittenberg again, she gives him all sorts of jobs because of Wittenberg Zulsdorf
so far away and closer in Altenburg was winter and because of that time could not get there. Since
the aim of he, the former Hofmann, provide for the Schöffer for having oak and thick whipping
for buildings get in their new kingdom. Since she recommends their carriers and craftsmen of the Spalatin
care. And that is interested in their companies Zulsdorfer so much Luther that he must write about all
the misfortunes, with which his wife Saxon "harpies", has wegstibitzen which their timber. But
the drug sent knowledgeable Doctor the Honourable rector also root against the stone, which
is right at Luther had been effective. [431]

A family friend was also her godfather Luther Hans von Taubenheim. Kate turns to him confidentially
with economic concerns. But she also takes part in his fate, aka 1539, it seems, fell out of
favor. King must write to him: "My Kitty makes you warm greet and weep bitterly over your accident,
and says: if you do not love God would have, or If you were a Papist, he would not have such
bad luck can happen to you. "[432]

All these friends of Luther's house lived abroad and were just visiting
or at least temporarily as in Wittenberg.

The family friends in the city itself were those of Luther's colleague: Professors Cruce, Jonas
and Melanchthon and the pastor Bugenhagen and tubes, less much of the other castle preacher George
D. Major, professor of Hebrew Matthew Aurogallus (Gold Rooster), Melanchthon's bosom friend Paul Eber,
D. Here. Schurf, finally, his brother, the family physician and neighbor, Professor Augustin
Schurf, whose wife Hanna of Käthe in the plague was taken into the
house and cared for.

All of them were often guests in Luther's house, especially in the Bible translation. In her circle, Luther
was more going on than the round table of diners, with "cheerful mood and witty joke" [433].

Cruce, Doctor of Holy Scripture, Luther's loyal friend and "Fürbund" which he (since 1528)
select his "Elisa", his successor in the theology of Luther's Testament had has signed, was - for
once - a wealthy theologian [434]. worried for him Käthe orders and his wife Elizabeth, a nun
was from Pomerania, brings her a Golden Meßgeschenk what Luther sent to Kreuziger woman an equal.
This, Elisabeth of Meseritz, was the poet of a song that Luther had put in his hymnal. It
begins:

Lord Christ, the One God Father in eternity, sprung from his heart Just as steit written. He is
the morning star, His' luster, he stretched out so far Before other stars is [435].

Elizabeth died early, so that Cruce walked to the second marriage (1530), wanted the wedding
He does not complain but Mrs. Lara and kept it on lock Eilenburg which he the elector Please
park on Luther's disposal.

  However, he is invited to Luther's
  birthday feast [436].

Bugenhagen
  or D. Pommer, the stately and
  dignified dean, professor and
  parish priest and General
  Superintendent-born (1536) [437]
  was with his composure giving us Pomeranian Soothing element in the
Lutheran home, whose confessor he was.

He also considered next Luther from quiet in the plague. Despite his dignified character he was
"in common Change of a liberal, exuberant and ready mind. " He stood from the beginning to Ms Kitty's
side. He helped her - along with the chaplain tube - the beautiful
glass before Luther Geschenkwut Save lives.

He stayed on even more in the monastery, so he even lived in Luther's challenges there [438].
Luther's letters greet very often in the same breath: Dr. Pommer and my or my Lara Lara and
Dr. Pommer. Once he even writes in the house and with a letter to Luther Spalatin wherein "Dominus
mea" ("my lord" Kate) saluted. A letter to Mrs. Katherine Luther should be in its Absence
pastor D. Pommer vomit and read [439]. Conversely, all sorts of Käthe D. Pommer to align, even
all sorts of theological arguments in Latin phrases Zwingli in Marburg and church politics of Augsburg.
"Sage D. Pommer," it says then Luther's letters to his wife [440]. The cozy Pommer delighted very much
with the friends his sayings, especially in wide plate, but he also laughed when the "Swabian"
Palatine Melanchthon wanted to try the Low German. In December 1527 the pastor expects Luther
the home confinement of his wife.
 The Emperor
verzeucht still in Inspruck. The priests have something in front and go with herbs. God admit
that they are the devil dam .... Amen.

Let's read the letter to Mr Doctor Pommer D. Wencel.

Haste. The messenger does not want to wait.

Greetings, kisses, heart and be kind to all, each according to his
rank.

Early on Pentecost, 1530.

Martin Luther.

for the attention of my dear housewives Katharin Luth Erin at Wittenberg. "

Wittenberg then went to the fortress of the inhabitants, especially the family and Jonas, much
anger and excitement, the monastery was temporarily spared.

While Luther was absent at the monastery home Hieronymus Weller as preceptor of the small Cottage. Jerome,
however, was plagued by a melancholy man, and it was so thankful welcomes the fact that his brother
Peter moved into the house, the preceptor of Luther's nephew, Polner. Also worthy of D. Pommer
(Bugenhagen) came from and into the Black Temple, to Mrs Kate to advice, and Mrs. Jonas, the always
happy, cheerful wife of the absent in Augsburg Provost, which of course then lost their second little
son soon after birth [288]. With high interest were received Luther's
writing, and with much joy in the company of retarded friends read.
Great Jubilee at the table companions caught a humorous Letter from
Luther's "Reichstag of jackdaws and crows," the funny image of the
Augsburg Reichstag. As will be described at all amusing, and the ex-taming
"of Malztürken," and her Scharwänzen Tournaments, her "perky" and
war against corn and wheat. And what a joy it was only, as the golden
apples from early Nuremberg with the messenger of Coburg arrived for
the dinner party! But first the shining eyes of children and their
playmates on-hearted tale Letters Luther to his "dear Söhnichen John"
from the beautiful Garden of Eden. Here rational considerations fail on a vision to which the whole organism part has the
terribly precise knowledge of how it is with me. People my shock know their own internal as well
as the Bureau Schreiber their registration apparatus, and where there the virtue ends and begins
to sin, is hard to say. The spring that feeds us is also poisoned, and we die of it without feeling
the poison. "

"But what we feel like we viewers and listeners is, joy, and gave
increased life," the warm friend and gave him both hands.

Mörner looked thoughtfully into space. "In all this, one should believe it," he said with a Rest
of self-mockery in the tone, "for all that it is like a last satisfaction that he comes of creditors
that he warned. He keeps me so still able to pay for, so I still Credit in the spirit world. Strange
that we do not become poorer when we got there our debts To pay the
contrary.

Only one must be able to pay just, I can not. The funds are empty to the dregs. So poor they
can not, or you have badly shattered miserable. "

Mörner went back to the rest who chatted harmless, the wife followed
him with mixed feelings.

The inexorable logic of the confusion and surprise she agreed she thought. Since a settlement
was going on, persistent and serious than the merely for everyday hardships trained eye was visible.

The
conversation turned to the circumstances of the time, and a young teacher of philosophy drew
the Note, in an era where reality produce as much material as in the present climate the fate
of so much raw material flowing stormy pond shore, in such a Era had the creative imagination
by an automatic functioning Compensation Law flag; only later generations were probably capable
of the chaotic thrown, Flotsam and jetsam of history, to use new
buildings.

Therefore, the decline of art, hence the Failure of the artist.

Mörner, who had hitherto listened in silence, indecisive share in the faces twitched suddenly.
It was not very tactful statement with regard to him, which felt everyone, including the speaker
himself, who broke off, blushing. But she was now done once. Mörner raised his hand with fingers
spread, as if to prevent that he had a different word in first come, saying, "Oh no, no, no.
Undeniably, we shall meet the time, but not because of the plethora of events, but because of
the destruction of minds and souls. Which fire outbreaks ingenious natures past upheavals have been
accompanied! Will you name? They swarm. Every revolution has given birth to prophets and designers
from her womb; one of the Eroica hurled into the roaring wave, one of his grandiose pain The Hermann
Battle snatched, one that in the midst of enormous ferment the tribune
of the Comedie # # humaine built. The parents were dead, brother
Hans himself had to seek services in the remote Prussia, then administrative offices in Saxony. The
oldest Poor brother was married, had probably no place for the sister of recent, Clemens, was
expected to completely nothing.

So then was the young lady Katharina von Bora, according to tradition the house of a Wittenberg
Citizen housed, who lived in the mayor's street.

It was the honorable scholarly M. Philip Reichenbach, who in 1525 in Wittenberg town clerk, 1529 Licentiate
of law, Mayor in 1530 and finally Electoral Council was [106].

In the Wittenberg Mansion, the former nun more than a kind of foster daughter held and master
of the house took place at her father. But it must have taken a prominent position have. She was
known and called in the company of fellow University and the Danish King Christiern II, who
was exiled in October 1523 to Wittenberg and the painter Lucas Cranach
was flat, Catherine bestowed with a golden rings.

The young scholar in Wittenberg spoke with respect for her, they called in their letters familiar, probably
because of their strict restraint, "the Catherine of Siena [107].

When the town clerk, or rather with his wife, Catherine should now settle on bora in the new
or rather old worldly, middle-class life.

That was not so very easy. At least fourteen years, almost their whole conscious Life had, Catherine
spent in the monastery. All these years she had the religious garb taken to get used to nuns-like
gesture and attitude, religious customs and speeches; dealing with worldly people had forgotten
or never really learned it right, and as the work in the handling room and kitchen, in fact, it
is understood that the practical Luther was the sight of the nine world-novice nuns exclaim:
"A poor little people"! As in the secular dress Catherine had now become accustomed to secular morals
and speech; her pale face like a tan from sun and air, her delicate
hands in the attack of Pots and brooms harden, so too must their spiritual
essence to the rougher healthier, but Demands and impositions of the
world is strong.

But like their hair cut long blond tresses grew, so too was worried and thinking about the small worldly
duties and the great secular interests.

And the young lady was not in vain in the female masters. It was presented here trains hard large
enough for their future financial obligations. And it also depends on the testimony Wittenberg University
in the House of Reichenbach "quiet and well behaved"

[108].

But other thoughts and feelings awakened in her and became her close down from the outside.
And here she had experiences and learned her painful disappointments that they worldly and cautiously
made.

Catherine was now 24 years old, a ripe, indeed to the views of that time, which the 15th to 18
Age of a virgin for the most correct of marriageable age was a overripe virgin. That she thought
of marriage, is understandable. For they had neither a position or
wealth.

Staying with their foster parents but was only a temporary and not be satisfactory. Luther, of particular
concern for them, as leaked to other Monastery people assumed, was in any case from the beginning
the pronounced intention of those who could find that their families do not maintain and stay
married. And his whole view was there - the fact he had the real peasant view of his father
- That man is born to a family life and especially the woman of God for marriage was determined
[109].

Then came back in May or June 1523 in the university town of Jerome Baum, a patrician son from
Nuremberg, "a young fellow, with erudition and godliness gifted". He had previously (1518-21)
and had studied in Wittenberg Melanchthon in his food table and was now his old teachers and friends
in Wittenberg: Luther and Melanchthon to visit especially with which he later stood in the brisk
exchange of letters [110].

This young man appeared to Luther than the right Husband for his protegee he was 25 years old, Kate
24, both from a noble house; they no assets, the more fit in Luther eyes of wealthy Nuremberg
for them. And He will probably have seen to it that Baum was up to her and to her delight found.
Lara also seized an raschaufwallende tendency for the young man, he was probably the first to approach
what has been the nun. Perhaps the two have also been found first, Luther and operational zealous
in its kind, bringing together the two. In any case, was the mutual inclination in the Friends
of the known, and it was holding the wedding for sure.

But Baum went home to Nuremberg and had nothing been heard from him, although he promised had
come after a few weeks in order, believed to have Kathy bring home.

The friends, especially Blickard Syndringer, the patrician son recalled teasing in her letters often
enough to the abandoned lover. She has fallen for his departure in a disease and had consumed
with longing for him. In the beginning of the following year ordered another the Nuremberg Ulrich
Pinder from Wittenberg to Baumgärtner a greeting of "Catherine of Siena ie from Borra. Luther
finally wrote again on 12 October 1524 to Baum: "If you want to hold your Katherine von Bora,
so make haste, before they added another is that is at hand.

She still has not got over the love of you. And I would even very happy if you both connected
with each other would "[111].

But the parent tree gardener apparently the runaway nun was offensive, and that assets into was,
she could not recommend more than ever. Therefore, Jerome went to the ultimatum of the Free
advertiser is not a Luther. As he did in spring 1525 in Nuremberg had become councilman, became
engaged he was with a girl of 14 years, Sibylle Dichtel of Tutzing "with very rich dowry and what
he desired was still very respectable parents, and talked to her on 23 January 1526 in Munich,
the wedding [112].

But as Baum Catherine had given final proof, Luther moved now with the other Suitors out that he had
for Kate's hand.

That was D. Kaspar Glatz, the 27 August 1524 from the University of Wittenberg, whose rector he
was then, on their Patronage parish Orlamünde had set. Luther was now in order, his protegee
D. Glatz to the outdoors. But Kate, the man who during his apprenticeship in the small Wittenberg
had met him did not want it, and she had a real feel as Luther.

Glatz was, as it turned out later, a bossy, stubborn man, the dispute with his congregation
was shocked and had to be so. But Luther Kate sat with her marriage. Then she went to Luther's
colleague, Professor Amsdorf and complained that Luther wanted to marry her against her will to D. Glatz,
now knew them that Amsdorf Luther was familiar friend, so they please, he wanted this project
in Luther . Frustrate

Here seems Amsdorf who interpreted the refusal of noble pride, to
have noticed: Whether it was because a doctor, professor or pastor
is not good enough? as was Katharina forced to the statement: if they
want to Amsdorf or Luther's wife, she would not refuse, D. Glatz but
they could not have [113].

This remark, which was probably spoken without much purpose, had its consequences, while not
for Amsdorf who remained unmarried, but for Luther. He also had the Bora "for pride and arrogant
"on hold while they still had only a little more restrained and a certain self-consciousness showed
he had liked it so not right.

By those declaration Amsdorf but was thought to be related to other [114].

5. Chapter.

Catherine's marriage.

Thus Luther was at Katherine von Bora, but also with other nuns, the suitor, and he did it but
also in his writings, in which he praised the state of matrimony
so high and everyone invited to do so.

Therefore, he joked in an epistle to Spalatin: "It is surprising that I, who I so often write about
marriage and so often come under women, far from verweibischt or beweibt am "And more seriously."
I urge others with as much reason to get married, that I nearly even to move would "[115].

If
so eager to marry Luther advised, he was primarily his colleagues in the eye. For up to the
Reformation it was not only customary law but also that university teachers not married: so were the schools,
the universities as a church, even spiritual institutions and considered the "spiritual" person
as "clergy". Only limited Exceptions were gradually allowed the marriage to doctors and lawyers,
Rector long time could also be in Wittenberg, only one unmarried professor. The scholars but
also turn the marriage regarded as a humiliation for their high standard is why Luther has
only barely been able to marry the learned Melanchthon [116].

But that the actual ministers, priests, married, that was before Luther, since Gregor the seventh
time, that is six hundred and fifty years, something unheard of. But just Now it has gradually
penetrated Luther in his many writings to show that in Christianity of the clergy was nothing
special, but rather that all those from the baptism crawled, bishops and priests would be, and
vice versa, the priest nothing but Christian. He urged all his friends to marriage and compensated
them helped with zeal; also the Grand Master of Prussia and the Archbishop of Mainz. He wanted to
speak for his Conception of universal priesthood and St.. Marital status, such as the false
sanctity of Celibacy the mass of evidence lead to facts. He warns Spalatin (Easter 1525): "Why
You do not stride to marriage? It is possible that I own to come when the enemies are not stop
this state of life to condemn and ridicule him daily Klüglinge "[117]

The
idea that people should also monastery to marry, was Luther strange
at first: was but after this the perception of time so sacrilegious
that the secular marriage rights of monks and nuns punished with death
[118].

From the Wartburg Luther wrote (on 6 August 1521): "We want to give even the monks Wittenberg
women? Now I want it at least not forced upon women, "and he jokes with Melanchthon, whether this
is probably him wanted revenge for the fact that he had helped him to a woman? he will know to
beware, however. But after a few months he had convinced himself: "The celibate life in monasteries
is also the religious freedom contrary. So, where are not free and with pleasure are unmarried and
have to It just about shame, fear, commercial or honor's sake, let there just now and will soon
marry. "So He now also supplied monks and nuns in the marriage [119].

But as he himself only late - the latest among the brothers - came
to his convent life give up his habit - was worn than the last - in
October 1524 with the cassock and Professor gown exchanged, it fared
well with the marriage.

In 1528 he said: "If someone had said at the Diet of Worms, after
7 years I would be husband, Wife and children have, I would have laughed
at him.

" Especially when her friends and girlfriends as Argula tried to persuade them or by Grumbach
said that he would get married yet, said he for the talk. Only 30 November 1524, he said, in his
past and present Mind he would not take a wife, his mind will not fit to marry, he felt this
not sent. Still Easter 1525 he writes that he does not think marriage [120].

But soon after Easter, it was another meaning.

It was just the bad time of the peasant unrest, where radical fanatics in the cause of Reformation
the extreme risk, the time when the enemies identified with malicious glee at him, and the friends
with anxious concern for him looked and it was then, as he went about the to appease fanatical peasant
troops, while two have been in perils of death, than he ever did against the death [121]. As he explained,
"Muenzer and the farmers have the Gospel we hurt so much and the Papists made so haughty that it
looks almost as though we preach the gospel again all over again. "That's why he's now wanted
to" not with the word alone, but with the fact witness. " He wanted to use his example, his
teaching Affirm because he found so many faint, and so did the timid Archbishop of Mainz for
example trot ahead. He had in mind before he depart this life, in the divinely created to
make married life and find "nothing of his previous papal life to keep themselves," and there
was even a betrothed Joseph See: the death-bed he was a pious maiden antrauen and let her dowry
for his two silver cups rich.

When he did by Dr. Sharp heard the saying, "If this man would take a woman, would the whole
world and the devil himself laugh, and he spent all his property to ruin, "because he decided
to first rather, "Can I send it, I will marry the devil, despite still, and the angels to rejoice,
and weep the devil. "Finally he urged his father, with whom he on his then travels met to fulfill his
greatest desire favorite, and Luther was "not that his dearly beloved father refuse obedience past"
[122].

And just a nun should be the chosen one, "the devil and his shed, the large Hansen, princes
and bishops in defiance, which will be absolutely absurd that spiritual people free ". And not
only the great Hansen, but also the great mass Despite which, according
to his superstition, the son of a monk and a nun for the Antichrist
held.

So he wanted "to testify the gospel in deed, in contempt for those who triumph Ju and scream,
ju, and take a nun to wife "[123]. This nun, but she was supposedly be of Bora.

She was still in unprovided Reichenbach's home, and he was in it a work of Mercy do. She had
said she would take him if he wanted. And he had now gained a better opinion of her.

  Kitty's extraordinary beauty
  that have set him on fire,
  he said his opponents in malicious
  intent to.

Luther speaks only once and in a rather late date in a letter his wife, in chivalrous mischievous
way from the fact that he was "a beautiful woman at home" have. But he expressly stated in the
first days of his marriage that he was not in love or full of passionate
fire, but he had his wife happy.

She was not even particularly beautiful. Physical beauty of the rhyme quoted Luther:

If the rose-apple, Is a small worms inside, If the maiden neatly, Thus, Krause's senses.

And as he said a marriage funny friend once, he wants a beautiful,
pious, (ie Brave) and the rich, so Luther remarked, "Oh, yes, we shall
want to paint a full cheeks and white Legs, the same are also the
most pious, but they do not cook well and pray evil "[124].

He arrived in silence and without passionate excitement his choice. On 16 April Kids He compared
Spalatin, even anger that he was a lover: "Three women I have also had and she loved so bravely
that I have lost two, what other measures fiancee, and the third I hardly think the left arm,
which is soon taken away from me maybe "[125].

So he had but certain personalities are contemplated.

Already on 4 May, after a visit with relatives in Eisleben and Mansfeld, he talks In a letter
to his brother-Rühel familiar to Mansfield about "my Kitty," which he would take, he could send's.
And like his brother, he has in any case his Parents privy to his plans, and his father talked
him seriously to [126]. In Wittenberg But even he confided it to a few people: the painter Lucas
Cranach and councilor, and his wife. Especially his colleagues and other friends, especially Melanchthon
said, he denied them.

The smart ones did not for him just what Luther wanted: a nun, and thought and talked about a monk
and nuns marriage "loveless".

And especially them was Katharina von Bora was not right; cried all his best friends, "Not
this, but a others, "and probably to prevent it, put" bad mouths "even a malicious slander on.
But that is what prompted Luther to make the case to an end quickly before it against him applied
mouths would be forced to hear, as often happens, and "because of Satan like a lot of obstacles
and make a maze by evil tongues "[127]. He prayed "for our Lord God with seriousness, "as he says,
and then act without human advice and concerns, so as Melanchthon complains, without his friends
to speak of this [128].

By Katharina, Luther had in any case set to agree: if it for weeks could write "My Kitty," they must
have known of his intentions.

That Kate Martin Luther was also a purely human pleasure, sees itself. He was probably already
42 years old and 16 older than herself, but a contemporary witness: "A fine clearly and bravely
face and eyes he had, and Falk was a beautiful person of limbs.

He also had a fine bright pure voice, both singing and talking was not a great Schreier. Even
a noble, refined taste would appeal to the former monk and a farmer's son: He held something
in an attractive appearance and because of his diligence in clothing called him, even his
opponents blaming a "fine Hofmann," because he was wearing "shirts with Bändelein" had a finger ring and
yellow boots [129].

Here Luther was taken for everything beautiful in art and nature, a good singer and lutenist,
cheerful and joyful sense of humor.

But Luther's temperament was more satisfied with a female he was despite violence but good-natured,
steering with all stubbornness as a child, but in all bluntness thoughtfully
and sensitively.

He was "a devout (good) man" who loved his wife sincerely have could,
and in its possession, as he himself said that a woman is likely to
seem when Empress [130].

Of course, the external position which Luther's wife had occupied a soaring Sensory stimuli.
The doctorate was in that humanists still valued higher than it is now the Academic Chair, it was at
least equal to the nobility. The easiest doctor, from Peasants and artisans had worked himself
up, was of a noble young women more desirable Comrade marriage desires, so that a large number
of women in Wittenberg Professor of the nobility were. And even Luther's hot wife, the most
celebrated man not only all over Wittenberg, but in Christendom, was a woman of sense of self
flattering, even if it is had to say, conversely, that the size of the man and all the hatred and
abuse with to be accepted, which brought him against the enemies. It was also a risky business,
to meet such an extraordinary man, the mighty equal partner be.

Bridesmaid Kitty had the courage of self-consciousness to it.

Example, refused Kitty is not the approach of Luther.

The formal application Luther is likely until Tuesday the 13th June happened, of course in Reichenbach's
home. A later report said that Katherine was surprised and initially
not know whether it was Luther's seriousness, but had then agreed.

Same evening on the same Days was the wedding or the engagement,
"also available at the town clerk or possibly Luther's dwelling in
the monastery. At the time of the supper, the doctor invited the parish
priest Bugenhagen and Jonas provost, the lawyer Apel and the alderman
and city treasurer Master Lucas Cranach and his wife - Melanchthon
was not there - which expressly Jonas apart as striking: he was so
anxious about this move of his great friend, that He did not fit this
act. Even his friend Dr. here. Schurf could not Luther to his Choose
counsel, because this teacher of all kinds of civil and ecclesiastical
law legal concerns had against the marriage of priests [131].

The
marriage took place after the traditional rites [132]: the lawyer
took the legal Formalities, the written marriage contract, he (or
Bugenhagen) asked in the presence of witnesses the groom, the bride
if he take to wife and the bride, if she married the man to wanted
husband. Then the pastor gave them both together with prayer and blessing.
This was followed a small dinner and then the nuptials: Bride and
groom were led to the bridal bed, camped out under a blanket and that
was the marriage valid [133].

That was Luther's "pledge" as stated
in the Wittenberg speech. 

That was - after the bridge report - the conversation of four friends and gossips about Luther
his widow.

Melanchthon had therefore argued against the will of the woman doctor their concerns to the chancellor
Three, they just talk - and with good reason - wanted to avoid, and he also had all sorts of
oral communications made which could not be used to entertain the
friends to improve against the doctor.

Without knowing this confidential treatment for its release something now, Mrs Catherine their input
by the family friend Ratzeberger, the electoral body physician, in the court at Torgau Lock
file.

It happened on Wednesday, and already Thursday, 11 March asked the Elector Registrar Brück Wittenberg
for an opinion on the petition of Catherine, which he his letter attributed.

The opinion of the chancellor is now a peculiarly spiteful writing. Brück reported therein to the
elector, the first confidential meeting of the three theologians of all, Catherine adverse comments
the same, and, as it seems worse. Had the Melanchthon knew he would probably abstain's, bridge
"from the women because of concerns about his" ask. Furthermore, the Chancellor mentioned in
the paper all sorts of hateful and even hypocritical chatter "By others." "Many people do think
it's that it will finally be omitted hardly that it will change again "- that dares Brück
three weeks after her husband's death from a 47 year old woman to write! despite the fact that
he is aware of and expressly it should be avoided, that "you argue with the women whether they
will change or nit. " He also reports to the Elector: "They tell me it did each boy a Preceptor
and Famulum own "- after it turns out that only a single is Rutfeld, and a learned and faithful
companion. It will also be an exaggeration to he called "public" hinstellt what "the other
servants exist" - namely, as "with many people "(servants) was overloaded. Finally, the Registrar
gives his aversion to the Doctorin still several clear expression. He calls her request "blunt and
short," and he expects repeated before the elector, that he gave 600 florins for the edification
of the good grace money Zulsdorf and, moreover, fl for 100 wood, and he speaks of the suspicion,
but also what Dr. Luther Should that: "The poor lame wolf is still there, they want it in reserve
and he with her remain, it would have the forty florins with bread to break, because as yet
been done, that The poor man has enjoyed little of the same, - I'll get, "he is a bit worrying
added. The farm village guard makes Brück as bad as possible and says it "conquer" does not
hundred guilders net yield, not even the interest on capital. He suspects the Doctorin continues,
"it was no use their children" and it was her to do just about to have some on the estate. And
his whole endeavor is only accessible to the children and the children all to have come good,
to exclude the widow from the possession and enjoyment. And furthermore Brück Council and intention,
"her impressive - another time that" large and verthunliche " - To break household. Finally
he goes out with a vengeance on the mother's children to withdraw. While Luther in his will
to his wife had the good confidence, "The mother of her own children would be the best guardian,"
Bruck said, it seems with a direct relationship to this thoughts of Luther: "After they can nit-Saxon
law guardian be, while they need at their widows themselves guardians, so it would be too carefully,
because (when) the woman would otherwise marry. "At worst, he joined the well-widow close when
he points out, the boys would go walking with her and squires and the Studio deducted, they
must therefore "be done to learned people, before which they fear and dread had, in which they
would also have a comfortable table "- as if the children with her - the "Erzköchin" - would
fail even in their physical care! The only established cause to the distrust in Catherine's art education
but could give only limited progress those of low-gifted first-born in the study so far.

Almost more like bad conscience, it looks like a woman afraid of strong Catherine's will, when
the Chancellor wrote to the Elector: "Now I would willingly Gewest in subjection, with the
women themselves or Philippo of the things on E. Kurf. Gn. command to speak, so has been quite
abgescheuet this, that those days of Philippo I understood that their mind nit Here would
be the house to sell or leave, but were thinking to keep it, ingleichen Zulsdorf and wax village,
about the sale of the house wanted to be nit to commemorate her. "

Objectively, the Registrar makes the electors now following proposals:

1. This was not the cause of the Domina SKGn. to commemorate denigration, may the Elector previous
prescribed $ 1,000 florins still 1000 - and do add - but only for
the children both interest together with £ 100, but which on the girl
(Margaret), whether district (500 fl) verpensionieren until her marriage.

2.

The elector should the mother and the children be special guardians. This mutual Guardians should
be the property of widows and orphans of the divorce clean.

3. "After that, the guardians of both sides talking about how, what and what form the Children will be entertained.
It will take because the Gebeiß between the woman and the mutual Guardians result. Because children
are the guardians say: it was no better than Hansen the older son to court in Thue gene ECG Registry;
want to send it over time, therefore, that he would come to something, he would be missing otherwise.
For if ordered him a scholarship ECG and want to study discontinued, it is shameful to terminate
him. Furthermore, they will say that with the other boys were no better, than that they are from
each other and that they would do nit in the mother would be. "To them, the elector may have
another Scholarship given.

4. The daughter could be left with the mother and type of the 500 fl 30 fl pension and if it was
not enough: 40 fl which it could be the mother with a small Meidlein,
the it comes up, well maintained and with the Mansfeld of money or
interest share clothes provided.

5. In this way would the woman and her great verthunliche household are broken and eliminating
the fear that the children of "Junker and rags" are.

6. "If the woman then tell our guardians," How are they to be preserved, "said? could say the guardians
of the children: they need with their daughter large household, not many servants would have
the apartment for free, could keep boarders, some of the property
Rent brew, the enjoyment of the garden, hooves and have Zulsdorf and
percentage of Mansfield's Interest on capital.

Nor can the elector her and give her daughter a year and two barrels of grain perhaps several
cords of wood.

7. "If they (the dominatrix) noted that ECG would grant the children, watch village buy and let
fl handing over to the 2000, it will soon forget the good and the trouble of building and do
not load, so they do not, at least, half of them appointed amongst
will be.

"There were also only 100 florins a year net income, and have also the load of a half Lehnspferdes.
About it but should the captain of Wittenberg Asmus mirrors are whether the Well add more than
capital.

The elector was more considerate than his Chancellor. He seemed to remember his dislike and arranged
in a letter to Melanchthon on bridges and that guardians for the widow and the orphans were ordered,
and prescribed to children even $ 1,000, for the purchase of village
guards should the guardians are [599].

Although offered bridge, go up to (the doctor) and to do the ads, Philip but thought it would
be left without trouble, he would adjust it because of our mutual good. "So Melanchthon on Friday
morning with the elector's letter to the doctor [600].

She thanked him and the Elector for the pardon allowance in favor of their children and then explained
the following:

1. They wish to be guardians of each city and their main man of Wittenberg Brother Hans von Bora,
and for the children of the doctor's brother Blessed Jacob, the present
mayor Reuter and Melanchthon at Wittenberg, Dr. G. Major rejected
it, nor crucified him, it seems refused to have any intimate correspondence
with Veit Dietrich Käthe a "domestic torch" had called.

She explained, however, with the guardianship of the Elector. Personal physician, Dr. Ratzeberger
agree that "his wife's sake was himself the friendship (= relatives)." [601]

2. She agreed that the 1500 fl created by the electors for their sons to watch village would. The Chancellor
had also done so it is wrong that he thought the Domina would Village
guard have only or mainly for themselves and manage, rather than for
their sons.

The Registrar now proposed to the electors, not to Melanchthon loaded
"with the guardianship, because he is devout and a little (kind-hearted
and weak), nit to serve, as it is the woman Oppositum to keep (opposition).

"You should both theologians and Melanchthon Kreuzinger Mitvormündern to make only in relation to
the education of children, that the sons of 'fear of God, Doctrine, discipline and virtue, want
to be drawn. "[602]

It was then also adopted by the electors and appoint guardians for
the children Kreuziger also in substitution for Ratzeberger which
only the most important negotiations Agreement could [603].

Luther was also the will, "after Us Special Our love Catherine, the
Venerable High and scholars of our dear devotees honor Martin Luther,
St.. Font Doctors blessed posthumous widow of her Lord and Regulation
will be present and ask "- to Judica of electors "and graciously bestätiget
konfirmiret whether it equal to delicacies Solemnitäten and require,
the rights and the poor would be.

"[604]

Now there was a long arduous negotiations between the Chancellor and electors on the one hand
and between the guardians and the Doctorin other hand, due to the acquisition of the estate
village guard and the education of children [605].

The Registrar advised strongly dependent on the purchase of the goods, but more stubborn "working"
women Cathy on it, and offered to their children too well to "loaded" with this thing; because
she hopes for great enjoyment from it and promised to take "no particular Building allda make.
Therefore, the guardians "would deny it even harder nit and by their resistance to it have
the reputation of fencing, as they tried to stop their welfare and forget the Lord (Luther's)
blessings. " "So it has the virtuous woman and Doctorin adopted by her guardians. "[606] The
estate cost but because the 2200 fl Mansfeld Capital in the first two years was liquid, so did
the guardians to consider the Elector "That is want to go to the Lord laudable Doctors sake of something
widow, and that they are truly stuck between the door and Angel. "Therefore was the Elector
in 2000 florins ago including the 500 florins of Margaret, which, however, as to her marriage
mortgage had to be put on wax village and bear interest at 30 fl. Of the $ 200 was missing
Melanchthon and a friend half to the other, he went to the wealthy Amsdorf. On Whit Monday
(14 June 1546) paid the Chancellor Brück the 2000 florins to the
guardians Ratzeberger, Reuter and Jacob Luther, and wife Katherine,
the so-stopped "industrious that gemeldte gift converted into landed
property will, "volunteered" that they such goods to the four children
Good wanted to wait faithfully and diligently ".

For managing the good they would certainly like to had another part of Mansfeld's capital this
half and went to the count, and how it seems, with partial success [607].

Similarly, there was also the education of children.

Although the chancellor urged on that John in the Electoral. Firm would come and the other
two, Paul and Martin, with the mother Verwilligung away to a master's in home, board and tuition,
so to strangers would have done. And it also endorsed the elector [608].

This was also the widow will be content, "can you do these fallen and with the Compare guardians
about it. "So at least Brück reported to the elector. Well arranged the elector to the report
from the Registrar to that the guardians of the oldest son in front of him and called on him vernähmen
whether he inclined to continue in the studio and if he so jetzo cleverly that his study had
hopes sake, so it should have been a half year with try him, but he should be sent to neither
inclined nor, so would the Elector take him to his office. The two young sons should "from the mother
to a suitable Master or Preceptor be done, where they are essential and an equal (Cheap) food
or have money to go somewhere with him to dinner, where they also
fear and have fear and are therefore in the teaching and discipline
brought the best and remain in it.

" This removal of children from the home should now also the household of widow be resolved
[609].

That these impositions on Catherine cost a great fight, can be imagined.

If they probably also yielded first at the common run of all the friends and patrons to these
plans had, now, when they should come to the real version, resisted the mother with all its
might. The fighting lasted four weeks and - Catherine was victorious [610].

The guardians Cruce, Melanchthon and Reuter took command of the elector on the first oldest, John,
before. They represented to him that SKGn. inclination would be to him in his office to take. "Since
it because in such an age would be that he would consider cheap, which he would finally make:
whether to stay with the studio wanted it or not, and the guardians
him to the firm deemed capable, they would like him to advise, also
that it in itself a commendable and useful as is, he used it to praise
God and common welfare and his dear mother, sister and brothers can
be comforting and it should therefore be grateful accept the electoral
offer and not turn this state.

"

This was followed by a long back-and-contradiction and a written reply by Hans content: "Venerable,
gentlemen! Highness the Elector. Touching I command myself have in subjection and consulted with
thanks. Now I understand very well that the firm stand in a very honest (Honorable) service is,
but I know that my dear father has not before that time consent want me to pull out of the
school. So I wanted to study longer. I want to by God's grace in all obedience and subjection
to God, p. Electoral. Gn. and my dear mother to keep forever. And please, P. Kurf. Gn. do let
me graciously, another year in Artibus ("in the liberal arts") to study me in the Latin alphabet to practice
better. And so I then able to faculty, (go) I would prefer procediren in the studio, so me
but SKGn. wanted to use then graciously, I make the same SKGn to
it. in subjection.

John Lutherus. "

Furthermore, the current preceptor called the guardians of the two young boys, Ambros Rutfeld,
before and asked about the boy.

One man, Martin, writing and they looked at were studied it well, Paul had been ill for several
weeks, turned out to be sent to the music, grammar but not so capable.

Then were the guardians of the mother Sr. Electoral. Gn. "Gracious mind, it's the studio that
they faithfully and diligently stopped and bestellet with training and housing for a master's
in city would. "

The mother gave the following answer: "You do not doubt Electoral p.. Gn. my this graciously and
they humbly thank you. But to remember you, because the youngest often weak (ill) Was that
he in other Oerter could not be better because of the mother.

In addition, BE AUTHORIZED Here would then load the Magistri (translated) in their own homes
that the children without Peril to their health are not well-ordered with them. They also wish
to the foreign unequal young people rather fall into bad company, because with her, seeing
that but they leave the house without their permission is not likely. "

These reasons recognized the guardians, and because now the children do not come from the mother,
but should remain with her, also demanded the children and the widow of necessity not that the
household fed and wasted costs were cut. The Guardians also brought about the further electoral
order not to negotiate, "That the unnecessary servants was done away and the annual income of
the widow and Children their household have convenient, it also does not want to thrive in debt.
" The guardians said rather to the electors, the boys were jetzund with a learned bestellet faithful
companion, she also wanted to have myself a sensation on Martini studio, had already disposed
of the rest. And they did so even more willingly to the purchase of Good security village. Accordingly,
now the elector decided to Ratzeberger agreement: he would let it
go at the resolve Hansen, was also agreed that he and his brothers
now remained with the mother, provided, however, now that the doctor
Blessed sons all three the tutor and supervisor of guardians for breeding,
virtue, and teaching would be stopped with diligence, them not much
will be missed Walking verstattet. Dishonor the name of God the Holy arrogant and vicious martyrs who do not are like other
people, but like the hypocrite in the Gospels. We do not pray, "Let us come to thy kingdom,
as we should go after that, but, "Your kingdom come to us, for God's grace and his kingdom must
come to us, just as Christ to us from heaven to Earth has come and we are not gone to him from
earth to heaven. The daily Bread is the word of God, because it fed the soul be strengthened,
large and strong will. It is a serious nature to our time that the Fürnehmste remains behind
in the service. "[68]

Then in 1520 the "Sermon on Good Works" came from. Good works were all tuna in the monastery: Prayer,
fasting, vigils, etc. But now Luther called truly good works? "The first, highest and noblest work
is the belief in Christ. It all works done and thus only be good. Prayer, fasting, pins, this
is without anything. Do you ask such whether the regarded as a good turn if they work their
craft and to do all the work of the Body of food or for the common benefit, they say no! and
the good works of release to narrow that only church-going, praying, fasting, alms remain.
To shorten and reduce it God his services. A Christian vermisset themselves of everything which
are to do, and do's to gather not many good works and merits, but because, all happy and free
he is a pleasure, so God probably fallen. Parents to their own children Obtain salvation,
so they pull the service of God, they have indeed fully hands to do good works in them. O
what a blessed marriage and home that would be! Surely it would be a Right church, a monastery
chosen out, indeed a paradise! "

And similar thoughts could see people running the monastery in the doctor's beautiful Book
"The Freedom of a Christian" from the same 1520. It says: "The Man does not live in isolation,
but also for all people on earth, or rather are alone for others and not for himself. Therefore,
I am sorely afraid that these days few or Monasteries are not Christian. I fear that is that
in the fasting and prayer all of them only ours is looking for, so that atoned for our sins and have
found our salvation will be.

"

For the monks and nuns, but were specially written several works on the monastic life. Thus
the little book on "the monastic vows. From the desert to appreciate (ie Wartburg) anno 1521.
This Luther takes the fallen and anguished conscience and does is from God's Word that the vows without
and against God's commandment to be impossible happened and are one baptized human heart can
not captivate and imprison. The faith and the baptismal was the highest, without which one can promise
nothing, for the souls through Baptism Conspirators and fiancee of Christ. False fiancee as the
monastery people freed the son of God and takes on the out of grace
with joy that turns to him and attaches to the first vows.

"This book made a lot of single gang and freed many prisoners heart," says a contemporary of
[69].

Also from the Wartburg, finally appeared a German sermon book ("Postilla") of Luther and St. Michael's
of the same year (1522) nor a Wartburg work "The New Testament German ". Now, anyone could and above
all the spiritual people in the monastery, which wanted to follow
the advice and lead a Protestant evangelical life, from the source
To know what is true Christianity, as taught by Christ and the apostles,
and as Luther had designed.

Consequently, the city turned Grimma, Nimbschen in the immediate vicinity
of the monastery located, the Gospel was, and the monks left their
monasteries in several surrounding Worship.

These writings and news also came to the monastery Nimbschen, for
so completely closed of the world and nunneries were not.

By what means and by whom they were taught the nuns?

Two kinds of ways and show people there are. In Grimsby was a monastery of Luther's congregation:
Augustinian hermits.

Luther had been held there in 1516 and visitation at the return of the Leipzig Disputation (1519),
he stayed several days and probably preached there; because the majority of the inhabitants Grimmas
was settled long ago on his side. The prior of the Klosters Wolfgang von Zeschau was Luther's friend.
He entered 1522 with half of the monks from the monastery and became "Mr. Hospital (Spittelmeister)
at St. George's Hospital.

From this Zeschau But there were two relatives (aunts) in the monastery Nimbschen, two biological
Sisters: Margaret and Veronica of Zeschau. Certainly this was Protestant-minded former operate
at least a monk before his departure with his aunts them without suspicion and Luther Writings
plugging. Even the zealous Protestant parish priest in Grimsby, Gareysen was to a position which
at Easter 1523 hl. Communion in both kinds handed out.

Apart from the nearby town of Grimsby but could be further from the Torgau the place from which
reformist ideas and writings Nimbschen penetrated into the convent. In Torgau was very early
and very radical, the Reformation was introduced, especially since the former monastery contemporary
of Luther, the fiery twin master Gabriel worked there. This, although one-eyed and a little
man with a weak voice, has inspired yet by his yes stormy sermon,
which had carried away even a Wittenberg Melanchthon, citizenship
to a rather radical remedy of all the Roman abuses and enthusiastic
Recording of the Gospel moved.

Yes, a son of Torgau citizens, soap makers of his craft, abducted at the time - is uncertain whether
before or after 1523, - two nuns from the monastery Riesa on the Elbe River and hid in a tree
hollow. Then he took a horse and led her home and married one of the two young women monastery.
And a Torgauerin occurred in 1523 from the monastery Sitzerode [70].

A very decisive and strong supporters was that the former Firestone, the "fürsichtige and wise counselor
"Leonhard Koppe, buy into the shop, the monastery's goods used, and probably with his own wagon supplies
brought by Nimbschen. Such was this layman, though his evangelical convictions had to be known,
perhaps an even more appropriate intermediary for Protestant writings,
but at least when the suspect came over Clergy from Grimsby facing
a dangerous wolf "two men at the gate" their spiritual sheepfold probably
have to be guarded.

With its products Koppe could easily Lutheran Writings, smuggled and get a letter from the monastery
to the outside. Keck and Koppe was smart enough to [71].

What impression the occurrence and the writings of Luther opened the nuns can be clearly seen,
the from a report that a nun in the same location and time, those Florentina of Eisleben, by Luther
was in print. "As time divine consolation, in which the Gospel The hidden for so long, come to
light, appeared quite common Christianity: Are to me than a languishing
hungry sheep, long starved of the pasture, the writings Right shepherds
come from thy I found that my spiritual life is a seemingly gestrackter
road to hell is "[72].

In Nimbschen a large part of the monastery young women felt the same. Yes, a number of them made
a date to the plan to withdraw from the monastery.

This was a difficult decision, overcoming the great cost. A nun was ausgesprungene been a blot
on the family. The free escape but was only by papal to obtain a dispensation at great expense and
effort, and does only members of royal families possible. Of course, were in this new, low-excited
time now, monks from the monastery Association become worn and worldly, no one dared now, at least
in electoral Saxony, touching, yes, they even got offices and agencies of city and state. But the exit
of nuns was almost unheard of yet, at least very unusual [73]. And even if the prejudice the world
and their own relatives had been overcome, but wondered: what should
be the beaten Nuns start out in the world, and what shall be thus
preserved, and through life ?

Bring [74]

If, therefore, including most, if not all nuns in Nimbschen rejected the monastic life, but there
was a decided only the most courageous to do the move they to be right and offered, in fact considered
only those who by virtue of their education is through self- were unable to bring life, as the
Staupitz and Kanitz, or who were still young enough to send in a new life, as the two Schoenfeld
and Katharina von Bora. There were ready in Nimbschen nine nuns to exit: Magdalena of Staupitz, Elisabeth
von Kanitz, Veronica and Margaret of Zeschau, Loneta of Gohlis, Eva
Large Ave and Margarete von Schönfeld and the second-youngest of them
Katharina Bora [75].

This monastery "children" (nuns) now did the most natural and sensible, "she requested and
asked their parents and friends (ie relatives) allerdemütigste again for help to get out. " They
pointed to sufficiently that such a life of their soul's salvation,
only store to tolerate was offered, even to do and suffer what pious
(brave) do children suffer and should "[76].

But of course the parents and relatives the request of her daughters and bases was an embarrassment.
Again, the supply because even these daughters had been done to the monastery - as did they
are now talking in poor families? Their legacy was in fact or in thought distributed, who liked
it to this unworldly, socially dead family members issue? [77] were also those nuns were good
for the world and alienated even some to life. Lastly, if not discouraged nor religious or religious
concerns, so It was yet another fear: the fiefs of most relatives of the nuns were in the
land of the bearded Duke, which is a fierce enemy of the Reformation and the Wittenberg Doctor in the
special was. As it was for abduction of consecrated nuns sensitive Penalties or at least give
Resetting by courtly offices.

In short the request of the monastery volatile Nuns was refused [78].

Such was the poorest of everyone to leave there, in no small danger that its project detected
and prevented, the parties would be punished but sensitive, as for example the oft-mentioned
Florentina was discovered was when her intention to step out of the monastery. This was from her
own cousin, the Abbess, merciless hardness of four weeks in the cold weather locked in prison,
then ban and fine in her cell, had to be flat to church throw on the ground and Hinsch ride
the other nuns can be, eating with a Strohkränzlein before the Prioress put on the ground, then
it was a new attempt to turn to their relatives, durchgestäupt and "7 Wednesday and Fridays 7 of
10 people at once discipliniert, chained and locked forever in the
cell - to them by Erin closed her carelessness but escaped.

Such or similar is not in the monastery Nimbschen with the Lutheran minded happened; perhaps protected
them against such violent measures by their large number. But it was probably the ethos of understanding
abbess, which prevented such a Punishment: Margarete of Haubitz is indeed afterwards with all the remaining
convention converted to the Reformation, although with the older women remained in the monastery
and the life in it according to evangelical principles set up.

Not at all but could not and did it as early as 1523 the Abbess Monastery fugitives Abet in their
projects [79].

Since the nuns were on their own people is no evidence, they had just cause, elsewhere to seek
help and advice on how they could have it. They feel that they penetrated and forced to save
their souls and conscience [80]. Where else but they should seek this assistance, as by him
that she carried his evangelical writings and intellectual daring deeds on these thoughts had to be
related?

So she's made so well for them as several others, single and whole bunch of monastery of virgins:
they wrote "the erudite Dr. Martin Luther at Wittenberg, a complaint letter and wretched writing,
gave him her mind and sought to identify by him solace, advice and assistance "[81].

And the bearer of this letter in any case will have been no one else than Leonhard Koppe of Torgau.
Luther acknowledged that "they both have to help and advise, and therefore they are also guilty
of duty to save the souls of Christian love and conscience "[82].

"For the need is high," he explained, with reference to the nuns from the convent, "that Unfortunately,
the children can go to the monasteries, but where no daily exercise
of God's word is so rarely or never heard the gospel right.

This cause is alone enough that the souls are ripped out and stolen,
as can be, whether a thousand oaths and vows had been done.

But because God does not like service, it is willing to go because of the heart, it follows
that no vow shall continue as long as there is joy and love, or else are in the monastic life
terrible dangers, temptations and sins "[83].

"But if angry now weak souls to such a monastery robbery?" Could be argued.

Luther said: "Go scandal, scandal here! Not breaking iron and has no anger. I will protect the weak
conscience, provided it can be done without danger of my soul, where not, I will advise my soul,
then it annoyed the whole or half the world. Now here lies the danger in every soul. Therefore,
let no one ask of us that we not bother him, but we should desire that they endorse our thing
and not get angry. This calls for the love! "[84]

So thought Luther and his like-minded was Leonhard Koppe. Luther turned to him now the suggestion
that the exemption to take over. And Koppe, despite his sixty years, a determined man, a bold
venture prepared and agreed, and he took no account of whether he
in business could harm, much less whether it will bring the Court
into disfavour or even go to life could, for standing on nuns rape
actually death penalty, and Elector Frederick, cautious guard Luther
disapproved not only of any public act of violence, but was also inclined
to punish them.

But despite all these concerns, Leonhard Koppe was indeed determined, and was encouraged by the pastor
Torgauer D. Zwilling, for this was in the case initiated [85].

Between Luther and Koppe has been agreed the plan. The company is the act of Torgau, which was
located in the middle between Nimbschen and Wittenberg. The Easter season was to Execution can be
seen.

Koppe but needed helpers to run his business. He chose his brother Son, a daring young man,
and a civil Wolfgang Tommi Cz (or Dommitsch), whose Stepdaughter,
a girl of Seidewitz to escape shortly before the monastery was, and
soon on a beaten Augustine Provost, Mag Nicholas Demuth married, which
then Amtsschöffer was in Torgau.

The nine young women were definitely monastery dating been made and they made ready for flight
[86].

During Holy Week, now the Torgau broke on one or more to a Blah covered
Car in which they had concealed most secular women's clothes, from
their city.

If the two helpers not initiated their own cars, they were on horseback covering it. You Grimsby came on
Holy Saturday evening on the 4th April before Nimbschen to [87].

Here, the nuns were preparing as usual to the Ostervigilien that night in the resurrection were
celebrated. The extraordinary time when the parent rule and occupation of Nuns were repealed,
must have seemed the escape rates. While the two will be kept companion in the nearby woods,
drove Koppe prior to the monastery. He took as reported, is an excuse to take tons of herring empty
on the way home to Torgau to do. The prospecting and charge them, he seems to Thorwart Thalheim deals
and the attention of the other inhabitants of the monastery square comment, including the two confessors,
have to be distracted. From the examination of the nine conspirators escaped, either by the gatekeeper
deceived or even participate in the plan was (it was pretty good too from these nine of these be time
Thürhüterin). An old rapporteur told they had broken through a mud wall; another, the young
women had gathered in the garden and there are climbing over the wall. But also to the back
door they could have escaped, for the security of this was it lacks the monastery. In short,
the escaped nine were from the two companions Koppes Date, this probably drove his car off innocently
tons of herring and then took Outside the young women.

The empty casks - forward set - could very well serve to the living contents of the car to hide
from uninvited eyes [88].

In this or similar manner, in any case "in an exceptionally deliberation and cunning," but with
"extreme audacity" - not with violence, the nine young women by Koppe Nimbschen free. Luther,
it looked almost like a miracle to [89].

Under cover of darkness now the rescuers and rescued drove away, the Easter morning contrary: it was
its own Ostervigilie in the air of freedom through the spring young God's world [90]. The ride
went through the electoral land was not threatened by the plots Duke George of the Lutheran
enemy. A prosecution of Nimbschen from was not to fear: there were no men who had dared such
a fight with the kidnappers. Also, the wise Koppe certainly covered their tracks as possible
and the pursuers misled. The secular dress, which reversed the young women now with their spiritual
had probably made the journey quietly, and then the train came freely on Easter in Torgau, which
has been received from the master, twin joy.

In Torgau was stayed, the secular dress of the monastery of virgins in the rush and still complete
the other Day we went to Wittenberg, because it did not yet advised the fugitives so close
to the Monastery and to have even so close to the Electoral Court
[91].

On Easter Tuesday came on the train in Wittenberg, without any equipment at their borrowed and
hastily gathered clothing, with the shaved heads, a "poor little people", but in their great poverty
and fear quite patient and cheerful [92].

Luther received them with wistful joy. The bold but he said, "You have a new plant be done,
say, sing like this country and its people and that many hawk for great harm: but consider
it with God's great saints be praised for. You have the poor souls from the prison of human
tyranny just passed around the right time: at Easter, when Christ also of his prison captured
[93]. Then when driving home the liberators, he recommended God gave them and they with regards
to Koppes' love Audi "and" all the friends in Christ "[94].

Three days later, Luther wrote to account for themselves, for the "blessed Robbers Koppe and
it aligned with him, and in the liberated young women to teach all
wanted to follow the example that "the qualities and ways Fürsicht
Leonhard Koppe, citizens Torgau, my special friends "an open letter.

"On that word I say all of us, for me, who's advised and commanded, and for you and the Euern
that's been your report, and for the young women who have needed salvation, I will hereby shortly
before God and around the world give account and answer ". In this "cause and answer that young
women Monasteries may leave divine "he says open the act and the reasons for and identifies the Behalf
of the liberators and the liberated. He says to them:

"Be certain that God has so ordained, and not your own work or advice, and let the cries of those
who blame it for the very worst work. , Fie, fie! " they will say, , Has the fool Leonhard Koppe
be caught by the damn heretical monk, travels and identifies nine nuns from the convent at once,
and helps them to their vows and monastic Deny life and leave '. Do you think this is all kept
secret and hidden? Yes, betrayed and sold, rushed at me the whole monastery would Nimptzschen,
because they now hear that I was the robber! But that I proclaim such and not secret think,
I do from bona fide reasons. It is by me not excited about it secretly should be, because what
we do, we do in God and not afraid of us at the light. Wanted God, I could save this or another,
all caught conscience and all the monasteries single (empty) do. I want to shy away from it
not after it, to confess and all who are to would have helped, (in) the confidence that Christ, who
then brought his gospel of day, and the end of Christ (Antichrist)
destroy Reich, would be here a patron, whether it's the life would
cost.

Second, I thu's, the poor children and their friendship (relationship) to obtain honor that
no one can say that they were running loose through dishonest boys and seek their glory in danger.
The third to warn the master of the nobility and all pious Bieder people, so have children
in monasteries, to do this and even take them out "[95].

This call and the successful escape of the nine nuns encouraged, as Luther thought, other monastery
young women and their parents for the same. escaped That same Easter week again, three nuns from
Nimbschen and came to their relatives, and Pentecost, back three of their relatives even brought
from the monastery [96].

As at last took courage, the abbot of Pforta who is not an open letter opposing Luther had ventured,
- Luther was a formidable warrior.

On 9 June, he wrote a complaint to the - Electors for their actions which led to the "Entrottung
and destruction of the monastery," and complained that the nuns of Sister Electoral. Gn. Subjects
and helped to promote were addressed. The Elector Frederick was known in his diplomatic way, the
evasive Answer: "Once we know nit how this thing BPAs and how the
monastery of virgins such Furnehmen their causes and we previously
thought things like this and never so We let's stay in their self-responsibility
"[97].

But for the monastery in Nimbschen escape was not over. Until
1526 some twenty - Also Magdalena von Bora - resigned, so that now
only 19 young women were there Monastery; and these were Protestant,
including its abbess, but remained in the monastery until the Convention
disbanded in 1545 [98]. Three
years later she started again negotiations with Taubenheim. Your letter is in the original notation
as follows:

"Grace VND Fride yn Christo zuuor, stern, ernuester, mr geuatter. You is WOL knowingly, as
I asked for Dreyer Eg vngeferlich jaren that myr thats good Booß "myt seyne belonging thereto vmb
eynen gained Lichen zynß to Meyner teglichen hawßhaltung as other eynem might be left, as
well as meyn mr bey doctor Brug [226] diselbige zeyt therefore encouraged, but same things vorblieben
times that ego get Mecht, vylleycht that no loss has been doselbst of be-ing Lord, who has
had vmb the zynß ynnen. I byn informed but, as the pitcher from Brato which ynnengehabt DYSS
zeyt it should iezund loßgeschrieben have such well where these things were so, my freuntliche
to bytte You love gossips mynen So, you want myr zw such vmb be good fodder same zynß, ßo
EYN other gybt, wylle ego of herczen like to take the VND zynße deglich to Zwen orth vberychen.
Please gancz freuntlich, eg wolde myr Ewer schreyben mind Wyder the VND best advise anzceygen
yn DYSS case saying, I find something hyrin vnbyllichs woldet Begert VND which myt not stadgeben
yrem argkwone, ßolde I ALSS these things good for me Odder Meyne children hereditary begeren
who thought yn meyn hercz never come synd. I hope to God that he would Meynell children, they
live ßo VND to VND were fromlich keep honest, dam WOL heritage, bytte Alleyne, the myRS vmb
a jar Odder Zwey liked eynen zymlichen fertility zynß be left damyt I mean housekeeping VND vyhe
deste bek (w) might receive emer, weyl you all alhier vfs kewfen tewerst must place VND myr
those of nearby, Being Useful SSSR liked. I I love Mr. Meynell iczt yn dvßer things do not
complain, zuschreyben to you, of creating sunst VYL is also needful on that meyn Eg antragen
ferrer these things to ymandes Odder the m. g'sten lord wolde let go, ßunder ßo Ir such myne
bytte for byllich order may know that the IRS myt schoßzer zw Seyda wolt that such well-myr
vmb eynen fertility zynß as eynen others might be eyngethan. Domyt seyet bepholen God. Given in Wyttembergk,
Monday after Jubilate ym 1539th Jhare.

Catherina Lutherynu "[227].

Again, nothing came of the lease. Contrast, in the following year came Mrs. Katherine unexpectedly to
a separate manor, which belonged to her personally, even as jointure,
and their value, the had to be, as it was the last of the genetic
material of the Bora, which, otherwise, the family apparently was
stopped completely lost.

It was the small estate Zulsdorf that had taken her brother Hans seven years ago, but despite the
dowry of the widow of Apollonia Seidewitz, whom he married in hold, could not or was too small
for him to feed themselves. It was indeed located far away from Wittenberg; about two days'
journey, but she drew it out after this their alleged former home and her future dower. Thus, the
neighbor of Mrs. Katherine Amsdorf, Bishop from Naumburg, where they now sendeth greeting her
as "gracious neighbor and gossip. Her husband did everything, "the new queen worthy of use in
their empire" and dubbed it since then as the "Zulsdorferin", "the
lady of Zulsdorf" or "Your Grace wife of Bora and Zulsdorf "[228].

Here in their "new kingdom" and private property was her enterprising that strong Spirit really
want to pleasure and exercise and create a new one and plow. For the Small estate was dilapidated,
the country dilapidated a "desert-Mark", the edifices. She tore down, built, repaired, drove werkt
and took it, as usual, the help of friends their house in claim that the Lord had to deliver by
the end of their oats and seed, the von Einsiedel Car make, Spalatin accommodate their teamsters.
She put a lot of money into it, the elector gave her oak beams and other wood and 600 fl "pardon",
but that was enough to Kitty's pain not for repair and condition
of keeping the run-down property, so Luther writes that in the first
year: "You wasted this year there, which was created"

[229].

It was the doctor's anger and all sorts of misfortune: the oak on it by the elector had instructed
in the Old Forest and the Burger King himself chose, make left them, to have them cut into boards
for a Scheunlein. But when she came with her cart, pick up the trees, they were sold by the
bailiff or misappropriated. And it had brought suit be petitioned again and negotiate until you
return to the wood was instructed and Kathe Loads could get. More inconvenience experienced
the landowner with the neighbors Zulsdorf of the Kieritzscher farmers, which affect their grazing
rights. So had it in 1541 for months in front of the magistrate Heinrich von Einsiedel to Borna
with those of Kieritzsch to litigate.

The verdict of the electors was favorable for the Lutherans, they had " in the quality probably
more concerned with peace and good neighborliness sake granted "[230].

Still disgusted the doctor is not the possession.

For weeks, especially when traveling Luther was located, Ms. Kitty in her new possession, so that
her husband some of the epistle had to write there. Thus, in the autumn (13 September), 1541,
where they may with some children Fruit harvest was there. As he writes: "I love sluts housewives
Käthe von Bora attention.

GUF! Dear Kate! I will hereby Urban run to Thee, that thou shalt not
be afraid, whether a cry from the Turks would come to you.

And I am surprised that you absolutely nothing in her write or entbeutst,
so you know well that we are not here without a care for you because
Mainz, Heinz and thousands of nobility in Meissen us are very hostile.

Sell ​​order, and what you can, and come home.

Because when I look's, I will rain's dirty, and our sins God will punish with his wrath. Hereby
ordered to God, Amen.

Sundays by Lamperti 1541st

M. Luther, "[231].

Still at Wittenberg Katherine was often away with her thoughts on her favorite seat, that addressed
her husband: "The rich women to Zulsdorf, women doctor Katharin Luth Erin, physically residing
at Wittenberg and Zulsdorf spiritual wandering, my darling.

"Even Luther held sometimes in the quiet Oertlein on the recovery and send letters from here and
greetings from my Kitty and Mr Zulsdorf "[232].

Probably because Zulsdorf turned too remote and too little was profitable, so in the past Years
Katharina their eyes on the good wax village near Wittenberg, an hour of it, beyond Located on
the same fertile soil, surrounded by high forest; certainly rather swampy. It was † of Dr.
Sebald Münsterers children and was the division of an estate for sale. But there was nothing
thereof; especially after driving the Chancellor Brück the acquisition.

Even the doctor was with this huge expansion of the economy can not quite agree although the house saying:
"Self-Wat is dat good" very well known and recognized and said, a
happy marriage was nothing but a blessing of God which no one know,
"fear of God and as . Everything has to buy in the market "He could
not depend in this household, he said, that the worry and bustle around
the big budget they may depart in quiet, comfortable, mental way to
live for yourself and him and their children.

He also complained of occasional 1527 so already, the many servants who were needed in the
far-term running household there were several maids, 1534, a coachman, and later even a swineherd.
He said: "I have too many servants. "More servants than it is today were common even in these times
and Ms Kitty is herein may have gone a little further, which probably flock to the many servants
in the monastic life might hang together [233].

But it is conceivable that the doctor's wife was intent on its economy
.

Expand It was not just the adventurous That force of the energetic woman who wanted to create
something new and dominate a large area, it was also the concern for the needs the large budget
itself, but it was especially the effort to the economic future is not small family for ages,
but especially for my widowhood and the Waisentum her five children to save, by Luther in the hands
of vulnerable liquid Good money in fixed transformed.

So at the end was all the property of the Lutheran family from a farm, the great and small house, the cloister
garden, the "tree garden" on the Saumarkt, the hop garden the "fat" and two hooves country. That
was a pretty extensive property, in addition to the large and spacious house farm really caused
much trouble and took a lot of time and effort so that no one understands where Käthe only took
the time to get all this and be overlooked. And we understand that she was sometimes too much
and the violent, impatient Man could not sometimes meet rapidly enough so that he laments: "I'm
in an unhappy Stern was born, perhaps the Saturn, what to do to make
me and can never be finished be, tailors, shoemakers, bookbinders,
my wife drag me out onto the longest "But he must. apologize in the
same time, the much troubled wife nor where they have a child at her
breast and one cherished by the heart: "It is difficult to feed two
guests, one in the house and the other at the door, "and he recognizes
their efforts and concerns for?".

My wolf's hat better than I and my Kate "[234].

The doctor's wife was also a hard-working woman does. It has also in its areas of violence
and tirelessly managed and created his own as the doctor in the.

Of course in the morning at 4 clock in the summer, by 5 clock in the winter, and often even
earlier, was on them, and therefore probably told her husband and their fellow citizens, "Käthe von
Bora is the morning star of Wittenberg. "And so she was at work until night at 9 clock, where
the doctor inexorably urged to go to bed. Of course she had a strong, powerful body and was in contrast
to her ailing husband much, so well that almost never from an illness Message occurs. It is only
once the question that one evening she was weak and got a fever, so that her husband became alarmed
and said: "Dear Kate, I so do not die."

Another time, since DM Luther spoke with a number of tables, they walked into the room and
fell faint. But that was all temporary discomfort. Only an illness she went through following
a premature birth, or they have been seems to be healthy into old age [235].

Not only had Kitty's relentless bustle virtue, but they also knew
to lead the regiment in house kitchen and cellar, in the brewery and
back home, garden and field, in the children and servants' quarters,
as mother and wife as hostess and mistress, as a "preacher, Bräuerin,
gardener, and what can it be so, "and with respect to them, and the
Hausregentin "Kitchen champion," Luther wrote to the edge of his house
book:

"The eyes of women cook well More than maid servant and fire
and carbon [236].

  
  

Of course, Luther himself was no less industrious, even with physical work; especially in the early years:
he likes gärtelte and much, grub, sowed, grafted, and he also turner on his own lathe. Both
certainly looked like Mrs. Lara, not only because some daily wage and craftsman saved, but because
it also Luther's health had been beneficial. Less She had fallen over in his bachelor days
taken from the slope, his clothes to repair itself. The doctor did to this art much too good and
it seemed to be clever, as the German tailor, which would bring no well-fitting pants ready. Since woman
was Kathe one day not to their low amazement and annoyance of her boys a pair of pants, from
where a piece was cut out: and when she inquired, was the dear husband the patch to mend his
own pants used [237]! -

It has been a blessed house, the former place of tranquility. Up there in the study the great doctor,
with assiduous diligence and the traditional industry of a peasant son auskaufte his time for the
spiritual household of the Church, and down the Hospitable housewife in true German activity and
loyalty to her house, devoted to her husband and the Children, the servants and friends, and
their pride and glory it was to do everything and to do everything.

Sun ruled Ms Kitty in their "business".

9. Chapter

"Whimsical account between D. Martin and Katherine."

A property, as it had the Lutheran couple in the end the father of not less Assets. Where and how
this power was now together?

Catherine well as Luther brought nothing into the marriage. They were at the beginning of their
household and far away completely assets into it was only after his parents' death (1530-31)
inherited Luther a little ready money of 250 florins In 1527 he was still completely without possessions,
he was poor and a beggar, was neither house, lands, in his favor, money or property to his wife
and child to leave if he were then dead. Because the monastery property was not be pronounced
property.

"Poverty is my mistake and my heresy," said He still 1530; and two years later he has a cup in the
treasure chest. Only in 1534 was he refuse to buy for a few hundred guilders the little house
Bruno: he wanted his Poverty can not be revealed because it's considered
impossible to ever even half such sum together [238].

In the absence of a dowry brought the couple had to rely on the grade, which had the householder,
and the merit of which the mistress of the building the goods and
their cost-table moved.

Officials salaries at that time were not merely a fixed salary, but were in all sorts of honor gifts,
mostly in kind, which the employees on special Occasions and for special services as travel,
expert opinions, reports, writings Others, accruing from the princes and city governments.

Since his marriage was Luther's salary increased from one hundred to two hundred guilders been.
Of 1532 from under Elector Johann Friedrich, 100 a year were more bushels of corn, 100 bushels
of malt for two Gebräude beer, 60 (later 100) cords of wood and two loads of hay added. Of course,
remained the supplies of "indignation of" the officials sometimes. The electoral Keller at
Wittenberg was the outstanding professors always open. Moreover, it came from Court to all
manner of victuals: wine, cider, vinegar, fruit, fish, game, medicine, and clothes and cloth.
Sun 1543 sends the elector "two barrels, one with old wine, the other with wine tavern Most grown,
Suptezer, so good to us the almighty God has bestowed this year,
the wollet accept our account of good will and enjoy happiness.

" Also, the Danish King Christian III. sent in the last years (1543) first butter and herring,
but when they go with this "kitchen dining deal indecent", was to send in a gift 50 fl transformed.
So much were the other Wittenberg theologians Bugenhagen and Jonas: it was an honorarium, the Saxon
prince of God for the training of its scholars to the University paid [239].

When the Elector John of Luther in the household dissolution of the monastery in the value of
20 fl and the kitchen equipment, which were sold by 50 fl left, so it was a compensation the fact
that he had his long time teaching load of victuals or not receive
scarce.

For the household, he had "the church and university preaching, reading, writing, etc. the long
years ago for God's will and served for nothing, and for the kitchen equipment had Nuns and monks
(thieves and rogues sometimes) dressed, and dined with such versorget Benefits that I and my £
100, so I m. . Gn Hans H. Herzog paid to housekeeping, I even added heartily, "[240].

Similarly, the gifts of the Wittenberg only consideration. Thus, the City Council from his distillery
building materials, as bricks and lime, do not count, gave also otherwise an annual gift or
special gratitude, as Luther in the Easter period each Day had preached, half a salmon, anno 1529
the woman doctor in the absence of her husband 10 Thaler, "because he did this year no other worship".
But Luther was not content was about thirty years of the town preacher, had also often still
in the shorter Bugenhagen or longer, once even when the latter reformed away, two years (1535-37)
represented. Luther also had its costs "to their church service and users' servants hold without
the "common case" somewhat contributed to them. Luther was also a
large space in front Bodo nothing to the city from permitting, also,
that his whole estate after his death and the annex also in his lifetime
was placed under the civil rights, while It was quite free in advance.
Likewise, Luther wanted, as the Elector in 1542 a Turkish tax invited
tenders, although he was due to tax-free, but the sample estimated
because of his [241]. The fact that the nuns also being character and
temperament were different, of course, but all spiritual individuality (all "property") was extinguished
by the monastic rule and monastic discipline as well as the biological diversity by the same costume:
nuns also wear a uniform intellectual. These are friendships prohibited. From some peculiarity
of a sister we learn nothing. Only the abbess Margaret of Haubitz later characterized as "honest
(do), pious, sensible Woman "[40].

Whether the new monastery young wife Katharina von Bora on her or other relatives from the maternal Sex
is a Annehmerin have found is not to say. But it was not a priori the relationship with the
abbess a reason for a friendly treatment. For a simultaneously with Catherine into another
monastery occurred young nun complained that her aunt, the abbess, was proceed particularly
violent and cruel to her. Maybe Catherine has a kind of motherly friend of her other relatives from
the paternal Gender is found, the former infirmary champion Magdalena von Bora, because this
later as "Aunt Lena" so intimately to Catherine and her new family followed [41].

First, the young girl introduced in the Rule and the service was accustomed to monastic behavior
and spiritual thinking and being taught in some knowledge and skills. In no particular Nimbschen
novices is called; It was only by the abbot with the introduction of the new abbess 1509 in general,
again as Rule, enjoined: "Because it is a work of piety and mercy, the unlearned learned to
make, we want those who understand more among young women, the others, and strive to teach and instruct,
in the knowledge that they have a large Reward for this effort received, and that through this
employment much ease To avoid what the youth are invited been tilted. "But of course, all the elders
Boys set a good example.

As "the key of religion" was first, wherever it was prescribed by
Rule, absolute silence to be observed - in addition to the unconditional
obedience, to which get used to the novice, had the most important
and highest point of the monastic life.

For it should be given an account of every idle word not only before God's tribunal, but also
in the confession of the priest. Rather, the monastery of young women outside the prescribed
prayer times and the lessons in special prayers with the groom Christ, talk or listen in silence
in contemplation of what God speaks to them. So was strictly to see that the children and adolescent
young women do not run about and talked, but modestly behaved and silent.

It was then in dress and attitude, in gesture and speech, the right-nun-like nature to acquire.
"In the place of repentance," it was necessary to "the greatest simplicity of dress, showing
or decorate with worldly garments, nor with the fringes of the Pharisees,
"but the habits pull up to the shoulders.

The face of the novices had to learn always to tilt. "For the shame is the guardian of virginity,
the precious jewel that the spiritual daughters to keep. Then let them with sighs and mourning
the lost Time for the arrival of the heavenly bridegroom which await his fiance - in faith
and hl. Profession of the Lord is always waiting - with exultation in his bridal chamber leads.

"That
they defile themselves but not with the vices of the property, which in religion is the worst
and most damnable and a power of the devil, they should, on pain of excommunication all gifts
from friends and others out there not as their legal claim, but the Abbess rich, and humbly ask
of you the rest. "

The boss ate while on the special table, and had better food and drink: so they got real beer, however, the
only Konventualinnen "Kofent" (Convention-ie thin-beer) [646] but equitable treatment of all
the monasteries young women in food and beverages were the abbess
made mandatory, and the meals were for conventional morality monastery
to do nothing left [42].

"Hard meals and amusements" were among the sisters from the abbess allowed.

These regulations, to which in Nimbschen at the launch of the new Abbess Abbot Visitor had a kind
of pastoral letter as an explanation and given supplements of the Rule were all Quarterly chapters
read in the Convention and by the Abbess or Prioress point for Said point so that each monastery young
woman - but especially the newcomers - from itself the monastic way
of life and life means were accepted.

In such a strict monastic discipline now the girl was introduced. Although the practice - As
we saw with any visitation, particularly in prescribing useless speeches - from the theory
was different, but it was at this time a serious stramme compliance
with the Rule performed in Nimbschen.

It had been just about 1500 here, as in other monasteries a "reformation" of the ruined monastery
aspires order [43].

In addition to this education to religious life, there were also some lessons that the religious
life the storm.

The novices had to learn to read - what was then the curly script and the nor curly style was not
so easy [44]. Even into Latin, the nuns had barely because the readings and prayers, especially
the songs were mostly in: to be introduced written language of the church - even if it with the understanding
not just the foreign language far away was: sing after all church choirs today in village
communities and Latin hymns Fairs. Catherine has also learned to write in the monastery, even if
it later - much like all employed women did not write a lot and likes to strangers and highly
placed persons their thoughts rather told a student or master's degree in the spring. Otherwise
could not all the nuns of this art. A real school, where the Schulmeidlein were taught there
was not, but some nuns were able to exit their girls' school champions to be, the sister of
Staupitz and Elsa von Kanitz [45].

The song played a big role in the Monastery: were they all religious
exercises most of jointly, and had thus become a choir singing.

It was a master singer or song (Chapel master) ordered, which had to practice the songs. And in
the convent was an old "Song Book", which in 1417 bought for 2 pence, and the shock to Grimsby
margravial Vogt had been paid. But it was in the monastery from his songs come up and it was against
the rule of the late Father Bernard too fast and not equal (ie, rhythmic) sung, and came up
with the nonsense that suddenly sang all soon, sometimes a few votes, the abbot of Pforta
therefore ordered that about a syllable, the other will sing, unanimously and with the same Voice,
not too high and too low [46].

In 1509, when Katharina von Bora was ten years, they had no food or
child Schulmeidlein more, but was already counted in the monastery
virgins.

She was so for the time being at least "Postulant, candidate for the benefice. Since most of the
fourteenth year, the decisive year was for the monastic vows, she would begin her novitiate with the
thirteenth and Year can do it profession. It is striking that this changes with Catherine postponed
for two years, and even the later occurring younger Ave Schoenfeld front of her with her older
sister Margaret was confirmed [47].

With his 15th Year, then was Katharina von Bora after the tradition
of the collection of the Abbess "Specified"

(proposed) and adopted by the Convention. In solemn ceremonies in the church were cut her hair, sprinkled
with sprinkler and censer and perfumed holy garments dressed, the white robe pulled over, the
white village (the Headscarf (velum, the so-called veil)) wrapped around my head, this was the
Heavenly Bride the white rosary set up and the Saviour out in the crucifix as a groom in his
arms, Then they promised him by the sacrifice of the ring and vowed eternal purity. Then was
the humble postulant of the series to the Abbess and nuns of each of the individual feet, was
lifted from them and with a kiss as a sister in the Community Date [48].

Now Catherine came under the strict discipline of an older nun, and had in this trial period
Seriously all the many things to practice in posture and gait, gesture
and speech in which a nun observed at every turn when they sin not
against the rules and has therefore will undergo penance.

People tell a nun: "The trial year was only that we as religious learned and we tried hard to medal
if we "[49].

Finally, in 1515, "Mondays after Confessoris Francisci", ie on 8 October, was Catherine's "Eynseghnug.
Since they had to "do profess, that is the eternally binding take
monastic vows.

It it will be gone like that other nun who was confirmed at this time also and of itself says: "The
night before my profession I said the abbess of the whole assembly chapter: it was to me the
difficulty of the present rule and ask me if I would be minded to keep? would be not necessary,
because I would have been in the outfitting sufficiently committed. And if I had been asked however,
I would say nothing may, I would have helped. "The consecration was going on and that was
Catherine of "Bhor" the only dedicated on this day. She donated it to the monastery of the
few what they could, 30 pence [50].

Not grudgingly, but they (have grown old, Luther), said, without "their will" Catherine was obliged
as the daughter of Blessed Father Bernard.

Nevertheless, it has in the monastic rule, not only joined, but also "hot and busy and often
prayed" [51].

This is equivalent to its entire decisive nature as it reveals mature later. You was indeed taught
by "good works" in particular monastic works, we acquire the heavenly goods and monetary assets
and a high seat blessed in the afterlife, so strained all power and all the hard work in acquiring
such wealth and spiritual exercises to earn a good seat in heaven. What it later as a woman once
attacked, the They also sought with all the force and strength of their will, and it will
also have held in the convent as a nun. Also cultivate young people monastery, especially female,
the most eager to be in the exercise of the duties, even if none of enthusiasm to have.

And now what the young nun works for high and holy duties had to be
done?

Almost the entire life of the monastery filled spiritual exercises of their whole day's work was
Praying, singing, reading, uplifting things, "there" listening, as expressed in a monastic
rule, "all Exam and spiritual people are conceived and that they serve our Lord and God and fill for
the living and the dead and all Gebresthafte requests. They were now out of the exhibition
singing and the private prayers nor particularly common prayer seven times, the Hours: Matins Tierce,
Sext, None in the morning, Vespers and Compline in the evening with psalms, martyrologies, precepts.
Night church services were also committed: Metten and vigils. And even while eating, where
silence was called for, was reading from a devotional book.

Alternately had Catherine also hold themselves to this course and then had desserts [52].

The impact these rules to a natural feeling and religious mind to make , we had heard from a later
report: "As the nuns D. Martinus statutes read that even cold-written and had made it very sighed
and said, "That one must uphold and has vermisset seeing that God's word! Look just what a Stockmeisterei
and torture of Conscience is Gewest in the papacy, as it horas canonicas and the traditions of men,
penetrated like Hugo wrote that those who left out a syllable, not
even ausbetete, would account give it at the last Court [53].

"

Whether Catherine has ever held an office in the Convention, we do
not, in any case, this only be a lower, such as that of a "sick champion.

But probably it was too young, but that so many of her predecessors, the series would have been
[54].

  It was real work in the monastery
  not: the nuns were not allowed in the exam, and domestic work in
the kitchen and the office managed to lay sisters and maids monastery.

Course so completely unemployed as some noble monastic orders, of which the popular joke says:

Dresses and clothes Is everything than what the German master.

- Elapsed so slow to the People of the nuns. Could they be but with needlework like spiders on
the yield of the large flocks of sheep for wool clothing issue, especially But with embroidery,
such as altar cloths, vestments, tapestries, flags, etc., in Nimbschen,
probably in Pforta for the church of the local monks and perhaps also
for the Bishop of Meissen, under which the monastery stood [55].

That at least has some sister Catherine elaborate embroidery manufactured, if the various handicrafts, which
nowadays when and there by Kate Luther shown, probably all are not real.

A certain amount of entertainment granted nor the inspection and maintenance of the numerous relics
pieces which were stored up in the Nimbschen church and what it was to decorate and to keep
order. It was probably because of the 12 altars in crosses, Monstrance, capsules, tablets four
hundred hectoliters. Particles. So from Christ's table, cross and nativity scene, apparel, and blood
and sweat towel, the stone and soil, where Jesus wept over Jerusalem, in the sweat of death lashed
prayed, sat, was crucified, went to heaven, from the hair, shirt, skirt, grave of St. Virgin,
the apostles all kinds of bones, and blood Pauli, and apparel from
the main John the Baptist; of many saints, known and unknown: the
11,000 Virgins, St.. Elizabeth of Thuringia, St. Genoveva, the hl.
Nonnosus, St. Libin teeth, hands, arms, bones, veils, carpets - also
Particles from the column by Christopher, from the cross of the thief
and others [56].

But again, the seniors had among other things, Magdalena von Bora, the custody of the holy. Capsules.

Before
all these relics were certain Antiphonies sung, a certain variety
were in the daily worship.

A change in the eternal monotony brought the many festivals, processions and parades in the cloister
and in the churchyard [57].

A big deal was the visitation of the monastery by the abbot of Pforta - admittedly a costly: the
abbot and his companions had picked up and brought home again and
on the go and be treated, in the monastery, also commonly considered
with this information [58].

When Visitation there was an investigation of all abuses, an interrogation of all the individual
nurses and Finally, an often harsh decision.

It also came to the high holidays and their octaves pilgrims to the monastery, for this had various
princes of the church indulgences, though only 40 days obtained for visitors and benefactor
of the monastery, for hearing of sermons and squat when Aveläuten [59].

The main drain but was on a special by year, probably at the dedication (23 August). There was
fair and fair in favor of the monastery as the "drain" (as in Bayern "Dult" Indulgence = = drain).
To this day came from far and wide the people.

If thus Nimbschen year "release" was fronweise had come from every village monastery three
men and "to prevent quarrels, day and night to get to keep guard." Of all the Life and activity,
however saw the sisters as good as nothing if they also on their Retreat from the noise outside
could hear [60].

However, the abbess took when emigrating again, one and the other sister; But of course the younger
nuns came probably difficult. Since it went to Grimsby, the nearby small town, or even to distant
Torgau, the electoral seat on the Elbe, where now the grand palace was built rock hard. There,
the monastery had many possessions of farmland, and had to bring their own dishes with corn,
while the city different Gebräude beer had to bring themselves. These were, however, was many
things in Torgau sold or bought was brought there and back.

Was purchased especially for the alderman and Schöffer Leonhard Koppe, eg tonnes of herring, panniers
(rear racks) full stock of fish, pike, Barrels of beer, axes. Especially those purchases occurred
Martini, where "Madame," The abbess, with a dignified Virgin took the interest in the hostel, some
"To spend on drink" penny was and shopped for Koppe and personally paid the bill [61].

These were the special events in the constant monotony of the year. In all their time in the monastery
Katharina von Bora saw nothing particularly extraordinary. Some of the nuns went off with death. After
long and Katharina von Bora Ave by Schoenfeld youngsters in the monastery had been, came in on
year 1516 with 9 children fare: 3 Schellenberger, 2 Hawbitzen (Relatives of Catherine's mother's
side), 1 Lauschkin, 1 Keritzin (Kieritsch?), 1 Possin, 1 Buttichin. The following year three
newcomers entered the monastery Association, and a year later came back off some food and other children
in. [62]. 1522 was a change of abbots (Provost) by the old, Johann Kretschmar died. The nuns
were very much to their pastor, while the confessors were hated, for this, "the two men at the gate"
behaved demanding and overbearing, mingled - probably out of boredom - in things that you do
not came on did, in the administration, that is in the business district of the provost to
talk moreover, incited the nuns against one another, so that even often complaints were issued
against them and the Convention even had to call the civil power against them and against
their protectors, the abbots of Pforta, [63]. Since there were now even in these years a welcome
opportunity for the monks a trick to beat. For 1513, the head came from the Martini Hospital
of the Holy Ghost Order from the Far Pforzheim in Swabia, Matthias Heuthlin, and offered the
nuns a privilege. Because his institute that is not enough income had he had the Pope Julius II obtained
the grace that all the benefactors of the hospital approved the election of the confessor was.
So was the Abbess and Domina all the laudable collection of the monastery a contributing and for
receiving a printed with the name "Niimitsch" completed and the master domus de Hospitalis Pfortzheim
ord S. Spirit. signed piece of paper, after which the monastery Nimbschen for his charity in the Brotherhood
of St. Spirit of the Order and except for all the good works and pardons him and partake of
them was particularly welcome, from any secular or monastic confessor
absolution of sins, transgressions and crimes, even those which were
subject to the Apostolic See, once in life and in death, as often
as necessary, appeared to be granted. This privilege is the monastery
by repeated doses in the following years (1516, 1519, 1520) share
in [64]. "Why,"
he said, "Lena is so black." But soon she liked him well, and it seemed the longer The more
that it was Lina. The doctor hung the Kontrefaktur against the table on the wall in the Prince's
room, where he ate and forgot about the dimensions much thought to the picture. "[172]

The girl was treated differently from the father the son. This was taken seriously and Luther wanted
to leave him nothing to be good. But he joked with his daughter more. In contrast, the mother
moved naturally from the son, especially the first-born, and sought
the mitigate father severity against him [173].

On the eve of Luther's birthday, 9 November 1531, met at Wittenberg monastery in the black
another son a, which was granted the father's name. As now the youngest has now been He Loved
the father. For, says he, "the parents of the youngest children have always best of all. My rabbit
Mart is my favorite treasure, as such children require the Parental
care and love well that its hard to wait.

Johnnie and Lina are now talk, such concern must be not so great. "[174]

On the name of the next year, reports the godfather Martin Luther,
the stern and honorable John of beef Electoral ass.

Treasurer: "Your godfather will be a active man, he takes and will be Sinnchen have. "[175]

The boy was, it seems a little sickly and good for nothing, so afraid that his father, he wants
to be a lawyer [176]!

Matt the other hand, was a quiet thoughtful guy, so that the father said: "He is a (Born) theologian.
"The youngest son, Paul, but, on 28 January 1533 came to the world, a strong brave boy, seemed
to Turkish warriors are too.

Thought of the father already at birth, and chose him maybe because a knight, Hans von solver,
Hereditary Marshal and land steward, the godfather. But also the Duke Johann Ernst of Saxony,
also Jonathan D. and the wife of Kaspar Lindemann stood as godfather at Paul [177].

In the Gevatterbrief to solver during the night of the 28th Was written in January 1533, so
that the boy not long remain a heathen and be baptized even to vespers,
states: "Ew.

Stern, God will humiliate honor for my young son and properly be beneficial Appear that he hl
through from the old to the new Art Adams, the birth of Christ. Sacrament Baptism come and
want to be a member of Christendom, whether perhaps the Lord God wants to raise a new enemy of the
Pope or the Turks. "[178]

When Hans Loeser came to baptism, Luther has thus received it: "Thank God! I will not Lacking
Ew. lordship to serve in other matters. There is today a young born Pope been; derohalben
but justice to the poor fellow that he was christened "The child was in the castle. baptized
in a pool.

Luther and after that loaded the godfather to guests as they as much friendly discourse out.
Luther said: "I have let my son Paul called because St. Paul has presented us a lot of great teachings
and sayings. God grant him the graces Pauli and gifts. I will, God willing, to do all my sons
from me: the desire for war is that I want to do Hans Loeser, to study the desire to Jonas and
Philip, the Desire to work, I want to have the farmers do "[179].

As a kind of descendant has been viewed around Christmas 1534, born youngest child was named
after Luther (1531) deceased mother Margaret.

At least foresaw the father, that he would not be so old to provide for them. So he wrote, when
she first four years old, was her godfather, the priest Probst in Bremen: "There you salute
my wife Käthe and your patch, my daughter Margaretchen that your after my death for a fine
pious man should provide. You have chosen to patch it, I command you them too. "An Another very
high Pate was Prince Joachim of Anhalt, the Lutheran "Christian Official
spiritual paternity "had offered and took [180].

Käthe had to bring
the children often their father, even to the study, because it would
cost to them and made his thoughtful comments on child nature and
child's life, which we show as it was in paradise and how it should
be in God's kingdom. The father looked but with Well pleased with
how his Käthe spoke kindly with her rabbit Mart and so patient and
took pity on all children. Psalm to memorize, since they still young
and was bright and cheerful and they could not yet know how this Psalm so sweet and was comforting.
But her husband did not without cause. For he knew that after he died a sad, miserable woman and
this be consolation, it is 31 Psalm has in itself, will require very necessary. "And like the
doctor has also given in his will, as in his letter to his defiance ride [572].

Luther knew precisely the world and his family and his situation: he knew the people ingratitude
[573] unreliability of the princes and their officials infidelity, the small-minded colleague of
mind, hatred of the enemy, who during his lifetime against his husband made an incredible insult
taught and still had to show uninhibited if only the dreaded champion of the shield not revealed
about them. He knew he was a sick man, that he would die before His children were brought up
and fed, he knew the plight of a widow to his Time that no claims for widow's pension, even
after the conventional legal claims for no the legacy was. Therefore, he was worried for his
faithful wife, so he has but also so much about him, was taken care for them in order to protect
them from the worst.

This idea has resigned from Luther in his "second" and "last" "Testament," which four years
before his death, on 6 January 1542 is written. In it he sets his "Dear and faithful wife" a
jointure, and she wants to protect against "a number of useless, wish to complain evil and envious
mouths "that his" dear Kitty disparage "or or incite the children. "For the devil, he just could
not get close, he should probably My Kitty (home) (to) look every way, (even) alone (from) the
cause of that DM honest housewife was Gottlob and still is.

"[574]

Feel it was necessary Katharina soon, what a difference it was, the wife of the great Doctor
to be ruled by the standards of a great prince next to the emperor the world the reputation
and honor on the "landlady" was over, and Luther abandoned widow, in intervene with their property
and family relations, home economics and child rearing and hineinzuregieren now called many felt,
partly from good will and respect for the departed friend and reformer, whereas previously wife
Catherine herself, at most advice and consent of her husband, in these things completely switched-handed
had. That, the energetic woman who is their ability in managing a large Home management was
well aware and which Luther left the house so willingly Regiment had, this talk three commands
and three felt heavy, understand. Not a little had it also hurt them and hurt their self-esteem
that they been the first woman in the city, yes the evangelical world, now had to resign modest.
Difficult and it's got to certain that they limit the run in such a large scale household with
his incredible hospitality had.

Although this did not happen, what Luther had feared that "the four elements (that is surely
the four faculties of the university) would probably not suffer. " Also we do not hear of it,
Luther was expressed in his will: "I beg all my good friends, they wanted I love Kate witnesses
and help them to apologize, where a lot of useless mouths, they wanted to complain and slander,
as they should perhaps have a ready money behind him, they steal the poor children or embezzled
would.

I am the witness that there is no Neighborhood, without the jewel up there in the cup and told
Wipgeding (listed), but 450 fl debt or more. "[575]

But Luther had foreseen a further, what his wife could be accused of: a bad economy. It is
also stated in the will: "It is such at anyone the bill publicly give up because you know how much
income I had stern of my Lord, ohn what gift has been that up there among the jewels, even in the
zumteil Blame lies and is related to. And I still made of such income and gift so much, bought
and held large and heavy housekeeping, that I must find other, even
for a singular, wonderful blessing to know that I've's can afford,
and no wonder is that no ready cash, but that there is not more debt.

"[576]

Most dissatisfied with the economy Catherine was the Chancellor Brück, Luther Godfather. Bridges
had been 1536, when Catherine wanted to lease the property Booß, it is not send out suspicions
that it wants this grand inheritance under the hand of a good thing bring on themselves and their
children, "what thoughts are never come into her heart." Therefore, they also had the country
treasurer Taubenheim later (1539), as the estate was again free lease, addressed, such their
application to anyone else, not even to the elector (which then Bridging would have asked for opinions)
to have access, but it's come under the hand to let what happened. Brueck also spoke very disparagingly
about Kitty's enterprises on their favorite seat and held Zulsdorf these costly improvements arge
wastes. He opposed the acquisition of finally waking village. It is therefore understandable
that even Catherine to speak ill of him was, and even the royal officers who askance at saw the
pardons they received from the court, and even they shortened it. As Luther wanted to move
out a year before his death from Wittenberg, and his wife asked, his to divest of holdings in
the city, as was noted against Melanchthon bridge that actually Catherine the "exaggeration" and
that it was not what Luther vorwende. This was reported by the Registrar the elector, and added
with some glee: there are no buyers Gottlob for such valuable homes
and property [577].

Then, when the electoral regulation because of "the weddings and christenings," sent to Luther
was Melanchthon and Bugenhagen came to the bridge and indicated that
Luther wanted to see or nor hear, to farm would be only his mockery
of it.

It Brück concluded that the doctor by his wife would be stirred up.

So it was a rift between the Black Abbey and the court, that is, between Dr. Luther and Chancellor
Brück, of the "court" represented, so that bridge is no longer personally
and negotiated directly with Luther, but sent the two theologians,
or even a third party [578].

This rift was then his subsequent history.

In December 1545 Brück sent an intermediary to the Black Monastery up to His Reverence " Luther
to move him to a court ordered publication of a politically precarious Point omit. "There was
Mrs. Kitty, too, and has put her word in such a way to" egg dear sir, nothing to read to the
court, which makes it, know it well but your way, "etc. And Luther was this imposition of the Registrar
angry and strange and said he would It do not short. This speech was, of course, Kitty's done
behind the Chancellor and he reported immediately together with the previous observations to
the elector by the words: "I am afraid because Dr. Martin leaves note moves in more than one
way to resist the court, it must once the wax Gütlein village behind
it, and the good, pious gentleman by the "rib" moved.

"[579]

All this played just before Luther's death, to understand that the imbalance in bridge now fresh
and strong lasting effect. Melanchthon and Bugenhagen appear to be the doctor taken if one
is to believe the reports of Brück. But it must still turn out that except the bridge's reports
no evidence of Melanchthon and Bugenhagen hostility against Mrs. Katherine aware, yes the care of both,
especially Melanchthon and the confidence Catherine proves to be
the more likely the opposite.

Nevertheless, after the bridge would be entering a temporary Excitation of the two old friends were
there against them.

First, of course, had the love and devotion, who enjoyed the powerful and emotionally rich man
also to his family, especially the bereaved wife.

The elector had once before nine years of Luther's in Schmalkalden a supposed deathbed this promise:
"Your wife shall be my wife and your children will be my children."

Meanwhile, he thought even now after the doctor's real separation and sent to "the doctor, Luther
dear wife, "that gracious comfort letter in which he and his children gracious care insurance
[580]. This pledge was now the prince to faithfully as long as he was free and could.

The Registrar of the bridge was in a postscript to his letter to the elector 19th notes: "Philip told
me he had the doctor's already 14 days 20 dollars for housekeeping have to borrow. E. Kf. Gn. do
ordain 14 dollars for housekeeping and other things that this Case, necessity will probably
require. The Almighty, E. Kf. Gn. ample recompense! " To which the elector immediately sent the
following day a hundred florins a letter to Melanchthon; which states: "While we also noted,
as should gemeldten Doctor Martini blissful housewife widow and have
lack of money, as you because of you before his death, providence
(advance) should have happened: When we send you this messenger hundred
guilders.

Of which you wollet of money, what you have borrowed to pay before, and the widow of the excess
(surplus) observed by Unserntwegen. "[581]

And maybe another two days after the funeral, the widow of Luther, the elector's special grace
and care insurance. He also offered to her eldest son to court to make and the Electoral Registry
[582].

The friends of the family took care of the widow still ongoing. Melanchthon it proved a little
Attention.

When he on 11 March, a rabbit and a fur coat from Jonathan was, he thought to the Law of Moses
that the priests, which the burden of church government on their shoulders wore the skin should
be part of the victim, and thus to Luther, who for so many years
on his shoulders such a burden borne operations, and he sent the fur
and hare Luther's widow [583].

Jonathan reported on 15 April, King Christian III. of Denmark on Luther's death and added the request
to: "Please humbly 'EKMaj. wanted the widow of his three Domini D. Martini Martini sons, Paul,
John and a daughter Margaret his Highness. "[584]

Even the Duke of Prussia wrote to the Elector of Saxony for D. Martini blessed widow a "pre-request",
that the elector promises to be kind in mind: "Since we the Dentists in his life have been
inclined in everything good, so we respect us also guilty, his posthumous children to be enjoying
his faithful, industrious and Christian service, We also like having
them together with the widow in good order.

"[585]

The Counts of Mansfeld had promised Luther and his family for his
mediation in 2000 fl and these have then on 8 May 1546 "Dr. Luther's
posthumous widow and children" dedicated to "Christian love and gratitude
such shew bemeldts DM Luther that he willingly joined gene Eisleben
and made true meaning of action and therefore there Peace be with
Christian and decided to end happy.

"[586]

Finally, there was a legacy of the Elector Johann Friedrich of $ 1,000, which Luther Children
were exposed, and of which the pensions were paid for the time being, as a kind Grace salary
for the orphans [587].

The widow was in these prescriptions not thought of. By contrast, Luther had for his wife suspended
for four years before his death, a jointure.

Luther had now known contempt for lawyers and legal forms so-Krams Document intentionally placed
himself and only his theological friends Melanchthon, Kreuziger Bugenhagen
and have it signed, in the opinion because it so "many in the world
for a teacher of truth hold 'despite ban Pope and Emperor, kings,
princes, Priests, of all vicious anger, one should himself and his
signature in these low .

Believe things "He writes:" Finally I ask everyone because I was in this talent Wibgeding or not
using the legal forms and words (which I had cause) you would let me be the person I am, in truth,
that is in heaven, on earth and in hell known that one may trust and believe, more than any Notario.
"[588]

This equates to an ill-feeling against just Brück, who had so particularly in this case must
be heard. But the lawyers were able to contest will also appear and to have this done just because
Luther in such willful, the hated lawyers had passed over. But the lawyers were still dubious about
the validity of Marriage of priests and even the marriage of monks
and nuns, so that Luther had reason to fear that they his "honor and
pieces of his children begging not intend to award.

Since there was only one special decision of the sovereignty of the widow to help their rights, as
well as Luther himself had made in the will: "And pray also hereby unterthäniglich, SKG wanted
Such a talent or Wibgeding manage and protect. "[589]

This so-called "Testament" Luther was actually a jointure for his wife, a "Weibgedinge" as it
used to be commonly issued by husbands, sooner or later. It had the more important than for civil servants,
as Professor was no widow's pension for women and the Saxon inheritance for women was so unfavorable.

All
Protestant pastor of the Reformation, all paid very insecure, often only a Content was grace, seeks,
therefore, their wives, as Luther put it, a "Erbdächlein and Herdlin ", ie land to procure; every
husband and wife used in Saxony to prescribe a jointure. "How few there are," says Luther's
longtime housemate Hieronymus Weller, when he was a pastor in Freiberg and had wives and children,
"as few takes one, caring for widows and orphans of deceased ministers of the Church! So follow
Luther's examples and I buy a house for shelter for my family in the future. "So thought Luther also.
He was very unhappy with the Saxon law because of its treatment the female clientele. "Saxon
law," he said, "is too strict and hard, because as the orders, that one should give a woman
after her husband's death only a chair and rocking. " This led But Luther is: "See, that is
house and yard; rock, it's food, while they are in their age and
could, but we must ANTEDATED them their messengers, and annually Wage
type, so it gives it more a beggar.

"[590]

Accordingly, Luther wrote and acted now - even at Epiphany 1542 - his "Testament" ie, the "Weibgeding"
for his wife [591].

"I confess MLD with this my own handwriting, that I love and my trusty
Catherine had been housewives for Wipgeding (or how to call it) on
their lives long, so they gave birth to their pleasure and for their
own good Muge, and give her the power in this Briefs, present term
and today:

Namely the Guttlein Zeilsdorff, had therefore to as ego.

Second, the house Bruno to the apartment, so I bought under my name Wolf.

Third, the cup and treasure, as rings, necklaces, Schenk penny, silver
guilders and which should be safe bey 1000 Fl. worthy of being.

That I do this cause,

First, that me as a frum, faithful marriage Gemahel love always, worthy and well kept, and reach
me through God's blessing five living children (who still furhanden,
God give long) was born and brought up.

Secondly, that the blame, I'm still guilty (where I nit bey life drop), to take up and pay, which
may be-ing around, I realized, 450 florins to mugen may well find it.

The third, and most of all this cause that I want, they should not the children but the children
you can see in their hands, they cherish, and subjected to be, as God has commanded. For I must
have seen and learned how to resist the devil Diess bid hetzet and
provoke the children, if they are frum the same, by evil and envious
mouths, particularly when mothers widows , and get the children of
wives, daughters and husbands, and wiederumb nurum socrus, Nurus socrum.

For I believe that the mother would her own children being of the best guardian, and Sölch Guttlein
Wipgeding and not to harm the children or disadvantage, but to use and need improvement, as the
flesh and blood and wore it in her heart.

And if she was compelled after my death or otherwise vorursachet (for I God in his Works and will,
can set no goal) to be vorändern: I do not trust yet, and will hereby Soelberg have confidence
that it will keep our mother against beyder children, and all faithfully, it Sey Wipgeding share
or otherwise, how right is with them.

Also I ask all my friends Guttenberg, they wanted to be my witness and love Käthen help excuse where
etzliche just extra mouths wanted to complain or denigrate them, when she was about one ready
money behind them, they steal the poor children or would suppress. I am witnessing that there
is no ready cash, Without the cups and jewel tell it up there in Wipgeding.

And this should be bey give everybody the bill publicly, because you
know how much I Einkummens einzukummen by Mr. M. had crossed out,
and there is not even a bright grains of iemand ohn had that gift
has been that up there among the jewels, in part, nor in the guilt
lies, and is related to.

This, I ask this cause: for the devil, and he told me grief could defeat not closer, he should
probably my Kitty, looking only of the causes, all sorts of ways, that the man's wife had marital
DM, and (thank God) still is. "-

Besides this, the Lutheran Witwengut assets consisted of: the convent house afterwards sold to
3700 florins, together the two gardens to 500 fl, furniture and library to $ 1,000 5200 fl
The jointure of the mother was in the sales value in 2300 fl, namely the good Zulsdorf 956 fl,
the house "Bruno" to 343 florins, so far, "a profligate rate" rents, plus the $ 1,000 silver
dishes, which were, however, from the above 450 fl debt if Luther's death, when they stood, which
made her much debt worries, a "ready money" was - even after D. Brück's testimony "not there".
Of course, Luther himself had that much possession later struck,
and in 1542 he calculated the estimate it at 9000 but the income fl
of all, he estimates that only 100 florins were given yet for some
time 50 fl annuity; from the prescribed electoral legacies of $ 1,000
and finally pass 2000 fl Count Mansfeld [592].

That was probably a large, spacious property, but he was not very
profitable, all in all He threw 250 fl. Whether it was able to live
a larger family without too great limitation? We have about
a very vivid and graphic description of an eyewitness. On Sunday Estomihi (24 February) 1544 was
for Luther a "Kingdom" with the usual feast. Except Bugenhagen, Melanchthon, tubes, etc. Major
was also the schoolmaster Crodel from Torgau to his great Joy and satisfaction invited. This,
of some of Wittenberg led to, brought the conversation to the "slanderous rumor" that the doctor
"from his inspiration and drive Wife preach. " With great sincerity and warmth from Luther had this
suspicion, and said Others: "These kinds of words, as I putting forward in this case (the dispute
with the lawyers), fall - unless I want to have the Holy Spirit, a rule prescribed - no woman's
head one. I let my wife of lead in such matters of the household and table, but in Matters of conscience
and the Scriptures I recognize no other teacher and doctor, as the Holy Spirit. "A little later,
after a violent speech, came forth and asked his wife, because what was negotiated with such
vehemence. He closed with the words to Crodel: Sage the legal scholar that I am not in this
case led by my wife, I lift it to the thing itself and the core of an object from without regard
to a person. " Crodel had this conversation so important that he's literally writing his friend
Ratzeberger announced, and it was significant enough, you had to Luther know little, if such
gossip wanted to believe [488].

It is even now not so much that Luther read his letters Kitty, in
her presence such that they wrote and it gave him orders, and they
encouraged him to friends to write when he was in it delinquent.

Of course, to hours of silent rest, as in the first years of their marriage, are rarely the
husband in the later period of the great work urge be more came. But despite all went home
care and activity in the garden and field Käthe but not very devoted to their economic activity.
She was her husband in his office and profession, so much was possible and necessary, but the clerk
of his life. Not only in the sense that she took off the worries of family and fortune, but
they takes part in his work, the time-moving issues [489].

"You taught so the Katechismum and faith?" The doctor of Eisleben wrote to his "Careful" housewife.
This is surely expressed that Ms Kitty - at least in the absence
the doctor - with children and servants of the catechism drove like
Luther with this teaching booklet all Christian parents exacted [490].

Luther also gives his wife orders because of the pressure of his writings, indeed, they should have
to talk to me with it and let him determine what they print or not.

Of Marburg He writes about religion from the conversation with Zwingli on the Eucharist, even
with Latin Key words [491].

For this sympathy to her husband's work, concerns, as in the great
contemporary issues and world events, enter the letters in particular
testimony that he, during his absence on the occasion of diets wrote
to her.

Thus, of Coburg (p. 109-113). In particular, the last of 24 September, "Attention women Kathleen D. Luth Erin
at Wittenberg."

Grace and peace in Christ!

My dear Kitty! Yesterday I wrote you and sent a letter in most gracious Lord, You can hear it, as do
our men to be of Augsburg. After this I hope, where God gives grace, we want to be with you
in two weeks at home. Although I respect, our cause will not stay even unverdammt. There lies
not in power. However, the Riet donkey arrived here wrote that he hoped they would deposit
in Augsburg with peace in all Streets. God grant it and would be a great blessing. So we need
all's well, because the Turk will so us. Further, you will probably hear from Horn revisions.
Herewith are God commanded all.

Saturday after St. Matthew, 1530. Martin Luther. "[492]

Ten years later, when the Reichstag and the Convention took place in Haguenau, writes on Luther
10. July 1540 from Eisenach his "dear housewives, women, Kathy Luderin at Wittenberg" including:
"... Pray with diligence, as you are guilty of for our Lord Christ,
that is, we whoever believes in him against the swarm of vicious rage,
so now against the Haguenau Lord and His anointed (Ps.

2). "(SoS f. 130) [493].

Thus Luther talked in recent years with his wife on the political situation, including the deceitful
policy of Duke Maurice.

"Dear Kitty," said he, "your countrymen have made with my most gracious Lord councils a dog
chain and are not likely subside, since they betrayed him. "[494]

It is by nature and understand that we women of Catherine's character, action and meaning have so
little direct evidence. After all, it has not much written and her letters are almost all lost,
while they themselves carefully to their doctor's letters has kept, of course, also interested
in the house, and contemporary almost exclusively for the big man
who had moved the world.

His figure outshone the hostess completely. Only in reflection of Luther's letters and table
discussions, often in his remarks Admirers, we find traits that represent their character image.

But
that therefore Ms Catherine next to the reformer an independent position and prestige claimed,
the fact that the friends and Luther himself not only respectful
the "Domination" and doctor, with Latin and Greek words mentioned,
but also on the married woman has the name "Katharina von Bora" used.

What Luther was now his wife?

Since there are three important evidence that Luther issued his wife,
at the beginning, in the Middle and at the end of his marriage, not
merely occasional expressions of good or bad Mood, thought, and formal
recognition of their excellence as a housewife and Wife.

In the second year of his marriage status (1526) he wrote to boot:
"She is submissive to me and in all things obedient and pleasing,
much more than I had dared to hope (God is Thanks!), So I do not want
to exchange my poverty with the treasures of Croesus.

"[495]

Eleven years later, during his fatal illness attack on the journey of Schmalkalden, dictated Luther
Gotha in his will, which stated: "Comfort ye my Kate, that she wore it for that she has twelve
years lived happy with me. She herself has served me not only as a Wife, but also as a maid.
May God reward you! But you shall care for them and their children, as is befitting's "And
then he said:" I love my Kate, yes I did they prefer for myself,
this is certainly true, I would rather die than that they and little
children should die.

"[496]

Finally Luther writes in his last and final proof will iJ 1542nd "I MDL confess with this my
own handwriting, that I my dear and faithful housewives where have
the good jointure, Home and treasures.

The reason I do that me as a pious (good), loyal husband, always fond of wedlock, has held valuable and
beautiful. "[497]

And what so Luther testified in solemn hours, otherwise he has repeatedly in front of his table
companions and friends know. His longtime housemate Hieronymus Weller wrote in his memoirs:
"I remember how the hochw husband often said he rates from heart happy that him God so obedient,
modest and wise wife paid, which so well for his health care and could occur and so cleverly
adapt its essence and knows his mistakes and inconvenience to wear
with such quiet mind.

Because he could in his many works, activities and challenges are not always well being of its
Into account. "[498]

The relationship between Lara and Luther was the respectful reverence, which corresponded even
the perception of the Middle Ages from the rule position of the husband to wife, on the other hand
did it come from the fact that the fifteen years younger to the older woman, by learning and
looked up high reputation venerable man with a certain reverence. Therefore, he speaks they always
with "you" to, she speaks to him, always with "your" and calls him "Doctor". Luther also took the course.
As was the speech of a man once, in which a rich woman had sold his liberty, he said, "I's
also like, if my Lara travels across the jaw - only that I'm not much to it as a win Maulschellium "[499].
And another time: "She alone has the entire estate was in her hand. I admit it too like the whole
house Regiment, but I wanted to get me my rights intact and petticoat government has never directed
anything good. "Luther was his whole being, but also his view and its biblical principles to cut
down not the man his rights before the magnificent Do not: a friend who he accuses the tyranny
of his wife, he points out disapprovingly, that is the reputation of the man should not be allowed to
trample. He has also led to Hans LUFFT daughter's wedding the bride to the camp and said to
the groom (the doctor Andrew M. Aurifaber): "He's should be run and stick to the common man
in his home (if the woman does not is at home, "he added jokingly).

And as a sign he took him off one shoe and put him on the canopy bed that he would retain the rule
and the rule [500].

But of course, Kitty's resolute nature, the rule that took them in
the house and the master of the house it also fully acknowledged,
led him to that he also jokingly his "Lord" mentioned.

He writes from her's court in Torgau: "Yesterday I thought, as I home a beautiful Women have,
or should I say men? "[501]

And by this resolute nature of their being, he teases them sufficiently. And how just right strong-willed
and good-natured when married men, like himself to his friends in the humorous role of the
dutiful, repressed husband. He once told a guest: "Take fürlieb with a religious (brave) host,
for he is the obedient women." Your own against Luther speaks in new twists to this rule and alleged
marriage characterized in that imperious nature of women Kathe. "My lady" he calls them already in
the first week of their marriage. "My Kitty" (Meus KETHA) is later called their regular in his
familiar letters, and in just as droll connection "My lord Katie,"
or linguistically correct "Sir Kätha", "Dr. Kethus "even once" my
Lord and my Moses "and" my Mistress "or" Empress "[502].

But otherwise he calls them in tender play on words often do my chain, "my" grape vine " or
respectful in letters to far-removed "my wife", "my old woman" [503].

Even his own wife beating face Luther usually those teasing tone, from which one hand, gentle slope,
on the other hand, it looks too respectful recognition.

Even in his earliest surviving letter, and then he almost always speaks to her "Dear Mr Kath.
Then he addressed - according to the custom of the time - "My dear Lord, Mrs. Kathleen for the attention
of Wittenberg Lutheran woman, "or" My dear friendly Mr, Mrs Catherine of Bora, D. Luth Erin,
at Wittenberg, "or more humorously complicated emotionally:" My dear friendly gentlemen Catherine
Erin Luth, Doctorin, preacher to Witten Bergh. Or: "My gracious maid Katherine von Bora and
Luth Erin Zulsdorf to Wittenberg, my darling." "In my heart love housewives Katherin Luth Erin
Doctorin Zulsdorferin, and what Saumärkterin they can be more. "" My dear friendly housewife
Katherine von Bora Luther, preacher, Erin Brau, gardener, and what more they can be. "But then
it is also deeply and sincerely to the address "my dear" or "heart
love housewives" or "my dear friendly Kathe Luth Erin "and in the
salutation," Dear maid Kate "and finally"

Your old love " or "Your dear Lord." Even in his house daily prayer he asks for "my dear Woman
"[504].

Shall serve the doctor's wife sometimes even in exemplification of its theological or experiential
view of the women, often in a jocular or probably even more serious
Exaggeration.

Since it is denying them wisdom and power and talent is making fun their loquacity, as he remarked
on various occasions, the women in general and its Kathe especially forget the Lord's Prayer,
when they began to preach [505].

Thus, "the doctor laughed once his Kate, as she wanted to be smart, and he said that God had
the Man a broad chest as the seat of wisdom given to the woman, but wide hips and strong Leg,
that they should stay at home, sitting in the quiet households, bear children and . Draw Petticoat
government in the House and the State is no good. The man at the house of the regiment. . The law
takes the wisdom and women Regiment "He thought of all:" There is no rock still dress that
a women or young women is present evils, as if she wants to be smart.

" Luther even stated once in a dinner speech: "The women's lack of strength, force of the body
and the mind. The lack of physical strength to endure it, for the men to they feed. The lack
of understanding are we to do them, but their customs and way who govern with reason, and something
to keep the best. "[506]

In addition, however, he recognizes the benefits and the determination of the female sex to praise:
"A woman is a friendly, gracious and amusing company of life. Women wear Children and rear
them to rule the house and hand out properly, what a man hineinschaffet and acquires that
it held for rate and verthan would not useless, but that to every may become what it deserves.
Therefore they are called by the Holy Ghost House honor that they should be of the house decorations,
honor and ornament. You are inclined to mercy, because they are of God also created fürnehmlich to
think that they will have children of men Pleasure and joy, and be merciful. "" It is a poor thing
a woman. The greatest honor you it is that we are all together by the women born and come into
the world. A Woman is called in Scripture "a pleasure and joy of your eyes" (Sirach 26, 2). A pious
woman to be honored and loved so, first, that God's gift and present is, secondly, that God gave
a woman beautiful great virtues that other defects and disease far
surpass, especially where they keep breeding, loyalty and faith.

"" If the women accept the teachings of the Gospel, they are much stronger and more fervent
in faith, hold much stronger and more rigid about it than the men, as one sees at the Anastasia
love and other martyrs, was also Magdalena hearty strength for Peter "[507].

Once he probably laments: "If I was still a free, so I wanted an obedient Woman cut from a stone,
so I'm desperate to women of all obedience "But Sun no seriously it was him but not so. He knew
well: "There is no greater plague or a cross, on earth, for an evil, strange, quarrelsome
woman. "With him it was not so, otherwise he would be this, he says. However, he knows his wife's
submissiveness and servility in many Places and to praise in many
ways.

He cited also like the word of his hostess Eisenach: "It's become a better thing on earth as a
woman lover, whom she can." And from his own experience he says: "A pious wife is a companion
of life, man Comfort. "[508]

Small marital feuds took Luther as obvious things lightly in the purchase. Once when he had
had a small quarrel with his wife, he said in explanation to Veit Dietrich. "He also stood
by her a rage, so he could endure more," he says of married people: "Whether they purr like
at times and murmur, it must not hurt and it goeth string-equal in marriage is not always to
be a random thing, the one must surrender. Adam and Eve have zerscholten also heartily even the nine
hundred years, and Eva said to Adam: "You have eaten the apple." Herwiederum is Adam replied:
"Why You've given it to me? "The essence of marriage is not harmed by such skirmishes. "For though
the Weibsen commonly know all the art that, with tears, lies, defenses take a man prisoner's can
turn fine and give the best words, if only these three pieces remain
in the marriage, namely, good faith, children and the fruit body and
sacrament, namely, that one's regards as a sacred thing and divine
status, so it is even a happy state, and a blessed man who has a good
wife.

"[509]

Once he complains well: "I must have patience with the Pope, I must have Patienz with the enthusiasts,
I must have patience with the crowd pile, I must have Patienz with the servants, I have to
Patienz have with Käthe von Bora, and the Patienz so much that my life will be nothing but
Patienz. The prophet Isaiah (30, 15) says: "In silence and hope is your strength." - How little
Kitty but this was bad, proving that she on the stone house door, which she ordered in Pirna
Luther grade, let bury this prophetic speech. Luther confesses But also: "Whoever receives
one religious (good) woman gets, gets a good dowry. And over here a woman is a little bitter,
but one might have to be patient. For it belongs to the house and requires the servants's sometimes
very well that they had hard and thoroughly go on. "

"The domestic anger as a father and mother, Mr and Mrs in the house does not much damage. Domestic
anger is as if the children play with dolls. "[510]

The appreciation of family life, the praise, "Luther sings in all keys to the marital status,
is yet another proof of the happy marriage in which Luther lived with his Katherine. The Chapter
on marital status is in his Table Talk, the largest. He started at the engagement his niece (1538)
and could not stop to praise the marriage that he was God Order and
the very best and most sacred status was.

"Therefore it should be with the most delicious Ceremonies (ceremonies) to start. God has
a cross (ie: the blessing) on ​​marital status made and maintains's about it. "[511]

In marriage should be vain love and lust, of course, "there must be
a pious man and a devout his wife that her husband and children love
with all my heart. A pious wife is a companion of life, the man's
consolation, as it is written (Sprw. 31, 11): A man's heart leaves
to them. Since freezing the festive Figures
pale with horror and slowly dying and bang into the walls back, and how a pale rock country
increases the deserted hall of the last shining waves. Only Julius Caesar remains, and the greedy
eyes glow of his hot seared the pale girl the senses. But how he will grab them, they are snatching
his compelling eyes and flees in the dark, echoing room, her light blue silk dress is ripped to shreds,
like a Piece of moon light in the wild fingers of the prince, and he winds around his neck and
strangled with it. Then he touched her to into the night and shout suddenly. He hears she has
discovered the small tapestry, and he knows that now she is his, because from there it gives
only one way: the narrow staircase tower, which opens into the small round scented room - high
Moldova in the tower. And with wanton haste he is behind her, always behind her, and he hears
not dispelled their step, but as a gloss he sees them at every turn of the Steps in front of
him. Then he grabs her again, and now he has the delicate, warm shirt angst in hand, only
the shirt, and his lips and cheeks it is cool. He was dizzy, and as he kisses his prey, he slowly
leans against the wall. Then with three, four tigers jumps he appeared up to the door of the
tower room, and - frozen: soars high before the night, naked, the pure white body, like from
the window edge blossomed. And still they are both.
 And after a others,
not implausible message would have been the mother of a born and Haubitz would also be taken
after the tradition at that time very popular with Anna. Then however Lippendorf would not have
been Kitty's home. Undoubtedly certainly only is her birthday the 29th January 1499, because this
day is engraved on a medal that now exists [10].

Their closest relatives are known.

Catherine had at least three brothers. The one whose name is not known, married with a certain
Christina, and died quite early, perhaps around 1540. For his son Florian, ie about the same age
with Luther elders at that time fourteen years old had been taken at this time into the house
and wanted to study 1546 the rights, then Christina von Bora Witfraw
"was [11].

The other is Catherine's brother, Hans von Bora. It was 1531 in the service of Duke Albrecht of
Prussia, but came back from there about 1534 to himself and his brothers the Gütlein Zulsdorf
as Erbdächlein "to apply. He was in his manhood by his brother Luther
and Justus Jonas the praises of a "sincere, delicate and faithful
people."

"Trust and good he is, I know, this also clever and industrious, "he testified Luther [12].

Less praiseworthy is known by the third brother, Clement. He came with his brother Hans Konigsberg,
fell but after his return to society of an aristocratic ruffians
who, in his Present an in-room companion stabbed in the noise, which
drew upon his own evils, and call him in Brought disgrace to the Duke
[13].

In addition to the brothers is also a cousin of Catherine (base) Lene
known that later in Luther House lived.

But the document will be none other than Magdalena von Bora, his father's sister [14] which of course
at the time of Catherine's birth has long lived in the monastery Nimbschen.

If it is true that around 1525 a Maria von Bora on Zulsdorf is married to Wittenberg [15] must
have lived near relatives in this Vorwerk in the twenties.

Reich but this could not be, because the entire estate was only worth 600 florins and nourished
his man not, as later learned brother Hans himself. Another relative of Catherine's was Paul
von Rachwitz, who lived in Bitterfeld in the vicinity of the branch in Bora lived [16].

The family of Catherine must have been quite poor: it is even: it was in the extreme Distress
advised. Florian, the son of the eldest brother was, at least according to his father Death,
although this probably had the genetic material, but rely on grants for its Studies. Brother
Hans was at the Prussian court made so poorly that Luther for him
the Duke Albrecht "be difficult" and had to write: "After my brother
Käthen Hans von Bora and nothing in the court dress and food does
not have enough, wanted EFGN. , That give him each quarter in a couple
of guilders were thrown, so that he shirt and other necessities want
to pay [17].

"

Catherine herself has finally, apparently, do not get even a jointure with the monastery, as other,
more prosperous aristocratic lady with an average of 3 shock [18]
were given a year; and their consecration they could donate only 30
pence, while new nuns probably 100 or at least 40 pence sacrificed.

With her marriage she could not bring a dowry into the marriage [19].

So therefore, Katharina von Bora - even grown up in cramped conditions - where it be and if you
look at the young girl as delicate as the lady knights castle window with the hoop or wanted
to present as a hunter on a proud Zelter, so would result in a even misleading. We Do you think
us rather like a young farmer's daughter on the homestead and switching sway, the mother by the
hand as possible in the economy, at the same time as the oldest,
perhaps the only daughter, also a certain independence and sovereign
gift unfolding, as she shows later developed into the mature woman.

Of course to create a real clear picture of their childhood, we are not able, to lack all evidence,
all shapes and colors. We like this particular image from the quite young, in which we immerse
ourselves in a human life so much, with Catherine sorely missed, as the whole environment, the background
of the landscape and even the necessary staffage of father and mother and all acts on a young man,
to blur the names and disappear, while for example with her husband, the doctor Luther, parents,
father, mother, siblings, playmates, home and school so much and plastic are prominent, that
they give a lively and even full color paintings.

But one can yet again easy comfort of this lack.

For, it seems, are the parents both died young. As soon as Catherine in the light of history
perform their marriage, already in their escape from the monastery, is any trace of them disappeared:
the parents do not appear at her wedding as the parents of Luther, they are not asked to give their
consent, after which it shall otherwise Luther so much stress; yes they are already coming out
of the question to escape from the monastery, as it is a property These, and also during the whole
monastery is time father and mother to the fore, But as is often
the case at the monastery virgins.

Perhaps that is the parents' earlier Death of Catherine the occasion was so soon to enter the convent.

However
that may be, the mental development of the young lady does not fall into the family home. Because
very soon came Catherine away from home and their conscious youth
she spent away from home in young women pen.

Catherine falls admission, although she was 15 years younger, about
in the same time when the Erfurt Master Martin Luther left the studies
and entered the monastery of the Augustinians.

2. Chapter

In the monastery.

Currently, when a poor girl will be supplied from better classes, not on large dowry, and therefore likely to marry
and thus the natural female profession, family life, must renounce expected, it comes in an institution
and forms to the teacher or the like of. In the Middle Ages came a poor lady, whose facilities heritages
of the narrow heir and sisters would have diminished even more, for supplying the monastery. The
ancient monastery (Benedictine, Cistercian, St Bernard) have been care institutions [20]. There
were noble founder, religious institutions of our ancestors, in which "respectable" (ie noble) virgins
Serve God and to pray for the souls of the living and the dead [21]. Instead of the current
"Intellectual" work was used to work in the world for people living at that time the "spiritual"
Professional for the worship of God and the saints, the eternal salvation of the living, especially
But relatives of the dead in purgatory. Instead of today's free but not always voluntary Resolution
on a chosen profession, which, however, only conditionally and Time is taken, there was then
the "eternal" irrevocable "Vergelübdung" for life; instead of "emancipation",
which in addition to the family life of a standing Virgin today more
or less waiting for her at that time was waiting for the "exam", the
confinement in the monastery walls in a strictly closed association,
the "Order" under the tight band of the "rule", Monastery statutes.

On his talent and passion for this sacred profession was as much in demand, and it could no
regardless be taken [22]. This was during these times of parental authority, was of particular
daughters, too large and the sense of family in such a noble houses an excessively pronounced
than that one link in the tradition of individual inclination to and the family custom as
against the claims of the existence of conditions of sex would have rebelled. According to church
rules was the principle of "making a Monk either parental or Vergelübdung own consent "[23], therefore,
primarily the determination of the parents!

This just thought it was befitting for a supply and at the same time for a "good blissful state,"
like a nun explained by this time [24].

In addition, the daughters have done in an age in the monastery, where a decision will could
be no question [25]. The girls were still children. The entry was already in six years done, and
many came into it later, when the family relationships by growth
in the birth rate, death of the mother and the like different shape.

But in an earlier age were still "kids food" included, which then often monastery virgins were.

"It is a high poverty and tyranny, that we, unfortunately, the children, particularly the poor womenfolk
and hath put down young girls in the monasteries, provoke and can
go "- as Luther expresses just about the monastery, which was Katharina
von Bora, and indignantly exclaims: "O the merciless Parents and friends
(relatives), the procedures with your so awful and terrible, "[26]

The
same thing happened to the daughter of an impoverished home Bora.

Catherine was a monastery sent - asked the child was not, of course, it was "not willingly," as
for Luther generally of her and her sisters talk of expulsion to the convent and of coercion.
He asked on that occasion his contemporaries: "How much do you think that nuns in monasteries,
which do casual fun and pleasure with their worship and religious wear? In a thousand little.
What is it that makes you such a child that is his life and all its Works lose? "[27]

Catherine was perhaps the 6th Age of the monastery, for in its sixth
year prescribes Jan von Bora on lip village all his goods allda him
- perhaps in this Years married the second - his wife.

In any event, Catherine was in the tenth year (1509) already monastery young woman, and no longer the
youngest, but the second-youngest of the recorded and still remained many years (until 1516),
the penultimate in the series of sisters [28].

Monasteries there was enough time in the country: there were only
about 30 nunneries in Meissen counted [29]. should occur in which
Catherine Monastery, which was clear from the outset: It had the noble
Cisterzienserinnen Monastery "Marie throne" or "God's throne"

Nimbschen for in the Electorate of Saxony Borna be [30]. For here was a cousin of his father's
side, perhaps Father's sister Magdalene von Bora monastery for a long time young woman and
held by 1502-8 the Office of a sick mistress, that the nurse nuns. Were also, apparently,
two relatives from the maternal family of the howitzer because: a Margaret and older a younger Anna.

The
monastery has a beautiful location Nimbschen. An hour below, after the two wells the south of
Zwickau and Freiberg melted from the east to the great Dump expanded, the Flußthal close to
a quarter of an hour wide flat floodplain, which Form of an elongated blade and has a half-hour
long.

On the east bank incurs a rugged cliffs of porphyry out, to which the dump bed huddles, in the
west a low, gently sloping, wooded hills to Werder. Above the northern Blade tip, which closes
sharply through the back along cliff walls, rose a castle and from beyond the valley lock, unseen
by the floodplain, is the town of Grimsby, in the upper End of the meadow, close to the foot
of the western forest hill, stood the monastery. So it was isolated from the world, culminating
in the two ranges of hills, with a view of the silent quiet meadow. Flowed over the trough unseen
deep into their banks, dominated by the rock wall, this side rose the hilly forest monastery.
Northward of it gleamed a pretty big pond, which contained the delicious fast food.

From the hill next to the monastery, the dirty brown porphyry stones were broken, constructed
with which the walls and monastery buildings were, a moat prevented this hill towards more unauthorized
access.

The convent building was very large, because such an old Cistercian abbey formed a World of their
own had the old rule of the monastery all his needs to build own Economic satisfy [31]. Therefore, it
was by the actual "church" as a spiritual Pin was called all sorts
of farm buildings: stables for horses, cattle, pigs, Poultry with
the necessary servants and maids, shepherds and shepherdesses for
filling, cows, sheep (The monastery had its 1800!), Pigs and geese,
also Mowers, Drescher, woodsman, a Cheese mother.

" The monastery itself was divided into two buildings, "the provost," and the "exam". The Provost
joined to the outer cloister and included the residence of the superintendent or Provost, a
"half-priest" who was "honor" ("honor") addressed, then the dwelling the administrator or bailiff
(Voit) together with the clerk specifying the "preaching house" in which the two "gentlemen
at the gate," ie, monks from the monastery Pforta, lived as confessors, because Pforta had
overall supervision of Nimbschen. A brewery, bakery, slaughterhouse, blacksmith, Mill, food
and wine were still there, where people lived in various monastic craftsmen and were handling, to the
gate house was the gate keeper Thalheym. A "Hellenheyszer" had the furnaces to be feared.

It was an even large economy with a great staff: 40-50 people were in the monastery time Katharina
von Bora every day, "the court" to feed, and had to adjust wages are paid, by the foreman of
4 Shock 16 pennies and head on up to 4 shock goose, which got only 40 pence.

salary status to all these people and to feed in addition to the nuns, of course, it took large
income in money, grain, chickens, eggs, etc from the monastery villages
and farms, but the monastery goods that have been managed by the monastery
staff themselves.

Also had the farmers still do some labor services with plowing, fertilization, threshing, mowing and
haying, cutting, Take timber, picking hops, flax and hemp fight vibrate, and toasted, sheep
shearing, Jagdfron (Driving while hunting) for which some eating and drinking, hunting, money
was offered.

The nuns even lived in the "exam", a second complex, which in the square built around a small
courtyard and was out of the church, the refectory (dining house), the dormitory (Sleeping house
with the cells) and the Convention (meeting house) was. The abbey, home the Abbess, who was
not part of the exam, between this and the Propsthof.

Here in the monastery now living some forty daughters of noble houses from different regions
of the electoral and ducal Saxony. In addition there were half a dozen "converse" or Lay sisters,
for God's sake, that is served for free. In addition, several paid "Koch Meide, including a cook,
and the "women-Meid", ie the servant of the Abbess.

This was also two boys at their disposal, which naturally express the monastery and lived on
Clothes and shoes, together received a shock each year [32].

The noble nuns formed the collection, the Convention and therefore were called Konventualinnen. This
was a small female nobility Republic, which ruled in all things, even after the "rule" that the
laws to which they were sworn in - only under the supervision of
their Visitors, of the Abbot of Pforta, but the order only because
of the rule and give notice could.

The rule was that of St.. Bernhard, a somewhat more stringent variation to that of the ordinary old
Benedictine [33].

The nuns were out of the Abbess included in the exam, from which they only Convent Affairs
with special permission, and this rare and accompanied by a senior citizen and the confessor were
allowed to emerge.

A communication with the outside world or even with the monastery of people on the provost
did not take place, even in the church they were on a special tight choir nuns barred hidden from
the world's people. Was expressly prohibited swapping off at the organ and the Leaning over
the fence of the choir. If someone Outside of talking (sacred or secular) to a monastery young
woman had, such as the Parents and siblings came to visit, they were allowed only with special permission
of the abbess, and only if it required the need in which Redstube through the barred Redfenster
and Presence of the abbess to talk to her, it was impossible that someone's hand or a thing
through the window stuck. Similarly, the confessional was bequeathed, and even the confessor allowed
only in cases of disease occur in the exam. Festivities and pleasures should confessors do
not join the monastery virgins. The doorkeeper was forbidden under penalty, Dog (?), Old women,
and the like engaging [34]. The sisters were not with the Monastery children [35] sleep together.

In this monastery there was association with the government and administration of the various Community
Offices. With fairly absolute power ruled the elected Abbess: their command and their punishment
was to comply with wordless, unconditional obedience, but she was
required to everywhere the advice of their "senior jury and" to hear.

She was not only the outer Management of the Community transferred the "line of the souls and conscience."
It should to strive, just loving to all, young and old, to act, for all healthy and sick to be
concerned including their physical necessities.

Respectfully approached the Sisters of the Abbess, she was a dominatrix (Lady), the venerable Mother,
and the outside at least they called "Madame." In 1509, shortly after Katharina von Bora had
occurred in Nimbschen, died in the old Abbess Katharina by Schoenberg,
and Catherine's relatives, Margaret of howitzer, was elected abbess
and solemnly introduced by Abbot Balthasar of Pforta in their office
[36].

After the abbess came to the dignity Prioress ("Preilin"), on the one hand and the deputy Help
meet them, on the other hand, also the deputy and confidant of the Convention.
 See
Lefevre, and Aumama, even longer than we are married off together, have two love children and
do not think it is separate. "

"Think not separate them in?" Cried Aia, which are at the first sounds have been was, and had
turned the head with a mocking, almost hostile smile the speaker - "Think not to separate them
in? yes you are right - who knows if you do not even earlier take control of your canoe back in
the reefs than he - but Le-fe-ve seen has been blind in a few different eyes. Do not shake your
head, Wi-wi if you do not contradict me can; tear him to dress and put your ear to his heart
- who's beating? - Bah - So much for you, "and she struck with her
hand defiantly their loins!.

"Aia - come here to me and sit with me," said Sadie now in a low,
pleading voice.

"Do not be angry, and angry, we love you here and you mean it but not so bad as you say it.
"

"My I not?" Said the girl still defiant and half turned away, but already with plenty of quieter,
gentler voice than the gentle, pleading sounds met her ear - "my
I do not? and how do you know it, Sadie? - I hate you all together,
and well, oh horrible I probably should do it, if your all - all will
be so unhappy - so - like - it "turned rapidly from the head of Sadie,
but it was only a moment -

!

»Aia cried Sadie, so pleading, so heartily - Aia was hesitant, defiance and anger, and shame
still held the upper hand in their hearts, but not in the state to adjust to it, won the better
feeling with the pain once roused the upper hand, and with few steps at her side, she crouched
down beside her, hid her face in her lap and whispered quietly erupting in tears:

"You're good, Sadie, as well - like - I have no comparison, for our gods they are also taken and
theirs are wrong - wrong as herself. But I am much too bad for you, too bad; Aia may not see
you in the eye - and yet Your lips have never been a reproach to them. "

"Poor girl, 'said the young woman quietly and sympathetically, and looked to be their main
repeal, but the wine from the end, they fought, and put his arm tightly around her body only,
to maintain their position.

René she had looked pitiful for a while, then he put his hand on her
shoulder and said softly:

"Stay with us, Aia, do not go back to Papetee,
but stay with Sadie.

We have bread-fruit and fish for you, and a mat to sleep on it, and your dress is not bad be as if you
carried it so far - Sadie needs a help, "he continued kindly as He saw how the head of the
kneeling in front of her stroking, and caressing, she moved on to "And you will quite be quite
welcome in this house."

René is right, "his wife supported the request," do not go back to Papetee - your Mother is
dead and father far to the Leeward Islands to the other side, avoiding the city that Brings
only misfortune and curse and suffering, and stay with me. It is not you repent and You will
be happy again and be happy among us. "

"And the Mi-na-to-res?" The girl said softly.

"Will gladly accept the penitent and loving in their protection and shield and you forgive the
sins how God would look down at us once, "said Sadie quickly and happily, for in the Question
was already a commitment to their request.

Aia was far from the bosom and her playmate Tears seemed to flow
faster than a loud male voice cheerful greeting by Hecke flowering
acacia called that separated the garden from the street.

"Ah Lefevre," said Rene, "how are you, neighbor, and does not come across you?"

"Same, same," was the answer, and they listened as the young Frenchman
out there with Someone said, and gave him orders.

But Aia was quickly addressed and how scared up, and the curls from her forehead, the tears from the
eye turned throwing them as if they wanted to flee the place, Sadie But she seized her hand
and said softly, pleading:

"Go away from here, Aia, stay with us."

"No, no," cried the girl, Sadie could see what agony it cost her refuse the request to despise
the quiet peace of their home and alone and friendless fortzustürmen in the wild life, "no I can
- I can not stay with you - I do not deserve - I've become evil and bad, and curse your God
would tell me drive from the threshold, on the now bored nor your happiness and peace - but
she was Wild added, and her eyes flashed in eerie glow over to René,
"if they connected All have left, and you're standing alone and friendless
in the world - as I am now - then Aia will be by your side, and thank
you for the kind word you today to her spoken.

Then we want to dance and laugh and rush together into life, but no more mourn and weep. - The fai
~ ~ on the tears - they wash the foam from the soul of the People that you can see down to the
bottom - laugh and the fishermen but only the breaks forth. "

"You might have reason to be angry with one of us, Aia," but said
Rene, who saw what painful, so painful impression on the words of
his soul made Sadie, "and reproachest now unfair the whole race.

You will do us in later years Atonement. "

"Shall I - ha? and Le-fe-ve also how "- the girl laughed and pointed
angrily to the outstretched arm after, just walk into the garden be
French.

"Hello, Aia," she called out to this, "hums the wild Hummel again their song on our floor? -
Ha, you have tears in his eyes girl? - Go, you're a black bird and prophecies only evil. "

"There is no need for prophets," but said the girl angrily, and turned away by the Shawl closer
around her moved - "Each of us can easily predict that the sun tomorrow
again early on the mountain comes when they fell behind in the evening
Morea [B] into the lake. - Away with you, you have sweet words in
your mouth, and poison, deadly poison in my heart - gone Aia knows
you - gone, "- and throw back without a word or glance, she walked
the narrow Path down which led to the lower gate and was soon in the
so-called ~ ~ broomroad, the beaten path to Papetee disappeared.

Sadie looked at her with a sigh, and also according René could not quite an eerie feeling .
Resist

»Joranna René, - ~ ~ ah bon jour madame," cried the well-Lefevre the painful impression blur
wish the words of the strange girl's unmistakable attention to Sadie
made, "did you ruin the entire night Aia do? - It is a silly thing
and I can not even cross the threshold, because Aumama cries every
time she only Set foot on the roof.

"

"She is poor and unfortunate," said Sadie.

"Oh - she disguises himself," replied sullenly Lefevre - "and probably with himself with the
largest debt of her suffering's. We poor devil's committed a crime should be always alone have,
you know René? - But what I wanted to say more; Papetee to go with? - The venerable Protestant
gentlemen have since again a meeting this afternoon, and how the
rumor is they intend to order more serious measures, every French
Influence, and with him perhaps again the French priests, give them
an Thorn in the eye, to shake off.

"

"The missionaries" - said René quickly drove away slowly but immediately afterwards, "are worthy
and brave, but short-sighted men, they think the issue now have in
hand and play so long so until they wegschlüpft under the fingers
- they should not be in the Policy mix.

"

"What says Mr. Nelson?" Asked Lefevre.

He considers the arrival of Catholics for a disaster for the islands,
but with the Gewaltsmaßregeln dissatisfied will take you on the other
hand, but what can the individual against the whole band .

Align "

"And you go with after Papetee?"

"What shall we then? - Hear harsh words which may annoy us and drive to counter speeches? - I have
no pleasure in the matter and see the suffering and misery before the eyes of it will and must
arise. "

"But we may perhaps some lightly what could happen. Moerenhout is a reasonable Man, and will
not go too far. "

"What can do Moerenhout" René said, shrugging his shoulders - "like the missionaries under the protection
of an English warship standing, and as long is in port, that they
are safe feel they have the floor, and we know them well enough but
then to know how the For use. - But I'll go with you, then at least
we have done our duty and our nothing to reproach himself.

I'll be right back, Sadie, "he said, bending down and kissing her forehead.

"Stay not so very long from today '," asked the young woman he softly whispers, and the Small
holding still on the knees, wrapped her arms around the first recipient of her father farewell,
they saw the men after a long and silent.

But Aia's words had caused but dull and painful thoughts awakened in her soul. Not for our own happiness,
she feared it; so bold and easy René stormed whatsoever in the life he remained so faithful
to what it referred to of the first hour when he saw them, and the child that he loved with
infinite tenderness wrapped the ties of the heart still tightly around her. But the wild life
of the island itself, and the hostile dünkende their religion, which threatened to fall further
and further around, and much, so terribly much of the rejected, what you up to then been considered
the most sacred soul, and the strife is between our own teachers, the allegations that were
made by the missionaries of her father o so unfair, the his Roman Church over his position to
supplied than acceptable, as well as even the only being that it was nearer, given to a Catholic
woman, and even René's indifference to a fight, but the most sacred interests of their former Salvation
was concerned, all this took her in murky past frightening images of the soul. - And so did the
poor Aia right with so many others, where she thought she shrank
from the wild goings-back, the loose band wrapped around Europeans
and islanders, and they let go as it pleased the moment.

Whether it broke the heart, the forsaken or in pain and, despite compensation sought oblivion in wild
vicious desire, and the shaft of the volatile Day closed over her, and the next sun had forgotten
what they shone yesterday in love and faithfulness.

"My beautiful Atiu," she sighed softly to himself as - "You dear, dear place in the friendly Beach
- green your palms so your fruit so sweet - Atiu. And the little old Mi-to-na-re there at
the house, so often over here thinks of his little Pu-de-ni-a, which is now - but no, no,
no, René feels comfortable here and happy in his action challenging world and once because it
is probably the time when he longs to return to that quiet place our first, most blessed happiness
- to Atiu. - And the time will come again, "continued confident she
added after a pause, "still I do not have forever farewell taken from
all the cherished locations from the good people - I just do not know
whether I shall rejoice me so warmly on it - or are afraid.

Oh it is a fairly pretty bad thing about the poor man's heart!

"

FOOTNOTES:

[B] The Indians called the island Imeo usually Morea.

Third chapter

The visit # - # Aumama.

Sadie sat there a long time dreaming, and her lively spirit appeared colorful and often whimsical
Pictures on how the heart is probably picturing in leisure hours,
musing and pondering their Colors, looks and auditioning that they
live and they are - until they dissolve into thin air, others more
colorful, perhaps to give space.

But soon the little girl she shooed the clouds from the end - If it really clouds was that their
usually cheerful face serious shade those given - and cuddling and playing with the child returned
to the smiles back on their lips, and soon she was again the merry merry child of the forest,
the God in his infinite Vaterhuld all wishes fulfilled, every day was blessed, and now also
the cheerful sunlight rejoiced in happiness and gratitude.

"Has my poor girl but evil itself almost to the heart made it difficult for a whole hour," she said, laughing,
and the child in herzend, - "has us throwing stones into the clear lake, my Sadie, and the water
turbid, all the way to the edge. But now we will again laugh and sing and be merry until Dad
comes back and says to me, at my dear little daughter. Hark, what is it? - You hear my child,
as the trappelt and trappelt out there? - The ~ BUAA a fai Tatatu ~ [C] clatters over and Sadie
- but what is it? "she interrupted quickly, and almost frightened, as closer and closer to horses'
suddenly stopped at her gate and she heard voices - "foreigners out
here with us? - What made for an exciting busy life these foreign
men but to our silent Islands have, "she then added slowly and shaking
his head," and blow up noisily and laughing it the week as the Sabbath
streets, no longer the holy day of their own Taking care of God as
if the ringing of bells or the Oro Taua subverted.

It was silent on Atiu and peaceful, and when we got there - ha, I really believe people want
to come here. "

"This must be the place," said a woman's voice suddenly out on the
street, in French language that Sadie had, even in the short time,
perfectly good and fluent René speak of learning - "They were followed
my advice earlier, ~ ~ Monsieur Belard, it would We do not need to
gallop a few Miles into the blue - we descend?

"

"In any case, if the ladies please," replied a male voice, "he can hardly any Where to live differently.
"

Sadie the her child in her arms, stepped on a small expansion, from
which they, by a dense bush of the Cap-Jasmin concealed the road in
front of the door could look straight, recognized three women and
two men, all on horseback, holding at the gate, now descended and
the small courtyard that lay between the flowering acacia hedge, and
entered the house.

The strangers were looking at any rate René, and to provide information, she joined them, the
child to term there Custom riding on her left hip, with a friendly against Joranna.

"Ah, there is a girl who cried a lady, holding up the long riding-skirt, close to the Home
posts had remained, and to stand for any living creature that her
speech could, seemed to have a look around, "but dear God, Lucie,
is a native, and see with my Tahitian windy out there - I can still
nothing more than ~ ~ Joranna and ~ ~ aita.

"

"I speak French, ladies," interrupted the young woman, blushing slightly
and the little girl who clung timidly to her, because of the strange
faces, with a few kind words on the floor sitting down.

"Ah, you speak French, in fact, child?" Said the other lady, from the first Lucie was called, surprise
- "and particularly with excellent pronunciation, very nice, then
You can also tell us whether Monsieur René Delavigne live here and
speak to Madame Delavigne is.

"

Sadie smiled, for she felt quite well as the strangers in her simple robe any girl of the house
were, and said with a slight inclination of the head, while but a
higher red cheeks and temples up to the neck and the dear face colored
made more charming:

"Monsieur Delavigne lives here, however, and
Madame, or Sadie Delavigne -"

"Ah, well then this its daughter? - A lovely child, "she interrupted
Madame Belard and knelt in the little ones.

"And Madame Delavigne?" Asked Mme Brouard.

"Am I myself," Sadie
whispered more than they spoke. 

The first equipment of the house must have been poor enough, for Luther was in his known generosity
and hospitality with its content is little for themselves, and although the elector is at his
marriage to aufbesserte $ 200, so it was not much to make purchases, especially for such a far-term
is building. The 100 fl, the the elector, and the 20 fl, which gave the city council for the
wedding went on for costly feast. The monastery of household effects, as far as he was dragged
away and not left by all sorts of uncalled hands, Luther had been given by the Visitors. But
it was slightly: bowls and skewers, of some other household items and garden equipment - together
barely 20 fl value. So well, the friends by the wedding gifts in the course of have usually
consisted of silver cups, directly or indirectly contributed to the barren rooms of the monastery
a bit more comfortable. Spoiled by diverse household one was at that time at all, and the two
former monastery people even less. Sun gave D. twin of Torgau a box, but he was soon so lotter and
worm-eaten that Mrs. Kathe no linen could keep it out of sheer worm flour. came Gradually, otherwise
all sorts of presents from abroad, even artificial clocks. By the City Council was the young
Couple for a year kept in wine cellars from the Council needed, but (despite many guests) for
3 Thaler. 4 pence 6 pence. Also gave the city "doctor wife Catherine Martini matrimonial wife
for the new year (1526), ​​a sulfur Bisch (Swabian cloth) [143].

The only roommate and next to last monk Luther, the prior Brisger
married immediately after Luther and moved to some time in his newly
built house, in addition to the monastery, was located forward on
the road, then on the parish Altenburg.

From the old monastery residents Luther was only Famulus Wolfgang Sieberger in the house,
the poor in money and gifts of the Spirit but study started, but it did not continue and can complete,
and better was good as a servant to the scholar, a faithful soul who from 1517 to Luther's death in
Stayed home and survived the doctor only for one year. A maid was there and others followed
soon as the budget spread out.

In this house now, the young couple first got used to some extent in peace in the marriage and
another, and Luther wrote there: "I am chained to my Kitty died and
the world"

[144].

It was the 42 years old scholar, bachelor and former monk in the first years of married life a strange
feeling when he sat at the table now selbander place alone, or if he morning waking two braids
saw lying beside him. But the younger wife, the former nun it might seem strange new state, here
in the former convent, especially on the side the mighty man of the world order was reversed,
and with Pope, Emperor, and the world Devil in the struggle was [145].

As Katherine sat in this first time with Luther later in his study, where he the flaming sword
of his spring stormed the pope, saw him surrounded by books, the table covered with letters
and writing sheets, spun and listened to him and that also questions on this and that. Your questions
are not always witnessed by the world experience and theological education. So It amused the
scholars, as they once asked: "Doctor honor, the Grand Master in Prussia brother of the Marquis?
"It was the same person. Luther dedicated his young wife soon in theological Question. When he announced
in 1527 Jonas his current view of Erasmus, he read his wife a piece of the letter before. And
she said immediately: "Is not the man to the toad has become expensive?" And she was glad that Jonathan
now had the same view with Luther on Erasmus. The Time expanded her knowledge, she learned in
her husband's house, where so many threads of the church and world history came together and so
many great men, scholars, statesmen and Prince enters, understand the world and living things
in the theological world of thought so that they talk at the table took a lively interest by
scholars and their healthy Sense and their natural feel embarrassed sometimes brought [146].

Ms Kitty had quite eloquent, so that Luther often teased her with it and they once an Englishman
as a language teacher recommended them or persuaded that it is the Amen could not find in
their sermons. He says of the experience of his wife: "women households as well speak of the
champions with sweetness and loveliness of voice and therefore, that they surpass Cicero, the
best speakers; and what to do with eloquence not to make way can attain it with the wines. And
to such eloquence of birth; because they are much more eloquent and skilful nature of these affairs,
because we men We get's through experience, practice and study. But if they except the household
talk, they are no good. "[147]

For a change, the young couple also worked in the fenced garden behind the monastery Home, where
a well was. As has been dug and planted, and all sorts of herbs, vegetables and fruit trees but
also shrubs and delicate flowers cultivated. Thus Luther was already in Invite Spalatin following
summer, "I've planted a garden, dug a well, both with good luck. Come, and you shall be garlanded
with lilies and roses. "Even to the "Luther Fountain" in front of the Elster gate, walked
out the spouses, which the doctor discovered 1521, and 1526 and had put a "pleasure house"
to build, in which he many dear time at leisure with his wife and friends sat. Otherwise, the
two were resting under the Pear tree in the courtyard, heard the already Staupitz's time some
serious conversation [148].

From the young couple, we have an image of the Cranach workshop. The young woman, more a delicate
than robust appearance, has an oval face with a thin skin color, eye opening seems a little
"slit", the jaw bone, which, in the Käthe-type emerge very strong, normal. Characteristic is the
full lower lip. The eyebrows are weak and highly curved, the little rich fine hair has red or
blond color and the pale blue eyes are intelligent bargain. The impression of the whole face can
be empty Seriously and expect some tough energy [149].

The time of first love describes the Wittenberg doctor though "not of inordinate Ardor inflamed
"with the same words as our modern poets:" The greatest grace God's is, in marriage if married
people always love each other warmly and to have. The first love is fruitful, and violently so blinded
and how we go in the drunkard; if we have drunk enough sleep, then
so keep in the God-fearing righteous Love, the wicked but have the
Reuwel.

"[150]

Of course, this time his young married life was not the reformer as idle trifling Honeymoon,
nor as an untroubled idyll gone. This is due to the desire of his mighty Work, as the hatred of his
opponents.

And at least as difficult as he had, his young suffering wife in the poisonous and dirty attacks
that once the marriage of the Reformer and injured former monk with what has been a nun.

Luther's marriage to Catherine was too monstrous deed in the eyes of his contemporaries, except
that they do not excite the most powerful sensation, and also one of the wildest suspicions had any
cause [151].

Even immediately after the ceremony had to Luther sake of this work, insults and blasphemies to
endure. And not just by the enemy. The Klüglinge "belittled" his marriage or damned it also: "The philosophers,
even among our side, are violently angry about it." This was not only Dr. Schurf, but even
his close friend Melanchthon, those who believed that whole world,
even the devil would laugh, and Luther would destroy his work.

This probably disapproved of the act itself is not known but that it was not opportune, and
thoughtless done so that the enemies have it its great fun and slander, and he also thought "Luther
had let himself be caught by nuns arts and be fooled" [152].

So it was for the couple have a pain that the family friend was not at the wedding could not even
be invited. And Luther did this behavior of friends act if only temporarily depressing and disheartening.
Since Lara was probably a serious Task to straighten him and encouraging. The other friends, his
Gevattersleute Kranach especially helped. And finally moderated also Melanchthon's chagrin,
so he consoled Luther and zealous, his grief and ill-temper by friendly and cheerful to enliven conversations
[153]. Thus Luther mind went back to the old animation. Three days after the ceremony, he writes
to Spalatin with respect to Schurf speech in the old Sound happy and confident defiance: "I was
by this marriage, so contemptuously and disdainfully made that I hope it will laugh the angels
and the devils cry. The world with its Klüglingen knows this work is not that it is divine
and sacred: it's called in my person wicked and devilish.

Derohalben I have greater pleasure in the fact that their judgments by my marriage is doomed,
so that come with it and annoy them that without knowledge God continue to remain willfully "[154].

Much
worse than the exaggerated of course, the opponent's friends. Emser ridicule and MANUFACTURED
Insulting poems, yes Eck published a whole book of such songs on Luther's wedding. The Duke
George of Saxony, Luther's particular enemy, issued a letter to Luther, which he scolded him
vehemently, and in an instruction letter to Speier Reichstag (15 May 1526) to Otto von Pack,
he insulted him with false accusations: "It appears also plainly by Martin rejected the monastic
life and so did the monks from the Monastery at Wittenberg, that he had more room to live with
his Katie, it is Convention has a whole would suggest. "The theological King Henry VIII of England,
then Defensor Fidei yet (defender of the Roman faith) after Bluebeard, drove in a Letters to
the Reformer, "What?

You have witnessed not only her, but what an infinitely accursed, they have even brought home as
his wife related, "[155]

These writings - except for the George - was Latin, and went first to the learned world. Among
the people but defamatory libel against the two spouses were scattered. The humanist Erasmus
King made fun by means of ribald jokes: when the Antichrist monks and nuns child would, would run the
world of anti-Christians, but the Lie from a prematurely born child he has with willful malice
in his letters Men at high spreads, until he then had to withdraw.

The marriage of Luther is the arrogant Humanists, but still a farce, with the stored the learned
doctor the philosopher's mantle and reduced to an ordinary person would [156].

But even closer to the young woman came soon after their marriage
the abuse.

"A Bürgersweib Clare, Eberhard Lorenz Jessner marital housewife has been useless words, and Dr. Luther
and abused his respectable wife and scolded, "of course" the pastor's wife too ill reached
"in MA John Lubeck economy Wittenberg [157].

Finally two Leipzig master, John Hasenberg and Joachim written by Heidt (Miricianus) Print
in prose and poetry in Latin and German Send letters and left them. Rabbit's Diatribe was aimed "to M.
Luder and his wife Catherine of illegitimate Bohra, so they convert to either the prodigal son and
to repentance and holiness of monastic life or return but her groom nun Luther's Christ Church
and her mother back office "for punishment in hell. Heidt wrote "A Sendbrieff Kether of Bhora,
Luther vermeynthem sampt wife a gift kindly been made.

" The two young people had the nerve, these writings by its own messenger Luther and his wife
into the house to To send, however, in the foolish hope, at least Kate turned away from her husband to
make and return to move the convent.

Of course, these two documents had the opposite effect. Luther's servant driven with the same
mocking, they sent the "young spoons illuminated (illustrated) in the back room" with the messenger
back to a rectangular writing table, on it were the 6 letters Asini (Donkey) so distributed that they
are seen from the center, could read at forty times.

The chivalrous but Luther took care of his wife and had "a new fable of the donkey Aesopii
and lions "with comfortable jokes printed and sent them to his friend link with the words:
"The Leipzig Käthe have denigrated my ass with silly insults, which is answered been, of which
you see here before my eyes. "[158]

The insults were joined hazards. The night before Michaelmas 1525, Luther had dared, in the
areas of his fiercest opponent, the Duke George of Saxony-Meissen to get abducted thirteen
young women of the royal monastery of Freiberg. "I have this Prey snatched from the raging tyrant,
"he announced triumphantly to his friend Boots. In Of course George was furious, but the nobility
was angry with Luther's act of violence - had yet the relatives of the nuns by her resignation
fear loss of property: even noble Friends of the Reformation took it amiss Luther. There were threats
against him loudly, and his Life was in danger if he somehow fell into a pile of sticks or
the hands of farmers, because the peasants he was so little favorable since the uprising. Now
Luther was 19 to November to Spalatin wedding to Altenburg loaded, where the former secretary
of the deceased electors was parish priest now. Luther insisted to the friend's birthday. But Käthe
stopped him and implored him with tears even from the dangerous journey. So that her husband
ruled his heroic liberators Reformation Office and other poor Young
women did what happen to her, and "Satan that booty abjagte Christ"
which prevented Ms Kate, but she insisted that he is not needlessly
went in danger.

Such Danger to life she had always feared for her husband, to which, as a prince even many
attacks were planned and attempted [159].

However, they left it to the end of February the following year that Luther in accordance Segrehna
Kemberg accompanied. In this village at that time held the former enthusiast, iconoclast agitator
and Peasants Karlstadt as peasant and rural shopkeepers hidden. So much pain and Make it also
made Karlstadt, Luther had taken his old colleague and he sought
a pardon to the elector.

And now, Karl Luther's wife to town gossip asked. Also on this labor of love she was willing
not only made himself the arduous Travel, but even let her husband go with [160].

Already this year common life Luther learned to understand his wife
better, deeper love and later eighth.

Had he thought before the wedding, proud and arrogant, so He now writes: "I thank God it is submissive,
obedient and pleasing, more than I would have hoped, so I would not exchange my poverty with
the wealth of Croesus. "[161]

Melanchthon had expressed the hope that Luther's marriage will make it measured, and soothe his
unruly, coarse nature. The thought probably the Archbishop Albrecht, by its Registrar Rühel,
Luther's brother, the wife of twenty gold florins as a wedding gift
was rich, which took like Catherine, but Luther rejected.

Erasmus believed soon have made the remark that Luther had become milder and not so much with
the Spring rage. For, he adds in his usual sarcastic way: "Nothing is so wild that a Woman
is not tame it "[162].

It just is not in general be to deny.

And in fact, Luther was - but by princely to agreement - in the conciliatory tone against Duke George,
and King Henry VIII hear - of course without this consent to this conciliatory: they exploited
rather his letter from, to make him despicable. But in his reformatory
career Kate has her husband neither can nor want to prevent [163].

Not even in the first days of his marriage. Yes, Mrs Katherine planned well even with him during
preparation for their repatriation, the liberation of the Freiberg
nuns: the invitation to Koppe to the wedding also included a request
to this new, bolder predators monastery [164]!

And on New Year's Day 1526 Luther painted again in a lampoon the papacy with his Broken off
and wrote: "It's my number, you should now cease, and the Papacy to mock holy orders. With those
containing self nit, but must pour it until nothing Despicable on earth was, for these bloodthirsty
Isabel. "[165]

7. Chapter.

Catherine as a mother of her children and household.

A year after their marriage on 7 June 1526, when the day is the calendar Dat. "(Ie: He gives)
gave Lara her husband, a son, that was how the parents saw with joy, healthy and without blemish.
By 2 clock in the afternoon it came to the world, was early at 4 to clock it to the fashion of
M. deacon baptized Rorer.

Godparents were the Superintendent D. Bugenhagen, the Provost Justus Jonas, Luther L. Goodman
Cranach, the Vice Chancellor Baier and in the absence The Chancellor Müller Mansfeld. One of
the godmother was the wife of the mayor Hohndorf. After the child's grandfather was the name
of John [166].

Matt was also doing well, though the mother breast-feeding did slow done and the child the
milk intolerant difficult. The boy will soon be happy and strong and a homo vorax et bibax
(heavy eaters and drinkers) learned to slide on his knees, gets the New Year 1527 his teeth
are, and learn to go and begins to babble, and all with lovely insults to scold. As a reward
for all these little Hans Jonas Arts sends a "silver John ", a coin
with the image of the elector [167].

Soon, the two-year-old even proud of a rattle, which he paid by the pastor home received (1528).
This first-born is mentioned for years in every letter and must always
and all the way to greet friends. It is a delightful picture when
the father of his son said: "If I sit and write or Thue anything else,
he sings a little song to me Therefore, and if he wants to make it
too loud, so I drive him a little, he nevertheless sings gone, but
he maketh's secret and with a little worry and fear. So God willing,
too, that we need always to be happy, but with fear and reverence
for God. "And again Matt was sitting at the table and lallete of life
in the sky, as such a great joy was there with Eating and dancing,
there is the greatest pleasure: the water flowed with milk and the
bread vain were growing on trees. As the doctor was happy about the
happy life of the child [168].

A half year old dog was left alone,
since followed on 10 December 1527, during the plague in Wittenberg
and Luther raged in the house, a sister, Elizabeth. Jonas congratulates
Doctor to and jokes about his small son: "My son, your daughter welcomed
as his future bride. "But on 3 

Melanchthon's son-Sabinus, a humanist and poet, had Luther's old opponent, the Cardinal-Archbishop
Albert, who himself up like a Maecenas as his patrons celebrated and at his wedding with daughter
Melanchthon (1536) was the archiepiscopal Chancellor Türk lived as guests, so a while to Sabinus
Albrechts court. About this time also made other Roman princes of the church attempted to
Melanchthon to bring to their side. Luther was angry on the "Erasme intermediary", though he did
not think a second would Melanchthon to Erasmus. The followers of Luther, Cordatus Schenk and
went, but sharper Melanchthon before and was afraid of this kind in his anxious before an open debate
with Luther. Kitty would like a friendly discussion of the two old friends desired; the "doctor"
lamented the alienation of these, it also spoke to Cruce and others Friends, hoping to bring about
a confrontation. But this contradicts the "Weibertyrannei" the woman Xu [452].

Now I added something else.

1537 got a certain M. Simon Lemchen (Leminus) to Wittenberg, who was approached form a friend
and comrade of Sabinus, but also lacking in character such as this. For this Schöngeist Melanchthon used
for a scholarship at the Council of Augsburg, because he was educated partly in Augsburg city
and this laudable for his country held. He was really a support of 20 fl was then that Sabinus came
to Wittenberg and much wrong with his friend [453].

At Pentecost in 1538 now has Lemnius posed the "infamous Jack Epigrammata and even some sell
to the church doors can be a very Erzschund, shame and lies book, resist much honest man and
womankind, and churches of this city well known. "Of course, made the Booklet in the small town
of the most embarrassing and caused a stir ugly gossip. Melanchthon was as rector of the censorship
of literary phenomena of university members to . Practice Thus arose the suspicion against
him, that he had purposely written the nasty Print . Let But Luther was soon convinced that it
is "beyond the knowledge and consent of those who ordered it is to judge, "had gone out. And so
calmed the woman doctor soon. The "Poetaster and Leuteschänder" Lemnius fled and was expelled,
but retaliated by an obscene abuse poem on Luther and Kitty's marriage as a professor to other
families Wittenberg [454]. The good agreement between the two families stood restored soon.
Käthe can still send the absent master Philip respectful greetings and this "to greet Luther
revered wife and sweet children" does not fail as before. Yes, the relationship with him after
this incident shows even more friendly [455]. You allows the master to thank particularly insistent
that he not to her doctor with Schmalkalden - Has taken - In bad thinking. They assured him
of their particularly warm love and affection. As Melanchthon because of the Hessian marriage history
fatally shocked nadir, she is brave and cheerful ", and assured him of their sincere with her husband
Love and promises to diligently and vigorously to pray for him. They can sign him to Worms, it just
boils Wittenberg beer for him to receive him and his comrades with them. And M. Phil can also be
carefully report on their well-being and would be very worried hear if he would, if it were
the evil doctor's wife. Luther's death, he still sends their behalf to Eisleben news and physic
[456].

Certainly a temporary upset occurred more rapidly in 1544 as a result
of a complaint that the Käthe Melanchthon made and the sensitive champion
Phil was probably too heavy; they were saying, you think he prefers
his Swabian peasants before the Saxons.

That could yet be neither meant nor taken as seriously as he recalls in a letter Jonas friend
sued the δεσποινα (ruler) about [457].

The movement of these House friends with Ms Kitty features a letter from the same Augsburg wrote
in 1530, the doctor, it is the tone of respectful friendliness a
touch of humor Luthersche, but also proof of how enterprising wife
Käthe was that economic Melanchthon even gave her orders, rather than
his own wife, who he probably had to hold for less ready for writing,
when the Lutheran woman.

The letter reads, together with the Address as [458]:

"The honest virtuous wife Cathy Luth Erin Doctor, my very good friend.

God's grace and goodness!

Chaste, virtuous woman doctor!

I add you to know that we are now, God grant grace, are to come and
have gene Augsburg Doctor to the Lord Coburg left as he ohn doubt
you wrote.

But I hope to be short in him. Pray you, ye will write me how things go and how has sheweth
the captain grain sake. What can I do for you, I will with all diligence, I know I'm to blame,
do such and align.

Both Chancellor [459] salute you and wish you good old.

May God forbid!

Date Augsburg, Wednesday after Walpurgis. Philip.

Duke George of Saxony to come tomorrow. The Emperor is still remote,
but comes.

Dear friend! Also, I wish you, Matt Luther and Magdalenchen and aunt Lene much blessed time.
Pusset me in my name, my dear boy.

J. Jonas.

I, Johann Agricola Eißleben, mean well, too, my dear doctor's wife. "

As here in the letter, have taken upon themselves the friends of Kate's table at the Theological Round
Table in the speech contest at the cost of the shortest grace. Since then shows Luther's ingenuity,
Bugenhagen homely comfort and elegant refinement of Melanchthon in the sayings of Luther: Dominus
Jesus sit potus et esus (the Lord Jesus was eating and drinking); Pommer: "dit and dat, lazy and natt,
Gad blessed us, "and Melanchthon: Benedictus benedicat (the blessed bless) [460].

Besides the two women colleagues Jonas and Melanchthon is well especially with Catherine Barbara
Cranach have perverted and Mayoress Reichenbach, her foster mother, both older matrons, and also
with the family of the printer Hans Lufft. Of course was the wife of the doctor to make the circles,
so it was by far the most prestigious Mrs. Wittenberg and appropriate
to their status when they champion Luke on the altar-piece the town
church with her child in the front row you wore paints the fine gold
shimmer Fur around the shoulders or in stripes on the dress that distinguishes
the patrician.

A certain Self-esteem, they can also hinted on several occasions. So she leaves a friend of her husband
"Warn certainly no Bauernkloppel to marriage is increasing; can because they are rude and proud
the men not to have good, can also cook nor pressing.

In addition, of course, went them with other women (in the way today's women's associations)
ill women and mothers and deed to the hand [461].

But it also understands that a woman of the plant and the temperament and education Catherine More
on dealing with men stopped, and that this interaction, to which
they cause so much and had the opportunity, they made little inclined
to move too much in female company.

To have friends around, Luther was a need. He hated from the loneliness of fear "Challenges" - he had
but at night the devil are enough speech.

"Before going I to my swineherd John and pigs initially, because
when I stayed alone, "says it for example to a contested.

He was always in the company when he walks drove [462].

In the Bible (1525-34) and revision of the Bible (1539-42) were the
agents of Luther, Melanchthon, Bugenhagen, Jonas, Cruce, Aurogallus
and fast writer and proofreader Tube to the evangelical "Sanhedrin"
together, and afterwards they were often there at the table, disputed
further, or even recovered from cheerful conversation and song.

Thus the guest table in Kitty's house was never empty - that caused Luther.

But she dedicated to him personally and especially as a real German woman her life.

14. Chapter.

Lara and Luther.

"This is a blessed man who has a good marriage. For there is no smooth, friendly still hold
blessed Verwandtnis, community and society, because a good marriage if married people to live
in peace and unity. The highest grace of God, is a devout, kind, God-fearing husband have with
which you may live peacefully, you who darffst all your good and
what you have, so trust your body and life.

"Luther extols marriage, and his marriage and his Wife, who showed him the nature and the ideal of married
life before our eyes and realized. They gave him a nice home, a happy household, they waited
and took care of him and faithfully served him "like a wife, even as a maid" [463].

Kathe among all was for her Lord doctor physical well-being in healthy and sick days [464].

The "Erzköchin" understood the physical needs of her husband's needs, she knew which corresponded
to his taste and what was good for his health. Luther also knew what that means, and that "is this
a tortured man whose 'wife and maid, not knowing in the kitchen: it is the first accident, from
which the first of many evils "But that's does servants. not, but, as Luther writes in his
house book: "The eyes of women cook well." [465]

Luther loved when a real peasant child and blessed with a healthy appetite, rather coarse fare.
Sumptuous dishes made him discomfort. He praised a pure, good, common house dining: Herring
and peas he was a favorite dish [466]. But his wife soon realized that the doctor with his sedentary
life, in his strenuous mental activity and especially because in the days of his unnatural
monastery and his bachelor life Nature had very spoiled and suffered from indigestion to severe
dizziness, - That this good board and it was inimical to it especially with other plant foods,
particularly to help in fruit, should, and anyway she was on exchange in the supply considered [467].
So they had because in her pantry, and storage in basement not only peas and millet, Grits, pearl
barley and rice in stock, because there was cabbage, cabbage, carrots, beets and fruit, and the native
loquat Luther loved her more than all bulbous figs, peaches and estimated
He is particularly high and almost the same grapes.

Since the monastery was not only steers and Pigs slaughtered, fresh and geese and ducks, chickens,
pigeons, and thrushes, and dry fish and crabs were a delicacy on the table. Game was high time
roast Luther found it but with his black meat to "melancholy". Although Lara kept himself Cattle and
chickens, planted all sorts of fruit and vegetables, put fruit, baked the daily bread and boiled
beer, but much still had to buy it, or it was given, namely provided the court for game and
the friends of beautiful fruit: BORSDORF, gold and blood apples. Käthe but seasoned food with
salt, pepper, saffron, with poppy, "Zippel" (Cipola, onion) Parsley, cumin and Karbey schmälzte,
with butter and sweetened with honey and sugar.

For dessert always fruit was there: apples, pears, peaches and nuts, in the cherry season
and hung a Kirschenast on the table [468].

Therefore, the doctor nothing tasted better than his home-made food and drinks and nowhere he is
comfortable, well-ordered than at home at his table.

Rather than the pressed cheese, which Lauterbach herschickt away from Pirna, he must be "our cheese
from simple materials and simple Form ". The gift of beer he finds Jonas, advocating that the beer
from his Lara praises as a proven remedy for gallstones, so he calls it downright the "queen
of beers". In court he remembered his "friendly love the Lord" Katherine, well as wine and beer
at home was, where he had to do a bad or thick trunk of the eat heavy bread that it get so bad
[469].

And as always longed Luther of the inconveniences of travel and foreign hostel after his comfortable
home and the warm cozy bed!

Lara followed so the old rule, which Luther so much inculcated young women, "Stop So up against
your husband that he is happy when he was on the way back of the
house tips seen.

"[470]

Of course, Ms Kitty, also related to the preparation of meals her husband with his own sense to fight,
for the doctor often enjoyed several days nothing, or he just ate a fried fish and a piece of bread
when he wanted to study undisturbed, he took a bite of bread and retired to his Studierstüblein
his old monk's cell, and never came to dinner and - To sleep. He joined again to the 22th explain
psalm, one with bread and salt and arrived three days is not revealed. As was Käthe but anxious
to mute, she tapped and called at the door No reply. She had now come to the locksmith and break
open the door. Then he cried angrily: "What do you want? Do you think there is something bad,
what I plan? Know You not know that I must act, so long as it is
day: for it is the night when no one act can!

"Another time (1541) she had her hands full with the stubborn patient who at his "challenge"
Two weeks could not sleep and nothing to eat and drink nothing wanted [471].

Of course at some other time Luther was also launched at a celebratory banquet or a small Friends
of the feast, for he said: "May our Lord God create large pike and Rhine wine, I may eat and
drink, and it is the love God so if you even from the bowels of rejoice
or laugh.

"There now knew Käthe her husband's birthday, the Doktorstag, Others adorn the Thesentag festive.
"The Kingdom" on 3 May with a meal celebrated, "as sung psalms, gospels say the catechism, prayers,
such as a all was launched;. it had to answer the house servants "On St. Nicholas, the Gifted
children, on New Year's and the servants. Particularly but Christmas was celebrated festively
and the children enjoyed it and the parents with them. Käthe but made sure that all good things
and beautiful things came into the room and on the table [472].

Proved quite excellent but Mrs. Kitty as a nurse. As they showed all their Experience, skill
and energy. And what does it all for diseases in such a large Family gave be imagined. There
were not only the children and students, which sorts Childhood diseases, some deadly underwent;
since Luther have dragged all sick friend and friends into the Black Temple, so that after his
own expression is often a "Hospital" was [473].

The long and difficult patient was indeed the doctor himself [474]. He was sick actually from the
beginning, and always new diseases came to the old dysentery, fever, painful Skin rashes and ulcers,
rheumatism, Hüftenweh and chest discomfort. He was in particular a nasty thorn in the flesh:
the stone that plagued him as "blows of Satan", then he caused his indigestion oppression, rush of blood
to the head, headache, Ringing in the ears and dizziness, cramps and fainting: seizures, in which
he called "challenges the devil "violently and feared him often with deep sadness filled [475].
Since was to be a patient and cheerful nurse. And women understand their Käthe to treat patients
better than the great doctors, the men doctors, they knew how the patient had to deal with food
and medicines, they stopped him with wine, and boiled his body cleansing beer, she rubbed her leg with
medicated ointment and Aquavitä, and warmed to him the body with hot towels: They refreshed him
with all sorts and Kraftküchlein Juices; they knew an effective root
against the stone, and many home remedies: they scraped Bernstein
him from an old rosary and solved it with the white pieces of amber,
which The Duke of Prussia as a remedy for the stone sent [476].

According to the testimony of her son, the ex post famous doctor Paul Luther, it was half a
doctor. He said in his inaugural speech to his professorship in Jena: "My mother is not alone in
breast diseases by Council and helped cure many, but often men too, free of side pain. "[477] Trusted
her, therefore, Luther also better than "our Lord's flicker," the doctors and pharmacists. When Luther
mortally ill and the doctors Schmalkalden him drugs stated, "as if he would be a big ox," and
the Swabian Carnifex (Schinder, torturer) said, "Oh, dear Doctor,
you have a good, strong body, you've probably add more; You must,
by God!

Suffer when you attack "- as he thought of his wife and their beneficent home remedy and sought,
not in spite of all terrors such a journey, like home [477].

Luther had the principle: "I eat what tastes good and suffer according to what I must. I also ask for
the doctors nothing, I want my life, so I asked them for a year is not to make angry, but eat
and drink in God's name and what I liked. "So says Ratzeberger the doctor, personal physician
of Princess Elisabeth of Brandenburg, who with her to Wittenberg fled, then the Earl of Mansfield
and last of the Elector of Saxony's personal physician - even to Times of Luther's own doctor
[478]:

"As Dr. Luther for the first time on calculo (stone) was ill, he had escaped the appetite and
shrank from elsewhere before common physic from the pharmacy. He also had great physical Pain
and no sleep. When he could not eat or drink and all that he his wife in the best and most diligent
dressed, slipped by, she asks him most diligently, but even he would choose a dish, he wants
to feel like. "Well," he says, "So I teach a herring and a meal of cold peas with mustard, because
you want so, that I should eat, and do such only balde before me the pleasure passes away; verzeuchst
you long, I do not like after this. "Thuet's wife, though with great concerns, which ordered her
Lord, and directed to the food, so they could hurry, and set it before him. As it now great
pleasure eat thereof, and the doctors to visit him - his Medici Augustin Schurf and Lic Melchior
Fend - their habit, and want to see how the event the disease.

Since they eat it now saw, they were astonished in front of this food, which she is dangerous
and unhealthy spent the night. "Ah, but what you do, sir," said Lic
Fend, "that you would ye make yourself even sicker, "Dr. Luther said
nothing quite still and always ate away and had a Pity if the Medikorum
sadness that provided so hard for him. Soon after they leave taken
from him and now thought he would even give a fatal disease, is A
large stone from him, which they have not previously been accustomed
to it and was again Lutherus healthy. The next morning she visited
him and presumed him sick in bed to find, because they saw him but
in his Schreibstüblein sit on the books of which they are highly .
Surprise "

But Käthe her husband did not only food and medicine to
quicken, but also erect and to comfort. 

That was a blow to Catherine's mother's heart! Neither industrious nor properly was her favorite and
both he would be not only the Duke, but also his father and mother guilty been. And if she liked to
say, the Duke was strict with his charges: as once against her brother Clemens, so now against
her son Hans, and although they probably contend with just as much right to that, the young,
otherwise good kind and willing person had been seduced by evil societies, remained stand the
fact that they son too much and too good have expected, and that the guardians were right
but the claim that Hans has not got to study - he was even now 25 years old! It could also good evidence
to cancel anything that the University of Konigsberg's son Luther probably too favorable exhibited
[649].

And when Hans completely gave up the scholarship and study in King Hill and far way slowly returned
home, it was the proof provided that it was of nothing better than to the ducal office. Then
he came in Weimar.

Progressed to better the children of Martin and Paul, one of which
theology, the other medicine studied, Margaret grew into a flourishing
virgin.

The war was probably Schmalkaldic else to an end, not only in Saxony, it was all sorts of Unrest
and rumors, new worry and fear. Saxons swarmed with soldiers, Wittenberg had strong quartering. And although
there were friends of peoples, but were done from the raw All sorts of soldiers acts of violence.
In the fortified city, the citizens from their own neighborhood guests
not safe to go outside the walls, no one dared, because out there
in the little town murder and manslaughter; cocky called the soldiers
the impossible [650].

And what was now back out on the farms and gardens, just where the trouble with Damage of the Schmalkalden
War were restored! There were devastation and contribution occurred on their farms. "It's the
day," complains Bugenhagen "that they in their estates, this Year (1551) suffered major damage.
"Hiking trails had to go to law before the Elector Court in January
against solver "Jan solvers -.

The old Hans Loeser († 1541), their son and gossip Luther's godfather
- had to sue wife Catherine.

This was indeed a bitter response [651].

And if they get their rights?

The elector Maurice was preparing to strike just for the old emperor. So he probably had no Time
and inclination to listen to a wailing widow.

So Ms. Catherine had to do once the acid step and apply to the Danish king, to the on 8 January
1552 including writes:

"EKM know how to graciously remember how that EKM my dear Lord blessed together the Lord and D.
Philippo Pomerano annually given a grace money which they keep to should have their household
and infants, which reported till now because of Mr EKM überreichet (been). But seeing that my poor
dear EKM always loved and for the most Christian king held, even in such EKM my blessed to worship
Mr behavior: I will prompted by urgent need, EKM unterthäniglich in my misery to request that
the Verhoff be EKM me now "universally poor and abandoned widows such unworthy my letter graciously
keep me well and follow through grace such money .

Let For EKM doubtless aware, as it stood after the departure of my nu sel man how to hold the
poor, made widows and orphans, so that (it) to have mercy, yes (even) me more by friends than
by enemies inflicted damage, which tell all EKM would be too long.

For these and other reasons I will gedränget to consult EKM submissive, after each one is so
foreign to me and have mercy on me no one wants. "

Bugenhagen supported this request in a supplement to the widow "Patris Lutheran," which "almost
(Very) lament. And with success: on 22 March came the money in his hand, he writes that SM "done
very well," the widow to console [646].

In February 1552 when the soldiers were housed at the crudest, were in the minds of Wittenberg
still scares the middle of winter by violent thunderstorms with lightning and thunder. But soon
moved from the warriors.

It now came news that Maurice in with his Saxons, the people of Brandenburg
and Hesse, the Emperor chased and almost caught the flight had (May
1552).

The captive prince (Prince Elector Johann Friedrich, Landgrave Philip of Hesse) were released,
and released the religion in the "Treaty of Passau (August 1552).

Meanwhile it had become spring and summer. Ms Kitty was able to reap and sow and peace happy that
finally after six years of war, escape was devastation occurred, also in terms of peace of the
Protestant faith, for whom her "dear" a Fire had been lit in the German countryside, whose flame
they, too, and they feel the worst, had.

Now would the poor widow can breathe a sigh of long suffering, so she hit the final, fatal Prank.

19.
Chapter.

Catherine's death.

The warriors were withdrawn from Wittenberg, but they had left a bad memory: a contagious disease,
the "plague" that back in the swamp surrounded fortress close quickly to handle and grow with
the summer heat. On 1 June was about relocation of the university advised on 10 Torgau offered
to her hostel. But to 6 July, she was still holding out in Wittenberg. Then the college moved
to the neighboring city and was in the narrow rooms of the angular Barfüßerklosters accommodated,
which had once stormed to Leonhard Koppe Carnival and the now empty.

Mrs. Catherine remained in Wittenberg, probably because of the goods had to get it, probably
the students had sons and table companions but by one and another master's, who lived in the
Black Temple, lectures. In the large, well located home it was indeed
time being unbearable.

But in the fall of the monastery was also home of the disease infected. And to pull their children
out of danger, underwent the concerned mother turn the hardships of emigration. One thing
they did span, then, invited the essentials on the car and drove her children were with her,
Paul and Margaret, while Martin's appears much earlier, the university
had followed and Hans in Weimar on the Registry worked out the Elster
gate, Torgau to [652].

Since the accident happened: the horses were afraid and went by car over hill and through Stone.
The terrified woman tried to save the lives of their children, and the wild horses stop her,
she jumped from the car, but fell so unhappy that they violently on the Body anprallte the
ground and then crashed into a ditch with cold water.

The excitement of Case, the common cold, and probably an internal injury caused a severe illness caused
[653].

Thus, the Luther family came to Torgau. Here they lived in the monastery of the "next street
which leads to the castle, in a corner house in the monastery church to the inn. Here was maintained
now wife Catherine in great pain then slowly wasting away from her
landlady and her daughter Margaret, who had now 18 years old [646].

One more bright spot saw the widow of Luther in these days of suffering. Her youngest son, Paul,
the built itself up to an able physician engaged themselves in this time with Anne Warbeck,
the daughter of the erstwhile Mr. Veit Warbeck, former canon of the Old Castle and Elector. Councilor
and Vice Chancellor of Torgau, a noble from Swabia. Her mother, Anne of Hack - also a born Swabian
- was still alive and had a house at Torgau in the Fischer Gasse [646].

Miss Anna was a resolute woman. She had worn a Damastrock with Samtschleppe and was therefore
the City Council with reference to a dress code drawn into electoral punishment been. However,
they fought back and appealed to the electors, so that an honorable
City Council a messenger to report on Anna Warb Eckin had to send
Supplicien gene Dresden for wage and tip.

S. Kurf. Gn. sent now in this subject to the honorable Council of Torgau following Adoption:

"Dear
faithful! We are honest and love of the peculiar maiden by Anne Warbeck humiliating the action
before been reported that you like her the damask velvet skirt with
tail to include wear and, moreover, you shall pay a penalty have imposed
a number of guilders.

Although we know to remind us what we have half the clothes in the police order let go, We note
however, that the imaginary father of a young women of nobility and fürstl. Council was also
the damask, which made the skirt, and the princely gift Skirts before order made above outgoing.
Hiking trails happen because we have that she should wear skirts such honor. And desirable, then,
ye will admit of its kind and to spare with the required punishment, otherwise you act against them and
so , Shew that they have no weighting to complain. It takes our entirely reliable opinion.
Date of Dresden, 30 Jan. Anno LII "[654].

This noble lady was thus the daughter-wife Catherine and this is where determined nature of their
future son wife have had their favor. But the joy of Marriage did not live wife Catherine.

Three
Months of sickness of the sick. With Christian patience they endured the suffering and care for
the children. "In the whole period of their illness, they consoled themselves and held upright
with God's word. In hot prayers they prayed for a peaceful Passing away from this tedious life.
Often, too, God commanded the church and their children and prayed that the purity of the
doctrine that God brought back by her husband's work of this period, the unaltered offspring can
be passed down. "But she herself was" in Christ , Stick like burrs to the dress, "a word that
pious after singer in the song nachsprachen [655].

On 20 December 1552 she gave up her soul.

The Vice-Rector of the University, Paul Eber, made the students through one of Melanchthon Latin
authored "corpse program known, in which their lives and suffering
described briefly was.

In particular, the memory of the last six years of suffering floated the faithful friends
of the house before our eyes and it almost seems that wrong they Chancellor Brück Others suffered.
"With their orphaned children as a widow had already heavily burdened under the greatest threats
to wander like a outlaw, great ingratitude she has learned of many, and of which they hope
because of the tremendous achievements of her husband at the church blessings was allowed, it has often
been shamefully deceived. "Instead of tough German award, with Luther in his home directory
which his fears about the treatment of his widow air had made: "The people are rough, and the
world is ungrateful," chose the learned friend to the funeral program as a Greek motto, saying
of Euripides (Orist. 1-3), but the fits the time of unbearable suffering of the widow of Luther:
"There is no evil, no skill, no Suffering that God imposed and calls it the language, nothing terrible,
not the man erlebet. "

This experience of the heathen poet has compared the "Programme" for the consolation and the
hope of Christianity, which had also comforted the Blessed in the bitter wound by the death of
her husband's marriage, her escape with the orphaned children during the war, many times the afflictions
of widowhood and the ingratitude of many people against the widow of reverend and holy man D.
Luther. The University now invite all their listeners to the funeral one, "to prove the honorable
and so the last duty to testify that they Piety of the widow, which shone so gloriously in her,
her life held up; that the orphans would take to heart deep sadness,
and that they do not forget the merits her father, which are so large
that they praise enough can not talk, that they finally together Beseech
God in prayer, keep the light of the Gospel pure and his teacher and
preacher to protect and govern, to keep the states and churches and
schools seemly to grant refuge "[656].

The following day, afternoon, three clock was the funeral of the "noble wife of the Holy Man
D. Luther. " From their guest house down the street newly built castle at the Grand electoral
residence hard rock moved past the huge train of citizens, professors and students through the
winter green to the church of St Mary's. Here at the Boys Choir with
its beautiful inscription: "Laudate pueri Dominum" was the weary pilgrim
under the conventional Celebrations buried her and the boys are up
there also sung by a farewell song have [657].

At the grave of the mother mourned her daughter and three sons.

Hans was Duke of Saxony chancery, in the following year he married Elizabeth, the Daughter of the professor
and provost at the Castle Church in Wittenberg, D. Cruce, in the His father himself had chosen
as his successor, but soon after the great doctor died. Later, Hans Luther came to his old patron,
Duke Albrecht of Prussia, in service and died not long after the
1575th

Martin, of which his father had feared he would one day be
a lawyer, studied theology; he had to live because of persistent ill
health as a private scholar and died young in the thirty-fourth Year
after he and Mayor Heil ingers daughter in Wittenberg for some time
in childless Marriage had lived.

Paul, the youngest, was a respected physician, Dr. and professor at Jena and Duke's personal physician,
Council and then the personal physician to the Elector of Saxony,
Brandenburg and later.

He married Soon after the mother's death with his fiancée Anna Virgin of Warbeck, and descendants
he live in the female line today.

Margaret married in 1555 "in the presence of many counts and lords" with George of Kunheim, Erbherrn
on Knaute at Konigsberg, who studied in Wittenberg and perhaps with Mrs. Catherine had lived and
fed. She lived with her husband, the Duke of Prussian Judges to Tapiau, in the happiest marriage,
and died as a mother of nine children in 1570 [646].

Of the numerous sex Luther and the ancestress Catherine are now a few Descendants remain. Nimbschen
From the monastery, where Virgin Catherine lived 15 years, are now only three ancient gray walls,
overgrown with wild vines. About Zulsdorf going since 1801 Plow, and only a monument called
the place where it has so prevailed much. Their gardens in Wittenberg, where she worked and earned
are partly built over with new rows of houses. Only the monastery building still stands, where
they lived for twenty years with the great doctor, though only the living room to some extent
in the old state.

In the town of Torgau to church but became Mrs. Catherine - probably
from their children - a grave memorial built of gray sandstone, but
not a serious work of art, on the model of Plaster reliefs that hung
from a manufactured realistic artists in Zulsdorf and still seen in
the church is Kieritzsch.

On their tomb is Mrs. Catherine in half relief Work carved as matron in the long coat and
white scarf. With a cheerful face she looks to herself as a mother on Sunday at a well-spent
day's work, in the Hands she holds an open book as a sign of their devotion and their zeal in
the Bible reading; So as a devout Mary the diligent Martha is shown.

You are at the head of the arms Luther and Bora. Around the edge is the inscription: "Anno 1552
20 December is in God Blessed indemnified | PEN alhier in Torgau Lord | D. Martini Luther
blessed Hinder Failure wittbe Katharina |.

  Borau of "[658]
  
  has an artistic ideal addition
  to the many realistic portrait of
  Catherine Master Lucas Cranach created
  the altarpiece in Wittenberg. There sits Katharina as a devout listener
of her husband's preaching before her child in the front row the community
- that is also thoughtful as Mary.

A poetic monument has the mistress
Luther's Reformation in the first-anniversary 1617 winning poet Balthasar
Mencius, poet laureate, devoted, in simple, guileless Doggerel [659]:

Catherine
von Bora, I'm Gnant Born in the Meissner Landt from an old noble strain
these things as my Anherrn indicate God and the Roman Empire with
honor and glory have served the same. Money I want you can
not, but a rich God I will let you. The me you do not miss. Up only pious! Because you'll help
to God. "And when someone reminded him that he would, for the good gather his family a small
fortune, as he replied: "I will not do; otherwise they do not rely on God and their hands, but
on their money, "[269]. This Surely too theological, indeed monastic position, added the sober
practical sense Catherine, who was just intent on her five children still without an heir acquire,
for they knew better than Luther, that after his death, the generosity Remove the Princes
and friends probably will with the disappearance of the great advantages which the reformer
living his country and his city and his friends gave. Sun brought they, in fact, approaches,
that the children but a very respectable family estate was left [270].

"The praise of a virtuous woman" - not only in the Bible has translated Luther, but also at the
table together and often led to his Kitty related, so that - with extended Additive - under the
table talk is, as a tribute to his wife: "The man trusts familiar to them and their old. There's
is no shortage of food. She works and creates happy with their hands, testifies to the house
and is like a merchant ship from a distant land Was much 'and brings good. Early on she stands,
feedeth her servants, and gives her the maids allotted part. She thinks for a field and buys
it and lives by the fruit of her hands. It prevents damage and sees what brings righteous. Her
jewelry is that they are clean and is hard "[271].

10.

Chapter

Domestic sorrows and joys.

It was a difficult budget, the woman had to keep Lara, if only the economic Concerns in the house
and yard, kitchen and cellar, the garden and the field does. But still their performance is
admirable, if one takes into consideration all the people, as children and servants, as a
table and of the household daily and hourly demand on their Care home and make clothes, food
and drink, in education and discipline - all Apart from the guests and friends in the Black
Abbey, and went out. So very large family not only caused much trouble
and work, but also brought a diverse exchange of joy and sorrow in
the house.

Experienced such Käthe in a few Decades, diseases and festivals,
weddings and deaths for each other and often coexist.

Same in the second year of their married life the doctor had to go through hard times [272].

Ms
Kitty was startled by a sudden attack of illness of her husband, as she had never experienced
this violence in him, though he several times dizziness . Learn A terrible fear and anxiety
preceded the attack. Saturday 6 August morning he felt on the left ear and jaw fat of the land
as a boisterous gale and surf, so awful and unbearable that it is only a satanic influence
could write. It passed quickly, thank God. But he feared that this was perhaps the Harbinger of
a more serious and deadly attack, so he sent his servant at 8 clock Wolf to his confessor
Bugenhagen, this may come suddenly. Bugenhagen ran scared the monastery, but since the doctor
was in "normal shape" to stand at his wife. Why he had sent for him?

"To no evil thing will," replied Luther, went with him, then go away, confessed and sought-after
for the day the Lord's Supper.

Meanwhile it had become almost time for lunch (ie by 10 clock). And as Luther Bugenhagen and
by several noblemen, Max von Walle rock, Hans von solvers including loading a guest was demanded
from him Bugenhagen to come along, hoping that distraction should he well, if he do not sit
at home alone, but with movements of people. Luther struck from. Bugenhagen But it was behind
wife Katherine, and this brought to Luther, to roam In Paul Mayor 'inn. There, he ate and drank,
but very little, and entertained the guests reasonable happiness.
At twelve clock he got up and went to Jonathan D. little garden behind
the house and talked there for two hours with the provost. When leaving,
he invited Jonas and his wife, they should eat in the evening with
him. The
farmers brought the city does not supply, so that a famine was created and the measures of meal
5 penny was a penny Goose 2 [275].

Only Kate stayed upright in this old need, "bravely in faith and health to the body," and yet she was
near her confinement. She used her husband and child, nieces and guests. The deacon Tube with
his little boy, Paul, which screamed for her mother, Kate took on even more, Luther and Jonas still
urgently invited to visit, as it was a little better. By Mochau was included in the ordinary winter
room (living room), Ms. Hanna was in Catherine's Bower (heatable room), an old dog in the study,
the doctor and the woman stayed Luth in front of the large auditorium. Finally, the 'Mochau "cut
the bump, and after the poison was out, it went better. Finally, in mid-November gave way to the
disease. The couple were glad that the evil spirit of the Pest was driven only in the pigs and
with the victims to ransom. Matt was fresh and lively, Hanna recovered and escaped the Mochau
trouble with the death, Luther's condition and mood was better, especially when the University gradually
returned and he started his usual teaching was again [276].

In this period (10 December) is now Lara came to the painful weeks with her daughter Elisabeth
down, just as the husband of a lecture he returned home. The previous
Strain but had left their mark, and the mother was legally attacked.