Two days later, Sir Charles Tryon arrived, a short, square man with most unprofessional high
spirits and a jolly laugh that filled everyone with hope.  It was late in the afternoon when
he got to Wankelo, and, after a cursory test of Druro's eyes, he announced himself unable to
give a decisive verdict until after a more complete examination the following day.  He then
departed to his brother's house for dinner and a good night's rest after his long journey.

No sooner had Dick tucked him safely away than he was back again at the hospital, for he had
a very shrewd notion of the brand of misery Druro, condemned to a night's suspense, would be
suffering.  And he guessed right.  Emma Guthrie, just arrived, was in the act of "cheering
him up" with an account of the mine's output from the monthly clean-up that day.

"How many ounces?" asked Druro indifferently.  The prosperity of the mine bothered him far
less than the fate of his eyes, for he knew himself to be one of those men who can always find
gold.  If one mine gave out, there were plenty of others.

"Five hundred, as usual," said Guthrie jubilantly.  "Here it is--feel it; weigh it."

From a sagging coat pocket he abstracted what might, from its size and shape, have been a bar
of soap but for the yellow shine of it, and placed it in Druro's right hand.  The latter lifted
it with a weighing gesture for a moment and handed it back.

"That's all right."

"All right!  I should say!" declaimed the bright and bragful Emma. "Two thousand of the best
there, all gay and golden!  I tell you, Lundi, we've got a peach.  And she hasn't done her
best by a long chalk.  She's only beginning.  You buck up and get your eyes well, my boy, and
come and see for yourself."  He began to hold forth in technical terms that were Greek to Tryon
concerning stopes, cross-cuts, foot-walls, stamps, and drills.  Every moment his voice grew
gayer and more ecstatic.  He seemed drunk with success and unable to contain his bubbling,
rapturous optimism, and that Druro sat brooding with the sinister silence of a volcano that
might, at any instant, burst into violent eruption did not appear to disturb him.  Fortunately,
some other men came in and relieved the situation; when Guthrie took his leave, a few moments
later, Tryon made a point of accompanying him to the gate.  He was getting as sick as Druro
of Emma's perpetual gaiety and came out with the distinct intention of saying so as rudely
as possible.

"What do you mean by bringing your devilish good spirits here?  Have you no bowels?  Kindly
chuck it for once and for all."

Guthrie, squatting on his haunches, feeling his bicycle tyres, turned up to him a face grown
suddenly rutted and haggard as a Japanese gargoyle.

"That drum-and-fife band is only a bluff, Dick," he said quietly.  "The Leopard is G. I., and
if that boy loses his eyes as well, neither of us will ever climb out of the soup again."

Tryon came out of the gate and stared at him interestedly.

"What do you mean?  How can the Leopard----"

"I mean that the reef is gone--for good, this time."

"The reef gone?" reiterated Tryon stupidly.  "Why--good Lord, I thought you'd found it richer
and stronger than ever!"

"So we did.  But, my boy, mining is the biggest gamble in the world. It pinched out, sudden
as a stroke of apoplexy, a few days after Lundi's accident.  We've got a month's crushing in
hand now, and when that's gone, we'll have to shut down.  We're bust!"

"But what about that five-hundred-ounce clean-up you handed him?"

"All bluff!  I drew two thousand quid for native wages and threw it into the melting-pot. 
That lovely button goes back to the bank tomorrow.  They've got to be bluffed, too, until Lundi's
able to stand the truth."

"I don't know if he'll thank you for it, Emma," said Tryon, at last.

"I don't say he will; I don't say Lundi can't take his physic when he's got to, as well as
any man.  But I can reckon he's got an overdose already.  I'll wait."

Tryon stared a while into the shrewd, wizened face, then said thoughtfully:

"I think you're quite right.  There are moments when enough is too much, and I haven't a doubt
but that a little extra bad luck would just finish what chance he has of seeing again.  Keep
it up your sleeve anyway, until we hear my brother's verdict."

"Oh, I'll keep it," said Emma grimly.  "Once his bandages are off, we'll let the hornets buzz,
but not before."

"Meantime," remarked Tryon, "if you like to make me a present of the information, I will promise
to use it carefully and for nothing but Druro's benefit."

Guthrie gave him a long, expressionless glance.

"There are worse things than having your eyes clawed out by a leopard," continued Dick enigmatically.

"What worse?"

"You might, for instance, have your heart plucked out by a vulture while you're lying helpless."

"Poison the carcass!" Emma elegantly advised.  "That'll finish the vulture before it has time
to gorge full."  And, as he straddled his battered bicycle, he added a significant remark,
which showed that he very well knew what he was talking about.  "Lundi'll always be blind about
women, anyway."

Tryon did not return to Druro's room, but went thoughtfully toward that wing of the hospital
in which he knew the quarters of the young and pretty matron to be situated.  Having found
her, he put before her so urgent and convincing an appeal for an interview with Mrs. Hading
that she went herself to ask that lady to receive him.  A clinching factor was an adroit remark
about his brother's interest in Druro's chances. He guessed that such a remark repeated would
bring him into Marice Hading's presence quicker than anything else, and he was right.  Within
five minutes, he was in the softly shaded, violet-scented room where Druro had groped his way
some nights before--the difference being that he could see that which Druro had mercifully
been spared.

The beauty of the woman sitting in the long chair had been torn from her like a veil behind
which she had too long hidden her real self. Now that she was stripped, a naked thing in the
wind, all eyes could see her deformities and read her cold and arid soul.  The furies of rage
and rancour were grabbling at her heart, even as the leopard had scrabbled on her face.  It
was not the mere disfigurement of the angry, purplish scars that twisted her mouth and puckered
her cheeks.  A shining spirit, gentle and brave in affliction might have transformed even these,
robbing them of their hideousness.  But here was one who had "thrown down every temple she
had built," and whose dark eyes were empty now of anything except a malign and bitter ruin.
It was as though nothing could longer cover and conceal her cynical dislike of all things but
herself.  The face set on the long, ravaged throat, once so subtly alluring, had turned hawklike
and cruel.  It seemed shrivelled, too, and, between the narrow linen bandages she still wore,
it had the cunning malice of some bird of prey peering from a barred cage.

Tryon looked once, then kept his eyes to his boots.  He would have given much to have fled,
and, in truth, he had no stomach for his job. It seemed to him uncommonly like hitting at some
wounded creature already smitten to death.  But it was not for himself he was fighting. It
was for Gay's sweet, upright soul, and the happiness of a man too good to be thrown to the
vultures of a woman's greed and cruelty.  That thought hardened his heart for the task he had
in hand.

Marice came to the point at once.  It seemed that, with her beauty, she had lost or discarded
the habit of subtle attack.

"What does Sir Charles think of his chances?"

It was Tryon who had to have recourse to subtlety.  Juggling with his brother's professional
name was a risky business, and he did not mean to get on to dangerous ground.

"He can't tell yet--he was afraid to be certain, tonight--is going to have another go at them
tomorrow.  But----"

"But?"  She leaned forward eagerly.  "There is not much hope?"

There was no mistaking her face and voice.  It was as he had guessed; she did not want Druro
to recover.  Tryon had no further qualms.

"I am not going to give up hope, anyway," he said, with that air of dogged intent which is
often founded on hopelessness.  She gave a little sigh and sat back among her cushions, like
a woman who has taken a refreshing drink.

"Dear Druro, it is very sad for him!" said she complacently, and presently added, "but I shall
always see that he is taken care of."

Something in Tryon shuddered, but outwardly he gave no sign, only looked at her commiseratingly.

"It is that we are thinking of--Guthrie and I.  Are you strong enough physically and well-enough
off financially to undertake such a burden?" She regarded him piercingly, a startled look in
her eyes.  "Doubtless you are a rich women--and, of course, no one could doubt your generosity.
Still, a blind man without means of his own----"

"What?"  She fired the word at him like a pistol-shot.

"He does not know," said Tryon softly.  "We are keeping it dark for some days yet.  The two
shocks together might----"  He paused.

"What--what?" she panted at him, like a runner at the end of his last lap.

"The mine is no good.  They are dropping back into it every penny they ever made, and the reef
has pinched out.  Guthrie told me this tonight on his oath."  The woman gave a long, sighing
breath and lay back painfully in her chair.  But Tryon had a cruel streak in him.  He would
not let her rest.  "He is a ruined man, and may be a blind man, but, thank God, he has you
to lean on!"

"You are mad!" said she, and burst into a harsh laugh.  Tryon's face was full of grave concern
as he rose.

"Shall I send your nurse?"

She pulled herself together sharply.

"Yes, yes; send her--but, before you go, promise me, Mr. Tryon, never to let Druro know you
told me."

("Is it possible that she has so much grace in her?" he pondered.)

"Never!" he promised solemnly.  "He shall find out the greatness of your love for himself."

Like fate, Tryon knew where to rub in the salt.  As he went down the veranda, he heard the
same harsh, cruel laugh ringing out, somewhat like the laugh of a hyena that has missed its prey.

After Sir Charles had gone, Druro sat for a while silent, elbows on the table, thinking.  He
had insisted upon getting up as usual, though they had tried to keep him in bed.  He was not
going to take it lying down, he said.  So now he sat there, alone, except for Toby, who sat
on his knee and, from time to time, put out a little red tongue and gently licked his master's ear.

The nurses who came softly in to congratulate him slipped away softlier still, without speaking.
They could understand what it meant to him to know that he would see the sunshine again, the
rose and primrose dawns, the great purple shadows of night flung across the veld.  What they
did not know was that, in spirit, he was looking his last on the land he loved and seeing down
a vista of long years greyer than the veld on the greyest day of winter.  His lips were firmly
closed, but they wore a bluish tinge as he sat there, for he was tasting life colder than ice
and drier than the dust of the desert between his teeth; and the serpent of remorse and regret
was at his heart.

But not for long.  Presently he rose and squared his shoulders, like a man settling his burden
for a long march, and said quickly to himself some words he had once read, he knew not where.

"'A man shall endure such things as the stern women drew off the spindles for him at his birth.'"

His nurse, who had been waiting in the veranda, hearing his voice, now came in and greeted
him gaily.  "Hooray, Mr. Druro!  Oh, you don't know how glad we all are!  And the whole town
has been here to wish you luck and joy on the news.  But Sir Charles made us drive them all
away.  He says you may see no more than two people before you have lunched and rested, and
he has selected the two himself."

"What cheek!" said Druro.  "And what a nice soft hand you've got, nurse!"

"Be off with you now!" laughed the trim Irish nurse.  "And how can I read you the letter I
have for you with one hand?"

"Try it wid wan eye instid," said he, putting on a brogue to match her own.  She laughed and
escaped, and, later, read the letter, at his wish.

LUNDI DEAR:

I grieve to hurt you, but it is no use pretending.  I can never live in this atrocious Africa,
and I feel it would be cruel to tear you away from a country you love so much.  Besides, after
deep consideration, I find that my darling husband's memory is dearer to me than any living
man can be.  Forgive me--and farewell.

MARICE.

"She left by the morning's train," said the nurse.  "You know she has been well enough to go
for more than a week."

As Lundi did not answer, she went away and left him once more sitting very still.  But with
what a different stillness!  The whole world smelled sweet in his nostrils and spoke of freedom.
His blood chanted a paean of praise and hope to the sun and moon and stars.  An old cry of
the open surged in him.

"Life is sweet, brother!  There is day and night, brother, both sweet things, sun, moon, and
stars, all sweet things; there's likewise a wind on the heath!"

The voice of Tryon broke in on his communings.

"How do you feel, old man?"

"That you, Dick?"  Druro stooped down and felt for Toby once more.  "I feel inclined to run
out into the street and throw my hat into the air, and yell out that I'll fight any one, play
poker against any one, and match my girl and my dog against all comers."

"Indeed!  Then I'll leave you, for you're certainly suffering from a dangerous swagger in the
blood."

Tryon's smile had more than a tinge of sadness in it as he turned to go.  This action of his
was one of those that smell sweet and blossom in the dust, but, as yet, he was too near it
to savour much more than its bitterness.  The path is narrow and the gate is straight for those
who serve faithfully at Love's high altar.  As he went from the room, he looked with tender
eyes at the flower-like girl who had come in with him and stood now with smiling lips and eyes
full of tears looking at the man and the dog.

"You ought to give him a lecture, Gay.  It isn't good for a man to be so puffed up with pride."

"Gay!" said Druro, standing up and letting Toby down with a rush.

"Yes, Lundi.  Dick fetched me.  I had to come and tell you how glad----"

She slid a hand into his, and he drew her into his arms and began to kiss her with those slow,
still-lipped kisses that have all the meaning of life and love behind them.

Toby, having trotted out into the garden, now returned with a large stone which he had culled
as one might gather a bouquet of flowers to present upon a triumphant occasion.

Rosanne Ozanne

PART I

Although the Ozannes kept an hotel in Kimberley, they were not of the class usually associated
with hotel-running in rough mining-towns.  It was merely that, on their arrival in the diamond
fields, they had accepted such work as came to their hands, in a place where people like Cecil
Rhodes and Alfred Beit were washing blue ground for diamonds in their own claims, and other
men, afterward to become world-famous millionaires, were standing behind counters bartering
with natives or serving drinks to miners.

John Ozanne, the honest but not brilliant son of an English clergyman, did not disdain to serve
behind his own bar, either, when his barman was sick, and his wife, in servantless days, turned
to in the hotel kitchen and cooked the meals, though such work was far from her taste and had
not been included in her upbringing as a country doctor's daughter.  In fact, the pair of them
were of the stuff from which good colonials are made, and they deserved the luck that gradually
came to them.

In time, the little hotel grew into a large and flourishing concern. John Ozanne was seen no
more in his bar, and his wife retired into the privacy of her own wing of the building, though
her capable hand was still felt in the hotel management.  It was at this period that the little
twin daughters were born to them, adding a fresh note of sweetness to the harmony that existed
between the devoted and prosperous couple.

They were bonny, healthy children, and very pretty, though not at all alike--little Rosanne
being very dusky, while Rosalie was fair as a lily.  All went well with them until about a
year after their birth, when Rosanne fell ill of a wasting sickness as inexplicable as it was
deadly.  Without rhyme or reason that doctors or mother could lay finger on, the little mite
just grew thinner and more peevish day by day, and visibly faded under their eyes.  Every imaginable
thing was tried without result, and, at last, the doctors grown glum and the mother despairing
were obliged to admit themselves beaten by the mysterious sickness.

Late one afternoon, Mrs. Ozanne, sitting in her bedroom, realized that the end was near.  The
child lay on her lap, a mere bundle of skin and bone, green in colour and scarcely breathing.
The doctor had just left with a sad shake of his head and the conclusive words:

"Only a matter of an hour or so, Mrs. Ozanne.  Try and bear up.  You have the other little
one left."

But what mother's heart could ever comfort its pain for the loss of one loved child by thinking
of those that are left?  Heavy tears fell down Mrs. Ozanne's cheek on to the small, wasted
form.  Her trouble seemed the more poignant in that she had to bear it alone, for her husband
was away on a trip to the old country.  She herself was sick, worn to a shadow from long nursing
and watching.  But even now there was no effort, physical or mental, that she would not have
made to save the little life that had just been condemned.  Her painful brooding was broken
by the sound of a soft and languorous voice.

"Baby very sick, missis?"

The mother looked up and saw, in the doorway, the new cook who had been with them about a week,
and of whom she knew little save that the woman was a Malay and named Rachel Bangat.  There
was nothing strange in her coming to the mistress's room to offer sympathy.  In a South African
household the servants take a vivid interest in all that goes on. "Yes," said the mother, dully.
The woman crept nearer and looked down on the little face with its deathly green shadows.

"Baby going to die, missis," she said.

Mrs. Ozanne bowed her head.  There was silence then.  The mother, blind with tears, thought
the woman had gone as quietly as she came, but presently the voice spoke again, almost caressingly.

"Missis sell baby to me for a farthing; baby not die."

The mother gave a jump, then dashed the tears from her eyes and stared at the speaker.  In
the dusky shadows of the doorway the woman, in her white turban and black-and-gold shawl, seemed
suddenly to have assumed a fateful air.  Yet she was an ordinary enough looking Malay, of stout,
even course, build, with a broad, high cheek-boned face that wore the grave expression of her
race.  It was only her dark eyes, full of a sinister melancholy, that differed from any eyes
Mrs. Ozanne had ever seen, making her shiver and clutch the baby to her breast.

"Go away out of here!" she said violently, and the woman went, without a word.  But within
half an hour the languorous voice was whispering once more from the shadow of the doorway.

"Missis sell baby to me for a farthing; baby get well."

The mother, crouching over the baby, straining her ears for its faltering heart-beats, had
no words.  In a sort of numb terror she waved the woman off.  It was no more than fifteen minutes
later that the Malay came again; yet it seemed to Mrs. Ozanne that she waited hours with cracking
ear-drums to hear once more the terms of the strange bargain.  This time, the words differed
slightly.

"Missis sell baby to me for two years; baby belong all to me; missis no touch, no speak." 
In the dark palm she proffered lay a farthing. "Take it quick, missis; baby dying."

Sophia Ozanne cast one anguished glance at the face of her child, then gave it up, clutched
the farthing and fell fainting to the floor.

An hour later, other servants came to relate that the baby was still alive and its breathing
more regular.  In another hour, they reported it sleeping peacefully.  The heart-wrung mother,
still weak and quivering from her collapse, crept through the hotel and came faltering to the
kitchen threshold, but dared not enter.  Near the fire, on a rough bed formed of two chairs
and a folded blanket, the child lay sleeping.  Even from the door she could see that its colour
was better and the green shadows gone.  The atmosphere of the kitchen was gently warm.  Rachel
Bangat, with her back to the door, was busy at the table cutting up vegetables.  Without turning
round, she softly addressed the mother.

"You keep away from here.  If you not remember baby my baby for two years, something happen!"

That was all.  But under the languor of the voice lay a dagger-like menace that struck to the
mother's heart.

"Oh, I'll keep the bargain," she whispered fervently.  "Only--be kind to my child, won't you?"

"Malays always kind to children," said Rachel Bangat impassively, and continued peeling vegetables.

It was true.  All Malay women have a passion for children, and consider themselves afflicted
if they have never borne a child.  Illegitimate and unwanted babies will always find a home
open to them in the Malay quarter of any South African town.  The mother, comforted in some
sort by the knowledge, stole away--and kept away.

