WHAT IS AND WHAT MIGHT BE

A STUDY OF EDUCATION IN GENERAL AND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION IN PARTICULAR

BY

EDMOND HOLMES

AUTHOR OF "THE CREED OF CHRIST," "THE CREED OF BUDDHA," "THE SILENCE OF LOVE," "THE TRIUMPH
OF LOVE," ETC.

LONDON CONSTABLE & COMPANY 1912

  First published, May 1911.
  Second impression, July 1911.
  Third impression, September 1911.
  Fourth impression, November 1911.
  Fifth impression, January 1912.
  Sixth impression, October 1912.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ |Transcriber's note:
Obvious printer errors have been corrected. All   | |other inconstancies in spelling or punctuation
are as in the original.| +----------------------------------------------------------------------+

PREFACE

My aim, in writing this book, is to show that the externalism of the West, the prevalent tendency
to pay undue regard to outward and visible "results" and to neglect what is inward and vital,
is the source of most of the defects that vitiate Education in this country, and therefore
that the only remedy for those defects is the drastic one of changing our standard of reality
and our conception of the meaning and value of life. My reason for making a special study of
that branch of education which is known as "Elementary," is that I happen to have a more intimate
knowledge of it than of any other branch, the inside of an elementary school being so familiar
to me that I can in some degree bring the eye of experience to bear upon the problems that
confront its teachers. I do not for a moment imagine that the elementary school teacher is
more deeply tainted than his fellows with the virus of "Occidentalism." Nor do I think that
the defects of his schools are graver than those of other educational institutions. In my judgment
they are less grave because, though perhaps more glaring, they have not had time to become
so deeply rooted, and are therefore, one may surmise, less difficult to eradicate. Today the old Moorish capital of that kingdom is in their mass but a large poblachon - ugly sad,
almost solitary and very noticeable decline from his past. Its walls are in ruins (of which
there is no reason to complain) and in the midst of the rubble grow orange and pomegranate
trees to keep the poetic tradition of the Eastern world that lies there become bones and dust.
HOWEVER, is conserved in all aspect of the city Arab air, both by the structure of the streets
and all the houses, for the forms of the most remarkable monuments, the nature of manufacturing
and farming, especially the physiognomy of the race.

Cordoba is par excellence a bygone city - a sanctuary of multiple memories, but Eastern mainly. Except
for the railroad station, which makes the morrow, all encourages others to stop wandering spirit
in the region of the past. Yes, up to the high tower overlooking the great courtyard of the mosque-cathedral,
contemplate the city and its fields neighbors, the show is beautiful but sad. Each object
is an evocation. The walls in many from Roman times, do remember that Cordova was the homeland
of the two Senecas and Lucan, - as it was many centuries after Góngora (which has served as a model
for so many scribes, which not writers), de Cespedes, Zambrano and other remarkable men. Looking
at the cathedral, is recalled to its founder Abderraman, like noticing the famous bridge of
the Guadalquivir VIII century work. And if you tend your eyes on the multitude of churches and convents
populate the city and over the dark arcades of the Plaza-Mayor, recognizing the Spanish genius
has presided over the destinies of the country since the time of the reconquest in the thirteenth
century. Whenever something seal four successive civilizations more or less profoundly modified
social physiognomy. And yet, the predominant type is the more useful, more social, more industrial:
Arabic, - because no domination was so rich and so well understood necessities of life such
as Moorish. Even in the dominant vegetation of this type Córdoba. Is there some palm trees that
are truly ancient monuments. One of them passes have been planted by Mansur. Centuries have passed
over their floating plumes, and these to balance even whisper the legends of Eastern time.

Strange
city to the viewer on his first trip the terms of architecture and Moorish strategy!
 By some of my readers this statement will be
regarded as a truism; by others as a challenge; by others, again, when they have realised its
inner meaning, as a "wicked heresy." I will begin by assuming that it is a truism, and will
then try to prove that it is true.

The function of education is to foster growth. The end which the teacher should set before
himself is the development of the latent powers of his pupils, the unfolding of their latent
life. If growth is to be fostered, two things must be liberally provided,--nourishment and
exercise. On the need for nourishment I need not insist. The need for exercise is perhaps less
obvious, but is certainly not less urgent. We make our limbs, our organs, our senses, our faculties
grow by exercising them. When they have reached their maximum of development we maintain them
at that level by exercising them. When their capacity for growth is unlimited, as in the case
of our mental and spiritual faculties, the need for exercise is still more urgent. To neglect
to exercise a given limb, or organ, or sense, or faculty, would result in its becoming weak,
flabby, and in the last resort useless. In childhood, when the stress of Nature's expansive
forces is strongest, the neglect of exercise will, for obvious reasons, have most serious consequences.
If a healthy child were kept in bed during the second and third years of his life, the damage
done to his whole body would be incalculable.

These are glaring truisms. Let me perpetrate one more,--one which is perhaps the most glaring
of all. The process of growing must be done by the growing organism, by the child, let us say,
and by no one else. The child himself must take in and assimilate the nourishment that is provided
for him. The child himself must exercise his organs and faculties. The one thing which no one
may ever delegate to another is the business of growing. To watch another person eating will
not nourish one's own body. To watch another person using his limbs will not strengthen one's
own. The forces that make for the child's growth come from within himself; and it is for him,
and him alone, to feed them, use them, evolve them.

All this is--

  "As true as truth's simplicity,
  And simpler than the infancy of truth."

But it sometimes happens that what is most palpable is least perceptible; and perhaps it is
because the truth of what I say is self-evident and indisputable, that in many Elementary Schools
in this country the education given seems to be based on the assumption that my "truisms" are
absolutely false. In such schools the one end and aim of the teacher is to do everything for
the child;--to feed him with semi-digested food; to hold him by the hand, or rather by both
shoulders, when he tries to walk or run; to keep him under close and constant supervision;
to tell him in precise detail what he is to think, to feel, to say, to wish, to do; to show
him in precise detail how he is to do whatever may have to be done; to lay thin veneers of
information on the surface of his mind; never to allow him a minute for independent study;
never to trust him with a handbook, a note-book, or a sketch-book; in fine, to do all that
lies in his power to prevent the child from doing anything whatever for himself. The result
is that the various vital faculties which education might be supposed to train become irretrievably
starved and stunted in the over-educated school child; till at last, when the time comes for
him to leave the school in which he has been so sedulously cared for, he is too often thrown
out upon the world, helpless, listless, resourceless, without a single interest, without a
single purpose in life.

The contrast between elementary education as it too often is, and as it ought to be if the
truth of my "truisms" were widely accepted, is so startling that in my desire to account for
it I have had recourse to a paradox. "Trop de vérité," says Pascal, "nous étonne: les premiers
principes ont trop d'évidence pour nous." I have suggested that the inability of so many teachers
to live up to the spirit, or even to the letter, of my primary "truism," may be due to its
having too much evidence for them, to their being blinded by the naked light of its truth.

But there may be another explanation of the singular fact that a theory of education to which
the teacher would assent without hesitation if it were submitted to his consciousness, counts
for nothing in the daily routine of his work. Failure to carry an accepted principle into practice
is sometimes due to the fact that the principle has not really been accepted; that its inner
meaning has not been apprehended; that assent has been given to a formula rather than a truth.
The cause of the failure may indeed lie deeper than this. It may be that the nominal adherents
of the principle are in secret revolt against the vital truth that is at the heart of it; that
they repudiate it in practice because they have already repudiated it in the inner recesses
of their thought. "This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with
their lips; but their heart is far from me." Tell the teacher that the function of education
is to foster growth; that therefore it is his business to develop the latent faculties of his
pupils; and that therefore (since growth presupposes exercise) he must allow his pupils to
do as much as possible by and for themselves,--place these propositions before him, and the
chances are that he will say "Amen" to them. But that lip assent will count for nothing. One's
life is governed by instinct rather than logic. To give a lip assent to the logical inferences
from an accepted principle is one thing. To give a real assent to the essential truth that
underlies and animates the principle is another. The way in which the teacher too often conducts
his school leads one to infer that the intuitive, instinctive side of him--the side that is
nearest to practice--has somehow or other held intercourse with the inner meaning of that "truism"
which he repeats so glibly, and has rejected it as antagonistic to the traditional assumptions
on which he bases his life. Or perhaps this work of subconscious criticism and rejection has
been and is being done for him, either by the spirit of the age to which he belongs or by the
genius of the land in which he lives.

Why is the teacher so ready to do everything (or nearly everything) for the children whom he
professes to educate? One obvious answer to this question is that for a third of a century
(1862-1895) the "Education Department" did everything (or nearly everything) for him. For a
third of a century "My Lords" required their inspectors to examine every child in every elementary
school in England on a syllabus which was binding on all schools alike. In doing this, they
put a bit into the mouth of the teacher and drove him, at their pleasure, in this direction
and that. And what they did to him they compelled him to do to the child.

So far as the action of the "Education Department" was concerned, this policy was abandoned--in
large measure, if not wholly--in 1895; but its consequences are with us still. What conception
of the meaning and purpose of education could have induced "My Lords" to adopt such a policy,
and, having adopted it, to adhere to it for more than thirty years? Had one asked "My Lords"
at any time during those thirty years what they regarded as the true function of education,
and had one suggested to them (as they had probably never turned their minds to the question)
that the function of education was to foster the growth of the child, they might possibly have
given an indolent assent to that proposition. But their educational policy must have been dictated
by some widely different conception. They must have believed that the mental progress of the
child--the only aspect of progress which concerned educationalists in those days--would best
be tested by a formal examination on a prescribed syllabus, and would best be secured by preparation
for such a test; and they must have accepted, perhaps without the consent of their consciousness,
whatever theory of education may be implicit in that belief.

In acting as they did, "My Lords" fell into line with the Universities, the Public Schools,
the Preparatory Schools, the Civil Service Commissioners, the Professional Societies, and (to
make a general statement) with all the "Boards" and "Bodies" that controlled, directly or indirectly,
the education of the youth of England. We must, therefore, widen the scope of our inquiry,
and carry our search for cause a step farther back. How did the belief that a formal examination
is a worthy end for teacher and child to aim at, and an adequate test of success in teaching
and in learning, come to establish itself in this country? And not in this country only, but
in the whole Western world? In every Western country that is progressive and "up to date,"
and in every Western country in exact proportion as it is progressive and "up to date," the
examination system controls education, and in doing so arrests the self-development of the
child, and therefore strangles his inward growth.

What is the explanation of this significant fact? In my attempt to account for the failure
of elementary education in England to foster the growth of the educated child, I have travelled
far. But I must travel farther yet. The Western belief in the efficacy of examinations is a
symptom of a widespread and deep-seated tendency,--the tendency to judge according to the appearance
of things, to attach supreme importance to visible "results," to measure inward worth by outward
standards, to estimate progress in terms of what the "world" reveres as "success." It is the
Western standard of values, the Western way of looking at things, which is in question, and
which I must now attempt to determine.

That I should have to undertake this task is a proof of the complexity of education, of the
bewildering tanglement of its root-system, of the depths to which some of its roots descend
into the subsoil of human-life. The defect in our system of education which I am trying to
diagnose is one which the "business man," who may have had reason to complain of the output
of our elementary schools, will probably account for in one sentence and propound a remedy
for in another. But I, who know enough about education to realise how little is or can be known
about it, find that if I am to understand why so many schools turn out helpless and resourceless
children, I must go back to the first principles of modern civilisation, or in other words
to the cardinal axioms of the philosophy of the West.

This does not mean that I must make a systematic study of Western metaphysics. Professional
thinkers abound in the West; but the rank and file of the people pay little heed to them. It
is true that they take themselves very seriously; but so does every clique of experts and connoisseurs.
The indirect influence of their theories has at times been considerable; but their direct influence
on human thought is, and has always been, very slight. For the plain average man, who cannot
rid himself of the suspicion that the professional thinker is a professional word-juggler,
has a philosophy of his own which was formulated for him by an unphilosophical people, and
which, though it is now beginning to fail him, was once sufficient for all his needs.

At the present moment there are two schools of popular thought in the West. For many centuries
there was only one. For many centuries men were content to believe that the outward and visible
world--the world of their normal experience--was the all of Nature. But they were not content
to believe that it was the "all of Being." The latter conception would have said "No" to certain
desires of the heart which refuse to be negatived,--desires which are as large and lofty as
they are pure and deep: and in order to provide a refuge for these, men added to their belief
in a natural world which was bounded by the horizon of experience (as they understood the word),
the complementary belief in a world which transcended the limits of experience, and in which
the dreams and hopes for which Nature could make no provision might somehow or other be realised
and fulfilled. With the development of physical science, the conception of the Supernatural
has become discredited, and a materialistic monism has begun to dispute the supremacy of that
dualistic philosophy which had reigned without a rival for many hundreds of years. But antagonistic
as these philosophies are to one another, they have one conception in common. The popular belief
that the world of man's normal experience is the Alpha and Omega of Nature, is the very platform
on which their controversies are carried on. Were any one to suggest to them that this belief
was without foundation, that there was room and to spare in Nature for the "supernatural" as
well as for the normal, that the supernatural world (as it had long been miscalled) was nothing
more nor less than "la continuation occulte de la Nature infinie,"--they would at once unite
their forces against him, and assail him with an even bitterer hatred than that which animates
them in their own intestine strife.

The dualistic philosophy which satisfied the needs of the West for some fifteen centuries was
systematised and formulated for it, in the language of myth and poetry, by an Eastern people.
The acceptance of official Christianity by the Graeco-Roman world was the result of many causes,
two of which stand out as central and supreme. The first of these was the personal magnetism
of Christ, in and through which men came in contact with, and responded to, the attractive
forces of those moral and spiritual ideas which Christ set before his followers. The second
was the readiness of the Western mind to accept the philosophy of Israel,--a philosophy with
the master principles of which it had long been subconsciously familiar, and for the clear
and convincing presentation of which it had long been waiting. Of the personal magnetism of
Christ and the part that it has played in the life of Christendom, I need not now speak. My
present concern is to show how the philosophy of Israel--accepted nominally for Christ's sake,
but really for its own--has influenced the educational policy of the West.

In the Old Testament the Western mind found itself face to face with the philosophical theories--theories
about the world and its origin, about Man and his destiny, about conduct and its consequences--to
which its own mythologies had given inadequate expression, but which the poetical genius of
a practical people was able to formulate to the satisfaction of a practical world. In the philosophy
of Israel "Nature" was conceived of, not as animated by an indwelling life or soul, but as
the handiwork of an omnipotent God. In six days--so runs the story--"God created the heavens
and the earth." Whether by the word which we translate as "days" were meant terrestrial days
or cosmic ages matters nothing, for in either case the broad fact remains that according to
the Biblical narrative the work of creation occupied a definite period of time, and that on
a certain day in the remote past the Creator rested from his labours, surveyed his handiwork,
and pronounced it to be very good.

His next step was to stand aside from the world that he had made, leave it to its own devices
and see how it would behave itself in the person of its lord and his viceroy,--Man. That the
Creator should place Creation on its trial and that it should speedily misbehave itself, may
be said to have been preordained. The idea of a Creator postulates the further idea of a Fall.
The finished work of an omnipotent Creator is presumably good,--good in this sense, if in no
other, that its actualities must needs determine the creature's ideals and standards of good.
But the world, as Man knows it, seems to be deeply tainted with evil. How is this anomaly to
be accounted for? The story of the Fall is the answer to this question. Whether modern theology
regards the story of the Fall as literally or only as symbolically true, I cannot say for certain.
The question is of minor importance. What is of supreme importance is that Christian theology
accepts and has always accepted the consequences of the idea of the Fall, and that in formulating
those consequences it has provided the popular thought of the West with conceptions by which
its whole outlook on life has been, and is still, determined and controlled. It was a Magdalene, an unhappy sorry
... What hurts him most, son, is Having A deceived. You should not treat it bad, you must not
ensañarte with it because their pain is great ... believes that going to kill ... I told you're
not a Otelo and you do not give as strong. He has promised to go home and give you rewarding
loyal. Knows that the poor can no longer be your wife, but the contempt yours the crazy ... It
is an unfortunate, that in the midst of yet retains some modesty ...».

Augustine took two turns on itself, a sign of horrible despair, as is the intoxication. He left
without another word and went into his house. Arnaiz and were Mompous that night to play pool,
and during the game affected the Indian peace of mind.

So it was more talkative than usual.

The next day, Tuesday, a day of rain and gloom, Augustine spent the
morning walking around in his office.

Expected a visit of interest no doubt, but he received was to Rosalia very nice weekend, well renovated,
very fresh and fantastic as well as when he went to theater.

"You're not good - he said with affectionate candor -. I understand, because these things are
impressive, I think you serenarte and try to give everything to oblivion ... A man like you ...!
Yes, you will find women in their thousands ... and a thousand times more beautiful, a thousand
times more interesting ... So what? Have you been?

I presume not, because I sent word to his house and is not there and nobody knows his whereabouts.
Te I swear that's a shame because ... Poor thing! If after all not
bad background.

Among these unfortunate, there are excellent natural and even hints of dignity. What is waiting
appearances no one will win this. "

As he did not answer anything, he seemed more attentive to the flowers of the carpet to said her cousin,
this was to give another address to his affection.

"I repeat that you are not good. You verdigris color ... To see the
pulse?

Burning ... Rest son, rest is good for you. Not receive one, do not talk, do not write. Lie
on the couch and wrap the rug.

I'll take care, for your health as well I can leave all my obligations.

I do drink, I'll be here all day, and if you get really bad, I'll stay all night also. "

Augustine rejected the idea of ​​illness. Between one and another pause, slid Rosalia tips warnings
and full of sweetness and friendship ... "Do not take it so hard
... If you had consulted time with me ... It is best to go to bed
... 're cold.

"

Later, much later, Augustine, playing without reservation as spontaneous and natural in his soul
existed, let's say these solemn words:

"That woman has me stuck in the heart, and I can not get started."

Upon hearing this, Rosalie took his abode in cashmere and body.

It was hot. To comfort his cousin threw strings of sentences, full of loving and thoughtful
expressions. Amid of them came up Doña Marcelina Polo, the only person who could provide damning
news the fact, as having written testimony.

"Where do you live that lady?" - Told Knight with momentum -. Right now I go there.

- It's too late. By God, do not get well. You look like a character in a novel. That lady and
living with her to bed when the chickens. Tomorrow you can go but not early, because since the
dawn of the three to leave the church. It is best if you send a message to Philip to set your time.

Entered
D. Francisco, who came from their walk.

"What ?...».

- I tell him to get into bed and not want to listen to me.

- Bet that's it slander? - Thiers said kindly.

Augustine begged them to stay for lunch, which they gladly accepted. Centeno was Costanilla
to tell Prudence (aka Calamity) to give food to the children, because parents would not return
home until late.

XXXVI

Wednesday! ... A worthy successor to the previous day, was all damp and gloom, the sky crying,
the land turned into dirty lake and thick. You'd think that a large mass of gray chocolate had spilled
on the streets. The umbrella flocks were moving along the sidewalks, cediéndose step with difficulty and
covering poor people. Spouts jets playing drum beats on them, and it lunged at each other,
they pecked, scratched.

Hats could be seen like springs, and faces like those of newts and nymphs Marble played the
wettest of roles in public sources.

Augustine looked at this behind the glass of the balcony of his room, and the sound of that sadness
time itself was sung without music this elegy:

"Why did not you
stay in Brownsville, gross?

Who bade thee meddle in civilization? And you see ... to the first change since you've been cheated.
You all play as a boy or a savage. When distrust, you're wrong. When you think you are wrong
too. This world is not for you. Your world is the Rio Grande del Norte and the Sierra Madre;
your company the Indian mobs of adventurers brave and ferocious socialize
your revolver, your ideal the money.

Who do you get into these wanderings? Some of fas nefas and others all laugh at you and bamboozle
you and exploit you. "

- Lord - Felipe said entering the room -. Doña Marcelina is in the church. Another lady who lives
with her, and whom I know, I am told that you can go to twelve.

D. Francisco soon appeared with a smiling face and wet Carriker.

His wife was busy with dance clothing, and could not come until after
noon.

Spoke after so much disturbed the Indian, and Thiers brought out
as a mitigating and conciliatory he suggested his goodness.

It was all slander, and Augustine had better not metiese more inquiries. Much was saddened that
his cousin told him: "One of two things: either I go back to Brownsville, or me montera put the world. "

They
lunched together, and before lunch concluded, Bringas rose from the table impatient eagerness. He
had an idea, and hastened to perform it, confident in the safety of success. He left hurriedly
to go where we know.

While Rosalie was not claimed that Amparito at home, he might be
back now.

Maybe the neighbors knew the whereabouts of the two sisters.

Forward, noble heart, and fear not.

Knight came later, and by the nuns, the Postigo, Hita Street, the alley Dog, etc ... went to
the streets of the Star.

It is easy to assume that was a humorous thousand demons and did not know to choose between
doubt and certainty of his misfortune.

That such Doña Marcelina, what breed of bird would be?

This is thought to climb the ladder of the house that, older than speak evil. Called, and a maid
told the lady had not come yet, but that does not take even five minutes. We went to the room, and when
a lady was waiting there presentósele very singular appearance, white, fine, clean and airy,
an elderly woman who looked like a kitten with two emeralds for eyes, and walked with feet of
wool without the steps you feel.

"Sir - you said that looking at him sweetly human relic - are you
by chance del Toboso?

".

- No, ma'am - he said - and I am not of Toboso of La Mancha.

- Ah, excuse me ...

And slipped away, looking askance at the light
spots of mud that the visitor had left on the mat.

Augustine noticed the room, which contained about seven comfortably and other furniture anticuadísimos,
but very well preserved, four crucifixes, two children and work of
Jesus four dozen films saints, with branches of evergreens, bows and
ribbons.

There soon came a semblance of mahogany carving behind a black veil.

"Are you Mr. Knight?".

- At your service ... I wanted ...

Doña Marcelina Augustine was passed immediately to a cabinet. After seeing the room seemed
that there was no more comfortable in the world. However, in that cabinet had three. A brazier
was very hot fire to the abandoned piece. The visitor and sat on Pole armchairs.

"Did you see what day?" - Said the lady, lifting her veil and publishing the bas-relief of
your face, Christian had not understood it.

- Yes, ma'am, very bad day ... Then I come to beg you to kindly give me news ...

- I know, I know - replied sternly Polo -. Can I ask you reports, background that unhappy? If
you will permit me, I will keep the greatest secrecy, it is not in
my early carry this story and deal with actions of others.

I, though I be wrong to say it, no I usually hurt even my worst enemies ... It is no praise, but
many who I have hated me full of benefits ...

- In the present case - Caballero said eagerly - you can make an exception for me, telling me
...

- High there - the austere lady interrupted.

I do not count anything, I know nothing, I have not seen nothing, absolutely nothing. What
someone comes and tells me that Amparo is a saint?

I quiet. What you come and tell me that he wants to marry her? I
quiet.

Shut up and shut up is my subject.

Today I got to God, and if he had enough strength to keep to my guns, this just give to me.

- But sir, for the love of God - Augustine said, to the fullest confession -. The truth is before
everything.

- Just some truths are not for those ... Do not ask me anything ...
my mouth is a snap ... Only I tell you, and this not because you might
be interested, but my own satisfaction, that my brother was saved,
my brother is already on its way to Marseille where released within
three days for the Philippines, my brother has a bad back, and there
in those wild lands of my brother will come to herself.

Do you know where is the island of Zamboanga?

Because I have told you, it also comes Carib land. For there, in that blissful Zamboanga my brother
landed within two months, and there will the opportunity to christen heretics and make great
achievements.

This is not to say that I absolutely trust in your salvation, since the goat as its spots, the vicious
strip ever ... to the shooting. Oh, what efforts we had to make last minute! Had you seen ...! What
hombrazo! At the station told us that there will be a cassock Nebuchadnezzar. That is what you
want as long as not return to their old ways, or appear more here ... And do not think you ...
I have a scare ...! It I figure that of Barcelona or Marseilles we returned to Madrid and I
go through the door at least we wait ... You do not know him well.

And you're supposed to lie the natural evil; as if they had not haunted, if they had not sucked
the brains, another rooster will sing.

In a state of annoyance and irritation indescribable, Knight had to restrain not make a blunder.
The truth, he felt like giving him a couple of slaps.

"Ah, - said the timber - do you know that she is not dead Celedonia poor? We took the hospital
the day after the scandal ... And even tell you another thing, I did not see nothing, I know
nothing. "

- Madam, I do not know who Caledonia, nor do I care. Come to mine. I know, I know you has two
letters ...

His irritation led him to dispense with all courtesy and sensitivity. Raised the question in rude
terms, saying:

"I need you to give me these two letters. I buy them, you hear it well, buy them. You say. "

- Oh, I do not remember that - Marcelina said, addressing one of the
comfortable.

- Shopping - Agustín repeated, tasting the bitterness
of his curiosity satisfied.

The Polo stirred a time when the top drawer. Her back was to Knight, a fairly distance. Augustine
felt rustling of papers. After a pause, the voice of Marcelina and said:

"For you must know that there's nothing here, nothing of what you want ... Touch you to another
door, here does not commit the reputation of any person, good or bad. If any rengloncillo appears
in these caches, I will follow the advice of Father Nones, who told me: 'O deliver its owner or
the flames, 'and I ...».

He turned in front of Knight with his hands behind his back.

"Nothing, sir, nothing. I keep to my guns.

I do not harm anyone or my major enemies. Before I die to stop sending me accomplish what D.
Juan Manuel, and as I have not to see the interest, and I have no
desire to do so, you attend ...».

With quick movement uncovered the brazier and threw it in his hand what he had. Knight ran to
save from the fire that threw that devilish female, but came too late. Embers were alive,
and the curious saw nothing but a paper twisted and curled thin lifting call ... Nothing but a
name he read was the signing and said: Torment. With the final or linking a garabatito ... Yes,
it was his garabatito, his person autographed in that trait looked like a curly hair.

Angry and unable to save the forms imposed upon him a good education, because he was man belonging
to nature more than the Company, which stood as something borrowed, faced the wooden effigy,
and said in the most brutal.

"I was annoyed you ... Left you with God or the Devil, who is now
in the body, and I rejoice that soon burst ...».

Escaped left, furious ... Took the direction of his house, but had
not gone twenty yards when had an inspiration, a true celestial lightning
entered his mind.

The street of Beatas was very close ... Secret instinct told him
that there could be burning disease of your questions better remedy
than elsewhere.

"Who knows - he thought his spirit gorge from confusion to another - when all I cheat and
have fun with me, she can be it tells me the truth ... Wow, that
if we leave now that he is innocent ... But where is he?, Why is he
hiding?

... I will hide it so you will not see ... Damn my blindness, my
inexperience in the world!

... Rosalia deceiving me, deceiving me and all my friends play with
this poor man, who understands riddles ... Who can tell me the truth?

... What voice hear the ringing in my soul?, "which says: kill it, or that says forgive her? Gross,
unlucky wild, you should not be out of your forests, Jurate says
yes you the truth, forgive ... Yes, the spare ... I feel like to forgive
her, Mrs. Company ... If he is guilty and is sorry, forgive her, Mrs.
Company as hell, and I pass to you by the nose.

"

"Miss Amparo - told the concierge - has gone half an hour ago with
a gentleman ...».

- With a gentleman?

- Yes, glasses ... tiny, with
a color of dried figs Carriker.

- Ah, my cousin ... Abur ...

It
seems that the devil did.

I had never walked the streets in such a hurry, and never had so
many embarrassments.

The umbrella is latching every moment with people coming in the opposite direction. You believe
that they wanted to bite and throw each other the The flooded water. Then, he kept finding
people known to each moment I stopped to ask about his health and say, "Have you seen how long?".
Reached think that had gathered on his way to mortify. And for this, Lord, had it was a commitment
that limited the number of your friends!

'D. Augustine, weather!

Tomorrow is new moon and may change "- said in the alley Dog a dependent
of Trujillo.

- Abur, Abur ...

Finally got home ... By opening the
door, said to Philip:

"Miss Amparo awaits you ...».

And he, hearing this, shook with shock and grief, curiosity and fear
of satisfying ... What would she face?, What would you say?

"And my cousin Bringas, is too?".
- No, sir, the lady came alone.

Knight went through the rooms. The
first was not in the second either. What surprised him most was hearing
the tune of the birds. But at the moment to put his foot in the second
cabinet, the music suddenly stopped. Had run the string. Silence suspended
following the gig was so respectful and mournful, that Augustine was
afraid ... Well there was not. He saw a glass on the table, a bottle.
Then our illustrious friend up with some trepidation the curtain of
the bedroom and saw a foot ... Frightened stopped looking better,
because the balcony of the bedroom was closed and there was very little
light ... He saw a black skirt ... hanging arm, hand touching the
ground ... a pink ear ... a scarf covering face ... He approached
the horrible suspicion that there were no signs of life that body;
so still was ... Looked closely ... Touched, called ... Yes, living
... breathing work as if suffering from a strong grief. The eyes were
closed, dry ...

Leaving the cabinet again, Knight saw the recipe
... He read briefly ran out ... Felipe came to meet in the classroom
...

"To call a doctor - said the master -. Say, Miss came alone?,
Did you take ...?». dresses

- A medicine, yes sir. He sent me to
bring it to the pharmacy.

- You! ... Doomed! - Augustine said attacking
the servant with such fury, that thought reached the end of his days.

-
Mr Philip ...-- stammered crying - I did the medicine ...

- What?
... dog ... murderer.

- Do not worry ... The pharmacist told me it
was poison, and then I ... Oh, do not hit me! ... I came home, took
an empty bottle, filled it with tap water ... and burst water ...

-
What banished, executioner?

- It took a little tincture of guaiac
... brought the Doña Marta when I ached molars.

- Call Dona Marta
... Not notify the doctor yet.

Knight returned to the cabinet. On
the table was also a letter. Breaking the envelope, read these crooked
letters written in pencil: All true. I do not deserve forgiveness,
but pity. Then I had the name of Amparo, and after the o, garabatito
... Infamous garabatito! ... She ran to her, because he felt moan
... The wild-eyed suicide Miron and began saying a word, very inconsistent
and without any sense.

"This is madness ... attack to the head "-
said Dona Marta, who had come hurrying ...

- To call a doctor, no,
no, not to call. Wait, wait ...

He returned to the cabinet. Or the
man was insane or lacked very little.

- Dona Marta.

- Lord ...

-
What do we do?

- This is serious. He says it is nonsense and an ember
in the head ...

- Take her home ... take her home immediately, at
his house - pulling Knight said of the confusion a clear purpose -.
Take charge you, Dona Marta, that goes well, and leave you with it.

Pharisaism is at once the logical consummation and the reductio ad absurdum of legalism. It
is to the genius of Israel that we owe that practical interpretation of the fundamental principle
of supernaturalism, which was embodied in the doctrine of salvation through obedience to the
letter of a Law. And it is to the genius of Israel that we owe that rigorously logical interpretation
of the axiomata media of legalism, which issued in due season in Pharisaism. The world owes
much to the courage and sincerity of Israel,--to his unique force of character, to his fanatical
earnestness, to his relentless tenacity of purpose. In particular, it owes a debt which it
can never liquidate to what was at once the cause and the result of his over-seriousness,--to
his lack of any sense of humour,--a negative quality which allowed his practical logic to run
its course without let or hindrance, and prevented the "brakes" of common-sense from acting
when he found himself, in his very zeal for the Law, descending an inclined plane into an unfathomable
abyss of turpitude and folly. The man (or people) who is able, of his own experience, to tell
the rest of mankind what a given scheme of life really means and is really worth, owing to
his having offered himself as the corpus vile for the required experiment, is one of the greatest
benefactors of the human race. Had Israel been less sincere or less courageous, we might never
have known what deadly fallacies lurk in the seemingly harmless dualism of popular thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

But the West, it will be said, is Christian, not Jewish. Is it Christian? If the word "Christian"
connotes acceptance of the teaching as well as devotion to the person of Christ, it is scarcely
applicable either to the official or to the popular religion of the West. For Christ, the stern
denouncer of the Pharisees, was the whole-hearted enemy of legalism; and the legal conception
of salvation through mechanical obedience still dominates the religion and life of Christendom.

The Jewish Law tried to cover, and tended more and more to cover, the whole of human life.
It is true that it controlled the details rather than the totality of life; but the reason
why it dealt with life, detail by detail, was that its exponents, owing to their spiritual
purblindness, were unable to see the wood for the trees. In Christendom, while the doctrine
of salvation through mechanical obedience was retained, the authority of a Church was substituted
for that of a Code of Law. The growth of the idea of Humanity, as opposed to that of mere nationality,
made this necessary. As the former idea began to compete with the latter, the need for a divinely-commissioned
society which should declare the will and communicate the grace of God, not to one nation only
but to all men who were willing to hearken and obey,--and whose action, as a channel of intercourse
between God and Man, should be continuous rather than spasmodic,--began to make itself felt.
A Code of Law might conceivably suffice to regulate the life of one small nation; but when
we consider under what varying conditions of climate, occupation, custom, tradition, and so
forth, the general life of Humanity is carried on, we see clearly that no one Code can even
begin to suffice for the needs of the whole human race. Hence, and for other reasons which
we need not now consider, the West, in accepting the philosophy of Israel, translated its master
idea of salvation through mechanical obedience into the notation of ecclesiastical, as distinguished
from legal, control.

That obedience to a supernaturally-commissioned Church, or rather to the One supernaturally-commissioned
Church, is the first and last duty of Man, is the fundamental assumption on which the stately
fabric of Catholic Christianity has been reared. In various ways the Church has striven to
exact implicit obedience from her children. Through the medium of the Confessional she has
secured some measure of control over their morals. By regulating the worship of God--both public
and private--she has been able to rule off a sphere of human conduct in which her own authority
is necessarily paramount. By supplying the faithful with rations of "theological information"
(to quote the apt phrase of a pillar of orthodoxy), and requiring them to accept these on her
authority as indisputably true, she has succeeded in imposing her yoke on thought as well as
on conduct. By claiming to control the outflow of Divine grace, through the channels of the
Sacraments, she has been able to threaten the rebellious with the dread penalty of being cut
off from intercourse with God. And by telling men, with stern insistence, that the choice between
obedience and disobedience to herself is the choice between eternal happiness and eternal misery,
she has sought to extend her dominion beyond the limits of time and to raise to an infinite
power her supremacy over the souls of men.

But just because the life of collective Humanity is large, complex, and full of change and
variety, the Church which aspires to be universal, however strong may be her desire to superintend
all the details of human thought and conduct, and however ready she may be to adapt herself
to local and temporal variations, must needs allow whole aspects and whole spheres of human
life to escape from her control. The history of Christendom is the history of the gradual emancipation
of the Western world from the despotism of the Church. The various activities of the human
spirit--art, science, literature, law, statecraft, and the rest--have, one and all, freed themselves
by slow degrees from ecclesiastical control, till little or nothing has been left for the Church
to regulate but her own rites and ceremonies, the morals (in a narrow and ever-narrowing sense
of the word), and the faith (in the theological sense of the word), of the faithful.

With the emancipation of Man's higher activities from ecclesiastical control, the distinction
between the religious and the secular life has gradually established itself. That this should
happen was inevitable. Mechanical obedience being of the essence of supernatural religion,
the secularising of human life became absolutely necessary if any vital progress was to be
made. The Church patronised art, music, and the drama so far as they served her purposes. When
they outgrew those purposes, in response to the expansive forces of human nature, she treated
them as secular and let them go their several ways. In the interests of theology she tried
to keep physical science in leading-strings; but when, after a bitter struggle, science broke
loose from her control, she treated it too as secular and let it go its way.

Let us see what this distinction involves. As salvation is to be achieved by obedience to the
Church and in no other way, it follows that in all those spheres of life which are outside
the jurisdiction of the Church (except, of course, so far as questions of "morals" may arise
in connection with them), Man's conduct and general demeanour are supposed to have no bearing
on his eternal destiny. This is the view of the secular life which is taken by the Church.
And not by the Church alone. As, little by little, the Institution--be it Church, or Sect,
or Code, or Scripture--which claims to be the sole accredited agent of the Eternal God, relaxes
its hold upon the ever-expanding life of Humanity, all those developments of human nature which
cease to be amenable to its control come to be regarded as mundane, as unspiritual, as carnal,
as matters with which God has no concern.

Were this view of the secular life confined to those who call themselves religious, no great
harm would be done. Unfortunately, the secular life, which is under the influence of the current
conception of God as one who holds no intercourse with Man except through certain accredited
agents, is ready to acquiesce in the current estimate of itself as godless, and to accept as
valid the distinction between the religious life and its own. Hence comes a general lowering
of Man's aims. As the secular life is content to regard itself as godless, and so deprives
itself of any central and unifying aim, it is but natural that success in each of its many
branches should come to be regarded as an end in itself. It is but natural, to take examples
at random, that the artist should follow art for art's sake, that the man of science should
deify positive knowledge, that the statesman should regard political power as intrinsically
desirable, that the merchant and the manufacturer should live to make money, and that the highest
motive which appeals to all men alike should be the desire to bulk large in the eyes of their
fellow-men. Even the ardent reformer, whose enthusiasm makes him unselfish, pursues the ideal
to which he devotes himself, as an end in itself, and makes no attempt to define or interpret
it in terms of its relation to that supreme and central ideal which he ought to regard as the
final end of human endeavour. When we remind ourselves, further, that secularism, equally with
supernaturalism, tends to identify "Nature" with lower nature--in other words, with the material
side of the Universe and the carnal side of Man's being,--we shall realise how easy it is for
the secular life, once it has lost, through its divorce from religion, the tonic stimulus of
a central aim, to sink, without directly intending to do so, into the mire of materialism,--a
materialism of conduct as well as of thought.

But if the loss to the secular life, from its compulsory despiritualisation, is great, the
loss to religion, from the secularisation of so much of Man's rational activity, is greater
still. The very distinction between the secular and the religious life is profoundly irreligious,
in that it rests on the tacit assumption that there is no unity, no central aim, in human life;
and the fact that official religion is ready to acquiesce in the distinction, is ready, in
other words, to make a compromise with its enemy "the world," is a proof that it is secretly
conscious of its own failing power, and is even beginning to despair of itself. As it resigns
itself to this feeling (as yet perhaps but dimly realised), its reasons for entertaining it
must needs grow stronger. The progressive enlargement of the sphere of Man's secular activities
is accompanied, step for step, by the devitalisation of the idea of the Divine. What kind of
intercourse can God be supposed to hold with Man if the latter is to be left to his own devices
in what he must needs regard as among the more important aspects of his life,--in his commercial
and industrial enterprises, in his art, in his literature, in his study of Nature's laws, in
his mastery of Nature's forces, in his pursuit of positive truth and practical good? As in
these matters Man frees himself, little by little, from the yoke of supernaturalism, which
he has been accustomed to identify with religion, his formal conception of his relation to
God and of the part that God plays in his life--the conception that is defined and elucidated
for him by religious "orthodoxy"--becomes of necessity more irrational, more mechanical, more
unreal, more repugnant to his better nature and to the higher developments of his "common-sense."
The tendency to exalt the letter of what is spoken or written, at the expense of the spirit,
is as much of the essence of ecclesiasticism as of legalism. "Si dans les règles du salut le
fond l'emporterait sur la forme, ce serait la ruine du sacerdoce." And, as a matter of experience,
the hair-splitting puerilities of Pharisaism under the Old Dispensation have been matched,
and more than matched, in the spheres of ritual, of dogmatic theology, and of casuistical morality,
under the New. As Man gradually shifts the centre of gravity of his being from the religious
to the secular side of his life, this puerile element in religion--the element of ultra-formalism,
of irrationality, of unreality--tends, like a morbid growth, to draw to itself the vital energies
of what was once a healthy organism but is now degenerating into a "body of death." If, in
these days of absorbing secular activity, Man continues to tolerate the theories and practices
of the religious experts, the reason is--apart from the influence of custom and tradition and
of his respect for venerable and "established" institutions--that they are things which he
has neither time nor inclination to investigate, and which he can therefore afford to tolerate
as being far removed from what is vital and central in his life. I am told that the Catholic
Church holds, in the case of a dying man, "that the eternal fate of the soul, for good or for
evil, may depend upon the reception or the non-reception of absolution, and even of extreme
unction." That the truly appalling conception of God which is implicit in this sentence should
still survive, that it should not yet have been swept out of existence by the outraged common-sense
and good feeling of Humanity, is a proof of the immense indifference with which the Western
world, absorbed as it is in secular pursuits, regards religion.

It may indeed be doubted if men have ever been so non-religious as are at the present day the
inhabitants of our highly-civilised and thoroughly-Christianised West. At any rate the absence
of a central aim in human life has never been so complete as it is now. Most men are content
to drift through life, toiling for the daily bread which will enable them to go on living,
yet neither knowing nor caring to know why they are alive. There is a minority of stronger
and more resolute men who devote life with unwavering energy to the pursuit of what I may call
private and personal ends. Thus the man of business lives for the acquisition of riches; the
scholar and the scientist, of knowledge; the statesman, of power; the speculator, of excitement;
the libertine, of pleasure; and so forth. Few are they who ever dream of devoting life as a
whole to the pursuit of an end which is potentially attainable by all men, and which is therefore
worthy of Man as Man. The idea of there being such an end has indeed been almost wholly lost
sight of. Those among us who are of larger discourse than the rest and less absorbed by personal
aims, ask themselves mournfully: What is the meaning of life? Why are we here? Is life worth
living? and other such questions; and being unable to answer them to their satisfaction, or
get them answered, resign themselves to a state of quasi-stoical endurance. That religion cannot
be expected to answer these questions--the very questions which it is its right and its duty
to answer--seems to be taken for granted by all who ask them. Religion, as it is now conceived
of, is a thing for priests and ministers, for churches and chapels, for Sundays and Saints'-days,
for the private devotions of women and children, for educational debates in Parliament, for
the first lesson on the time-table (9.5 to 9.45 a.m.) of a Public Elementary School. The "unbeliever"
is eager to run a tilt against religion. The "non-believer" is content to ignore it. The "believer"
is careful to exclude it from nine-tenths of his life. It is to this pass that the gospel of
salvation by machinery has brought the most "progressive" part of the human race.

The phase of non-religiousness through which the West is passing has, we may rest assured,
a meaning and a purpose. At the meetings of the Catholic Truth Society it is customary for
the speakers to deplore the steady relapse of Christendom into paganism, which is going on
before their eyes. As the Church had things her own way for ten centuries or more, these complaints
on the part of her champions are equivalent to a confession on her part of disastrous failure.
Why is the Church, after having evangelised the West and ruled it for a thousand years, allowing
it to slide back into paganism? The answer to this question is that she herself is unwittingly
paganising it. I mean by this that, without intending to do so, she is compelling it to choose
between secularised life and arrested growth. Were a growing tree encircled with an iron band,
the day would surely come when the tree, by the force of its own natural expansion, would either
shatter the band or allow it to cut deep into its own stem. The growing consciousness of Humanity
has long been encircled by a rigid and inadequate conception of God. The gradual secularisation
of the West means that the soul of man is straining that particular conception of God to breaking-point:
and it is infinitely better that it should be broken to pieces than that its iron should be
allowed to sink deep into the soul.

The secularisation of contemporary life means this, and more than this. It means the gradual
handing back of Man's life to the control of Nature,--of Nature which is as yet unequal to
the task that is being set it, owing to its having been through all these centuries identified
with its lower self, taught to distrust itself, and otherwise misinterpreted and mismanaged,
but which, in obedience to the primary instinct of self-preservation, will gradually rise to
the level of the responsibility that is being laid upon it. With the further secularisation
of Man's life, the need for religion to make effective the control of Nature, by pointing out
to it its own ideal and so co-ordinating and organising all its forces, will gradually make
itself felt, and the regeneration of religion will at last have begun.

       *       *       *       *       *

For many centuries the current of religious belief in the West was almost entirely confined
to the one channel of Catholic Christianity. There the mighty river pursued his course, "brimming
and bright and large," till the time came when, with the gradual loss of his pristine energy--

              "Sands began
  To hem his wintry march, and dam his streams
  And split his currents";

Side channels were formed, and grew in number; and though Catholicism is still the central
channel for the moving waters, the river has now fallen on evil days, and "strains along,"
"shorn and parcelled," like the river of the Asian desert--

    "forgetting the bright speed he bore
  In his high mountain cradle."

Of the many side streams into which Western Christianity has split, the majority may be spoken
of collectively as Protestant. Protestantism claims to have liberated a large part of Christendom
from the yoke of Rome; and it is therefore right that we should ask ourselves in what sense
and to what extent it has brought freedom to the human spirit. The answer to this question
is, I think, that though Protestantism has fought a good fight for the principle of freedom,
it has failed--for many reasons, the chief of which is that it began its work before men were
ripe for freedom--to lead its votaries into the path of spiritual life and growth. Confronted
by the uncompromising dogmatism of Rome, it had to devise a counter dogmatism of its own in
order to rally round it the faint-hearted who, though eager to absolve themselves from obedience
to the despotism of the Church, yet feared to walk by their own "inward light." In making this
move, which was not the less false because it was in a sense inevitable, Protestantism may
be said to have renounced its mission. That it has done much, in various ways, for human progress
is undeniable; but the fact remains that it has failed to revitalise Christianity. Its master-stroke
in its struggle with priestcraft--the substitution of "faith" for "works" as the basis of salvation--has
done little or nothing to relieve the West from the deadly pressure of Israel's philosophy.
For faith, as Protestantism understands the word, is the movement of the soul, not towards
the ideal end of its being but towards an alleged supernatural transaction,--the redemption
of the world by the death of Christ on the Cross. Gratitude to Christ for his love and self-sacrifice
may indeed be an effective motive to action, but faith in the efficacy of Christ's atoning
sacrifice is no guide to conduct. The inability of Protestantism to deduce a scheme of life
from its own master-principle of salvation by "faith" has compelled it, in its desire to avoid
the pitfalls of antinomianism, to revive in a modified form the practical legalism of the Old
Testament. The Protestant desires to show his gratitude to Christ by leading a correct life;
but his distrust of his own higher nature compels him to go to some external authority for
ethical guidance; and as he has repudiated the authority of the supernaturally-inspired Church,
he is compelled to have recourse to the supernaturally-inspired Bible. Hence the traditional
alliance between Protestantism and the Old Testament, in which the path of duty is far more
clearly and consistently defined than in the New. And hence the singular fact that Calvinism,
which is the backbone of Protestantism, and which in theory, and even (at times) in practice,
regards "works" as "filthy rags," finds its other self in Puritanism, which is in the main
a recrudescence of Jewish legalism in the more strictly moral sphere of conduct.

It is owing to its alliance with the legalism of Israel, that Protestantism has been in some
respects an even greater enemy of human freedom than Catholicism, and has on the whole done
more than the latter to narrow and maim human life. The strict legalist tries, as we have seen,
to bring the whole of human life under the direct control of the Law; and when he finds, as
the Puritan did in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, that whole aspects of life have
in point of fact escaped from the control of religion and won from the latter a tacit acceptance
of themselves as secular, he not unnaturally tends to regard these non-religious aspects of
life as "carnal," and therefore as unacceptable to God. Hence the antipathy of the Protestant,
in his seasons of Puritanical fanaticism, to art, music, the drama, and other noble fruits
of the human spirit. Catholicism has found itself compelled to tolerate the secular activities
of the layman; Protestantism, while tolerating those activities by which man earns his daily
bread and which may be spoken of collectively as "business," has from time to time waged war
against all the developments of human nature which are neither spiritual (in the narrow and
rigid sense of the word) nor obviously useful, and has sought to extirpate the corresponding
desires from the heart of Man. On the more artistic side of human life, it has done as much
to impede the growth of the soul as Catholicism has done on the more intellectual side; and
through its influence on character it has done as much to harden the fibre of the soul as Catholicism
has done to relax it, the tendency of both religions being to destroy that elasticity of fibre
which mediates between hardness and flabbiness, and which has its counterpart in vigorous health
and strength.

The truth is--but it is a truth which Protestantism is apt to misinterpret, and which Catholicism
finds it expedient to ignore--that religion is not a branch or department of human life, but
a way of looking at life as a whole. Indeed, it is of the essence of religion (as has been
already suggested) that it should look at life as a whole, and so be able to look at each of
its details in the light of that supreme synthesis which we call Divine. And the religion which
sanctions, and by its own action necessitates, the division of life into two branches--the
secular and the religious--has obviously missed its destiny and betrayed its trust.

       *       *       *       *       *

A brief summary of the contents of this chapter will prepare the way for the next. The movements
of higher thought in the West have been dominated, nominally by the professional thinker, really
by the average man. As a thinker, the average man is incurably dualistic. Enslaved as he is
to the requirements of his instrument, language, he instinctively opposes mind to body, spirit
to matter, good to evil, the Creator to the Creation, God to Man; and in each case he fixes
a great gulf between the "mighty opposites" that constitute the given antithesis. Confronted
by the mystery of existence, he has explained it by the story of Creation. Confronted by the
twin mysteries of sin and sorrow, he has explained them by the story of the Fall. From the
story of the Fall he has passed on to the doctrine of original sin, to the belief that Nature
in general, and human nature in particular, is corrupt and ruined, and therefore intrinsically
evil. Shrinking from the hopeless prospect which this belief opens up to him, he has found
refuge in the conception of another world,--of a world above and beyond Nature, a world of
Divine perfection from which information and guidance can at God's good pleasure be doled out
to Man. For a "supernatural revelation" (as theologians call this sending of help from God
to Man) special instruments are obviously needed,--a special People, a special Scripture, a
special Lawgiver, a special Prophet, a special Church. Hence has arisen the idea that certain
persons, certain castes, certain institutions have a monopoly of Divine truth and grace, and
are therefore in a position to dictate to their fellow-men how they are to bear themselves
if they wish to be "saved," what they are to believe, what they are to do. From this the transition
has been easy to the further idea that salvation is to be achieved by blind and mechanical
obedience,--by renouncing the right to follow one's own higher nature, to obey one's own conscience,
to use one's own reason, to map out one's own life. In order to induce men to yield the obedience
which is required of them, their lower instincts have had to be appealed to (for the higher,
ruined by the Fall, have presumably ceased to operate),--their desire for pleasure by the promise
of Heaven, their fear of pain by the threat of Hell. And in order that their lives may be kept
under close supervision and their merits accurately appraised, an ever-increasing stress has
had to be laid on what is outward, visible, and measurable in human life, as distinguished
from what is inward and occult,--on correctness in the details of prescribed conduct, or again
in the details of formulated belief. As the idea of salvation through mechanical obedience
develops into a systematised scheme of life, the higher and more spiritual faculties of Man's
nature become gradually atrophied by disuse. In other words, the channel of soul growth--the
only channel that leads to spiritual health, and therefore to "salvation"--becomes gradually
obstructed, with the result that the vital energies of the soul tend either to dissipate themselves
and run to waste, or to make new channels for themselves,--channels of degenerative tendency,
the end of which is spiritual death.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] By "self-satisfaction" I mean satisfaction with the existing system as a system. That strenuous
efforts are being made to improve the system, within its own limits, I can well believe. But
the system itself, with the defects and limitations which are of its essence, seems to be regarded
as adequate, and even as final, by nearly all who work under it.

[2] 1862 to 1895 A.D.

[3] The Jewish People in the time of Jesus Christ, by Dr. Emil Schürer.

[4] In its extreme form legalism tends to bring about that ruin of human nature which it starts
by postulating; for, by forbidding Man's higher faculties to energise, it necessarily arrests
their development, and so makes it possible for the lower faculties to draw to themselves an
undue share of the rising sap of Man's life.

CHAPTER II

EDUCATION THROUGH MECHANICAL OBEDIENCE

The God of popular theology has been engaged for more than thirty centuries in educating his
child, Man. His system of education has been based on complete distrust of Man's nature. In
the schools which Man has been required to attend--the Legal School under the Old Dispensation,
the Ecclesiastical School under the New--it has been taken for granted that he can neither
discern what is true, nor desire what is good. The truth of things has therefore been formulated
for him, and he has been required to learn it by rote and profess his belief in it, clause
by clause. His duty has also been formulated for him, and he has been required to perform it,
detail by detail, in obedience to the commandments of an all-embracing Code, or to the direction
of an all-controlling Church.

It has further been taken for granted that Man's instincts and impulses are wholly evil, and
that "Right Faith" and "Right Conduct" are entirely repugnant to his nature. In order to overcome
the resistance which his corrupt heart and perverse will might therefore be expected to offer
to the authority and influence of his teachers, a scheme of rewards and punishments has had
to be devised for his benefit. As there is no better nature for the scheme to appeal to, an
appeal has had to be made to fears and hopes which are avowedly base. The refractory child
has had to be threatened with corporal punishment in the form of an eternity of torment in
Hell. And he has had to be bribed by the offer of prizes, the chief of which is an eternity
of selfish enjoyment in Heaven,--enjoyment so selfish that it will consist with, and even (it
is said) be heightened by, the knowledge that in the Final Examination the failures have been
many and the prize-winners few.

And as, under this system of education, obedience is the first and last of virtues, so self-will--in
the sense of daring to think and act for oneself--is the first and last of offences. It is
for the sin of spiritual initiative--the sin of trying to work out one's own salvation by the
exercise of reason, conscience, imagination, aspiration, and other spiritual faculties--that
the direst penalties are reserved. The path of salvation is the path of blind, passive, mechanical
obedience. To deviate even a little from that path is to incur the penalty of eternal death.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Man is educated by his father, God, so must the child be educated by his father, the adult
man. If the nature of Man is intrinsically evil, the child must needs have been conceived in
sin and shapen in iniquity. If Man, even in his maturity, cannot be trusted to think or desire
or do what is right, still less can he be so trusted when he is that relatively immature and
helpless being, the child. If the adult man has to be told in the fullest detail (whether by
a formulated Law or by a living Church) how he is to conduct himself, still greater is the
need for such or similar direction to be given to the child. If the adult is to be "saved"
by strict and mechanical obedience, and by no other method, still greater is the need for such
obedience on the part of the child. If a system of external and quasi-material rewards and
punishments is indispensable in the education of the adult, still less can it be dispensed
with in the education of the child. These a fortiori arguments are strong; but there is a stronger.
The child will develop into the adult, and he cannot too soon be initiated into the life which,
as the adult, he will have to lead. The process of educating the child is not merely analogous
to the process of "saving" the man. It is a vital part of it. For childhood is the time when
human nature is most easily moulded; and the bent that is given to it then is, in nine cases
out of ten, decisive of its ultimate destiny.

It is clear, then, that if Man is to be "saved" by a régime of mechanical obedience, his education
in his childhood must be based on the same general conception of life and duty. This means,
in the first place, that the child must be brought up in an atmosphere of severity. The God
of the Old Testament--the Deity whose nimbus overshadows the life of the West--combines in
his own person the functions of law-giver, governor, prosecutor, judge, and executioner. His
subjects are a race of vile offenders, whose every impulse is bad, and whose nature turns towards
evil as inevitably as a plant turns towards the light. As he cannot trust them to know good
from evil, he has had to provide them with an elaborate code of law; and he has had to take
for granted that, left to themselves, they will break his commandments, and find pleasure in
doing so. From the very outset, then, his attitude towards them has been one of suspicion and
rising anger. He is always on the look-out for disobedience, and he is ready to chastise the
offender almost before he has had time to commit the offence. His pupils, brought up in an
atmosphere of suspicion, and taught from their earliest days to disbelieve in and condemn themselves,
can scarcely be blamed for living down to the evil reputation which they have unfortunately
gained. To persuade a man that he is a miserable sinner is to go some way towards leading him
into the path of sin. Systematic distrust paralyses and demoralises those who live under it,
and so tends to justify the cruelty into which it too readily develops. The penalties which
God has attached to the sins which he may almost be said to have provoked Man to commit, are
so terrible and unjust that if the fear of them has not robbed life of all its sunshine, the
reason is that their very horror has numbed Man's imagination, and made it impossible for him
even to begin to picture to himself their lurid gloom.

In the West men have loyally striven to reproduce towards their children the supposed attitude
of their God of Wrath towards themselves. From very tender years the child has been brought
up in an atmosphere of displeasure and mistrust. His spontaneous activities have been repressed
as evil. His every act has been looked upon with suspicion. He has been ever on the defensive,
like a prisoner in the dock. He has been ever on the alert for a sentence of doom. He has been
cuffed, kicked, caned, flogged, shut up in the dark, fed on bread and water, sent hungry to
bed, subjected to a variety of cruel and humiliating punishments, terrified with idle--but
to him appalling--threats. In his misery he has shed a whole ocean of tears,--the salt and
bitter tears of hopeless grief and helpless anger, not the soul-refreshing tears which are
sometimes distilled from sorrow by the sunshine of love. But of all the cruelties to which
he has been subjected, the most devilish has been that of making him believe in his own criminality,
in the corruption of his innocent heart. In the deadly shade of that chilling cloud, the flower
of his opening life has too often withered before it has had time to expand. For what is most
cruel in cruelty is its tendency to demoralise its victims, especially those who are of tender
years--to harden them, to brutalise them, to make them stubborn and secretive, to make them
shifty and deceitful, to throw them back upon themselves, to shut them up within themselves,
to quench the joy of their hearts, to numb their sympathies, to cramp their expansive energies,
to narrow and darken their whole outlook on life. All this the cruelty of his seniors would
do to the child, even if he had not been taught to believe in his own inborn wickedness. But
that belief, with which he has been indoctrinated from his earliest days, necessarily weakens
his power of resisting evil, and so predisposes him to fall a victim to the malignant germs
that cruelty sows in his heart. We tell the child that he is a criminal, and treat him as such,
and then expect him to be perfect; and when our misguided education has begun to deprave him,
we shake our heads over his congenital depravity, and thank God that we believe in "original
sin."[5]

In the next place, if Man is to be faithful to his model, he must bring up the child in an
atmosphere of vexatious interference and unnatural restraint. That Man himself has been brought
up in such an atmosphere in both his schools--the Legal and the Ecclesiastical--I need not
take pains to prove. What he has suffered at the hands of his Schoolmaster--the God of Israel
(and of Christendom)--he has taken good care to inflict on his pupil, the child. Such phrases
as: "Don't talk," "Don't fidget," "Don't worry," "Don't ask questions," "Don't make a noise,"
"Don't make a mess," "Don't do this thing," "Don't do that thing," are ever falling from his
lips. And they are supplemented with such positive instructions as: "Sit still," "Stand on
the form," "Hold yourself up," "Fold arms," "Hands behind backs," "Hands on heads," "Eyes on
the blackboard." At every turn--from infancy till adolescence, "from early morning till late
in the evening"--these "dead and deadening formulas" await the unhappy child. The aim of his
teachers is to leave nothing to his nature, nothing to his spontaneous life, nothing to his
free activity; to repress all his natural impulses; to drill his energies into complete quiescence;
to keep his whole being in a state of sustained and painful tension. And in order that we may
see a meaning and a rational purpose in this régime of oppressive interference, we must assume
that its ultimate aim is to turn the child into an animated puppet, who, having lost his capacity
for vital activity, will be ready to dance, or rather go through a series of jerky movements,
in response to the strings which his teacher pulls. It is the inevitable reaction from this
state of tension which is responsible for much of the "naughtiness" of children. The spontaneous
energies of the child, when education has blocked all their lawful outlets, must needs force
new outlets for themselves,--lawless outlets, if no others are available. The child's instinct
to live will see to that. It sometimes happens that, when the channel of a river has been blocked
by winter's ice, the river, on its awakening in Spring, will suddenly change its course and
carve out a new channel for itself, reckless of the destruction that it may cause, so long
as an outlet can by any means be found for its baffled current. It is the same with the river
of the child's expanding life. The naughtiest and most mischievous boy not infrequently develops
into a hero, or a leader of men. The explanation of this is that through his very naughtiness
the current of soul-growth, which ran stronger in him than in his school-mates, kept open the
channel which his teachers were doing their best to close. Even Hooliganism--to take the most
serious of the periodic outbursts of juvenile criminality--resolves itself, when thoughtfully
considered, into a sudden and violent change in the channel of a boy's life, a change which
is due to the normal channel (or channels) of his expansive energies having been blocked by
years of educational repression. His wild, ruffianly outrages are perhaps the last despairing
effort that his vital principle makes to assert itself, before it finally gives up the struggle
for active existence.

       *       *       *       *       *

When severity and constraint have done their work, when the spirit of the child has been broken,
when his vitality has been lowered to its barest minimum, when he has been reduced to a state
of mental and moral serfdom, the time has come for the system of education through mechanical
obedience to be applied to him in all its rigour. In other words, the time has come for Man
to do to the child, what the God whom he worships is supposed to have done to him,--to tell
him in the fullest and minutest detail what he is to do to be "saved," and to stand over him
with a scourge in his hand and see that he does it. In the two great schools which God is supposed
to have opened for Man's benefit, freedom and initiative have ever been regarded (and with
good reason) as the gravest of offences. Literal obedience has been exacted by the Law; blind
obedience by the Church; passive obedience--the obedience of a puppet, or at best of an automaton--by
both. The need for this insistence on the part of Law and Church is obvious. If any lingering
desire to think things out for himself, if any intelligent interest in what he was taught,
survived in the disciple, the whole system of salvation by machinery would be in danger of
being thrown out of gear.

As it has been, and still is, in the schools which God has opened for Man, so it has been,
and still is, in the schools which Man has opened for the child. Blind, passive, literal, unintelligent
obedience is the basis on which the whole system of Western education has been reared. The
child must distrust himself absolutely, must realise that he is as helpless as he is ignorant,
before he can begin to profit by the instruction that will be given to him. His mind must become
a tabula rasa before his teacher can begin to write on it. The vital part of him--call it what
you will--must become as clay before his teacher can begin to mould him to his will.

The strength of the child, then, is to sit still, to listen, to say "Amen" to, or repeat, what
he has heard. The strength of the teacher is to bustle about, to give commands, to convey information,
to exhort, to expound. The strength of the child is to efface himself in every possible way.
The strength of the teacher is to assert himself in every possible way. The golden rule of
education is that the child is to do nothing for himself which his teacher can possibly do,
or even pretend to do, for him. Were he to try to do things by or for himself, he would probably
start by doing them badly. This is not to be tolerated. Imperfection and incorrectness are
moral defects; and the child must as far as possible be guarded from them as from the contamination
of moral guilt. He must therefore trust himself to his teacher, and do what he is told to do
in the precise way in which he is told. His teacher must stand in front of him and give such
directions as these: "Look at me," "See what I am doing," "Watch my hand," "Do the thing this
way," "Do the thing that way," "Listen to what I say," "Repeat it after me," "Repeat it all
together," "Say it three times." And the child, growing more and more comatose, must obey these
directions and ask no questions; and when he has done what he has been told to do, he must
sit still and wait for the next instalment of instruction.

What is all this doing for the child? The teacher seldom asks himself this question. If he
did, he would answer it by saying that the end of education is to enable the child to produce
certain outward and visible results,--to do by himself what he has often done, either in imitation
of his teacher, or in obedience to his repeated directions; to say by himself what he has said
many times in chorus with his class-mates; to disgorge some fragments of the information with
which he has been crammed; and so forth. What may be the value of these outward results, what
they indicate, what amount or kind of mental (or other) growth may be behind them,--are questions
which the teacher cannot afford to consider, even if he felt inclined to ask them. His business
is to drill the child into the mechanical production of quasi-material results; and his success
in doing this will be gauged in due course by an "examination,"--a periodic test which is designed
to measure, not the degree of growth which the child has made, but the industry of the teacher
as indicated by the receptivity of his class.

The truth is that inward and spiritual growth, even if it were thought desirable to produce
it and measure it, could not possibly be measured. The real "results" of education are in the
child's heart and mind and soul, beyond the reach of any measuring tape or weighing machine.
It follows that if the work of the teacher is to be tested, an external test must be applied.
This means that external results, results which can be weighed and measured, must be aimed
at by both teacher and child, and that the value of these as symbols of what is inward and
intrinsic must be wholly ignored. Not that the inward results of education would in any case
be seriously considered. When education is based on the passivity of the child, nothing matters
to him or to his teacher except the accuracy with which he can reproduce what he has been taught,--can
repeat what he has been told, or do by himself what he has been told how to do. What connection
there may be between these achievements and his mental state matters so little that the bare
idea of there being such a connection is, as a rule, entirely lost sight of. The externalisation
of religion in the West, as evidenced by its ceremonialism and its casuistry, has faithfully
mirrored itself in the externality of Western education. The examination system (which I will
presently consider) keeps education in the grooves of externality, and drives those grooves
so deep as to make escape from them impossible. Yet it does but give formal recognition to,
and in so doing crown and complete--as the keystone crowns and completes the arch--the whole
system of education in the West. It is because what is outward and visible counts for everything
in the West, first in the life of the adult and then in the life of the child, that the idea
of weighing and measuring the results of education--with its implicit assumption that the real
results of education are ponderable and measurable (a deadly fallacy which now has the force
and authority of an axiom)--has come to establish itself in every Western land.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tendency of the Western teacher to mistake the externals for the essentials of education,
and to measure educational progress in terms of the "appearance of things," gives rise to many
misconceptions, one of the principal of which is the current confusion between information
and knowledge. To generate knowledge in his pupils is a legitimate end of the teacher's ambition.
In schools and other "academies" it tends to become the chief, if not the sole, end; and, things
being what they are, the teacher may be pardoned for regarding it as such. But what is knowledge?
The vulgar confusion between knowledge and information is the accepted answer to this question.
But the answer is usually given before the question has been seriously considered. One who
allowed himself to reflect on it, however briefly or cursorily, would quickly realise that
it is possible to have intimate and effective knowledge of a subject without being able to
impart any information about it. Successful action, as in arts, crafts, games, sports, and
the like, must needs have subtle and accurate knowledge behind it; but the possessor of such
knowledge is seldom able to impart it with any approach to lucidity. On the other hand, it
frequently happens that one who has a retentive memory is able to impart information glibly
and correctly, without possessing any real knowledge of the subject in question.

The truth is that knowledge, which may perhaps be provisionally defined as a correct attitude
towards one's environment, has almost as wide a range as that of human nature itself. At one
end of the scale we have the quasi-animal instinct which governs successful physical action.
At the other end we have the knowledge, of which, and of the possession of which, its possessor
is clearly, conscious. Between these extremes there is an almost infinite series of strata,
ranging through every conceivable degree of subconsciousness. The knowledge that is real and
effective is absorbed into one or more of the subconscious strata, from which it gradually
ascends, under the influence of attention and reflection, towards the more conscious levels,
gaining, as it ascends, in scope and outlook what it may possibly lose in subtlety and nearness
to action. When knowledge, after passing upwards through many subconscious strata, rises to
what I may call the surface-level of consciousness, it is ready, on occasion, to give itself
off as information. This exhalation from the surface of consciousness is genuine information,
not to be confounded with knowledge, to which it is related as the outward to the inward state,
still less to be confounded with that spurious information which floats, as we shall presently
see, like a film on the surface of the mind, meaning nothing and indicating nothing except
that it has been artificially deposited, and that in due season it will be skimmed off, if
the teacher's hopes are fulfilled, for the delectation of an examiner.

There are, of course, many cases in which the conscious acquisition of information is a necessary
stage in the acquisition of knowledge. But in all such cases, if the information acquired is
to have any educative value, it must be allowed to sink down into the subconscious strata,
whence, after having been absorbed and assimilated and so converted into knowledge, it will
perhaps reascend towards the surface of the mind, just as the leaves which fall in autumn are
dragged down into the soil below, converted into fertile mould, and then gradually lifted towards
the surface; or as the fresh water that the rivers pour into the sea has to be slowly absorbed
into the whole mass of salt water before it (or its equivalent) can return to the land as rain.
When information which has been received and assimilated rises to the surface of the mind,
it will be ready, when required to do so, to reappear as information, and perhaps to return
in that form to the source from which it came. But the information which is given off will
differ profoundly from that which has been received, for between the two will have intervened
many stages of silent absorption and silent growth.

It may be necessary, then, in the course of education, both to supply and to demand information.
But the information which is supplied must be regarded as the raw material of knowledge, into
which it is to be converted by a subtle and secret process. And the information which is demanded
must be regarded as an exhalation (so to speak) from the surface of a mind which has been saturated
with study and experience, and therefore as a proof of the possession of knowledge. To assume
that knowledge and information are interchangeable terms, that to impart information is therefore
to generate knowledge, that to give back information is therefore to give proof of the possession
of knowledge,--is one of the greatest mistakes that a teacher can make.

But the mistake is almost universally made. Information being related to knowledge, as what
is outward to what is inward, it is but natural that education in the West, which on principle
concerns itself with what is outward, and ignores what is inward, should have always regarded,
and should still regard, the supplying of information as the main function of the teacher,
and the ability of the child to retail the information which has been supplied to him as a
convincing proof that the work of the teacher has been successfully done. In nine schools out
of ten, on nine days out of ten, in nine lessons out of ten, the teacher is engaged in laying
thin films of information on the surface of the child's mind, and then, after a brief interval,
in skimming these off in order to satisfy himself that they had been duly laid. He cannot afford
to do otherwise. If the child, like the man, is to be "saved" by passive obedience, his teacher
must keep his every action and operation under close and constant supervision. Were the information
which is supplied to him allowed to descend into the subconscious strata of his being, there
to be dealt with by the secret, subtle, assimilative processes of his nature, it would escape
from the teacher's supervision and therefore from his control. In other words, the teacher
would have abdicated his function. He must therefore take great pains to keep the processes
by which the child acquires knowledge (or what passes for such) as near to the surface of his
mind as possible; in rivalry of the nurse who should take so much interest in the well-being
of her charges that she would not allow them to digest the food which she had given them, but
would insist on their disgorging it at intervals, in order that she might satisfy herself that
it had been duly given and received. It is no doubt right that the teacher should take steps
to test the industry of his pupils; but the information which the child has always to keep
at the call of his memory, in order that he may give it back on demand in the form in which
he has received it, is the equivalent of food which its recipient has not been allowed to digest.

The confusion between information and knowledge lies at the heart of the religion, as well
as of the education, of the West. In this, as in other matters, the training of the child by
his teacher has been modelled on the supposed training of Man by God. It is scarcely an exaggeration
to say that the whole scheme of salvation by mechanical obedience is pivoted on the assumed
identity of information and knowledge. In both the schools which Man has attended three things
have always been taken for granted. The first is that salvation depends upon right knowledge
of God. The second, that right knowledge of God and correct information about God are interchangeable
phrases. The third, that correct information about God is procurable by, and communicable to,
Man. From these premises it has been inferred that if Man can be duly supplied with correct
information about God, and can be induced to receive and retain it, he will be able to "save
his soul alive." The difference between the two schools is, that in the Legal School the information
supplied to Man has been largely concerned with the Will of God, so far as it bears on the
life of Man, and has therefore taken the form of a Code of formulated commandments; whereas
in the Ecclesiastical School it has mainly been concerned with the Being of God, as interpreted
from his doings and especially from his dealings with Man, and has therefore taken the form
of catechisms and creeds. Your data dildos, their delicious
  records, which make up the true history book Switzerland, show
  the urgent necessity to are the other governments of Europe
  to spread and propagate instruction, without which people can not
  be free without which people fail, without which no life possible:
  because the brutalization of the people is the raison d'etre
  of tyranny, is the support of despotisms.
  

  I have had pleasure in comparing the statistics of public
  instruction in Switzerland with France, England, Austria and
  Prussia, and the most remarkable difference is in favor of free
  Switzerland, proclaims loudly and with incontrovertible
  eloquence of numbers, the affluent state of Switzerland in the
  intellectual side, and the superiority that leads to the other
  towns in the spread of what he everyone should, of instruction,
  that seeing as the race Governments of some people, it would
  seem that belongs right to every man, to every citizen.
  

  Governments to spread the instruction, to educate all classes, and
  to all individuals, not do more than meet his duty to have met
  some men in society: no is solely for the purpose of paying taxes
  and supporting the burdens of the nation, the state on the other
  hand, we must protection, defense of their rights if
  they are attacked, instruction free, is an essential duty, and agreed
  to all that is missing Governments that do not practice it, and
  make a usurpation, and allow the people to not recognize its authority.

Turning
  now to Switzerland for a necessary digression me paragraph for a
moment, just enter that exist in 5.500 Swiss Confederation schools,
with those arising in 430.107 1855 disciples.

  These two remarkable figures in a town of less than three million
  people, are sufficient to put on a high and enviable position:
  these data are relieved of any comment, speak for themselves better
  than all the phrases.
  
  Hospitals and other charitable institutions are relative to their
  institutions and developments: charity Christian, the first of virtues,
is masterfully understood and practiced in pious establishments Switzerland.

Cuéntanse

  also many wonderful houses of alienating; to half a league from
  Berne, stands a majestic building destined to the care and
  cure of the poor mad: is admirable in every respect, and others
  like him are I seen in different cantons, the near Bern is
  ideally located, in front is green and hold lush meadows, an abundant
and picturesque woodland surroundings, and you circulating the Alps,
with its high peaks.

  
  
  The government of Switzerland is the only one who can be called
  truly free, extremely popular. According to the constitution of
  1848, which is venerated and practice, which is a written law,
  but an accomplished fact, the people are the do all speaking,
  naturally and by law, in all state affairs.
  

  Local businesses and resolves the council directs each
  canton, whose members choose the people: general issues
  of the confederation are likewise entrusted to the people federal
  assembly, consisting of deputies of all nation, chooses the president
  and the ministers of the confederacy; As Members are the genuine
  representatives of the people governance is always popular, as it
should be in everywhere.

  
  
  The presidents of the confederation are elected by only a year: at
  the end of his teaching, put forth its acts are judged by
  public opinion, and are removed quiet, entering his successor each
  year to perform the final judiciary.
  
  The choice of ministers also makes the federal assembly: the powers
of the ministers for six years, exercise their charges under the chairmanship
of the first citizen of the confederation, present their acts twice
a year to view the assembly and finished his powers, returning to
its previous condition or are have been re-elected if worthy.

  
  
  The election of president and ministers are in the most patriotic
  and peaceful: the Swiss do not know that freedom tumultuous wrongly
  claiming that other peoples: in Switzerland is public life of all
citizens: that most loves justice and freedom, which is closest to
the good citizen is elected and voted by the Assembly, which represents
the people.

  
  
  Thus, the governorship of the State meets all desirable conditions
  for success: all citizens, from the first to last, involved in
  the management of public affairs, in this way are perfectly guaranteed
  rights people.

  Very modest salaries of public employees lighten the public burdens,
  and make the Swiss will be free of this disease called
  empleomania, and how fatal produce results in some towns in Europe.

The
  president of the confederation, the supreme judge, just status
  as any sovereign, has six thousand francs salary per year that
  is the whole period of their position: living modestly, without servants,
without carriages, without ostentation, and authority is as respected
as the first ruler of Europe, because the authorities in Switzerland
is the law.

  I met two presidents, Colonel-Herosée Frey and Dr. Furrer,
  both honest, straight, ilustradísimos modest.
  
  In Switzerland also have the immense joy of not knowing the standing
  armies, heavy burden in other towns Europe increased budgets,
  the economy and makes it impossible makes the reign of liberty.
  Swiss all welded, and when the country needs it, gets up in twenty-four
  hours, a powerful army, which is not paid, and only fight for their
country.

  
  
  This is the exact picture of the Swiss Confederation, dildo
  for those who love freedom, consoling for the philosopher,
  for the state to the political.
  
  There are two difficult problems that I am currently in Switzerland,
  and the only ones that can be offered in contrast to their great
progress and remarkable institutions, pauperism, and religious indifference
that works its innumerable sects Protestant.

  
  
  The severe climate, poor extension of the territory, and modest public
  wealth of Switzerland, explains the pauperism, which exists,
  not by the law, no way, not because of his organization, but
  because Switzerland is poor, and because the climate is hard.
  Not in its social defects pauperism, no, it is a fatal consequence
that can go amenguando, as is done but can not be removed suddenly.

  Despite its large number of beggars, and his famous instruction,
  the criminal statistics is the shortest in Europe, not only compared
  to larger states, but also with those of less and equal population.

  Anyway pauperism in Switzerland is a difficult problem.
  
  The other is more general, and of great importance for the future
  of a people. I entered all the temples of different Protestant
  communions are in Switzerland, I attended to their ceremonies, I
have witnessed their feasts, and in all temples and everywhere I've
only found a terrible indifference, worse than the lack of belief:
people indifferent to religion could be complete by policy and in
morals, and that people would be lost.

  Pantheistic philosophy German, so popular in Switzerland, is
  the root cause of the religious indifference.
  
  Hopefully, this illness goes away, I hope so, and so desires, as
  a people so great and so wisely ruled, need to be preserved, to
  believe in God, dispenser of all good, and Father of all peoples.

And
  here ends my chapter on Switzerland, the people of my predilection
  and prosperity both of which interested me. God watch
  for independence from its soil!
  
  # England #.
  

  The impression that travelers get to London from time guided Paris,
  as I did, it's sad, really sad.
  
  The boisterous joy overflows everywhere in the lively capital
  of France, in a singular contrast with the cold and London gravity
  reserved. Upon arriving at Calais or Boulogne, begin to make
  out the hazy coast Albion.
  
  The journey from Paris to London, which takes place in the very short
  within twelve hours, it is nice and easy.

  Reflecting on the short distance between the two nations, it
  seems lies that are so pronounced and profound differences:
  nothing more certain, however: twelve hours away, mean another religion,
  another language, other customs, other character, other laws, another
family, another way of living.

  
  
  For those who love the study and carefully attempts to collect observations
of the life of a village offers, is extremely useful the trip to England.

The

  English people on the continent has only apologists or detractors:
some condemn their civilization, others commend and advocate, not
who manages to make a fair trial condemn the bad and applaud what
is good.

  
  

  I do not harbor the pretension to judge with complete accuracy the
  England nor the nature of this book is accommodated to a detainee
  study of their civilization, nor have I lived long enough in their
  breast so that it can assess with full knowledge of the
  facts.

  
  Nevertheless, and without in any way with the views issued to
  date on England without distinction prevention, and merely
  stated in a brief chapter, observations have taken place I do,
  and I'll trial on England with the same impartiality that
  I used to deal with the other nations I know. Or employ hard
  or issue ratings passionate praise, tell you what I have seen and
nothing more.

  
  
  It is a generally received opinion about, believe that the England
march at the head of civilization, not admitting I like theory, is
to assume that my views are not accepted by all, I shall unfold however,
with security are well founded.

  
  
  The first thing I hasten to record with satisfaction, is the admirable
  state of the family in England.

  This social institution, so eminent a principal basis people,
  is wisely understood and organized the other side of the Channel.

The
  English family, sure foundation of public morality, lives in the
  order and conditions: with its excellent conditions children good
education for society and good citizens for country.

  The legislature to organize a family home, with wise economy
  works for the company, which is its reflection. In the English
  family is something I do not want to see, as such laws are somewhat
  hard the condition of the woman, but in spite of everything,
  I can not but admire.
  
  Sitting these brief notes I have thought it necessary appropriate,
  before they lead the reader to England, we shall get going.

  
  
  I left Paris at eight o'clock in the night train service. At one
  am I arrived at Calais, while embarking on first: I made
  her journey to Dover in two hours, have felt the slightest discomfort.

  
  
  In Dover we scarcely registered luggage, gave us a document in
  order to leave England, saw our passports, we recovered the iron
  road, and at four hours enter London.

  
  
  Delicious is certainly the countryside that the traveler is from
  Dover to London. And abundant green pastures where grazing numerous
  flocks of sheep, decorate and embellish the landscape. Upon entering
  the huge city, that is, to reach London Bridge Pier, the train
  leading us, went through among five others who were marching
  in different directions, all with large number of cars, filled with
people.

  
  
  So prodigious activity, such a large number of railway lines starting
from a single point, gives an excellent idea industrial movement of
the English people.

  
  
  Tocoma accidentally enter city Sunday in the nebula, and the
  impression I got was that experienced all foreigners who come for
the first time in such a day; sad, bored.

  
  
  The Anglican church since the time of reform rules in a special way,
  prohibits their free fanaticism all life and movement all day Sunday.

  Ciérranse the Shops and offices of all kinds, ciérranse the
  public facilities, everything closes, except for clubs and taverns,
  where for some time in the afternoon uncover the bottles and
  open lips.
  
  Contrasts like those I saw in London, does not offer any nation in
  the world.

  On Sunday, the day of silence and recojimiento, where everything
  is closed, in which no Entertainment, in which anything
  can be played to the cafes, the I've seen day in the gardens of Cremorne
Gardens, the impudence the most blatant: in the same site had no music
playground nor had dancing because it was Sunday, but is no less true
that notwithstanding the official religion, public women walked by
hundreds, offending morality outrageously public.

  In London, on Sunday, you must eat bread Eve because it can not
  be cooked in such a day.
  
  During my stay in London in July 1855 took place famous scene in Hyde
Park, new in its genre.

  Police groups dissolved delivering many blows and making
  Prisons: the people on the other hand, was content to whistle
  to the policemen and resist a little. The bill that had been submitted
  parliament, banning the drinks to the people on the
  day of Sunday, only a week in which it rests, and which has
  closed libraries and the same crystal palace where could
  learn something, the bill that denies the people what aristocracy
is granted profusely [16], this bill say that village meetings occurred
in the park [17], the scenes with the police, and fear of the nobles,
was withdrawn before discussed.

  
  
  The nobility of England, which has the monopoly scandal wealth,
  power, welfare and royalties all began on that day to know that
  his reign may end. The social organization of the English people,
  their practical life I seen, the thousands upon thousands of barriers
  that separate you from the aristocracy, these inequalities insulting
  that there are, those privileges, laws that destroy social
  equality attack human dignity and flatter the pride of a few,
  all that old English building, almost feudal, in spite of all
  make speeches around the world, saying that England march at the
head of civilization, may drop a day in chips, to ax revolutionary
impulses, impulses to of a movement, perhaps nearest to which almost
inevitably everyone thinks.

   How to outwit the examiner is
the one aim of both the teacher and the examinee; and as the teacher is presumably older, wiser,
and far more skilful at the examination game than his pupil, the duty of thinking--of planning,
of contriving, and even (in the deeper sense of the word) of studying--necessarily devolves
on the former; and the latter, instead of relying upon himself and learning to use his own
wits and resources, becomes more and more helpless and resourceless, and gradually ceases to
take any interest in the work that he is doing, for its own sake, his chief, if not his sole,
concern being to outwit the examiner and pass a successful examination. (One frequently meets
with clever University students who, having read a certain book for a certain examination and
had no question set from it, regard the time given to the study of it as wasted, and have no
compunction about expressing this opinion!) If these are evils incidental--I might almost say
essential--to the examination of adult scholars, it stands to reason that they will be greatly
aggravated when the examinees are young children. For the younger the child, the more ignorant
and helpless he is (however full he may be of latent capacity and spontaneous activity), and
therefore the more ready he is to lean upon his teacher and to look to him for instruction
and direction.

The desire to outwit, and so win approval from, an examiner, is not the only reason why the
teacher so often reduces to an absurdity the traditional distrust of the child. His own inability
to educate the child on other lines is another and not less potent reason. The examination
régime to which he has been subjected himself, partly, perhaps, under compulsion, but also
and in larger measure of his own choice, deprives him, as we have already seen, of much of
his freedom, initiative, and responsibility; and that being so, it is inevitable that within
the limited range of free action which is left to him, he in his turn should devote his energies
to depriving his pupils of the same vital qualities, and to making them the helpless creatures
of habit and routine which he himself is tending to become. To give free play to a child's
natural faculties and so lead him into the path of self-development and self-education, demands
a high degree of intelligence on the part of the teacher, combined with the constant exercise
of thought and initiative within a wide range of free action. If you tell a teacher in precise
detail, whether directly or indirectly, that he is to do this thing, and that thing, and the
next thing, he will not be able to carry out your instructions, except by telling his pupils,
again in precise detail, that they are to do this thing, and that thing, and the next thing.
He cannot help himself. He has no choice in the matter. He is the victim of a quasi-physical
compulsion. The pressure which is put upon him will inevitably be transmitted by him and through
him to his pupils, and will inevitably be multiplied (the relations between teacher and pupil
being what they are) in the course of transmission.

There is nothing that a healthy child hates so much as to have the use of his natural faculties
and the play of his natural energies unduly restricted by parental or pedagogic control. We
may therefore take for granted that the child will find himself ill at ease in a school in
which every vital activity is rigidly repressed, and in which he spends most of his time in
sitting still and waiting for orders. Nor will it add to his happiness to live habitually in
an atmosphere of constraint, of austerity, of suspicion, of gloom. But I need not take pains
to prove that education, as it is conducted in Western countries, is profoundly repugnant to
the natural instincts of the healthy child. For that is precisely what it is intended to be.
The idea of a child enjoying his "lessons" is foreign to the genius of the West. Dominated
as he is by the inherited conviction that Man's nature is corrupt and that his instincts are
evil, the Western teacher has set himself the task of doing violence to the child's instinctive
tendencies, of thwarting his inborn desires, of working against the grain of his nature. He
has expected the child to rebel against this régime, and he has welcomed his rebellion as a
proof of the corruption of Man's nature, and therefore of the soundness of the traditional
philosophy of education.

But if education is hateful to the child, how is he to be induced to submit to being educated?
Some co-operation on his part will be necessary. How is it to be secured? By precisely the
same methods as those by which Man, in the course of his education, has been induced to co-operate
with God. The child, like Man, is to be "saved"--to be rescued from Nature and from himself--by
being led into the path of mechanical obedience. The child, like Man, is to be kept in that
path by a system of external rewards and punishments. If he will not do what he is told to
do, he will be punished by his teacher. If he will do what he is told to do, he will escape
punishment, and he may possibly, when his merits have accumulated sufficiently, receive a reward.
In the education of Man by the God of Israel the balance between rewards and punishments has
been kept fairly even. Hell has been balanced by Heaven, calamity by prosperity, death by life.
It has been far otherwise with the child. His punishments have been many, and his rewards few.
At the present day men are more humane than they used to be; and corporal punishment, though
still resorted to, counts for less than it used to do in the training of the child. But punishments
of various kinds are still regarded as indispensable adjuncts to school discipline; and it
is still taken for granted in far too many schools that the fear of punishment and the hope
of reward are the only effective motives to educational effort.

It is difficult to say which of the two motives is the more likely to demoralise the child.
A régime of punishment is not necessarily a régime of cruelty; but punishment can scarcely
fail to savour of severity, and when the doctrine of original sin is in the ascendant, and
the inborn wilfulness and stubbornness of the child are postulated by his teachers, the indefinable
boundary line between severity and cruelty is easily crossed. Of the tendency of cruelty to
demoralise its victims I have already spoken. But the effect of punishment on the child must
be considered in its relation to his mental, as well as to his moral, development. Scholarships,
prizes, high places in class, and other such rewards are for the few, not for the many. If
the many are to be roused to exertion, the fear of punishment (in the hypothetical absence
of any other motive) must be ever before them. What will happen to them when that motive is
withdrawn, as it will be when the child becomes the adolescent? His education has been distasteful
to the child, partly because his teachers have assumed from the outset that it would be and
must be so, but chiefly because in their ignorance they have taken pains to make it so, his
school life having been so ordered as to combine the maximum of strain with the maximum of
ennui. His teachers have done everything for him, except those mechanical and monotonous exercises
which they felt they might trust him to do by himself. Some of his mental faculties have become
stunted and atrophied through lack of exercise. Others have been allowed to wither in the bud.
If he happens to belong to the "masses," he will have completed his school education at the
age of thirteen or fourteen. What will he do with himself when there is no longer a teacher
at his elbow to tell him what to do and how to do it, and to stand over him (should this be
necessary) while he does it? Why should he go on with studies which he has neither the inclination
nor the ability to pursue, and which, in point of fact, he has never really begun? And why
should he continue to exert himself when, owing to his being at last beyond the reach of punishment,
the need for him to do so--the only need which he has been accustomed to regard as imperative--has
ceased to exist?

The objections to the hope of reward as a motive to educational effort are of another kind.
Prizes, as I have said, are for the few; and it is the consciousness of being one of the elect
which invests the winning of a prize with its chief attraction. The prize system makes a direct
appeal to the vanity and egoism of the child. It encourages him to think himself better than
others, to pride himself on having surpassed his class-mates and shone at their expense. The
clever child is to work hard, not because knowledge is worth winning for its own sake and for
his own sake, but because it will be pleasant for him to feel that he has succeeded where others
have failed. It is a just reproach against the examination system that while, by its demand
for outward results it does its best to destroy individuality, the essence of which is sincerity
of expression, it also does its best to foster individualism, by appealing, with its offer
of prizes and other "distinctions," to those instincts which predispose each one of us to affirm
and exalt that narrow, commonplace, superficial aspect of his being which he miscalls his self.

Thus the hope of reward tends to demoralise the clever child by making an appeal to basely
selfish motives. At the same time it is probably deluding him with the belief that he has more
capacity than he really has. If the examination system is, as I have suggested, the keystone
of the arch of Western education, it is by means of the prize system that the keystone has
been firmly cemented into its place. An examination which had no rewards or distinctions to
offer to the competitors would not be an effective stimulus to exertion. That being so, our
educationalists have taken care that to every examination some external reward or rewards shall
be attached. Even if there are no material prizes to appeal to the child's cupidity, there
is always the class-list, with its so-called "order of merit," to appeal to his vanity. Our
educationalists have also taken care that during the periods of childhood, adolescence, and
even early maturity, every prize that is offered for competition shall be awarded after a formal
examination and on the consideration of its tabulated results. The appointments in the Home,
Colonial, and Indian Civil Services, the promotions in the Army and Navy, the fellowships and
scholarships at the Universities, the scholarships at the Public Schools, the medals, books,
and other prizes that are offered to school-children, are all awarded to those who have distinguished
themselves in the corresponding examinations, no other qualification than that of ability to
shine in an examination being looked for in the competitors. There are, no doubt, exceptions
to these general statements, but they are so few that they scarcely count. We have seen that
the ascendency of the examination system in our schools and colleges is largely due to the
vulgar confusion between information and knowledge; and we have also seen that the examination
system reacts upon that fatal confusion and tends to strengthen and perpetuate it. If, then,
the effect of the prize system is to consolidate the authority of the formal examination and
intensify its influence, we shall not go far wrong in assuming that in the various competitions
for prizes the confusion between information and knowledge will play a vital part. And, in
point of fact, the cleverness which enables the child--I ignore for the moment the adolescent
and the adult student--to win prizes of various kinds is found, when carefully analysed, to
resolve itself, in nine cases out of ten, into the ability to receive, retain, and retail information.
As this particular, ability is but a small part of that mental capacity which education is
supposed to train, it is clear that the clever child who gets to the top of his class, and
wins prizes in so doing, may easily be led to over-estimate his powers, and to take himself
far more seriously than it is either right or wise of him to do. His over-confidence may for
a time prove an effective stimulus to exertion; but the exertion will probably be misdirected;
and later on, when he finds himself confronted by the complex realities of life, and when problems
have to be solved which demand the exercise of other faculties than that of memory, his belief
in himself, which is the outcome of a false criterion of merit, may induce him to undertake
what he cannot accomplish, and may lead at last--owing to his having lost touch with the actualities
of things--to his complete undoing.

And as under the prize system the child who is high in his class is apt to over-estimate his
ability, so the child who is low in his class is apt to accept the verdict of the class-list
as final, and to regard himself as a failure because he lacks the superficial ability which
enables a child to shine on the examination day. Again and again it happens that the dunce
of his class goes to the front in the battle of life. But numerous and significant as these
cases are, they are unfortunately exceptions to a general rule. For one dunce who emerges from
the depths of "apparent failure," there are ten who go under after a more or less protracted
struggle, and sink contentedly to the bottom. The explanation of this is that though every
child has capacity (apart, of course, from the congenital idiot and the mentally "defective"),
there are many kinds of capacity which a formal examination fails to discover, and which the
education that is dominated by the prize system fails to develop. The child whose particular
kind of capacity does not count, either in the ordinary school lesson or on the examination
day, is not aware that he is capable; and as he is always low on the class-list, and is therefore
regarded by his teachers as dull and stupid, he not unnaturally acquiesces in the current and
apparently authoritative estimate, of his powers, and, losing heart about himself, ends by
becoming the failure which he has been taught to believe himself to be. In brief, while the
prize system breeds ungrounded and therefore dangerous self-esteem in the child whom it labels
as bright, it breeds ungrounded but not the less fatal self-distrust in the child whom it labels
as dull.

We have seen that there comes a time in the life of every man when the fear of punishment ceases
to act as a stimulus to educational exertion. It is the same with the hope of reward. Examinations,
and the prizes which reward success in examinations, are for the young. What will happen to
the prize-winner when there are no more prizes for him to compete for? Will he continue to
pursue knowledge for its own sake? Alas! he has never pursued it for its own sake. He has pursued
it for the sake of the prizes and other honours which it brought him. When he has won his last
prize the chances are that he will lose all interest in that branch of learning in which he
achieved distinction, unless, indeed, he has to earn his livelihood by teaching it. Of the
scores of young men who distinguish themselves in "Classics" at Oxford and Cambridge, how many
will continue to study the classical writers when they have gained the "Firsts" for which they
worked so diligently? Apart from those who are going to teach Classics in the Public Schools
or Universities, a mere handful,--one in ten perhaps, though that is probably an extravagant
estimate. And yet the poets, philosophers, and historians whom they have studied are amongst
the greatest that the world has produced. What is it, then, that kills, in nine cases out of
ten, the classical student's interest in the masterpieces of antiquity? The obvious fact that
he was never interested in them for their own sakes--that he studied them, not in order to
enjoy them or profit by them, but in order to pass an examination in them, of which he might
be able to say in after years:

  "I am named and known by that hour's feat,
  There took my station and degree."

How many Wranglers, other than those who have or will become schoolmasters or college tutors,
continue to study mathematics? How many of the First Classmen in Science, History, Law, and
other Honour "Schools" continue to study their respective subjects? In every case an utterly
insignificant minority.

But if the prize system does this to the young man of twenty-two or twenty-three, if it kills
his interest in learning, if it makes him register an inward vow never again to open the books
which he has crammed so successfully for his examinations, what may it be expected to do to
the child whose school education comes to an end when he is only thirteen or fourteen years
old? When, with the fear of punishment, the complementary hope of reward is withdrawn from
him, is it reasonable to expect him to continue his education, to continue to apply himself
to subjects with which his acquaintance has been entirely formal and superficial, and which
he has never been allowed to digest and assimilate? The utter indifference of the average ex-elementary
scholar to literature, to history, to geography, to science, to music, to art, is the world-wide
answer to this question.

For what is, above all, hateful in any scheme of rewards and punishments, when applied to the
school life of the young, is that it wholly externalises what is really an inward and spiritual
process, the evolution of the youthful mind. Just as in the sphere of religion it is postulated
as a self-evident truth that righteousness is not its own reward, nor iniquity its own punishment,--so
in the sphere of education it is postulated as a self-evident truth, that knowledge is not
its own reward, nor ignorance its own punishment. And just as in the sphere of religion the
appeal to Man's selfish hopes and ignoble fears has generated a radical misconception of the
meaning and purpose of righteousness, which has caused his moral and spiritual energies to
be diverted into irreligious or anti-religious channels, to the detriment of his inward and
spiritual growth,--so in the sphere of education the appeal to the child's selfish desires
and ignoble fears has generated a radical misconception of the meaning and purpose of knowledge,
which has caused his mental energies to be diverted into uneducational channels, to the detriment
of his mental growth. In each case the scheme of rewards and punishments, acting like an immense
blister, when applied to a healthy body, draws to the surface the life-blood which ought to
nourish and purify the vital organs of the soul (or mind), thereby impoverishing the vital
organs, and inflaming and disfiguring the surface. For if the surface life, with its outward
and visible "results," is to be happy and productive, the health of the vital organs must be
carefully maintained. This is the fundamental truth which those who control education in the
West have persistently ignored.

The system of education which I have tried to describe is a practical embodiment of the ideas
that govern the popular philosophy of the West. One who had studied that philosophy, and who
wished to ascertain what provision it made for the education of the young, would in the course
of his inquiry construct a priori the precise system of education which is in vogue in all
Western countries. The supposed relation between God and his fallen and rebellious offspring,
Man, is obviously paralleled by the relation between the teacher and the child; and it is therefore
clear that the supposed dealings of God with Man ought to be paralleled by the dealings of
the teacher with the child. That they are so paralleled--that salvation by machinery has found
its most exact counterpart in education by machinery--the history of education has made abundantly
clear.

Whatever else the current system of education may do to the child, there is one thing which
it cannot fail to do to him,--to blight his mental growth. What particular form or forms this
blighting influence may take will depend in each particular case on a variety of circumstances.
Experience tells us that what happens in most cases is that Western education strangles some
faculties, arrests the growth of others, stunts the growth of a third group, and distorts the
growth of a fourth.

Is it intended that education should do all this? This question is not so paradoxical as it
sounds. My primary assumption that the function of education is to foster growth may be a truism
in the eyes of those who agree with it; but Western orthodoxy, just so far as it is self-conscious
and sincere, must needs repudiate it as a pestilent heresy. For if what grows is intrinsically
evil, what can growth do for it but carry it towards perdition?

What is it that grows? It is time that I should ask myself this question. My answer to it is,
in brief, that it is the whole human being that grows, the whole nature of the child,--body,
mind, heart and soul. When I use these familiar words, I am far from wishing to suggest that
human nature is divisible into four provinces or compartments. In every stage of its development
human nature is a living and indivisible whole. Each of the four words stands for a typical
aspect of Man's being, but one of the four may also be said to stand for the totality of Man's
being,--the word soul. For it is the soul which manifests as body, which thinks as mind, which
feels and loves as heart, and which is what it is--though not perhaps what it really or finally
is--as soul.

The function of education, then, is to foster the growth of the child's whole nature, or, in
a word, of his soul. I ought, perhaps, to apologise for my temerity in using this now discredited
word. In the West Man does not believe in the soul. How can he? He does not believe in God
either as the eternal source or as the eternal end of his own nature. It follows that he does
not and cannot believe in the unity of his own being. He has been taught that his nature is
corrupt, evil, godless; and that the "soul," which is somehow or other attached to his fallen
nature during his "earthly pilgrimage," was supernaturally created at the moment of his birth.
He is now beginning to reject this conception of the soul; but he cannot yet rise to the higher
conception of it as the vital essence of his being, as the divine germ in virtue of which his
nature is no mere aggregate of parts or faculties, but a living whole. So deeply rooted in
the Western mind is disbelief in the reality of the soul that it is difficult to use the word,
when speaking to a Western audience, without exposing oneself to the charge of insincerity,--not
to speak of the graver charge of "bad form." A savour either of cant or gush hangs about the
word, and is not easily detached from it. That being so, it must be clearly understood that
I mean by the soul the nature of Man considered in its unity and totality,--no more than this,
and no less.

In the opening paragraph of this book I said that some of my readers would regard my fundamental
assumption as a truism, others as a challenge, and others again as a wicked heresy. Whether
it shall be regarded as a truism, a challenge, or a heresy, will depend on the way in which
it is worded. To say that the function of education is to foster the growth of human nature,
is to invite condemnation from those who regard human nature as ruined and corrupt. To say
that the function of education is to foster the growth of the soul, is to issue a challenge
to Western civilisation, which is based on the belief that the end of Man's being is not the
growth of his soul, but the growth of his balance at the bank of material prosperity. To say
that the function of education is to foster the growth of certain faculties, is to insist on
what no one who had given his mind to the matter would care to deny. For even the orthodox,
who regard Man's nature in its totality as intrinsically evil, admit without hesitation that
there are faculties in Man which can be and ought to be trained; while the "man of the world,"
whom we may regard as the most typical product of Western civilisation, is clamorous in his
demand that education shall foster the growth of certain mental faculties which will enable
the child to become an efficient clerk or workman, and so contribute to the enrichment of his
employer and the community to which he belongs.

The Western educationalist will admit, then, that the function of education is to foster growth;
and if you ask him what it is that grows or ought to grow under education's fostering care,
he will give you a long list of faculties--mental, for the most part, but also moral and physical--and
then break off under the impression that he has set education an adequate and a practicable
task. But he has set it an inadequate and an impracticable task. For behind all the faculties
that he enumerates dwells the living reality which he cannot bring himself to believe in,--the
soul. And because he cannot bring himself to believe in the soul, he deprives the faculties
which he proposes to cultivate of the very qualities which make them most worthy of cultivation,--of
their interrelation, their interdependence, their organic unity. In other words he devitalises
each of them by cutting it off from the life which is common to all of them, and so paralyses
its capacity for growing in the very act of taking thought for its growth. He forgets that
every faculty which is worth cultivating both draws life from, and contributes life to, the
general life of the growing child. He forgets that the child himself--"the living soul"--is
growing in and through the growth of each of his opening faculties; and that unless, when a
faculty seems to be growing, the life of the child is at once expressing itself in and renewing
itself through the process of its growth, its semblance of growth is a pure illusion, the results
that are produced being in reality as fraudulent as artificial flowers on a living rose-bush.

But the whole question may be looked at from another point of view. Let us assume, for argument's
sake, that the function of education is to train, or foster the growth of, certain faculties,
which are mainly though not exclusively mental, and that when those faculties have been duly
trained the teacher has done his work. What, then, are the faculties which education is supposed
to train? In my attempt to answer this question I will confine myself to the elementary school,--the
only school which I can pretend to know well. A glance at the time-table of an ordinary elementary
school might suggest to us that there were two chief groups of faculties to be trained--those
which perceive and those which express, those which take in and those which give out. When
such subjects as History, Geography, or Science are being taught, the child's perceptive faculties
are being trained. When such subjects as Composition, Drawing or Singing are being taught,
the child's expressive faculties are being trained. So at least one might be disposed to assume.

In what relation do the perceptive faculties stand to the expressive? Is it possible to cultivate
either group without regard to the other? It must be admitted that the methods employed in
the ordinary elementary school seem to be governed by the assumption that the perceptive and
the expressive faculties are two distinct groups which admit of being separately trained. In
the ordinary Drawing lesson, for example, the child is trying to express what he does not even
pretend to have perceived; whereas in the ordinary History or Science lesson the process is
reversed, and the child pretends to perceive what he makes no attempt to express.

But is the assumption correct? Do the two groups of faculties admit of being separately trained?
Is it possible to devote this hour or half-hour to the training of perception, and that to
the training of expression? Surely not. Perception and expression are not two faculties, but
one. Each is the very counterpart and correlate, each is the very life and soul, of the other.
Each, when divorced from the other, ceases to be its own true self. When perception is real,
living, informed with personal feeling, it must needs find for itself the outlet of expression.
When expression is real, living, informed with personal feeling, perception--the child's own
perception of things--must needs be behind it. More than that. The perceptive faculties (at
any rate in childhood) grow through the interpretation which expression gives them, and in
no other way. And the expressive faculties grow by interpreting perception, and in no other
way. The child who tries to draw what he sees is training his power of observation, not less
than his power of expression. As he passes and repasses between the object of his perception
and his representation of it, there is a continuous gain both to his vision and to his technique.
The more faithfully he tries to render his impression of the object, the more does that impression
gain in truth and strength; and in proportion as the impression becomes truer and stronger,
so does the rendering of it become more masterly and more correct. So, again, if a man tries
to set forth in writing his views about some difficult problem--social, political, metaphysical,
or whatever it may be--the very effort that he makes to express himself clearly and coherently
will tend to bring order into the chaos and light into the darkness of his mind, to widen his
outlook on his subject, to deepen his insight into it, to bring new aspects of it within the
reach of his conscious thought. And here, as in the case of the child who tries to draw what
he sees, there is a continuous reciprocal action between perception and expression, in virtue
of which each in turn helps forward the evolution of the other. Even in so abstract and impersonal
a subject as mathematics, the reaction of expression on perception is strong and salutary.
The student who wishes to master a difficult piece of bookwork should try to write it out in
his own words; in the effort to set it out concisely and lucidly he will gradually perfect
his apprehension of it. Were he to solve a difficult problem, he would probably regard his
grasp of the solution as insecure and incomplete until he had succeeded in making it intelligible
to the mind of another. When perception is deeply tinged with emotion, as when one sees what
is beautiful, or admires what is noble, the attempt to express it in language, action, or art,
seems to be dictated by some inner necessity of one's nature. The meaning of this is that the
perception itself imperatively demands expression in order that, in and through the struggle
of the artistic consciousness to do full justice to it, it may gradually realise its hidden
potentialities, discover its inner meaning, and find its true self.

Once we realise that expression is the other self of perception, it becomes permissible for
us to say that to train the perceptive faculties--the faculties by means of which Man lays
hold upon the world that surrounds him, and draws it into himself and makes it his own--is
the highest achievement of the teacher's art. Even from the point of view of my primary truism,
this conception of the meaning and purpose of education holds good. For according to that truism
the business of the teacher is to foster the growth of the child's soul; and the soul grows
by the use of its perceptive faculties, which, by enabling it to take in and assimilate an
ever-widening environment, cause a gradual enlargement of its consciousness and a proportionate
expansion of its life. But the perceptive faculties in their turn grow by expressing themselves;
and unless they are allowed to express themselves--unless the child is allowed to express himself
(for expression, if it is genuine, is always self-expression)--their growth will be arrested,
and the mission which all educationalists assign to education will not have been fulfilled.

The question is, then, Does the system of education which prevails in all Western countries
provide for self-expression on the part of the child?

FOOTNOTES:

[5] I mean by the words "original sin" what the plain, unsophisticated, believing Christian
means by them. A modern poet, in a moment of impulsive orthodoxy, praises Christianity because it

      "taught original sin,
  The corruption of man's heart ..."

This definition is sufficiently accurate. How far the popular interpretation of the doctrine
of original sin coincides with the latest theological refinement of the doctrine, I cannot
pretend to say. When it finds it convenient to explain things away, theology, like Voltaire's
Minor Prophet, "est capable de tout"; and the need for reconciling the doctrine of original
sin with the teaching of modern science has in recent years laid a heavy tax on its ingenuity.

CHAPTER III

A FAMILIAR TYPE OF SCHOOL[6]

In this chapter I shall have in my mind a type of school which is familiar to all who are interested
in elementary education. What percentage of the schools of England are of that particular type
I cannot pretend to say. In the days of payment by results the percentage was unquestionably
very high. The system under which we all worked made that inevitable. The days of payment by
results are over, but their consequences are with us still. The pioneer is abroad in the land,
but he has had, and still has, formidable difficulties to overcome. The percentage of routine-ridden
schools is considerably lower than it used to be, and it is falling from year to year. Of this
there can be no doubt. Each teacher in turn who reads this chapter will, I hope, be able to
say that the school which is in my mind is not his. But I can assure him that there are thousands
of schools in which all or most of the evils on which I am about to comment are still rampant;
and I will add, for his consolation, that it would be a miracle if this were not so. The child
who attends school regularly and punctually, as many children do, will have been the victim
of upwards of two thousand "Scripture lessons" by the time he leaves school.

The question of religious education in elementary schools has long been the centre of a perfect
whirlpool of controversial talk. The greater part of this talk is, to speak plainly, blatant
cant. Every candidate for a seat in the House of Commons thinks it incumbent upon him to say
something about religious education, but not one in a hundred of them has ever been present
in an elementary school while religious instruction was being given. The Bishops of the Established
Church wax eloquent in the House of Lords over the wickedness of a "godless education" and
the virtue of "definite dogmatic teaching," but it may be doubted if there is a Bishop in the
House who has in recent years sat out a Scripture lesson in a Church of England school. It
would be well if all who talked publicly about religious education could be sentenced to devote
a month to the personal study of religious instruction as it is ordinarily given in elementary
schools. At the end of the month they would be wiser and sadder men, and in future they would
probably talk less about religious education and think more.

The Scripture lesson, as it is familiarly called, is supposed to make the children of England
religious, in the special sense which each church or sect attaches to that word,--to make them
good Catholics, good Churchmen, good Wesleyans, good Bible Christians, good Jews. But as those
who are most in earnest about religion, and most sincere in their religious convictions, unite
in assuring us that England is relapsing into paganism, it may be doubted if the religious
education of the elementary school child--a process which has been going on for half a century
or more--has been entirely successful.

They have good ground for their subconscious distrust of it. We have seen that the vulgar confusion
between information and knowledge is at the root of much that is unsound in education. There
is no branch of education in which this confusion is so fallacious or so fatal as in that which
is called religious. The process of converting information into knowledge is a comparatively
easy one when we are dealing with matters of detailed fact. Information as to the dates of
the kings of England, as to the bays and capes of the British Isles, as to the exports and
imports of Liverpool, as to the weights and measures of this or that country, is in each case
readily convertible into knowledge of the given facts. But directly we get away from mere facts,
and begin to concern ourselves with what is large, vague, subtle, and obscure,--with forces,
for example, with causes, with laws, with principles,--the difficulty of collecting adequate
and appropriate information about our subject becomes great, and the difficulty of converting
such information into knowledge becomes greater still. Information as to the dates and names
of the English kings, and other historical facts, is easily converted into knowledge of those
facts, but it is not easily converted into knowledge of English history. In each case a sense
must be evolved if the information is to be assimilated, and so converted into real knowledge;
and though it is true that the sense in question grows, in part at least, by feeding on appropriate
information, it is equally true that if, owing to defective training, the sense remains undeveloped,
the information supplied will remain unassimilated, and the tacit assumption that the possession
of information is equivalent to the possession of real knowledge will delude both the teacher
and the taught. It is possible, as one knows from experience, for a boy to have mastered all
the arithmetical rules and tables with which his master has supplied him, and to have all his
measures and weights at his fingers' ends, and yet to be so destitute of the arithmetical sense
as to give without a moment's misgiving an entirely nonsensical answer to a simple arithmetical
problem,--to say, for example, as I have known half a class of boys say, that a room is five
shillings and sixpence wide. Such a boy, though his head may be stuffed with arithmetical information,
has no knowledge of arithmetic.

The gulf between memorised information and real knowledge becomes deep and wide in proportion
as the subject matter is one which demands for its effective apprehension either intellectual
effort or emotional insight. When both these variables are demanded, the gulf widens and deepens
at a ratio which is "geometrical" rather than "arithmetical"; and when a high degree of each
is demanded, the separation between knowledge and information is complete.

The Art Master who should try to train the æsthetic sense of his pupils by making them learn
by heart a string of propositions in which he had set out the artistic merits of sundry masterpieces
of painting and sculpture, would expose himself to well-merited ridicule. So would the teacher
who should try to train the scientific sense of his pupils by no other method than that of
making them learn scientific formulæ by heart. What shall we say, then, of the teacher who
tries to train the religious sense of his pupils by supplying them with rations of theological
and theologico-historical information? Whatever else we may mean by the word God, we mean what
is infinitely great, and therefore beyond the reach of human thought, and we mean what is "most
high," and therefore beyond the reach of the heart's desire. It follows that for knowledge
of God the maximum of intellectual effort is needed, in conjunction with the maximum of emotional
insight; and it follows further that the gulf between knowledge of God and information about
God is unimaginably wide and deep,--so wide and so deep that out of our very attempts to span
or fathom it the doubt at last arises whether the idea of acquiring information about God may
not, after all, be the idlest of dreams.

Nevertheless the pastors and masters of our elementary schools are, with few exceptions, engaged,
sanctâ simplicitate, in trying to make the children of England religious by cramming them with
theological and theologico-historical information,--information as to the nature and attributes
of God, as to the inner constitution of his being, as to his relations to Man and the Universe,
as to his reported doings in the past. And in order that the giving, receiving, and retaining
of this unverifiable information may be regarded by all concerned as the central feature of
the Scripture lesson, to the neglect of all the other aspects of religious education, the spiritual
"powers that be" (and also, I am told, some of the Local Education Authorities) have decreed
that the schools under their jurisdiction shall be subjected to a yearly examination in "religious
knowledge" at the hands of a "Diocesan Inspector," or some other official.

To one who has convinced himself, as I have, that a right attitude towards the thing known
is of the essence of knowledge, and that reverence and devotion--to go no further--are of the
essence of a right attitude towards God, the idea of holding a formal examination in religious
knowledge seems scarcely less ridiculous than the idea of holding a formal examination in unselfishness
or brotherly love. The phrase "to examine in religious knowledge" has no meaning for me. The
verb is out of all relation to its indirect object. What the Diocesan Inspector attempts to
do cannot possibly be done. The test of religious knowledge is necessarily practical and vital,
not formal and mechanical. Even if I were to admit, for argument's sake, that the information
with which we cram the elementary school child between 9.5 and 9.45 a.m. had been supernaturally
communicated by God to Man, my general position would remain unaffected. For experience has
amply proved that a child--or, for the matter of that, a man--may know much theology and even
be "mighty in the Scriptures," and yet show by his conduct that his religious sense has not
been awakened, and that therefore he has no knowledge of God; just as we have seen that a child
may know by heart all arithmetical rules and tables, and yet show, by his helplessness in the
face of a simple problem, that his arithmetical sense has not been awakened, and that therefore
he has no knowledge of arithmetic.

The time given to religious instruction is, to make a general statement, the only part of the
session in which the children are being prepared for a formal external examination. That being
so, it is no matter for wonder that many of the glaring faults of method and organisation which
the examination system fostered in our elementary schools between the years 1862 and 1895,
and which are now being abandoned, however slowly, reluctantly, and sporadically, during the
hours of "secular" instruction, still find a refuge in the Scripture lesson. Overgrouping of
classes, overcrowding of school-rooms, collective answering, collective repetition, scribbling
on slates, and other faults with which inspectors were only too familiar in bygone days, are
still rampant while religious instruction is being given.[7] The Diocesan Inspector is an examiner,
pure and simple, and is never present when the Scripture lesson is in progress. Whether he
would find anything to criticise if he were present, may be doubted. I have frequently been
told by teachers that it is his demand for a good volume of sound, when he is catechising the
children, which keeps alive during the Scripture lesson the pestilent habit of collective answering,
in defiance of the obvious fact that what is everybody's business is nobody's business, and
that an experienced bell-wether can easily give a lead to a whole class. An inconvenient train
service may compel H.M. Inspector to be present when religious instruction is being given;
but though he may find much to deplore in what he sees and hears, he must abstain from criticism,
and be content to play the rôle of the man who looks over a hedge while a horse is being stolen.

In most elementary schools religion is taught on an elaborate syllabus which is imposed on
the teacher by an external authority, and which therefore tends to destroy his freedom and
his interest in the work. It is not his business to take thought for the religious training
of his pupils, to consider how the religious instinct may best be awakened in them, how their
latent knowledge of God may best be evolved. His business is to prepare them for their yearly
examination, to cram them with catechisms, hymns, texts, and collects, and with stories of
various kinds,--stories from the folk-lore of Israel, from the history of the Jews, from the
Gospel narratives. To appeal to the reasoning powers of his pupils would be foreign to his
aim, and foreign, let me say in passing, to the whole tradition of religious teaching in the
West. The burden of preparing for an examination, whatever the examination may be, falls mainly
on the faculty of memory. This is a rule to which there are very few exceptions. When the examination
is one in "religious knowledge," the burden of preparing for it falls wholly on the faculty
of memory. To appeal to the reasoning powers of the scholars might conceivably provoke them
to ask inconvenient questions, and might even give rise to a spirit of rationalism in the school,--the
spirit which "orthodoxy" has always regarded as the very antipole to religious faith.

But what of the child's emotional faculties? Will not the beauty of the Gospel stories, will
not the sublimity of the Old Testament poetry, make their own appeal to these? They might do
so if they were allowed to exert their spiritual magnetism. But what chance have they? The
chilling shadow of the impending examination falls upon them and cancels their educative influence.
It is not because the Gospel stories are full of beauty and spiritual meaning that the child
has to learn them, but because he will be questioned on them by the Diocesan Inspector. It
is not because certain passages from the Old Testament are poetry of a high order that the
child commits them to memory, but because he may have to repeat them to the Diocesan Inspector.
We cannot serve God and Mammon,--the God of poetry and the inward life, the Mammon of outward
results. The thing is not to be done, and the pretence of doing it is a mockery and a fraud.
The compulsory preparation of the plays of Shakespeare and other literary masterpieces for
a formal examination, too often gives the schoolboy, or the college student, a permanent distaste
for English literature. The study of the Ancient Classics for the Oxford "Schools" or the Cambridge
"Tripos" too often gives the studious undergraduate a permanent distaste for the literatures
of Greece and Rome. Does it not follow a fortiori that to cram a young child, for the purposes
of a formal examination, to cram him, year after year, with the idyllic stories of the New
Testament and the poetic beauties of the Old, will in all probability go a long way towards
blighting in the bud the child's latent capacity for responding to the appeal, not of the Bible
alone, but of spiritual poetry as such?

I do not wish to suggest that the religious instruction given in our elementary schools is
always formal and mechanical. There are teachers who can break through the toils of any system,
however deadly, and give life to their teaching in defiance of conditions which would paralyse
the energies of lesser men. As I write, I recall two teachers of elementary schools, who, in
spite of having to prepare their pupils for diocesan inspection, succeeded in quickening their
religious instincts into vital activity. The first was a schoolmaster,--a "strong Churchman,"
and a sincerely religious man. The second was a woman of genius, whose extraordinary sympathy
with and insight into the soul of the child, enabled her to give free play to all his expansive
instincts, and in and through the evolution of these to foster the growth of his religious
sense. I can never feel quite sure that this teacher fully realised how deeply, and yet healthily,
religious her children were. If she did not, I can but apply to her what Diderot said to David
the painter, when the latter confessed that he had not intended to produce some artistic effect
which the former had discovered in one of his pictures: "Quoi! c'est à votre insu? C'est encore
mieux." To make children religious without intending to do so is a profoundly significant achievement,
for it means that the fatal distinction between religious and secular education has been "utterly
abolished and destroyed."

Both these teachers fell, as it happened, under the ban of the Diocesan Inspector's displeasure.
The schoolmaster took over a school which was not only inefficient in the eyes of the Education
Department, in respect of instruction and discipline, but was also tainted in its upper classes
with moral depravity. He speedily restored it to efficiency, and reformed its moral tone. In
accomplishing these salutary changes, he relied mainly on an appeal which he made, in all manly
sincerity, to the religious sense of the older boys. The faith in human nature which prompted
him to make this appeal was justified by the response which it evoked. In less than a year
the school was transformed beyond recognition. In less than two years it was one of the best
in its county; indeed in respect of moral tone and religious atmosphere it was perhaps the
best. Meanwhile the work of cramming the children for the yearly diocesan examination must
have fallen into arrears; for the school, which under my friend's incompetent predecessor had
always been classed as "Excellent," sank to the level of "Good" in the year after he left,
and in the following year to the level of "Fair." Any one who has any acquaintance with the
reports of the Diocesan Inspector knows that the summary mark "Fair," when employed by him,
is equivalent to utter damnation.

The schoolmistress always had a horror of formal teaching, and a special horror of cramming
young children for formal examinations; and I can only wonder that her downfall was so long
delayed. Sooner or later, if she was to remain true to her own first principles, her work was
bound to incur the condemnation of the Diocesan Inspector.

Nevertheless, having read hundreds of diocesan reports, and realised how lavish of praise and
chary of blame the Diocesan Inspector usually is, I am inclined to suspect that the comparative
failure of the children on the examination day was not the sole or even the chief cause of
the severe censure which these two schools received. I am inclined to think that in each case
the inspector recognised in the exceptional religious vitality of a school which was deficient,
from his point of view, in religious knowledge, an implicit challenge to his own preconceived
notions, and that, without for a moment intending to be unfair, he responded to this challenge
by giving the school a strongly adverse report. Immorality and irreligiousness as such are
comparatively venial offences in the eyes of religious orthodoxy. What it cannot tolerate is
that men should be moral and religious in any but the "orthodox" ways.

Apart from these two exceptional cases, there are of course hundreds and even thousands of
teachers whose personal influence is a partial antidote to the numbing poison which is being
distilled but surely, from the daily Scripture lesson. But the net result of giving formal
and mechanical instruction on the greatest of all "great matters" is to depress the spiritual
vitality of the children of England to a point which threatens the extinction of the spiritual
life of the nation. My schoolmaster friend, who, besides being deeply religious (in the best
sense of the word), is a man of sound judgment and wide and varied experience, has more than
once assured me that religious instruction, as given in the normal Church of England school
(his experience has been limited to schools of that type), is paganising the people of England,--paganising
them because it presents religion to them in a form which they instinctively reject, accepting
it at first under compulsion, but turning away from it at last with deep-seated weariness and
permanent distaste.

That England is relapsing into paganism is, as we have seen, the sincere conviction of many
earnest Christians. Why this should be so, they cannot understand. In their desire to account
for so distressing a phenomenon, they will have recourse to any explanation, however far-fetched
and fantastic, rather than acknowledge that it is the Scripture lesson in the elementary school
which is paganising the masses. If the Churches could have their way, they would doubtless
try to mend matters by doubling the hours that are given to religious instruction, by making
the Diocesan Inspector's visit a half-yearly instead of a yearly function, and by cramming
the children for it with redoubled energy. In their refusal to reckon with human nature, they
are true to the first principles of their religion and their philosophy. But it is possible
to buy consistency at too high a price. The laws and tendencies of Nature are what they are;
and it is madness, not heroism, to ignore them. To those who refuse to reckon with human nature,
the day will surely come when human nature, evolving itself under the stress of its own forces
and in obedience to its own laws, will cease to take account of them.[8]

When the hands of the clock point to a quarter to ten, the religious education of the child
is over for the day, and his secular instruction has begun. That the religious education of
the child should be supposed to end when the Scripture lesson is over, is the last and strongest
proof of the fundamental falsity of that conception of religion on which, as on a quicksand,
his education, religious and secular, has been based.

 After Scripture comes as a rule Arithmetic. During the former lesson
the teacher, acting under compulsion, does his best, as we have seen,
to deaden the child's spiritual faculties. During the latter, he not
infrequently does his best to deaden the child's mental faculties. In
each case he is to be pitied rather than blamed. The conditions under
which he works, and has long worked, are too strong for him. If we
are to understand why secular instruction, as given in our elementary
schools, is what it is, we must go back for half a century or so and
trace the steps by which the "Education Department" forced elementary
education in England into the grooves in which, in many schools,
it is still moving, and from which even the most enlightened and
enterprising teachers find it difficult to escape.

In 1861 the Royal Commission (under the Duke of Newcastle as Chairman), which had been appointed
in 1858 in order to inquire into "the state of popular education in England, and as to the
measures required for the extension of sound and cheap elementary instruction to all classes
of the people," issued its report, in which it recommended inter alia that the Grants paid
to elementary schools should be expressly apportioned on the examination of individual children.
This recommendation was carried into effect in the Lowe Revised Code of 1862; and from that
date till 1895 a considerable part of the Grant received by each school was paid on the results
of a yearly examination held by H.M. Inspector on an elaborate syllabus, formulated by the
Department and binding on all schools alike. On the official report which followed this examination
depended the reputation and financial prosperity of the school, and the reputation and financial
prosperity of the teacher.[9] The consequent pressure on the teacher to exert himself was well-nigh
irresistible; and he had no choice but to transmit that pressure to his subordinates and his
pupils. The result was that in those days the average school was a hive of industry.

But it was also a hive of misdirected energy. The State, in prescribing a syllabus which was
to be followed, in all the subjects of instruction, by all the schools in the country, without
regard to local or personal considerations, was guilty of one capital offence. It did all his
thinking for the teacher. It told him in precise detail what he was to do each year in each
"Standard," how he was to handle each subject, and how far he was to go in it; what width of
ground he was to cover; what amount of knowledge, what degree of accuracy was required for
a "pass," In other words it provided him with his ideals, his general conceptions, his more
immediate aims, his schemes of work; and if it did not control his methods in all their details,
it gave him (by implication) hints and suggestions with regard to these on which he was not
slow to act; for it told him that the work done in each class and each subject would be tested
at the end of each year by a careful examination of each individual child; and it was inevitable
that in his endeavour to adapt his teaching to the type of question which his experience of
the yearly examination led him to expect, he should gradually deliver himself, mind and soul,
into the hands of the officials of the Department,--the officials at Whitehall who framed the
yearly syllabus, and the officials in the various districts who examined on it.

What the Department did to the teacher, it compelled him to do to the child. The teacher who
is the slave of another's will cannot carry out his instructions except by making his pupils
the slaves of his own will. The teacher who has been deprived by his superiors of freedom,
initiative, and responsibility, cannot carry out his instructions except by depriving his pupils
of the same vital qualities. The teacher who, in response to the deadly pressure of a cast-iron
system, has become a creature of habit and routine, cannot carry out his instructions except
by making his pupils as helpless and as puppet-like as himself.

But it is not only because mechanical obedience is fatal, in the long run, to mental and spiritual
growth, that the regulation of elementary or any other grade of education by a uniform syllabus
is to be deprecated. It is also because a uniform syllabus is, in the nature of things, a bad
syllabus, and because the degree of its badness varies directly with the area of the sphere
of educational activity that comes under its control. It is easy for us of the Twentieth Century
to laugh at the syllabuses which the Department issued, without misgiving, year after year,
in the latter half of the Nineteenth. We were all groping in the dark in those days; and our
whole attitude towards education was so fundamentally wrong that the absurdities of the yearly
syllabus were merely so much by-play in the evolution of a drama which was a grotesque blend
of tragedy and farce. But let us of the enlightened Twentieth Century try our hands at constructing
a syllabus on which all the elementary schools of England are to be prepared for a yearly examination,
and see if we can improve appreciably on the work of our predecessors. Some improvement there
would certainly be, but it would not amount to very much. Were the "Board" to re-institute
payment by results, and were they, with this end in view, to entrust the drafting of schemes
of work in the various subjects to a committee of the wisest and most experienced educationalists
in England, the resultant syllabus would be a dismal failure. For in framing their schemes
these wise and experienced educationalists would find themselves compelled to take account
of the lowest rather than of the highest level of actual educational achievement. What is exceptional
and experimental cannot possibly find a place in a syllabus which is to bind all schools and
all teachers alike, and which must therefore be so framed that the least capable teacher, working
under the least favourable conditions, may hope, when his pupils are examined on it, to achieve
with decent industry a decent modicum of success. Under the control of a uniform syllabus,
the schools which are now specialising and experimenting, and so giving a lead to the rest,
would have to abandon whatever was interesting in their respective curricula, and fall into
line with the average school; while, with the consequent lowering of the current ideal of efficiency,
the level of the average school would steadily fall. A uniform syllabus is a bad syllabus,
for this if for no other reason, that it is compelled to idealise the average; and that, inasmuch
as education, so far as it is a living system, grows by means of its "leaders," the idealisation
of the average is necessarily fatal to educational growth and therefore to educational life.

It was preordained, then, that the syllabuses which the Department issued, year by year, in
the days of payment by results should have few merits and many defects. Yet even if, by an
unimaginable miracle, they had all been educationally sound, the mere fact that all the teachers
in England had to work by them would have made them potent agencies for evil. To be in bondage
to a syllabus is a misfortune for a teacher, and a misfortune for the school that he teaches.
To be in bondage to a syllabus which is binding on all schools alike, is a graver misfortune.
To be in bondage to a bad syllabus which is binding on all schools alike, is of all misfortunes
the gravest. Or if there is a graver, it is the fate that befell the teachers of England under
the old régime,--the fate of being in bondage to a syllabus which was bad both because it had
to come down to the level of the least fortunate school and the least capable teacher, and
also because it was the outcome of ignorance, inexperience, and bureaucratic self-satisfaction.

Of the evils that are inherent in the examination system as such--of its tendency to arrest
growth, to deaden life, to paralyse the higher faculties, to externalise what is inward, to
materialise what is spiritual, to involve education in an atmosphere of unreality and self-deception--I
have already spoken at some length. In the days of payment by results various circumstances
conspired to raise those evil tendencies to the highest imaginable "power." When inspectors
ceased to examine (in the stricter sense of the word) they realised what infinite mischief
the yearly examination had done. The children, the majority of whom were examined in reading
and dictation out of their own reading-books (two or three in number, as the case might be),
were drilled in the contents of those books until they knew them almost by heart. In arithmetic
they worked abstract sums, in obedience to formal rules, day after day, and month after month;
and they were put up to various tricks and dodges which would, it was hoped, enable them to
know by what precise rules the various questions on the arithmetic cards were to be answered.
They learned a few lines of poetry by heart, and committed all the "meanings and allusions"
to memory, with the probable result--so sickening must the process have been--that they hated
poetry for the rest of their lives. In geography, history, and grammar they were the victims
of unintelligent oral cram, which they were compelled, under pains and penalties, to take in
and retain till the examination day was over, their ability to disgorge it on occasion being
periodically tested by the teacher. And so with the other subjects. Not a thought was given,
except in a small minority of the schools, to the real training of the child, to the fostering
of his mental (and other) growth. To get him through the yearly examination by hook or by crook
was the one concern of the teacher. As profound distrust of the teacher was the basis of the
policy of the Department, so profound distrust of the child was the basis of the policy of
the teacher. To leave the child to find out anything for himself, to work out anything for
himself, to think out anything for himself, would have been regarded as a proof of incapacity,
not to say insanity, on the part of the teacher, and would have led to results which, from
the "percentage" point of view, would probably have been disastrous.

There were few inspectors who were not duly impressed from 1895 onwards by the gravity of the
evils that inspection, as distinguished from mere examination, revealed to them; but it may
be doubted if there were many inspectors who realised then, what some among them see clearly
now, that the evils which distressed them were significant as symptoms even more than as sources
of mischief,--as symptoms of a deep-seated and insidious malady, of the gradual ossification
of the spiritual and mental muscles of both the teacher and the child, of the gradual substitution
in the elementary school of machinery for life.

For us of the Twentieth Century who know enough about education to be aware of the shallowness
of our knowledge of it, and of the imperfection of the existing educational systems of our
country, it may be difficult to realise that in the years when things were at their worst,
at any rate in the field of elementary education, the Nation in general and the "Department"
in particular were well content that things should remain as they were,--well content that
the elementary school should be, not a nursery of growing seedlings and saplings, but a decently
efficient mill, and that year after year this mill should keep on grinding out its dreary and
meaningless "results."

But bad as things were in those days, there was at least one redeeming feature. The children
were compelled to work, to exert themselves, to "put their backs into it." The need for this
was obvious. The industry of the child meant so much professional reputation and, in the last
resort, so much bread and butter to his teacher. It is true that the child was not allowed
to do anything by or for himself; but it is equally true that he had to do pretty strenuously
whatever task was set him. He had to get up his two (or three) "Readers" so thoroughly that
he could be depended upon to pass both the reading and the dictation test with success. He
had to work his abstract sums in arithmetic correctly. He had to take in and remember the historical
and geographical information with which he had been crammed. And so forth. There must be no
shirking, no slacking on his part. His teachers worked hard, though "not according to knowledge";
and he must do the same. Active, in the higher sense of the word, he was never allowed to be;
but he had to be actively receptive, strenuously automatic, or his teacher would know the reason
why.

Such was the old régime. Its defects were so grave and so vital that, now that it has become
discredited (in theory, if not in practice), we can but wonder how it endured for so long.
As an ingenious instrument for arresting the mental growth of the child, and deadening all
his higher faculties, it has never had, and I hope will never have, a rival. Far from fostering
the growth of those great expansive instincts--sympathetic, æsthetic, and scientific--which
Nature has implanted in every child, it set itself to extirpate them, one and all, with ruthless
pertinacity. As a partial compensation for this work of wanton destruction, it made the child
blindly obedient, mechanically industrious, and (within very narrow limits) accurate and thorough.
I have described it at some length because I see clearly that no one who does not realise what
the elementary school used to be, in the days of its sojourn in the Land of Bondage, can even
begin to understand why it is what it is to-day.

Having for thirty-three years deprived the teachers of almost every vestige of freedom, the
Department suddenly reversed its policy and gave them in generous measure the boon which it
had so long withheld. Whether it was wise to give so much at so short a notice may be doubted.
What is beyond dispute is that it was unwise to expect so great and so unexpected a gift to
be used at once to full advantage. A man who had grown accustomed to semi-darkness would be
dazzled to the verge of blindness if he were suddenly taken out into broad daylight. This is
what was done in 1895 to the teachers of England, and it is not to be wondered at that many
of them have been purblind ever since. For thirty-three years they had been treated as machines,
and they were suddenly asked to act as intelligent beings. For thirty-three years they had
been practically compelled to do everything for the child, and they were suddenly expected
to give him freedom and responsibility,--words which for many of them had well-nigh lost their
meaning. To comply with these unreasonable demands was beyond their power. The grooves into
which they had been forced were far too deep for them. The routine to which they had become
accustomed had far too strong a hold on them. The one change which they could make was to relax
their own severe pressure on the child. This they did, perhaps without intending to do it.
Indeed, now that there was no external examination to look forward to, the pressure on the
child may be said to have automatically relaxed itself. What happened--I will not say in all
schools, but in far too many--was that the teaching remained as mechanical and unintelligent
as ever, that the teacher continued to distrust the child and to do everything for him, but
that the child gradually became slacker and less industrious. Not that his teacher wished him
to "slack," but that the stimulus of the yearly examination had been withdrawn at a time when
there was nothing to take its place. Exercise is in itself a delightful thing when it is wholesome,
natural, and rational; but when it is unwholesome, unnatural, and irrational, it will not be
taken in sufficient measure except in response to some strong external stimulus. Under the
old examination system an adequate stimulus had been supplied by the combined influence of
competition and fear (chiefly the latter). When the examination system was abolished, that
stimulus necessarily lost its point. Had it then been possible for the teacher to make the
exercise which his pupils were asked to take wholesome, natural, and rational, a new stimulus--that
of interest in their work--would have been applied to the pupils, and they would have exerted
themselves as they had never done before. But it was not possible for the average teacher to
execute at a moment's notice a complete change of front, and it was unwise of the Department
to expect him to do so. Apart from an honourable minority, who had always been in secret revolt
against the despotism of the Code, the old teachers were helpless and hopeless. The younger
ones had been through the mill themselves, first in the Elementary School, then in the Pupil-Teacher
Centre, and then in the Training College (both the latter having been in too many cases cramming
establishments like the Elementary School); and when they went back to work under a head teacher
who was wedded to the old order of things, they found no difficulty in falling in with his
ways and carrying out his wishes. If a young teacher, fresh from an exceptionally enlightened
Training College, became an assistant under an old-fashioned head teacher, he soon had the
"nonsense knocked out of him," and was compelled to toe the line with the rest of the staff.

But it was not only because the teachers of England had got accustomed to the Land of Bondage,
that they shrank from entering the Promised Land. There was, and still is, another and a stronger
reason. Wherever the teacher looks, he sees that the examination system, with its demand for
machine-made results, controls education; and he feels that it is only by an accident that
his school has been exempted (in part at least) from its pressure. The Board of Education still
examine for labour certificates, for admission as uncertificated assistants, for the teacher's
certificate. They expect head teachers to hold terminal examinations of all the classes in
their schools. They allow Local Authorities to examine children in their schools as formally
and as stringently as they please, and to hold examinations for County Scholarships, for which
children from elementary schools are eligible. Admission to secondary schools of all grades
depends on success in passing entrance examinations. So does admission to the various Colleges
and Universities. In the schools which prepare little boys for the "Great Public Schools,"
the whole scheme of education Is dominated by the headmaster's desire to win as many entrance
scholarships as possible. In the "Great Public Schools" the scheme of education is similarly
dominated by the headmaster's desire to win as many scholarships as possible at the Oxford
and Cambridge Colleges. In the Universities all the undergraduates without exception are reading
for examinations of various kinds,--pass "schools," honour "schools," Civil Service examinations,
and the like. Officers in the Army and Navy have never done with examinations; and there is
not a single profession which can be entered through any door but that of a public examination.
Wherever the teacher looks he sees that examinations are held in high honour, and that the
main business of teachers of all grades is to produce results which an outside examiner would
accept as satisfactory; and he naturally takes for granted that the production of such results
is the true function of the teacher, whether his success in producing them is to be tested
by a formal examination or not. The air that he breathes is charged with ideas--ideas about
life in general and education in particular--which belong to the order of things that he is
supposed to have left behind him, and are fiercely antagonistic to those as yet unrecognised
ideas which give the new order of things its meaning, its purpose, and its value.

How can we expect the teacher to look inward when all the conditions of his existence, not
as a teacher only but also as a citizen and a man, conspire to make him look outward? But if
the Fates are against his looking inward, to what purpose has he been emancipated from the
direct control of a system which had at least the merit of being in line with all the central
tendencies of Western civilisation? How does it profit him to be free if, under the pressure
of those tendencies, the chief use that he makes of his freedom is to grind out from his pupils
results akin to those which were asked for in the days of schedules and percentages? Freedom
was given him in order that he might be free to take thought for the vital welfare of his pupils.
Or, if freedom was not given to him for that purpose, it were better that it had been withheld
from him until those who were able to give or withhold it had formed a juster conception of
its meaning.

The truth is that the exemption of the elementary school, and of it alone among schools, from
the direct pressure of the examination system, is an isolated and audacious experiment, which
is carried on under conditions so unfavourable to its success that nothing but a high degree
of intelligence and moral courage (not to speak of originality) on the part of the teacher
can make it succeed. Can we wonder that in many cases the experiment has proved a failure?

At the end of the previous chapter I asked myself whether the education that was given in the
ordinary elementary school tended to foster self-expression on the part of the child. We can
now see what the answer to this question is likely to be. For a third of a century--from 1862
to 1895--self-expression on the part of the child may be said to have been formally prohibited
by all who were responsible for the elementary education of the children of England, and also
to have been prohibited de facto by all the unformulated conditions under which the elementary
school was conducted. In 1895 the formal prohibition of self-expression ceased, but the de
facto prohibition of it in the ordinary school is scarcely less effective to-day than it was
in the darkest days of the old régime. For

  "The evil that men do lives after them,"

and the old régime, though nominally abrogated, overshadows us still. When I say this I do
not merely mean that many teachers who were brought up under the old régime have been unable
to emancipate themselves from its influence. I mean that the old régime was itself the outcome
and expression of traditional tendencies which are of the essence of Western civilisation,
of ways of thinking and acting to which we are all habituated from our earliest days, and that
these tendencies and these ways of thinking and acting overshadow us still. The formal abrogation
of the old régime counts for little so long as the examination system, with its demand for
visible and measurable results and its implicit invitation to cram and cheat, is allowed to
cast its deadly shadow on education as such,--and so long as the whole system on which the
young of all classes and grades are educated is favourable to self-deception on the part of
the teacher and fatal to sincerity on the part of the child. Constrained by every influence
that is brought to bear upon him to judge according to the appearance of things, the teacher
can ill afford to judge righteous judgment,--can ill afford to regard what is outward and visible
as the symbol of what is inward and spiritual, can ill afford to think of the work done by
the child except as a thing to be weighed in an examiner's balance or measured by an examiner's
rule.

Things being as they are in the various grades of education and in the various strata of social
life, it is inevitable that the education given in many of our elementary schools should be
based, in the main, on complete distrust of the child. In such schools, whatever else the child
may be allowed to do, he must not be allowed to do anything by or for himself. He must not
express what he really feels and sees; for if he does, the results will probably fall short
of the standard of neatness, cleanness, and correctness which an examiner might expect the
school to reach. At any rate, the experiment is much too risky to be tried. In the lower classes
the results produced would certainly be rough, imperfect, untidy. Therefore self-expression
must not be permitted in that part of the school. And if not there, it must not be permitted
anywhere, for the longer it is delayed the greater will be the difficulty of starting it and
the greater the attendant risk. The child must not express what he really perceives; and as
genuine perception forces for itself the outlet of genuine expression, he must not be allowed
to exercise his perceptive faculties. Instead of seeing things for himself, he must see what
his teacher directs him to see, he must feel what his teacher directs him to feel, he must
think what his teacher directs him to think, and so on. But to forbid a child to use his own
perceptive faculties is to arrest the whole process of his growth.

I will now go back to the Arithmetic lesson. During the years in which the children in elementary
schools were examined individually in reading, writing, and arithmetic, the one virtue which
was inculcated while the arithmetic lesson was in progress was that of obedience to the formulated
rule. On the yearly examination day it was customary to give each child four questions in arithmetic,
of which only one was a "problem." Two sums correctly worked secured a "pass"; and it was therefore
possible for the child to achieve salvation in arithmetic by blindly obeying the various rules
with which his teacher had equipped him. He had, indeed, to decide for himself in each case
which rule was to be followed; but he did this (in most schools), not by thinking the matter
out, but by following certain by-rules given him by his teacher, which were based on a careful
study of the wording of the questions set by the inspector, and which held good as long as
that wording remained unchanged. For example, if a subtraction sum was to be dictated to "Standard
II," the child was taught that the number which was given out first was to be placed in the
upper line, and that the number which came next was to be subtracted from this. He was not
taught that the lesser of the two numbers was always to be subtracted from the larger; for
in order to apply that principle he would have had to decide for himself which was the larger
of the two numbers, and the consequent mental effort was one which his teacher could not trust
him to make. It is true that in his desire to save the child from the dire necessity of thinking,
the teacher ran the risk of being discomfited by a sudden change of procedure on the part of
an inspector. The inspector, for example, who, having been accustomed to say "From 95 take
57," chose to say, for a change, "Take 57 from 95," would cause widespread havoc in the first
two or three schools that were the victims of his unlooked-for experiment. But the risks which
the teacher ran who taught his pupils to rely on trickery rather than thought were worth running;
for the inspectors, like the teachers and the children, were ever tending to become creatures
of routine, and the vagaries of those who had the reputation of being tiresomely versatile
could be provided against--largely, if not wholly--by increased ingenuity on the part of the
teacher, and increased attention to tricky by-rules on the part of the child.

The number of schools in which arithmetic is intelligently and even practically taught is undoubtedly
much larger than it was in the days of payment by results; but there are still thousands of
schools in which obedience to the rule for its own sake is the basis of all instruction in
arithmetic. Now to live habitually by rule instead of by thought is necessarily fatal, in every
field of action, to the development of that sense or perceptive faculty, on which right action
ultimately depends. Following his reputed guide blindly, mechanically, and with whole-hearted
devotion, the votary of the rule never allows his intuition, his faculty of direct perception
and subconscious judgment, to play even for a moment round the matters on which he is engaged;
and the result is that the faculty in question is not merely prevented from growing, but is
at last actually blighted in the bud. This is but another way of saying what I have already
insisted upon,--that to forbid self-expression on the part of the child is to starve his perceptive
faculties into non-existence.

There is no folly perpetrated in the elementary school of to-day for which there are not authoritative
precedents to be found in the conduct of one or other of the two great schools which the God
of Western theology is supposed to have opened for the education of Man. And it is in that
special development of the Legal School which is known as Pharisaism that we shall look for
a precedent for the conventional teaching of arithmetic in our elementary schools. The ultra-legalism
of the Pharisee in the days of Christ finds its exact counterpart in the ultra-legalism of
the child who has been taught arithmetic by the methods which the yearly examination fostered,
and which are still widely prevalent. In the one case there was, in the other case there is,
an entire inability on the part of the zealous votary of the rule to estimate the intrinsic
value of the results of his blind and unintelligent action. The sense of humour, which is a
necessary element in every other healthy sense, and which so often keeps us from going astray,
by suddenly revealing to us the inherent absurdity of our proposed action, is one of the first
faculties to succumb to the blighting influence of an ultra-legal conception of life. As an
example of the unwavering seriousness of the Pharisee in the presence of what was intrinsically
ridiculous, let us take his attitude towards the problem of keeping food warm for the Sabbath
day. "According to Exodus xvi. 23, it was forbidden to bake and to boil on the Sabbath. Hence
the food, which it was desired to eat hot on the Sabbath, was to be prepared before its commencement,
and kept warm by artificial means. In doing this, however, care must be taken that the existing
heat was not increased, which would have been 'boiling.' Hence the food must be put only into
such substances as would maintain its heat, not into such as might possibly increase it. 'Food
to be kept warm for the Sabbath must not be put into oil-dregs, manure, salt, chalk, or sand,
whether moist or dry, nor into straw, grape-skins, flock, or vegetables, if these are damp,
though it may if they are dry. It may, however, be put into clothes, amidst fruits, pigeons'
feathers, and flax tow. R. Jehudah declares flax tow unallowable and permits only coarse tow.'"[10]
Following his rule out, step by step, with unflinching loyalty, into these ridiculous consequences,
the Pharisee had entirely lost the power of seeing that they were ridiculous, and was well
content to believe, with Jehudah, that the difference between keeping food warm in coarse tow
and in flax tow was the difference between life and death. This reductio ad absurdum of legalism
is exactly paralleled, in many of our elementary schools, in the answers to arithmetical questions
given by the children. The "Fifth Standard" boys who told their inspector, as an answer to
an easy problem, that a given room was five shillings and sixpence wide, had followed out their
rule--they had unfortunately got hold of a wrong rule--step by step, till it led them to a
conclusion, the intrinsic absurdity of which they were one and all unable to see.[11] There
are many elementary schools in England in which a majority of the answers given to quite easy
problems would certainly be wrong, and a respectable minority of them ludicrously wrong. Nor
is this to be wondered at; for though the types of problems that can be set in elementary schools
are not numerous, to provide his pupils with the by-rules which shall enable them in all, or
even in most cases, to determine which of the recognised rules are appropriate to the given
situation, passes the wit of the teacher. But if the helplessness of so many elementary scholars
in the face of an arithmetical problem is lamentable, still more lamentable is the fact that
the scholar is seldom met with who, having given an entirely wrong answer to an easy problem,
is able to see for himself that, whatever the right answer may be, the answer given is and
must be wrong. So fatal to the development of the arithmetical sense is the current worship
of the rule for its own sake, and so deadly a narcotic is the conventional arithmetic lesson
to all who take part in it!

 It is not in the arithmetic lesson, then, that provision is
ordinarily made for the development of a sense, or perceptive
faculty, through the medium of self-expression on the part of the
child. On the contrary, the very raison d'être of the arithmetic
lesson, as it is still given in many schools, is to destroy the
arithmetical sense, and make the child an inefficient calculating
machine, which, even when working, is too often inaccurate and
clumsy, and which the slightest change of environment throws at
once and completely out of gear.

After the arithmetical lesson come, as a rule, lessons in "Reading" and "Writing"--in reading
in some classes, in writing in others.

Why are they doing this? Is it in order that their teacher may show them how to master the
more difficult words in their reading lesson? This may be the reason, in some schools; but
there are others, perhaps a majority, in which the teacher tells his pupils the words that
puzzle them instead of helping them to make them out for themselves. Besides, if reading were
properly taught in the lower classes, the children in the upper classes would surely be able
to master unaided the difficulties that might confront them.

Or is it in order that elocution may be cultivated? But elocution is seldom, if ever, cultivated
in the ordinary elementary school, the veriest mumbling on the part of the child being accepted
by his teacher (who follows him with an open book in his hand), provided that he can read correctly
and with some attempt at "phrasing." Indeed, the indistinct utterance of so many school children
may be attributed to the fact that they have read aloud to their teachers for many years, and
that during the whole of that time a very low standard of distinctness has been accepted as
satisfactory.

Or is it in order that the teacher may help his pupils to understand what they are reading?
This may be one of his reasons for hearing them read aloud; but so far as the higher classes
are concerned it is a bad reason, for the older the child the more imperative is it that he
should try to make out for himself the meaning of what he reads; and the teacher who spoon-feeds
his pupils during the reading lesson is doing his best to make them incapable of digesting
the contents of books for themselves.

No, there are two chief reasons why the teacher makes children of eleven, twelve, thirteen
and fourteen years of age read aloud to him as if they were children of six or seven. The first
reason is that the unemancipated teacher instinctively does to-day what he did twenty years
ago, and that twenty years ago, when children were examined in reading from their own books,
the teacher heard them read aloud, day after day in order that he might make sure that they
knew their books well enough to pass the inspector's test. The second reason, which is wider
than the first, and may be said to include and account for it, is that the reading-aloud lesson
fits in with the whole system of Western education, being the outcome and expression of that
complete distrust of the child which is, and always has been, characteristic of the popular
religion and philosophy of the West. If you ask the teacher why the children, even in the highest
classes, are never allowed to work at such subjects as history and geography by themselves,
he will tell you frankly that he cannot trust them to do so, that they do not know how to use
a book. And he cannot see that in giving this excuse he is condemning himself, and making open
confession of the worthlessness of the training that he has given to his pupils.

Whatever else the reading-aloud lesson may be, it is a dismal waste of time. Child after child
stands up, reads for a minute or so, and then sits down, remaining idle and inert (except when
an occasional question is addressed to him) for the rest of the time occupied by the so-called
lesson. In this, as in most oral lessons, the elementary school child passes much of his time
in a state which is neither activity nor rest,--a state of enforced inertness combined with
unnatural and unceasing strain. Activity is good for the child, and rest, which, is the complement
of activity, is good for the child; but the combination of inertness with strain is good for
neither his body nor his mind. Indeed, it may be doubted if there is any state of mind and
body which is so uneducational as this, or so unfavourable to healthy growth.

 But the main objection to the reading-aloud lesson is, I repeat, that
while it is going on the children are not reading at all, in the
proper sense of the word, not attacking the book, not enjoying it,
not extracting the honey from it. And the consequences of the
inability to read which is thus engendered are far-reaching and
disastrous. The power to read is a key which unlocks many doors. One
of the most important of these doors--perhaps, from the strictly
scholastic point of view, the most important--is the door of study.
The child who cannot read to himself cannot study a book, cannot
master its contents. It is because the elementary school child cannot
be trusted to do any independent study, that the oral lesson, or
lecture, with its futile expenditure of "chalk and talk," is so
prominent a feature in the work of the elementary school. And it is
because the oral lesson necessarily counts for so much, that the
over-grouping of classes, with all its attendant evils, is so widely
practised. The grouping together of "Standards" V, VI, and VII, with
the result that the children who go through all those Standards are
compelled to waste the last two years of their school life, is a
practice which is almost universal in elementary schools of a certain
size. And there are few schools of that size in which those Standards
could not be broken up into two, if not three, independent classes,
if the children, whose ages range as a rule between eleven and
fourteen, could be trusted to work by themselves. In many cases this
over-grouping is wholly inexcusable, the headmaster having no class
of his own to teach, and being therefore free to do what obviously
ought to be done,--to separate the older and more advanced children
from the rest of the top class, and form them into a separate class
(a real top class) for independent study and self-education under his
direction and supervision. But so strong is the force of habit, and
so deeply rooted in the mind of the teacher is distrust of the child,
that it is rare to find the head teacher to whom the idea of breaking
up an over-grouped top class has suggested itself as practicable, or
even as intrinsically desirable.

We owe it, then, to the reading-aloud fetich that in many of our schools the children are compelled
to spend the last two (or even three) years of their school life--the most important years
of all from the point of view of their preparation for the battle of life--in marking time,
in staying where they were. It is to those years of enforced stagnation that the reluctance
of the ex-elementary scholar to go on with his education is largely due; for no one can keep
on moving who is not already on the move, and the desire to continue education is scarcely
to be looked for in one who has been given to understand that his education has come to an
end. But there is another and a shorter cut from the conventional reading lesson to the early
extinction of the child's educational career. The child who leaves school without having learned
how to use a book, will find that the one door through which access is gained to most of the
halls of learning--the door of independent study--is for ever slammed in his face. Not that
he will seriously try to open it; for with the ability to read the desire to read will have
aborted. The distrust of the child, on which Western education is based, is a bottomless gulf
in which educational effort, whatever form it may take or in whatever quarter it may originate,
is for the most part swallowed up and made as though it had not been. The child who leaves
school at the age of fourteen will have attended some 2,000 or 3,000 reading lessons in the
course of his school life. From these, in far too many cases, he will have carried nothing
away but the ability to stumble with tolerable correctness through printed matter of moderate
difficulty. He will not have carried away from them either the power or the desire to read.

In the days of percentages, instruction in "Writing" below Standard V was entirely confined
to handwriting and spelling; and even in the higher Standards the teacher thought more about
handwriting and spelling than any other aspect of this composite subject. Now handwriting and
spelling are merely means to an end,--the end of making clear to the reader the words that
have been committed to paper by the writer. But it is the choice rather than the setting out
of words that really matters, and the name that we give to the choosing of words is Composition.
The excessive regard that has always been paid in our elementary schools to neat handwriting
and correct spelling is characteristic of the whole Western attitude towards education. No
"results" are more easily or more accurately appraised than these, and it follows that no "results"
are more highly esteemed by the unenlightened teacher. For wherever the outward standard of
reality has established itself at the expense of the inward, the ease with which worth (or
what passes for such) can be measured is ever tending to become in itself the chief, if not
the sole, measure of worth. And in proportion as we tend to value the results of education
for their measureableness, so we tend to undervalue and at last to ignore those results which
are too intrinsically valuable to be measured.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hence the neglect of Composition in so many elementary schools. I mean by composition the sincere
expression in language of the child's genuine thoughts and feelings. The effort to "compose,"
whether orally or on paper, is one of the most educational of all efforts; for language is
at once the most readily available and the most subtle and sympathetic of all media of expression;
and the effort to express himself in it tends, in proportion as it is sincere and strong, to
give breadth, depth, and complexity to the child's thoughts and feelings, and through the development
of these to weave his experiences into the tissue of his life. But sincerity of expression
is not easily measured, and the true value of the thoughts and feelings that are struggling
to express themselves in a child's composition is beyond the reach of any rule or scale; whereas
neatness of handwriting and correctness of spelling are, as we have seen, features which appeal
even to the carelessly observant eye. Two or three miles away is the south-west the hill Galvan, it is only in
the western side. This lower part of this a bunch of great mountains. At the south side of the river
are too many hills and narrow with strong currents, with peñasquería the sides of the river, and
called this step Itapucú-wolf. Is at 22 degrees and 10 minutes. Below is a tip that is another
narrow ridge, and ends this rock tip cut off, and lies about eight miles from the Itapucú-wolf.

Sign
in below, on the eastern margin, the Rio Guarambaré in 23 degrees
8 minutes, and in front of the mouth is an island.

For the 23 degrees and 21 minutes are scattered stones middle of the river, so in this stage should
navigate with caution. Ipan river-wolf flows into the Paraguay, at latitude 23 degrees 28 minutes.
His mouth is facing a island. Download this river of yerba mate that are north of Curuguatí,
and has its origin near the Guatimí. In the 23 degrees 51 minutes between the Paraguay, on the
western margin, the Cookers river, and a short distance below the same band enters the Verde
River. Al front of these two rivers there are four islands. Lower in the Banda Oriental enters
mini Ipan in 21 degrees and 2 minutes.

Ipan below the mini, in 24 degrees and 4 minutes, we found that looked
straight needle to the north, and can not be attributed to other causes
to the proximity of some iron ore stone or magnet, of which there
is enough in the jurisdiction of Paraguay.

In the 24 degrees and 7 minutes between the Banda Oriental Xexuí the river, which comes from
the Curuguatí yerbales, and perhaps sailing ships loaded with grass, although much work, missteps
you have. In the 24 degrees and 23 minutes between, on the east, the Cuarepotí: in 24 degrees
and 29 minutes, the Ibobi. But 50 minutes down on the same level, enters the same side of the
Tobatí in an arm of Paraguay, whose entrance into the tip of the island is further south (and the
first tip when it comes up in the arm), two stones who come to the flower water, which should
be departing ships, or to take course at the river wider, leaving the eastern part of the island.
In the Tobatí fit, before his fall in Paraguay, the river Capiatá.

In the 24 degrees 56 minutes will go to Paraguay, in the west, the river Mboicaé. In 24 and 58,
little above the fort of Arecutacuá, enter through the east the Peribebuí, and more down, in
25 gr. and a minute, go on the same side the river Salado.

Deep down, almost at the same height, enter the western margin Piraí river.

The city of Assumption is 25 gr. 17 min. 15 seconds of latitude, 320 gr. 12 min. of length,
according to some markers. Others found 25, 16, latitude 320, 10
in length.

Deep down is via three mouths, the West Bank, the famous river Pilcomayo, which brings its
waters cerranias Potosi, and runs through the Chaco. In the 25 gr. 32 min. Paraguay makes a
narrow entrance, taking only a rifle shot from a river to another, and is At this place the
fort called La Angostura. The Tebicuari enter Paraguay by the east, in 26 gr. 35 min. Down by
the river boats of Our Lady of Santa Fe and Rosa.

The Rio Grande, or Bermejo enters the Paraguay by the West in 26 gr. 54 min., And her mouth is
far the city of Corrientes eleven leagues from the air, the river
is 17, or 18.

Comes Bermejo of the mountains that are between Salta and Tarija: through much of the Chaco: the
color of its waters is something vermilion. In coming together with Paraguay, infects waters
it, so that the water is unhealthy until concurs in Corrientes Parana. They join the rivers
Paraná and Paraguay at the forefront of this city, which is located on the eastern margin, at
27 degrees and 27 minutes latitude, 319 and 55 minutes in length. Seven Flames of Corrientes
city, because the land where the city is, for seven stone points, leaving the river, where
the current is stronger Paraná. From here loses the name Paraguay, because the Paraná, but mighty
as yours keeps up near Buenos Aires, where, along with Uruguay, flows into the sea with the name
of Rio de la Plata, so named because brought from here some articles of silver and gold the first
conquerors of Paraguay, which had brought jewelry Indians in Paraguay first entry made to the
people of Peru with Alejo Garcia and his colleagues, according to is written in Argentina Rui
Diaz de Guzman.

* * *

§. II.

Nations of Indians living on the banks of Paraguay.

First in the same river, and its islands, inhabited by two factions of Indians Payaguá, who
walk all over him in their canoes, and kept fishing, and what to steal Spanish and Portuguese. A
bias has a room in the northernmost part of the river, and its principal
chief called Quatí.

The other is usually more frequently in the southern part, in the proximity of the Assumption.
The principal chief of this is called Ipar.

On the banks of the river, starting from its junction with the Paraná, live to the west, Abipones,
of which number is reduced to people. Others, with their friends Tuffs and Bermejo River Mocobís
make incursions across the borders of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Santiago del Estero, Salta and Jujuí,
and sometimes from Paraná, make their shots in the jurisdiction of Corrientes, and often from the
river Paraguay and ambushes in the mountains, make significant damage
to the northernmost village of the Guarani missions, and stays the
jurisdiction of Paraguay.

The Indians arrive in the western part of Paraguay to the Pilcomayo.

From the Pilcomayo begins the land of the languages, which are all that part of the Chaco, the
Pilcomayo to the land of the Mbayas, and also pass Paraguay, to make
their shots into the rooms of the Assumption.

These Indians are no headquarters, nor do they support missionaries.

From the river Xexuí the one and another band, live the Mbayas, divided into several installments.
Its main tolderías are the first and second band of Paraguay, the lands most immediate the
south of Pan de Azucar. These Indians are all the earth, from the Tacuarí Xexuí by the Eastern
and Western, until near the Chiquitos. From the Sugar Loaf towards the north western side living
in the manure. These are Indians who work their land to plant corn, and also make their crops
to the Mbayas, paying these your work. Above the Tacuarí there, in the river of Porrudos, similar
to other Indians way of life to the Payaguá, but of more value, and excellent archers. Judge
is not many nations, they do not fall in their canoes to the river Paraguay. The Portuguese, sailing
by Xarayes from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, said that some trees there, in waterlogged Xaraya is allowed
to see some Indians, though few. Do not know what nation they are. Can be some relics of the
Xarayes.

Up here I do not know that Indians inhabit some on the banks of the
river Paraguay.

* * *

§. III.

Mountains and trees.

The Creator of all things gave us adjoining lands a nice Paraguay River object to the eye, with
admirable variety of mountains, hills, plains and forests. From Flows to the river Xexuí there
by a forest and another band with a great variety of plants. But the above is greater Xexuí charm
the eyes, because sometimes you discover a bouquet of the mountain all covered with trees,
other times it is a campaign full of grass very green, others are huge palm trees, a particular
species of palms, because Logs are soaring and rights, hardwood and round crown, with similar branches
to the palm of making brooms in Andalucia. Nor can find anything more apropos swiftly to form
the roofs of the houses, because in removing the glass, and cutting
the trunk by the foot, there's no more to do to apply to the work.

These palm trees are common from the fields Xexuí to Xerez. And as the logs are very clean,
walk the Indians horseback through the palm, without any pregnancy. The clusters of dates of these
palms are smaller than regular palm, and dates are also smaller in proportion. I do not know
if they are edible.

Generally speaking, all the hills and mountains are in many mountain slopes with tall trees and
very thick trunk.

And there is no doubt that they would be, with so variety, precious woods. We found by chance
the tree where they get the rubber guta, or gamboge, which is a paste of very fine yellow.
The tall tree, not too thick, sheet similar to that of the laurel. He uncovered the tree giving some
cuts for entertainment in the bark of one of this species. Then cut out by the liquid rubber,
which soon rubber coagulates as seen in the pharmacy.

From Mboteteí, sailing up the river is the tree called Cachiguá, which has thin trunk, about
twelve to thirteen inches in diameter. The wood is red, a similar to vermilion color. The Portuguese
Cuyabá wood used in this red dye: say that the wood does not lose color, and so exquisite
for desktops and other works work.

Tree of the cassia trees, or casiafistula, are mountains in the vicinity of the Xarayes, and grow taller
and thicker than the brown of Spain. The bark is white, similar to those of the walnut. The result
is a beer and a half span, and some two feet long. Have in large grains such as beans, grains and
between some pulp black, used to purge soft, and is sold in pharmacies.

The color of the cane, while ripe, is black as the pulp.

Taruma tree is a species of wild olive. The same size as that of the olive trees with little
difference, and even the leaf is not very different. The icing is like small olives, and has
his blood like olives. The Paraguayans eat this fruit, but I found it bland. It would be good to
test whether it can be very useful oil, and even if ignited in the Tarumas olive grafts.

* * *

§. IV.

Cuyabá facilities and Mattogroso.

The city of Cuiaba, according to some Portuguese maps, is at 14 degrees and 20 minutes south
latitude, and as inferred from the length that was found the mouth of Xaurú, and distance is
of Cuiaba, we can put this city in 322 degrees of longitude, counting del Fierro, with a short difference.
Its situation is on the east of the river called Cuiaba, which to lead in the Porrudos, runs
north to south, and navigate to the Cuyabá port, a distance of two to three miles from the city.

In
the northern part extends for many miles the great mountains, where they have their origin the
two mighty rivers Paraná and Paraguay. And just for the north, down to the Topayos Marañon
rivers, Xingu, rio de Dos Bocas, Tocantins and others.

In the southern part of Cuyabá be stretched for many leagues the wetlands
of Xarayes: from so that this part can not enter into the city but
by the stream.

Nor is it possible that otherwise you can pass people on foot or on horseback. In times of heavy
rains flooded almost all the space of sixty miles from north to south, and about the same from
east to west, that between the river and the mountains of Porrudos Cuyabá, and may at this
time through Cuyabá boats from the river Paraguay, without getting to the Porrudos, but dry weather
Cuyabá are reduced and Paraguay rivers to their narrow and deep channels. And although the
intermediate space are many gaps, or there is no communication, or
not been discovered so far, where you can go through in straight from
a river to the other.

Therefore, for sailing time from Cuiaba to Xaurú dry, and go to Mattogroso, are the Portuguese
need to give a great back, down the river of Porrudos, and for this the river Paraguay, by which
to climb back over sixty miles to the mouth of Xaurú.

On the east side has Cuyabá many Indian lands inhabited only infidels: and although there is
no way to go through this part of Brazil, is the way very long, very laborious and esponse to the assaults
of the barbarians and the black rebels. For these reasons there are few The Portuguese who undertake
the journey by land. The great distance from Brazil, and laborious the road make the horses and
mules in Cuyabá be sold at prices very deep: it is sell an ordinary horse in a hundred pesos,
and a mule in two hundred.

To the west, from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, be stretched some mountains, which are branches of the
great mountain or mountain range that we discussed earlier. The Portuguese led the way for
these mountains, to have communication with those of Mattogroso: but laborious way, and only
for ordinary people used to temper the climate unhealthy.

The city of Cuiaba no wall, or artillery, or a fortification, for the wetlands of the Xarayes, and the
neglect of the Spanish total, judge fairly defended. Only the guard of Captain General, and
to defend the infidel Indians, maintain a company of soldiers paid to fifteen dollars per
month. From these various departments are. Twelve in two prisons to the frontier of the infidels:
twelve others in a war canoe serves to escort the boats that sail to St. Paul, and the remaining
twenty, are in Cuiaba, and they are all defending the city.

The number of people of all castes come to five thousand people, of
which only a small number are free, others, or slaves, or taken and
treated as such, because Except for little more than two hundred people
who will find white people, the others, many are black and mulattoes,
and mestizos many Indians, who are treated by the Portuguese like
slaves: for, though only to the actual ordinance and to those of Payaguá
other nation can make slaves, but those parts are served any Portuguese
Indians who can catch, and keep them in slavery.

The Indians Cuyabá by more immediate the north are the Paresis and
Barbudos: they never give to the Portuguese, for either have to overcome,
or are to be killed in the fray.

On the north-east are the Bororo Indians: these have the simplicity
of it, caught India by the Portuguese some of his nation, then come
the immediate relatives to deliver and serve the Portuguese who has
her home.

To the south, after the flooding, are above the Mbayas that the passage
of the Paulist Tacuarí by the usually undertake.

* * *

§. V.

Cuyabá mines.

Throughout Brazil are the Portuguese name of mines to the gold mines. And so neither in Cuiaba,
or any other part of Brazil, which has come to my knowledge, mine
is working properly such.

But there are gold mines Cuyabá of 23 carats, and one of the gold mines are diamonds. But in
these years history, because diamonds are not losing their estimation, was banned by the King
of Portugal them out of Cuiaba. The sinks are located in various parts to falls or slopes of
the great Cordillera. Work in these laundries black slaves, black and gives each his master in
every week three pieces of gold grains, which is the only currency runs there. And you do the math
on buying and selling gold in octaves and each octave are two weights.

In some parts is gold in abundance, but you can not take advantage
of him there for missing water for washing.

The great distance from Cuiaba to the coast of Brazil is due to the gender of Europe thence
selling price up. A very ordinary shirt worth six dollars, or three octaves gold: a pair of
shoes, the same: a flask of wine and brandy, which in the Janeiro given for ten pesos worth in Cuyabá
sixties. And this proportion is sold to other genres. What goes up there at exorbitant prices,
and is the largest smuggling, if you're not at the office custom, is salt, which is carried in
Lisbon, and not permitted elsewhere.

* * *

§. VI.

Cuyabá temperament and fruits of the earth.

In Cuiaba and its vicinity is very hot and humid temperament, and consequentially enjoys all
the land of poor health.

The most common disease which is called the Portuguese of the beast: and they die a lot, because
they can not cure. The disease is extreme laxity in the hole with dysentery, and some fever.
The Portuguese, convinced that is bred in the flesh some bug or Guzan, causing those effects, intended
to force lemon juice and other citrus fruits, to kill the bug, and happens not infrequently ending with
the patient. The surgeon D. Pedro Gracian, who sailed with me on a boat through the Xarajes, very
smart man in his right, hearing the ensign of complaining Cuyabá that was between the people some
patients the bug, maybe something was informed that the bug, and
actually went to see the sick, and found that there was no such creature
or Guzan, and offered to cure them later.

The Portuguese insisted upon very effectively that there was no cure for this disease the lemon tart, which
maybe mixed with AGI, garlic and salt, but The surgeon showed them the error where they were,
then taking his account of the patient who had of more danger, he was given two days healthy,
without applying any of the sobredichas thing to kill the bug, have certainly had no such animal.

The
storm water that run through forests there cañafístula, Parages covered by the rods that fall from
the trees, bushes and other plants large purges, with excessive heat and the sleepless nights
caused by the multitude of mosquitoes are in my opinion the cause of that distemper and that disease.
The Spanish, who got into Xaurú, experiments at that temper like dysentery, with great relaxation
in the stomach, which had no the heat needed for digestion. In this accident happened to happiness,
taking before eating a bit of sweet wine: remedy needed in that country to avoid losing health.

The
downpours are common in the uplands, but the strongest, which are grown dramatically rivers,
beginning with the month of December. And grow both rivers, not finding enough opening out
the many waters that flow down into the plain of Xarayes, overflow flooding fields, and forming
by this time a big lake, but later, in the rain ceasing, is drained by the Paraguay river channel,
and are only the channels of the rivers, and some gaps, uncovering
all the rest of the plain, full of impenetrable marshes.

But all that space for flooding, there are some groves of trees he very high whose trunks are
flooded up to three and four yards high. And most fans watched in Xarayes, is that all land to be
flooded part of the year, they found ants (Of which there are innumerable crowd) way to keep
their nests. These are manufactured by strong clay on top of large trees, with such art is like
a furnace around one of the upper branches, and so well constructed
that they can not offend rain or wind. And so that these can not be
ants going up or down in dry weather, have made of it a strong mud-covered
road or canal, descending to the foot of the tree, which channel the
ants up and down safely.

The fruits of the land of Cuiaba and its
region are maize, rice, cassava (in other parts of America called
cazave), pineapples, bananas or pacobas with many other fruit species
typical of hot climates of America, sugar, cane syrup and bees, which
There are several species in the mountains. The wild rice is on the
banks of the Rio Cuiaba and Porrudos. No fucks wheat, no wine, no
nuts in Europe.

In making this sketch of what is still a common type of elementary school, my object has been
to provide myself with materials for answering the question: Does elementary education, as
at present conducted in this country, tend to foster the growth of the child's faculties? If
my sketch is even approximately faithful to its original, the answer to the question, so far
at least as thousands of schools are concerned, must be an emphatic No. For in the school,
as I have sketched it, the one end and aim of the teacher is to prevent the child from doing
anything whatever for himself; and where independent effort is prohibited, the growth of faculty
must needs be arrested, the growth of every faculty, as of every limb and organ, being dependent
in large measure on its being duly and suitably exercised by its owner. If this statement is
true of faculty as such, and of effort as such, still more is it true of the particular faculties
which school life is supposed to train, the faculties which we speak of loosely as perceptive,--and
of the particular effort by which alone the growth of the perceptive faculties is effected,
the many-sided effort which we speak of loosely as self-expression. Far perception and expression
are, as I have endeavoured to prove, the face and obverse of the same vital process; and the
educational policy which makes self-expression, or, in other words, sincere expression, impossible,
is therefore fatal to the outgrowth of the whole range of the perceptive faculties.

The education given in thousands of our elementary schools is, then, in the highest degree
anti-educational. The end which education ought to aim at achieving is the very end which the
teacher labours unceasingly to defeat. The teacher may, indeed, contend that his business is
not to evoke faculty but to impart knowledge. The answer to this argument is that the type
of education which impedes the outgrowth of faculty is necessarily fatal to the acquisition
of knowledge. For the teacher can no more impart knowledge to his pupils than a nurse can impart
flesh and blood to her charges. What the teacher imparts is information, just as what the nurse
imparts is food; and until information has been converted into knowledge the child is as far
from being educated as the infant, whose food remains unassimilated, is from being nourished.
The teacher may pump information into the child in a never-ending stream; but so long as he
compels the child to adopt an attitude of passive receptivity, and forbids him to react, through
the medium of self-expression, on the food that he is receiving, so long will the food remain
unassimilated and even undigested, and the soul and mind of the child remain uneducated and unfed.

Whether, then, we concern ourselves, as educationalists, with the growth of the child's whole
nature, or with the growth of his master faculties, or again with the growth of those special
"senses" which evolve themselves in response to the stimulus of special environments, we see
that in each case the effect of the teacher's policy of distrust and repression is to arrest
growth. When the stern supernaturalist reminds us that the child's nature is intrinsically
evil, and that therefore in arresting its growth education renders him a priceless service,
we answer that, in arresting the growth of the child's nature as a whole, education arrests
the growth of all the master faculties of his being, and that there are some at least among
these which, even in the judgment of the supernaturalist, imperatively need to be trained.
When the strait-laced, result-hunting teacher reminds us that his sole business is to teach
certain subjects, and that therefore he cannot concern himself with growth, we answer that,
in neglecting to foster growth, he makes it impossible for the child to put forth a special
"sense," a special faculty of direct perception, in response to each new environment, and so
(for reasons which have already been given) incapacitates him for mastering any subject. There
is always one point of view, if no more, from which my primary assumption--that the function
of education is to foster growth--is seen to be a truism. And from that point of view, if from
no other, the failure of the routine-ridden school to fulfil its destiny is seen to be final
and complete.

Yet to say that elementary education, as it is given in such a school, tends to arrest growth,
is to under-estimate its capacity for mischief. In the act of arresting growth it must needs
distort growth, and in doing this it must needs deaden and even destroy the life which is ever
struggling to evolve itself. It is well that from time to time we should ask ourselves what
compulsory education has done for the people of England. How much it has done to civilise and
humanise the masses is beginning to be known to all who are interested in social progress,
and I for one am ready to second any vote of thanks that may be proposed to it for this invaluable
service.[15] But when we ask ourselves what it has done to vitalise the nation, we may well
hesitate for an answer. Twenty years ago, in the days of "schedules" and "percentages," elementary
education was, on balance, an actively devitalising agency. The policy of the Education Department
made that inevitable. But things have changed since then; and it is probable that the balance
is now in favour of the elementary school. But the balance, though growing from year to year,
is as yet very small compared with what it will be when the teacher, relieved from the pressure
of the still prevailing demand for "results," is free to take thought for the vital interests
of the child.

Whom shall we blame for the shortcomings of our elementary schools? The Board of Education?
Their Inspectors? The Teachers? The Training Colleges? The Local Authorities? This
was a tall, very tall, thin, shaved in the manner of sailors, ie leaving the beard around the
neck like a bandage. He had more reason for it than most Sarrió neighbors who shaved this
way, because it belonged to the honorable body Navy, while serving as withdrawn. But in the
sea ports, particularly when the population is small, like the one in which we find ourselves,
the maritime element predominates and infiltrates so that all people, could not help it, without realizing
it, adopt certain uses, words and dress of the sailors.

It would have been handsome and gallant Lord of the Caves in their younger days, because today,
seventy-four years, is a vigorous man, erect, bright and piercing eyes, nose hawk, noble and
open front. All his energy and decision announced figure.

Standing on a seat attached to the parapet wall, with huge glasses sea ​​led to the little green
light that shone intermittently yonder.

Was by far the highest figure coming out of the group of spectators.

- Don Melchor, you are here now ... I send a message to his home.

- An hour ago I came - "Monsieur de las Cuevas, separating goggles Face .-- I have seen the boat
from the balcony shortly after sunset.

- I had to guess.

How will you escape had nothing to go out there?

- I have a better
view when I was a lad of twenty years - said Don Melchor with strong
intonation and loud so I hear.

- I believe, I believe, Don Melchor.

-
A fifteen miles I turn a boat bonito.

- I believe, I believe.

-
And if you ask me a little - uttered more loudly still, - I tell the
ports to the frigates crossing for Ferrol.

- Arius, lowered a bit,
Don Melchor - said a voice.

There was suppressed laughter in the dark, because the Lord commanded respect de las Cuevas deep
crewmen.

The angry old sailor turned his head toward the spot where he had left the wisecrack. Esforzóse
to penetrate the darkness in silence a few moments, and at length
said hoarsely

- If I knew who you are, you will soon band I lowered
into the sea.

No one dared say a word, nor was there the slightest attempt at laughter.

In Sarrió was known that Lord of the Caves was quite capable of doing as told. He had served
in the Navy more than forty years, always enjoying the view of brave and honorable officer, but
at the same time of a severity bordering on barbarism. When any ship commander remembered of
our ancient maritime ordinances, Don Melchor was determined to implement them and in all its rigor.
We had terror in the people who had drowned a sailor spend three times under the keel, as
prescribed by the ordinance for certain offenses; more than one hundred were crippled with
sticks or had lifted the skin with the whip. Furthermore there was not Sarrió pilot or sailor
could have with him the regard to sea, so in the knowledge of the time, that the maneuvers
of the vessels, in all the secrets of navigation.

The little green light was approaching slowly.

Perceived as the bulk of the Bella-Paula naked eye, and also two or three black spots near
it, which often changed site. They were the pilot boat and auxiliary boats to pull the boat when
it was necessary. As the wind just blew the corvette remained hoisted all sails. No But he was
too close to the wall for this not constitute a hazard. Al Don Melchor less well understood,
because he began to swear under his breath and restless. Unable to resist, knowing that they
had not heard, shouted:

- Grasp the topsails, Sunday. What are you waiting for?

He had scarcely uttered these words, when they were on the tops of
packages almost imperceptible to the sailors.

- Just happened! -
Don Melchor said.

- Yes, that Sunday is a fool! - Said under the
sailor whom the master of Cuevas had threatened.

 Exemption from the
pressure of a formal external examination has meant much more to them than to the schools for
older children; and the atmosphere of the good infant schools is, in consequence, freer, happier,
more recreative, and more truly educative than that of the upper schools of equivalent merit.
And when we compare grade with grade, we find that the superiority of the elementary infant
schools is still more pronounced. The "Great Public Schools," and the costly preparatory schools
that lead up to them, may or may not be worthy of their high reputation; but as regards facilities
for the education (in school) of their "infants," the "classes" are unquestionably much less
fortunate than the "masses."

[7] Not long ago I happened to enter the Boys' Department of an urban Church School at about
9.15 a.m. The Headmaster was sitting at his desk, drawing up schemes of "secular" work. All
the boys above "Standard III"--94 in number--were grouped together, listening, or pretending
to listen, to a "chalk-and-talk" lecture on "Prayer" [of which there are apparently five varieties,
viz., (1) Invocation, (2) Deprecation, (3) Obsecration, (4) Intercession, (5) Supplication].
The Headmaster explained to me that "of course it was only during the Scripture lesson" that
this overgrouping went on. The lecture on Prayer was given by a young Assistant-master, whose
naive delight in the long words that he rolled out ore rotundo and then chalked up on the blackboard,
had blinded him to the obvious fact that he was making no impression whatever on his audience.

[8] There are many elementary schools which the Diocesan Inspector does not enter. In the "Provided"
or "Council" Schools "undenominational Bible teaching" takes the place of the "definite dogmatic
instruction in religious knowledge" which is tested by Diocesan Inspection. But even when undogmatic
Bible teaching is given, the shadow of an impending examination, external or internal as the
case may be, too often sterilises the efforts of the teacher. Not that the efforts of the teacher
would in any case be productive so long as the attitude of popular thought towards the Bible
remained unchanged. To go into this burning question would involve me in an unjustifiable digression;
but I must be allowed to express my conviction that the teaching of the Bible in our elementary
schools will never be anything but misguided and mischievous until those who are responsible
for it have realised that the Old Testament is the inspired literature of a particular people,
and have ceased to regard it as the authentic biography of the Eternal God. It is to the current
misconception of the meaning and value of the Bible, and the consequent misconception of the
relation of God to Nature and to Man, that the externalism of the West, which is the source
of all the graver defects of modern education, is (as I contend) largely due; and it is useless
to try to remedy those defects so long as we allow our philosophy of life to be perennially
poisoned at its highest springs.

[9] In far too many cases the teacher received a certain proportion of the Grant; and in any
case his value in the market tended to vary directly with his ability to secure a large Grant
for his school by his success in the yearly examination.

[11] Here is another example of the mental blindness which rule-worship in Arithmetic is apt
to induce. The boys in a large "Standard II," who had been spending the whole year in adding,
subtracting, multiplying, and dividing tens of thousands, were given the following sum: A farmer
had 126 sheep. He bought nine. How many had he then? Out of 50 boys, one only worked the sum
correctly. Of the remaining 49, about a third multiplied 126 by 9, another third divided 126
by 9, while the remaining third subtracted 9 from 126.

[12] Reinforced in many cases by suggestive words. I recently found myself in an urban school
while the "Fourth Standard" boys were doing "Composition." The subject--Trees--had already
been dealt with in a preparatory "talk." In front of the class was a blackboard, on which were
written the following words:

                              "fruit, flowers,
   I. Roots tough, strong, stretch, extend.
  II. Trunk thick, branches, bark.
 III. Branches strong, tough, leaves.
  IV. Leaves green, shapes, sizes, beautiful, clothe, autumn, brown."

I am told that sometimes as many as twelve headings are given, each with its own list of suggestive
words.

[13] I was recently present at a large gathering of teachers who had assembled to discuss the
teaching of Drawing and other kindred topics. The district is one in which the gospel of self-help
in Drawing has been preached with diligence and with much apparent success. One of the teachers,
who was expected to support the Board in their crusade against the "flat copy," played the
part of Balaam by reading out letters from certain distinguished R.A.'s, in which the use of
the flat copy in elementary schools was openly advocated. It was evident that those distinguished
R.A.'s knew as much about elementary education as the man in the street knows about naval tactics,
for the arguments by which they supported their paradoxical opinions were worth exactly nothing.
But the salvos of applause, renewed again and again, which greeted the extracts from their
letters showed clearly in which direction the current of subconscious conviction was running
in that evangelised and apparently converted district.

[14] There are few teachers who do not also work from higher motives than these; but there
are very few who are exempt from the pressure of these.

[15] It is pleasant to read that at Southend on Easter Monday (1910) there were 65,000 excursionists
and only two cases of drunkenness. It is also pleasant to hear from an officer who has served
for many years in India that the modern English private soldier in India is an infinitely superior
being to his predecessors, and that India could not now be held by the old type of British
soldier. We must not, however, forget that the "old type" conquered India.

PART II

WHAT MIGHT BE

OR

THE PATH OF SELF-REALISATION

CHAPTER IV

A SCHOOL IN UTOPIA

Having painted in gloomy colours some of the actualities of elementary education, I will now
try to set forth its possibilities. In opposing the actual to the possible, I am perhaps running
the risk of being misunderstood. The possible, as I conceive it, is no mere "fabric of a dream."
What are possibilities for the elementary school, as such, are already actualities in certain
schools. Were it not so, I should not speak of them as possibilities. I do not pretend to be
a prophet, in the vulgar sense of the word. The ends which I am about to set before managers
and teachers are ends which have been achieved, and are being achieved, under entirely normal
conditions, in various parts of the country, and which are therefore not impracticable. There
are many elementary schools in England in which bold and successful departures have been made
from the beaten track; and in each of these cases what is at present a mere possibility for
most schools has been actually realised. And there is one elementary school at least in which
the beaten track has been entirely abandoned, with the result that possibilities (as I may
now call them) which I might perhaps have dismissed on a priori grounds as too fantastic for
serious consideration, have become part of the everyday life of the scholars.

 That school shall now become the theme of my book; for I feel that I
cannot serve the cause of education better than by trying to describe
and interpret the work that is being done in it. The school belongs
to a village which I will call Utopia. It is not an imaginary
village--a village of Nowhere--but a very real village, which can be
reached, as all other villages can, by rail and road. It nestles at
the foot of a long range of hills; and if you will climb the slope
that rises at the back of the village, and look over the level
country that you have left behind, you will see in the distance the
gleaming waters of one of the many seas that wash our shores. The
village is fairly large, as villages go in these days of rural
depopulation; and the school is attended by about 120 children. The
head teacher, whose genius has revolutionised the life, not of the
school only, but of the whole village, is a woman. I will call her
Egeria. She has certainly been my Egeria, in the sense that whatever
modicum of wisdom in matters educational I may happen to possess, I
owe in large measure to her. I have paid her school many visits, and
it has taken me many months of thought to get to what I believe to be
the bed-rock of her philosophy of education,--a philosophy which I
will now attempt to expound.

Two things will strike the stranger who pays his first visit to this school. One is the ceaseless
activity of the children. The other is the bright and happy look on every face. In too many
elementary schools the children are engaged either in laboriously doing nothing,--in listening,
for example, with ill-concealed yawns, to lectures on history, geography, nature-study, and
the rest; or in doing what is only one degree removed from nothing,--working mechanical sums,
transcribing lists of spellings or pieces of composition, drawing diagrams which have no meaning
for them, and so forth. But in this school every child is, as a rule, actively employed. And
bearing in mind that "unimpeded energy" is a recognised source of happiness, the visitor will
probably conjecture that there is a close connection between the activity of the children and
the brightness of their faces.

That the latter feature of the school will arrest his attention is almost certain. Utopia belongs
to a county which is proverbial for the dullness of its rustics, but there is no sign of dullness
on the face of any Utopian child. On the contrary, so radiantly bright are the faces of the
children that something akin to sunshine seems always to fill the school. When he gets to know
the school, the visitor will realise that the brightness of the children is of two kinds,--the
brightness of energy and intelligence, and the brightness of goodness and joy. And when he
gets to know the school as well as I do, he will realise that these two kinds of brightness
are in their essence one.

Let me say something about each of them.

The Utopian child is alive, alert, active, full of latent energy, ready to act, to do things,
to turn his mind to things, to turn his hand to things, to turn his desire to things, to turn
his whole being to things. There is no trace in this school of the mental lethargy which, in
spite of the ceaseless activity of the teachers, pervades the atmosphere of so many elementary
schools; no trace of the fatal inertness on the part of the child, which is the outcome of
five or six years of systematic repression and compulsory inaction. The air of the school is
electrical with energy. We are obviously in the presence of an active and vigorous life.

And the activity of the Utopian child is his own activity. It is a fountain which springs up
in himself. Unlike the ordinary school-child, he can do things on his own account. He does
not wait, in the helplessness of passive obedience, for his teacher to tell him what he is
to do and how he is to do it. He does not even wait, in the bewilderment of self-distrust,
for his teacher to give him a lead. If a new situation arises, he deals with it with promptitude
and decision. His solution of the problem which it involves may be incorrect, but at any rate
it will be a solution. He will have faced a difficulty and grappled with it, instead of having
waited inertly for something to turn up. His initiative has evidently been developed pari passu
with his intelligence; and the result of this is that he can think things out for himself,
that he can devise ways and means, that he can purpose, that he can plan.

In all these matters the Utopian child differs widely and deeply from the less fortunate child
who has to attend a more ordinary type of elementary school. But when we turn to the other
aspect of the Utopian brightness, when we consider it as the reflected light of goodness and
joy, we find that the difference between the two children is wider and deeper still. There
are many schools outside Utopia that pride themselves on the excellence of their discipline;
but I am inclined to think that in some at least of these the self-satisfaction of the teacher
is equivalent to a confession of failure. There was a time when every elementary school received
a large grant for instruction and a small grant for discipline; and inspectors were supposed
to report separately on each of these aspects of the school's life. A strange misconception
of the meaning and purpose of education underlay this artificial distinction; but on that we
need not dwell. Were an inspector called upon to report on the discipline of the Utopian school,
his report would be brief. There is no discipline in the school. There is no need for any.
The function of the strict disciplinarian is to shut down, and, if necessary, sit upon, the
safety-valve of misconduct. But in Utopia, where all the energies of the children are fully
and happily employed, that safety-valve has never to be used. Each child in turn is so happy
in his school life that the idea of being naughty never enters his head. One cannot remain
long in the school without realising that in its atmosphere

  Love is an unerring light,
  And joy its own security.

It recently happened that on a certain day one of the assistant-teachers had to go to a hospital,
that another had to take her there, that the third was ill in bed, and that Egeria--the only
available member of the staff--was detained by one of the managers for half-an-hour on her
way to school. The school was thus left without a teacher. On entering it, Egeria found all
the children in their places and at work. They had looked at the time-table, had chosen some
of the older scholars to take the lower classes, and had settled down happily and in perfect
order. This incident proves to demonstration that the morale of the school has somehow or other
been carried far beyond the limits of what is usually understood by discipline. I have seen
historical scenes acted with much vigour by some of the children in the first class, and applauded
with equal vigour by their class-mates, while all the time the children in the second class,
who were drawing flowers in the same room, never lifted their eyes from their desks. Yet no
children can laugh more merrily or more unrestrainedly than these, or make a greater uproar
when it is fitting that they should do so.

And if there is no need for punishment, or any other form of repression, in this school, it
is equally true that there is no need for rewards. To one who has been taught to regard competition
in school as a sacred duty, and the winning of prizes as a laudable object of the scholar's
ambition, this may seem strange. But so it is. No child has the slightest desire to outstrip
his fellows or rise to the top of his class. Joy in their work, pride in their school, devotion
to their teacher, are sufficient incentives to industry. Were the stimulus of competition added
to these, neither the zeal nor the interest of the children would be quickened one whit, but
a discordant element would be introduced into their school life. Happy as he obviously is in
his own school life, it would add nothing to the happiness of the Utopian to feel that he had
outstripped his class-mates and won a prize for his achievement. So far, indeed, are these
children from wishing to shine at the expense of others, that if they think Egeria has done
less than justice to the work of some one child, the rest of the class will go out of their
way to call her attention to it. If some children are brighter, cleverer, and more advanced
than others, the reward of their progress is that they are allowed to help on those who lag
behind. This is especially noticeable in Drawing, in which the pre-eminence of one or two children
has again and again had the effect of lifting the work of the whole class to a higher level.
But the laggards are as far from being discouraged by their failure as are the more advanced
scholars from being puffed up by their success. From the highest to the lowest, all are doing
their best and all are happy together.

From morals to manners the transition is obvious and direct. Be the explanation what it may,
the whole atmosphere of this school is evidently fatal to selfishness and self-assertion; and
in such an atmosphere good manners will spring up spontaneously among the children, and will
scarcely need to be inculcated, for the essence of courtesy is forgetfulness of self and consideration
of others in the smaller affairs of social life. The general bearing of the Utopian children
hits the happy mean between aggressive familiarity and uncouth shyness,--each a form of self-conscious
egoism,--just as their bearing in school hits the happy mean between laxity and undue constraint.
They welcome the stranger as a friend, take his goodwill for granted, take him into their confidence,
and show him, tactfully and unostentatiously, many pretty courtesies. And they do all this,
not because they have been drilled into doing it, but because it is their nature to do it,
because their overflowing sympathy and goodwill must needs express themselves in and through
the channels of courtesy and kindness. There is no trace of sullen self-repression in this
school. Accustomed (as we shall presently see) to express themselves in various ways, the children
cannot entertain kindly feelings without seeking some vent for them. But whether their kindly
feelings lead them to dance in a ring round their own inspector, singing "For he's a jolly
good fellow," or to escort another visitor, on his departure, through the playground with their
arms in his, their tact,--which is the outcome, partly of their self-forgetfulness, partly
of the training which their perceptive faculties are always receiving,--is unfailing, and they
never allow friendliness to degenerate into undue familiarity.

There is one other feature of the school life which I cannot pass over. I have never been in
a school in which the love of what is beautiful in Nature is so strong or so sincere as in
this. The æsthetic sense of the Utopian child has not been deliberately trained, but it has
been allowed, and even encouraged, to unfold itself; and the appeal that beauty makes to the
heart meets in consequence with a ready response. Of the truth of this statement I could, if
necessary, give many proofs. One must suffice. The children, who are adepts at drawing with
brush and pencil, wander in field and lane with sketch-books in their hands; and one of them
at least was so moved by the beauty of a winter sunrise, as seen from his cottage window, that,
in his own words, he felt he must try to paint it, the result being a water-colour sketch which
I have shown to a competent artist, who tells me that the feeling in the sky is quite wonderful.

In this brief preliminary sketch of the more salient features of the Utopian school, I have,
I hope, said enough to show that its scholars differ toto coelo from those who attend that
familiar type of school which I have recently described. Yet the Utopian children are made
of the same clay as the children of other villages. If anything, indeed, the clay is heavier
and more stubborn in Utopia than elsewhere. Some ten or twelve years ago, when Egeria took
charge of the school, the children were dull, lifeless, listless, resourceless. Now they are
bright, intelligent, happy, responsive, overflowing with life, interested in many things, full
of ability and resource. How has this change been wrought? Not by veneering or even inoculating
the children with good qualities, but simply by allowing their better and higher nature to
evolve itself freely, naturally, and under favourable conditions.

That the child's better and higher nature is his real nature, is the assumption--let me rather
say, the profound conviction--on which Egeria's whole system of education has been based. In
basing it on this assumption, she has made a bold departure from the highway which has been
blindly followed for many centuries. We have seen that the basis of education in this country,
as in Christendom generally, is the doctrine of original sin. It is taken for granted by those
who train the child that his nature, if allowed to develop itself freely, will grow in the
wrong direction, and will therefore lead him astray; and that it is the function of education
to counteract this tendency, to do violence to the child's nature, to compel it by main force
to grow (or make a pretence of growing) in the right direction, to subject it to perpetual
repression and constraint. The wild whoops to which children so often give vent, when released
from school, show that a period of unnatural tension has come to an end; and in these, and
in the further conduct of the released child--in the roughness, rudeness, and bad language,
of which the passer-by (especially in towns) not infrequently has to complain--we see a rebound
from this state of tension, an instinctive protest against the constraint to which he has been
subjected for so many hours. The result of all this is that the child leads two lives, a life
of unnatural repression and constraint in school, and a life--also unnatural, though it is
supposed to be the expression of his nature--of reaction and protest out of school. Such a
dislocation of the child's daily life is not likely to conduce to his well-being; while the
teacher's assumption that his rôle in school is essentially active, and that of the child essentially
passive, will lead at last to his turning his back on the root-idea of growth, to his forgetting
that the child is a living and therefore a growing organism, to his regarding the child as
clay in his hands, to be "remoulded" by him "to his heart's desire," or even as a tabula rasa,
on which he is to inscribe words and other symbols at his will.

In Utopia the training which the child receives may be said to be based on the doctrine of
original goodness. It is taken for granted by Egeria that the child is neither a lump of clay
nor a tabula rasa, but a "living soul"; that growth is of the very essence of his being; and
that the normal child, if allowed to make natural growth under reasonably favourable conditions,
will grow happily and well. It is taken for granted that the potencies of his nature are well
worth realising; that the end of his being--the ideal type towards which the natural course
of his development tends to take him--is intrinsically good; in fine, that he is by nature
a "child of God" rather than a "child of wrath." It is therefore taken for granted that growth
is in itself a good thing, a move in the right direction; and that to foster growth, to make
its conditions as favourable as possible, to give it the food, the guidance, and the stimulus
that it needs, is the best thing that education can do for the child. Some honest men who were there wanted to raise and throw the constable
out of church, to avoid scandal. But my master stopped them hand and ordered all under penalty
of excommunication not in your way, rather than let him say everything he wanted. And thus,
he too was silent, while the sheriff said everything I said.

As silent, my master asked if I wanted to say more, say it.

The sheriff said:

"Fed is more to say about you and your dirty, but enough for now."

Mr. Commissioner knelt in the pulpit, and his hands and looked up to heaven said thus:

"Lord God, to Whom nothing is hidden and everything manifest, for whom nothing is impossible,
everything is possible, you know the truth and how I have been accused unjustly. In As for myself,
I forgive you because you, Lord, forgive me. Do not look at anyone who does not know what
he says or does, but the injury done to Thee, I pray, I pray for justice and not disregard it Because
someone here, that thinking of taking this holy bull, giving credit the false words of the
man, they will not take. And it is so harmful to others, I beg you, Lord, do not disregard it,
but a miracle here, and it thus: if it is true what it says and bring
evil and falsehood, this pulpit to sink me and meta hundred feet into
the ground, where he and I ever be seen again.

And if it's true what I say, he, won over by the devil to remove and deprive those who are present
as great good, speaks evil, is also known punished and all his malice. "

He had hardly finished his prayer devout sir, when the black sheriff of the state falls and
gives such a blow on the ground that resounded throughout the church,
and began to howl and throw foaming at the mouth and twist it and
make grimaces with the gesture, kicking and hand, rolling around on
the floor and another part.

The shouts and cries of the people was so great that could not hear
each other.

Some were really terrified.

Some said

"The worth God help him."

Others:

"It serves him right, it stirred up such false testimony."

Finally, some who were there, and in my opinion not really afraid,
they came and locked him arms, with which he'd been thrashing those
who were near him.

Others rushed by the legs and had a hard time because there was no mule in the world so hard
Pulling kick. And so I had a great time, because more than fifteen men were upon him, and hit them
all, and if neglected, in their noses.

By the way, my master was in the pulpit on his knees, hands and eyes
in the sky, carried in the divine essence, that the plant and noise
and voices in the church had no part in apartalle of divine contemplation.

Those

good men went to him and woke him up crying and begged him aid the poor man was dying, and
not to look at things past nor to his bad, because as them had to
pay, but if anything could take that man out of danger passion and
suffering, for God's sake do so, because it was obvious the guilt
of the guilty and his truth and goodness, as to your request and vengeance,
the Lord did not prolong the punishment.

Mr. Commissioner, as if waking from a sweet dream, looked and looked at the offender and all
those who were her surrounding, and very slowly he said:

"Good men, you do habíades to pray for a man in whom God has so signally noted, but as he commands
us not to return evil for evil and forgive injuries, with confidence we beg you to do what he commands
us, and His Majesty forgive it offended you by putting obstacles in their holy faith. Let's all
suplicalle. "

And so it came down the pulpit and instructed to devoutly beseeching our Lord had for good
to forgive the sinner, and get back on their health and sanity, and releasing the devil, if His
Majesty had allowed for his great sin he entered. They all got down knees, and before the
altar with the clergy began to softly chant a litany. And coming him with the cross and holy
water, having sung about him, my master, put their hands to heaven
and eyes that seemed almost nothing but a little white, begins a sentence
no less long than devout, with which he mourn all the people as often
Hazer in the sermons of Passion, a preacher and devoted audience,
pleading with our Lord, it was not the death of the sinner, but his
life and repentance, that he aimed persuaded by the devil and death
and sin, he wanted to forgive and give life and health to repent and
confess their sins.

And this fact, he ordered the bull and putting it on the head, and then the sinner of a constable
gradually began to get better and turn itself. And when he was back in his, and fell at the foot of
the Commissioner and demandóle forgiveness, and admitted that the mouth that and command of
the devil, an injury done to him anger and revenge, the other, more primary because the devil
would really be hurt the good that could be made to take the bull. Mr. My master forgave him, and
friendships were made between them, and take the bull was so haste,
almost a living soul in the place was not without it: husbands and
wives, sons and daughters boys and girls.

Divulgóse the news of what happened in the neighboring towns, and when we got to them, did not
give a sermon or go to church, came to the inn to take like pears
to make themselves freely.

So in ten or twelve more of those alderredor Wherever we went, my master threw a good thousand
indulgences without preaching a sermon.

When he did the test, I confess my sin that I was also shocked and thought dello ANSI was,
like many others, but after seeing the laughter and fun that my master and the officer had
and doing business, it had all been met by the industrious and inventive my master. {Acaeciónos
elsewhere, which I will not name in his honor, the following, and my master was two or three sermons
preached and God do the bull took. Seen by the Case my master what had happened and that, although
he said were wary of a year, and were not taking advantage as rebels take it and that his work was
lost, he rang the bells to say goodbye. And made his sermon and fired from the pulpit, and
we wanted down, called the clerk and me, who was charged with a wallet, and Hizon reach the first
step, and took the sheriff the hands that had and had not in the
bags, put them near his feet, and it became a place in the pulpit
with a happy face and throw from there, tens and twenties in twenty
of his bulls to all parties, saying:

"My brethren, take, take of
the graces God sends you to your homes, and do not hurts, it is so
pious work the redemption of Christian captives which are land Moors.

Because they do not renege on our holy faith and go to the pains of hell, even Help them with
your charity and five paternosters and five Hail Marys, to come out of captivity. And yet
also take advantage for the parents and brothers and relatives you have in Purgatory, as you will
see in this holy bull. "

As the people saw them throw ANSI as something that was for nothing
and be coming from the hand of God, they took more take, even for
children from the cradle and all its defunct, having from children
to the lowliest servant, counting on their fingers.

Vimon in such haste, as I aínas I'd just break a poor old coat he had, so that VM certify that
in little more than an hour was no bull in the panniers, and it was necessary go to the inn for
more.

Finished taking all my master said from the pulpit to his clerk and the council that rise and,
to be known who were the ones to enjoy the holy indulgences and pardons
of the holy bull, and that he give a good account of who had sent
him, were written.

And then they all very willingly said they had taken, having ordered the children and servants
and the deceased. Made his inventory, he asked the mayors to charity, because he had to do elsewhere,
ordered the clerk to give him authority to inventory and memory of those who were there, which he said
the clerk, were more than two thousand. Done this, he was dismissed with much peace and love,
and so they patros us of this place, and even before that we left, he was asked by the curate
and the aldermen if Bull profit the infants who were in the womb, to which he replied that
according to letters he had studied not, they might have to ask doctors older than him, and
that this was what I felt about this business.

ANSI E we departed, leaving all very happy with the good business. My master said to the bailiff and
clerk:

"What do you think, as these villains, that just say" old Christians
are "without charities, think to be saved without compromising any
of their holdings?

Well, for the life of graduate Pascasio Gómez, which expense they'll more than ten captives. "

And
thus we went to another place at that end of Toledo, to the Channel, said, where others encounter's
overwhelming to take bulls.

Made my master and the others who were going our proceedings, two parties that were there had not
been thrown thirty bulls. Seen by my master the great destruction and the great expense he had, (and)
the crafty ardideza my master had to make spent with his bulls, was that this day DIJA high mass,
and after finishing the sermon and returned to the altar, took a cross that brought a little
more than an inch, and a brazier of fire above the altar they had, which had brought to warm
his hands because it was great cold, put him behind the missal without anyone looking into
this and there without saying anything he put the cross above the fire. And, because the Mass
was over and tossed the blessing, he took it with a handkerchief, tightly wrapped the cross in
his right hand and the other the bull, and so they got to the season step of the altar, where he
was kissing the cross, and beckoned them to come to worship the cross.

And thus came the first mayor and the elders of the place, coming one to one as used. The first
that came, it was a old mayor, although he gave kiss rather delicate cross is burned their
faces and quickly took off. Seeing this my master said to him:

"Step, I am, Mr. Mayor! Miracle!"

And thus another seven or eight, and they all said:

"Step, gentlemen!

Miracle!"

When he saw that the rostriquemados enough to witness the miracle, did not want to give more to
kiss. Climbed up to the altar and said wonderful things there, saying that the low charity that
was in them had God allowed this miracle and that cross was to be taken to the holy church of his
diocese, that the little charity that the people had, the cross burning. I was so fast that there
was in taking the bull, not enough two notaries neither the clerics nor sacristanes writing. I
think certainly that took more than three thousand bulls, as I have said to VM then to leave,
he went with great reverence, as a reason, to take the Holy Cross, saying he had to do engastonar
in gold, as was fitting. He was begged much of the council and clergy of the place to leave
that holy cross there in memory of the miracle occurred there. He in no way wanted to do and finally
begged by many, was left; with another cross that gave old woman
who had old money, which can weigh two or three pounds, they said.

And thus we departed happy with the good exchange and have negotiated well. In all he saw no
one above except me, because I climbed the altar to see if anything had been blisters, for putting
it into recovery, as usual I was his custom. And there saw me, he began his finger in his mouth
signaling me to shut up. I long did it because I met, but, after I saw the miracle could not pour
it out in me, but fear of my astute master did not let me communicate with anyone, and never
left me, because I swore not discovered the miracle.

And thus I did until now}.

And while a young boy, much cayóme in grace, and I said to myself:

"WITH THESE many must these mockers on innocent people!"

Finally, I was with my fifth master about four months, which also
passed {sufficient hardships, but I was well fed at the expense of
priests and other clergy would do to preach.}

Sixth Treaty How Lazaro
Went to a chaplain, and what happened to him

Then I began, I settled
with a painting master Molella tambourines for the colors, and also
I had a thousand evils.

Already at this time a good little boy, coming a day in the great church, a chaplain I got by
him, and set me on to a donkey and four pitchers and a whip, and I began to water by the cibdad.
This was the first step I got to come to achieve good life because
my mouth was measured.

Given each day to my master thirty coppers earned, and Saturday was up to me, and everything
else during the week, thirty coppers.

FUEM so well in the job that after four years I used it, to bring
in profit safe place, saved for me very honestly wear old clothes,
which bought a doublet of fustian old and frayed coat with braid on
the sleeves and gate, and a cape that had been velvety, and an old
sword first de Cuellar.

Soon as he saw me dressed as a gentleman, I told my master to take
his donkey, he did not want more follow that profession.

Seventh Treaty How Lazaro Went to a sheriff, and what befell him

Dismissed the chaplain, I settled for a man of justice with a sheriff, but very short lived with
it, because it seems dangerous calling, mostly, that night we ran to me and my love with stones
and sticks a withdrawn, and my master, who waited, treated badly, but I do not hit. This renounced
the deal.

And thinking about how to live my seat would have rest and win something for old age God lit up
and get on track and profitable way, and with the help of some friends and gentlemen, all my toil
and hardships up to that time were paid to achieve what I sought, it was a real job, seeing
that no one who prospers except those who have; in which I live today and I live to serve God
and your grace.

And it is that I have charge of pitching the wine sold in this city, and in auctions and lost, accompanying
those who suffer persecution for justice and loudly declare their crimes: preacher, speaking
in plain {, in which office a day hanging a pickpocket in Toledo
and had a good rope of straw, I met and I realized that the sentence
my blind love Escalona had said, and regretted the poor payment I
gave him so much who taught me that, after God, he gave me to reach
the state industry that now this.}

Hame happened so well, I've used
so easily, that almost all things regarding trade go through my hand
while across the city that out wine to sell or something, if Lázaro
de Tormes does not understand it, it is of no benefit.

At this time, seeing my ability and good living, taking picture of me Mr. archpriest Sant Salvador,
my lord, servant and friend of your worship, because it proclaimed
its wines wanted me to marry her maid, and seen for myself that this
person could not come but right and advantage, I resolved to do. "Work while you work, and play while you
play," is one of those trite maxims which have been unintelligently repeated till they have
lost whatever value they may once have possessed. "Work while you play, and play while you
work," seems to be Egeria's substitute for it; and she would, I think, do well to write those
words over the porch of her school.

In the ordinary elementary school a fair amount of acting goes on in the infant department,
and an occasional attempt is made, in one of the higher classes of the upper department, to
act a scene from Shakespeare or an episode in English history. But during the five years or
so of school life which intervene between the infant department and "Standard VI," the dramatic
instinct is as a rule entirely neglected; and the consequent outgrowth of self-consciousness
in the children is too often a fatal obstacle to the success of the spasmodic attempts at dramatisation
which are made in the higher classes.

In Utopia "acting" is a vital part of the school life of every class, and every subject that
admits of dramatic treatment is systematically dramatised. In History, for example, when the
course of their study brings them to a suitable episode, the children set to work to dramatise
it. With this end in view, they consult some advanced text-book or historical novel or other
book of reference, and having studied with care the particular chapter in which they are interested,
and having decided among themselves who are to play what parts, they proceed to make up their
own dialogues, and their own costumes and other accessories. They then act the scene, putting
their own interpretation on the various parts, and receiving the stimulus and guidance of Egeria's
sympathetic and moeutic criticism. Their class-mates and the rest of the children in the main
room look on, with their history books open in front of them, and applaud; and, by gradually
familiarising themselves with the various parts, qualify themselves half-unconsciously to act
as under-studies in the particular scene, and in due course to play their own parts as interpreters
of some other historical episode. I know of no treatment of history which is so effective as
this for young children. The actual knowledge of the facts of history which a child carries
away with him from an elementary school cannot well be large, and is, in many cases, a negligible
quantity. But the child who has once acted history will always be interested in it, and being
interested in it will be able, without making a formal study of it, to absorb its spirit, its
atmosphere, and the more significant of its facts. Nor do the advantages of the dramatic treatment
of history end with the subject itself. The actors in these historical scenes are, as I have
said, expressing their own interpretation of the various parts, and their own perception of
the meaning of each episode as a whole. This means that they are training their imaginative
sympathy,--a sovereign faculty which of all faculties is perhaps the most emancipative and
expansive,--and training it, as I can testify, with striking success; for the dramatic power
which they display is remarkable, and can have been generated by nothing less than sympathetic
insight into the feelings of the various historical personages and the possibilities of the
various situations.

It is probable that History lends itself more readily to dramatic treatment than any other
subject, but it is by no means the only subject that is dramatised in Utopia. An interest in
Geography is awakened by scenes in foreign lands and episodes from books of travel being acted
by the children. An interest in Arithmetic, by a shop being opened, which is well equipped
with weights, measures, and cardboard money, and in which a salesman stands behind the counter
and sells goods to a succession of customers. An interest in Literature by the acting, with
improvised costumes, of passages from Shakespeare's plays, or scenes from Scott's and Dickens'
novels. Simple plays to illustrate Nature-study are acted by the younger children; while the
Folk Songs, which, as we shall see, play a prominent part in the musical life of the children,
are acted as well as sung.

However rude and simple the histrionic efforts of the children may be, they are doing two things
for the actors. They are giving them a living interest in the various subjects that are dramatised;
and, by teaching them to identify themselves, if only for a moment, with other human beings,
they are leading them into the path of tolerance, of compassion, of charity, of sympathy,--the
ever-widening path which makes at last for Nirvânic oneness with the One Life.[17]

(3) The Artistic Instinct.

The desire to reproduce with pencil, paint, or clay the form and colour of the outward world
will, if duly cultivated, gradually transform itself into the desire to feel, to understand,
to interpret, to express, not the form and colour only of the outward world, but also that
less palpable but more spiritual quality which we call beauty. But in order that this transformation
may take place, the child must always endeavour to reproduce with due fidelity the more palpable
qualities of colour and form. In this endeavour he must bring many faculties into play. He
must observe closely and attentively. He must reflect on what he observes. He must reflect
on what he himself is doing. He must compare his work with the original, and try to discover
how far he has succeeded, and where he has gone astray. The more faithfully he tries to reproduce
what he has seen, the clearer and surer will be his insight into the less palpable properties
of things,--into those details, those aspects, those qualities, which do not reveal themselves
to the first careless glance, but which will gradually reveal themselves to those who will
take the trouble to discover them. When he is asked to reproduce things which are intrinsically
beautiful--flowers, branches, buds, shells, butterflies, and the like--he begins to realise
that if his work is to be successful, he must do justice to many impalpable, though not imperceptible,
details which go to the making up of beauty. So the sense of beauty, the feeling for it, the
desire to bring it into his work, grows up in his heart; and a new kind of fidelity--fidelity
to feeling rather than to fact (if I may speak for the moment in the delusive language of dualism)--begins
to weave itself into his artistic consciousness.

If there is any school in England in which fidelity to feeling has evolved itself out of fidelity
to fact, that school is in the village of Utopia. Some ten or twelve years ago a decree went
out from Whitehall that Drawing was to be taught in all the elementary schools in England.
Egeria at once took the children into her confidence, and said to them: "You have now got to
learn to draw: you don't know how to draw, and I don't know how to draw, but we must all set
to work and see what we can do." A few years later the school was visited by the inspector
to whose zeal as a prophet, and skill as an expositor and teacher, the transformation in the
teaching of drawing which is gradually taking effect in all parts of the country, has been
largely due. Here is the report[18] that he wrote after his visit--

"In this school the teaching of Drawing reaches the highest educational level I have hitherto
met with in our elementary schools, and the results are the genuine expression of the children's
own thoughts. Flat copies are not used, and the scholars evolve their own technique, for the
Head Teacher is not strong herself in this respect. The development of thought carries with
it the development of skill, and this is clearly seen in the children's drawings, which show
good form and proportion, some knowledge of light and shade, a delicate and refined perception
of colour, and a wonderful power of dealing with the difficulties of foreshortening. The central
law is self-effort,--confidence and self-reliance follow. The spontaneous activities of the
children are duly recognised, and the latter decide what to draw, how to draw it, and the materials
to be used. One cannot remain long in the school without observing the absence of that timidity,
that haunting fear of making a mistake, which paralyses the minds and bodies of so many of
our children. Under the influence of the Head Teacher the children become acute critics. Her
methods coincide so exactly with those which I have long been advocating, that I give them
in her own words--

"'I gave each child an ivy-leaf and said, "Now look well at it." We talked about its peculiarities,
looking at it all the time, and then I told them to draw one, still looking back to the leaf
from time to time. Then I examined their drawings. A good many were, of course, faulty. In
those cases I did not say, "No, you are wrong; this is the way," and go to the blackboard.
I said, "In such and such a part is yours the same as the leaf? What is different? How can
you alter it?" etc., etc. I make them tell me their faults. There was no blackboard demonstration.'

"From a careful examination of their work it is clear that the children have not only been
taught to draw, but that they love and enjoy their drawing. Form and colour are not only seen,
but understood and felt. The children are impelled by an irresistible desire to reach and express
the truth, and are thus carried along an ever-moving path of educative action."

I have already spoken of the love of visible beauty which is a characteristic feature of the
life of this school. It is in the drawing lesson that this love of beauty has in the main evolved
itself. Other influences have no doubt been at work. Nature-study and literature, for example,
have, as taught in this school, done much to foster the children's latent love of beauty; but
had drawing never been taught, the influence of those subjects would have been much less effective
than it has been. It is in the struggle to express what he perceives that the Utopian child
has gradually strengthened and deepened his perceptive powers, till his sight has transformed
itself into insight, and form and colour have come to be interpreted by him through the medium
of the beauty which is behind them,--his feeling of beauty having, little by little, been awakened
and evolved by his unceasing efforts to interpret the vraie vérité of form and colour, which,
as he now begins to learn, are beauty's outward self.

(4) The Musical Instinct.

In the development of the artistic sense the path of imitation is followed until it leads at
last to heights which it cannot scale. The development of the musical sense takes from the
first a widely different path. Nature has a beautiful music of her own, but the child seldom
attempts to imitate this. Music belongs to the soul even more than to the outward world. So
at least one feels disposed to think. But perhaps it is more correct to say that in the presence
of music the provisional distinction between inward and outward, between the soul and the surrounding
world, becomes wholly effaced. Expression is always the counterpart of perception; and we may
rest assured that the deep, subtle, and elusive feelings to which music gives utterance have
reality for their counterpart. The musician does not often reproduce in his compositions the
audible sounds of the outward world,--the voices of animals, the songs of birds, the rustle
of leaves, the murmur of the sea, the sighing of the breeze, the thunder of the storm. What
he does reproduce is the music that awakes in his soul when the emotions which these sounds
kindle begin to struggle for expression,--the music that is behind all the audible sounds,
and perhaps also behind all the inaudible vibrations of Nature,--the music that is in his heart
because it is also at the heart of Nature,--the rhythm of the Universe, as one may perhaps
call it for lack of a fitter phrase. It is the sense of this rhythm which inspires the great
Composer when he builds up his masterpieces. It is the sense of this rhythm which inspires
the child when, in the joy of his heart, he breaks spontaneously into dance and song. To bring
the rhythm of the Universe into the daily life of the child, to give free play to his instinctive
sense of its all-pervading presence, is one of the highest functions of the teacher. And the
more carefully the sense of rhythm is cultivated, the more does it tend to spiritualise itself,
and the more profound and more vital is the life which it struggles to interpret and evolve.
There is no instinct which is so deeply seated as the musical. It is possible for a child,
it is possible for a whole class of children, to sing out of the depths of the soul; and when
this happens we may be sure that a fountain of spiritual joy has been unsealed, and that a
great and sacred mystery has been unveiled. There is a school in one of the poorest slums of
a large town, in which, some two or three years ago, the children were taught to sing, and
the teachers to teach singing, by an inspired "master" who believes that to lift the sluices
of spiritual feeling is to quicken into ever-increasing activity its hidden springs; and neither
the teachers nor the children have yet forgotten their lesson. The children are poor, pale,
thin, unkempt, ill-clad, unlovely; but I am told that when they sing their faces are transfigured,
and they all become beautiful.

Egeria is an accomplished musician, and though Utopia belongs to one of the unmusical counties
of England, she has found it easy to awaken the musical instinct in the hearts of its children.
A few years ago she introduced the old English Folk Songs and Morris Dances into the school.
The children took to them at once as ducklings take to the water; and within a year they were
able to give an admirably successful performance of some two dozen songs and dances in the
village hall. Some of these had been rehearsed only once; but the children, thanks to their
having been systematically trained to educate themselves, are so versatile and resourceful
that every item on their programme was a complete success. The Folk Songs and Morris Dances
are still the delight of the children. They are ever adding to their repertory of songs; and
when they go into the playground for recreation, they at once form into small groups for Morris
Dancing, the older children taking the little ones in hand, and initiating them into the pleasures
of rhythmical movement.

There is another way in which Egeria brings music into the lives of the children. In her own
words, she "sets many of their lessons to music." For example, when they are doing needlework
or drawing or any other quiet lesson, she plays high-class music to them, which forms a background
to their efforts and their thoughts, and which gradually weaves itself, on the one hand into
the outward and visible work that they are doing, and on the other hand into the mysterious
tissue of their inward life.

(5) The Inquisitive Instinct.

As the inquisitive instinct makes the child an intolerable nuisance to his ignorant and indolent
elders, it is but natural that in the unenlightened school, as in the unenlightened home, it
should be forcibly exterminated. It is through the agency of the formula "Don't speak till
you are spoken to," that its destruction is usually effected. But under Egeria's ægis conversation
in school hours is, as we have seen, freely encouraged, and the child's right to ask questions
fully recognised; and one may therefore conjecture that this proscribed and outlawed instinct
will find a safe asylum in her school. Whatever lesson may be in progress, the Utopian children
are allowed, and even expected, to seek for illumination whenever they find themselves in the
dark, to pause inquiringly at every obstacle to their understanding what they have seen or
heard or read.

The encouragement which is given in Utopia to the child who seeks to gratify his desire for
knowledge, is positive as well as negative. When the obstacles which education usually places
in his path have been removed, it is found that the whole atmosphere of the school is favourable
to the growth of his inquisitive instinct. At every turn he is called upon to plan and contrive,
and is thus made to realise his own limitations, and to try to escape from them. Whatever he
may have in hand,--be it the preparation for acting a new scene, or the interpretation of a
new Folk Song or Morris Dance, or the invention of a new school game, or the thinking out some
new way of treating a "subject,"--he is sure to find that knowledge is needed if he is to achieve
success; and his desire for knowledge is therefore continually stimulated by the demands that
his own initiative and activity are ever making upon him.

But it is in the "Nature lesson" that the inquisitive instinct finds in Utopia its freest scope
and its fullest opportunity. To one who had persuaded himself of the innate stupidity of the
average English child, a Nature lesson in Utopia would come as a revelation. He would learn
for the first time that, far from being innately stupid, the average English child has it in
him to reach a very high level of keenness, acuteness, and intellectual activity. Whenever
a lesson is given on a natural object, e.g. a flower or a leaf, every child has a specimen
and a lens. The object is then closely and carefully observed, in the hope of discovering features
in it which might escape the unobservant. Whenever such features are discovered the children
try to account for them. In these attempts they display much ingenuity and intelligence, and
are led on by Egeria in the direction of the true explanation of each phenomenon, and the relation
of this to what they know of the object as a whole, and of its meaning and function. The eagerness
of the children to volunteer explanations of the facts that they observe is only equalled by
the intelligence with which they grasp the general bearing of the problems that confront them,
and the resourcefulness and quickness of wit with which they make repeated attempts to solve them.

And these are not the only qualities to which the Nature lesson gives free play. It is interesting
to note that as on the one hand the inquisitive instinct is obviously near of kin to the communicative,
so on the other hand it is ever tending to link itself to the artistic. The closeness of observation
which is the basis of success in Nature-study, and by means of which the inquisitive instinct
is fed and strengthened, is also the basis of success in drawing; and in each case it leads
beyond itself into a region in which it has to be supplemented by, and even transfigured into,
imagination, the faculty by means of which we observe what is at once impalpable and real.[19]
And in that region the distinction between truth and beauty is ever tending to efface itself.
The master sculptor is always an accomplished anatomist; and the genuine naturalist is a lover
and admirer, as well as a student, of Nature. It has been well said that "to see things in
their beauty is to see them in their truth"; and it is perhaps equally, though more remotely,
true that to see things in their truth is to see them in their beauty. That being so, we need
not wonder that among the Utopian children the love of what is beautiful in Nature has grown
continuously with the growth of their interest in Nature-study, and that the inquisitive instinct
is ever Reinforcing and being reinforced by the artistic.

(6) The Constructive Instinct.

Active, intelligent, resourceful, self-helpful, the Utopian child takes to handwork of various
kinds as readily and almost as spontaneously as the birds in spring-time take to the work of
nest-building. It must indeed be admitted that the systematic instruction in Gardening, Cookery,
and Woodwork which warrants the payment of special grants for these "subjects" is not given.
But informal gardening, informal cookery, and informal woodwork are vital features of the school
life. Nor are the children's essays in handwork limited to these subjects. Whatever implement,
instrument, or other contrivance may be needed in order to illustrate or otherwise help forward
the general work of the school will be made by the children, so far as their technical ability
and the resources of the school permit. For example, they will make fences, seats, frames,
and sheds for their gardens, and "properties" and dresses for their dramatic performances.
They will illustrate their games and lessons by means of simple modelling and paper-cutting.
The older girls will dress dolls for the little ones to their own fancy, using their own discretion
as regards material, style of dress, and method of dress-making. And so on.

But ready as the Utopian children are to use their hands, and clever as they are at using them,
it is not through manual activity only that the development of their constructive instinct
is carried on. One of the characteristic features of the school is the largeness of the scale
on which the constructive powers of the children are encouraged to energise, and the frequency
and variety of the demands that are made upon them. The Utopian child is expected to educate
himself, not merely in the sense of doing by and for himself whatever task may be set him,
but also in the sense of devising new tasks for himself, in thinking out new ways of treating
the different subjects that appear on the school time-table, in taking thought for the whole
scheme of his education. As the years go by, Egeria makes more and greater demands on the initiative
and the intelligence of the children, her aim being apparently to transform the school by slow
degrees into a self-governing community which, under her presidency, shall order its own life
and work out its own salvation. This means, as I have lately pointed out, that at every turn
the Utopian child is being called upon to plan and contrive; and this, again, means that his
constructive instinct, with his inquisitive instinct as its other self, is being continually
exercised on the widest possible field and under the most stimulating of all influences. The
result of this is that reciprocal action is ever going on in his mind between the faculties
that acquire knowledge and the faculties that apply it,--action which makes for the rapid and
healthy growth of both sets of faculties, and which is therefore ever tending to strengthen
the child's capacity for thinking and to raise the plane of its activity.

What is the culture of the child's expansive instincts likely to do for him?

I will weave into my answer to this question my knowledge of what has been done and is being
done in Utopia.

It is through the medium of his own exertions that the evolution of the child's instincts is
carried on by Egeria. It may be possible to lay veneers of information on the surface of a
child's mind, but it is not possible to lay on veneers of growth; and growth, not information,
is the end at which Egeria has always aimed. If a child is to grow, he must exercise his own
limbs, his own organs, his own faculties. No one else can do this for him; and unless he does
it himself, it will never be done. The school life in Utopia is therefore one of constant activity.
The habit of doing things, of doing things for himself, of doing things by himself, is gradually
built up in each child. There is no forced inertness in Utopia, no slackness, no boredom, no
yawning. And the activity which is characteristic of the school is always the child's own activity.
The child himself is behind everything that he does. The child himself is expressing himself
in his every action. Mechanical activity, the doing of things, not merely at the bidding of
another, but also under his minutely detailed direction, is as foreign to the genius of the
school as is the passivity of the helpless victims of the unenlightened teacher's "chalk and talk."

The first consequence, then, of the training of the expansive instincts which is given in Utopia
is the building up in each scholar of what I may call the habit of rational activity. In many
schools the energies of the child are systematically dammed back, till at last the springs
of his activity, finding that no demand is made upon them, cease to flow. In Utopia the sluices,
though always regulated, are permanently lifted, and the energies of the child are ever moving,
with a strong and steady current, in whatever channel they may have chanced to enter. So strong,
indeed, and so steady is the current that it maintains its movement long after the child has
left school. The employers of labour in the neighbourhood of Utopia will tell you that there
are no slackers or loafers in the yearly output of the school. Egeria recently received a visit
from one of her ex-pupils, a girl of fourteen who is at home keeping house for her father,
and who said to her in the course of their conversation: "I do just love washing days; I get
up before six and start. Then, when all the washing is done, I scrub everything bright in the
copper while I have the hot soapsuds." Accustomed as he (or she) is from his (or her) earliest
days to sincere and fearless self-expression, the Utopian child is entirely incapable of indulging
in cant; and the genuineness of the sentiment which dictated those words is therefore above
suspicion. To work vigorously, to do well whatever he (or she) has to do, is a real pleasure
to the Utopian child. Indeed his whole being is a living response to the familiar precept:
"Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might."

And what he does with his might is always well worth doing. His constant effort to express
himself has, as its necessary counterpart, a constant effort to find out what is worth expressing,
to get to the truth of things, to see things as they are. The consequent growth of his perceptive
powers may be looked at from two points of view. On the one hand his growing capacity for getting
on terms with things--for feeling his way among them, for "getting, the hang" of them, for
making himself at home with them, for learning their ins and outs, for understanding their
ways and works--will give him the power of putting forth an appropriate sense in response to
the demands of each new environment, and, through the medium of this sense, of converting information
into knowledge. For this reason new "subjects" have no terror for Egeria and her pupils. Though
she has never thought in subjects, she is ready to extend her curriculum in any direction in
which she thinks that her children are likely to find interest or profit. The versatility,
the mental agility, of the children is as remarkable as their activity. The current of their
energy is ready to adapt itself to every modifying influence, to every change of geological
formation, that it may encounter in its course, and to shape its channel or channels accordingly.

On the other hand, as healthy vigorous growth is always upward (and downward) as well as outward,
the lateral extension of the child's perceptive powers must needs be balanced in Utopia by
the gradual elevation of his standpoint, with a corresponding widening of his outlook, and
the proportionate deepening of his insight. When the school life of the child is one of continuous
self-expression, opportunities for "putting his soul" into what he says and does will often
present themselves to him; and if only a few of these are made use of, his outlook on life
will widen, and his imaginative sympathy with life will deepen, to an extent which to one who
had never visited Utopia might well seem incredible. I have spoken of the Utopian child's love
of the beautiful. This is one aspect of the spiritual growth that he is always making. Other
aspects of it are his strong sympathy with life in all its forms, and a certain large and free
way of looking at things, which, as far as my experience of school children goes, is all his own.

There is yet another aspect of his spiritual growth which is perhaps the most vital and the
most typical of all. When we say that the child is growing both laterally and vertically (like
a shapely tree), we mean that he is growing as a whole, as a living soul. Now the growth of
the soul as such must needs take the form of outgrowth, of escape from "self." Growth is, in
its essence, an emancipative process; and though it sometimes intensifies selfishness and widens
the sphere of its activity, that is invariably due to its being one-sided and therefore inharmonious
and unhealthy. When the child or the man is growing as a living whole, with a happy, harmonious,
many-sided growth, his growth is of necessity outgrowth, and he must needs be escaping from
the thraldom of his lower and lesser self. This conclusion is no mere inference from accepted
or postulated premises. What I have seen in Utopia has forced it upon me. The unselfishness,
the natural, easy, spontaneous self-forgetfulness, of the Utopian child, is the central feature
of his moral life,--so marked and withal so unique a feature that its presence proves to demonstration,
first, that growth of the right sort is necessarily emancipative, and, next, that the growth
made in Utopia is growth of the right sort. I have already commented on the singular charm
of manner which distinguishes the children of Utopia. Their self-forgetfulness, their entire
lack of self-consciousness, is one source of this charm. The tactfulness which their life of
self-expression, and therefore of trained perception, tends to engender, is another. But the
moral aspect of Utopianism is one of such surpassing interest, and also of such profound significance
from the point of view of my fundamental "truism," that I must limit myself for the moment
to this passing reference to it, and reserve it for fuller treatment in the remaining chapters.

I could easily make a long list of Utopian virtues and graces, but I must content myself with
touching on one more typical product of Egeria's philosophy of education,--the joy which the
children wear in their faces and bear in their hearts. The sense of well-being which must needs
accompany healthy and harmonious growth is realised by him who experiences it as joy. The Utopian
children are by many degrees the happiest that I have met with in an elementary school, and
I must therefore conclude that all is well with them, that their well-being--the true end of
all education--has been, and is being, achieved. If you look at any of them with more than
a mere passing glance, you will be sure to win from him the quick response of a sunny smile,--a
smile which is half gladness, half goodwill. And the joy of their hearts goes with them when
their schooldays are over and they begin to work for their bread. Last year one of the boys,
on leaving school, found employment in a large field on the lower slopes of the hills, where
he had to collect flints and pile them in heaps, his wage for this dull and tiresome work being
no more than fivepence a day. But he found the work neither dull nor tiresome; for as he marched
up and down the field, collecting and piling the flints with cheery goodwill, he sang his Folk
Songs with all the spontaneous happiness of a soaring lark.

Activity, versatility, imaginative sympathy, a wide and free outlook, self-forgetfulness, charm
of manner, joy of heart,--these are qualities which might be expected to unfold themselves
under the influence of the Utopian training, and which do, in point of fact, flourish vigorously
in the soil and atmosphere of Utopia. They are the outcome of a type of education which differs
radically from that which has hitherto been accepted as orthodox,--differing from it with the
unfathomable difference between vital and mechanical obedience, between life and machinery.

FOOTNOTES:

[16] The child is struggling to do this, and more than this. The search for order resolves
itself into the search for cause; and the search for cause will resolve itself, in the last
resort, into the greatest of all adventures,--the search for that pure essence of things on
which all the deeper desires of the soul converge, which imagination dreams of as absolute
beauty, and reason as a beacon-lamp of all-illuminating light, flashing forth alternately as
absolute reality and absolute truth.

[17] I shall perhaps be told that my extravagant idealism is out of place in a book on elementary
education. To this possible reproach I can but answer, in Mrs. Browning's words, that--

  It takes the ideal to blow a hair's breadth off
  The dust of the actual.

My experience of Utopia has convinced me that in taking thought for the education of the young
it is impossible to be too idealistic, and that the more "commonsensical" and "utilitarian"
one's philosophy of education, the shallower and falser it will prove to be.

[18] An informal report to me, not a formal report to the Board of Education.

[19] Real, in the sense that the beauty of form and colour is more real than either form or
colour, and that a law of Nature is more real than an isolated fact.

CHAPTER V

EDUCATION THROUGH SELF-REALISATION

Activity, versatility, imaginative sympathy, a large and free outlook, self-forgetfulness,
charm of manner, joy of heart,--are there many schools in England in which the soil and atmosphere
are favourable to the vigorous growth of all these qualities? I doubt it. In the secondary
schools, of all grades and types, the education given is so one-sided, thanks to the inexorable
pressure of the scholarship system, that the harmonious development of the child's nature is
not to be looked for. In the elementary schools, from which the chilling shadow cast by thirty
years of "payment by results" is passing slowly--very slowly--away, the instinct of the teacher
is to distrust the child and do everything, or nearly everything, for him, the result being
that the whole régime is still unfavourable to the spontaneous outgrowth of the child's higher
qualities. There are of course schools, both secondary and elementary, in which one or more
of the Utopian qualities flourish with considerable vigour. There are elementary schools, for
example, in which the children, being allowed by enterprising teachers to walk in new paths
without leading strings, have become unexpectedly active and versatile. And there are others--mostly
in the slum regions of great towns--in which the devotion, the sympathetic kindness, and the
gracious bearing of the teachers have won from the children the response of unselfish affection,
attractive manners, and happy faces.[20] Yet even in these exceptional cases it may be doubted
if the development of the particular quality or qualities for which the school is distinguished
reaches the high-water mark which is reached in each and all of the seven qualities in Utopia.
As for the elementary schools which remain faithful, as so many still do, to the traditions
of the old régime,--if in these any of the seven qualities manage to resist the adverse influences
to which they are all exposed, they have at best but a starved and stunted life.

I have spoken much and with unsparing frankness of the shortcomings of our elementary schools.
The time has come for me to say with emphasis that however grave and however numerous may be
the defects of elementary education in England, they are defects which it shares with all other
branches of education, and which England shares with all other Western lands. The plain truth
is that education as such is a failure in the West, a failure in the sense that the very qualities
which it ought to foster--the cardinal virtues, mental, moral, and spiritual, which are present
in embryo in every child, waiting to be realised--are not merely neglected by it, in its insane
ardour for "results," but are also exposed, in most of its schools, to strongly adverse influences.
And the reason why education as such is a failure in the West is that from its earliest days
it has been a house divided against itself, those who were and are responsible for it having
been under the influence of two mutually destructive assumptions, which they have vainly tried
to reconcile with one another.

The first of these assumptions is my initial "truism,"--that the function of education is to
foster growth. This is admitted, implicitly if not directly, by all who think and speak about
education, and even, in their unguarded moments, by most of those who teach. It is generally
admitted, for example, that such mental qualities as attention, memory, judgment, intelligence,
reason, such moral qualities as loyalty, courage, truthfulness, kindness, unselfishness, such
semi-moral qualities as cleanliness, orderliness, carefulness, alertness, industry, punctuality,
are capable of being developed by education. It is further admitted that such special qualities
as literary or artistic taste, the mathematical or the historical sense, an aptitude for business
or finance, are ready to evolve themselves, in response to the fostering influence of practical
experience directed by skilful teaching. It is admitted, in other words, that there is much
in human nature, apart from what is purely or mainly physical, which is both capable and worthy
of cultivation, and which education ought therefore to try to cultivate.

So far, so good. These admissions, with the fundamental admission which underlies them all,
might form the basis of a sound philosophy of education, if they were not liable to be stultified
and even nullified by the counter assumption that human nature is innately evil and corrupt.
For from the latter assumption has followed, both logically and naturally, a theory of education
which is not merely unfavourable but fatal to growth. If human nature is innately evil, if
it has no inborn capacity for goodness or truth, what is there in it that is worth training?
So far as the "great matters" of life are concerned, the child must be educated by being told
in minute detail what to do, and by being alternately bribed and bullied into doing it. As
he can neither think, nor believe, nor desire, nor do what is right, he must be told what to
think, what to believe, what to desire, what to do; and as it is assumed that the tasks set
him by his teacher will not be intrinsically attractive, he must be induced to perform them
by the threat of external punishments and the promise of external rewards. In other words,
in the spheres of religion and morals, so far as these can be walled off from the rest of human
life, he must be educated, not by being helped to grow, but by being compelled to obey; and
as the spheres of religion and morals cannot possibly be walled off from the rest of human
life, the idea of educating the child through the medium of passive and mechanical obedience
will gradually extend its influence over all the other departments and aspects of his home
and school life, his innate sinfulness finding its equivalent, in secular matters, in his innate
helplessness and stupidity, while in the place of the creeds, codes, and catechisms by which
his spiritual welfare is provided for, he will be fed during the hours of secular instruction
on rations of information, formulated rules, and minute directions of various kinds. Under
this régime of wire-pulling on the part of the teacher and puppet-like dancing on the part
of the child, the growth of the child's faculties,--of the whole range of his faculties, for
they will all come under the blighting influence of the current misconception of the bent of
his nature and the consequent under-estimate of his powers,--far from being fostered, will
be systematically thwarted and starved. This is the fate which might be expected to befall
the child if the doctrine of his innate sinfulness were allowed to dominate his education;
and this is the fate which has befallen and is befalling him in all grades of society and in
all the countries of the West.

It is the doctrine of original sin, of the congenital depravity of man's nature, which blocks
the way to the reform of education,--blocks the way to it by compelling education to become
the destroying angel instead of the foster-nurse of the child's expanding life. In criticising
the defects of our educational system, we have too long mistaken symptoms for causes, and believed
that we were removing the latter when we were only palliating or at best excising the former.
To pinch off a withered bud, to lop off a withered limb, of the diseased tree of education,
to train in this or that direction a branch which is as yet unaffected, is but lost labour
so long as the tree is being slowly poisoned at its roots by a fundamental misconception of
the character and capacity of the child. It is time that we should reconsider our whole attitude
towards human nature. The widespread belief that sundry faculties, physical, mental, and moral,
admit of being cultivated and ought to be cultivated in the schoolroom--a belief which is ever
affirming itself against the educational systems and practices that are ever giving it the
lie--may surely be construed into an admission that my primary truism is at least a truth.
If this is so, if the business of the teacher is, as I contend, to help the child to grow,
healthily, vigorously, and symmetrically, on all the planes of his being, the inference is
irresistible that education will achieve nothing but failure until its foundations have been
entirely relaid. For faith in the inherent soundness, in the natural goodness, of the seed
or sapling, or whatever else he may undertake to rear, is the first condition of success on
the part of the grower. And to ask education to bring to sane and healthy maturity the plant
which we call human nature, and in the same breath to tell it that human nature is intrinsically
corrupt and evil, is to set it an obviously impracticable task. One might as well supply a
farmer with the seeds of wild grasses and poisonous weeds, and ask him to grow a crop of wheat.
Growth can and does transform potential into actual good, but no process of growth can transform
what is innately evil into what is finally good. A poisonous seed will ripen of inner necessity
into a poisonous plant; and the more carefully it is fed and tended, the larger and stronger
will the poisonous plant become.

The time has come, then, for us to throw to the winds the time-honoured, but otherwise dishonoured
and discredited, belief that the child is conceived in sin and shapen in iniquity, and that
therefore his nature, if allowed to obey its own laws and follow its own tendencies, will ripen
into death, instead of into a larger and richer life. I shall perhaps be told that if this
belief is abandoned, other religious beliefs will go with it. Let them go. They have kept bad
company, and if they cannot dissociate themselves from it, they had better share its fate.
What is real and vital in our religious beliefs will gain incalculably by being disengaged
from what may once have had a life and a meaning of its own but is now nothing better than
a morbid growth. To tell a man that, apart from a miracle, he is predestined to perdition,
is the surest way to send him there; and it is probable that the doctrine of his own innate
depravity is the deadliest instrument for achieving his ruin, that Man, in his groping endeavours
to explain to himself the dominant facts of his existence, has ever devised.

Nor is the practical failure of the doctrine--its failure to achieve any lasting result but
the strangulation of Man's expanding life--the only proof that it is inherently unsound. There
is positive proof that the counter doctrine, the doctrine of Man's potential goodness, is inherently
true. We have seen that the great arterial instincts which manifest themselves in the undirected
play of young children, are making for three supreme ends,--the sympathetic instincts for the
goal of Love, the artistic instincts for the goal of Beauty, the scientific instincts for the
goal of Truth. We have seen, in other words, that the push of Nature's forces in the inner
life of the young child is ever tending to take him out of himself in the direction of a triune
goal which I may surely be allowed to call Divine. If we follow towards "infinity" the lines
of love, of beauty, and of truth, we shall begin at last to dream of an ideal point--the meeting-point
of all and the vanishing-point of each--for which no name will suffice less pregnant with meaning
or less suggestive of reality than that of God. It is towards God, then, not towards the Devil,
that the ripening, expansive forces of Nature which are at work in the child, are directing
the process of his growth. We are taught that Man is by nature a "child of wrath." The more
closely we study his ways and works when, as a young child, he is left (more or less) to his
own devices, the stronger does our conviction become that he is by nature a "child of God."
Those who are in a position to speak tell us that the normal child is born physically healthy.
If the men of science would study the other sides of his being as carefully as they have studied
his physique, they would, I feel sure, be able to tell us that he is also born mentally, morally,
and spiritually healthy, and that on these sides, as well as on the physical side, his growth
might be and ought to be a natural movement towards perfection. For some of my readers such
arguments as these are perhaps too much in the air to be convincing. Well, then, let us appeal
to experience. Let us see what the systematic cultivation of his natural faculties has done
for the child in Utopia. I have already pointed out that the unselfishness of the children--the
complete absence of self-seeking and self-assertion--is one of the most noticeable features
of the life of their school. Now there is no place for moral teaching on the time-table of
the school: and I can say without hesitation that the direct inculcation of morality is wholly
foreign to Egeria's conception of education. How, then, has the emancipation of the child from
the first enemy of Man's well-being--from all those narrowing, hardening, and demoralising
influences which we speak of collectively as egoistic or selfish--been effected in Utopia?
By no other means than that of allowing the child's nature to unfold itself, on many sides
of its being and under thoroughly favourable conditions. The twofold desire which we all experience,--to
accept and rest in the ordinary undeveloped self, and at the same time to exalt and magnify
it,--is the surest and most fruitful source of moral evil. Indeed, it may be doubted if there
is any source of moral evil, apart from those which are purely sensual, which has not at least
an underground connection with this. If we are to "cap" this deadly fountain, and so prevent
it from desolating human life, we must realise, once and for all, that the two desires which
master us cannot be simultaneously gratified; that we cannot both rest in the ordinary self
and magnify it; that we can magnify it only by making it great, by helping it to grow. When
we have realised this, we shall be ready to receive the further lesson that in proportion as
the self magnifies itself by the natural process of growth, so does its desire to magnify itself
gradually die away,--die away with the dawning consciousness that in and through the process
of its growth it is outgrowing itself, forgetting itself, escaping from itself, that the thing
which so ardently desired to be magnified is in fact ceasing to be. This vital truth,--which
my visits to Utopia have borne in upon me,--that healthy and harmonious growth is in its very
essence outgrowth or escape from self, has depths of meaning which are waiting to be fathomed.
For one thing, it means, if it has any meaning, that what is central in human nature is, not
its inborn wickedness but its infinite capacity for good, not its rebellious instincts and
backsliding tendencies but its many-sided effort to achieve perfection.

We must now make our choice between two alternatives. We must decide, once and for all, whether
the function of education is to foster growth or to exact mechanical obedience. If we choose
the latter alternative, we shall enter a path which leads in the direction of spiritual death.
If we choose the former, we must cease to halt between two opinions, and must henceforth base
our system of education, boldly and confidently, on the conviction that growth is in its essence
a movement towards perfection, and therefore that self-realisation is the first and last duty
of Man.

It is by answering possible objections to Utopianism that I shall best be able to unfold Egeria's
philosophy of education. I shall perhaps be told that in my advocacy of that philosophy I am
preaching dangerous doctrines; that the only alternative for obedience is the lawlessness of
unbridled licence; and that anarchy, social, moral, and spiritual, is the ultimate goal of
the path which I am urging the teacher to enter. Let me point out, in answer to this protest,
that it is mechanical obedience which I condemn, not obedience as such. If I condemn mechanical
obedience, I do so because it is unworthy of the name of obedience, because the higher faculties
of Man's being, the faculties which are distinctively human--reason, imagination, aspiration,
spiritual intuition, and the like--take no part in it, because it is the obedience of an automaton,
not of a living soul. What I wish to oppose to it is vital obedience, obedience to the master
laws of Man's being, obedience to the laws which assert themselves as central and supreme,
obedience more particularly to those larger and obscurer laws which obedience itself helps
us to discover, obedience in fine to that hierarchy of laws--(the superior law always claiming
the fuller measure and the higher kind of obedience)--which, if we are to use the Divine Name,
we must needs identify with the will of God. Obedience, in this sense of the word, is a sustained
and soul-deep effort in which all the higher faculties of Man's being take part, an effort
which is in some sort a voyage of discovery, the doing of the more obvious duty being always
rewarded by the deepening of the doer's insight and the widening of his outlook, and by the
consequent unveiling to him of the way in which he is to walk and the goal at which he is to
aim. That the path of soul-growth is the path of vital obedience can scarcely be doubted. The
effort to grow is always successful just so far as it implies knowledge of the laws of the
nature that is unfolding itself, and readiness to obey those laws; and so far as it is successful,
it carries with it the outgrowth of the very faculties by which knowledge--the higher knowledge
which makes further growth possible--is to be gained. Here, as elsewhere, there is an unceasing
interaction between perception and expression, between knowledge of law and obedience to law,
what is given as obedience being received back as enlightenment, and what is received as enlightenment
being given back as larger, fuller, and more significant obedience.

And, be it carefully observed, it is obedience to the laws of human nature, not obedience to
the idiosyncrasies of the individual nature, which the process of soul-growth at once implies
and makes possible. Growth is, in its essence, a movement towards that perfect type which is
the real self of each individual in turn, and the approach to which involves the gradual surrender
of individuality, and the gradual escape from the ordinary self. A man is to cling to and affirm
his individuality, not in order that he may rest in it and make much of it, but in order that
he may outgrow it and pass far beyond it in that one way--the best way for him--which it, and
it alone, is able to mark out for him. In other words, he is to assert his individual self
in order that he may universalise himself in his own way, and not in obedience to the ruling
of custom and authority, in order that he may escape from himself through the real outlet of
sincere self-expression, and not through the sham outlet of hypocrisy and cant.

What I may call the Utopian scheme of education, far from making for antinomianism and anarchy,
is the sworn enemy of individualism and therefore, a fortiori, of everything that savours of
licence. It is the conventional type of education, with its demands for mechanical obedience
to external authority, which leads through despotism to social and political chaos. The whole
régime of mechanical obedience is favourable, in the long run, to the development of anarchy.
Let us take the case of a church or an autocracy which demands implicit obedience from its
subjects, and is prepared to exact such obedience by the application of physical force or its
moral equivalent. What will happen to it when its subjects begin to ask it for its credentials?
The fact that it has always demanded from them literal rather than spiritual obedience, and
that, in its application of motive force, it has appealed to their baser desires and baser
fears, makes it impossible for it to justify itself to their higher faculties, rational or
emotional, and makes it necessary for it to meet their incipient criticism with renewed threats
of punishment and renewed promises of reward. But the very fact that it is being asked for
its credentials means that the force on which it has hitherto relied is weakening, that its
power to punish and reward, which has always been resolvable into the power to make people
believe that it can punish and reward, is being called in question and is therefore crumbling
away. And behind that power there is nothing but chaos. For the régime of mechanical obedience,
by arresting the spontaneous growth of Man's higher nature, and by making its chief appeal
to his baser desires and baser fears, becomes of necessity the foster-mother of egoism; and
when egoism, which makes each man a law to himself and the potential enemy of his kind, is
unrestrained by authority, the door is thrown wide open to anarchy, and through anarchy to
chaos. This is what is happening in the West, in our self-conscious and critical age. In every
field of human action, in religion, in politics, in social life, in art, in letters, authority
is being asked for its credentials; and as this demand, besides being a disintegrating influence,
is a sign that the force on which authority relies is weakening, it is not to be wondered at
that there is a steady drift in many Western countries in the direction of anarchy,--religious,
political, social, artistic, literary,--or that this régime of incipient anarchy is taking
the form of an ignoble scramble for wealth, for power, for position, for fame, for notoriety,
for anything in fine which may serve to exalt a man above his fellows, and so minister to the
aggrandizement of his lower self.

In this drift towards anarchy the school is playing its part. I do not wish to suggest that
the boys and girls of this or any other Western country are beginning to ask their teachers
for their credentials, or are likely to rise in rebellion against them. The preparation for
anarchy that is going on in the school is not only quite compatible with what is known as "strict
discipline," but is also, in part at least, the effect of it. What is happening is that in
an acutely critical age the régime of mechanical obedience to external authority which has
been in force in the West for nearly 2000 years, and which is now taking its victims straight
towards anarchy, is being carefully rehearsed in our schools of all types and grades. During
the years when human nature is most pliable (owing to its richness in sap), most easily trained,
and most amenable to influence, good or evil, the child's spontaneous effort to outgrow himself
and so escape from his lower self,--an end which is not to be reached except by the path of
free self-expression,--is persistently thwarted till at last it dies away; blind and literal
obedience to external authority, for which the consent of his higher faculties is not asked,
and in the giving of which they are not allowed to take part, is persistently exacted from
him till at last his higher faculties cease to energise, and his lower nature begins to monopolise
the rising sap of his life; in order to enforce the blind obedience that is asked for, an appeal
is made, by an elaborate system of external rewards and external punishments, to his selfish
desires and ignoble fears; while the examination system, with its inevitable accompaniments
of prizes and class-lists, makes a special appeal to his competitive instincts,--instincts
which are anti-social, and may even, in extreme cases, become anti-human in their tendency.
And when authority has thus been presented to him, in a form which he has never been expected
to welcome, and when, by the same process, the growth of his higher self has been arrested,
and his anarchical instincts--his selfishness and self-assertion--have been systematically
cultivated, the critical spirit and temper will be deliberately aroused in him, especially
if he happens to attend one of those secondary schools which are regarded as highly efficient
because their lists of University distinctions and other "successes" are inordinately long;
for the education given to him in such a school by his scholarship-hunting teachers is of necessity
so bookish and so one-sided that his intellectual, dialectically critical faculties are apt
to become hypertrophied, while other faculties which might have kept these in check are neglected
and starved. The product of such a system of education,--benumbed or paralysed on many sides
of his being by the repressive régime to which he has so long been subjected, but vigorously
alive on the sides of egoism and intellectual criticism,--will be an anarchist in posse (unless,
indeed, his vitality has been depressed by his school-life below the point at which reaction
becomes possible);--an anarchist in posse, even though, in his terror of anarchism in others,
he should become a pillar of the Established Church of his country, a J.P. of his town or county,
and an active member of the nearest Conservative Association.

In Utopia, on the other hand, where selfishness is outgrown and forgotten, and where the spirit
of comradeship and brotherhood pervades the school, there can be no preparation for anarchy,
if only for the reason that there is no authority--no despotic authority, forcibly imposing
its will on the school ab extra--to be potentially dethroned. For all her scholars, Egeria
is the very symbol and embodiment of love, the centre whence all happy, harmonious, life-giving,
peace-diffusing influences radiate, and to which, when they have vitalised the souls of the
children and transformed themselves into sentiments of loyalty and devotion, they all return.
I am not exaggerating a whit when I say that the Utopian school is an ideal community, a community
whose social system, instead of being inspired by that spirit of "competitive selfishness"
which makes "each for himself, and the devil take the hindmost" its motto, seems to have realised
the Socialistic dream of "Each for all, and all for each."

I shall perhaps be asked what provision is made in Utopia for enabling the children to go through
the drudgery of school-life, to master the "3 R's," to "get up" the various subjects which
the Code prescribes, and so forth. To this question there is but one answer: the best possible
provision. "Qui veut la fin veut les moyens." In the life of organised play which the children
lead, attractive ends are ever being set before them. If they are to achieve these ends, they
must take the appropriate means. What children in other schools might regard as drudgery, the
Utopian takes in his stride. Reading, writing, and arithmetic are means to ends beyond themselves,
ends which are constantly presenting themselves to the Utopian. If he is to gratify his communicative
instinct, he must learn to read and write. If he is to gratify his dramatic instinct, he must,
inter alia, read with intelligence books of reference which would be considered too advanced
for the ordinary school-child. If he is to gratify his inquisitive and constructive instincts,
he must learn to count, measure, and calculate. For whatever means may have to be taken, must
be taken by him. Egeria, as he knows well, will do nothing for him which he can reasonably
be expected to do for himself. There are subjects, such as drawing, dancing, and singing, which
are, or at any rate ought to be, intrinsically delightful, as being natural channels of self-expression.
There are other subjects, such as history, geography, and English, which can be made delightful
by being treated dramatically. The word "drudgery" has no meaning for the Utopian child. A
group of children in the highest class recently committed to memory the whole "Trial Scene"
of the Merchant of Venice--some 300 lines or so of blank verse--in order that they might give
themselves the pleasure of acting it. They accomplished this feat in a little more than a month.
In the ordinary elementary school the child who has committed 150 lines to memory in the course
of a year has done all that is required of him. The getting up of a subject is drudgery only
when the child can see no meaning in what he is doing, only when the getting up of the subject
is regarded as an end in itself. In Utopia no subject, apart from those which I have spoken
of as intrinsically delightful, is taught for its own sake. Subjects are taught there either
as the means to desired ends, or because they afford opportunities for the training of the
expansive instincts, the gratification of which is a pure pleasure to every healthy child.

But not only does the Utopian child, with his eyes always fixed on desirable ends, find a pleasure
in doing things which other children are wont to regard as drudgery, but he has the further
advantage of being able to master with comparative facility what other children find difficult
as well as distasteful. From first to last, the training given in Utopia makes, as we have
seen, for the development of faculty. In my last chapter I set forth in detail some of the
ways and means by which Egeria tries to cultivate the expansive instincts of her pupils. Behind
all these ways and means stands the master method--or shall I say the master principle?--of
self-expression. Recognising, as she does, that each of the expansive instincts is a definite
expression of the soul's spontaneous effort to grow, and a clear indication of a particular
direction in which Nature wishes the soul to grow,--and recognising, as she also does, that
the business of growing must be done by the growing organism and cannot be delegated to any
one else,--Egeria entrusts the work of self-realisation to the child himself, and makes no
attempt to relieve him of an obligation which no one but himself can discharge.

Now self-realisation is a twofold process. In the absence of a fitter and more adequate word,
I have applied the term perceptive to those faculties by means of which we lay hold upon the
world that surrounds us, and draw it into ourselves and make it our own. And I have contended
that this group of faculties has, as its counterpart and correlate, another group of faculties
which I have called expressive,--the faculties by means of which we go out of ourselves into
the world that surrounds us, and give ourselves to it and try to identify ourselves with it,--and
that the relation between these two groups is so vital and so intimate that each in turn may
be regarded as the very life and soul of the other. That these two groups of faculties are,
as it were, the reciprocating engines by means of which the vital movement which we call self-realisation
is effected, is the conviction on which Egeria's whole scheme of education may be said to be
pivoted. In Utopia self-expression is the medium through which the expansive instincts are
encouraged to unfold themselves. And this life of self-expression has as its necessary counterpart
the continuous development of the perceptive faculties along the whole range of the child's nature.

Hence the all-round capacity of the Utopian child. The development of his perceptive faculties
which his life of self-expression tends to produce, takes many forms. One of these, and one
which in some sort underlies and interpenetrates all the rest, is the outgrowth of what I may
call the intuitional faculty,--a general capacity for getting into touch with any new environment
in which the child may find himself, of subconsciously apprehending its laws and properties,
of feeling his way through its unexplored land. It is by means of this capacity for putting
forth a new sense in response to the stimulus of each new environment, that the Utopian child
is able to master with comparative ease the various subjects which he is expected to learn.
And not with ease only, but with effect. It is, as we have seen, through the action of an appropriate
sense, and in no other way, that the information which is supplied to the scholar, when he
is learning this or that subject, is converted into knowledge, and is so made available both
for the further understanding of the given subject and for the nutrition of the scholar's own
inner life.

From every point of view, then, the Utopian scholar has a marked advantage, in respect of the
things with which education is supposed to be mainly concerned--the mastery of subjects and
the acquisition of knowledge--over the product of the conventional type of school. Whatever
the Utopian may have to learn, is a pleasure to him either for its own sake or as a means to
some desirable end. Whatever he may have to learn, he learns with comparative ease, because
his perceptive faculties have been systematically trained, and he is therefore at home, in
greater or lesser degree, in any new environment. And whatever he may have to learn, he learns
with effect, because he is able to digest the information that he receives, and convert it
into knowledge, and so retain it in the form in which it will best conduce both to his further
progress in that particular branch of study and to the general building up of his mind.

In the ordinary result-hunting school the scholar fares very differently from this. As a rule,
he takes but little pleasure in his work, for subjects which have their chief value as means
to desirable ends are presented to him as ends in themselves, and as such are rightly regarded
by him as meaningless and therefore as intolerably dull; while subjects which are either intrinsically
attractive, as being natural channels of self-expression, or potentially attractive as providing
opportunities for self-expression, have no attraction for him, as in neither case is self-expression
on his part permitted. Again, he finds great difficulty in mastering the subjects on his time-table,
or even in making the first step towards mastering them, for, owing to his perceptive faculties
as a whole having been starved by the repressive régime which denied them the outlet of expression,
he has not evolved the power of putting forth an appropriate sense in response to the stimulus
of a new environment, and is therefore helpless in the presence of what is unfamiliar or unexpected.
One of his faculties, his memory, has indeed been hypertrophied by being unduly exercised,
and his capacity for receiving information is in consequence unhealthily great; but because
he lacks, in this case or in that, the sense which might enable him to digest the information
received and convert it into knowledge, the food with which he has been crammed speedily passes
through him, undigested and unassimilated, and the hours which he has spent in acquiring information
will have done as little for his progress in the given subject as for the general growth of
his mind.

The difference between the two schemes of education--that which exacts mechanical obedience,
and that which seeks to foster growth--may be looked at from another point of view. Under the
former, interference with what I may call the subconscious processes of Nature is at its maximum.
Under the latter, at its minimum. In order to realise what this means let us suppose that such
interference were possible where fortunately it is and must ever be impossible,--in the first
and second years of the child's life. Fortunately for the child, it is impossible for us to
educate him, in any formal sense of the word, until he has mastered his mother tongue. Were
it otherwise, his mother tongue would never be mastered. Before he reaches the age of two the
child accomplishes the marvellous feat of acquiring an entirely new language. While he is learning
it Nature is his only teacher, and under her tuition he masters the new language without the
least strain and with complete success. But let us suppose that it was possible for a teacher
of the conventional type to give minute directions to a child by some other medium of expression
than that of language. And let us suppose that such a teacher made up her mind that she, and
not Nature, was to teach the child his mother tongue. One can readily imagine what would happen.
The teacher would probably have a theory that no child should begin to talk till he was two
or even two and a half years old; and if so, the child would be kept in a state of enforced
dumbness till he reached that age. In any case, he would be strictly forbidden to speak till
his teacher gave him formal permission to do so. Half-an-hour in the morning, and half-an-hour
in the afternoon would probably be set aside for the language lesson. For so many weeks or
months the child would be strictly limited to words of two or three letters. For so many more
weeks or months, to words of four or five letters. Things which had names of more than the
prescribed number of letters would be kept away from the child; or, if that was impossible,
he would not be allowed to talk about them. For half a year perhaps he would be limited to
the use of nouns and verbs. Prepositions might then be introduced into his vocabulary; and,
later, adjectives and adverbs. And so on; and so on. And the outcome of all this elaborate
training would be that the child would never learn to talk his mother tongue.

It is by methods analogous in all respects to this that many of the subjects on the time-table
are taught in thousands of our schools. The teacher seems to imagine that he knows, fully and
precisely, how each subject ought to be taught; and instead of standing aside, and trying to
learn how Nature wishes this or that subject to be taught (if Nature can be said to take any
interest in "subjects"), and then trying to co-operate with her subconscious tendencies, he
makes out his elaborate scheme of instruction, sets before the child as the goal of his efforts
the production of certain formal results, and drives him towards these with whip and bridle,
satisfied that if he succeeds in producing them, the subject will have been duly mastered.
And all the time he will not have given a thought to what is happening to the child's inner
life. Yet it is more than probable that the teacher's disregard of, and therefore incessant
interference with, the subconscious processes of Nature has quite as disastrous results in
the teaching of composition, let us say, or drawing, as it would certainly have in the hypothetical
case of the teaching of the child's mother tongue.

But in truth the Utopian conception of what constitutes efficiency differs so radically from
the current conception, that little is to be gained by comparing them. If I am asked by those
who value outward and visible results for their own sake, whether the training given in Utopia
is "efficient," I can but answer: "Yes, but efficient in a sense which you cannot even begin
to understand,--efficient in the sense of developing faculty and fostering life, whereas the
price paid for your boasted efficiency is the starvation of faculty and the destruction of life."

       *       *       *       *       *

"But how," it will be asked, "are the Utopian children, one and all, induced to exert themselves?
The standard of activity in the school is, on your own showing, exceptionally high. Much is
expected of the children. Yet there are no rewards for them to hope for, and no punishments
for them to fear. How, then, are those who are by nature less energetic or less persevering
than the rest to be induced to rise to the level of the teacher's expectation?" By implication
this question has been answered again and again. But it deserves a direct answer, and I will
try to give it one.

To begin with, it is incorrect to say that there are no rewards or punishments in Utopia. Outward
rewards and outward punishments are entirely unknown there; but there are inward rewards to
be had for the seeking, and there are inward punishments to be feared, though it must be admitted
that the fear of them seldom overshadows, even for a passing moment, the sunlit life of the
Utopian child. What induces the Utopian child to work is, in brief, delight in his work. He
is allowed and even encouraged to energise along the lines which his nature seems to have marked
out for him, and in response to the stress of forces which seem to be welling up from the depths
of his inner life. Exertion of this kind is in itself a delight. Nature has taken care to make
all the exercises by which growth is fostered, at any rate in the days of childhood when growth
is most rapid and vigorous, intrinsically attractive. Had she done otherwise she would have
failed to make due provision for the growth of Man's being during the years which precede the
outgrowth of self-consciousness, and the possibility of self-discipline, of the narrower and
sterner kind.

And not only are the exercises by which healthy and harmonious growth is secured intrinsically
attractive, but also the sense of well-being which accompanies such growth is an unfailing
source of happiness. In Utopia the end for which the children are working is not an external
reward or prize to be conferred on them if they achieve certain prescribed results, but rather
the actual goal to which the path that they have entered is taking them,--a goal which is ever
lighting the path with its foreglow, and which is therefore at once an infinitely distant lodestar
and an ever present delight. For the consummation of any process of growth is always the perfection,
the final well-being, of the thing that grows; and therefore in each successive stage of the
process there is a truer prefigurement of the perfection which is being gradually achieved,
and a fuller sense of that well-being which, at its highest level, is perfection's other self.

For the Utopian, then, to walk in the path of self-realisation is its own reward; and to wander
from that path is its own punishment. But as the forces of Nature are all co-operating to keep
the child in the path of self-realisation, and as Egeria has allied herself with those forces
and is working with them in every possible way, the rewards which the Utopian wins for himself
are very many, while the punishments which he inflicts on himself are very few. In other words,
the pressure on him to exert himself is so strong, his opportunities for exerting himself (under
Egeria's sympathetic rule) are so many, and the pleasure of exerting himself is found to be
so great, that the temptation to be idle or rebellious can scarcely be said to exist.

It is indeed in respect of the motives to exertion which they respectively supply, that the
superiority of the Utopian to the conventional type of education is perhaps most pronounced.
I have said that Egeria allies herself with the expansive forces of Nature. The teacher of
the conventional type has to fight against those forces. Let us assume that the two teachers
are on a level in respect of their capacity for influencing and stimulating their pupils, and
let us indicate that level by the algebraical symbol x. Then the difference between the motive
force which Egeria exerts, and the motive force which her rival exerts, is the difference between
x + y, and x - y, y being used to symbolise the aggregate motive force of the expansive tendencies
of the child's inner nature. Such a difference is incalculable. The scheme of education which
is based on distrust of the child's nature and belief in its intrinsic sinfulness and stupidity,
necessarily arrays against itself the hidden forces of that maligned and despised nature, and
must needs overcome their resistance before it can hope to achieve its proposed end. While
Egeria is helping Nature to provide suitable channels for the various expansive tendencies
that are at work in the child, and to guide them all into the central channel of self-realisation,
her rival is engaged in digging a canal (to be filled, when finished, with dead, stagnant water)
which is so designed that not only will no use be made by it of the life stream of the child's
latent energies, but also costly culverts and other works will have to be constructed for it
in order to divert and send to waste that troublesome current.

The waste of motive force which goes on under any scheme of education through mechanical obedience,
is indeed enormous. And what is most lamentable is that the energies of the teacher are being
largely wasted in the effort to neutralise the latent energies of the child. No wonder that,
in order to produce his meagre and illusory, "results," the teacher should have to resort to
motive forces which, by appealing to the lower side of the child's nature, will enable him
to bear down the resistance, and, in doing so, to impede the outgrowth of the higher,--to the
hope of external rewards and the threat of external punishments. And no wonder that, owing
to the teacher having to work unceasingly against the grain of the child's nature, of these
two demoralising forces, the fear of punishment--which, if not the more demoralising, is certainly
the more wasteful of energy--should bulk the more largely in the eyes of the child.

In fine, then, whereas the conventional type of education is so wasteful of motive force that
it dissipates the greater part of the teachers' and the scholars' energies in needless friction,--in
Utopia, on the other hand, there is such an economy of motive force that the very joy which,
under its scheme of education, always accompanies the child's expenditure of energy, and which
might be regarded as merely a waste by-product, becomes in its turn a powerful incentive to
further exertion.

       *       *       *       *       *

"But is there not too much joy in Utopia? Is not the sky too cloudless? Is not the atmosphere
too clear? Does the Utopian never act from a sense of duty? Has he never to do anything that
is distasteful to him?" This objection raises an interesting question. Is the function of the
sense of duty to enable us to do distasteful things? And if so, are we to regard it as the
highest of motives to moral action? In the days when Kant's idea of the "moral imperative"
was in the ascendant, the belief got abroad that the essence of virtue was to do what you hated
doing. Looking back to my Oxford days, I recall some doggerel lines, of German origin, in which
this belief finds apt expression. 

  The railroad was not completely finished more than to the right
  place. Today comes to Turin.

  

  # TURIN. #
  
  The capital of Piedmont, which I had dreamed of beautiful, is a beautiful
city, it is undeniable, but extremely monotonous and insubstantial.

  
  
  All streets are cut from the same pattern, annoying and equality
  so tired studied: its magnificent arches, which have been prudently
  distributed to the city appearance, beautified, hold the view that
limited circle monotonous tired to disgust.

  
  
  Although the town is small colossal plazas abound: the most Beauty
to me is the Victorio Emmanuel, to the extent the city.

  
  
  Its extension is prodigious, to find encircled by three walls of
  essential arcs, like all high and spacious.

  Opens in a semicircle on the side of the long street which leads
  straight to the square of the Palazzo Vecchio.
  
  At the foot of the vast square is the historical tendency Po,
  with its clear and abundant waves. From the center of that square
  is a table very picturesque: the mighty river, which saves an elegant
  stone bridge of five arches, at the end of which, and facing,
  stands the church of the Gran Madre di He, with its cupolas
  and slender crown, and a humble peristyle by colonnaded front: right
and left and closing the horizon, artistic mountains, pompously dressed
vegetables.

  
  
  On the right, and located on a scenic hill, is presented
  a convent of friars, to the left, the beautiful church of the Superga,
with elegant columns, two towers and a graceful dome.

  
  

  Before going further I want to point me the impression that was
  the view of the friars.
  
  In Venice, where he first was able to examine closely a monk. Accustomed
  to hearing about them from my childhood in the makes sense now,
  persuaded me that it is an institution happened fortunately for
  humanity, and what happened never to return ever, without having
  a clear idea of ​​them, because in Spain were abolished when
  I was seven, I frankly confess that he passed to me the first to
be offered to my view Venice, I left an almost spontaneously repulsive.

I

  watched him curiously short, and when I lost sight of me congratulated
  again, as he had done before, that there I have in my country.

I
  am convinced beyond all doubt that the monks have passed forever
and fortunately, all human institutions have the time.

  
  
  Another good places Turin is the Carignano: wide spacious, with majestic
buildings.

  
  

  The Old Palace Square, behind which lies the king of Sardinia
  in a building called the palace, by mistake without doubt, is large
  and clear as any in the city to it lead to the most elegant streets,
  where trading has its luxury shops [24].
  

  The Old Palace, which provides isolated in the middle of the square,
  not interested one minute achieved in spite of his venerable age
  historical color. His canvases uneven and abandoned their old
  towers, its dark practicable balcony poor, your wretched stature
  that does not even come with a lot to the size of the palaces,
  all together in a word offer nothing to admire, reason why
  we move forward, and truth is a no small trouble to me, I do
  not know where to take the reader as Turin Venice is different [25]!

One
  of the most beautiful ornaments of the capital of Piedmont me, of
course, and nothing is to men.

  
  

  I speak of the magnificent Alps, always wonderfully impressive,
  with its snow-white hair secular.

  
  The name of the nation amply indicates the situation of Alps in Turin,
Piedmont, ie, at the foot of the mountains.

  
  
  Indeed, entering into many streets of Turin, straight and mostly
  flat, suddenly preséntanse the Alps closing the horizon,
  closing the street at the foot materially. This
  superb decoration, that both captivates and enchants me, beautifies
  my eyes the streets of Torino, close horizons with majestic mountains
  to silver splendor of the dazzling sun, offers in the City splendid
  magnificence with which God graced perfect work, and beautifies all,
the box and accidents.

  
  
  This intimate neighborhood of the Alps, makes the winter Turin is
too cold, although its action is neutralized and in Switzerland by
the frequency and abundance of snow.

  
  

  The churches of Turin, considered under the aspect of art,
  no offer absolutely nothing to admire [26].
  
  Turin is perhaps the only population that lacks Italy monumental temples,
churches where art shines: toured many and not found one worthy of
praise, it is understood under the qualification of art.

  
  
  One of the most picturesque sites around Turin is Regina della Vigna
called: lushness and vegetables, cheerful and white houses, hills
all handsome.

  
  
  A short distance from the bridge of the Po, which links as I said
  Victor Manuel square to the Church of the Great Mother of God
  just built a suspension bridge that I crossed after have paid a short
amount required by the passage, according to happening in London on
several bridges.

  

  
  Dora also be at the Torino.
  

  A large street, very wide and spacious, with double rows trees surrounding
  the town on one side, it's a very good ride beautifies the
  proximity of the Po.
  
  In Turin, there are many libraries that mostly takes the Paris trade:
encuéntranse many good books: reading rooms and libraries, as well
as other Turin literary establishments are mounted and understood.

  
  
  In terms of hotels and cafes are plentiful, especially the
  latter, which are everywhere. Theaters, Real exception, are of poor
  appearance, they were very little encouraged when I saw them:
  it is true that the tragic Ristori with all the theater company's
first line of Turin, was in Paris, where after I saw it.

  
  
  Attended a performance of Linda in a miserable theater called Cervino,
theater is to the right of the square Victor Manuel.

  
  
  The company was detestable, the provincial orchestra, the called
  inside the theater difficult to describe: the Linda sang,
  very ugly, with Donizetti's forgiveness, which is said to I had not
really known.

  The best theater of Turin is Royal.
  

  One of the visits abroad must be dispensed in any Turin is the
  Egyptian Museum.
  

  The building where the collection is an ancient Egyptian palace
  is one of the main streets of Turin, the New Street.

  
  
  In the same literary establishment is a corporation and a
  Cabinet agriculture.
  
  As I said in Turin, the collection of mummies and statues I speak
Egyptian, was collected and purchased by a Frenchman who Luis Felipe
wanted to sell.

  It appears that the absence of agreed price, Carlos Alberto
  who asked for and offered the got it, thereby enriching his country
  with a rare and precious collection.
  

  On the ground floor of the building, occupying two rooms, statues,
  busts, columns and ruins of temples, all pure Egyptian, with its
unintelligible hieroglyphics and their corresponding inscriptions.

  
  
  This collection is curious and worthy of more than one concept be
  accessed.

  
  There, in the presence of those columns, the old is reborn, and
  Egypt, which before it was Greece that the cradle of knowledge
  and a very advanced civilization, especially in arts, holds still
  young and artistic.
  

  There are there five or six statues of the gods that infinite Egyptian
  polytheism created to please on all passions, even the most awkward.

  Also found in this collection four or five miniature
  Egyptian temple, give accurate and complete idea of ​​the real,
  because they contain up the smallest detail.

  
  
  On the top floor are the mummies, perfectly preserved and intact,
after the centuries that count.

  
  

  Among them is a priest of a remote Egyptian Seniority: cuéntanse
  sixteen or eighteen admirably preserved.

  
  The cabinet of natural history is also interesting: it is composed
  the rich collections of birds, quadrupeds, birds, etc.., etc.,
  in very good number.

  
  There are some very friendly employees, who through a greeting expressive
  hands, explain and teach everything.
  

  There too, as in our Madrid, taught very well dissected and
  put the huge skeleton of a megatherium.
  

  The three mineral, animal and plant with different ramifications
  and families, are fairly represented in rich collections. The
  cabinet held a variety of rooms, the objects are very well classified.

The
  museum of paintings, who lives near the palace Victor Manuel, is
poorly poor and hardly worth an hour of examination: It is composed
mostly of copies, and good teachers schools of Venice, Florence and
Rome do not appear there.

  
  
  The general appearance of Turin, is a town has four days of existence,
  everything is new, everything is new, all modern.

  
  

  In vain the traveler asks where are the buildings that Everywhere
  there were generations, it is useless Turin will find the preceding
  day, it is not found, does not exist.
  
  This, very meritorious for me, I look for in a people their history
  and their past, coupled with its tired monotony of a business as
usual, I did leave Turin to the few days after my arrival.

  
  

  The same think happens to all foreigners like me go with
  the sole purpose of visit.
  
  The communications system, since it has entered Piedmont in good
  faith in the path of a constitutional people, traveling no obstacles
  to its development and progress, has received a important momentum,
helping to enrich their present and the future because it is known
that communications are now a safe source of progress and wealth.

  
  

  Turin departing from different well-built railways full of life
  and animation.
  

  For all sites that are delivering life and travel movement,
  people close to the capital change advantageously, and general
  utility, all products; promote the works of utility and pleasure
  wherever they go, and increase in short public wealth, as
  in all countries that have good communications.
  

  In Turin there railroads to Novara, Genoa, Alexandria Suse, to the
foot of the Alps.

  
  
  The lines are all very important, especially Novara and Genoa: the
coaches are good, excellent grading, movement and service.

  
  
  The railway from Turin to Suse, about fourteen line Spanish leagues,
  speaks volumes on behalf of Piedmont. The line important in every
  respect, walking on the side of the Alps and direction to the Savoy,
overcoming great obstacles materials, as are the slopes of these tremendous
mountains around Turin.

  
  
  This was the one I I chose to return to Switzerland.
  

  I left Turin at three in the afternoon: to half past four we
  came to Suse, playing physically with Mount Cenis, and therefore
  with immense heights to climb.
  
  His tenure there is no longer possible, I had taken note from
  Turin to Geneva: come to Suse I went up to the coach, pulled by vigorous
fourteen mules and nine after rising steadily hours, we reached the
summit of the highest mountain, snowcapped bright.

  
  
  It was two thirty in the morning, in a hotel there There
  we had coffee with milk, and continued on our way to since there
  is a decline, and steady decline, no stopped a moment to reach
  the same Geneva.
  
  The road is superb, imposing, magnificent: the Alps, those mighty
mountains that I had the unparalleled pleasure of crossing for different
sites, those high mountains that large Carthage son went through the
first, one of the miracles aborted his genius, volunteered again to
my astonishment the through the Savoy.

  
  
  Swollen with snow deep valleys, waterfalls and bustling bright cliffs
  of immeasurable grandeur, the small San Bernardo, hills and contours
  secular Profile picturesque, stunning saves road and crosses from
  Suse side, near Turin, to the very streets Geneva, all these
  incidents together, made my trip a scholar and enjoyable recreation,
it produced a non- interrupted series of bleak emotions.

  
  
  Half a league from Chambery, the capital of the Savoy [27],
  begin to see the magnificent and numerous cottages that Savoy
  aristocracy and the English and Germans who have travel built
  around him. Is a delightful place of recreation in summer, with
  the agreeable vicinity of the Alps, Chamouny picturesque, Mont
  Blanc, the Hospice of San Bernardo, and Glaciers.
  
  The capital of the Savoy has very few charms for traveler, there
  are only two good roads: the end of the main, is a monument to
  a man truly dedicated large and modest: it is a marble fountain,
surmounted by a bronze statue, a bust of the illustrious city of Chambery
[28] bequeathed part of his immense wealth to the poor, who raised
and founded by real estate own the home for foundlings, which behind
her statue stands, who created and endowed a school free education
for the poor, and did enfin other many important works of charity,
earning the love of those who knew him, assured him the veneration
of those who living and respect for those to come.

  
  
  There are two good hotels in Chambery and many other medium, a small
theater, a cathedral curious, some cafes and a street chic boutiques.

  
  
  From Chambery to Geneva, there are some people important: the countryside
  is well cultivated as possible, and is very clean and cheerful appearance
of the people that go to step from Chambery to Geneva.

  
  
  I arrived at that city which I have described in speaking of Switzerland,
and from Geneva to Bern, I found more comfort in No country in Europe.

  
  
  I made the journey in fourteen hours over and Yverdon
  Neuchatel, traveling by steam lakes, soil vapor in diligence and
buses, all within a short time, and admirably.

  
  
  And this concludes my notes from the trip to Italy: the memory Venice's
  most agreeable eternal and carefully will keep my memory: none
  of the big cities I've visited both in Europe and America, I have
  produced the emotion that Queen of the Adriatic was in my mind, it
is true that Venice does not seem to any city.

  
  

  Over the Alps on the Gotthard is worth in itself a Travel:
  good memories too.

  
  Italy has excellent roads, and the media everyday communication
  are a big boost.
  

  Piedmont march at the head of the other towns of Italy, and their
  well-built railroads, and soon cover subject to a single common
  center, the different provinces constitute the kingdom.
  
  I say nothing of Florence, because only stayed twenty-four hours on
its premises; fáltame carefully visit Rome and Naples.

  Y Now they are collected and digest my impressions Italy, the reader
is to me a short expedition to that was a Lola Montes theater day,
and from there to Vienna.

  

  
  # Germany. #
  
  Berne to Munich, capital of Bavaria, there is only one walk.

  
  
  This circumstance, which gave me the desired pleasure little
  known in Germany, the more people thinker Europe, I decided to
  take a short walk from Berne to Munich, and thence to Vienna.

  
  
  From the federal capital of Switzerland to Zurich, diligence travels
  the distance in thirteen hours: there we take the short stretch
  of road there is iron, it rises back up to the care for three hours,
and arrive at the border of Bavaria, and from there to Munich, railroad,
three hours.

  
  
  Communications in Germany are somewhat different from all the rest
  of Europe: the severe formality that characterizes children of
  the Germania, even in the most insignificant detail life, a special
character to all that they do, to everything they undertake.

  
  
  The dignity and humble spirit together, make the German complacent
beings and formal, which I prefer with great interest to the false
and courtesy of the French, dry and tasteless roughness of the English,
and to the humiliating hint of Italian.

  
  
  I love Germany, I had the pleasure and satisfaction to see confirmed
  the views he had formed of European nations that I visited before
  leaving Spain.
  
  True to judge people is indispensable visit: the frequent and
  continued dealings with foreign make it disappear completely
  and forever that prevention to treat them has even the most educated
  man when it has not never left his country. They see and learn
  many new things widens the circle of knowledge, takes an idea
  some of the state of people living beyond the borders of their country,
  they acquired imperceptibly and without noticing a sum of special
knowledge, studying, see, touch, compare, it runs exactly on rise
and fall of nations.

  We analyze the spirit age of each village, attends to his interior
  life, you learn much in a word.
  
  There is no book more precious than the journey, that is, to put
  well, a geography practice: but it is also true, resuming truncated
my thought, there can be a general ideas form on other countries without
leaving their own, and those are precisely what I have confirmed with
my travels.

  
  

  Always my predilection In reviewing the nations remember to Germany.

I
  hasten to protest against the deduction that could be assuming
  that in politics I prefer the larger system German governments,
  not in any way, and even this protest was useless, as are written
  and published my opinions on the government of Austria.

  
  
  No, not that, I mean the German intelligence, German thinker of the
German writers, of Germany studious and serious, the German-educated
and deep.

  
  
  It is without doubt the most advanced nation Germany in Europe
  lyrics, the more people who meditate and read, the people who have
more literary consciousness, but righteousness thinker, if I use the
phrase.

  
  
  To enter Germany and begins to feel the noise leaky press books,
  the flight of the illustrated newspapers circulating, faces begin
  to be serious that the study and only the study folding, not the
political turmoil in other countries, not in existence as stunned
more.

  
  
  In Germany, unlike France, is read and studied more than is written.

  But by chance something can be compared in these two peoples?

The
  literary Spain is very popular in Switzerland and Germany, and
  England also, in Germany especially, where ceaselessly studies
  and results, comments and admires the literary treasure our country.

  

  
  But let's get into Munich, that but never arrive.
  
  A circumstance indispensable for foreigners who visit the capital
  of Bavaria and want to take full advantage is ... of knowing buried
in his stomach at least a dozen glasses of beer per day means, if
you can drink more better.

  
  
  No joke that just joined, it is true, drink beer all day and everywhere,
  with it you engage the illustrated literary polemics that make
  up life at Munich; as it appears it facilitates the use of
  the word discútense arts, literature, history, every day,
  forever, "but How? admirable, admirable, with deep knowledge, spirit
quite clear, with sound and high critical.

  
  

  In Germany it happens everyday to review the literatures of Europe,
  but magazine thorough, reasoned, profound.
  
  To enjoy the immense charm, which to me is, to discuss on letters,
  you need to know to drink beer is not beer of London, is not giving
  pale ale in the taverns of capital of Albion and the British hold
dear, no, is a nice beer that I liked very, very much, for using I
witnessed it lively and interesting discussions.

  
  

  The first visit abroad in Munich is the famous gallery of paintings
  that enriches the city [29].
  
  There is certainly plenty to see and admire in the Museum of Munich.
  It consists of nine rooms, there are superb collections of painters
  Flemish and German; delicious paintings of the Italian school and
marvelous pictures of the Spanish; there Murillos, Zurbaranes and
Velasquez, the sculpture gallery is rich in monuments Ancient Greece
and works of Canova.

  
  
  The formation of the Munich museum has chaired the order and good
  taste, the enlightened monarch who has been at the forefront
  of nation until recently, that monarch artist who has made many
  trip to Rome just to study, that both protected the artists, has
spent many sleepless nights at the magnificent gallery I speak. But though the doors of Heaven may be closed against a few exceptional scoundrels,
they are nowadays thrown open to all the rest of Mankind; and the maxim, "Live anyhow, and
you will be saved somehow," seems to sum up with tolerable accuracy the popular attitude towards
the twofold problem of duty and destiny.

I do not for a moment suggest that this happy-go-lucky eschatology is formally countenanced
by the Churches and Sects. They would doubtless repudiate it with indignation; but the fact
remains that their own teaching is largely responsible for it. For not only is the idea of
natural retribution wholly foreign to the genius of supernaturalism, but also, in the two great
schools of Western theology, there is, and always has been, a strong tendency to undervalue
conduct (in the broad, human sense of the word), and to make the means of salvation mechanical
rather than vital. At any rate the sacramental teaching of the Catholic Church, and the Calvinistic
doctrine of salvation through faith in the finished work of Christ, readily lend themselves
to such an interpretation.

So ineffective is the current eschatology, in its bearing on conduct, that the latent energy
of Man's nature--his latent desire to have a central purpose in life--is compelling him to
work out for himself another and a more mundane conception of salvation, to set before himself
as the end of life the winning of certain temporal prizes, and to keep this end steadily in
view from day to day and from year to year. Such a conception of salvation has always had a
strong attraction for him, though in his more orthodox days he found it desirable to subordinate
it to, or if possible harmonise it with, the conception which his religion dictated to him;
and of late its attractiveness has been increased by the fact that he is beginning to throw
his eschatology (even in its present emasculated form) to the winds.

So far, I have had in my mind those quarters of Western thought in which the belief in the
reality of the soul and the kindred belief in immortality still survive. But in point of fact
both beliefs are dying before our eyes,--dying as a dumb protest against the inadequacy of
the popular philosophy, against the intrinsic incredibility of its premises, against its fundamental
misconception of the meaning of life and the nature and conditions of salvation, above all
against the way in which the beliefs themselves have been persistently misinterpreted and travestied.
And where the beliefs are dying, the latent externalism and materialism of Western thought
and Western life are able to assert themselves without let or hindrance. "To be saved," as
the phrase is now widely understood, means to get on in life, to succeed in business or in
a profession, to make money, to rise in the social scale (if necessary, on the shoulders of
others), to force one's way to the front (if necessary, by trampling down others), to be talked
about in the daily papers, to make a "splash" in some circle or coterie,--in these and in other
ways to achieve some measure of what is called "success."

And in proportion as this mundane conception of salvation tends to establish itself, so does
the drift towards social and political anarchy, which is now beginning to alarm all the lovers
of order and "progress," tend to widen its range and accelerate its movement. For though the
current idea of achieving salvation through "success" is a comfortable doctrine for the successful
few, it is the reverse of comfortable for the unsuccessful many, among whom the idea is gaining
ground that as salvation is the reward, not of virtue, but of a judicious blend of cleverness,
unscrupulousness, selfishness, and greed, there is no reason, in the moral order of things,
why it should not be wrested from those who are enjoying it, either by organised social warfare
or by open violence and crime. And even if an anarchical outbreak should result in perdition
all round instead of salvation all round, it would at least be some consolation to the "lost"
to feel that they had dragged the "saved" down into their own bottomless pit. This would not
be a lofty sentiment; yet I do not see who is in a position to condemn it,--not the supporter
of the existing social order, which legalises a general scramble, first for the "prizes" of
life and then for the bare means of subsistence, and is well content that in that scramble
the weak, the ignorant, and the unfortunate should go to the wall,--not the exponent of the
conventional theology, which has taught men to dream of a Heaven in which the happiness of
the "elect" will be unruffled by the knowledge that an eternity of misery is the doom of perhaps
a majority of their fellow-men.

In the West, then, there are two conceptions of salvation,--a selfish, worldly conception which
is daily becoming more effective, and a selfish other-worldly conception which is daily becoming
more ineffective, and is therefore less and less able to compete with or control its rival.
Out of the attempts that are made to realise both these conceptions and to keep them on friendly
terms with one another, there is emerging a state of chaos--political, social, moral, spiritual,--a
weltering chaos of new and old ideals, new and old theories of life, new and old standards
of values, new and old centres of authority, new and old ambitions and dreams. And in this
chaos there are only two principles of order, the first (which is also the ultimate cause of
all our disorder) being the pathetic fact that nearly all the actors in the bewildering drama
are still seeking for happiness outside themselves, the second being the fundamental goodness
of man's heart.

I will now go back to Utopia. There a new conception of salvation is implicit in the new theory
of education which has revolutionised the life of the school. Humble as is the sphere and small
as is the scale of Egeria's labours, her work is, I firmly believe, of world-wide importance
and lasting value, for she has provided an experimental basis for the idea that salvation is
to be achieved by growth, and growth alone.

I will now try to interpret that idea.

The education of the child in school begins when he is four or five years old, and lasts till
he is thirteen or fourteen. But he enters the path of salvation the day he is born. He comes
into the world a weak, helpless baby; but, like every other seedling, he has in him all the
potencies of perfection,--the perfection of his kind. To realise those potencies, so far as
they can be realised within the limits of one earth-life, is to achieve salvation. Are those
potencies worth realising? To this question I can but answer: "Such as they are, they are our
all." We might ask the same question with regard to an acorn or a grain of wheat; and in each
case the answer would be the same. There are, indeed, plants and animals which are noxious
from our point of view. But that is not the view which they take of themselves. Each of them
regards his own potencies in the light of a sacred trust, and strives with untiring energy
to realise them. If the potencies of our nature are not worth realising we had better give
up the business of living. If they are, we had better fall into line with other living things.

An unceasing pressure is being put upon us to do so. The perfect manhood which is present in
embryo in the new-born infant, just as the oak-tree is present in embryo in the acorn, will
struggle unceasingly to evolve itself. With the dawn of self-consciousness, we shall gradually
acquire the power of either co-operating with, or thwarting, the spontaneous energies that
are welling up in us and making for our growth. In this respect we stand, in some sort, apart
from the rest of living things. But the power to co-operate with our own spontaneous energies
is to the full as natural as are the energies themselves. To fathom the mystery of self-consciousness
is beyond my power and beside my present purpose; but we may perhaps regard our power of interfering,
for good or ill, with the spontaneous energies of our nature, as the outcome of a successful
effort which our nature has made both to widen the sphere of its own life and to accelerate
the process of its own growth. But just because we possess that power, it is essential that
we, above all other living things, should believe in ourselves, should believe in the intrinsic
value of our natural potencies, with a whole-hearted faith. For if we do not, we shall hinder
instead of helping the forces that are at work in us, and we shall retard instead of accelerating
the process of our growth.

We have seen that education in the West has hitherto been a failure because, owing to the ascendency
of the doctrine of original sin, it has been based on distrust of human nature; and we have
seen that in Utopia, where Egeria's faith in human nature is so profound that she has allowed
the children to go far towards educating themselves, the results achieved have gone beyond
my wildest dream of what was practicable, at any rate within the limits of the school life
of village children. What is true of education is true a fortiori of salvation. If it is impossible
to construct a satisfactory scheme of education on the basis of distrust of human nature, it
is even more impossible (if there are degrees in impossibility) to construct on the same basis
a satisfactory scheme of salvation. I have already contended that if education is to be reformed,
the doctrine of original sin must go; and I now contend that if our philosophy of life is to
be reformed, we must abandon, not that doctrine only, but the whole dualistic philosophy which
centres in the opposition of Nature to the Supernatural. For trust in human nature--the microcosm--is
impossible, so long as Nature--the macrocosm--is liable to be disparaged and discredited (in
our minds) by the visionary splendours of the Supernatural world; and to devise a harmonious
scheme of life is impossible so long as an inharmonious conception of the Universe dominates
our thought,--a conception so inharmonious that it divides the Universe, the All of Being,
into two hostile camps, and in doing so introduces the "war of the worlds" into each individual
life.

When a fruit-grower plants a fruit-tree, he does three things for it. By choosing an appropriate
soil and aspect, he brings adequate supplies of nourishment within reach of it. By manuring
it at the right season, he both adds to its store of nourishment and gives it the stimulus
which will help it to absorb and assimilate the nourishment that is immediately available for
its use. And, by pruning and training it judiciously, he gives it the guidance which will enable
it to develop itself to the best advantage from the fruit-bearing point of view (fruit-bearing
being the end which he sets it). He does these three things for it, but he does no more than
these. He realises that in all these operations he is only taking advantage of the innate powers
and tendencies of the tree, and enabling these to deploy themselves under as favourable conditions
as possible; and he is therefore well content to leave the rest to the tree itself, feeling
sure that its own spontaneous effort to achieve perfection will do all that is needed. His
trust in the ability and willingness of the tree to work out its salvation is complete.

These are the lines on which the farmer and the fruit-grower conduct their business,--lines,
the neglect of which would involve them in early disaster and in ultimate ruin. And these are
the lines on which human nature ought to be trained, in school and out of school, from the
day of birth to the day of death. But they are lines on which it will never be trained so long
as the doctrine of the depravity of Nature in general and human nature in particular controls
our philosophy of life.

The doctrine of natural depravity, or original sin, is the outcome of Man's attempt to explain
to himself the glaring fact of his own imperfection. The doctrine grew up in an age when men
were ignorant of the fundamental laws of Nature, and among a people who, though otherwise richly
gifted, had no turn for sustained thought. So long as men were ignorant of Nature's master
law of evolution, it was but natural that they should account for their own imperfection by
looking back to a Golden Age,--a state of innocence and bliss from which they had somehow fallen,
and to which they could not, by any effort or process of their corrupted nature, hope to return.
While this idea--half myth and half doctrine--was growing up in the mind of Israel, the counter
idea of the evolution or growth of the soul, of its ascent from "weak beginnings" towards a
state of spiritual perfection, was growing up among the thinkers of India, and the derivative
doctrine of salvation through the natural process of soul-growth was being gradually elaborated.
But though the philosophy of India produced some impression on the conscious thought, and a
far deeper impression on the subconscious thought, of the West, its master idea of spiritual
evolution--through a long sequence of lives--was wholly foreign to the genius of Christendom,
which had borrowed its ideas from the commonplace philosophy of Israel; and it was not till
the nineteenth century of our era that the idea of evolution began to make its way, from the
quarter of physical science, into Western thought.

The doctrine of original sin must once have had a meaning and a purpose. For one thing, it
must have been generated by a sudden rise in Man's moral standard; and as such it must have
had a salutary influence on his conduct and inward life. But it is now outstaying its welcome.
The Biblical story of the Fall, in virtue of which it was once authoritatively taught, is ceasing
to be regarded as serious history; and the doctrine must therefore either justify itself to
critical thought or resign itself to rejection as inadequate and unsound. But there is only
one line of defence which its supporters can take. As the doctrine was the outcome of Man's
premature attempt to explain the fact of his own imperfection, if it is to survive in the world
of ideas it must be able to show, first and foremost, that the fact in question cannot be accounted
for on other grounds. Will it be able to do this, at a time when the idea of evolution is beginning
to impregnate our mental atmosphere, and in doing so is making us realise that we are near
of kin to all other living things, and that our lives, like theirs, are dominated by the master-law
of growth?

That there is much moral evil in the world is undeniable. Are we therefore to predicate original
depravity of man's heart and soul? But there is also much physical evil in the world,--pain,
weakness, disease, decay, and death. Are we therefore to predicate original depravity of man's
body? And this physical evil, this liability to disease, is not confined to man, but also affects
all other living things. Are we therefore to predicate original depravity of a new-born lamb,
of a new-laid egg, of an acorn, of a grain of wheat?

Let us consider certain typical forms of moral evil, and see if we can account for them, without
having recourse to the hypothesis of original sin. The vicious propensities which manifest
themselves in children and "young persons" may be divided into two main classes, apparent and
actual.[25] Of the former class the chief cause is, in a word, immaturity. Of the latter, environment.

Analogies drawn from plant life may help us to understand how these causes operate.

Immaturity. But if the same man were to wait till October and then eat an apple from the same
tree, he would form a wholly different conception of its value. It is the same with the growing
child. Most of his vices are virtues in the making. During the first year or so of his life
he is a monster of selfishness; and selfishness is the most comprehensive and far-reaching
of all vicious tendencies. Does this mean that he has been conceived in sin? Not in the least.
It means that he is making a whole-hearted effort to guard and unfold the potencies of life--in
the first instance, of physical life--which have been entrusted to him. It means that he has
entered the path of self-realisation, and that if he will be as faithful to that path during
the rest of his life as he has been during those early months of uncompromising selfishness,
he will be able at last to scale the loftiest heights of self-forgetfulness and self-sacrifice.

Environment. The influences which environment exerts seem to fall under three heads--

(1) General influences of a more or less permanent character, such as home, neighbourhood,
social grade, etc.

(2) General influences of a more or less variable character, such as education, employment,
friendship, etc.

 (3) Particular influences, such as companionship (good or bad),
literature (wholesome or pernicious), places of amusement (elevating
or debasing), special opportunities for self-sacrifice or
self-indulgence, etc.

Corresponding to these in plant-life we have--

  (1) Soil, situation, and climate:
  (2) Cultivation and weather:
  (3) The various insects and micro-organisms which are ready to
  assail or protect growing life.

(1) If two acorns from the same tree were sown, the one in a deep clay soil and a favourable
situation, the other in a light sandy soil and an unfavourable situation, the former would
in time develop into a large and shapely, the latter into a puny and misshapen oak-tree. It
would be the same, mutatis mutandis, with two human beings who were exposed from their earliest
days to widely different permanent influences.

(2) If wheat of a certain strain were sown on the same day in two adjoining fields, one of
which was well farmed and the other badly farmed, the resulting crops would differ widely in
yield and value. It would be the same with two human beings, one of whom (to take a pertinent
example) attended a school of Utopian tendencies, and the other a school of a more conventional
type. Of all moralising (or demoralising) influences education is by far the most important,
owing to the fact that it can do more, and is in a position to do more, than any other influence
either to foster or to hinder growth.

The influence of weather on plant-life is, of course, enormous. In one year the fruit-crop
in a given neighbourhood is a failure: in another year it gluts the market. One explanation
of this fact, which has its exact analogies in human life, will be given in the next paragraph.

(3) All forms of life are exposed to the attacks of enemies of various kinds. Whether they
shall beat off those attacks or succumb to them depends in large measure on the nature of the
growth that they are making; and this again depends, largely if not wholly, on the nature of
the general influences to which they have been exposed. For many years I lived in a district
in which hops were grown on a large scale; and I naturally took an interest in the staple industry
of my adopted county. I noticed that whenever (during the summer months) there came a spell
of cold winds from the north-east--winds which tend to arrest plant-growth--the hop-bines were
at once assailed by blight and other pests, and the safety of the growing crop was imperilled.
And I noticed further that when the wind got round to the south-west, and warm showers began
to stimulate the growth of the flagging plants, the pests that had assailed them disappeared
as if by magic, and the anxieties of the growers were relieved. As it is with plants, so it
is with human beings. They too have their enemies,--temptations of various kinds and other
evil influences that "war against the soul." And they too will be able to beat off their assailants
just so far as their own growth is vigorous and healthy; and will succumb to their attacks,
to their own serious detriment, just so far as their own growth is feeble and sickly.

The bearing of this fact on the problem of the origin of moral evil is obvious. That the evils
which assail the organism, be it a plant or a human being, are not inherent in its nature,
is proved by the fact that when the growth of the organism is normal and unimpeded, the assailants
are always beaten off. As it is the growth of the organism--the development of its own nature--which
enables it to resist the evils that threaten it, we must assume that its nature is good. Indeed
the evils that threaten it are called evils for no other reason than that they imperil its
well-being; and it follows that in calling them evils we imply that the organism is intrinsically
good.

When we have eliminated from human nature the vicious tendencies which are due either to immaturity
or to the numberless influences that come under the general head of environment, we shall find
that a very small percentage remain to be accounted for. We need not have recourse to the doctrine
of original sin in order to account for these. So far I have said nothing about heredity, partly
because its influence on the moral development of the individual is, I think, very small compared
with that of environment, and partly because it is impossible to consider the extent and character
of its influence, without going deeply into certain large and complicated problems. For example,
it would be impossible for me to say much about the current, though gradually waning, belief
in the force of heredity, without saying something about its Far Eastern equivalent, the belief
in re-incarnation,--in other words, without asking whether a man inherits from his parents
and other ancestors, or from his former selves. That different persona are born with widely
different moral tendencies and propensities, is as certain as that some strains of wheat are
hardier and more productive than others. And it is possible, and even probable, that there
are exceptional cases of moral evil which point to congenital depravity, and cannot otherwise
be accounted for. But in these admissions I am making no concession to the believer in original
sin; for he regards human nature as such as congenitally depraved, and therefore can take no
cognisance of exceptional cases of congenital depravity, cases which by breaking the rule that
the new-born child is morally and spiritually healthy, may be said to prove it.

In fine, then, all moral evil can be accounted for on grounds which are quite compatible with
the assumption that the normal child is healthy, on all the planes of his being, at the moment
of his birth. That he carries with him into the world the capacity for being affected by adverse
influences of various kinds, is undeniable; but so does every other living thing; and if congenital
depravity is to be predicated of him for that reason, it must also be predicated of every new-born
animal and plant.

But the final proof that Man is by nature a child of God, is one which has already been hinted
at, and will presently be further developed,--namely, that growth--the healthy, vigorous growth
of the whole human being, the harmonious development of his whole nature--is in its essence
a movement towards moral and spiritual perfection. And the final proof that the doctrine of
Man's congenital depravity is false is the practical one that the doctrine is ever tending
to fulfil its own gloomy predictions, and to justify its own low estimate of human nature,--in
other words, that by making education repressive and devitalising, by introducing externalism,
with its endless train of attendant evils, into Man's daily life, and by making him disbelieve
in and even despair of himself, it has done more perhaps than all other influences added together
to deprave his heart and to wreck his life.

To one who has convinced himself that human nature is fundamentally good, in the sense that
the new-born child is as a rule sound and healthy on all the planes of his being, it must be
clear that the path of soul-growth or self-realisation is the only way of salvation. What salvation
means, what the path of self-realisation will do for him who enters it, is a theme to which
I could not hope to do justice within the limits of this work. I will therefore content myself
with indicating certain typical aspects of the process which I have called self-realisation,
and saying something about each of these. Four aspects suggest themselves to me as worthy of
special consideration,--the mental, the moral, the social, and the religious.[26]

The Mental Aspect of Self-realisation.

There are two features of the process of self-realisation, on the importance of which I cannot
insist too often or too strongly. The first is that the growth which the life of self-realisation
fosters is, in its essence, harmonious and many-sided. The second is that the life of self-realisation
is, from first to last, a life of self-expression, and that self-expression and perception
are the face and obverse of the same mental effort.

If the life of self-realisation did not provide for the growth of the self in its totality,
the self as a living whole, it would not be worthy of its name. One-sided growth, inharmonious
growth, growth in which some faculties are hypertrophied and others atrophied, is not self-realisation.
When trees are planted close together, as in the beech-forests of the Continent, they climb
to great heights in their struggle for air and light, but they make no lateral growth. When
trees are pollarded, they make abundant lateral growth, but they cease to climb upward. When
trees are exposed to the prevailing winds of an open sea-coast, they are blown over away from
the sea, and make all their growth, such as it is, on the landward side. When trees are on
the border of a thick plantation, they make all their growth towards the open air, and are
bare and leafless on the opposite side. In each of these cases the growth made is inharmonious
and one-sided: the balance between the two intersecting planes of growth, or between the two
opposite sides, has been lost. But when a tree is planted in the open, and when all the other
conditions of growth are favourable, it grows harmoniously in all directions,--upward, outward,
and all around. In other words, it is growing as a whole, growing, as it ought to grow, through
every fibre of its being, and yet maintaining a perfect symmetry of form and the harmony of
true proportion among its various parts.

This is the kind of growth which the soul makes in the life of self-realisation; and if it
falls appreciably short of this standard, if it develops itself on this side or that, to the
neglect of all other sides, then we must say of it that, though it is realising this or that
faculty or group of faculties, it is not realising itself. I have spoken of the six great expansive
instincts which indicate the main lines of the child's natural growth, and I have shown that
in Utopia the cultivation of all those instincts is duly provided for. In the life of self-realisation
the soul would continue to grow on the lines which those instincts had marked out for it. I
do not mean that when the child goes out into the work-a-day world, he must give to all six
instincts the systematic training which they received, or ought to have received, in school.
The exigencies of the daily round of life are such as to make that impossible, in all but the
most exceptional cases. But that is all the more reason why the expansive instincts should
be carefully and skilfully trained in school. For where they are so trained, an impetus is
given to each of them which will keep it alive and active long after the direct influence of
the school has ceased, and will enable it to absorb and assimilate whatever nutriment may come
in its way. If the Utopian training cannot be followed up, in its entirety, in the child's
after-life, it can at least initiate a movement which need never be arrested,--a movement in
the direction of the triune goal of Man's being, the goal towards which his expansive instincts
are ever tending to take him, the goal of Love, Beauty, and Truth.

The life of many-sided growth is also a life of self-expression. This means that the self-expression,
like the growth which it fosters, is many-sided; and this again means that the perceptive faculties,
which unfold themselves through the medium of self-expression, are not so much separate faculties
as a general capacity for getting on terms with one's environment and gaining an insight into
its laws and properties. In a school which lays itself out to teach one or two subjects thoroughly,
to the neglect of others, a sense, or special perceptive faculty, will gradually be evolved
by the study of each subject, provided, of course, that the path of self-expression is followed,--a
literary sense, a historical sense, a mathematical sense, and so on. But while these special
senses are being developed, the remaining perceptive faculties are being starved, and no attempt
is being made to cultivate that general capacity of which I have just spoken. The consequent
loss to the child, both in his school-life and in his after-life, is very great. For not only
is his mental growth one-sided and inharmonious, but even in the subjects in which he specialises
he will lose appreciably, owing to his special perceptive faculties not having as their background
any general capacity for seeing things as they are.

I will try to explain what I mean. In what is known as "Society" there is a valuable quality
called "tact," in virtue of which the man or woman who is endowed with it always says and does
"the right thing." This quality is compounded partly of sympathetic insight into the feelings,
actual and possible, of others, and partly of a keen and subtle sense for all the nuances of
social propriety. Like every other perceptive faculty, it is the outcome of self-expression,--of
years of self-expression on the plane of social intercourse. That general perceptive faculty,
or perceptive capacity, which is the outcome of years of self-expression on many sides of one's
being, has so much in common with the tact of the man of society, that the epithet tactful
may perhaps be applied to it. The larger, like the lesser, faculty is compounded, partly of
sympathetic insight into latent possibilities, and partly of a delicate sense for nuances of
all kinds. But even this formula does less than justice to its complex nature. Generated as
it is by a life of many-sided self-expression, it reflects its origin in its internal constitution.
Many elements of thought and feeling have woven themselves into it; and it is ready to take
a colour from each new environment or even from each new situation. It can become emotional,
for example, when the matter in hand appeals, in any sort or degree, to the emotions; and there
are occasions when its latent sense of humour becomes an invaluable antidote to that over-seriousness
which so often leads men astray. Above all, it is in its essence, imaginative, for it is ever
learning to picture things to itself as they are or as they might be; and the higher the level
and the wider the sphere of its activity, the more boldly imaginative it becomes. A faculty
so subtle and so sympathetic must needs play a vitally important rôle, not only when its possessor
is studying "subjects" or handling concrete problems, but also, and more especially, when he
is dealing with the "affairs of life"; and we can understand that when it is wholly or largely
lacking, each of the special faculties which specialising is supposed to foster will suffer
from not being tempered and yet vitalised by its all-penetrating influence.

That we may the better understand this, and the better understand what the path of self-realisation
does for the mental development of him who walks in it, let us ask ourselves what type of mind
the conventional type of education is likely to produce. And let us study the conventional
type of education on what is supposed to be its highest level. Let us consider the education
given to the sons of the "upper classes." And let us take this highest level at its own highest
level. Let us take the case of those who go through that tri-partite course of education which
begins in a high-class "Preparatory School," is continued in one of the "Great Public Schools,"
and is completed at Oxford or Cambridge. A boy enters a Preparatory School at the age of eight
or nine, and is there prepared, in general for entrance into one of the Great Public Schools,
and in particular for one of the competitive examinations on the results of which the entrance
scholarships of the Great Public Schools are awarded. He enters one of the Great Public Schools
at the age of thirteen or fourteen, and is there prepared, in general for admission to Oxford
or Cambridge, and in particular for the scholarship examinations of the various Oxford and
Cambridge Colleges. He enters Oxford or Cambridge at the age of eighteen or nineteen, and is
there prepared, directly for his degree examination--"Pass" or "Honours" as the case may be--and
indirectly for the public examination which admits to the Indian and Colonial, and the higher
grades of the Home, Civil Service. This course of education lasts about fourteen years, and
costs from £1,500 to £4,500.

What will it do for the boy who goes through it? The education given in the Preparatory School
is completely dominated by the scholarship and entrance examinations at the Great Public Schools.
The lines on which those examinations are conducted are the lines on which the Preparatory
Schoolmaster must educate his pupils. He has no choice in the matter. The title "Preparatory"
seals his doom. His business is, not to give his pupils the education that is best suited to
their capacities and their years, but to prepare them for admission to a more advanced school.
The more scholarships he can win at Eton, Harrow, Winchester, Rugby, and the rest, the higher
will be the repute of his school; and as the competition between school and school is fierce
and unintermittent, he cannot afford to throw away a single chance. In other words, he cannot
afford to make a single serious experiment. The education given in the Great Public Schools
is similarly dominated by the scholarship and entrance examinations held by the Oxford and
Cambridge Colleges. The lines on which those examinations are conducted are in the main the
lines on which the boys must be educated. It is possible that the Great Public Schools are
freer to go their own ways than are the Preparatory Schools; but if they are, they make but
little use of their freedom.

So far as the rank and file of the boys are concerned, it may be doubted if the word "educative"
is applicable, in any sense or degree, to the daily round of their work. Of the six great expansive
instincts which are struggling to evolve themselves in every healthy child, not one can be
said to find a congenial soil or a stimulating atmosphere in the ordinary classroom either
of the Preparatory or of the Public School. Four of the six--the dramatic, the artistic, the
musical, and the constructive--are entirely or almost entirely neglected. Music and Handwork[27]
are "extras" (a fatally significant word); the teaching of Drawing is, as a rule, quite perfunctory;
and Acting is not a recognised part of the school curriculum. The truth is that marks are not
given for these "subjects"--for in the eyes of the schoolmaster they are all "subjects"--in
any entrance or scholarship examination, and that therefore it does not pay to teach them.
There remain two instincts,--the communicative and the inquisitive. The study of the "Humanities"--History
and Literature, ancient and modern--ought to train the former; and the study of Science ought
to train the latter. But in the case of the average boy, the study of the Humanities resolves
itself, in the main, into a prolonged and unsuccessful tussle with the difficulties of the
Greek and Latin languages, the mastering of which is regarded as an end in itself instead of
as the gateway to the wonder-worlds of ancient life and thought; and the study of Science is,
as a rule, a pure farce.[28] Not one, then, of the expansive instincts of the average boy receives
any training during the nine or ten years of his school life; and as, in his struggle for the
"Pass" degree of his University, he will follow the lines on which he has been accustomed to
work in both his schools, he will go out into the world at the age of twenty-two or twenty-three,
the victim of a course of education which has lasted for fourteen years and cost thousands
of pounds, and which has done nothing whatever to foster his mental or spiritual growth. It
is true that in all the Public Schools a certain amount of informal education is done through
the medium of Musical Societies, Natural History Societies, Debating Societies, School Magazines,
and the like; that the discipline of a Public School, with its system of School and House prefects,
has considerable educational value; that the playing fields do something towards the formation
of character; that the boys, by exchanging experiences and discussing things freely among themselves,
help to educate one another; and that during the four months of each year which the schoolboy
spends away from school, he is, or may be, exposed to educative influences of various kinds.[29]
But the broad fact remains that the studies of the youthful graduate, whether in school classroom
or college lecture-room, have been wholly unformative and therefore wholly uneducative.

But let us consider the education given in our Public Schools and Universities, at what is
presumably the highest of all its levels. Let us see what is done for the boys who have sufficient
ability to win Scholarships and read for Honours at Oxford and Cambridge. It is to the supposed
interests of these brighter boys that the vital interests of their duller schoolfellows are
perforce sacrificed. Are the results worth the sacrifice? The brighter boys fall into two main
groups,--those who have a turn for the "Humanities," and those who have a turn for Mathematics
and Science. Where the "Humanities" are effectively taught,--where, for example, the scholar
is allowed to pass through the portals of Latin and Greek grammar and composition into the
wonder-world that lies beyond them,--the communicative instinct receives a valuable training.
It is, unfortunately, quite possible for a boy, or even for a man, to be what is called a "good
scholar," and yet to take no interest whatever in the history or literature of Greece and Rome;
and the examination system undoubtedly tends to foster this bastard type of humanism. But when,
as a result of his school and University training, a scholar has passed the linguistic portals
and found pleasure in the worlds beyond, we may say of him that his education has fostered
the growth of one of his expansive instincts,--perhaps the most important of all, but still
only one. When Science is effectively taught, the growth of the inquisitive instinct is similarly
fostered; but the inquisitive instinct, though of great value, when trained in conjunction
with other instincts, has but little value as a "formative" when trained by itself. From this
point of view it compares unfavourably with the communicative instinct, being as much less
formative than the latter, as the mysteries of the material world are less significant and
less able to inspire and vitalise their interpreter than the mysteries of human life; and a
purely (or mainly) scientific training is therefore worth far less as an instrument of education
than a purely (or mainly) humanistic training.

But why should the boys at our Great Public Schools and the young men at our Universities have
to choose between a scientific and a humanistic training? Why should these ancient and famous
institutions be content to train one only of the six expansive instincts instead of at least
two? Here, as elsewhere, the scholarship system blocks the way. Some scholarships are given
for Classics, others for History, others for Mathematics, others for Natural Science. Not a
single scholarship is given, at either University, for general capacity, as measured by the
results of a many-sided examination. Why should this be? The answer is that under any system
of formal examination many-sidedness in education necessarily means smattering; and that against
smattering the Universities have, very properly, set their faces. But, after all, there is
no necessary connection between many-sidedness and smattering. In Utopia, where the concentric
rings of growth are formed by the gradual evolution of an inner life, whatever feeds that inner
life is a contribution, however humble, to the growth of the whole tree; and many-sidedness,
far from being a defect, is one of the first conditions of success in education. The cells are quite light and fresh air through windows are high
iron and very solid. Each detainee has, in addition to the materials and work tools, his bed, a chair
and some essential furniture that let you eat, sleep, etc.., in absolute isolation. Each cell
door has practiced a small and simple apparatus can monitor the prisoner without his noticing
it. The director and three employees Junior sufficient to timely and rigorous administration
of the establishment. Detainees engaged in the manufacture of shoes, mats and other simple objects
of popular consumption, and the products are intended to cover the costs of establishing and forming
a fund economies of each prisoner, according to the value of their work. The preaching and
religious education given to prisoners is austere, intelligent and affable.

If the confinement in the dungeon, the temporary deprivation of food, the walk in the courtyards,
etc. coercision are means of repression or additional inmate also has powerful incentives to meditate
on their crimes, repent and moralize. In case of good behavior, giving evidence of repentance,
you get more participation in the fruits of their labor, work permit accompanied by one or two more,
but always in silence, and a reduction of penalty that can half of their legal duration. Noticing
that the relapses are rare among men adults, and somewhat common among women and pubescent or prepubescent
when they get no occupation safe to leave the prison. For the rest, in establishing the rule of order,
silence, neatness and economy. The director and one of the guards I expressed the conviction depth
of the effectiveness of the system in every way, although recognized, as others the need for
the cellular system has its complement in a social institution that allows provide instruction
and work for some time the prisoner released, in order that, having being smooth the transition from
confinement and forced labor, freedom to work free, but insecure, avert the dangers of recidivism.
There will come a day, no doubt, that the civilized societies recognize that the correction of
the guilty fruitful and the supreme duty of justice require the close correlation of three institutions:
the place of punishment, school, and the shop or something similar, and that social power does
not have full authority to punish condition but to instruct and moralize the culprit, and
open once repented, Via all rehabilitation infinite: the work and personal independence.

The Prison House has forms and under different conditions, however
the system community.

The building has the outward form of half wagon wheel spokes and three horizontal. In the center
is the facade, which gives onto a three-story lobby to the corresponding the interior. The inner
and lower lobby is semicircular, and parallel to the large semicircle described by two equally
high embankments parallel to each other than separated by an alley, contain all the strength. The center to
the circumference as radios extend two buildings equal and oblong and other intermediate building
crowned by a dome, separated by four walls that enclose patios. All these and the walls are covered
contour the exterior looks and dominated by the dome and some windows to carry out surveillance.
The office of the director and his assistant is inside the peristyle, and in the center the
start of the radios are the gaps that allow inmates to observe and report Through orders the walls
without being seen. Of the three floors of these radios the lower contains the workshops, and
two bedroom upper cells of the prisoners, while in the central part are premises for the service
employees. Under the study, the level of the courts, are the parlor for visits to prisoners,
office and other pieces of furniture.

The entire building, it seems complicated, but actually very simple, cost only 30.000 weight
and only requires an annual expenditure of 5.000, at most, a deficit
the product leaves over expenditure, the work of prisoners.

Can hold 56 inmates, judging by the number of cells, but never has been filled and usually has
only about 46. This number he had when I visited the prison, 12 were repeat offenders, only
7 belonged to canton of Geneva (where there is freedom, instruction and industrial activity)
and most Savoyards was composed of prisoners, belonging to a population too poor, ignorant,
without industry, commerce and communications, sandwiched between the Alps and customs lines.
The large number of prisoners represented the crimes of theft and robbery crimes in the generality
of cases, do not indicate perversion, but misery and lack of education and work. The number of Protestant
and Roman Catholic Canton balances in prison, although in the whole vast majority of Catholics
there.

Each inmate sleeps in his cell in complete isolation. The cells are small but sufficient very clean
and airy, lit by natural light and provided with the modest furniture
necessary.

Prisoners work and take food in common silent absolute and divided into sections according to
their criminality. Eat three meals per day, abundant, easy and healthy, and after each shift to go
out for half an hour outdoors one of the patios. Only one case of evasion has happened so far,
and that negligence a watchman. Inmate never lost any reason not attack the guards. The total confinement
without work or light, and temporary food deprivation or bed to sleep on, are the means of
coercion or repression. The work consists of making prisoners shoes and mats or a pillar grains.
Each of the joint workshops is monitored internally by a guard to win, besides the food and
accommodation, three francs a day. The director, an assistant or secretary, and these guards are
the only active employees of the establishment, and serve him very well. Chaplains attend
Sunday church services to make and moral, without prejudice to its competition accidental.

When an inmate is worthy of consideration, is allowed to receive from time to short time visit some debt.
This takes place in a booth at a gate through fine wire, which allows conversation and exchange
of glances, under the supervision of guard present, but that prevents
all contact and communication cards, money, weapons.

Books that take place on record carefully all the facts of the domestic economy and statistical
observations on the morality of prisoners. According to these documents, if the conduct of a defendant
is blameless get a less rigorous treatment and a decrease sentencing, which reaches halfway.
These discounts are common. On the product side work, the system is analogous to the House of
Detention, but part is intended to help, if they are poor, to the children, parents, or spouse
of the inmate. The prison serves only for those convicted for crimes or serious offenses, to
more than one year of confinement cell. The maximum of the duration is 20 years, applied only
in cases of repeated crimes very serious.

The thing that caught my attention in the prison was the chapel, place of extreme simplicity,
unadorned and provided no seats in the amphitheater. There the prisoners are divided into sections
according to their criminality. At the bottom, next to the modest chair of the chaplain is
a small altar reduced to one Christ, the image of the Virgin and
the vessels and objects necessary for the Roman worship.

This altar is provided with a thick, dark curtains. When the prisoners Roman Catholics are in the
chapel, the altar is bare and does the priest concerned. When his turn assist the Protestants,
the altar is covered and is not in sight but Bible on the table. Thus, the same pulpit and serve
the local priest and pastor. Jamas in my life had found a social spectacle as sublime as that
of the humble chapel equally dedicated to the service of two religious communions bloodied land their
struggles ungodly. What profound teaching of spiritualism in religion, of noble simplicity in worship,
brotherhood and tolerance, universality in the religious idea, - without stopping lie in the
differences in symbols and forms, - of true Christianity, finally! Education hidden in the
depths of a prison, - symbol of awareness equal to duty and justice - to instill the culprit
the notion of brotherhood in God and man, the equal right of all, whose violation is precisely
what is called a fault, offense ú crime!

By leaving to Geneva, had not only an impression of deep respect for this small state of philosophers,
artists and free and industrious, but also a kind of consolation and confidence in the future
of humanity. What's great examples and inspirations soaring European civilization owes to this
tiny village, used to manufacture watches and exercising free inquiry, his genius seems to have
severe regularity timer independent expansion and organizations free!

There were born to glory letters and sciences of every kind, patient and bold naturalistic Saussure
and Candolle, as Burlamaqui jurists, historians such as Sismondi and Mallet, economists and
John B. Say and Sismondi himself, men of state as Necker, writers such as Madame Necker, Töpffer
and Cherbuliez; distinguished artists, thinkers, philosophers and the immortal Rousseau!

A huge open carriage, divided into three compartments and containing about 23 people, apart
from the luggage, was to guide us along the Arve Valley to Chamonix, at the foot of colossal
group of mountains in the center of which holds the impressive dome of Mont Blanc. The English,
as in all places, vehicles and excursion lines, were in the majority, mainly represented by
a half-dozen strong young ladies, blonde, pink and whimsically dressed.

Sovereign always annoyed with the thick fog, even life and isolation its opulent geographic island,
English is eminently cosmopolitan, for hygienic reasons by genius and tradition, and out of
curiosity, frequently childish. Even in the last corner of the world and the highest peaks is
found, - imperious, demanding and intractable, when no need of others, laconic, cold, full of walking
sticks, umbrellas and a thousand appliances, impassive when the others are moved, shaved and
perfumed in order even at the bottom of the cliffs and refrigerators,
and wearing his singular dress in one color and one court, which by
dint from uniform touch of extravagance.

Fine, gentlemanly, hospitable and fulfilled in their Island (at home), English is hard in
a foreign country, sometimes half-savage, because the pride of race and nationality gives them
the knowledge that bears his home everywhere them, ie individual right, your name and your bag.
Hence the total lack elasticity and tolerance to accommodate in a foreign country to use of
other peoples and to the needs of the circumstances. It is certainly curious that phenomenon in
processing morality that takes place in English, travelers so attached to the idea of ​​the homeland,
and at the same time so devoted to his travels away from the soil.

The French, on the contrary, a man of spirit rather than of conviction, of indefinite expansion
habits rather than socialist par excellence, leaving the country across the border in France,
find an adoptive, temporary and ad hoc wherever it presents a means of socializing, a circle of
ideas. Thus, with admirable ease assimilates all conditions of life, and agree with the best mood
all possible situations, both in the Fields Elysees of Paris in the bottom of a South American
jungle, or in a desert of Africa. Is why, when traveling in Europe between the English and
French, is always at the first silent, elusive, retreating into his
personality rigorous, while others enter course in the wide lane and
multiple conversation unencumbered, easily reaching to the gaiety.

These observations, which have nothing personal to be new or original HOWEVER, and have confirmed all my
trips, I came at once to mind as follow diligence in Geneva, the road to Chamonix. The conversation
was so animated between us and two or three Frenchmen and a few francs in the same race as
notable silence contemplation of the English. Llamónos attention particularly a Protestant
minister or pastor the canton of Vaud, traveling very modestly with his daughter - a smart
and funny lady sixteen years, - with the intention of making fruitful hikes. He was a man of manners
fine, full of modesty and distinction in behavior, simple, tolerant and philosopher, strongly soaked
in the feeling of brotherhood and Christian love, friend of good
conversation and discussion, attentive observer enthusiastically by
all the natural beauty of instruction general and particularly addicted
to solid geology, physics, botany and history natural.

His daughter, as educated as nice, so innocent and intelligent, with him always in their wanderings.
On foot, armed with sticks and a modest outfit travel had traveled together the most interesting
regions in central Switzerland, scaled the heights Jura, Bernese Oberland, refrigerators, etc., collecting
curious plants and making thoughtful observations. They had the intention to go in the refrigerator
side of Mont Blanc and visit all the natural sights of Chamonix. Rarely have I traveled with a companion
as instructive vaudense as this worthy pastor, I found one of the most beautiful types of modern priesthood.

Twelve
hours of care and drive mortals must endure to make the journey of 90 miles to Chamonix, in thick
clouds of dust and under the rays of a sun that seemed tropical. Otherwise no one can admire the
beauty of the many varied landscapes offer the track. She is of little interest to Bonneville, which
was capital of the former province of Faucigny, with 1.500 inhabitants. It is there, near the
mountains of mole and going through a beautiful Arve Bridge to trace the left bank to Cluses,
the traveler begins to contemplate about the beauties of the Alps. The river runs along the
bottom of a deep basin formed buttressed by high mountains or rough seams on a rocky bed, leading
riots in a thick wave solution of granitic sand and limestone that gives its ink Cinderella.
 The thin end of the wedge is even now
being driven into the close-grained mass of tradition and routine; and each successive blow
that is struck by a teacher of intelligence and initiative will widen the incipient cleft.

The dream, then, of leading the children of England--the children of the "masses" as well as
of the "classes"--into the path of self-realisation, is not so widely impracticable as to convict
the dreamer of insanity. And if we could realise the dream, if we could go but a little way
towards realising it, how immense would be the gain to our country! If the average level of
mental development in England were as high as it is in Utopia, to what height would not the
men and women of exceptional ability be able to rise? The mountain peaks that spring from an
upland plateau soar higher towards the sky than the peaks, of the same apparent height, that
spring from a low-lying plain. And "the great mountains lift the lowlands on to their sides."

But this is not the only reason why the gospel of self-realisation should be preached in all
parts of the land. There is another reason which is becoming more and more urgent. If the Utopian
scheme of education were widely adopted, an antidote would be found to a grave and growing
evil which is beginning to imperil the mental health of every civilised community, and of this
more than any other. The more civilised (in the Western sense of the word) a country becomes,
the less educative does life--the rough-and-tumble life of the work-a-day world--tend to become.
In a thoroughly "civilised" country, where the material conditions of life are highly organised,
and where industry is highly specialised, so much is done for the individual by those who organise
his life and labour, that it ceases to be necessary for him, except within narrow limits, to
shift for himself. In a less civilised community men have to use their wits as well as their
hands at every turn; and resourcefulness and versatility are therefore in constant demand.
The industrial life of a Russian peasant, who is of necessity a Jack-of-many-trades, is incomparably
more educative than that of the Lancashire cotton operative, most of whose thinking and much
of whose operating may be said to be done for him by the complicated machinery which he controls;
who does, indeed, learn to do one thing surpassingly well, but in doing that one thing becomes,
as he progresses, more and more automatic, so that the highest praise we can give him is to
say that he does his work with the sureness and accuracy of a machine. It follows that the
more civilised a country becomes, the more important is the part that the elementary school
plays in the life of the nation,--and that not merely because the ability to read, write, and
cipher is, in the conditions which modern civilisation imposes, almost as much a "necessary
of life" as the ability to walk or talk, but also and more especially because it devolves upon
the school to do for the citizen in his childhood what life will not do for him in his manhood,
or will do for him but in scant measure, to stimulate his vital powers into healthful activity,
to foster the growth of his soul. And the more the people in a civilised country are withdrawn
from the soil and herded into mines and mills and offices, the more imperative is it that the
school should quicken rather than deaden the child's innate faculties, should bring sunshine
rather than frost into his adolescent life. In such a country as ours the responsibilities
of the teacher are only equalled by his opportunities; for the child is in his hands during
the most impressionable years of life; and those years will have been wasted, and worse than
wasted, unless they have fitted the child to face the world with resourcefulness, intelligence,
and vital energy, ready to wrest from his environment, by enlarging and otherwise transforming
it, those educative influences which are still to be had for the seeking, but are no longer
automatically supplied.

The Moral Aspect of Self-Realisation.

If Man, if each man in turn, is born good, the process of growth, or self-realisation, which
is presumably taking him towards the perfection of which his nature admits, must needs make
him continuously better. In other words, growth, provided that it is healthy, harmonious, and
many-sided, provided that it is growth of the whole being, is in itself and of inner necessity
the most moralising of all processes. Nay, it is the only moralising process, for in no other
way can what is naturally good be transformed into what is ideally best.

This argument, apart from its being open to the possible objection that it plays on the meaning
of the word "good," is perhaps too conclusive to be really convincing. I will therefore try
to make my way to its conclusion by another line of thought.

The desire to grow, to advance towards maturity, to realise his true self--the self that is
his in embryo from the very beginning--is strong in every living thing, and is therefore strong
in every child of man. But the desire, which necessarily takes its share in the general process
of growth, must needs pass through many stages on its way to its own highest form. In infancy,
it is a desire for physical life, for the preservation and expansion of the physical self;
and in this stage it is, as I have already pointed out, uncompromisingly selfish. The new-born
baby is the incarnation of selfishness; and it is quite right that he should be so. It is his
way of trying to realise himself. As the child grows older, the desire to grow becomes a desire
for self-aggrandisement,--a desire to shine in various ways, to surpass others, to be admired,
to be praised; and though in this stage it may give rise to much vanity and selfishness, still,
so long as it has vigorous growth behind it and is in its essence a desire for further growth,
it is in the main a healthy tendency, and to call it sinful or vicious would be a misuse of words.

But when, in the course of time, the average, ordinary, surface self--the self with which we
are all only too familiar--has been fully evolved and firmly established, the day may come
when, owing to various adverse conditions, the growth of the soul will be arrested, and the
ordinary self will come to be regarded as the true self, as the self which the man may henceforth
accept and rest in, as the self in virtue of which he is what he is. Should the desire for
self-aggrandisement survive that day, the door would be thrown open to selfishness of a malignant
type and to general demoralisation. And this is what would assuredly come to pass. In the first
place, the desire for self-aggrandisement, which always has the push of Nature's expansive
forces behind it, would certainly survive that ill-omened day. Indeed, it were well that it
should do so; for "while there is life, there is hope," and when the soul is ceasing to grow,
it is through the desire for self-aggrandisement that Nature makes her last effort to keep
it alive, by compelling it to energise on one or two at least of the many sides of its being.
In the second place, the desire would gradually cease to be resolvable into the desire for
continued growth, and would gradually transform itself into the desire to glorify and make
much of the ordinary self, to minister to its selfish demands, to give it possessions, riches,
honour, power, social rank, and whatever else might serve to feed its self-esteem, and make
it think well of itself because it was well thought of by "the world." And in the third place,
in its effort to glorify and make much of the ordinary self, the desire would, without a moment's
compunction, see other persons pushed to the wall, trampled under foot, slighted and humiliated,
robbed of what they valued most, outraged and wounded in their tenderest feelings. It is my
firm conviction that at the present day three-fourths of the moral evil in the world, or at
any rate in the Western world, are the direct or indirect outcome of egoism,--egoism which,
as a rule, is mean, petty, and small-minded, but is often cruel and ruthless, and can on occasion
become heroic and even titanic in its capacity for evil and in the havoc that it works,--egoism
which in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred is generated by the desire for self-aggrandisement
having outlived its better self, the desire to grow.

If arrested growth is the chief source of malignant egoism, there is an obvious remedy for
the deadly malady. The egoist must re-enter the path of self-realisation. His great enemy is
his lower self;[34] and the surest way to conquer this enemy is to outgrow it, to leave it
far behind. When the path of self-realisation has been re-entered, when the soul has resumed
the interrupted process of its growth, the desire for self-aggrandisement will spontaneously
transform itself, first into the desire for further growth, and then into the desire for outgrowth
or escape from self, and will cease to minister to the selfish demands of the lower self; and
as the lower self is all the while being gradually left behind by the growing soul, and is
therefore ceasing to assert itself, and ceasing to clamour, like a spoilt child, for this thing
and for that,--it will not be long before the antidote to the poison of egoism will have taken
due effect, and the health of the soul will have been restored.

But let me say again--for I can scarcely say it too often--that the growth which emancipates
from self is many-sided growth, the growth, not of any one faculty, or group of faculties,
but of the soul as such. Were it not so, the life of self-realisation might easily become a
life of glorified and therefore intensified selfishness. It is quite possible, as we know from
experience, for a high degree of "culture" to co-exist with a high degree of egoism. It is
possible, for example, for the æsthetic instincts, when not kept aglow by the sympathetic,
or hardened with an alloy of the scientific, to evolve a peculiar form of selfishness which
leads at last to looseness of life and general demoralisation. And it is possible for the scientific
instincts, when developed at the expense of the æsthetic and the sympathetic, to evolve a hard,
unemotional type of character which is self-centred and selfish owing to its positiveness and
lack of imagination. But these are instances of inharmonious growth. When growth is harmonious
and many-sided, it leads of necessity to out-growth, to escape from self. For the expansive
instincts are so many ways of escape from self which Nature opens up to the soul;--the sympathetic
instincts, a way of escape into the boundless æther of love; the æsthetic instincts, a way
of escape into the wonder-world of beauty; the scientific instincts, a way of escape into the
world of mysteries which is lighted by the "high white star of truth." It is only when one
of the expansive instincts is allowed to aggrandise itself at the expense of the others, that
the consequent outgrowth of selfishness in what I may call the internal economy of one's nature
begins to reflect itself in a general selfishness of character. An instinct may readily become
egoistic in its effort to affirm or over-affirm itself, to grasp at its share or more than
its share of the child's rising life: and if it does, it may gradually suck down into the vortex
of its egoism the whole character of the child as he ripens into the man. But growth, as such,
is anti-egoistic just because it is growth, because it is a movement towards a larger, fuller,
and freer life: and it is restricted, even more than one-sided growth,--it is the apathy, the
helplessness, the deadness of soul that overtakes, first the child and then the man, when his
expansive instincts are systematically starved and thwarted,--which is the chief cause of his
incarceration in his petty self.

If three-fourths of the moral evil in the world are due to malignant egoism, the source of
the remaining fourth is, in a word, sensuality. By sensuality I mean the undue or perverted
development of the desires and passions of the animal self,--the desire for food and drink,
the sexual desires, the desire for physical or semi-physical excitement, the animal passion
of anger, and the rest. As an enemy of the soul, sensuality is less dangerous, because more
open and less insidious, than egoism. The egoist, who mistakes his ordinary for his real self,
may well lead a life of systematic selfishness without in the least realising that he is living
amiss. But the animal self is never mistaken for the real self; and the sensualist always has
an uneasy feeling in the back of his mind that, in indulging his animal desires and passions
to excess, he is doing wrong. This feeling may, indeed, die out when he "grows hard" in his
"viciousness"; but in the earlier stages of the sensual life it is sure to "give pause"; and
there are, I think, few persons who do not feel that the sensual desires and passions are so
remote from the headquarters of human life, that in yielding to them beyond due measure they
are acting unworthily of their higher selves. At any rate we may regard the temptations to
sensual indulgence that lie in our path as evil influences which are assailing us from without
rather than from within; and we may therefore liken them to the blight, rust, mites, mildew,
and other pests that assail hops, fruit, wheat, and other growing plants.

And, like the pests that assail growing plants, the sensual pests that war against the soul
must be beaten off by vigorous and continuous growth. No other prophylactic is so sure or so
effective as this. When I was asked whether the Utopian education was useful or not, I adduced,
as an instance of its usefulness, its power of protecting the young from the allurements of
a pernicious literature, to which the victims of the conventional type of education, with their
lowered vitality and their lack of interest in life, too readily succumb. This is a typical
example of the way in which the rising sap of life strengthens the soul to resist the temptations
to undue sensual indulgence by which it is always liable to be assailed. The victim of a repressive,
growth-arresting type of education, having few if any interests in life, not infrequently takes
to the meretricious excitements of sensuality in order to relieve the intolerable monotony
of his days. But the training which makes for many-sided growth, by filling the life of the
"adolescent" with many and various interests, removes temptations of this particular type from
his path. And it does more for him than this. It generates in him a state of health and well-being,
in which the very vigour and elasticity of his spiritual fibre automatically shields him from
temptation by refusing to allow the germs of moral disease to effect a lodgment in his soul.
It would be well if our moralists could realise that the chief causes of weakness in the presence
of sensual temptation are, on the one hand, boredom and ennui, and on the other hand flabbiness
and degeneracy of spiritual fibre, and that the remedy for both these defects is to give the
young the type of education which will foster rather than hinder growth.

We are now in a position to estimate the respective values, as moralising influences, of the
path of self-realisation and the path that leads to "results." Whatever tends to arrest growth
tends also and in an equal degree to demoralise Man's life; for, on the one hand, by transforming
the healthy desire for continued growth into the unhealthy desire for mere self-aggrandisement,
it generates malignant egoism, with its endless train of attendant evils; and, on the other
hand, by depressing the vitality of the soul and so weakening its powers of resistance, it
exposes it to the attacks of those powers and desires which we speak of in the aggregate as
sensuality. If this is so, the inference is irresistible that the externalism of "civilised"
life, with the repressive and devitalising system of education which it necessitates, is responsible
for the greater part of the immorality--I am using the word in its widest sense--of the present
age. Contrariwise, whatever tends to foster growth tends also, and in an equal degree, to moralise
Man's life; for, on the one hand, by transforming the desire for self-aggrandisement into the
desire, first for continued growth and then for out-growth, it gives the soul strength to eliminate
the poison of egoism from its system; and, on the other hand, by vitalising the soul and so
strengthening its powers of resistance, it enables it to beat off the attacks of those enemies
of its well-being which serve under the banner of sensuality. If this is so, the inference
is irresistible that self-realisation is the only effective remedy for the immorality of the
present age.

The comparison between the two schemes of life may be carried a stage further. If egoism and
sensuality are the two primary vices, the secondary vices will be the various ways and means
by which egoism and sensuality try to compass their respective ends. Let us select for consideration
one group of these vices,--the important group which fall under the general head of untruthfulness.
Insincerity, disingenuousness, shiftiness, trickery, duplicity, chicanery, evasion, intrigue,
suppressio veri, suggestio falsi, fraud, mendacity, treachery, hypocrisy, cant,--their name
is Legion. That externalism, whether in school or out of school, is the foster-mother of the
whole brood, is almost too obvious to need demonstration. In school the child lives in an atmosphere
of unreality and make-believe. The demand for mechanical obedience which is always pressing
upon him is a demand that he shall be untrue to himself. Sincerity of expression, which is
the fountain-head of all truthfulness, is not merely slighted by his teacher, but is systematically
proscribed. He is always (under compulsion) pretending to be what he is not,--to know what
he does not know, to see what he does not see, to think what he does not think, to believe
what he does not believe. And he lives, from hour to hour, under the dark shadow of severity
and distrust,--severity which is too often answered by servility, and distrust which is too
often answered by deceit. When he goes out into the world, he finds that though there are many
sins for which there is forgiveness, there is one for which there is no forgiveness,--the sin
of being found out; and he orders his life accordingly. He finds that he must give account
of himself to public opinion, which necessarily judges according to the appearance of things,
and is only too ready to be hoodwinked and gulled. He finds that to "succeed" is to achieve
certain outward and visible results,--results which are out of relation to the vraie vérité
of things, which are in no way symbolical of merit, and for the winning of which any means
may be resorted to provided that scandals are avoided and the letter of the law is obeyed.
He finds that the system of advertising which plays so large a part in modern life, and without
which it is so hard to "succeed," is in the main a system of organised mendacity. Finally,
and above all, he finds that the examination system, with its implicit demands for trickery
and shiftiness, and its almost open invitation to cram and cheat, is not confined to the school
but has its equivalent in "the world," and is in fact the basis of civilisation as well as
of education in the West.

This is the provision that externalism makes for the practical inculcation of truthfulness,--a
virtue which its religion and its ethics profess to honour above all others. The life of self-realisation,
on the other hand, is a life of genuine self-expression; and a life of genuine self-expression
is obviously a life of fearless sincerity. In such a life there is no place for untruthfulness
or any member of its impish brood. The one concern of the child, as of the man, is to be loyal
to intrinsic reality, to be true to his true self. His standard is always inward, not outward.
He knows that he is what he is, not what he is reputed to be. Quantum unusquisque est in oculis
Tuis, tantum est et non amplius.

Here, then, as elsewhere, we see that the difference between the morality of externalism and
the morality of self-realisation is a difference, not of degree but of direct antagonism,--the
difference between a poison and its antidote, between the cause of a malady and the cure.

While the path of self-realisation is emancipating us from egoism and sensuality, in what general
direction is it leading us? Is its ethical ideal positive or merely negative? And if it is
positive, what is its character, and how is it to be realised? The answer to this question
will be given in the remaining sections.

The Social Aspect of Self-realisation.

He must either be richly endowed with "the good things of life" or be of an exceptionally optimistic
disposition, who can view the existing social order with complete satisfaction. Even among
those who are richly endowed with "the good things of life" there must be many who realise
that the "Have-nots" have some cause for complaint. And even among those who are of an exceptionally
optimistic disposition there must be some who realise that the grounds of their optimism are
personal to themselves, and that they cannot expect many others to share their satisfaction
with things as they are.

The phrase "the good things of life" is significant, and explains much. It means that an outward
standard of reality has fully established itself in the community, that money and the possessions
of various kinds which money can buy are regarded as the good things of life,--things which
are intrinsically good, and therefore legitimate ends of Man's ambition and endeavour, things
to pursue which is to fulfil one's destiny and to win which is to achieve salvation. It means,
in other words, that the life of the community is a scramble for material possessions and outward
and visible "results"--a scramble which on its lowest level becomes a struggle for bare existence,
and on the next level a struggle for the "necessaries of life"--and that this legalised scramble
is the basis of the whole social order. In such a scramble the great prizes are necessarily
few, and the number of complete failures is always considerable; for the wealthier a country,
the higher is its standard of comfort, so that the proportion of failures--the percentage of
men who are submerged and outcast, who are in want and misery--is at least as great in the
wealthiest as in the poorest community, while the extremes of wealth and poverty are as a rule
greatest where the pursuit of riches is carried on with the keenest vigour and the most complete
success.

There are many persons, rich as well as poor, who, viewing the legalised scramble from an entirely
impersonal standpoint, are filled with disgust and dismay, and who dream of making an end of
it, by substituting what they call collectivism for the individualism which they regard as
the source of all our troubles. These persons are known as Socialists. Their ruling idea is
that the "State" should become the sole owner of property, and that this radical change should
be effected by a series of legislative measures. With their social ideal, regarded as an ideal,
one has of course the deepest sympathy. Their motto is, I believe, "Each for all, and all for
each"; and if this ideal could be realised, the social millennium would indeed have begun.
But in trying to compass their ends by legislation, before the standard of reality has been
changed, they are making a disastrous mistake. For, to go no further, our schools are hotbeds
of individualism, the spirit of "competitive selfishness" being actively and systematically
fostered in all of them, with a few exceptions; and so long as this is so, so long as our highly
individualised society is recruited, year by year, by a large contingent of individualists
of all ranks, drawn from schools of all grades, for so long will the Socialistic ideal remain
an impracticable dream. An impracticable and a mischievous dream; for in the attempt to realise
it, the community will almost inevitably be brought to the verge of civil war. When the seeds
of socialistic legislation, or even of socialistic agitation, are sown in a soil which is highly
charged with the poison of individualism, the resulting crop will be class hatred and social
strife.

No, we must change our standard of reality before we can hope to reform society. Where the
outward standard prevails, where material possessions are regarded as "the good things of life,"
the basis of society must needs be competitive rather than communal, for there will never be
enough of those "good things" to satisfy the desires of all the members of any community. And
even if the socialistic dream of state-ownership could be universally realised, the change--so
long as the outward standard of reality prevailed--would not necessarily be for the better,
and might well be for the worse. Competition for "the good things of life" would probably go
on as fiercely as ever; but it would be a scramble among nations rather than individuals, and
it might conceivably take the form of open warfare waged on a titanic scale.[35] Even now there
are indications that such a struggle, or series of struggles, if not actually approaching,
is at any rate not beyond the bounds of possibility. And on the way to the realisation of the
collectivist ideal, we should probably have in each community a similar struggle for wealth
and power among political parties,--a struggle which would generate many social evils, of which
civil war might not be the most malignant.

But if we are to change our standard of reality we must change it, first and foremost, in the
school. The way to do this is quite simple. We need not give lessons on altruism. We need not
teach or preach a new philosophy of life. All that we need do is to foster the growth of the
child's soul. When the growth of the soul is healthy and harmonious, the cultivation of all
the expansive instincts having been fully provided for, the communal instinct will evolve itself
in its own season; and when the communal instinct has been fully evolved, the social order
will begin to reform itself. This is what has happened in Utopia. There, where competition
is unknown, where prizes are undreamed of, where the growth of the child's natural faculties,
and the consequent well-being of his soul, is "its own exceeding great reward," the communal
instinct has grown with the growth of the child's whole nature, and has generated an ideal
social life.

At the end of the last section I asked myself what was the ethical ideal of the life of self-realisation,--the
positive ideal as distinguished from the more negative ideal of emancipating from egoism and
sensuality. I will now try to answer this question. Emancipation from egoism and sensuality
is effected by the outgrowth of a larger and truer self. This larger and truer self, as it
unfolds itself, directs our eyes towards the ideal self--the goal of the whole process of growth--which
is to the ordinary self what the full-grown tree, embodying in itself the perfection of oakhood,
is to the sapling oak, or what the ripe peach, embodying in itself the perfection of peachhood,
is to the green unripened fruit. The ideal self is, in brief, perfect Manhood. What perfect
Manhood may be, we need not pause to inquire. Whatever it may be, it is the true self of each
of us. It follows that the nearer each of us gets to it, the nearer he is to the true self
of each of his fellow-men; that the more closely he is able to identify himself with it, the
more closely he is able to identify himself with each of his fellow-men; that in realising
it, he is realising, he is entering into, he is becoming one with, the real life of each of
his fellow-men. And not of each of his fellow-men only. He is also entering into the life of
the whole community of men--(for it is the presence of the ideal self in each of us which makes
communal life possible)--and, through this, of each of the lesser communities to which he may
happen to belong. In other words, he is losing himself in the lives of others, and is finding
his well-being, and therefore his happiness, in doing so. But self-loss, with joy in the loss
of self, is, in a word, love.

The path of self-realisation is, then, in its higher stages, a life of love. He who walks in
that path must needs lead a life of love. He will love and serve his fellow-men, both as individuals
and as members of this or that community, not because he is consciously trying to live up to
a high ideal, but because he has reached a stage in his development beyond which he cannot
develop himself except by leading a life of love, because the path of self-realisation has
led him into the sunshine of love, and if he will not henceforth walk in that sunshine he will
cease to follow his path. He has indeed long walked in the foreglow of the sunshine of love.
The dawn of the orb of love is heralded by a gradual twilight, which lights the path of self-realisation,
even in its earlier stages. In Utopia the joy on the faces of the children is the joy of goodwill
not less than of well-being. Or rather it is the joy of goodwill because it is the joy of well-being,
because well-being would not be well-being if it did not ceaselessly generate goodwill.

That love is "the fulfilling of the law," and therefore the keystone of every sound system
of ethics, is a truth on which I need scarcely insist. The final proof that the ethics of self-realisation
are sound to the core lies in the fact that the path of self-realisation, besides emancipating
from egoism and sensuality, leads all who walk in it, first into the foreglow and then into
the sunshine of love. But it is with the social rather than the ethical aspect of self-realisation
that I am now concerned. And the social aspect of the fact which has just been stated is obviously
of vital importance. Love, which is commensurate with life, has innumerable phases. One of
these is what I have called the communal instinct,--the sense of belonging to a community,
of being a vital part of it, of sharing in its life, of being what one is (in part at least)
because one shares in its life. If Socialism is to realise its noble dream, this instinct,
strongly developed and directed towards the well-being of the whole social order, must become
part of the normal equipment of every citizen. And if this is to come to pass, self-realisation
must be made the basis of education in all our schools. What it has done for the children of
Utopia, in the way of developing their communal instinct and making their school an ideal community,
it is capable of doing for every school in England,--I might almost say for every school on
the face of the earth.

There are faddists who advocate the teaching of patriotism in our elementary schools. There
are Local Education Committees which insist on citizenship being taught in the schools under
their control. By teaching patriotism, and citizenship is meant treating them as "subjects,"
finding places for them on the "time-table," and giving formal lessons on them. Where this
is done, the time of the teachers and the children is wasted. The teaching of patriotism and
citizenship, if it is to produce any effect, must be entirely informal and indirect. Let the
child be so educated that he will develop himself freely on all the sides of his being, and
his communal instinct will, as I have said, evolve itself in its own season. Until it has evolved
itself, patriotism and citizenship will be mere names to him, and what he is taught about them
will make no impression on him. When it has evolved itself, he will be a patriot and a good
citizen in posse, and will be ready on occasion to prove his patriotism and his good citizenship
by his deeds, or, better still, by his life.[36]

While the communal instinct is evolving itself, first in the school and then in the community
at large, the standard of reality will, by a parallel or perhaps identical process, be transforming
itself in all the grades of society. The inward will be taking the place of the outward standard;
and men will be learning to form a different conception of "the good things of life" from that
which now dominates our social life. The Socialist will then have his opportunity. That any
member of the community should be in physical want or irremediable misery, will begin to be
felt, partly as a personal grief, partly as a reflection on himself, by each member of the
community in turn; and steps will begin to be taken--what steps I cannot pretend to forecast--to
make physical want and irremediable misery impossible. Meanwhile, with the gradual substitution
of the inward for the outward standard of reality, the mad scramble for wealth and possessions
and distinctions will gradually cease, the conception of what constitutes "comfort" and of
what are the real "necessaries of life" will be correspondingly changed, and men will begin
to realise that of the genuine "good things of life"--the good things which the children of
Utopia carry with them into the world, and which make them exceedingly rich in spite of their
apparent poverty--there are enough and more than enough "to go round." I will, therefore, breaks the narrative with explanations and comments interspersed
that he has done. Not otherwise be understood.

The story is relatively modern, for, as my friend, have yet to discover legends and stories in
Proto-Iberian, oldest and most venerable Egyptian poem Pentaur about a feat or Rans Sesostris
II, and that the poems found by our known Mr. Layard diplomat in the library of Ashurbanipal in
Nineveh archaic poems and eight centuries BC, and translated most of the sacred language of the
Akkadians, then so dead like Latin with us now.

And this should not wonder, because according Roisel at The Atlantis, all culture comes from
these, before been in Chaldea, Assyria, in Egypt or at any point of the East.

It is unfortunate that we still have no documents of the Golden Age or Golden Age of Atlantic Parisian
literature of place some eight thousand years, or the emanation of that bética culture, implemented
by the banks of the Guadalquivir turdetanos.

The document found, deciphered, explained and commented by Don Juan
Fresco is relatively time fresh, as it were of yesterday morning.

Iberian and indigenous culture had declined and Spain were full of
even Phoenician and Greek colonies.

Those had already founded Zazinto Sagunto, and for over a century they founded the Tyre to
Malaga, Abdera, Hispalis and Gades. It was for the years 1000, BC vulgar, on more or less.

II

Vescio
was an important city of the Confederation of Turduli. At the time we mean, the vescianos already
had the same quality as the day their descendants have been dictation bermejinos valid: almost all
were blond and some candles. Stood out among all as fair as well as handsome and dashing, elegant
and noble young man Mutileder. Sling shot and killed extraordinary ability to planes passing
stones flying, riding on horseback, drove a car like few war, he knew by heart best verses composed
turdetanos and also very regular, with a club in the powerful was a tremendous right hand man,
with women was sweeter than a arropía and more without gall a dove, ran like a deer, fighting tooth
and nail as bears, and had another crowd of clothes that were recommended. You can almost ensure
that his only fault was being poor.

Mutileder, lost his father and mother, had no urban land and rustic,
lived as love staying with his uncles, and Vescio did not know what
used to make a living.

Was a man, as they say, without a job or benefit.

And was bordering on twenty-four, and tired of this life, and longing
to see the world, called blessing to his uncles, who were accompanied
by some the money, and also taking weapons and horse, Vescio left
to seek adventure and how to improve the condition.

As Mutileder presence was so beautiful, and it was also nice and happy, everywhere was very pleasing.
The bells sugetos of fancy and he was invited to dances and parties and the funniest ladies and haughty
eyes put her love, but he was good, prudish and simpleton, and took
out anything useful from this.

The money they gave him his uncles was consumed, and no new money came to replace him.

Thus, stopping in different populations, for example, Igábron, passing then Síngilis today Genil,
entering the land of the turdetanos, and also stopping Ventipo, came to a place of Bastulos
Aratispi was then called, and I suspect he be the Alora of our time, as famous for their games
plains. There was Mutileder a cousin who was a sun of beauty, with
eighteen years of age, and fairer than he, if fits. This premium is
called Echeloría. His father, widowed and very wealthy, the idolized. If to know him, and to live
up to our knowledge of him, is to be truly religious, then the life of self-realisation is,
in the truest and deepest sense of the word, a religious life. Or rather it is the only religious
life, for in no other way can knowledge of God be won.

Let me try to make good this statement. Knowledge of God is the outcome, not of definite dogmatic
instruction in theology, but of spiritual growth. Knowledge, whatever may be its object, is
always the outcome of growth. Even knowledge of number is the outcome, not of definite dogmatic
instruction in the arithmetical rules and tables, but of the growth of the arithmetical sense.
It is the same with literature, the same with history, the same with chemistry, the same with
"business," the same with navigation, the same with the driving of vehicles in crowded streets,
the same with every art, craft, sport, game, and pursuit. In evolving a special sense, the
soul is growing in one particular direction, a direction which is marked out for it by the
environment in which it finds it needful or desirable to energise. The soul has, as we have
seen, a general power of adapting itself to its environment, of permeating it, of feeling its
way through it, of getting to understand it, of dealing with it at last with skill and success.
As is the particular environment, so is the subtle, tactful, adaptive, directly perceptive,
subconsciously cognitive faculty,--the "sense," as I have called it--by means of which the
soul acquires the particular knowledge that it needs. The more highly specialised (whether
by subdivision or by abstraction) the environment, the more highly specialised the sense. The
larger and more comprehensive the environment, the larger and more "massive" the sense. The
acquired aptitude which enables an omnibus driver to steer his bulky vehicle through the traffic
of London is a highly specialised sense. At the other end of the scale we have the "massive"
spiritual faculties which deal with whole aspects of life or Nature, such as the sense of beauty
or of moral worth.

But there is a sense which is larger and more "massive" even than these. When the environment
is all-embracing, when it covers the whole circle of which the soul is or can be the centre,
the growth made in response to it is the growth of the soul as such, and the knowledge which
rewards that growth is the knowledge of supreme reality, or, in the language of religion, the
knowledge of God. The highest of all senses is the religious sense, the sense which gives us
knowledge of God. But the religious sense is not, as we are apt to imagine, one of many senses.
No one individual sense, however "massive" or subtle it might be, could enable its possessor
to get on terms, so to speak, with the totality of things, with the all-vitalising Life, with
the all-embracing Whole. The religious sense is the well-being of the soul. For the soul as
such grows in and through the growth of its various senses,--its own growth being reinforced
by the growth of each of these when Nature's balance is kept, and retarded by the growth of
one or more of them when Nature's balance is lost,--and in proportion as its own vital, central
growth is vigorous and healthy, its power of apprehending reality unfolds itself little by
little. That power is of its inmost essence. When reality, in the full sense of the word, is
its object, it sees with the whole of its being; it is itself, when it is at the centre of
its universe, its own supreme perceptive faculty, its own religious sense.

If this is so, if the soul in its totality, the soul acting through its whole "apperceptive
mass," is its own religious sense, it is abundantly clear that the path of self-realisation
is the only path which leads to knowledge of God, and through knowledge of God to salvation.
For self-realisation is the only scheme of life which provides for the growth of the soul in
its totality, for the harmonious, many-sided development of the soul as such. I have often
dwelt on this point. If we have never before realised its importance we must surely do so now.
A one-sided training, even when its one-sidedness takes the form of specialising in theology,
is a non-religious, and may well become an irreligious training, for it does not lead to, and
may well lead away from, knowledge of God.

And if we have never before realised how great are the opportunities and responsibilities of
the teacher, we must surely do so now. For a certain number of years--the number varies with
the social standing of the child, and the financial resources of his parents--the teacher can
afford to disregard utilitarian considerations and think only of what is best for the child.
What use will he make of those years? Will he lead the child into the path of self-realisation,
and so give a lifelong impetus to the growth of his soul? Or will he, in his thirst for "results,"
lead him into the path of mechanical obedience, or, at best, of one-sided development, and
so blight his budding faculties and arrest the growth of his soul? On the practical answer
that he gives to this question will depend the fate of the child. For to the child the difference
between the two paths will be the difference between fulfilling and missing his destiny, between
knowledge and ignorance of God.

If any of my readers have imagined that I am an advocate of what is called "secular education,"
they will, I hope, now realise that they have misread this book. Far from wishing to secularise
education, I hold that it cannot be too religious. And, far from wishing to limit its religious
activities to the first forty minutes of the morning sessions, I hold that it should be actively
religious through every minute of every school session, that whatever it does it should do
to the glory of God.

But how does knowledge of God show itself? Knowledge, so far as it is real, always shows itself
in right bearing, and (if action is called for) in right action. Knowledge of arithmetic and
of other more or less abstract subjects, shows itself in the successful working of the corresponding
problems, theoretical or practical as the case may be. Knowledge of the laws of physical nature
shows itself in practical mastery of the forces and resources of physical nature. Knowledge
of history and geography, in a right attitude towards the problems and sub-problems of these
complex and comprehensive subjects, an attitude which may on occasion translate itself into
right action. And so on. Knowledge of God, being a state or attitude of the soul as such, must
show itself in the right bearing and the right action of the soul as such, in other words,
of Man as Man,--not as mathematician, not as financier, not as sculptor, not as cricketer,
but simply as Man. Now Man as Man has to bear himself aright towards the world in which he
finds himself, and in particular towards the world which touches him most closely and envelops
him most completely,--the world of human life. Therefore knowledge of God will show itself,
principally and chiefly, though by no means wholly, in dealing aright with one's fellow-men,
in being rightly disposed towards them, and in doing the right things to them. I have found
it convenient to disconnect the moral from the religious aspect of self-realisation. We can
now see that in the last resort the two aspects are one.

From every point of view, then, and above all from that of Religion, the path of self-realisation
is seen to be the path of salvation. For it is the only scheme of life which enables him who
follows it to attain to knowledge of God; and knowledge of God has, as its necessary counterpart,
a right attitude, in general towards the world which surrounds him, and in particular towards
his fellow-men.

But is it possible, within the limits of one earth-life, to follow the path of self-realisation
to its appointed goal? And if not, will the path be continued beyond that abrupt turn in it
which we call death? The respective attitudes of the two great schools of popular thought towards
the problem of the grave, are in brief as follows. The Materialists (or Naturalists, as they
miscall themselves) believe that death is the end of life. The Supernaturalists believe that
one earth-life (or even a few years or months) of mechanical obedience to supernatural direction
will be rewarded by an eternity of happiness in "Heaven." But those who walk in the path of
self-realisation, and whose unswerving loyalty to Nature is rewarded by some measure of insight
into her deeper laws, know that the goal of the path is infinitely far away, and in their heart
of hearts they laugh both the current eschatologies to scorn. And the higher they ascend, as
they follow the path, the more vividly do they realise how unimaginably high above them is
the summit of the mountain which the path is ascending in spiral coils.

The Utopian experiment, humble as it is, can, I think, throw some light on these mighty problems.
The relations between the type and the various sub-types, between the type and the individual,
between the sub-type and the individual--whether in plant or beast or man--are matters which
could not be handled within the limits of this book, and which I have therefore as far as possible
ignored. Nor have I attempted to deal with the difficult problems that are presented by the
existence of races, such as the Negro, which seem to be far below the normal level of human
development. There is, however, in the vast region of thought which these and kindred problems
open out to us, one by-way which I must be allowed to follow for a while.

The wild bullace is, I believe, the ancestor of many of our yellow plums. In other words, bullacehood
can develop into plumhood, and even into the perfection of plumhood. Similarly human nature
can develop into something so high above the normal level of human nature that it might almost
seem to belong to another genus. But there is a difference between the two cases. The bullace
ideal is in the individual bullace tree. So, in a sense, is the plum ideal. But the latter
cannot be realised, or even approached, by the individual bullace tree. It cannot be realised,
or even approached, by the bullace species except through a long course of culture and breeding.
Is it the same with Man? Let us take English rusticity as a particular type of human nature,--the
equivalent of bullacehood for the purpose of argument. This is a distinct type, and may be
said to have its own ideal.[37] Emerging from this, and gradually transforming it, is the ideal
of human nature, the ideal for Man as Man. As the bullace ideal is to the plum ideal, so is
the ideal of English rusticity to the ideal of human nature. But whereas the plum ideal cannot
be realised in any appreciable degree by the individual bullace, the human ideal can be realised
in a quite appreciable degree by the individual English rustic. There have always been and
will always be isolated cases to prove that this is so,--cases of men of quite humble origin
who have attained to high degrees of mental and spiritual development. These have hitherto
been regarded as exceptional cases. But Egeria has convinced me that under favourable conditions
the average child can become the rare exception, and attain to what is usually regarded as
a remarkably high degree of mental and spiritual development. Innocent joy, self-forgetfulness,
communal devotion, heartfelt goodwill, gracious manners--to speak of spiritual development
only--are characteristics of every Utopian child. What are we to infer from this? The bullace
ideal is realisable (under favourable conditions) by each individual bullace tree,--but the
plum ideal is not. The English rustic ideal is realisable by each individual rustic child.
But so is the human ideal in Utopia.

But what of the children who do not belong to Utopia? What would have happened to the Utopian
children if there had been no Egeria to lead them into the path of self-realisation? They would
have lived and died ordinary English rustics,--healthy bullaces, but in no respect or degree
plums. Egeria has convinced me that the average child, besides being born mentally and spiritually
healthy, has immense capacity on every side of his being. The plum ideal is the true nature
of the plum, but is not the true nature of the bullace. But Egeria has convinced me that the
human ideal--the divine self--is the true nature of each of us, even of the average rustic
child; and she has also convinced me that each of us can go a long way towards realising that
ideal. Had there been no Egeria in Utopia, the Utopians would have lived and died undeveloped,
having arrived at a maturity of a kind, the maturity of the bullace as distinguished from that
of the plum, but having failed to realise in any appreciable degree what the Utopian experiment
has proved to be their true nature. What then? Is this the end of the average man? Will Nature
admit final defeat? The curve of a man's life, as it sweeps round from birth to death, passes
through the point of apparent maturity; but the real nature of the man has never ripened, and
when he descends into the grave he is still the embryo of his true self. Will the true self
never be realised? Never, if death is indeed the end of life. But in that case the man will
have failed to fulfil the central purpose of Nature, and, alone among her children, will have
escaped from the control of her all-pervading law of growth.

It is in their desire to keep Man in line with the rest of Nature's children that so many thinkers
and scientists in the West forbid him to look beyond the horizon of the grave. But in truth
it is only by being allowed to look beyond that horizon that Man can be kept in line with the
rest of Nature's children; for if death means extinction to him, as it means (or seems to mean)
to the beetle or the fly, he will have lived to no purpose, having failed to realise in any
appreciable degree what every other living thing realises within its appointed limits,--the
central tendencies of his being. That a living thing, an average specimen of its kind, should
within the limits of a normal life fail completely to realise those potentialities which are
distinctive of its real nature,--fail so completely that the very existence of those potentialities
might, but for an occasional and quite exceptional revelation, have remained unsuspected,--is
entirely at variance with what we know of the ways and works of Nature. Yet failure to realise
his true manhood is, outside the confines of Utopia, the apparent lot of nine men out of ten.
An entire range of qualities, spiritual and mental, which blossom freely in the stimulating
atmosphere of Utopia, and which must therefore exist in embryo in every normal child, fail
to germinate (or at best only just begin to germinate) within the lifetime of the average non-Utopian.[38]
The inference to be drawn from these significant facts is that the apparent limits of Man's
life are not the real limits; that the one earth-life of which each of us is conscious, far
from being the whole of one's life, is but a tiny fragment of it,--one term of its ascending
"series," one day in its cycle of years. In other words, the spiritual fertility of the average
Utopian child, taken in conjunction with the spiritual sterility of the average non-Utopian
child (and man), points to the conclusion which the thinkers of the Far East reached thousands
of years ago,--that for the full development of human nature a plurality of lives is needed,
which will do for the individual soul what generations of scientific breeding and culture will
do for the bullace that is to be transformed into a plum.

This is one lesson which Utopia has taught me. There is another which had also been anticipated
by the thinkers of the Far East. If under exceptionally favourable conditions certain spiritual
and mental qualities are able to blossom freely in the space of a few years, which under normal
conditions would remain undeveloped during a lifetime of seventy or eighty years, may we not
infer that there is a directer path to spiritual maturity than that which is ordinarily followed? 

  It arrogantly reckless man's value has been released to blind
  in the middle of the cliffs and storms.

  
  I do not speak in any way today, today has no merit a trip around
the world today everything is known, there are now media.

  
  

  I refer to Colon, great vantage of modern ages has no rival.
  
  It is necessary to make a trip to America to gain insight the
  heroism of Columbus, otherwise it is not understood, and most of
the Colon heroism, of our brave compatriots composed the crew of her
three small boats.

  
  
  Yes, they are more heroic, Colon had the genius, the ray inspiration,
  the prospect of the glory that has immortalized by a guide: he
  knew where he was going: the simple sailors who accompanied him,
  no, no beaches that were more familiar of Spain, could not even
  dream of the existence of another world were seen thrown at a
  company that unnerving to all, that Europe all described as madness,
  were alone in the seas that no one but God's eye had seen,
  without knowing where they went or why route: believing that the
  return would impossible, believing with reason and ignoring
  at the same time if would have arrived, because they knew nothing,
  because then know everything, because no one knew what was behind
the sea.

  Is necessary to make a sea voyage to understand this.
  
  From San Vicente to Pernambuco, the first population of Brazil, on
the other side of the line is, employed our steam eight days.

  
  

  The distance between two populations is 1.620 miles sea.
  Nothing bigger than the rising and setting sun seen from a ship in
the ocean.

FOOTNOTES:

[25] There is of course an intermediate class of vicious tendencies, which may be described
as apparent rather than actual, and which are caused partly by immaturity, partly by environment.
Many of the "naughtinesses" of school children belong to this class.

[26] The physical aspect is, of course, of incalculable importance. My only reason for ignoring
it is that I am not competent to deal with it. The æsthetic aspect is also of incalculable
importance; but I know so little about music or art, that I must limit my treatment of this
aspect to pointing out that until the musical and artistic instincts of the masses are systematically
trained in our elementary schools, through the medium of free self-expression on the part of
the children, we shall have neither a national music nor a national art.

[27] Workshops, for the use of the engineering classes, are, I believe, attached to the "Modern
Side" of some of our Great Public Schools; but I doubt if there is one among the Great Public
Schools, or even among the Preparatory Schools which lead up to them, in which "hand-work"
is part of the normal curriculum. Although the State two-thirds of the inhabitants profess reformed
religion or ritual called a Calvinist, and Roman Catholics make up, with 1.000 Jews, the other
third, in the most reformed capital is not in the same proportion. For the rest, but at every step is
heard in the talks on German-Swiss accent, Italian, English (by the abundance of travelers), and
even the Romans themselves, the dialect spoken in the Graubünden, French is the official and
common to all people.

[29] See also footnote 2 to page 270.

[30] When I was an undergraduate at Oxford, there was one at least of my friends who took a
genuine delight in the literary masterpieces of Greece and Rome,--the delight, not of a fastidious
scholar but of a born lover of good literature. He got a "Third" in Classical "Mods," and was
"gulfed" in "Greats." "Serve him right," his "dons" must have said, for I am afraid he cut
their lectures. [Greek: hôs apoloito kai allos hotis toiauta ge rhezoi.]

[31] Stanzas on the Grande Chartreuse, by Matthew Arnold.

[32] When I apply the epithet "irrational" to the outcry at Ephesus, I am thinking of the mob,
not of the silversmiths. The latter knew what they were about.

[33] Having said so much in disparagement of the mental training given in the great Public
Schools and the older Universities, let me now try to make my peace with my old school and
my University by expressing my conviction that those who are studying the "Humanities," whether
at school or college, and finding pleasure in their studies, are receiving the best education
that is at present procurable in England. Its inhabitants, as well as the Aragonese, reflect in
  their expressive faces honesty and frankness.

  
  The whole country is carefully cultivated: the peaks mountain vines
planted by the Basque laborious hand.

It is scarcely necessary for me to add that in the older Universities, as in the great Public
Schools, many valuable educative influences are at work outside the lecture-room. For one thing,
the undergraduates, who come from all parts of the world, are always educating one another.
For another thing, the "atmosphere" of Oxford and Cambridge does much for the mental and spiritual
development of those who are able to respond to its stimulus. Even the genius loci is educative,
in its own quiet, subtle way. But it would be an impertinence on my part to labour this point.
It is because Oxford and Cambridge educate their alumni in a thousand ways, the worth of which
no formal examination can test or measure, that they stand apart from all other Universities.

[34] I mean by the "lower self," not the animal base of one's existence, but the ordinary self
claiming to be the true self, and so rising in rebellion against its lawful lord.

[35] In other words, it might conceivably take the form of clan warfare, highly organised and
waged on a world-wide field; and we learn from the history of the Highlands of Scotland and
of Old Japan that of all forms of warfare the most cruel and relentless, with the exception
of that which is waged in the name of religion, is the warfare between clan and clan. It
is curious to contrast the upper and lower Rhône: the first, throwing over the basin their overflowing
lake gray mud, the second coming of purified lake and clear, as if to symbolize the purity of
morals and clarity of the free institutions Geneva and Vaud. This circumstance, which also shows
in other lakes, such as Brienz and Thun, is explained by the existence, at bottom, a purifying
substance and dye which acts as a powerful reagent.


[38] When I compare the average Utopian with the average non-Utopian, I am of course thinking
of the "masses," not of the "classes." If the comparison is to have any value, the conditions
in the two cases must be fairly equal. Mentally, the "classes" are, on the whole, more highly
developed (thanks to their more favourable environment) than the "masses." Spiritually and
morally, they are perhaps on a par with them.

[39] This was the idea which inspired the Founder of Buddhism, and led him to formulate a scheme
of life, in virtue of which he takes rank (as it seems to me) as the greatest educationalist,
as well as the greatest moralist, that the world has ever known.

THE END

