'It is a law of nature we overlook, that intellectual versatility is the compensation for change,
danger, and trouble. An animal perfectly in harmony with its environment is a perfect mechanism.
Nature never appeals to intelligence until habit and instinct are useless. There is no intelligence
where there is no change and no need of change. Only those animals partake of intelligence
that have to meet a huge variety of needs and dangers.

'So, as I see it, the Upper-world man had drifted towards his feeble prettiness, and the Under-world
to mere mechanical industry. But that perfect state had lacked one thing even for mechanical
perfection--absolute permanency. Apparently as time went on, the feeding of the Under-world,
however it was effected, had become disjointed. Mother Necessity, who had been staved off for
a few thousand years, came back again, and she began below. The Under-world being in contact
with machinery, which, however perfect, still needs some little thought outside habit, had
probably retained perforce rather more initiative, if less of every other human character,
than the Upper. And when other meat failed them, they turned to what old habit had hitherto
forbidden. So I say I saw it in my last view of the world of Eight Hundred and Two Thousand
Seven Hundred and One. It may be as wrong an explanation as mortal wit could invent. It is
how the thing shaped itself to me, and as that I give it to you.

'After the fatigues, excitements, and terrors of the past days, and in spite of my grief, this
seat and the tranquil view and the warm sunlight were very pleasant. I was very tired and sleepy,
and soon my theorizing passed into dozing. Catching myself at that, I took my own hint, and
spreading myself out upon the turf I had a long and refreshing sleep.

'I awoke a little before sunsetting. I now felt safe against being caught napping by the Morlocks,
and, stretching myself, I came on down the hill towards the White Sphinx. I had my crowbar
in one hand, and the other hand played with the matches in my pocket.

'And now came a most unexpected thing. As I approached the pedestal of the sphinx I found the
bronze valves were open. They had slid down into grooves.

'At that I stopped short before them, hesitating to enter.

'Within was a small apartment, and on a raised place in the corner of this was the Time Machine.
I had the small levers in my pocket. So here, after all my elaborate preparations for the siege
of the White Sphinx, was a meek surrender. I threw my iron bar away, almost sorry not to use it.

'A sudden thought came into my head as I stooped towards the portal. For once, at least, I
grasped the mental operations of the Morlocks. Suppressing a strong inclination to laugh, I
stepped through the bronze frame and up to the Time Machine. I was surprised to find it had
been carefully oiled and cleaned. I have suspected since that the Morlocks had even partially
taken it to pieces while trying in their dim way to grasp its purpose.

'Now as I stood and examined it, finding a pleasure in the mere touch of the contrivance, the
thing I had expected happened. The bronze panels suddenly slid up and struck the frame with
a clang. I was in the dark--trapped. So the Morlocks thought. At that I chuckled gleefully.

'I could already hear their murmuring laughter as they came towards me. Very calmly I tried
to strike the match. I had only to fix on the levers and depart then like a ghost. But I had
overlooked one little thing. The matches were of that abominable kind that light only on the box.

'You may imagine how all my calm vanished. The little brutes were close upon me. One touched
me. I made a sweeping blow in the dark at them with the levers, and began to scramble into
the saddle of the machine. Then came one hand upon me and then another. Then I had simply to
fight against their persistent fingers for my levers, and at the same time feel for the studs
over which these fitted. One, indeed, they almost got away from me. As it slipped from my hand,
I had to butt in the dark with my head--I could hear the Morlock's skull ring--to recover it.
It was a nearer thing than the fight in the forest, I think, this last scramble.

'But at last the lever was fitted and pulled over. The clinging hands slipped from me. The
darkness presently fell from my eyes. I found myself in the same grey light and tumult I have
already described.

XI

'I have already told you of the sickness and confusion that comes with time travelling. And
this time I was not seated properly in the saddle, but sideways and in an unstable fashion.
For an indefinite time I clung to the machine as it swayed and vibrated, quite unheeding how
I went, and when I brought myself to look at the dials again I was amazed to find where I had
arrived. One dial records days, and another thousands of days, another millions of days, and
another thousands of millions. Now, instead of reversing the levers, I had pulled them over
so as to go forward with them, and when I came to look at these indicators I found that the
thousands hand was sweeping round as fast as the seconds hand of a watch--into futurity.

'As I drove on, a peculiar change crept over the appearance of things. The palpitating greyness
grew darker; then--though I was still travelling with prodigious velocity--the blinking succession
of day and night, which was usually indicative of a slower pace, returned, and grew more and
more marked. This puzzled me very much at first. The alternations of night and day grew slower
and slower, and so did the passage of the sun across the sky, until they seemed to stretch
through centuries. At last a steady twilight brooded over the earth, a twilight only broken
now and then when a comet glared across the darkling sky. The band of light that had indicated
the sun had long since disappeared; for the sun had ceased to set--it simply rose and fell
in the west, and grew ever broader and more red. All trace of the moon had vanished. The circling
of the stars, growing slower and slower, had given place to creeping points of light. At last,
some time before I stopped, the sun, red and very large, halted motionless upon the horizon,
a vast dome glowing with a dull heat, and now and then suffering a momentary extinction. At
one time it had for a little while glowed more brilliantly again, but it speedily reverted
to its sullen red heat. I perceived by this slowing down of its rising and setting that the
work of the tidal drag was done. The earth had come to rest with one face to the sun, even
as in our own time the moon faces the earth. Very cautiously, for I remembered my former headlong
fall, I began to reverse my motion. Slower and slower went the circling hands until the thousands
one seemed motionless and the daily one was no longer a mere mist upon its scale. Still slower,
until the dim outlines of a desolate beach grew visible.

'I stopped very gently and sat upon the Time Machine, looking round. The sky was no longer
blue. North-eastward it was inky black, and out of the blackness shone brightly and steadily
the pale white stars. Overhead it was a deep Indian red and starless, and south-eastward it
grew brighter to a glowing scarlet where, cut by the horizon, lay the huge hull of the sun,
red and motionless. The rocks about me were of a harsh reddish colour, and all the trace of
life that I could see at first was the intensely green vegetation that covered every projecting
point on their south-eastern face. It was the same rich green that one sees on forest moss
or on the lichen in caves: plants which like these grow in a perpetual twilight.

'The machine was standing on a sloping beach. The sea stretched away to the south-west, to
rise into a sharp bright horizon against the wan sky. There were no breakers and no waves,
for not a breath of wind was stirring. Only a slight oily swell rose and fell like a gentle
breathing, and showed that the eternal sea was still moving and living. And along the margin
where the water sometimes broke was a thick incrustation of salt--pink under the lurid sky.
There was a sense of oppression in my head, and I noticed that I was breathing very fast. The
sensation reminded me of my only experience of mountaineering, and from that I judged the air
to be more rarefied than it is now.

'Far away up the desolate slope I heard a harsh scream, and saw a thing like a huge white butterfly
go slanting and fluttering up into the sky and, circling, disappear over some low hillocks
beyond. The sound of its voice was so dismal that I shivered and seated myself more firmly
upon the machine. Looking round me again, I saw that, quite near, what I had taken to be a
reddish mass of rock was moving slowly towards me. Then I saw the thing was really a monstrous
crab-like creature. Can you imagine a crab as large as yonder table, with its many legs moving
slowly and uncertainly, its big claws swaying, its long antennae, like carters' whips, waving
and feeling, and its stalked eyes gleaming at you on either side of its metallic front? Its
back was corrugated and ornamented with ungainly bosses, and a greenish incrustation blotched
it here and there. I could see the many palps of its complicated mouth flickering and feeling
as it moved.

'As I stared at this sinister apparition crawling towards me, I felt a tickling on my cheek
as though a fly had lighted there. I tried to brush it away with my hand, but in a moment it
returned, and almost immediately came another by my ear. I struck at this, and caught something
threadlike. It was drawn swiftly out of my hand. With a frightful qualm, I turned, and I saw
that I had grasped the antenna of another monster crab that stood just behind me. Its evil
eyes were wriggling on their stalks, its mouth was all alive with appetite, and its vast ungainly
claws, smeared with an algal slime, were descending upon me. In a moment my hand was on the
lever, and I had placed a month between myself and these monsters. But I was still on the same
beach, and I saw them distinctly now as soon as I stopped. Dozens of them seemed to be crawling
here and there, in the sombre light, among the foliated sheets of intense green.

'I cannot convey the sense of abominable desolation that hung over the world. The red eastern
sky, the northward blackness, the salt Dead Sea, the stony beach crawling with these foul,
slow-stirring monsters, the uniform poisonous-looking green of the lichenous plants, the thin
air that hurts one's lungs: all contributed to an appalling effect. I moved on a hundred years,
and there was the same red sun--a little larger, a little duller--the same dying sea, the same
chill air, and the same crowd of earthy crustacea creeping in and out among the green weed
and the red rocks. And in the westward sky, I saw a curved pale line like a vast new moon.

