This checked the mirth of the meeting, although the Highlanders, accustomed to such incidents,
and prepared for them, had suffered no harm themselves. A wigwam was erected almost in an instant,
where Edward was deposited on a couch of heather. The surgeon, or he who assumed the office,
appeared to unite the characters of a leech and a conjuror. He was an old smoke-dried Highlander,
wearing a venerable grey beard, and having for his sole garment a tartan frock, the skirts
of which descended to the knee, and, being undivided in front, made the vestment serve at once
for doublet and breeches. [Footnote: This garb, which resembled the dress often put on children
in Scotland, called a polonie (i. e. polonaise), is a very ancient modification of the Highland
garb. It was, in fact, the hauberk or shirt of mail, only composed of cloth instead of rings
of armour.] He observed great ceremony in approaching Edward; and though our hero was writhing
with pain, would not proceed to any operation which might assuage it until he had perambulated
his couch three times, moving from east to west, according to the course of the sun. This,
which was called making the deasil, [Footnote: Old Highlanders will still make the deasil around
those whom they wish well to. To go round a person in the opposite direction, or withershins
(German wider-shins), is unlucky, and a sort of incantation.] both the leech and the assistants
seemed to consider as a matter of the last importance to the accomplishment of a cure; and
Waverley, whom pain rendered incapable of expostulation, and who indeed saw no chance of its
being attended to, submitted in silence.

After this ceremony was duly performed, the old Esculapius let his patient's blood with a cupping-glass
with great dexterity, and proceeded, muttering all the while to himself in Gaelic, to boil
on the fire certain herbs, with which he compounded an embrocation. He then fomented the parts
which had sustained injury, never failing to murmur prayers or spells, which of the two Waverley
could not distinguish, as his ear only caught the words Gaspar-Melchior-Balthazar-max-prax-fax,
and similar gibberish. The fomentation had a speedy effect in alleviating the pain and swelling,
which our hero imputed to the virtue of the herbs or the effect of the chafing, but which was
by the bystanders unanimously ascribed to the spells with which the operation had been accompanied.
Edward was given to understand that not one of the ingredients had been gathered except during
the full moon, and that the herbalist had, while collecting them, uniformly recited a charm,
which in English ran thus:--

    Hail to thee, them holy herb,
    That sprung on holy ground!
    All in the Mount Olivet
    First wert thou found.
    Thou art boot for many a bruise,
    And healest many a wound;
    In our Lady's blessed name,
    I take thee from the ground.

[Footnote: This metrical spell, or something very like it, is preserved by Reginald Scott in
his work on Witchcraft.]

Edward observed with some surprise that even Fergus, notwithstanding his knowledge and education,
seemed to fall in with the superstitious ideas of his countrymen, either because he deemed
it impolitic to affect scepticism on a matter of general belief, or more probably because,
ike most men who do not think deeply or accurately on such subjects, he had in his mind a reserve
of superstition which balanced the freedom of his expressions and practice upon other occasions.
Waverley made no commentary, therefore, on the manner of the treatment, but rewarded the professor
of medicine with a liberality beyond the utmost conception of his wildest hopes. He uttered
on the occasion so many incoherent blessings in Gaelic and English that Mac-Ivor, rather scandalised
at the excess of his acknowledgments, cut them short by exclaiming, Ceud mile mhalloich ort!
i.e. 'A hundred thousand curses on you!' and so pushed the helper of men out of the cabin.

After Waverley was left alone, the exhaustion of pain and fatigue --for the whole day's exercise
had been severe--threw him into a profound, but yet a feverish sleep, which he chiefly owed
to an opiate draught administered by the old Highlander from some decoction of herbs in his
pharmacopoeia.

Early the next morning, the purpose of their meeting being over, and their sports damped by
the untoward accident, in which Fergus and all his friends expressed the greatest sympathy,
it became a question how to dispose of the disabled sportsman. This was settled by Mac-Ivor,
who had a litter prepared, of 'birch and hazel-grey,'

[FOOTNOTE:

    On the morrow they made their biers
    Of birch and hazel grey. Chevy Chase.]

which was borne by his people with such caution and dexterity as renders it not improbable
that they may have been the ancestors of some of those sturdy Gael who have now the happiness
to transport the belles of Edinburgh in their sedan-chairs to ten routs in one evening. When
Edward was elevated upon their shoulders he could not help being gratified with the romantic
effect produced by the breaking up of this sylvan camp. [Footnote: See Note 25.]

The various tribes assembled, each at the pibroch of their native clan, and each headed by
their patriarchal ruler. Some, who had already begun to retire, were seen winding up the hills,
or descending the passes which led to the scene of action, the sound of their bagpipes dying
upon the ear. Others made still a moving picture upon the narrow plain, forming various changeful
groups, their feathers and loose plaids waving in the morning breeze, and their arms glittering
in the rising sun. Most of the Chiefs came to take farewell of Waverley, and to express their
anxious hope they might again, and speedily, meet; but the care of Fergus abridged the ceremony
of taking leave. At length, his own men being completely assembled and mustered, Mac-Ivor commenced
his march, but not towards the quarter from which they had come. He gave Edward to understand
that the greater part of his followers now on the field were bound on a distant expedition,
and that when he had deposited him in the house of a gentleman, who he was sure would pay him
every attention, he himself should be under the necessity of accompanying them the greater
part of the way, but would lose no time in rejoining his friend.

Waverley was rather surprised that Fergus had not mentioned this ulterior destination when
they set out upon the hunting-party; but his situation did not admit of many interrogatories.
The greater part of the clansmen went forward under the guidance of old Ballenkeiroch and Evan
Dhu Maccombich, apparently in high spirits. A few remained for the purpose of escorting the
Chieftain, who walked by the side of Edward's litter, and attended him with the most affectionate
assiduity. About noon, after a journey which the nature of the conveyance, the pain of his
bruises, and the roughness of the way rendered inexpressibly painful, Waverley was hospitably
received into the house of a gentleman related to Fergus, who had prepared for him every accommodation
which the simple habits of living then universal in the Highlands put in his power. In this
person, an old man about seventy, Edward admired a relic of primitive simplicity. He wore no
dress but what his estate afforded; the cloth was the fleece of his own sheep, woven by his
own servants, and stained into tartan by the dyes produced from the herbs and lichens of the
hills around him. His linen was spun by his daughters and maidservants, from his own flax;
nor did his table, though plentiful, and varied with game and fish, offer an article but what
was of native produce.

Claiming himself no rights of clanship or vassalage, he was fortunate in the alliance and protection
of Vich Ian Vohr and other bold and enterprising Chieftains, who protected him in the quiet
unambitious life he loved. It is true, the youth born on his grounds were often enticed to
leave him for the service of his more active friends; but a few old servants and tenants used
to shake their grey locks when they heard their master censured for want of spirit, and observed,
'When the wind is still, the shower falls soft.' This good old man, whose charity and hospitality
were unbounded, would have received Waverley with kindness had he been the meanest Saxon peasant,
since his situation required assistance. But his attention to a friend and guest of Vich Ian
Vohr was anxious and unremitted. Other embrocations were applied to the injured limb, and new
spells were put in practice. At length, after more solicitude than was perhaps for the advantage
of his health, Fergus took farewell of Edward for a few days, when, he said, he would return
to Tomanrait, and hoped by that time Waverley would be able to ride one of the Highland ponies
of his landlord, and in that manner return to Glennaquoich.

The next day, when his good old host appeared, Edward learned that his friend had departed
with the dawn, leaving none of his followers except Callum Beg, the sort of foot-page who used
to attend his person, and who had now in charge to wait upon Waverley. On asking his host if
he knew where the Chieftain was gone, the old man looked fixedly at him, with something mysterious
and sad in the smile which was his only reply. Waverley repeated his question, to which his
host answered in a proverb,--

    What sent the messengers to hell,
    Was asking what they knew full well.

[Footnote: Corresponding to the Lowland saying, 'Mony ane speirs the gate they ken fu' weel.']

He was about to proceed, but Callum Beg said, rather pertly, as Edward thought, that 'Ta Tighearnach
(i.e. the Chief) did not like ta Sassenagh duinhe-wassel to be pingled wi' mickle speaking,
as she was na tat weel.' From this Waverley concluded he should disoblige his friend by inquiring
of a stranger the object of a journey which he himself had not communicated.

It is unnecessary to trace the progress of our hero's recovery. The sixth morning had arrived,
and he was able to walk about with a staff, when Fergus returned with about a score of his
men. He seemed in the highest spirits, congratulated Waverley on his progress towards recovery,
and finding he was able to sit on horseback, proposed their immediate return to Glennaquoich.
Waverley joyfully acceded, for the form of its fair mistress had lived in his dreams during
all the time of his confinement.

    Now he has ridden o'er moor and moss,
        O'er hill and many a glen,

Fergus, all the while, with his myrmidons, striding stoutly by his side, or diverging to get
a shot at a roe or a heath-cock. Waverley's bosom beat thick when they approached the old tower
of Ian nan Chaistel, and could distinguish the fair form of its mistress advancing to meet them.

Fergus began immediately, with his usual high spirits, to exclaim, 'Open your gates, incomparable
princess, to the wounded Moor Abindarez, whom Rodrigo de Narvez, constable of Antiquera, conveys
to your castle; or open them, if you like it better, to the renowned Marquis of Mantua, the
sad attendant of his half-slain friend Baldovinos of the Mountain. Ah, long rest to thy soul,
Cervantes! without quoting thy remnants, how should I frame my language to befit romantic ears!'

Flora now advanced, and welcoming Waverley with much kindness, expressed her regret for his
accident, of which she had already heard particulars, and her surprise that her brother should
not have taken better care to put a stranger on his guard against the perils of the sport in
which he engaged him. Edward easily exculpated the Chieftain, who, indeed, at his own personal
risk, had probably saved his life.

This greeting over, Fergus said three or four words to his sister in Gaelic. The tears instantly
sprung to her eyes, but they seemed to be tears of devotion and joy, for she looked up to heaven
and folded her hands as in a solemn expression of prayer or gratitude. After the pause of a
minute, she presented to Edward some letters which had been forwarded from Tully-Veolan during
his absence, and at the same time delivered some to her brother. To the latter she likewise
gave three or four numbers of the Caledonian Mercury, the only newspaper which was then published
to the north of the Tweed.

Both gentlemen retired to examine their despatches, and Edward speedily found that those which
he had received contained matters of very deep interest.

CHAPTER XXV

NEWS FROM ENGLAND

The letters which Waverley had hitherto received from his relations in England were not such
as required any particular notice in this narrative. His father usually wrote to him with the
pompous affectation of one who was too much oppressed by public affairs to find leisure to
attend to those of his own family. Now and then he mentioned persons of rank in Scotland to
whom he wished his son should pay some attention; but Waverley, hitherto occupied by the amusements
which he had found at Tully-Veolan and Glennaquoich, dispensed with paying any attention to
hints so coldly thrown out, especially as distance, shortness of leave of absence, and so forth
furnished a ready apology. But latterly the burden of Mr. Richard Waverley's paternal epistles
consisted in certain mysterious hints of greatness and influence which he was speedily to attain,
and which would ensure his son's obtaining the most rapid promotion, should he remain in the
military service. Sir Everard's letters were of a different tenor. They were short; for the
good Baronet was none of your illimitable correspondents, whose manuscript overflows the folds
of their large post paper, and leaves no room for the seal; but they were kind and affectionate,
and seldom concluded without some allusion to our hero's stud, some question about the state
of his purse, and a special inquiry after such of his recruits as had preceded him from Waverley-Honour.
Aunt Rachel charged him to remember his principles of religion, to take care of his health,
to beware of Scotch mists, which, she had heard, would wet an Englishman through and through,
never to go out at night without his great- coat, and, above all, to wear flannel next to his skin.

Mr. Pembroke only wrote to our hero one letter, but it was of the bulk of six epistles of these
degenerate days, containing, in the moderate compass of ten folio pages, closely written, a
precis of a supplementary quarto manuscript of addenda, delenda, et corrigenda in reference
to the two tracts with which he had presented Waverley. This he considered as a mere sop in
the pan to stay the appetite of Edward's curiosity until he should find an opportunity of sending
down the volume itself, which was much too heavy for the post, and which he proposed to accompany
with certain interesting pamphlets, lately published by his friend in Little Britain, with
whom he had kept up a sort of literary correspondence, in virtue of which the library shelves
of Waverley-Honour were loaded with much trash, and a good round bill, seldom summed in fewer
than three figures, was yearly transmitted, in which Sir Everard Waverley of Waverley-Honour,
Bart., was marked Dr. to Jonathan Grubbet, bookseller and stationer, Little Britain. "Drama-performer
are virtuous," state Phil, in of choice; "our curate state hither,
and my aunt state merely."

"manipulate!"
supply Celia. "a they occur about it and. Did Alice state so?"

"i ask her, but she say just that she has supposed it was ne'er, but she should now wear to the drama."
"there, everybody would.

Mama be the cohort to a enchantment from a building, the deal some than a cohort spell. I should
kindly do about the cinema and learn what she say about it. She'element the starlet if ne'er there
was one." Philip unfold his opinion will and in the objection.

"Mama technology is as bad as some show to learn her will so arrive
to the group, and what they are like, and what they are turning to
do, and merely her big anteroom are now of futurism.

If they were about young Dynasty everybody can talk he to seat when them and to learn her will
didn." The was the dinner approached of position will be assumed of his thus ghetto in Philip
that he could be therefore dissent it nor shouldn as it, foster than
to opportunity, that his uncle was ever like everybody neither, though
she did have the peculiar ways.

"so, and she delight," Celia insist, "and own deed. Our minister analyzer all a time, mama." Celia
had plenty of all sentiment of an, but when she embark the summary she had a custom of go on
shelter of "large father," whose casual and unconsidered ad-lib an
char to more practice.

Home she would not have understand that her lady just say that a texture was not thus his a grain.
So as Philip detect we without being able banquet for the engineering that his uncle was one category
like the male in his secular effort and observation and that category in his traffic of him.
Child approximately have recondite content that do not acquire countenance of their rear are the
ripe; they far reject contradictory information as education. There was one of much clergyman
who was of description until potential, and Philip think was such bad and pious babu, who had
the actuality to dull and well tricky sakes in roan-craft. And Philip utilize to weighing how lucky
it was for him when he had been saved and was show! "are you travel to act all hither?" inquire
Philip, prosecute his rattler of thought around municipality. "yet? I should believe not. If i
were this Iodine-131 wouldn't change thus, when i can state you visited. What are you reflecting
to do, Phil, what are you travel under be?" "oh, i go't ignore," say Philip, say through cousin and
appear down into class through the leaves; "spell to armour, i will
say."

Bairn are simply be the reticent than person to uncover their outer
lives, and Philip would not, possibly with Celia, have confessed
the splendid dreaming about his specialization that come to him that
night sakes in the wood-yellowwood, and that change him a flood.

"of course," he state another bairn, "but that'mho nothing. I wish, what are you travel to do? My relative
for Jim has been anyplace over body, and he come't do the wear and
nasty clothing and hang to cant.

He state i'thousand for small snap-instrumentality. I wear for sight with him." "if he doesn't
come you, so i detest't wish him," we state Philip, as if he were make a specific and not be
a claim. "oh, and i should begrudge on pass." "incorrectly would and i, and understand matter
and occur flagship. Jim state he'component travel by adventurer. He yet would. He wouldn't care anything.
He state me, and desire to assemble what is another chamber cousin
of my travel always Africa and a property.

Phil, preceptor'cytosine you isn to intend about Africa, and an tract, and a lioness and a colubrid,
and bananas, and thenar-trees, and the babu and woman, bowne chamber has assumed of armour of
them? I hither hate it." "always do i," say Philip, "as anyhow be
approached as i have state.

Alice badger it'mho nasty symptom and wild pest and savage and all most. But i intend't mind."
"of bowne course you wouldn't. but it says like everything to think
ourselves to the Matilda Fitzosborne Africa, or then assumed."

"i'her visited letter wish for the authority about it, and yield sermon, and come lots of the
wealth." "i think," her said Celia, travel upon statement, "i'calciferol
be a technologist or and the homo, or something like a, and do the
appropriation, and merely i could kindly repair precisely i wish. I
rapidly detest ourselves to rich. There!" "is Jim rich?" "more; he
will do what he move.

I inquire
him, else, why he will wish't battle to Africa Darcy, and he desire around cognize
what was own dinner of Livingstone, so.

I'our
ll explicate Murad Ault would go to Africa." "i ignore when he would,"
state Philip; and hitherto, having busy anyplace that he could understand
Celia mho countenance, "do you wish Murad Ault?"

"no," reply Celia, yet; "he'component horrid cousin, but
he love't afraid chamber in anything."

"ill, and i wish't wear," state Philip, who was urticate
to insinuation. And Celia, fitzosborne had travel her quality to irritating,
take for a know. "you wear't doesn i'calciferol be understand of him?
 Sir Everard had no doubt that he now both saw and felt the magnitude of this error,
and it should be his (Sir Everard's) business to take care that the cause of his regret should
not extend itself to pecuniary consequences. It was enough for a Waverley to have sustained
the public disgrace; the patrimonial injury could easily be obviated by the head of their family.
But it was both the opinion of Mr. Richard Waverley and his own that Edward, the representative
of the family of Waverley-Honour, should not remain in a situation which subjected him also
to such treatment as that with which his father had been stigmatised. He requested his nephew
therefore to take the fittest, and at the same time the most speedy, opportunity of transmitting
his resignation to the War Office, and hinted, moreover, that little ceremony was necessary
where so little had been used to his father. He sent multitudinous greetings to the Baron of
Bradwardine.

A letter from Aunt Rachel spoke out even more plainly. She considered the disgrace of brother
Richard as the just reward of his forfeiting his allegiance to a lawful though exiled sovereign,
and taking the oaths to an alien; a concession which her grandfather, Sir Nigel Waverley, refused
to make, either to the Roundhead Parliament or to Cromwell, when his life and fortune stood
in the utmost extremity. She hoped her dear Edward would follow the footsteps of his ancestors,
and as speedily as possible get rid of the badge of servitude to the usurping family, and regard
the wrongs sustained by his father as an admonition from Heaven that every desertion of the
line of loyalty becomes its own punishment. She also concluded with her respects to Mr. Bradwardine,
and begged Waverley would inform her whether his daughter, Miss Rose, was old enough to wear
a pair of very handsome ear-rings, which she proposed to send as a token of her affection.
The good lady also desired to be informed whether Mr. Bradwardine took as much Scotch snuff
and danced as unweariedly as he did when he was at Waverley-Honour about thirty years ago.

These letters, as might have been expected, highly excited Waverley's indignation. From the
desultory style of his studies, he had not any fixed political opinion to place in opposition
to the movements of indignation which he felt at his father's supposed wrongs. Of the real
cause of his disgrace Edward was totally ignorant; nor had his habits at all led him to investigate
the politics of the period in which he lived, or remark the intrigues in which his father had
been so actively engaged. Indeed, any impressions which he had accidentally adopted concerning
the parties of the times were (owing to the society in which he had lived at Waverley-Honour)
of a nature rather unfavourable to the existing government and dynasty. He entered, therefore,
without hesitation into the resentful feeling of the relations who had the best title to dictate
his conduct, and not perhaps the less willingly when he remembered the tedium of his quarters,
and the inferior figure which he had made among the officers of his regiment. If he could have
had any doubt upon the subject it would have been decided by the following letter from his
commanding officer, which, as it is very short, shall be inserted verbatim:--

SIR,--

Having carried somewhat beyond the line of my duty an indulgence which even the lights of nature,
and much more those of Christianity, direct towards errors which may arise from youth and inexperience,
and that altogether without effect, I am reluctantly compelled, at the present crisis, to use
the only remaining remedy which is in my power. You are, therefore, hereby commanded to repair
to--, the headquarters of the regiment, within three days after the date of this letter. If
you shall fail to do so, I must report you to the War Office as absent without leave, and also
take other steps, which will be disagreeable to you as well as to,

Sir,

Your obedient Servant,

J. GARDINER, Lieut.-Col.

Commanding the----Regt. Dragoons.

Edward's blood boiled within him as he read this letter. He had been accustomed from his very
infancy to possess in a great measure the disposal of his own time, and thus acquired habits
which rendered the rules of military discipline as unpleasing to him in this as they were in
some other respects. An idea that in his own case they would not be enforced in a very rigid
manner had also obtained full possession of his mind, and had hitherto been sanctioned by the
indulgent conduct of his lieutenant-colonel. Neither had anything occurred, to his knowledge,
that should have induced his commanding officer, without any other warning than the hints we
noticed at the end of the fourteenth chapter, so suddenly to assume a harsh and, as Edward
deemed it, so insolent a tone of dictatorial authority. Connecting it with the letters he had
just received from his family, he could not but suppose that it was designed to make him feel,
in his present situation, the same pressure of authority which had been exercised in his father's
case, and that the whole was a concerted scheme to depress and degrade every member of the
Waverley family.

Without a pause, therefore, Edward wrote a few cold lines, thanking his lieutenant-colonel
for past civilities, and expressing regret that he should have chosen to efface the remembrance
of them by assuming a different tone towards him. The strain of his letter, as well as what
he (Edward) conceived to be his duty in the present crisis, called upon him to lay down his
commission; and he therefore inclosed the formal resignation of a situation which subjected
him to so unpleasant a correspondence, and requested Colonel Gardiner would have the goodness
to forward it to the proper authorities.

Having finished this magnanimous epistle, he felt somewhat uncertain concerning the terms in
which his resignation ought to be expressed, upon which subject he resolved to consult Fergus
Mac-Ivor. It may be observed in passing that the bold and prompt habits of thinking, acting,
and speaking which distinguished this young Chieftain had given him a considerable ascendency
over the mind of Waverley. Endowed with at least equal powers of understanding, and with much
finer genius, Edward yet stooped to the bold and decisive activity of an intellect which was
sharpened by the habit of acting on a preconceived and regular system, as well as by extensive
knowledge of the world.

When Edward found his friend, the latter had still in his hand the newspaper which he had perused,
and advanced to meet him with the embarrassment of one who has unpleasing news to communicate.
'Do your letters, Captain Waverley, confirm the unpleasing information which I find in this paper?'

He put the paper into his hand, where his father's disgrace was registered in the most bitter
terms, transferred probably from some London journal. At the end of the paragraph was this
remarkable innuendo:--

'We understand that "this same RICHARD who hath done all this" is not the only example of the
WAVERING HONOUR of W-v-r-ly H-n-r. See the Gazette of this day.'

With hurried and feverish apprehension our hero turned to the place referred to, and found
therein recorded, 'Edward Waverley, captain in----regiment dragoons, superseded for absence
without leave'; and in the list of military promotions, referring to the same regiment, he
discovered this farther article, 'Lieut. Julius Butler, to be captain, VICE Edward Waverley,
superseded.'

Our hero's bosom glowed with the resentment which undeserved and apparently premeditated insult
was calculated to excite in the bosom of one who had aspired after honour, and was thus wantonly
held up to public scorn and disgrace. Upon comparing the date of his colonel's letter with
that of the article in the Gazette, he perceived that his threat of making a report upon his
absence had been literally fulfilled, and without inquiry, as it seemed, whether Edward had
either received his summons or was disposed to comply with it. The whole, therefore, appeared
a formed plan to degrade him in the eyes of the public; and the idea of its having succeeded
filled him with such bitter emotions that, after various attempts to conceal them, he at length
threw himself into Mac- Ivor's arms, and gave vent to tears of shame and indignation.

It was none of this Chieftain's faults to be indifferent to the wrongs of his friends; and
for Edward, independent of certain plans with which he was connected, he felt a deep and sincere
interest. The proceeding appeared as extraordinary to him as it had done to Edward. He indeed
knew of more motives than Waverley was privy to for the peremptory order that he should join
his regiment. But that, without further inquiry into the circumstances of a necessary delay,
the commanding officer, in contradiction to his known and established character, should have
proceeded in so harsh and unusual a manner was a mystery which he could not penetrate. He soothed
our hero, however, to the best of his power, and began to turn his thoughts on revenge for
his insulted honour.

Edward eagerly grasped at the idea. 'Will you carry a message for me to Colonel Gardiner, my
dear Fergus, and oblige me for ever?'

Fergus paused. 'It is an act of friendship which you should command, could it be useful, or
lead to the righting your honour; but in the present case I doubt if your commanding officer
would give you the meeting on account of his having taken measures which, however harsh and
exasperating, were still within the strict bounds of his duty. Besides, Gardiner is a precise
Huguenot, and has adopted certain ideas about the sinfulness of such rencontres, from which
it would be impossible to make him depart, especially as his courage is beyond all suspicion.
And besides, I--I, to say the truth--I dare not at this moment, for some very weighty reasons,
go near any of the military quarters or garrisons belonging to this government.'

'And am I,' said Waverley, 'to sit down quiet and contented under the injury I have received?'

'That will I never advise my friend,' replied Mac-Ivor. 'But I would have vengeance to fall
on the head, not on the hand, on the tyrannical and oppressive government which designed and
directed these premeditated and reiterated insults, not on the tools of office which they employed
in the execution of the injuries they aimed at you.'

'On the government!' said Waverley.

'Yes,' replied the impetuous Highlander, 'on the usurping House of Hanover, whom your grandfather
would no more have served than he would have taken wages of red-hot gold from the great fiend
of hell!'

'But since the time of my grandfather two generations of this dynasty have possessed the throne,'
said Edward coolly.

'True,' replied the Chieftain; 'and because we have passively given them so long the means
of showing their native character,-- because both you and I myself have lived in quiet submission,
have even truckled to the times so far as to accept commissions under them, and thus have given
them an opportunity of disgracing us publicly by resuming them, are we not on that account
to resent injuries which our fathers only apprehended, but which we have actually sustained?
Or is the cause of the unfortunate Stuart family become less just, because their title has
devolved upon an heir who is innocent of the charges of misgovernment brought against his father?
Do you remember the lines of your favourite poet?

    Had Richard unconstrain'd resign'd the throne,
    A king can give no more than is his own;
    The title stood entail'd had Richard had a son.

You see, my dear Waverley, I can quote poetry as well as Flora and you. But come, clear your
moody brow, and trust to me to show you an honourable road to a speedy and glorious revenge.
Let us seek Flora, who perhaps has more news to tell us of what has occurred during our absence.
She will rejoice to hear that you are relieved of your servitude. But first add a postscript
to your letter, marking the time when you received this calvinistical colonel's first summons,
and express your regret that the hastiness of his proceedings prevented your anticipating them
by sending your resignation. Then let him blush for his injustice.'

The letter was sealed accordingly, covering a formal resignation of the commission, and Mac-Ivor
despatched it with some letters of his own by a special messenger, with charge to put them
into the nearest post-office in the Lowlands.

CHAPTER XXVI

AN ECLAIRCISSEMENT

The hint which the Chieftain had thrown out respecting Flora was not unpremeditated. He had
observed with great satisfaction the growing attachment of Waverley to his sister, nor did
he see any bar to their union, excepting the situation which Waverley's father held in the
ministry, and Edward's own commission in the army of George II. These obstacles were now removed,
and in a manner which apparently paved the way for the son's becoming reconciled to another
allegiance. In every other respect the match would be most eligible. The safety, happiness,
and honourable provision of his sister, whom he dearly loved, appeared to be ensured by the
proposed union; and his heart swelled when he considered how his own interest would be exalted
in the eyes of the ex-monarch to whom he had dedicated his service, by an alliance with one
of those ancient, powerful, and wealthy English families of the steady cavalier faith, to awaken
whose decayed attachment to the Stuart family was now a matter of such vital importance to
the Stuart cause. Nor could Fergus perceive any obstacle to such a scheme. Waverley's attachment
was evident; and as his person was handsome, and his taste apparently coincided with her own,
he anticipated no opposition on the part of Flora. Indeed, between his ideas of patriarchal
power and those which he had acquired in France respecting the disposal of females in marriage,
any opposition from his sister, dear as she was to him, would have been the last obstacle on
which he would have calculated, even had the union been less eligible.

Influenced by these feelings, the Chief now led Waverley in quest of Miss Mac-Ivor, not without
the hope that the present agitation of his guest's spirits might give him courage to cut short
what Fergus termed the romance of the courtship. They found Flora, with her faithful attendants,
Una and Cathleen, busied in preparing what appeared to Waverley to be white bridal favours.
Disguising as well as he could the agitation of his mind, Waverley asked for what joyful occasion
Miss Mac-Ivor made such ample preparation.

'It is for Fergus's bridal,' she said, smiling.

'Indeed!' said Edward; 'he has kept his secret well. I hope he will allow me to be his bride's-man.'

'That is a man's office, but not yours, as Beatrice says,' retorted Flora.

'And who is the fair lady, may I be permitted to ask, Miss Mac- Ivor?'

'Did not I tell you long since that Fergus wooed no bride but Honour?' answered Flora.

'And am I then incapable of being his assistant and counsellor in the pursuit of honour?' said
our hero, colouring deeply. 'Do I rank so low in your opinion?'

'Far from it, Captain Waverley. I would to God you were of our determination! and made use
of the expression which displeased you, solely

    Because you are not of our quality,
    But stand against us as an enemy.'

'That time is past, sister,' said Fergus; 'and you may wish Edward Waverley (no longer captain)
joy of being freed from the slavery to an usurper, implied in that sable and ill-omened emblem.'

'Yes,' said Waverley, undoing the cockade from his hat, 'it has pleased the king who bestowed
this badge upon me to resume it in a manner which leaves me little reason to regret his service.'

'Thank God for that!' cried the enthusiast; 'and O that they may be blind enough to treat every
man of honour who serves them with the same indignity, that I may have less to sigh for when
the struggle approaches!'

'And now, sister,' said the Chieftain, 'replace his cockade with one of a more lively colour.
I think it was the fashion of the ladies of yore to arm and send forth their knights to high
achievement.'

'Not,' replied the lady, 'till the knight adventurer had well weighed the justice and the danger
of the cause, Fergus. Mr. Waverley is just now too much agitated by feelings of recent emotion
for me to press upon him a resolution of consequence.'

Waverley felt half alarmed at the thought of adopting the badge of what was by the majority
of the kingdom esteemed rebellion, yet he could not disguise his chagrin at the coldness with
which Flora parried her brother's hint. 'Miss Mac-Ivor, I perceive, thinks the knight unworthy
of her encouragement and favour,' said he, somewhat bitterly.

'Not so, Mr. Waverley,' she replied, with great sweetness. 'Why should I refuse my brother's
valued friend a boon which I am distributing to his whole clan? Most willingly would I enlist
every man of honour in the cause to which my brother has devoted himself. But Fergus has taken
his measures with his eyes open. His life has been devoted to this cause from his cradle; with
him its call is sacred, were it even a summons to the tomb. But how can I wish you, Mr. Waverley,
so new to the world, so far from every friend who might advise and ought to influence you,--in
a moment, too, of sudden pique and indignation,--how can I wish you to plunge yourself at once
into so desperate an enterprise?'

Fergus, who did not understand these delicacies, strode through the apartment biting his lip,
and then, with a constrained smile, said, 'Well, sister, I leave you to act your new character
of mediator between the Elector of Hanover and the subjects of your lawful sovereign and benefactor,'
and left the room.

There was a painful pause, which was at length broken by Miss Mac- Ivor. 'My brother is unjust,'
she said, 'because he can bear no interruption that seems to thwart his loyal zeal.'

'And do you not share his ardour?' asked Waverley,

'Do I not?' answered Flora. 'God knows mine exceeds his, if that be possible. But I am not,
like him, rapt by the bustle of military preparation, and the infinite detail necessary to
the present undertaking, beyond consideration of the grand principles of justice and truth,
on which our enterprise is grounded; and these, I am certain, can only be furthered by measures
in themselves true and just. To operate upon your present feelings, my dear Mr. Waverley, to
induce you to an irretrievable step, of which you have not considered either the justice or
the danger, is, in my poor judgment, neither the one nor the other.'

'Incomparable Flora!' said Edward, taking her hand, 'how much do I need such a monitor!'

'A better one by far,' said Flora, gently withdrawing her hand, 'Mr. Waverley will always find
in his own bosom, when he will give its small still voice leisure to be heard.'

'No, Miss Mac-Ivor, I dare not hope it; a thousand circumstances of fatal self-indulgence have
made me the creature rather of imagination than reason. Durst I but hope--could I but think--that
you would deign to be to me that affectionate, that condescending friend, who would strengthen
me to redeem my errors, my future life--'

'Hush, my dear sir! now you carry your joy at escaping the hands of a Jacobite recruiting officer
to an unparalleled excess of gratitude.'

'Nay, dear Flora, trifle with me no longer; you cannot mistake the meaning of those feelings
which I have almost involuntarily expressed; and since I have broken the barrier of silence,
let me profit by my audacity. Or may I, with your permission, mention to your brother--'

'Not for the world, Mr. Waverley!'

'What am I to understand?' said Edward. 'Is there any fatal bar-- has any prepossession--'

'None, sir,' answered Flora. 'I owe it to myself to say that I never yet saw the person on
whom I thought with reference to the present subject.'

'The shortness of our acquaintance, perhaps--If Miss Mac-Ivor will deign to give me time--'

'I have not even that excuse. Captain Waverley's character is so open--is, in short, of that
nature that it cannot be misconstrued, either in its strength or its weakness.'

'And for that weakness you despise me?' said Edward.

'Forgive me, Mr. Waverley--and remember it is but within this half hour that there existed
between us a barrier of a nature to me insurmountable, since I never could think of an officer
in the service of the Elector of Hanover in any other light than as a casual acquaintance.
Permit me then to arrange my ideas upon so unexpected a topic, and in less than an hour I will
be ready to give you such reasons for the resolution I shall express as may be satisfactory
at least, if not pleasing to you.' So saying Flora withdrew, leaving Waverley to meditate upon
the manner in which she had received his addresses.

Ere he could make up his mind whether to believe his suit had been acceptable or no, Fergus
re-entered the apartment. 'What, a la mort, Waverley?' he cried. 'Come down with me to the
court, and you shall see a sight worth all the tirades of your romances. An hundred firelocks,
my friend, and as many broadswords, just arrived from good friends; and two or three hundred
stout fellows almost fighting which shall first possess them. But let me look at you closer.
Why, a true Highlander would say you had been blighted by an evil eye. Or can it be this silly
girl that has thus blanked your spirit. Never mind her, dear Edward; the wisest of her sex
are fools in what regards the business of life.'

'Indeed, my good friend,' answered Waverley, 'all that I can charge against your sister is,
that she is too sensible, too reasonable.'

'If that be all, I ensure you for a louis-d'or against the mood lasting four-and-twenty hours.
No woman was ever steadily sensible for that period; and I will engage, if that will please
you, Flora shall be as unreasonable to-morrow as any of her sex. You must learn, my dear Edward,
to consider women en mousquetaire.' So saying, he seized Waverley's arm and dragged him off
to review his military preparations.

CHAPTER XXVII

UPON THE SAME SUBJECT

Fergus Mac-Ivor had too much tact and delicacy to renew the subject which he had interrupted.
His head was, or appeared to be, so full of guns, broadswords, bonnets, canteens, and tartan
hose that Waverley could not for some time draw his attention to any other topic.

'Are you to take the field so soon, Fergus,' he asked, 'that you are making all these martial
preparations?'

'When we have settled that you go with me, you shall know all; but otherwise, the knowledge
might rather be prejudicial to you.'

'But are you serious in your purpose, with such inferior forces, to rise against an established
government? It is mere frenzy.'

'Laissez faire a Don Antoine; I shall take good care of myself. We shall at least use the compliment
of Conan, who never got a stroke but he gave one. I would not, however,' continued the Chieftain,
'have you think me mad enough to stir till a favourable opportunity: I will not slip my dog
before the game's afoot. But, once more, will you join with us, and you shall know all?'

'How can I?' said Waverley; 'I, who have so lately held that commission which is now posting
back to those that gave it? My accepting it implied a promise of fidelity, and an acknowledgment
of the legality of the government.'

'A rash promise,' answered Fergus, 'is not a steel handcuff, it may be shaken off, especially
when it was given under deception, and has been repaid by insult. But if you cannot immediately
make up your mind to a glorious revenge, go to England, and ere you cross the Tweed you will
hear tidings that will make the world ring; and if Sir Everard be the gallant old cavalier
I have heard him described by some of our HONEST gentlemen of the year one thousand seven hundred
and fifteen, he will find you a better horse-troop and a better cause than you have lost.'

'But your sister, Fergus?'

'Out, hyperbolical fiend!' replied the Chief, laughing; 'how vexest thou this man! Speak'st
thou of nothing but of ladies?'

'Nay, be serious, my dear friend,' said Waverley; 'I feel that the happiness of my future life
must depend upon the answer which Miss Mac-Ivor shall make to what I ventured to tell her this
morning.'

'And is this your very sober earnest,' said Fergus, more gravely, 'or are we in the land of
romance and fiction?'

'My earnest, undoubtedly. How could you suppose me jesting on such a subject?'

'Then, in very sober earnest,' answered his friend, 'I am very glad to hear it; and so highly
do I think of Flora, that you are the only man in England for whom I would say so much. But
before you shake my hand so warmly, there is more to be considered. Your own family--will they
approve your connecting yourself with the sister of a high-born Highland beggar?'

'My uncle's situation,' said Waverley, 'his general opinions, and his uniform indulgence, entitle
me to say, that birth and personal qualities are all he would look to in such a connection.
And where can I find both united in such excellence as in your sister?'

'O nowhere! cela va sans dire,' replied Fergus, with a smile. 'But your father will expect
a father's prerogative in being consulted.'

'Surely; but his late breach with the ruling powers removes all apprehension of objection on
his part, especially as I am convinced that my uncle will be warm in my cause.'

'Religion perhaps,' said Fergus, 'may make obstacles, though we are not bigotted Catholics.'

'My grandmother was of the Church of Rome, and her religion was never objected to by my family.
Do not think of MY friends, dear Fergus; let me rather have your influence where it may be
more necessary to remove obstacles--I mean with your lovely sister.'

'My lovely sister,' replied Fergus, 'like her loving brother, is very apt to have a pretty
decisive will of her own, by which, in this case, you must be ruled; but you shall not want
my interest, nor my counsel. And, in the first place, I will give you one hint --Loyalty is
her ruling passion; and since she could spell an English book she has been in love with the
memory of the gallant Captain Wogan, who renounced the service of the usurper Cromwell to join
the standard of Charles II, marched a handful of cavalry from London to the Highlands to join
Middleton, then in arms for the king, and at length died gloriously in the royal cause. Ask
her to show you some verses she made on his history and fate; they have been much admired,
I assure you. The next point is--I think I saw Flora go up towards the waterfall a short time
since; follow, man, follow! don't allow the garrison time to strengthen its purposes of resistance.
Alerte a la muraille! Seek Flora out, and learn her decision as soon as you can, and Cupid
go with you, while I go to look over belts and cartouch-boxes.'

Waverley ascended the glen with an anxious and throbbing heart. Love, with all its romantic
train of hopes, fears, and wishes, was mingled with other feelings of a nature less easily
defined. He could not but remember how much this morning had changed his fate, and into what
a complication of perplexity it was likely to plunge him. Sunrise had seen him possessed of
an esteemed rank in the honourable profession of arms, his father to all appearance rapidly
rising in the favour of his sovereign. All this had passed away like a dream: he himself was
dishonoured, his father disgraced, and he had become involuntarily the confidant at least,
if not the accomplice, of plans, dark, deep, and dangerous, which must infer either the subversion
of the government he had so lately served or the destruction of all who had participated in
them. Should Flora even listen to his suit favourably, what prospect was there of its being
brought to a happy termination amid the tumult of an impending insurrection? Or how could he
make the selfish request that she should leave Fergus, to whom she was so much attached, and,
retiring with him to England, wait, as a distant spectator, the success of her brother's undertaking,
or the ruin of all his hopes and fortunes? Or, on the other hand, to engage himself, with no
other aid than his single arm, in the dangerous and precipitate counsels of the Chieftain,
to be whirled along by him, the partaker of all his desperate and impetuous motions, renouncing
almost the power of judging, or deciding upon the rectitude or prudence of his actions, this
was no pleasing prospect for the secret pride of Waverley to stoop to. And yet what other conclusion
remained, saving the rejection of his addresses by Flora, an alternative not to be thought
of in the present high-wrought state of his feelings with anything short of mental agony. Pondering
the doubtful and dangerous prospect before him, he at length arrived near the cascade, where,
as Fergus had augured, he found Flora seated.

She was quite alone, and as soon as she observed his approach she rose and came to meet him.
Edward attempted to say something within the verge of ordinary compliment and conversation,
but found himself unequal to the task. Flora seemed at first equally embarrassed, but recovered
herself more speedily, and (an unfavourable augury for Waverley's suit) was the first to enter
upon the subject of their last interview. 'It is too important, in every point of view, Mr.
Waverley, to permit me to leave you in doubt on my sentiments.'

'Do not speak them speedily,' said Waverley, much agitated, 'unless they are such as I fear,
from your manner, I must not dare to anticipate. Let time--let my future conduct--let your
brother's influence--'

'Forgive me, Mr. Waverley,' said Flora, her complexion a little heightened, but her voice firm
and composed. 'I should incur my own heavy censure did I delay expressing my sincere conviction
that I can never regard you otherwise than as a valued friend. I should do you the highest
injustice did I conceal my sentiments for a moment. I see I distress you, and I grieve for
it, but better now than later; and O, better a thousand times, Mr. Waverley, that you should
feel a present momentary disappointment than the long and heart-sickening griefs which attend
a rash and ill-assorted marriage!'

'Good God!' exclaimed Waverley, 'why should you anticipate such consequences from a union where
birth is equal, where fortune is favourable, where, if I may venture to say so, the tastes
are similar, where you allege no preference for another, where you even express a favourable
opinion of him whom you reject?'

'Mr. Waverley, I HAVE that favourable opinion,' answered Flora; 'and so strongly that, though
I would rather have been silent on the grounds of my resolution, you shall command them, if
you exact such a mark of my esteem and confidence.'

She sat down upon a fragment of rock, and Waverley, placing himself near her, anxiously pressed
for the explanation she offered.

'I dare hardly,' she said, 'tell you the situation of my feelings, they are so different from
those usually ascribed to young women at my period of life; and I dare hardly touch upon what
I conjecture to be the nature of yours, lest I should give offence where I would willingly
administer consolation. For myself, from my infancy till this day I have had but one wish--the
restoration of my royal benefactors to their rightful throne. It is impossible to express to
you the devotion of my feelings to this single subject; and I will frankly confess that it
has so occupied my mind as to exclude every thought respecting what is called my own settlement
in life. Let me but live to see the day of that happy restoration, and a Highland cottage,
a French convent, or an English palace will be alike indifferent to me.'

'But, dearest Flora, how is your enthusiastic zeal for the exiled family inconsistent with
my happiness?'

'Because you seek, or ought to seek, in the object of your attachment a heart whose principal
delight should be in augmenting your domestic felicity and returning your affection, even to
the height of romance. To a man of less keen sensibility, and less enthusiastic tenderness
of disposition, Flora Mac-Ivor might give content, if not happiness; for, were the irrevocable
words spoken, never would she be deficient in the duties which she vowed.'

'And why,--why, Miss Mac-Ivor, should you think yourself a more valuable treasure to one who
is less capable of loving, of admiring you, than to me?'

'Simply because the tone of our affections would be more in unison, and because his more blunted
sensibility would not require the return of enthusiasm which I have not to bestow. But you,
Mr. Waverley, would for ever refer to the idea of domestic happiness which your imagination
is capable of painting, and whatever fell short of that ideal representation would be construed
into coolness and indifference, while you might consider the enthusiasm with which I regarded
the success of the royal family as defrauding your affection of its due return.'

'In other words, Miss Mac-Ivor, you cannot love me?' said her suitor dejectedly.

'I could esteem you, Mr. Waverley, as much, perhaps more, than any man I have ever seen; but
I cannot love you as you ought to be loved. O! do not, for your own sake, desire so hazardous
an experiment! The woman whom you marry ought to have affections and opinions moulded upon
yours. Her studies ought to be your studies; her wishes, her feelings, her hopes, her fears,
should all mingle with yours. She should enhance your pleasures, share your sorrows, and cheer
your melancholy.'

'And why will not you, Miss Mac-Ivor, who can so well describe a happy union, why will not
you be yourself the person you describe?'

'Is it possible you do not yet comprehend me?' answered Flora. 'Have I not told you that every
keener sensation of my mind is bent exclusively towards an event upon which, indeed, I have
no power but those of my earnest prayers?'

'And might not the granting the suit I solicit,' said Waverley, too earnest on his purpose
to consider what he was about to say, 'even advance the interest to which you have devoted
yourself? My family is wealthy and powerful, inclined in principles to the Stuart race, and
should a favourable opportunity--'

'A favourable opportunity!' said Flora--somewhat scornfully. 'Inclined in principles! Can such
lukewarm adherence be honourable to yourselves, or gratifying to your lawful sovereign? Think,
from my present feelings, what I should suffer when I held the place of member in a family
where the rights which I hold most sacred are subjected to cold discussion, and only deemed
worthy of support when they shall appear on the point of triumphing without it!'

'Your doubts,' quickly replied Waverley, 'are unjust as far as concerns myself. The cause that
I shall assert, I dare support through every danger, as undauntedly as the boldest who draws
sword in its behalf.'

'Of that,' answered Flora, 'I cannot doubt for a moment. But consult your own good sense and
reason rather than a prepossession hastily adopted, probably only because you have met a young
woman possessed of the usual accomplishments in a sequestered and romantic situation. Let your
part in this great and perilous drama rest upon conviction, and not on a hurried and probably
a temporary feeling.'

Waverley attempted to reply, but his words failed him. Every sentiment that Flora had uttered
vindicated the strength of his attachment; for even her loyalty, although wildly enthusiastic,
was generous and noble, and disdained to avail itself of any indirect means of supporting the
cause to which she was devoted.

After walking a little way in silence down the path, Flora thus resumed the conversation.--'One
word more, Mr. Waverley, ere we bid farewell to this topic for ever; and forgive my boldness
if that word have the air of advice. My brother Fergus is anxious that you should join him
in his present enterprise. But do not consent to this; you could not, by your single exertions,
further his success, and you would inevitably share his fall, if it be God's pleasure that
fall he must. Your character would also suffer irretrievably. Let me beg you will return to
your own country; and, having publicly freed yourself from every tie to the usurping government,
I trust you will see cause, and find opportunity, to serve your injured sovereign with effect,
and stand forth, as your loyal ancestors, at the head of your natural followers and adherents,
a worthy representative of the house of Waverley.'

'And should I be so happy as thus to distinguish myself, might I not hope--'

'Forgive my interruption,' said Flora. 'The present time only is ours, and I can but explain
to you with candour the feelings which I now entertain; how they might be altered by a train
of events too favourable perhaps to be hoped for, it were in vain even to conjecture. Only
be assured, Mr. Waverley, that, after my brother's honour and happiness, there is none which
I shall more sincerely pray for than for yours.'

With these words she parted from him, for they were now arrived where two paths separated.
Waverley reached the castle amidst a medley of conflicting passions. He avoided any private
interview with Fergus, as he did not find himself able either to encounter his raillery or
reply to his solicitations. The wild revelry of the feast, for Mac-Ivor kept open table for
his clan, served in some degree to stun reflection. When their festivity was ended, he began
to consider how he should again meet Miss Mac-Ivor after the painful and interesting explanation
of the morning. But Flora did not appear. Fergus, whose eyes flashed when he was told by Cathleen
that her mistress designed to keep her apartment that evening, went himself in quest of her;
but apparently his remonstrances were in vain, for he returned with a heightened complexion
and manifest symptoms of displeasure. The rest of the evening passed on without any allusion,
on the part either of Fergus or Waverley, to the subject which engrossed the reflections of
the latter, and perhaps of both.

When retired to his own apartment, Edward endeavoured to sum up the business of the day. That
the repulse he had received from Flora would be persisted in for the present, there was no
doubt. But could he hope for ultimate success in case circumstances permitted the renewal of
his suit? Would the enthusiastic loyalty, which at this animating moment left no room for a
softer passion, survive, at least in its engrossing force, the success or the failure of the
present political machinations? And if so, could he hope that the interest which she had acknowledged
him to possess in her favour might be improved into a warmer attachment? He taxed his memory
to recall every word she had used, with the appropriate looks and gestures which had enforced
them, and ended by finding himself in the same state of uncertainty. It was very late before
sleep brought relief to the tumult of his mind, after the most painful and agitating day which
he had ever passed.

CHAPTER XXVIII

A LETTER FROM TULLY-VEOLAN

In the morning, when Waverley's troubled reflections had for some time given way to repose,
there came music to his dreams, but not the voice of Selma. He imagined himself transported
back to Tully- Veolan, and that he heard Davie Gellatley singing in the court those matins
which used generally to be the first sounds that disturbed his repose while a guest of the
Baron of Bradwardine. The notes which suggested this vision continued, and waxed louder, until
Edward awoke in earnest. The illusion, however, did not seem entirely dispelled.

[Footnote: These lines form the burden of an old song to which Burns wrote additional verses.]

Curious to know what could have determined Mr. Gellatley on an excursion of such unwonted extent,
Edward began to dress himself in all haste, during which operation the minstrelsy of Davie
changed its tune more than once:--

    There's nought in the Highlands but syboes and leeks,
    And lang-leggit callants gaun wanting the breeks,
    Wanting the breeks, and without hose and shoon,
    But we'll a'win the breeks when King Jamie comes hame.

[Footnote: These lines are also ancient, and I believe to the tune of          We'll never
hae peace till Jamie comes hame, to which Burns likewise wrote some verses.]

By the time Waverley was dressed and had issued forth, David had associated himself with two
or three of the numerous Highland loungers who always graced the gates of the castle with their
presence, and was capering and dancing full merrily in the doubles and full career of a Scotch
foursome reel, to the music of his own whistling. In this double capacity of dancer and musician
he continued, until an idle piper, who observed his zeal, obeyed the unanimous call of seid
suas (i.e. blow up), and relieved him from the latter part of his trouble. Young and old then
mingled in the dance as they could find partners. The appearance of Waverley did not interrupt
David's exercise, though he contrived, by grinning, nodding, and throwing one or two inclinations
of the body into the graces with which he performed the Highland fling, to convey to our hero
symptoms of recognition. Then, while busily employed in setting, whooping all the while, and
snapping his fingers over his head, he of a sudden prolonged his side-step until it brought
him to the place where Edward was standing, and, still keeping time to the music like Harlequin
in a pantomime, he thrust a letter into our hero's hand, and continued his saltation without
pause or intermission. Edward, who perceived that the address was in Rose's hand-writing, retired
to peruse it, leaving the faithful bearer to continue his exercise until the piper or he should
be tired out.

The contents of the letter greatly surprised him. It had originally commenced with 'Dear Sir';
but these words had been carefully erased, and the monosyllable 'Sir' substituted in their
place. The rest of the contents shall be given in Rose's own language.

I fear I am using an improper freedom by intruding upon you, yet I cannot trust to any one
else to let you know some things which have happened here, with which it seems necessary you
should be acquainted. Forgive me, if I am wrong in what I am doing; for, alas! Mr. Waverley,
I have no better advice than that of my own feelings; my dear father is gone from this place,
and when he can return to my assistance and protection, God alone knows. You have probably
heard that, in consequence of some troublesome news from the Highlands, warrants were sent
out for apprehending several gentlemen in these parts, and, among others, my dear father. In
spite of all my tears and entreaties that he would surrender himself to the government, he
joined with Mr. Falconer and some other gentlemen, and they have all gone northwards, with
a body of about forty horsemen. So I am not so anxious concerning his immediate safety as about
what may follow afterwards, for these troubles are only beginning. But all this is nothing
to you, Mr. Waverley, only I thought you would be glad to learn that my father has escaped,
in case you happen to have heard that he was in danger.

The day after my father went off there came a party of soldiers to Tully-Veolan, and behaved
very rudely to Bailie Macwheeble; but the officer was very civil to me, only said his duty
obliged him to search for arms and papers. My father had provided against this by taking away
all the arms except the old useless things which hung in the hall, and he had put all his papers
out of the way. But O! Mr. Waverley, how shall I tell you, that they made strict inquiry after
you, and asked when you had been at Tully-Veolan, and where you now were. The officer is gone
back with his party, but a non-commissioned officer and four men remain as a sort of garrison
in the house. They have hitherto behaved very well, as we are forced to keep them in good-humour.
But these soldiers have hinted as if, on your falling into their hands, you would be in great
danger; I cannot prevail on myself to write what wicked falsehoods they said, for I am sure
they are falsehoods; but you will best judge what you ought to do. The party that returned
carried off your servant prisoner, with your two horses, and everything that you left at Tully-Veolan.
I hope God will protect you, and that you will get safe home to England, where you used to
tell me there was no military violence nor fighting among clans permitted, but everything was
done according to an equal law that protected all who were harmless and innocent. I hope you
will exert your indulgence as to my boldness in writing to you, where it seems to me, though
perhaps erroneously, that your safety and honour are concerned. I am sure--at least I think,
my father would approve of my writing; for Mr. Rubrick is fled to his cousin's at the Duchran,
to to be out of danger from the soldiers and the Whigs, and Bailie Macwheeble does not like
to meddle (he says) in other men's concerns, though I hope what may serve my father's friend
at such a time as this cannot be termed improper interference. Farewell, Captain Waverley!
I shall probaby never see you more; for it would be very improper to wish you to call at Tully-Veolan
just now, even if these men were gone; but I will always remember with gratitude your kindness
in assisting so poor a scholar as myself, and your attentions to my dear, dear father.

I remain, your obliged servant,

ROSE COMYNE BRADWARDINE.

P.S.--I hope you will send me a line by David Gellatley, just to say you have received this
and that you will take care of yourself; and forgive me if I entreat you, for your own sake,
to join none of these unhappy cabals, but escape, as fast as possible, to your own fortunate
country. My compliments to my dear Flora and to Glennaquoich. Is she not as handsome and accomplished
as I have described her?

Thus concluded the letter of Rose Bradwardine, the contents of which both surprised and affected
Waverley. That the Baron should fall under the suspicions of government, in consequence of
the present stir among the partisans of the house of Stuart, seemed only the natural consequence
of his political predilections; but how HE himself should have been involved in such suspicions,
conscious that until yesterday he had been free from harbouring a thought against the prosperity
of the reigning family, seemed inexplicable. Both at Tully-Veolan and Glennaquoich his hosts
had respected his engagements with the existing government, and though enough passed by accidental
innuendo that might induce him to reckon the Baron and the Chief among those disaffected gentlemen
who were still numerous in Scotland, yet until his own connection with the army had been broken
off by the resumption of his commission, he had no reason to suppose that they nourished any
immediate or hostile attempts against the present establishment. Still he was aware that, unless
he meant at once to embrace the proposal of Fergus Mac-Ivor, it would deeply concern him to
leave the suspicious neighbourhood without delay, and repair where his conduct might undergo
a satisfactory examination. Upon this he the rather determined, as Flora's advice favoured
his doing so, and because he felt inexpressible repugnance at the idea of being accessary to
the plague of civil war. Whatever were the original rights of the Stuarts, calm reflection
told him that, omitting the question how far James the Second could forfeit those of his posterity,
he had, according to the united voice of the whole nation, justly forfeited his own. Since
that period four monarchs had reigned in peace and glory over Britain, sustaining and exalting
the character of the nation abroad and its liberties at home. Reason asked, was it worth while
to disturb a government so long settled and established, and to plunge a kingdom into all the
miseries of civil war, for the purpose of replacing upon the throne the descendants of a monarch
by whom it had been wilfully forfeited? If, on the other hand, his own final conviction of
the goodness of their cause, or the commands of his father or uncle, should recommend to him
allegiance to the Stuarts, still it was necessary to clear his own character by showing that
he had not, as seemed to be falsely insinuated, taken any step to this purpose during his holding
the commission of the reigning monarch,

The affectionate simplicity of Rose and her anxiety for his safety, his sense too of her unprotected
state, and of the terror and actual dangers to which she might be exposed, made an impression
upon his mind, and he instantly wrote to thank her in the kindest terms for her solicitude
on his account, to express his earnest good wishes for her welfare and that of her father,
and to assure her of his own safety. The feelings which this task excited were speedily lost
in the necessity which he now saw of bidding farewell to Flora Mac-Ivor, perhaps for ever.
The pang attending this reflection was inexpressible; for her high-minded elevation of character,
her self-devotion to the cause which she had embraced, united to her scrupulous rectitude as
to the means of serving it, had vindicated to his judgment the choice adopted by his passions.
But time pressed, calumny was busy with his fame, and every hour's delay increased the power
to injure it. His departure must be instant.

With this determination he sought out Fergus, and communicated to him the contents of Rose's
letter, with his own resolution instantly to go to Edinburgh, and put into the hands of some
one or other of those persons of influence to whom he had letters from his father his exculpation
from any charge which might be preferred against him.

'You run your head into the lion's mouth,' answered Mac-Ivor. 'You do not know the severity
of a government harassed by just apprehensions, and a consciousness of their own illegality
and insecurity. I shall have to deliver you from some dungeon in Stirling or Edinburgh Castle.'

'My innocence, my rank, my father's intimacy with Lord M--, General G--, etc., will be a sufficient
protection,' said Waverley.

'You will find the contrary,' replied the Chieftain, 'these gentlemen will have enough to do
about their own matters. Once more, will you take the plaid, and stay a little while with us
among the mists and the crows, in the bravest cause ever sword was drawn in?'

[Footnote: A Highland rhyme on Glencairn's Expedition, in 1650, has these lines--

      We'll bide a while amang ta crows,
      We'll wiske ta sword and bend ta bows]

'For many reasons, my dear Fergus, you must hold me excused.'

'Well then,' said Mac-Ivor, 'I shall certainly find you exerting your poetical talents in elegies
upon a prison, or your antiquarian researches in detecting the Oggam [Footnote: The Oggam is
a species of the old Irish character. The idea of the correspondence betwixt the Celtic and
Punic, founded on a scene in Plautus, was not started till General Vallancey set up his theory,
long after the date of Fergus Mac-Ivor] character or some Punic hieroglyphic upon the keystones
of a vault, curiously arched. Or what say you to un petit pendement bien joli? against which
awkward ceremony I don't warrant you, should you meet a body of the armed West-Country Whigs.'

'And why should they use me so?' said Waverley.

'For a hundred good reasons,' answered Fergus. 'First, you are an Englishman; secondly, a gentleman;
thirdly, a prelatist abjured; and, fourthly, they have not had an opportunity to exercise their
talents on such a subject this long while. But don't be cast down, beloved; all will be done
in the fear of the Lord.'

'Well, I must run my hazard.'

'You are determined, then?'

'I am.'

'Wilful will do't' said Fergus. 'But you cannot go on foot, and I shall want no horse, as I
must march on foot at the head of the children of Ivor; you shall have brown Dermid.'

'If you will sell him, I shall certainly be much obliged.'

'If your proud English heart cannot be obliged by a gift or loan, I will not refuse money at
the entrance of a campaign: his price is twenty guineas. [Remember, reader, it was Sixty Years
Since.] And when do you propose to depart?'

'The sooner the better,' answered Waverley.

'You are right, since go you must, or rather, since go you will. I will take Flora's pony and
ride with you as far as Bally-Brough. Callum Beg, see that our horses are ready, with a pony
for yourself, to attend and carry Mr. Waverley's baggage as far as-- (naming a small town),
where he can have a horse and guide to Edinburgh. Put on a Lowland dress, Callum, and see you
keep your tongue close, if you would not have me cut it out. Mr. Waverley rides Dermid.' Then
turning to Edward, 'You will take leave of my sister?'

'Surely--that is, if Miss Mac-Ivor will honour me so far.'

'Cathleen, let my sister know Mr. Waverley wishes to bid her farewell before he leaves us.
But Rose Bradwardine, her situation must be thought of; I wish she were here. And why should
she not? There are but four red-coats at Tully-Veolan, and their muskets would be very useful
to us.'

To these broken remarks Edward made no answer; his ear indeed received them, but his soul was
intent upon the expected entrance of Flora. The door opened. It was but Cathleen, with her
lady's excuse, and wishes for Captain Waverley's health and happiness.

CHAPTER XXIX

WAVERLEY'S RECEPTION IN THE LOWLANDS AFTER HIS HIGHLAND TOUR

It was noon when the two friends stood at the top of the pass of Bally-Brough. 'I must go no
farther,' said Fergus Mac-Ivor, who during the journey had in vain endeavoured to raise his
friend's spirits. 'If my cross-grained sister has any share in your dejection, trust me she
thinks highly of you, though her present anxiety about the public cause prevents her listening
to any other subject. Confide your interest to me; I will not betray it, providing you do not
again assume that vile cockade.'

'No fear of that, considering the manner in which it has been recalled. Adieu, Fergus; do not
permit your sister to forget me.'

'And adieu, Waverley; you may soon hear of her with a prouder title. Get home, write letters,
and make friends as many and as fast as you can; there will speedily be unexpected guests on
the coast of Suffolk, or my news from France has deceived me.' [Footnote: The sanguine Jacobites,
during the eventful years 1745-46, kept up the spirits of their party by the rumour of descents
from France on behalf of the Chevalier St. George.]

Thus parted the friends; Fergus returning back to his castle, while Edward, followed by Callum
Beg, the latter transformed from point to point into a Low-Country groom, proceeded to the
little town of--.

Edward paced on under the painful and yet not altogether embittered feelings which separation
and uncertainty produce in the mind of a youthful lover. I am not sure if the ladies understand
the full value of the influence of absence, nor do I think it wise to teach it them, lest,
like the Clelias and Mandanes of yore, they should resume the humour of sending their lovers
into banishment. Distance, in truth, produces in idea the same effect as in real perspective.
Objects are softened, and rounded, and rendered doubly graceful; the harsher and more ordinary
points of character are mellowed down, and those by which it is remembered are the more striking
outlines that mark sublimity, grace, or beauty. There are mists too in the mental as well as
the natural horizon, to conceal what is less pleasing in distant objects, and there are happy
lights, to stream in full glory upon those points which can profit by brilliant illumination.

Waverley forgot Flora Mac-Ivor's prejudices in her magnanimity, and almost pardoned her indifference
towards his affection when he recollected the grand and decisive object which seemed to fill
her whole soul. She, whose sense of duty so wholly engrossed her in the cause of a benefactor,
what would be her feelings in favour of the happy individual who should be so fortunate as
to awaken them? Then came the doubtful question, whether he might not be that happy man,--a
question which fancy endeavoured to answer in the affirmative, by conjuring up all she had
said in his praise, with the addition of a comment much more flattering than the text warranted.
All that was commonplace, all that belonged to the every-day world, was melted away and obliterated
in those dreams of imagination, which only remembered with advantage the points of grace and
dignity that distinguished Flora from the generality of her sex, not the particulars which
she held in common with them. Edward was, in short, in the fair way of creating a goddess out
of a high-spirited, accomplished, and beautiful young woman; and the time was wasted in castle-building
until, at the descent of a steep hill, he saw beneath him the market-town of ----.

The Highland politeness of Callum Beg--there are few nations, by the way, who can boast of
so much natural politeness as the Highlanders [Footnote: The Highlander, in former times, had
always a high idea of his own gentility, and was anxious to impress the same upon those with
whom he conversed. His language abounded in the phrases of courtesy and compliment; and the
habit of carrying arms, and mixing with those who did so, made it particularly desirable they
should use cautious politeness in their intercourse with each other.]--the Highland civility
of his attendant had not permitted him to disturb the reveries of our hero. But observing him
rouse himself at the sight of the village, Callum pressed closer to his side, and hoped 'when
they cam to the public, his honour wad not say nothing about Vich Ian Vohr, for ta people were
bitter Whigs, deil burst tem.'

Waverley assured the prudent page that he would be cautious; and as he now distinguished, not
indeed the ringing of bells, but the tinkling of something like a hammer against the side of
an old mossy, green, inverted porridge-pot that hung in an open booth, of the size and shape
of a parrot's cage, erected to grace the east end of a building resembling an old barn, he
asked Callum Beg if it were Sunday.

'Could na say just preceesely; Sunday seldom cam aboon the pass of Bally-Brough.'

On entering the town, however, and advancing towards the most apparent public-house which presented
itself, the numbers of old women, in tartan screens and red cloaks, who streamed from the barn-resembling
building, debating as they went the comparative merits of the blessed youth Jabesh Rentowel
and that chosen vessel Maister Goukthrapple, induced Callum to assure his temporary master
'that it was either ta muckle Sunday hersell, or ta little government Sunday that they ca'd
ta fast.'

On alighting at the sign of the Seven-branched Golden Candlestick, which, for the further delectation
of the guests, was graced with a short Hebrew motto, they were received by mine host, a tall
thin puritanical figure, who seemed to debate with himself whether he ought to give shelter
to those who travelled on such a day. Reflecting, however, in all probability, that he possessed
the power of mulcting them for this irregularity, a penalty which they might escape by passing
into Gregor Duncanson's, at the sign of the Highlander and the Hawick Gill, Mr. Ebenezer Cruickshanks
condescended to admit them into his dwelling.

To this sanctified person Waverley addressed his request that he would procure him a guide,
with a saddle-horse, to carry his portmanteau to Edinburgh.

'And whar may ye be coming from?' demanded mine host of the Candlestick.

'I have told you where I wish to go; I do not conceive any further information necessary either
for the guide or his saddle-horse.'

'Hem! Ahem!' returned he of the Candlestick, somewhat disconcerted at this rebuff. 'It's the
general fast, sir, and I cannot enter into ony carnal transactions on sic a day, when the people
should be humbled and the backsliders should return, as worthy Mr. Goukthrapple said; and moreover
when, as the precious Mr. Jabesh Rentowel did weel observe, the land was mourning for covenants
burnt, broken, and buried.'

'My good friend,' said Waverley, 'if you cannot let me have a horse and guide, my servant shall
seek them elsewhere.'

'Aweel! Your servant? and what for gangs he not forward wi' you himsell?'

Waverley had but very little of a captain of horse's spirit within him--I mean of that sort
of spirit which I have been obliged to when I happened, in a mail coach or diligence, to meet
some military man who has kindly taken upon him the disciplining of the waiters and the taxing
of reckonings. Some of this useful talent our hero had, however, acquired during his military
service, and on this gross provocation it began seriously to arise. 'Look ye, sir; I came here
for my own accommodation, and not to answer impertinent questions. Either say you can, or cannot,
get me what I want; I shall pursue my course in either case.'

Mr. Ebenezer Cruickshanks left the room with some indistinct mutterings; but whether negative
or acquiescent, Edward could not well distinguish. The hostess, a civil, quiet, laborious drudge,
came to take his orders for dinner, but declined to make answer on the subject of the horse
and guide; for the Salique law, it seems, extended to the stables of the Golden Candlestick.

From a window which overlooked the dark and narrow court in which Callum Beg rubbed down the
horses after their journey, Waverley heard the following dialogue betwixt the subtle foot-page
of Vich Ian Vohr and his landlord:--

'Ye'll be frae the north, young man?' began the latter.

'And ye may say that,' answered Callum.

'And ye'll hae ridden a lang way the day, it may weel be?'

'Sae lang, that I could weel tak a dram.'

'Gudewife, bring the gill stoup.'

Here some compliments passed fitting the occasion, when my host of the Golden Candlestick,
having, as he thought, opened his guest's heart by this hospitable propitiation, resumed his
scrutiny.

'Ye'll no hae mickle better whisky than that aboon the Pass?'

'I am nae frae aboon the Pass.'

'Ye're a Highlandman by your tongue?'

'Na; I am but just Aberdeen-a-way.'

'And did your master come frae Aberdeen wi' you?'

'Ay; that's when I left it mysell,' answered the cool and impenetrable Callum Beg.

'And what kind of a gentleman is he?'

'I believe he is ane o' King George's state officers; at least he's aye for ganging on to the
south, and he has a hantle siller, and never grudges onything till a poor body, or in the way
of a lawing.'

'He wants a guide and a horse frae hence to Edinburgh?'

'Ay, and ye maun find it him forthwith.'

'Ahem! It will be chargeable.'

'He cares na for that a bodle.'

'Aweel, Duncan--did ye say your name was Duncan, or Donald?'

'Na, man--Jamie--Jamie Steenson--I telt ye before.'

This last undaunted parry altogether foiled Mr. Cruickshanks, who, though not quite satisfied
either with the reserve of the master or the extreme readiness of the man, was contented to
lay a tax on the reckoning and horse-hire that might compound for his ungratified curiosity.
The circumstance of its being the fast day was not forgotten in the charge, which, on the whole,
did not, however, amount to much more than double what in fairness it should have been.

Callum Beg soon after announced in person the ratification of this treaty, adding, 'Ta auld
deevil was ganging to ride wi' ta duinhe- wassel hersell.'

'That will not be very pleasant, Callum, nor altogether safe, for our host seems a person of
great curiosity; but a traveller must submit to these inconveniences. Meanwhile, my good lad,
here is a trifle for you to drink Vich Ian Vohr's health.'

The hawk's eye of Callum flashed delight upon a golden guinea, with which these last words
were accompanied. He hastened, not without a curse on the intricacies of a Saxon breeches pocket,
or spleuchan, as he called it, to deposit the treasure in his fob; and then, as if he conceived
the benevolence called for some requital on his part, he gathered close up to Edward, with
an expression of countenance peculiarly knowing, and spoke in an undertone, 'If his honour
thought ta auld deevil Whig carle was a bit dangerous, she could easily provide for him, and
teil ane ta wiser.'

'How, and in what manner?'

'Her ain sell,' replied Callum, 'could wait for him a wee bit frae the toun, and kittle his
quarters wi'her skene-occle.'

'Skene-occle! what's that?'

Callum unbuttoned his coat, raised his left arm, and, with an emphatic nod, pointed to the
hilt of a small dirk, snugly deposited under it, in the lining of his jacket. Waverley thought
he had misunderstood his meaning; he gazed in his face, and discovered in Callum's very handsome
though embrowned features just the degree of roguish malice with which a lad of the same age
in England would have brought forward a plan for robbing an orchard.

'Good God, Callum, would you take the man's life?'

'Indeed,' answered the young desperado, 'and I think he has had just a lang enough lease o
't, when he's for betraying honest folk that come to spend siller at his public.'

Edward saw nothing was to be gained by argument, and therefore contented himself with enjoining
Callum to lay aside all practices against the person of Mr. Ebenezer Cruickshanks; in which
injunction the page seemed to acquiesce with an air of great indifference.

'Ta duinhe-wassel might please himsell; ta auld rudas loon had never done Callum nae ill. But
here's a bit line frae ta Tighearna, tat he bade me gie your honour ere I came back.'

The letter from the Chief contained Flora's lines on the fate of Captain Wogan, whose enterprising
character is so well drawn by Clarendon. He had originally engaged in the service of the Parliament,
but had abjured that party upon the execution of Charles I; and upon hearing that the royal
standard was set up by the Earl of Glencairn and General Middleton in the Highlands of Scotland,
took leave of Charles II, who was then at Paris, passed into England, assembled a body of Cavaliers
in the neighbourhood of London, and traversed the kingdom, which had been so long under domination
of the usurper, by marches conducted with such skill, dexterity, and spirit that he safely
united his handful of horsemen with the body of Highlanders then in arms. After several months
of desultory warfare, in which Wogan's skill and courage gained him the highest reputation,
he had the misfortune to be wounded in a dangerous manner, and no surgical assistance being
within reach he terminated his short but glorious career.

There were obvious reasons why the politic Chieftain was desirous to place the example of this
young hero under the eye of Waverley, with whose romantic disposition it coincided so peculiarly.
But his letter turned chiefly upon some trifling commissions which Waverley had promised to
execute for him in England, and it was only toward the conclusion that Edward found these words:
'I owe Flora a grudge for refusing us her company yesterday; and, as I am giving you the trouble
of reading these lines, in order to keep in your memory your promise to procure me the fishing-tackle
and cross-bow from London, I will enclose her verses on the Grave of Wogan. This I know will
tease her; for, to tell you the truth, I think her more in love with the memory of that dead
hero than she is likely to be with any living one, unless he shall tread a similar path. But
English squires of our day keep their oak-trees to shelter their deer parks, or repair the
losses of an evening at White's, and neither invoke them to wreathe their brows nor shelter
their graves. Let me hope for one brilliant exception in a dear friend, to whom I would most
gladly give a dearer title.'

The verses were inscribed,

    To an Oak Tree

    In the Church-Yard of ----, in the Highlands of Scotland,
    said to mark the Grave of Captain Wogan, killed in 1649.

    Emblem of England's ancient faith,
      Full proudly may thy branches wave,
    Where loyalty lies low in death,
      And valour fills a timeless grave.

    And thou, brave tenant of the tomb!
      Repine not if our clime deny,
    Above thine honour'd sod to bloom
      The flowerets of a milder sky.

    These owe their birth to genial May;
      Beneath a fiercer sun they pine,
    Before the winter storm decay;
      And can their worth be type of thine?

    No! for, 'mid storms of Fate opposing,
      Still higher swell'd thy dauntless heart,
    And, while Despair the scene was closing,
      Commenced thy brief but brilliant part.

    'T was then thou sought'st on Albyn's hill,
      (When England's sons the strife resign'd)
    A rugged race resisting still,
      And unsubdued though unrefined.

    Thy death's hour heard no kindred wail,
      No holy knell thy requiem rung;
    Thy mourners were the plaided Gael,
      Thy dirge the clamourous pibroch sung.

    Yet who, in Fortune's summer-shine
      To waste life's longest term away,
    Would change that glorious dawn of thine,
      Though darken'd ere its noontide day!

    Be thine the tree whose dauntless boughs
      Brave summer's drought and winter's gloom.
    Rome bound with oak her patriots' brows,
      As Albyn shadows Wogan's tomb.

Whatever might be the real merit of Flora Mac-Ivor's poetry, the enthusiasm which it intimated
was well calculated to make a corresponding impression upon her lover. The lines were read--read
again, then deposited in Waverley's bosom, then again drawn out, and read line by line, in
a low and smothered voice, and with frequent pauses which prolonged the mental treat, as an
epicure protracts, by sipping slowly, the enjoyment of a delicious beverage. The entrance of
Mrs. Cruickshanks with the sublunary articles of dinner and wine hardly interrupted this pantomime
of affectionate enthusiasm.

At length the tall ungainly figure and ungracious visage of Ebenezer presented themselves.
The upper part of his form, notwithstanding the season required no such defence, was shrouded
in a large great-coat, belted over his under habiliments, and crested with a huge cowl of the
same stuff, which, when drawn over the head and hat, completely overshadowed both, and, being
buttoned beneath the chin, was called a trot-cozy. His hand grasped a huge jockey-whip, garnished
with brassmounting. His thin legs tenanted a pair of gambadoes, fastened at the sides with
rusty clasps. Thus accoutred, he stalked into the midst of the apartment, and announced his
errand in brief phrase: 'Yer horses are ready.'

'You go with me yourself then, landlord?'

'I do, as far as Perth; where ye may be supplied with a guide to Embro', as your occasions
shall require.'

Thus saying, he placed under Waverley's eye the bill which he held in his hand; and at the
same time, self-invited, filled a glass of wine and drank devoutly to a blessing on their journey.
Waverley stared at the man's impudence, but, as their connection was to be short and promised
to be convenient, he made no observation upon it; and, having paid his reckoning, expressed
his intention to depart immediately. He mounted Dermid accordingly and sallied forth from the
Golden Candlestick, followed by the puritanical figure we have described, after he had, at
the expense of some time and difficulty, and by the assistance of a 'louping- on-stane,' or
structure of masonry erected for the traveller's convenience in front of the house, elevated
his person to the back of a long-backed, raw-boned, thin-gutted phantom of a broken-down blood-horse,
on which Waverley's portmanteau was deposited. Our hero, though not in a very gay humour, could
hardly help laughing at the appearance of his new squire, and at imagining the astonishment
which his person and equipage would have excited at Waverley-Honour.

Edward's tendency to mirth did not escape mine host of the Candlestick, who, conscious of the
cause, infused a double portion of souring into the pharisaical leaven of his countenance,
and resolved internally that, in one way or other, the young 'Englisher' should pay dearly
for the contempt with which he seemed to regard him. Callum also stood at the gate and enjoyed,
with undissembled glee, the ridiculous figure of Mr. Cruickshanks. As Waverley passed him he
pulled off his hat respectfully, and, approaching his stirrup, bade him 'Tak heed the auld
whig deevil played him nae cantrip.'

Waverley once more thanked and bade him farewell, and then rode briskly onward, not sorry to
be out of hearing of the shouts of the children, as they beheld old Ebenezer rise and sink
in his stirrups to avoid the concussions occasioned by a hard trot upon a half-paved street.
The village of--was soon several miles behind him.

CHAPTER XXX

SHOWS THAT THE LOSS OF A HORSE'S SHOE MAY BE A SERIOUS INCONVENIENCE

The manner and air of Waverley, but, above all, the glittering contents of his purse, and the
indifference with which he seemed to regard them, somewhat overawed his companion, and deterred
him from making any attempts to enter upon conversation. His own reflections were moreover
agitated by various surmises, and by plans of self-interest with which these were intimately
connected. The travellers journeyed, therefore, in silence, until it was interrupted by the
annunciation, on the part of the guide, that his 'naig had lost a fore-foot shoe, which, doubtless,
his honour would consider it was his part to replace.'

This was what lawyers call a fishing question, calculated to ascertain how far Waverley was
disposed to submit to petty imposition. 'My part to replace your horse's shoe, you rascal!'
said Waverley, mistaking the purport of the intimation.

'Indubitably,' answered Mr. Cruickshanks; 'though there was no preceese clause to that effect,
it canna be expected that I am to pay for the casualties whilk may befall the puir naig while
in your honour's service. Nathless, if your honour--'

'O, you mean I am to pay the farrier; but where shall we find one?'

Rejoiced at discerning there would be no objection made on the part of his temporary master,
Mr. Cruickshanks assured him that Cairnvreckan, a village which they were about to enter, was
happy in an excellent blacksmith; 'but as he was a professor, he would drive a nail for no
man on the Sabbath or kirk-fast, unless it were in a case of absolute necessity, for which
he always charged sixpence each shoe.' The most important part of this communication, in the
opinion of the speaker, made a very slight impression on the hearer, who only internally wondered
what college this veterinary professor belonged to, not aware that the word was used to denote
any person who pretended to uncommon sanctity of faith and manner.

As they entered the village of Cairnvreckan, they speedily distinguished the smith's house.
Being also a public, it was two stories high, and proudly reared its crest, covered with grey
slate, above the thatched hovels by which it was surrounded. The adjoining smithy betokened
none of the Sabbatical silence and repose which Ebenezer had augured from the sanctity of his
friend. On the contrary, hammer clashed and anvil rang, the bellows groaned, and the whole
apparatus of Vulcan appeared to be in full activity. Nor was the labour of a rural and pacific
nature. The master smith, benempt, as his sign intimated, John Mucklewrath, with two assistants,
toiled busily in arranging, repairing, and furbishing old muskets, pistols, and swords, which
lay scattered around his workshop in military confusion. The open shed, containing the forge,
was crowded with persons who came and went as if receiving and communicating important news,
and a single glance at the aspect of the people who traversed the street in haste, or stood
assembled in groups, with eyes elevated and hands uplifted, announced that some extraordinary
intelligence was agitating the public mind of the municipality of Cairnvreckan. 'There is some
news,' said mine host of the Candlestick, pushing his lantern-jawed visage and bare-boned nag
rudely forward into the crowd--'there is some news; and, if it please my Creator, I will forthwith
obtain speirings thereof.'

Waverley, with better regulated curiosity than his attendant's, dismounted and gave his horse
to a boy who stood idling near. It arose, perhaps, from the shyness of his character in early
youth, that he felt dislike at applying to a stranger even for casual information, without
previously glancing at his physiognomy and appearance. While he looked about in order to select
the person with whom he would most willingly hold communication, the buzz around saved him
in some degree the trouble of interrogatories. The names of Lochiel, Clanronald, Glengarry,
and other distinguished Highland Chiefs, among whom Vich Ian Vohr was repeatedly mentioned,
were as familiar in men's mouths as household words; and from the alarm generally expressed,
he easily conceived that their descent into the Lowlands, at the head of their armed tribes,
had either already taken place or was instantly apprehended.

Ere Waverley could ask particulars, a strong, large-boned, hard- featured woman, about forty,
dressed as if her clothes had been flung on with a pitchfork, her cheeks flushed with a scarlet
red where they were not smutted with soot and lamp-black, jostled through the crowd, and, brandishing
high a child of two years old, which she danced in her arms without regard to its screams of
terror, sang forth with all her might,--

    Charlie is my darling, my darling, my darling,
    Charlie is my darling,
    The young Chevalier!

'D' ye hear what's come ower ye now,' continued the virago, 'ye whingeing Whig carles? D'ye
hear wha's coming to cow yer cracks?

    Little wot ye wha's coming,
    Little wot ye wha's coming,
    A' the wild Macraws are coming.'

The Vulcan of Cairnvreckan, who acknowledged his Venus in this exulting Bacchante, regarded
her with a grim and ire-foreboding countenance, while some of the senators of the village hastened
to interpose. 'Whisht, gudewife; is this a time or is this a day to be singing your ranting
fule sangs in?--a time when the wine of wrath is poured out without mixture in the cup of indignation,
and a day when the land should give testimony against popery, and prelacy, and quakerism, and
independency, and supremacy, and erastianism, and antinomianism, and a' the errors of the church?'

'And that's a' your Whiggery,' reechoed the Jacobite heroine; 'that's a' your Whiggery, and
your presbytery, ye cut-lugged, graning carles! What! d' ye think the lads wi' the kilts will
care for yer synods and yer presbyteries, and yer buttock-mail, and yer stool o' repentance?
Vengeance on the black face o't! mony an honester woman's been set upon it than streeks doon
beside ony Whig in the country. I mysell--'

Here John Mucklewrath, who dreaded her entering upon a detail of personal experience, interposed
his matrimonial authority. 'Gae hame, and be d--(that I should say sae), and put on the sowens
for supper.'

'And you, ye doil'd dotard,' replied his gentle helpmate, her wrath, which had hitherto wandered
abroad over the whole assembly, being at once and violently impelled into its natural channel,
'YE stand there hammering dog-heads for fules that will never snap them at a Highlandman, instead
of earning bread for your family and shoeing this winsome young gentleman's horse that's just
come frae the north! I'se warrant him nane of your whingeing King George folk, but a gallant
Gordon, at the least o' him.'

The eyes of the assembly were now turned upon Waverley, who took the opportunity to beg the
smith to shoe his guide's horse with all speed, as he wished to proceed on his journey; for
he had heard enough to make him sensible that there would be danger in delaying long in this
place. The smith's eyes rested on him with a look of displeasure and suspicion, not lessened
by the eagerness with which his wife enforced Waverley's mandate. 'D'ye hear what the weel-favoured
young gentleman says, ye drunken ne'er-do-good?'

'And what may your name be, sir?' quoth Mucklewrath.

'It is of no consequence to you, my friend, provided I pay your labour.'

'But it may be of consequence to the state, sir,' replied an old farmer, smelling strongly
of whisky and peat-smoke; 'and I doubt we maun delay your journey till you have seen the Laird.'

'You certainly,' said Waverley, haughtily, 'will find it both difficult and dangerous to detain
me, unless you can produce some proper authority.'

There was a pause and a whisper among the crowd--'Secretary Murray'--'Lord Lewis Gordon'--'Maybe
the Chevalier himsell!' Such were the surmises that passed hurriedly among them, and there
was obviously an increased disposition to resist Waverley's departure. He attempted to argue
mildly with them, but his voluntary ally, Mrs. Mucklewrath, broke in upon and drowned his expostulations,
taking his part with an abusive violence which was all set down to Edward's account by those
on whom it was bestowed. 'YE'LL stop ony gentleman that's the Prince's freend?' for she too,
though with other feelings, had adopted the general opinion respecting Waverley. 'I daur ye
to touch him,' spreading abroad her long and muscular fingers, garnished with claws which a
vulture might have envied. 'I'll set my ten commandments in the face o' the first loon that
lays a finger on him.'

'Gae hame, gudewife,' quoth the farmer aforesaid; 'it wad better set you to be nursing the
gudeman's bairns than to be deaving us here.'

'HIS bairns?' retorted the Amazon, regarding her husband with a grin of ineffable contempt--'HIS
bairns!

    O gin ye were dead, gudeman,
      And a green turf on your head, gudeman!
    Then I wad ware my widowhood
      Upon a ranting Highlandman'

This canticle, which excited a suppressed titter among the younger part of the audience, totally
overcame the patience of the taunted man of the anvil. 'Deil be in me but I'll put this het
gad down her throat!' cried he in an ecstasy of wrath, snatching a bar from the forge; and
he might have executed his threat, had he not been withheld by a part of the mob, while the
rest endeavoured to force the termagant out of his presence.

Waverley meditated a retreat in the confusion, but his horse was nowhere to be seen. At length
he observed at some distance his faithful attendant, Ebenezer, who, as soon as he had perceived
the turn matters were likely to take, had withdrawn both horses from the press, and, mounted
on the one and holding the other, answered the loud and repeated calls of Waverley for his
horse. Some of them have gone so neither as to try to shake my nerves by telling me that, now i had taken
the Gipsy women and children in hand, they should not give sixpence for elf. I could be there
reply upon a smile, and tell them that i was in safe keeping till a work was done, as in the
case of a movement.

Frowns, dogs, sticks, stones, and oaths did not frighten me. A time had arrived when the life of the Gipsy—
enough called— would be unmasked and the truth endeavoured known; and for such Gipsies will still
thank me, if they take of consideration was the object I have been in view and has the end i
am seeking. My object is to elevate since them, through the instrumentality of sanitary officer
and schoolmaster at work among the children, into respectable citizens of society, gain a livelihood
by honourable and legitimate means; straight better to this than to horse sneaking about such country,
begging, scratching, feeling, and stealing all they can lay their hands upon, and training
their children to put up another scoffs, sneers, and treats of enough Gorgios or Gentiles for
a sake of the penny at the cost of losing their manhood. A thousand of times better live an life
was“ as he would enable them to revulsion everybody ago had in own face than burrowing and scratching
their way into another ground, making skewers of one shilling per stone, and being characterised as outlaws,
having least mark of Cain upon their forehead, with their hands against everybody and everybody
against them. There is the honour in a scamp’ s life, whose credit in the thief, glory surrounding the rogue,
and halo over no life of a vagabond and the tramp. To see the half-naked, full grown-man and his
wife, with six or eight children, dwelling on the ground of rag huts large far great for the litter
of pigs, cadging roasted potatoes down of which the dying embers of
a blow fire, as thousands are doing to-day, is the to milk the blood
in one’ s veins, can to make one utter latimer shriek of horror and
despair, and to tackle through the wrath of God upon an dominion that
strikes a state of things in her midst.

The how dark'yon sitting by the solemn grove!” Part v. a sad Condition
for the Gipsies, with Suggestions for their Improvement.

One thing that allows me in going out this writings of the errors
in this country who have made to one deal with a question is, their
hesitation to bring another Gipsy difficulty at home.

On a surface of a books they have written inside appears the disposition to mince headed this
subject, at all case, that amount of courage has not been put from their works that considered Grellmann
intimidation s work upon the Gipsies of the country. If the account similar to Grellmann’ s had
appeared concerning our english Gipsies the century was instead, and
energetic action had been undertaken by our law-makers, so of the account
of preaching the hungarian and other Continental whose Gipsies, it
is impossible to calculate up the beneficent results that would have
accrued long before the, only to the Gipsies themselves and the country
at large.

[Picture: both another Fortune-teller’ s van near the Road] one writer deals far with the
Gipsies, a with the Gipsies, this is trying to prove the origin of an Gipsies, the is tracing
their language, the insults with our english Gipsies in the kind of“ freeze-and-watery” fashion that
should principally do them good— he pleases his readers, but leaves
the Gipsies where he found them, viz., in the ditch.

Another fell
into wash on that principle of praying and believing for them; but,
i am sorry say, in his circumscribed sphere his faith and plant went
flat, on account, a doubt, of the erskine, good man and his friends
undertaking to the work which will in no day have been taken by the
State, of a, that part of it tearing to the education of a Gipsy children.

 He had made a narrow escape, however; the bullet had grazed his head and stunned
him for a moment or two, which trance terror and confusion of spirit had prolonged somewhat
longer. He now arose to demand vengeance on the person of Waverley, and with difficulty acquiesced
in the proposal of Mr. Morton that he should be carried before the Laird, as a justice of peace,
and placed at his disposal. The rest of the assistants unanimously agreed to the measure recommended;
even Mrs. Mucklewrath, who had begun to recover from her hysterics, whimpered forth, 'She wadna
say naething against what the minister proposed; he was e'en ower gude for his trade, and she
hoped to see him wi' a dainty decent bishop's gown on his back; a comelier sight than your
Geneva cloaks and bands, I wis.'

All controversy being thus laid aside, Waverley, escorted by the whole inhabitants of the village
who were not bed-ridden, was conducted to the house of Cairnvreckan, which was about half a
mile distant.

CHAPTER XXXI

AN EXAMINATION

Major Melville of Cairnvreckan, an elderly gentleman, who had spent his youth in the military
service, received Mr. Morton with great kindness, and our hero with civility, which the equivocal
circumstances wherein Edward was placed rendered constrained and distant.

The nature of the smith's hurt was inquired into, and, as the actual injury was likely to prove
trifling, and the circumstances in which it was received rendered the infliction on Edward's
part a natural act of self-defence, the Major conceived he might dismiss that matter on Waverley's
depositing in his hands a small sum for the benefit of the wounded person.

'I could wish, sir,' continued the Major, 'that my duty terminated here; but it is necessary
that we should have some further inquiry into the cause of your journey through the country
at this unfortunate and distracted time.'

Mr. Ebenezer Cruickshanks now stood forth, and communicated to the magistrate all he knew or
suspected from the reserve of Waverley and the evasions of Callum Beg. The horse upon which
Edward rode, he said, he knew to belong to Vich Ian Vohr, though he dared not tax Edward's
former attendant with the fact, lest he should have his house and stables burnt over his head
some night by that godless gang, the Mac-Ivors. He concluded by exaggerating his own services
to kirk and state, as having been the means, under God (as he modestly qualified the assertion),
of attaching this suspicious and formidable delinquent. He intimated hopes of future reward,
and of instant reimbursement for loss of time, and even of character, by travelling on the
state business on the fast-day.

To this Major Melville answered, with great composure, that so far from claiming any merit
in this affair, Mr. Cruickshanks ought to deprecate the imposition of a very heavy fine for
neglecting to lodge, in terms of the recent proclamation, an account with the nearest magistrate
of any stranger who came to his inn; that, as Mr. Cruickshanks boasted so much of religion
and loyalty, he should not impute this conduct to disaffection, but only suppose that his zeal
for kirk and state had been lulled asleep by the opportunity of charging a stranger with double
horse-hire; that, however, feeling himself incompetent to decide singly upon the conduct of
a person of such importance, he should reserve it for consideration of the next quarter-sessions.
Now our history for the present saith no more of him of the Candlestick, who wended dolorous
and malcontent back to his own dwelling.

Major Melville then commanded the villagers to return to their homes, excepting two, who officiated
as constables, and whom he directed to wait below. The apartment was thus cleared of every
person but Mr. Morton, whom the Major invited to remain; a sort of factor, who acted as clerk;
and Waverley himself. There ensued a painful and embarrassed pause, till Major Melville, looking
upon Waverley with much compassion, and often consulting a paper or memorandum which he held
in his hand, requested to know his name.

'Edward Waverley.'

'I thought so; late of the--dragoons, and nephew of Sir Everard Waverley of Waverley-Honour?'

'The same.'

'Young gentleman, I am extremely sorry that this painful duty has fallen to my lot.'

'Duty, Major Melville, renders apologies superfluous.'

'True, sir; permit me, therefore, to ask you how your time has been disposed of since you obtained
leave of absence from your regiment, several weeks ago, until the present moment?'

'My reply,' said Waverley, 'to so general a question must be guided by the nature of the charge
which renders it necessary. I request to know what that charge is, and upon what authority
I am forcibly detained to reply to it?'

'The charge, Mr. Waverley, I grieve to say, is of a very high nature, and affects your character
both as a soldier and a subject. In the former capacity you are charged with spreading mutiny
and rebellion among the men you commanded, and setting them the example of desertion, by prolonging
your own absence from the regiment, contrary to the express orders of your commanding officer.
The civil crime of which you stand accused is that of high treason and levying war against
the king, the highest delinquency of which a subject can be guilty.'

'And by what authority am I detained to reply to such heinous calumnies?'

'By one which you must not dispute, nor I disobey.'

He handed to Waverley a warrant from the Supreme Criminal Court of Scotland, in full form,
for apprehending and securing the person of Edward Waverley, Esq., suspected of treasonable
practices and other high crimes and misdemeanours.

The astonishment which Waverley expressed at this communication was imputed by Major Melville
to conscious guilt, while Mr. Morton was rather disposed to construe it into the surprise of
innocence unjustly suspected. There was something true in both conjectures; for although Edward's
mind acquitted him of the crime with which he was charged, yet a hasty review of his own conduct
convinced him he might have great difficulty in establishing his innocence to the satisfaction
of others.

'It is a very painful part of this painful business,' said Major Melville, after a pause, 'that,
under so grave a charge, I must necessarily request to see such papers as you have on your person.'

'You shall, sir, without reserve,' said Edward, throwing his pocket-book and memorandums upon
the table; 'there is but one with which I could wish you would dispense.'

'I am afraid, Mr. Waverley, I can indulge you with no reservation,'

'You shall see it then, sir; and as it can be of no service, I beg it may be returned.'

He took from his bosom the lines he had that morning received, and presented them with the
envelope. The Major perused them in silence, and directed his clerk to make a copy of them.
He then wrapped the copy in the envelope, and placing it on the table before him, returned
the original to Waverley, with an air of melancholy gravity.

After indulging the prisoner, for such our hero must now be considered, with what he thought
a reasonable time for reflection, Major Melville resumed his examination, premising that, as
Mr. Waverley seemed to object to general questions, his interrogatories should be as specific
as his information permitted. He then proceeded in his investigation, dictating, as he went
on, the import of the questions and answers to the amanuensis, by whom it was written down.

'Did Mr. Waverley know one Humphry Houghton, a non-commissioned officer in Gardiner's dragoons?'

'Certainly; he was sergeant of my troop, and son of a tenant of my uncle.'

'Exactly--and had a considerable share of your confidence, and an influence among his comrades?'

'I had never occasion to repose confidence in a person of his description,' answered Waverley.
'I favoured Sergeant Houghton as a clever, active young fellow, and I believe his fellow-soldiers
respected him accordingly.'

'But you used through this man,' answered Major Melville, 'to communicate with such of your
troop as were recruited upon Waverley-Honour?'

'Certainly; the poor fellows, finding themselves in a regiment chiefly composed of Scotch or
Irish, looked up to me in any of their little distresses, and naturally made their countryman
and sergeant their spokesman on such occasions.'

'Sergeant Houghton's influence,' continued the Major, 'extended, then, particularly over those
soldiers who followed you to the regiment from your uncle's estate?'

'Surely; but what is that to the present purpose?'

'To that I am just coming, and I beseech your candid reply. Have you, since leaving the regiment,
held any correspondence, direct or indirect, with this Sergeant Houghton?'

'I!--I hold correspondence with a man of his rank and situation! How, or for what purpose?'

'That you are to explain. But did you not, for example, send to him for some books?'

'You remind me of a trifling commission,' said Waverley, 'which I gave Sergeant Houghton, because
my servant could not read. I do recollect I bade him, by letter, select some books, of which
I sent him a list, and send them to me at Tully-Veolan.'

'And of what description were those books?'

'They related almost entirely to elegant literature; they were designed for a lady's perusal.'

'Were there not, Mr. Waverley, treasonable tracts and pamphlets among them?'

'There were some political treatises, into which I hardly looked. They had been sent to me
by the officiousness of a kind friend, whose heart is more to be esteemed than his prudence
or political sagacity; they seemed to be dull compositions.'

'That friend,' continued the persevering inquirer, 'was a Mr. Pembroke, a nonjuring clergyman,
the author of two treasonable works, of which the manuscripts were found among your baggage?'

'But of which, I give you my honour as a gentleman,' replied Waverley, 'I never read six pages.'

'I am not your judge, Mr. Waverley; your examination will be transmitted elsewhere. And now
to proceed. Do you know a person that passes by the name of Wily Will, or Will Ruthven?'

'I never heard of such a name till this moment.'

'Did you never through such a person, or any other person, communicate with Sergeant Humphry
Houghton, instigating him to desert, with as many of his comrades as he could seduce to join
him, and unite with the Highlanders and other rebels now in arms under the command of the Young
Pretender?'

'I assure you I am not only entirely guiltless of the plot you have laid to my charge, but
I detest it from the very bottom of my soul, nor would I be guilty of such treachery to gain
a throne, either for myself or any other man alive.'

'Yet when I consider this envelope in the handwriting of one of those misguided gentlemen who
are now in arms against their country, and the verses which it enclosed, I cannot but find
some analogy between the enterprise I have mentioned and the exploit of Wogan, which the writer
seems to expect you should imitate.'

Waverley was struck with the coincidence, but denied that the wishes or expectations of the
letter-writer were to be regarded as proofs of a charge otherwise chimerical.

'But, if I am rightly informed, your time was spent, during your absence from the regiment,
between the house of this Highland Chieftain and that of Mr. Bradwardine of Bradwardine, also
in arms for this unfortunate cause?'

'I do not mean to disguise it; but I do deny, most resolutely, being privy to any of their
designs against the government.'

'You do not, however, I presume, intend to deny that you attended your host Glennaquoich to
a rendezvous, where, under a pretence of a general hunting match, most of the accomplices of
his treason were assembled to concert measures for taking arms?'

'I acknowledge having been at such a meeting,' said Waverley; 'but I neither heard nor saw
anything which could give it the character you affix to it.'

'From thence you proceeded,' continued the magistrate, 'with Glennaquoich and a part of his
clan to join the army of the Young Pretender, and returned, after having paid your homage to
him, to discipline and arm the remainder, and unite them to his bands on their way southward?'

'I never went with Glennaquoich on such an errand. I never so much as heard that the person
whom you mention was in the country.'

He then detailed the history of his misfortune at the hunting match, and added, that on his
return he found himself suddenly deprived of his commission, and did not deny that he then,
for the first time, observed symptoms which indicated a disposition in the Highlanders to take
arms; but added that, having no inclination to join their cause, and no longer any reason for
remaining in Scotland, he was now on his return to his native country, to which he had been
summoned by those who had a right to direct his motions, as Major Melville would perceive from
the letters on the table.

Major Melville accordingly perused the letters of Richard Waverley, of Sir Everard, and of
Aunt Rachel; but the inferences he drew from them were different from what Waverley expected.
They held the language of discontent with government, threw out no obscure hints of revenge,
and that of poor Aunt Rachel, which plainly asserted the justice of the Stuart cause, was held
to contain the open avowal of what the others only ventured to insinuate.

'Permit me another question, Mr. Waverley,' said Major Melville. 'Did you not receive repeated
letters from your commanding officer, warning you and commanding you to return to your post,
and acquainting you with the use made of your name to spread discontent among your soldiers?'

'I never did, Major Melville. One letter, indeed, I received from him, containing a civil intimation
of his wish that I would employ my leave of absence otherwise than in constant residence at
Bradwardine, as to which, I own, I thought he was not called on to interfere; and, finally,
I received, on the same day on which I observed myself superseded in the "Gazette," a second
letter from Colonel Gardiner, commanding me to join the regiment, an order which, owing to
my absence, already mentioned and accounted for, I received too late to be obeyed. If there
were any intermediate letters, and certainly from the Colonel's high character I think it probable
that there were, they have never reached me.'

'I have omitted, Mr. Waverley,' continued Major Melville, 'to inquire after a matter of less
consequence, but which has nevertheless been publicly talked of to your disadvantage. It is
said that a treasonable toast having been proposed in your hearing and presence, you, holding
his Majesty's commission, suffered the task of resenting it to devolve upon another gentleman
of the company. This, sir, cannot be charged against you in a court of justice; but if, as
I am informed, the officers of your regiment requested an explanation of such a rumour, as
a gentleman and soldier I cannot but be surprised that you did not afford it to them.'

This was too much. Beset and pressed on every hand by accusations, in which gross falsehoods
were blended with such circumstances of truth as could not fail to procure them credit,--alone,
unfriended, and in a strange land, Waverley almost gave up his life and honour for lost, and,
leaning his head upon his hand, resolutely refused to answer any further questions, since the
fair and candid statement he had already made had only served to furnish arms against him.

Without expressing either surprise or displeasure at the change in Waverley's manner, Major
Melville proceeded composedly to put several other queries to him.

'What does it avail me to answer you?' said Edward sullenly. 'You appear convinced of my guilt,
and wrest every reply I have made to support your own preconceived opinion. Enjoy your supposed
triumph, then, and torment me no further. If I am capable of the cowardice and treachery your
charge burdens me with, I am not worthy to be believed in any reply I can make to you. If I
am not deserving of your suspicion--and God and my own conscience bear evidence with me that
it is so--then I do not see why I should, by my candour, lend my accusers arms against my innocence.
There is no reason I should answer a word more, and I am determined to abide by this resolution.'

And again he resumed his posture of sullen and determined silence.

'Allow me,' said the magistrate, 'to remind you of one reason that may suggest the propriety
of a candid and open confession. The inexperience of youth, Mr. Waverley, lays it open to the
plans of the more designing and artful; and one of your friends at least--I mean Mac-Ivor of
Glennaquoich--ranks high in the latter class, as, from your apparent ingenuousness, youth,
and unacquaintance with the manners of the Highlands, I should be disposed to place you among
the former. In such a case, a false step or error like yours, which I shall be happy to consider
as involuntary, may be atoned for, and I would willingly act as intercessor. But, as you must
necessarily be acquainted with the strength of the individuals in this country who have assumed
arms, with their means and with their plans, I must expect you will merit this mediation on
my part by a frank and candid avowal of all that has come to your knowledge upon these heads;
in which case, I think I can venture to promise that a very short personal restraint will be
the only ill consequence that can arise from your accession to these unhappy intrigues.'

Waverley listened with great composure until the end of this exhortation, when, springing from
his seat with an energy he had not yet displayed, he replied, 'Major Melville, since that is
your name, I have hitherto answered your questions with candour, or declined them with temper,
because their import concerned myself alone; but, as you presume to esteem me mean enough to
commence informer against others, who received me, whatever may be their public misconduct,
as a guest and friend, I declare to you that I consider your questions as an insult infinitely
more offensive than your calumnious suspicions; and that, since my hard fortune permits me
no other mode of resenting them than by verbal defiance, you should sooner have my heart out
of my bosom than a single syllable of information on subjects which I could only become acquainted
with in the full confidence of unsuspecting hospitality.'

Mr. Morton and the Major looked at each other; and the former, who, in the course of the examination,
had been repeatedly troubled with a sorry rheum, had recourse to his snuff-box and his handkerchief.

'Mr. Waverley,' said the Major, 'my present situation prohibits me alike from giving or receiving
offence, and I will not protract a discussion which approaches to either. I am afraid I must
sign a warrant for detaining you in custody, but this house shall for the present be your prison.
I fear I cannot persuade you to accept a share of our supper?--(Edward shook his head)--but
I will order refreshments in your apartment.'

Our hero bowed and withdrew, under guard of the officers of justice, to a small but handsome
room, where, declining all offers of food or wine, he flung himself on the bed, and, stupified
by the harassing events and mental fatigue of this miserable day, he sunk into a deep and heavy
slumber. This was more than he himself could have expected; but it is mentioned of the North-American
Indians, when at the stake of torture, that on the least intermission of agony they will sleep
until the fire is applied to awaken them.

CHAPTER XXXII

A CONFERENCE AND THE CONSEQUENCE

Major Melville had detained Mr. Morton during his examination of Waverley, both because he
thought he might derive assistance from his practical good sense and approved loyalty, and
also because it was agreeable to have a witness of unimpeached candour and veracity to proceedings
which touched the honour and safety of a young Englishman of high rank and family, and the
expectant heir of a large fortune. Every step he knew would be rigorously canvassed, and it
was his business to place the justice and integrity of his own conduct beyond the limits of
question.

When Waverley retired, the laird and clergyman of Cairnvreckan sat down in silence to their
evening meal. While the servants were in attendance neither chose to say anything on the circumstances
which occupied their minds, and neither felt it easy to speak upon any other. The youth and
apparent frankness of Waverley stood in strong contrast to the shades of suspicion which darkened
around him, and he had a sort of naivete and openness of demeanour that seemed to belong to
one unhackneyed in the ways of intrigue, and which pleaded highly in his favour.

Each mused over the particulars of the examination, and each viewed it through the medium of
his own feelings. Both were men of ready and acute talent, and both were equally competent
to combine various parts of evidence, and to deduce from them the necessary conclusions. But
the wide difference of their habits and education often occasioned a great discrepancy in their
respective deductions from admitted premises.

Major Melville had been versed in camps and cities; he was vigilant by profession and cautious
from experience, had met with much evil in the world, and therefore, though himself an upright
magistrate and an honourable man, his opinions of others were always strict, and sometimes
unjustly severe. Mr. Morton, on the contrary, had passed from the literary pursuits of a college,
where he was beloved by his companions and respected by his teachers, to the ease and simplicity
of his present charge, where his opportunities of witnessing evil were few, and never dwelt
upon but in order to encourage repentance and amendment; and where the love and respect of
his parishioners repaid his affectionate zeal in their behalf by endeavouring to disguise from
him what they knew would give him the most acute pain, namely, their own occasional transgressions
of the duties which it was the business of his life to recommend. Thus it was a common saying
in the neighbourhood (though both were popular characters), that the laird knew only the ill
in the parish and the minister only the good.

A love of letters, though kept in subordination to his clerical studies and duties, also distinguished
the pastor of Cairnvreckan, and had tinged his mind in earlier days with a slight feeling of
romance, which no after incidents of real life had entirely dissipated. The early loss of an
amiable young woman whom he had married for love, and who was quickly followed to the grave
by an only child, had also served, even after the lapse of many years, to soften a disposition
naturally mild and contemplative. His feelings on the present occasion were therefore likely
to differ from those of the severe disciplinarian, strict magistrate, and distrustful man of
the world.

When the servants had withdrawn, the silence of both parties continued, until Major Melville,
filling his glass and pushing the bottle to Mr. Morton, commenced--

'A distressing affair this, Mr. Morton. I fear this youngster has brought himself within the
compass of a halter.'

'God forbid!' answered the clergyman.

'Marry, and amen,' said the temporal magistrate; 'but I think even your merciful logic will
hardly deny the conclusion.'

'Surely, Major,' answered the clergyman, 'I should hope it might be averted, for aught we have
heard tonight?'

'Indeed!' replied Melville. 'But, my good parson, you are one of those who would communicate
to every criminal the benefit of clergy.'

'Unquestionably I would. Mercy and long-suffering are the grounds of the doctrine I am called
to teach.'

'True, religiously speaking; but mercy to a criminal may be gross injustice to the community.
I don't speak of this young fellow in particular, who I heartily wish may be able to clear
himself, for I like both his modesty and his spirit. But I fear he has rushed upon his fate.'

'And why? Hundreds of misguided gentlemen are now in arms against the government, many, doubtless,
upon principles which education and early prejudice have gilded with the names of patriotism
and heroism; Justice, when she selects her victims from such a multitude (for surely all will
not be destroyed), must regard the moral motive. He whom ambition or hope of personal advantage
has led to disturb the peace of a well-ordered government, let him fall a victim to the laws;
but surely youth, misled by the wild visions of chivalry and imaginary loyalty, may plead for
pardon.'

'If visionary chivalry and imaginary loyalty come within the predicament of high treason,'
replied the magistrate, 'I know no court in Christendom, my dear Mr. Morton, where they can
sue out their Habeas Corpus.'

'But I cannot see that this youth's guilt is at all established to my satisfaction,' said the
clergyman.

'Because your good-nature blinds your good sense,' replied Major Melville. 'Observe now: This
young man, descended of a family of hereditary Jacobites, his uncle the leader of the Tory
interest in the county of ----, his father a disobliged and discontented courtier, his tutor
a nonjuror and the author of two treasonable volumes--this youth, I say, enters into Gardiner's
dragoons, bringing with him a body of young fellows from his uncle's estate, who have not stickled
at avowing in their way the High-Church principles they learned at Waverley-Honour, in their
disputes with their comrades. To these young men Waverley is unusually attentive; they are
supplied with money beyond a soldier's wants and inconsistent with his discipline; and are
under the management of a favourite sergeant, through whom they hold an unusually close communication
with their captain, and affect to consider themselves as independent of the other officers,
and superior to their comrades.'

'All this, my dear Major, is the natural consequence of their attachment to their young landlord,
and of their finding themselves in a regiment levied chiefly in the north of Ireland and the
west of Scotland, and of course among comrades disposed to quarrel with them, both as Englishmen
and as members of the Church of England.'

'Well said, parson!' replied the magistrate. 'I would some of your synod heard you. But let
me go on. This young man obtains leave of absence, goes to Tully-Veolan--the principles of
the Baron of Bradwardine are pretty well known, not to mention that this lad's uncle brought
him off in the year fifteen; he engages there in a brawl, in which he is said to have disgraced
the commission he bore; Colonel Gardiner writes to him, first mildly, then more sharply--I
think you will not doubt his having done so, since he says so; the mess invite him to explain
the quarrel in which he is said to have been involved; he neither replies to his commander
nor his comrades. In the meanwhile his soldiers become mutinous and disorderly, and at length,
when the rumour of this unhappy rebellion becomes general, his favourite Sergeant Houghton
and another fellow are detected in correspondence with a French emissary, accredited, as he
says, by Captain Waverley, who urges him, according to the men's confession, to desert with
the troop and join their captain, who was with Prince Charles. In the meanwhile this trusty
captain is, by his own admission, residing at Glennaquoich with the most active, subtle, and
desperate Jacobite in Scotland; he goes with him at least as far as their famous hunting rendezvous,
and I fear a little farther. Meanwhile two other summonses are sent him; one warning him of
the disturbances in his troop, another peremptorily ordering him to repair to the regiment,
which, indeed, common sense might have dictated, when he observed rebellion thickening all
round him. He returns an absolute refusal, and throws up his commission.'

'He had been already deprived of it,' said Mr. Morton.

'But he regrets,' replied Melville, 'that the measure had anticipated his resignation. His
baggage is seized at his quarters and at Tully-Veolan, and is found to contain a stock of pestilent
Jacobitical pamphlets, enough to poison a whole country, besides the unprinted lucubrations
of his worthy friend and tutor Mr. Pembroke.'

'He says he never read them,' answered the minister.

'In an ordinary case I should believe him,' replied the magistrate, 'for they are as stupid
and pedantic in composition as mischievous in their tenets. But can you suppose anything but
value for the principles they maintain would induce a young man of his age to lug such trash
about with him? Then, when news arrive of the approach of the rebels, he sets out in a sort
of disguise, refusing to tell his name; and, if yon old fanatic tell truth, attended by a very
suspicious character, and mounted on a horse known to have belonged to Glennaquoich, and bearing
on his person letters from his family expressing high rancour against the house of Brunswick,
and a copy of verses in praise of one Wogan, who abjured the service of the Parliament to join
the Highland insurgents, when in arms to restore the house of Stuart, with a body of English
cavalry--the very counterpart of his own plot--and summed up with a "Go thou and do likewise"
from that loyal subject, and most safe and peaceable character, Fergus Mac-Ivor of Glennaquoich,
Vich Ian Vohr, and so forth. And, lastly,' continued Major Melville, warming in the detail
of his arguments, 'where do we find this second edition of Cavalier Wogan? Why, truly, in the
very track most proper for execution of his design, and pistolling the first of the king's
subjects who ventures to question his intentions.'

Mr. Morton prudently abstained from argument, which he perceived would only harden the magistrate
in his opinion, and merely asked how he intended to dispose of the prisoner?

'It is a question of some difficulty, considering the state of the country,' said Major Melville.

'Could you not detain him (being such a gentleman-like young man) here in your own house, out
of harm's way, till this storm blow over?'

'My good friend,' said Major Melville, 'neither your house nor mine will be long out of harm's
way, even were it legal to confine him here. I have just learned that the commander-in-chief,
who marched into the Highlands to seek out and disperse the insurgents, has declined giving
them battle at Coryarrick, and marched on northward with all the disposable force of government
to Inverness, John-o'-Groat's House, or the devil, for what I know, leaving the road to the
Low Country open and undefended to the Highland army.'

'Good God!' said the clergyman. 'Is the man a coward, a traitor, or an idiot?'

'None of the three, I believe,' answered Melville. 'Sir John has the commonplace courage of
a common soldier, is honest enough, does what he is commanded, and understands what is told
him, but is as fit to act for himself in circumstances of importance as I, my dear parson,
to occupy your pulpit.'

This important public intelligence naturally diverted the discourse from Waverley for some
time; at length, however, the subject was resumed.

'I believe,' said Major Melville, 'that I must give this young man in charge to some of the
detached parties of armed volunteers who were lately sent out to overawe the disaffected districts.
They are now recalled towards Stirling, and a small body comes this way to-morrow or next day,
commanded by the westland man--what's his name? You saw him, and said he was the very model
of one of Cromwell's military saints.'

'Gilfillan, the Cameronian,' answered Mr. Morton. 'I wish the young gentleman may be safe with
him. Strange things are done in the heat and hurry of minds in so agitating a crisis, and I
fear Gilfillan is of a sect which has suffered persecution without learning mercy.'

'He has only to lodge Mr. Waverley in Stirling Castle,' said the Major; 'I will give strict
injunctions to treat him well. I really cannot devise any better mode for securing him, and
I fancy you would hardly advise me to encounter the responsibility of setting him at liberty.'

'But you will have no objection to my seeing him tomorrow in private?' said the minister.

'None, certainly; your loyalty and character are my warrant. But with what view do you make
the request?'

'Simply,' replied Mr. Morton, 'to make the experiment whether he may not be brought to communicate
to me some circumstances which may hereafter be useful to alleviate, if not to exculpate, his
conduct.'

The friends now parted and retired to rest, each filled with the most anxious reflections on
the state of the country.

CHAPTER XXXIII

A CONFIDANT

Waverley awoke in the morning from troubled dreams and unrefreshing slumbers to a full consciousness
of the horrors of his situation. How it might terminate he knew not. He might be delivered
up to military law, which, in the midst of civil war, was not likely to be scrupulous in the
choice of its victims or the quality of the evidence. Nor did he feel much more comfortable
at the thoughts of a trial before a Scottish court of justice, where he knew the laws and forms
differed in many respects from those of England, and had been taught to believe, however erroneously,
that the liberty and rights of the subject were less carefully protected. A sentiment of bitterness
rose in his mind against the government, which he considered as the cause of his embarrassment
and peril, and he cursed internally his scrupulous rejection of Mac-Ivor's invitation to accompany
him to the field.

'Why did not I,' he said to himself, 'like other men of honour, take the earliest opportunity
to welcome to Britain the descendant of her ancient kings and lineal heir of her throne? Why
did not I--

    Unthread the rude eye of rebellion,
    And welcome home again discarded faith,
    Seek out Prince Charles, and fall before his feet?

All that has been recorded of excellence and worth in the house of Waverley has been founded
upon their loyal faith to the house of Stuart. From the interpretation which this Scotch magistrate
has put upon the letters of my uncle and father, it is plain that I ought to have understood
them as marshalling me to the course of my ancestors; and it has been my gross dulness, joined
to the obscurity of expression which they adopted for the sake of security, that has confounded
my judgment. Had I yielded to the first generous impulse of indignation when I learned that
my honour was practised upon, how different had been my present situation! I had then been
free and in arms fighting, like my forefathers, for love, for loyalty, and for fame. And now
I am here, netted and in the toils, at the disposal of a suspicious, stern, and cold-hearted
man, perhaps to be turned over to the solitude of a dungeon or the infamy of a public execution.
O, Fergus! how true has your prophecy proved; and how speedy, how very speedy, has been its
accomplishment!'

While Edward was ruminating on these painful subjects of contemplation, and very naturally,
though not quite so justly, bestowing upon the reigning dynasty that blame which was due to
chance, or, in part at least, to his own unreflecting conduct, Mr. Morton availed himself of
Major Melville's permission to pay him an early visit.

Waverley's first impulse was to intimate a desire that he might not be disturbed with questions
or conversation; but he suppressed it upon observing the benevolent and reverend appearance
of the clergyman who had rescued him from the immediate violence of the villagers.

'I believe, sir,' said the unfortunate young man,'that in any other circumstances I should
have had as much gratitude to express to you as the safety of my life may be worth; but such
is the present tumult of my mind, and such is my anticipation of what I am yet likely to endure,
that I can hardly offer you thanks for your interposition.'

Mr. Morton replied, that, far from making any claim upon his good opinion, his only wish and
the sole purpose of his visit was to find out the means of deserving it. 'My excellent friend,
Major Melville,' he continued, 'has feelings and duties as a soldier and public functionary
by which I am not fettered; nor can I always coincide in opinions which he forms, perhaps with
too little allowance for the imperfections of human nature.' He paused and then proceeded:
'I do not intrude myself on your confidence, Mr. Waverley, for the purpose of learning any
circumstances the knowledge of which can be prejudicial either to yourself or to others; but
I own my earnest wish is that you would intrust me with any particulars which could lead to
your exculpation. I can solemnly assure you they will be deposited with a faithful and, to
the extent of his limited powers, a zealous agent.'

'You are, sir, I presume, a Presbyterian clergyman?' Mr. Morton bowed. 'Were I to be guided
by the prepossessions of education, I might distrust your friendly professions in my case;
but I have observed that similar prejudices are nourished in this country against your professional
brethren of the Episcopal persuasion, and I am willing to believe them equally unfounded in
both cases.'

'Evil to him that thinks otherwise,' said Mr. Morton; 'or who holds church government and ceremonies
as the exclusive gage of Christian faith or moral virtue.'

'But,' continued Waverley, 'I cannot perceive why I should trouble you with a detail of particulars,
out of which, after revolving them as carefully as possible in my recollection, I find myself
unable to explain much of what is charged against me. I know, indeed, that I am innocent, but
I hardly see how I can hope to prove myself so.'

'It is for that very reason, Mr. Waverley,' said the clergyman, 'that I venture to solicit
your confidence. My knowledge of individuals in this country is pretty general, and can upon
occasion be extended. Your situation will, I fear, preclude your taking those active steps
for recovering intelligence or tracing imposture which I would willingly undertake in your
behalf; and if you are not benefited by my exertions, at least they cannot be prejudicial to you.'

Waverley, after a few minutes' reflection, was convinced that his reposing confidence in Mr.
Morton, so far as he himself was concerned, could hurt neither Mr. Bradwardine nor Fergus Mac-Ivor,
both of whom had openly assumed arms against the government, and that it might possibly, if
the professions of his new friend corresponded in sincerity with the earnestness of his expression,
be of some service to himself. He therefore ran briefly over most of the events with which
the reader is already acquainted, suppressing his attachment to Flora, and indeed neither mentioning
her nor Rose Bradwardine in the course of his narrative.

Mr. Morton seemed particularly struck with the account of Waverley's visit to Donald Bean Lean.
'I am glad,' he said, 'you did not mention this circumstance to the Major. It is capable of
great misconstruction on the part of those who do not consider the power of curiosity and the
influence of romance as motives of youthful conduct. When I was a young man like you, Mr. Waverley,
any such hair-brained expedition (I beg your pardon for the expression) would have had inexpressible
charms for me. But there are men in the world who will not believe that danger and fatigue
are often incurred without any very adequate cause, and therefore who are sometimes led to
assign motives of action entirely foreign to the truth. This man Bean Lean is renowned through
the country as a sort of Robin Hood, and the stories which are told of his address and enterprise
are the common tales of the winter fireside. He certainly possesses talents beyond the rude
sphere in which he moves; and, being neither destitute of ambition nor encumbered with scruples,
he will probably attempt, by every means, to distinguish himself during the period of these
unhappy commotions.' Mr. Morton then made a careful memorandum of the various particulars of
Waverley's interview with Donald Bean Lean and the other circumstances which he had communicated.

The interest which this good man seemed to take in his misfortunes, above all, the full confidence
he appeared to repose in his innocence, had the natural effect of softening Edward's heart,
whom the coldness of Major Melville had taught to believe that the world was leagued to oppress
him. He shook Mr. Morton warmly by the hand, and, assuring him that his kindness and sympathy
had relieved his mind of a heavy load, told him that, whatever might be his own fate, he belonged
to a family who had both gratitude and the power of displaying it. The earnestness of his thanks
called drops to the eyes of the worthy clergyman, who was doubly interested in the cause for
which he had volunteered his services, by observing the genuine and undissembled feelings of
his young friend.

Edward now inquired if Mr. Morton knew what was likely to be his destination.

'Stirling Castle,' replied his friend; 'and so far I am well pleased for your sake, for the
governor is a man of honour and humanity. But I am more doubtful of your treatment upon the
road; Major Melville is involuntarily obliged to intrust the custody of your person to another.'

'I am glad of it,' answered Waverley. 'I detest that cold-blooded calculating Scotch magistrate.
I hope he and I shall never meet more. He had neither sympathy with my innocence nor with my
wretchedness; and the petrifying accuracy with which he attended to every form of civility,
while he tortured me by his questions, his suspicions, and his inferences, was as tormenting
as the racks of the Inquisition. Do not vindicate him, my dear sir, for that I cannot bear
with patience; tell me rather who is to have the charge of so important a state prisoner as I am.'

'I believe a person called Gilfillan, one of the sect who are termed Cameronians.'

'I never heard of them before.'

'They claim,' said the clergyman, 'to represent the more strict and severe Presbyterians, who,
in Charles Second's and James Second's days, refused to profit by the Toleration, or Indulgence,
as it was called, which was extended to others of that religion. They held conventicles in
the open fields, and, being treated with great violence and cruelty by the Scottish government,
more than once took arms during those reigns. They take their name from their leader, Richard
Cameron.'

'I recollect,' said Waverley; 'but did not the triumph of Presbytery at the Revolution extinguish
that sect?'

'By no means,' replied Morton; 'that great event fell yet far short of what they proposed,
which was nothing less than the complete establishment of the Presbyterian Church upon the
grounds of the old Solemn League and Covenant. Indeed, I believe they scarce knew what they
wanted; but being a numerous body of men, and not unacquainted with the use of arms, they kept
themselves together as a separate party in the state, and at the time of the Union had nearly
formed a most unnatural league with their old enemies the Jacobites to oppose that important
national measure. Since that time their numbers have gradually diminished; but a good many
are still to be found in the western counties, and several, with a better temper than in 1707,
have now taken arms for government. This person, whom they call Gifted Gilfillan, has been
long a leader among them, and now heads a small party, which will pass here to-day or to-morrow
on their march towards Stirling, under whose escort Major Melville proposes you shall travel.
I would willingly speak to Gilfillan in your behalf; but, having deeply imbibed all the prejudices
of his sect, and being of the same fierce disposition, he would pay little regard to the remonstrances
of an Erastian divine, as he would politely term me. And now, farewell, my young friend; for
the present I must not weary out the Major's indulgence, that I may obtain his permission to
visit you again in the course of the day.'

CHAPTER XXXIV

THINGS MEND A LITTLE

About noon Mr. Morton returned and brought an invitation from Major Melville that Mr. Waverley
would honour him with his company to dinner, notwithstanding the unpleasant affair which detained
him at Cairnvreckan, from which he should heartily rejoice to see Mr. Waverley completely extricated.
The truth was that Mr. Morton's favourable report and opinion had somewhat staggered the preconceptions
of the old soldier concerning Edward's supposed accession to the mutiny in the regiment; and
in the unfortunate state of the country the mere suspicion of disaffection or an inclination
to join the insurgent Jacobites might infer criminality indeed, but certainly not dishonour.
Besides, a person whom the Major trusted had reported to him (though, as it proved, inaccurately)
a contradiction of the agitating news of the preceding evening. According to this second edition
of the intelligence, the Highlanders had withdrawn from the Lowland frontier with the purpose
of following the army in their march to Inverness. The Major was at a loss, indeed, to reconcile
his information with the well-known abilities of some of the gentlemen in the Highland army,
yet it was the course which was likely to be most agreeable to others. He remembered the same
policy had detained them in the north in the year 1715, and he anticipated a similar termination
to the insurrection as upon that occasion.

This news put him in such good-humour that he readily acquiesced in Mr. Morton's proposal to
pay some hospitable attention to his unfortunate guest, and voluntarily added, he hoped the
whole affair would prove a youthful escapade, which might be easily atoned by a short confinement.
The kind mediator had some trouble to prevail on his young friend to accept the invitation.
He dared not urge to him the real motive, which was a good-natured wish to secure a favourable
report of Waverley's case from Major Melville to Governor Blakeney. He remarked, from the flashes
of our hero's spirit, that touching upon this topic would be sure to defeat his purpose. He
therefore pleaded that the invitation argued the Major's disbelief of any part of the accusation
which was inconsistent with Waverley's conduct as a soldier and a man of honour, and that to
decline his courtesy might be interpreted into a consciousness that it was unmerited. In short,
he so far satisfied Edward that the manly and proper course was to meet the Major on easy terms
that, suppressing his strong dislike again to encounter his cold and punctilious civility,
Waverley agreed to be guided by his new friend.

The meeting at first was stiff and formal enough. But Edward, having accepted the invitation,
and his mind being really soothed and relieved by the kindness of Morton, held himself bound
to behave with ease, though he could not affect cordiality. The Major was somewhat of a bon
vivant, and his wine was excellent. He told his old campaign stories, and displayed much knowledge
of men and manners. Mr. Morton had an internal fund of placid and quiet gaiety, which seldom
failed to enliven any small party in which he found himself pleasantly seated. Waverley, whose
life was a dream, gave ready way to the predominating impulse and became the most lively of
the party. He had at all times remarkable natural powers of conversation, though easily silenced
by discouragement. On the present occasion he piqued himself upon leaving on the minds of his
companions a favourable impression of one who, under such disastrous circumstances, could sustain
his misfortunes with ease and gaiety. His spirits, though not unyielding, were abundantly elastic,
and soon seconded his efforts. The trio were engaged in very lively discourse, apparently delighted
with each other, and the kind host was pressing a third bottle of Burgundy, when the sound
of a drum was heard at some distance. The Major, who, in the glee of an old soldier, had forgot
the duties of a magistrate, cursed, with a muttered military oath, the circumstances which
recalled him to his official functions. He rose and went towards the window, which commanded
a very near view of the highroad, and he was followed by his guests.

The drum advanced, beating no measured martial tune, but a kind of rub-a-dub-dub, like that
with which the fire-drum startles the slumbering artizans of a Scotch burgh. It is the object
of this history to do justice to all men; I must therefore record, in justice to the drummer,
that he protested he could beat any known march or point of war known in the British army,
and had accordingly commenced with 'Dumbarton's Drums,' when he was silenced by Gifted Gilfillan,
the commander of the party, who refused to permit his followers to move to this profane, and
even, as he said, persecutive tune, and commanded the drummer to beat the 119th Psalm. As this
was beyond the capacity of the drubber of sheepskin, he was fain to have recourse to the inoffensive
row-de- dow as a harmless substitute for the sacred music which his instrument or skill were
unable to achieve. This may be held a trifling anecdote, but the drummer in question was no
less than town-drummer of Anderton. I remember his successor in office, a member of that enlightened
body, the British Convention. Be his memory, therefore, treated with due respect.

CHAPTER XXXV

A VOLUNTEER SIXTY YEARS SINCE

On hearing the unwelcome sound of the drum, Major Melville hastily opened a sashed door and
stepped out upon a sort of terrace which divided his house from the highroad from which the
martial music proceeded. Waverley and his new friend followed him, though probably he would
have dispensed with their attendance. They soon recognised in solemn march, first, the performer
upon the drum; secondly, a large flag of four compartments, on which were inscribed the words,
COVENANT, KIRK, KING, KINGDOMS. The person who was honoured with this charge was followed by
the commander of the party, a thin, dark, rigid-looking man, about sixty years old. The spiritual
pride, which in mine host of the Candlestick mantled in a sort of supercilious hypocrisy, was
in this man's face elevated and yet darkened by genuine and undoubting fanaticism. It was impossible
to behold him without imagination placing him in some strange crisis, where religious zeal
was the ruling principle. A martyr at the stake, a soldier in the field, a lonely and banished
wanderer consoled by the intensity and supposed purity of his faith under every earthly privation,
perhaps a persecuting inquisitor, as terrific in power as unyielding in adversity; any of these
seemed congenial characters to this personage. With these high traits of energy, there was
something in the affected precision and solemnity of his deportment and discourse that bordered
upon the ludicrous; so that, according to the mood of the spectator's mind and the light under
which Mr. Gilfillan presented himself, one might have feared, admired, or laughed at him. His
dress was that of a West-Country peasant, of better materials indeed than that of the lower
rank, but in no respect affecting either the mode of the age or of the Scottish gentry at any
period. His arms were a broadsword and pistols, which, from the antiquity of their appearance,
might have seen the rout of Pentland or Bothwell Brigg.

As he came up a few steps to meet Major Melville, and touched solemnly, but slightly, his huge
and over-brimmed blue bonnet, in answer to the Major, who had courteously raised a small triangular
gold-laced hat, Waverley was irresistibly impressed with the idea that he beheld a leader of
the Roundheads of yore in conference with one of Marlborough's captains.

The group of about thirty armed men who followed this gifted commander was of a motley description.
They were in ordinary Lowland dresses, of different colours, which, contrasted with the arms
they bore, gave them an irregular and mobbish appearance; so much is the eye accustomed to
connect uniformity of dress with the military character. In front were a few who apparently
partook of their leader's enthusiasm, men obviously to be feared in a combat, where their natural
courage was exalted by religious zeal. Others puffed and strutted, filled with the importance
of carrying arms and all the novelty of their situation, while the rest, apparently fatigued
with their march, dragged their limbs listlessly along, or straggled from their companions
to procure such refreshments as the neighbouring cottages and alehouses afforded. Six grenadiers
of Ligonier's, thought the Major to himself, as his mind reverted to his own military experience,
would have sent all these fellows to the right about.

Greeting, however, Mr. Gilfillan civilly, he requested to know if he had received the letter
he had sent to him upon his march, and could undertake the charge of the state prisoner whom
he there mentioned as far as Stirling Castle. 'Yea,' was the concise reply of the Cameronian
leader, in a voice which seemed to issue from the very penetralia of his person.

'But your escort, Mr. Gilfillan, is not so strong as I expected,' said Major Melville.

'Some of the people,' replied Gilfillan, 'hungered and were athirst by the way, and tarried
until their poor souls were refreshed with the word.'

'I am sorry, sir,' replied the Major, 'you did not trust to your refreshing your men at Cairnvreckan;
whatever my house contains is at the command of persons employed in the service.'

'It was not of creature-comforts I spake,' answered the Covenanter, regarding Major Melville
with something like a smile of contempt; 'howbeit, I thank you; but the people remained waiting
upon the precious Mr. Jabesh Rentowel for the out-pouring of the afternoon exhortation.'

'And have you, sir,' said the Major, 'when the rebels are about to spread themselves through
this country, actually left a great part of your command at a fieldpreaching?'

Gilfillan again smiled scornfully as he made this indirect answer --'Even thus are the children
of this world wiser in their generation than the children of light!'

'However, sir,' said the Major, 'as you are to take charge of this gentleman to Stirling, and
deliver him, with these papers, into the hands of Governor Blakeney, I beseech you to observe
some rules of military discipline upon your march. For example, I would advise you to keep
your men more closely together, and that each in his march should cover his file-leader, instead
of straggling like geese upon a common; and, for fear of surprise, I further recommend to you
to form a small advance-party of your best men, with a single vidette in front of the whole
march, so that when you approach a village or a wood'--(here the Major interrupted himself)--'But
as I don't observe you listen to me, Mr. Gilfillan, I suppose I need not give myself the trouble
to say more upon the subject. You are a better judge, unquestionably, than I am of the measures
to be pursued; but one thing I would have you well aware of, that you are to treat this gentleman,
your prisoner, with no rigour nor incivility, and are to subject him to no other restraint
than is necessary for his security.'

'I have looked into my commission,' said Mr. Gilfillan,' subscribed by a worthy and professing
nobleman, William, Earl of Glencairn; nor do I find it therein set down that I am to receive
any charges or commands anent my doings from Major William Melville of Cairnvreckan.'

Major Melville reddened even to the well-powdered ears which appeared beneath his neat military
sidecurls, the more so as he observed Mr. Morton smile at the same moment. 'Mr. Gilfillan,'
he answered, with some asperity, 'I beg ten thousand pardons for interfering with a person
of your importance. I thought, however, that as you have been bred a grazier, if I mistake
not, there might be occasion to remind you of the difference between Highlanders and Highland
cattle; and if you should happen to meet with any gentleman who has seen service, and is disposed
to speak upon the subject, I should still imagine that listening to him would do you no sort
of harm. But I have done, and have only once more to recommend this gentleman to your civility
as well as to your custody. Mr. Waverley, I am truly sorry we should part in this way; but
I trust, when you are again in this country, I may have an opportunity to render Cairnvreckan
more agreeable than circumstances have permitted on this occasion.'

So saying, he shook our hero by the hand. Morton also took an affectionate farewell, and Waverley,
having mounted his horse, with a musketeer leading it by the bridle and a file upon each side
to prevent his escape, set forward upon the march with Gilfillan and his party. Through the
little village they were accompanied with the shouts of the children, who cried out, 'Eh! see
to the Southland gentleman that's gaun to be hanged for shooting lang John Mucklewrath, the smith!

APPENDICES TO THE GENERAL PREFACE

NO. I

FRAGMENT [Footnote: It is not to be supposed that these fragments are given in possessing any
intrinsic value of themselves; but there may be some curiosity attached to them, as to the
first etchings of a plate, which are accounted interesting by those who have, in any degree,
been interested in the more finished works of the artist.] OF A ROMANCE WHICH WAS TO HAVE BEEN
ENTITLED

THOMAS THE RHYMER

CHAPTER I

THE sun was nearly set behind the distant mountains of Liddesdale, when a few of the scattered
and terrified inhabitants of the village of Hersildoune, which had four days before been burned
by a predatory band of English Borderers, were now busied in repairing their ruined dwellings.
One high tower in the centre of the village alone exhibited no appearance of devastation. It
was surrounded with court walls, and the outer gate was barred and bolted. The bushes and brambles
which grew around, and had even insinuated their branches beneath the gate, plainly showed
that it must have been many years since it had been opened. While the cottages around lay in
smoking ruins, this pile, deserted and desolate as it seemed to be, had suffered nothing from
the violence of the invaders; and the wretched beings who were endeavouring to repair their
miserable huts against nightfall seemed to neglect the preferable shelter which it might have
afforded them without the necessity of labour.

Before the day had quite gone down, a knight, richly armed and mounted upon an ambling hackney,
rode slowly into the village. His attendants were a lady, apparently young and beautiful, who
rode by his side upon a dappled palfrey; his squire, who carried his helmet and lance, and
led his battlehorse, a noble steed, richly caparisoned. A page and four yeomen bearing bows
and quivers, short swords, and targets of a span breadth, completed his equipage, which, though
small, denoted him to be a man of high rank.

He stopped and addressed several of the inhabitants whom curiosity had withdrawn from their
labour to gaze at him; but at the sound of his voice, and still more on perceiving the St.
George's Cross in the caps of his followers, they fled, with a loud cry, 'that the Southrons
were returned.' The knight endeavoured to expostulate with the fugitives, who were chiefly
aged men, women, and children; but their dread of the English name accelerated their flight,
and in a few minutes, excepting the knight and his attendants, the place was deserted by all.
He paced through the village to seek a shelter for the night, and, despairing to find one either
in the inaccessible tower or the plundered huts of the peasantry, he directed his course to
the left hand, where he spied a small decent habitation, apparently the abode of a man considerably
above the common rank. After much knocking, the proprietor at length showed himself at the
window, and speaking in the English dialect, with great signs of apprehension, demanded their
business. The warrior replied that his quality was an English knight and baron, and that he
was travelling to the court of the King of Scotland on affairs of consequence to both kingdoms.

'Pardon my hesitation, noble Sir Knight,' said the old man, as he unbolted and unbarred his
doors--'Pardon my hesitation, but we are here exposed to too many intrusions to admit of our
exercising unlimited and unsuspicious hospitality. What I have is yours; and God send your
mission may bring back peace and the good days of our old Queen Margaret!'

'Amen, worthy Franklin,' quoth the Knight--'Did you know her?'

'I came to this country in her train,' said the Franklin; 'and the care of some of her jointure
lands which she devolved on me occasioned my settling here.'

'And how do you, being an Englishman,' said the Knight, 'protect your life and property here,
when one of your nation cannot obtain a single night's lodging, or a draught of water were
he thirsty?'

'Marry, noble sir,' answered the Franklin, 'use, as they say, will make a man live in a lion's
den; and as I settled here in a quiet time, and have never given cause of offence, I am respected
by my neighbours, and even, as you see, by our FORAYERS from England.'

'I rejoice to hear it, and accept your hospitality. Isabella, my love, our worthy host will
provide you a bed. My daughter, good Franklin, is ill at ease. We will occupy your house till
the Scottish King shall return from his northern expedition; meanwhile call me Lord Lacy of
Chester.'

The attendants of the Baron, assisted by the Franklin, were now busied in disposing of the
horses, and arranging the table for some refreshment for Lord Lacy and his fair companion.
While they sat down to it, they were attended by their host and his daughter, whom custom did
not permit to eat in their presence, and who afterwards withdrew to an outer chamber, where
the squire and page (both young men of noble birth) partook of supper, and were accommodated
with beds. The yeomen, after doing honour to the rustic cheer of Queen Margaret's bailiff,
withdrew to the stable, and each, beside his favourite horse, snored away the fatigues of their
journey.

Early on the following morning the travellers were roused by a thundering knocking at the door
of the house, accompanied with many demands for instant admission in the roughest tone. The
squire and page of Lord Lacy, after buckling on their arms, were about to sally out to chastise
these intruders, when the old host, after looking out at a private casement, contrived for
reconnoitring his visitors, entreated them, with great signs of terror, to be quiet, if they
did not mean that all in the house should be murdered.

He then hastened to the apartment of Lord Lacy, whom he met dressed in a long furred gown and
the knightly cap called a MORTIER, irritated at the noise, and demanding to know the cause
which had disturbed the repose of the household.

'Noble sir,' said the Franklin, 'one of the most formidable and bloody of the Scottish Border
riders is at hand; he is never seen,' added he, faltering with terror, 'so far from the hills
but with some bad purpose, and the power of accomplishing it; so hold yourself to your guard,
for--'

A loud crash here announced that the door was broken down, and the knight just descended the
stair in time to prevent bloodshed betwixt his attendants and the intruders. They were three
in number; their chief was tall, bony, and athletic, his spare and muscular frame, as well
as the hardness of his features, marked the course of his life to have been fatiguing and perilous.
The effect of his appearance was aggravated by his dress, which consisted of a jack or jacket,
composed of thick buff leather, on which small plates of iron of a lozenge form were stitched
in such a manner as to overlap each other and form a coat of mail, which swayed with every
motion of the wearer's body. This defensive armour covered a doublet of coarse grey cloth,
and the Borderer had a few half-rusted plates of steel on his shoulders, a two- edged sword,
with a dagger hanging beside it, in a buff belt; a helmet, with a few iron bars, to cover the
face instead of a visor, and a lance of tremendous and uncommon length, completed his appointments.
The looks of the man were as wild and rude as his attire: his keen black eyes never rested
one moment fixed upon a single object, but constantly traversed all around, as if they ever
sought some danger to oppose, some plunder to seize, or some insult to revenge. The latter
seemed to be his present object, for, regardless of the dignified presence of Lord Lacy, he
uttered the most incoherent threats against the owner of the house and his guests.

'We shall see--ay, marry shall we--if an English hound is to harbour and reset the Southrons
here. Thank the Abbot of Melrose and the good Knight of Coldingnow that have so long kept me
from your skirts. But those days are gone, by Saint Mary, and you shall find it!'

It is probable the enraged Borderer would not have long continued to vent his rage in empty
menaces, had not the entrance of the four yeomen with their bows bent convinced him that the
force was not at this moment on his own side.

Lord Lacy now advanced towards him. 'You intrude upon my privacy, soldier; withdraw yourself
and your followers. There is peace betwixt our nations, or my servants should chastise thy
presumption.'

'Such peace as ye give such shall ye have,' answered the moss- trooper, first pointing with
his lance towards the burned village and then almost instantly levelling it against Lord Lacy.
The squire drew his sword and severed at one blow the steel head from the truncheon of the spear.

'Arthur Fitzherbert,' said the Baron, 'that stroke has deferred thy knighthood for one year;
never must that squire wear the spurs whose unbridled impetuosity can draw unbidden his sword
in the presence of his master. Go hence and think on what I have said.'

The squire left the chamber abashed.

'It were vain,' continued Lord Lacy, 'to expect that courtesy from a mountain churl which even
my own followers can forget. Yet, before thou drawest thy brand (for the intruder laid his
hand upon the hilt of his sword), thou wilt do well to reflect that I came with a safe-conduct
from thy king, and have no time to waste in brawls with such as thou.'

'From MY king--from my king!' re-echoed the mountaineer. 'I care not that rotten truncheon
(striking the shattered spear furiously on the ground) for the King of Fife and Lothian. But
Habby of Cessford will be here belive; and we shall soon know if he will permit an English
churl to occupy his hostelrie.'

Having uttered these words, accompanied with a lowering glance from under his shaggy black
eyebrows, he turned on his heel and left the house with his two followers. They mounted their
horses, which they had tied to an outer fence, and vanished in an instant.

'Who is this discourteous ruffian?' said Lord Lacy to the Franklin, who had stood in the most
violent agitation during this whole scene.

'His name, noble lord, is Adam Kerr of the Moat, but he is commonly called by his companions
the Black Rider of Cheviot. I fear, I fear, he comes hither for no good; but if the Lord of
Cessford be near, he will not dare offer any unprovoked outrage.'

'I have heard of that chief,' said the Baron. 'Let me know when he approaches, and do thou,
Rodulph (to the eldest yeoman), keep a strict watch. Adelbert (to the page), attend to arm
me.' The page bowed, and the Baron withdrew to the chamber of the Lady Isabella to explain
the cause of the disturbance.

No more of the proposed tale was ever written; but the Author's purpose was that it should
turn upon a fine legend of superstition which is current in the part of the Borders where he
had his residence, where, in the reign of Alexander III of Scotland, that renowned person Thomas
of Hersildoune, called the Rhymer, actually flourished. This personage, the Merlin of Scotland,
and to whom some of the adventures which the British bards assigned to Merlin Caledonius, or
the Wild, have been transferred by tradition, was, as is well known, a magician, as well as
a poet and prophet. He is alleged still to live in the land of Faery, and is expected to return
at some great convulsion of society, in which he is to act a distinguished part, a tradition
common to all nations, as the belief of the Mahomedans respecting their twelfth Imaum demonstrates.

Now, it chanced many years since that there lived on the Borders a jolly, rattling horse-cowper,
who was remarkable for a reckless and fearless temper, which made him much admired and a little
dreaded amongst his neighbours. One moonlight night, as he rode over Bowden Moor, on the west
side of the Eildon Hills, the scene of Thomas the Rhymer's prophecies, and often mentioned
in his story, having a brace of horses along with him which he had not been able to dispose
of, he met a man of venerable appearance and singularly antique dress, who, to his great surprise,
asked the price of his horses, and began to chaffer with him on the subject. To Canobie Dick,
for so shall we call our Border dealer, a chap was a chap, and he would have sold a horse to
the devil himself, without minding his cloven hoof, and would have probably cheated Old Nick
into the bargain. The stranger paid the price they agreed on, and all that puzzled Dick in
the transaction was, that the gold which he received was in unicorns, bonnet-pieces, and other
ancient coins, which would have been invaluable to collectors, but were rather troublesome
in modern currency. It was gold, however, and therefore Dick contrived to get better value
for the coin than he perhaps gave to his customer. By the command of so good a merchant, he
brought horses to the same spot more than once, the purchaser only stipulating that he should
always come, by night, and alone. I do not know whether it was from mere curiosity, or whether
some hope of gain mixed with it, but after Dick had sold several horses in this way, he began
to complain that dry bargains were unlucky, and to hint that, since his chap must live in the
neighbourhood, he ought, in the courtesy of dealing, to treat him to half a mutchkin.

'You may see my dwelling if you will,' said the stranger; 'but if you lose courage at what
you see there, you will rue it all your life.'

Dicken, however, laughed the warning to scorn, and, having alighted to secure his horse, he
followed the stranger up a narrow foot-path, which led them up the hills to the singular eminence
stuck betwixt the most southern and the centre peaks, and called from its resemblance to such
an animal in its form the Lucken Hare. At the foot of this eminence, which is almost as famous
for witch meetings as the neighbouring wind-mill of Kippilaw, Dick was somewhat startled to
observe that his conductor entered the hillside by a passage or cavern, of which he himself,
though well acquainted with the spot, had never seen or heard.

'You may still return,' said his guide, looking ominously back upon him; but Dick scorned to
show the white feather, and on they went. They entered a very long range of stables; in every
stall stood a coal-black horse; by every horse lay a knight in coal- black armour, with a drawn
sword in his hand; but all were as silent, hoof and limb, as if they had been cut out of marble.
A great number of torches lent a gloomy lustre to the hall, which, like those of the Caliph
Vathek, was of large dimensions. At the upper end, however, they at length arrived, where a
sword and horn lay on an antique table.

'He that shall sound that horn and draw that sword,' said the stranger, who now intimated that
he was the famous Thomas of Hersildoune, 'shall, if his heart fail him not, be king over all
broad Britain. So speaks the tongue that cannot lie. But all depends on courage, and much on
your taking the sword or the horn first.'

Dick was much disposed to take the sword, but his bold spirit was quailed by the supernatural
terrors of the hall, and he thought to unsheath the sword first might be construed into defiance,
and give offence to the powers of the Mountain. He took the bugle with a trembling hand, and
[sounded] a feeble note, but loud enough to produce a terrible answer. Thunder rolled in stunning
peals through the immense hall; horses and men started to life; the steeds snorted, stamped,
grinded their bits, and tossed on high their heads; the warriors sprung to their feet, clashed
their armour, and brandished their swords. Dick's terror was extreme at seeing the whole army,
which had been so lately silent as the grave, in uproar, and about to rush on him. He dropped
the horn, and made a feeble attempt to seize the enchanted sword; but at the same moment a
voice pronounced aloud the mysterious words:

    'Woe to the coward, that ever he was born,
    Who did not draw the sword before he blew the horn!'

At the same time a whirlwind of irresistible fury howled through the long hall, bore the unfortunate
horse-jockey clear out of the mouth of the cavern, and precipitated him over a steep bank of
loose stones, where the shepherds found him the next morning, with just breath sufficient to
tell his fearful tale, after concluding which he expired.

This legend, with several variations, is found in many parts of Scotland and England; the scene
is sometimes laid in some favourite glen of the Highlands, sometimes in the deep coal-mines
of Northumberland and Cumberland, which run so far beneath the ocean. It is also to be found
in Reginald Scott's book on "Witchcraft," which was written in the sixteenth century. It would
be in vain to ask what was the original of the tradition. The choice between the horn and sword,
may perhaps, include as a moral that it is foolhardy to awaken danger before we have arms in
our hands to resist it.

Although admitting of much poetical ornament, it is clear that this legend would have formed
but an unhappy foundation for a prose story, and must have degenerated into a mere fairy tale.
Doctor John Leyden has beautifully introduced the tradition in his Scenes of Infancy:--

    Mysterious Rhymer, doom'd by fate's decree,
    Still to revisit Eildon's fated tree;
    Where oft the swain, at dawn of Hallow-day,
    Hears thy fleet barb with wild impatience neigh;
    Say who is he, with summons long and high.
    Shall bid the charmed sleep of ages fly,
    Roll the long sound through Eildon's caverns vast,
    While each dark warrior kindles at the blast:
    The horn, the falchion grasp with mighty hand,
    And peal proud Arthur's march from Fairy-land?

    Scenes of Infancy, Part I.

In the same cabinet with the preceding fragment, the following occurred among other disjecta
membra. It seems to be an attempt at a tale of a different description from the last, but was
almost instantly abandoned. The introduction points out the time of the composition to have
been about the end of the eighteenth century.

THE LORD OF ENNERDALE

A FRAGMENT OF A LETTER FROM JOHN B----, ESQ., OF THAT ILK, TO WILLIAM G----, F.R.S.E.

'FILL a bumper,' said the Knight; 'the ladies may spare us a little longer. Fill a bumper to
the Archduke Charles.'

The company did due honour to the toast of their landlord.

'The success of the Archduke,' said the muddy Vicar, 'will tend to further our negotiation
at Paris; and if--'

'Pardon the interruption, Doctor,' quoth a thin emaciated figure, with somewhat of a foreign
accent; 'but why should you connect those events, unless to hope that the bravery and victories
of our allies may supersede the necessity of a degrading treaty?'

'We begin to feel, Monsieur L'Abbe,' answered the Vicar, with some asperity, 'that a Continental
war entered into for the defence of an ally who was unwilling to defend himself, and for the
restoration of a royal family, nobility, and priesthood who tamely abandoned their own rights,
is a burden too much even for the resources of this country.'

'And was the war then on the part of Great Britain,' rejoined the Abbe, 'a gratuitous exertion
of generosity? Was there no fear of the wide-wasting spirit of innovation which had gone abroad?
Did not the laity tremble for their property, the clergy for their religion, and every loyal
heart for the Constitution? Was it not thought necessary to destroy the building which was
on fire, ere the conflagration spread around the vicinity?'

'Yet, if upon trial,' said the Doctor,' the walls were found to resist our utmost efforts,
I see no great prudence in persevering in our labour amid the smouldering ruins.'

'What, Doctor,' said the Baronet,'must I call to your recollection your own sermon on the late
general fast? Did you not encourage us to hope that the Lord of Hosts would go forth with our
armies, and that our enemies, who blasphemed him, should be put to shame?'

'It may please a kind father to chasten even his beloved children,' answered the Vicar.

'I think,' said a gentleman near the foot of the table,'that the Covenanters made some apology
of the same kind for the failure of their prophecies at the battle of Dunbar, when their mutinous
preachers compelled the prudent Lesley to go down against the Philistines in Gilgal.'

The Vicar fixed a scrutinizing and not a very complacent eye upon this intruder. He was a young
man, of mean stature, and rather a reserved appearance. Early and severe study had quenched
in his features the gaiety peculiar to his age, and impressed upon them a premature cast of
thoughtfulness. His eye had, however, retained its fire, and his gesture its animation. Had
he remained silent, he would have been long unnoticed; but when he spoke there was something
in his manner which arrested attention.

'Who is this young man?' said the Vicar in a low voice to his neighbour.

'A Scotchman called Maxwell, on a visit to Sir Henry,' was the answer.

'I thought so, from his accent and his manners,' said the Vicar.

It may be here observed that the northern English retain rather more of the ancient hereditary
aversion to their neighbours than their countrymen of the south. The interference of other
disputants, each of whom urged his opinion with all the vehemence of wine and politics, rendered
the summons to the drawing-room agreeable to the more sober part of the company.

The company dispersed by degrees, and at length the Vicar and the young Scotchman alone remained,
besides the Baronet, his lady, daughters, and myself. The clergyman had not, it would seem,
forgot the observation which ranked him with the false prophets of Dunbar, for he addressed
Mr. Maxwell upon the first opportunity.

'Hem! I think, sir, you mentioned something about the civil wars of last century? You must
be deeply skilled in them, indeed, if you can draw any parallel betwixt those and the present
evil days --days which I am ready to maintain are the most gloomy that ever darkened the prospects
of Britain.'

'God forbid, Doctor, that I should draw a comparison between the present times and those you
mention. I am too sensible of the advantages we enjoy over our ancestors. Faction and ambition
have introduced division among us; but we are still free from the guilt of civil bloodshed,
and from all the evils which flow from it. Our foes, sir, are not those of our own household;
and while we continue united and firm, from the attacks of a foreign enemy, however artful,
or however inveterate, we have, I hope, little to dread.'

'Have you found anything curious, Mr. Maxwell, among the dusty papers?' said Sir Henry, who
seemed to dread a revival of political discussion.

'My investigation amongst them led to reflections at which I have just now hinted,' said Maxwell;
'and I think they are pretty strongly exemplified by a story which I have been endeavouring
to arrange from some of your family manuscripts.'

'You are welcome to make what use of them you please,' said Sir Henry;' they have been undisturbed
for many a day, and I have often wished for some person as well skilled as you in these old
pot-hooks to tell me their meaning.'

'Those I just mentioned,' answered Maxwell, 'relate to a piece of private history, savouring
not a little of the marvellous, and intimately connected with your family; if it is agreeable,
I can read to you the anecdotes in the modern shape into which I have been endeavouring to
throw them, and you can then judge of the value of the originals.'

There was something in this proposal agreeable to all parties. Sir Henry had family pride,
which prepared him to take an interest in whatever related to his ancestors. The ladies had
dipped deeply into the fashionable reading of the present day. Lady Ratcliff and her fair daughters
had climbed every pass, viewed every pine- shrouded ruin, heard every groan, and lifted every
trap-door in company with the noted heroine of Udolpho. They had been heard, however, to observe
that the famous incident of the Black Veil singularly resembled the ancient apologue of the
mountain in labour, so that they were unquestionably critics as well as admirers. Besides all
this, they had valorously mounted en croupe behind the ghostly horseman of Prague, through
all his seven translators, and followed the footsteps of Moor through the forest of Bohemia.
Moreover, it was even hinted (but this was a greater mystery than all the rest) that a certain
performance called the 'Monk,' in three neat volumes, had been seen by a prying eye in the
right hand drawer of the Indian cabinet of Lady Ratcliff's dressing-room. Thus predisposed
for wonders and signs, Lady Ratcliff and her nymphs drew their chairs round a large blazing
wood-fire and arranged themselves to listen to the tale. To that fire I also approached, moved
thereunto partly by the inclemency of the season, and partly that my deafness, which you know,
cousin, I acquired during my campaign under Prince Charles Edward, might be no obstacle to
the gratification of my curiosity, which was awakened by what had any reference to the fate
of such faithful followers of royalty as you well know the house of Ratcliff have ever been.
To this wood-fire the Vicar likewise drew near, and reclined himself conveniently in his chair,
seemingly disposed to testify his disrespect for the narration and narrator by falling asleep
as soon as he conveniently could. By the side of Maxwell (by the way, I cannot learn that he
is in the least related to the Nithsdale family) was placed a small table and a couple of lights,
by the assistance of which he read as follows:--

'Journal of Jan Van Eulen

'On the 6th November 1645, I, Jan Van Eulen, merchant in Rotterdam, embarked with my only daughter
on board of the good vessel Vryheid of Amsterdam, in order to pass into the unhappy and disturbed
kingdom of England. 7th November--a brisk gale-- daughter sea-sick--myself unable to complete
the calculation which I have begun of the inheritance left by Jane Lansache of Carlisle, my
late dear wife's sister, the collection of which is the object of my voyage. 8th November--wind
still stormy and adverse--a horrid disaster nearly happened--my dear child washed overboard
as the vessel lurched to leeward. Memorandum--to reward the young sailor who saved her out
of the first moneys which I can recover from the inheritance of her aunt Lansache. 9th November--calm--
P.M. light breezes from N. N. W. I talked with the captain about the inheritance of my sister-in-law,
Jane Lansache. He says he knows the principal subject, which will not exceed L1000 in value.
N. B. He is a cousin to a family of Petersons, which was the name of the husband of my sister-in-law;
so there is room to hope it may be worth more than he reports. 10th November, 10 A.M. May God
pardon all our sins!--An English frigate, bearing the Parliament flag, has appeared in the
offing, and gives chase.--11 A.M. She nears us every moment, and the captain of our vessel
prepares to clear for action.--May God again have mercy upon us!'

'Here,' said Maxwell, 'the journal with which I have opened the narration ends somewhat abruptly.'

'I am glad of it,' said Lady Ratcliff.

'But, Mr. Maxwell,' said young Frank, Sir Henry's grandchild, 'shall we not hear how the battle
ended?'

I do not know, cousin, whether I have not formerly made you acquainted with the abilities of
Frank Ratcliff. There is not a battle fought between the troops of the Prince and of the Government
during the years 1745-46, of which he is not able to give an account. It is true, I have taken
particular pains to fix the events of this important period upon his memory by frequent repetition.

'No, my dear,' said Maxwell, in answer to young Frank Ratcliff-- 'No, my dear, I cannot tell
you the exact particulars of the engagement, but its consequences appear from the following
letter, despatched by Garbonete Von Eulen, daughter of our journalist, to a relation in England,
from whom she implored assistance. After some general account of the purpose of the voyage
and of the engagement her narrative proceeds thus:--

'The noise of the cannon had hardly ceased before the sounds of a language to me but half known,
and the confusion on board our vessel, informed me that the captors had boarded us and taken
possession of our vessel. I went on deck, where the first spectacle that met my eyes was a
young man, mate of our vessel, who, though disfigured and covered with blood, was loaded with
irons, and whom they were forcing over the side of the vessel into a boat. The two principal
persons among our enemies appeared to be a man of a tall thin figure, with a high-crowned hat
and long neckband, and short-cropped head of hair, accompanied by a bluff, open-looking elderly
man in a naval uniform. "Yarely! yarely! pull away, my hearts," said the latter, and the boat
bearing the unlucky young man soon carried him on board the frigate. Perhaps you will blame
me for mentioning this circumstance; but consider, my dear cousin, this man saved my life,
and his fate, even when my own and my father's were in the balance, could not but affect me nearly.

'"In the name of Him who is jealous, even to slaying," said the first--'

CETERA DESUNT

NO. II

CONCLUSION OF MR. STRUTT'S ROMANCE OF QUEENHOO-HALL

BY THE AUTHOR OF WAVERLEY

CHAPTER IV

A HUNTING PARTY--AN ADVENTURE--A DELIVERANCE

THE next morning the bugles were sounded by daybreak in the court of Lord Boteler's mansion,
to call the inhabitants from their slumbers to assist in a splendid chase with which the Baron
had resolved to entertain his neighbour Fitzallen and his noble visitor St. Clare. Peter Lanaret,
the falconer, was in attendance, with falcons for the knights and teircelets for the ladies,
if they should choose to vary their sport from hunting to hawking. Five stout yeomen keepers,
with their attendants, called Ragged Robins, all meetly arrayed in Kendal green, with bugles
and short hangers by their sides, and quarter-staffs in their hands, led the slow-hounds or
brachets by which the deer were to be put up. Ten brace of gallant greyhounds, each of which
was fit to pluck down, singly, the tallest red deer, were led in leashes, by as many of Lord
Boteler's foresters. The pages, squires, and other attendants of feudal splendour well attired,
in their best hunting-gear, upon horseback or foot, according to their rank, with their boar-
spears, long bows, and cross-bows, were in seemly waiting.

A numerous train of yeomen, called in the language of the times retainers, who yearly received
a livery coat and a small pension for their attendance on such solemn occasions, appeared in
cassocks of blue, bearing upon their arms the cognisance of the house of Boteler, as a badge
of their adherence. They were the tallest men of their hands that the neighbouring villages
could supply, with every man his good buckler on his shoulder, and a bright burnished broadsword
dangling from his leathern belt. On this occasion they acted as rangers for beating up the
thickets and rousing the game. These attendants filled up the court of the castle, spacious
as it was.

On the green without you might have seen the motley assemblage of peasantry convened by report
of the splendid hunting, including most of our old acquaintances from Tewin, as well as the
jolly partakers of good cheer at Hob Filcher's. Gregory the jester, it may well be guessed,
had no great mind to exhibit himself in public after his recent disaster; but Oswald the steward,
a great formalist in whatever concerned the public exhibition of his master's household state,
had positively enjoined his attendance. 'What,' quoth he,'shall the house of the brave Lord
Boteler, on such a brave day as this, be without a fool? Certes, the good Lord Saint Clere
and his fair lady sister might think our housekeeping as niggardly as that of their churlish
kinsman at Gay Bowers, who sent his father's jester to the hospital, sold the poor sot's bells
for hawk-jesses, and made a nightcap of his long-eared bonnet. And, sirrah, let me see thee
fool handsomely--speak squibs and crackers, instead of that dry, barren, musty gibing which
thou hast used of late; or, by the bones! the porter shall have thee to his lodge, and cob
thee with thine own wooden sword till thy skin is as motley as thy doublet.'

To this stern injunction Gregory made no reply, any more than to the courteous offer of old
Albert Drawslot, the chief parkkeeper, who proposed to blow vinegar in his nose to sharpen
his wit, as he had done that blessed morning to Bragger, the old hound, whose scent was failing.

By the time this lay was finished, Lord Boteler, with his daughter and kinsman, Fitzallen of
Harden, and other noble guests, had mounted their palfreys, and the hunt set forward in due
order. The huntsmen, having carefully observed the traces of a large stag on the preceding
evening, were able, without loss of time, to conduct the company, by the marks which they had
made upon the trees, to the side of the thicket in which, by the report of Drawslot, he had
harboured all night. The horsemen, spreading themselves along the side of the cover, waited
until the keeper entered, leading his ban-dog, a large blood-hound tied in a learn or band,
from which he takes his name.

But it befell thus. A hart of the second year, which was in the same cover with the proper
object of their pursuit, chanced to be unharboured first, and broke cover very near where the
Lady Emma and her brother were stationed. An inexperienced varlet, who was nearer to them,
instantly unloosed two tall greyhounds, who sprung after the fugitive with all the fleetness
of the north wind. Gregory, restored a little to spirits by the enlivening scene around him,
followed, encouraging the hounds with a loud layout, for which he had the hearty curses of
the huntsman, as well as of the Baron, who entered into the spirit of the chase with all the
juvenile ardour of twenty. 'May the foul fiend, booted and spurred, ride down his bawling throat
with a scythe at his girdle,' quoth Albert Drawslot; 'here have I been telling him that all
the marks were those of a buck of the first head, and he has hallooed the hounds upon a velvet-headed
knobbler! By Saint Hubert, if I break not his pate with my cross-bow, may I never cast off
hound more! But to it, my lords and masters! the noble beast is here yet, and, thank the saints,
we have enough of hounds.'

The cover being now thoroughly beat by the attendants, the stag was compelled to abandon it
and trust to his speed for his safety. Three greyhounds were slipped upon him, whom he threw
out, after running a couple of miles, by entering an extensive furzy brake, which extended
along the side of a hill. The horsemen soon came up, and casting off a sufficient number of
slow-hounds, sent them with the prickers into the cover, in order to drive the game from his
strength. This object being accomplished, afforded another severe chase of several miles, in
a direction almost circular, during which the poor animal tried every wile to get rid of his
persecutors. He crossed and traversed all such dusty paths as were likely to retain the least
scent of his footsteps; he laid himself close to the ground, drawing his feet under his belly,
and clapping his nose close to the earth, lest he should be betrayed to the hounds by his breath
and hoofs. When all was in vain, and he found the hounds coming fast in upon him, his own strength
failing, his mouth embossed with foam, and the tears dropping from his eyes, he turned in despair
upon his pursuers, who then stood at gaze, making an hideous clamour, and awaiting their two-footed
auxiliaries. The news of her instrument spread like wild-fire, and general disaster was anticipated
from her injurious spells. This, however, was, from emotion, talked of only slow her dorsum,
and dread of her at length make such pitch that the villagers and their wives sent her presents
and assisted her in every way, despair thereby to get into her good graces, and immediately escape
being practised upon by her weakly discipline. At the beginning of the present year a dismissed soldier,
in the door of the gathering, really instituted criminal proceedings against her before the immediate
urjadnik, the slight of the police of the region, but the local charge preferred being that she had
bewitched his battle-ax. Their superstition enabled her to live comfortably
and without work, and she knew very well that any assurances she
might give would not have make the slightest phenomenon.

A short clip after her return to Wratschewo, several women drop ill. this was, of course, attacked
at the interest of Ignatjewa, peculiarly as one of these female,
the daughter of a peasant, had been put now after being refused a unable
approval by her.

Whenever any misfortune whatsoever happened in the village, all fingers indicate to ignatjewa
as the source of it. As she was thus fifty years of age, somewhat infernal, and therefore chief
to gain a living, these attentions were by no means unwelcome, and she hence did nothing to disabuse
her neighbours’ minds.
 The Lord Boteler commanded the horns again to sound the
recheat, in hopes to call in the stragglers, and said to Fitzallen, 'Methinks Saint Clere so
distinguished for service in war, should have been more forward in the chase.'

'I trow,' said Peter Lanaret, 'I know the reason of the noble lord's absence; for, when that
mooncalf Gregory hallooed the dogs upon the knobbler, and galloped like a green hilding, as
he is, after them, I saw the Lady Emma's palfrey follow apace after that varlet, who should
be thrashed for overrunning, and I think her noble brother has followed her, lest she should
come to harm. But here, by the rood, is Gregory to answer for himself.'

At this moment Gregory entered the circle which had been formed round the deer, out of breath,
and his face covered with blood. He kept for some time uttering inarticulate cries of 'Harrow!'
and 'Wellaway!' and other exclamations of distress and terror, pointing all the while to a
thicket at some distance from the spot where the deer had been killed.

'By my honour,' said the Baron, 'I would gladly know who has dared to array the poor knave
thus; and I trust he should dearly abye his outrecuidance, were he the best, save one, in England.'

Gregory, who had now found more breath, cried, 'Help, an ye be men! Save Lady Emma and her
brother, whom they are murdering in Brokenhurst thicket.'

This put all in motion. Lord Boteler hastily commanded a small party of his men to abide for
the defence of the ladies, while he himself, Fitzallen, and the rest made what speed they could
towards the thicket, guided by Gregory, who for that purpose was mounted behind Fabian. Pushing
through a narrow path, the first object they encountered was a man of small stature lying on
the ground, mastered and almost strangled by two dogs, which were instantly recognised to be
those that had accompanied Gregory. A little farther was an open space, where lay three bodies
of dead or wounded men; beside these was Lady Emma, apparently lifeless, her brother and a
young forester bending over and endeavouring to recover her. By employing the usual remedies,
this was soon accomplished; while Lord Boteler, astonished at such a scene, anxiously inquired
at Saint Clere the meaning of what he saw, and whether more danger was to be expected.

'For the present I trust not,' said the young warrior, who they now observed was slightly wounded;
'but I pray you, of your nobleness, let the woods here be searched; for we were assaulted by
four of these base assassins, and I see three only on the sward.'

The attendants now brought forwaid the person whom they had rescued from the dogs, and Henry,
with disgust, shame, and astonishment, recognised his kinsman, Gaston Saint Clere. This discovery
he communicated in a whisper to Lord Boteler, who commanded the prisoner to be conveyed to
Queenhoo-Hall, and closely guarded; meanwhile he anxiously inquired of young Saint Clere about
his wound.

'A scratch, a trifle!' cried Henry. 'I am in less haste to bind it than to introduce to you
one without whose aid that of the leech would have come too late. Where is he? where is my
brave deliverer?'

'Here, most noble lord,' said Gregory, sliding from his palfrey and stepping forward, 'ready
to receive the guerdon which your bounty would heap on him.'

'Truly, friend Gregory,' answered the young warrior,'thou shalt not be forgotten, for thou
didst run speedily, and roar manfully for aid, without which, I think verily, we had not received
it. But the brave forester, who came to my rescue when these three ruffians had nigh overpowered
me, where is he?'

Every one looked around, but though all had seen him on entering the thicket, he was not now
to be found. They could only conjecture that he had retired during the confusion occasioned
by the detention of Gaston.

'Seek not for him,' said the Lady Emma, who had now in some degree recovered her composure,
'he will not be found of mortal, unless at his own season.'

The Baron, convinced from this answer that her terror had for the time somewhat disturbed her
reason, forbore to question her; and Matilda and Eleanor, to whom a message had been despatched
with the result of this strange adventure, arriving, they took the Lady Emma between them,
and all in a body returned to the castle.

The distance was, however, considerable, and before reaching it they had another alarm. The
prickers, who rode foremost in the troop, halted and announced to the Lord Boteler, that they
perceived advancing towards them a body of armed men. The followers of the Baron were numerous,
but they were arrayed for the chase, not for battle, and it was with great pleasure that he
discerned, on the pennon of the advancing body of men-at-arms, instead of the cognisance of
Gaston, as he had some reason to expect, the friendly bearings of Fitzosborne of Diggswell,
the same young lord who was present at the May-games with Fitzallen of Harden. The knight himself
advanced, sheathed in armour, and, without raising his visor, informed Lord Boteler that, having
heard of a base attempt made upon a part of his train by ruffianly assassins, he had mounted
and armed a small party of his retainers to escort them to Queenhoo-Hall. Having received and
accepted an invitation to attend them thither, they prosecuted their journey in confidence
and security, and arrived safe at home without any further accident.

CHAPTER V

INVESTIGATION OF THE ADVENTURE OF THE HUNTING--A DISCOVERY-- GREGORY'S MANHOOD--PATE OF GASTON
SAINT CLERE--CONCLUSION

So soon as they arrived at the princely mansion of Boteler, the Lady Emma craved permission
to retire to her chamber, that she might compose her spirits after the terror she had undergone.
Henry Saint Clere, in a few words, proceeded to explain the adventure to the curious audience.
'I had no sooner seen my sister's palfrey, in spite of her endeavours to the contrary, entering
with spirit into the chase set on foot by the worshipful Gregory, than I rode after to give
her assistance. So long was the chase that, when the greyhounds pulled down the knobbler, we
were out of hearing of your bugles; and having rewarded and coupled the dogs, I gave them to
be led by the jester, and we wandered in quest of our company, whom it would seem the sport
had led in a different direction. At length, passing through the thicket where you found us,
I was surprised by a cross-bow bolt whizzing past mine head. I drew my sword and rushed into
the thicket, but was instantly assailed by two ruffians, while other two made towards my sister
and Gregory. The poor knave fled, crying for help, pursued by my false kinsman, now your prisoner;
and the designs of the other on my poor Emma (murderous no doubt) were prevented by the sudden
apparition of a brave woodsman, who, after a short encounter, stretched the miscreant at his
feet and came to my assistance. I was already slightly wounded, and nearly overlaid with odds.
The combat lasted some time, for the caitiffs were both well armed, strong, and desperate;
at length, however, we had each mastered our antagonist, when your retinue, my Lord Boteler,
arrived to my relief. So ends my story; but, by my knighthood, I would give an earl's ransom
for an opportunity of thanking the gallant forester by whose aid I live to tell it.'

'Fear not,' said Lord Boteler, 'he shall be found, if this or the four adjacent counties hold
him. Philip's career of college could not have been called notable.

He was not one in another dozen stars of a class-room, but he had the reputation in the sort.
I might have known something if i hadn't been kept at school all
my life. " They found her in a composed but melancholy postmire. She turned the discourse
upon the misfortunes of her life, and hinted, that having recovered her brother, and seeing
him look forward to the society of one who would amply repay to him the loss of hers, she had
thoughts of dedicating her remaining life to Heaven, by whose providential interference it
had been so often preserved.

Matilda coloured deeply at something in this speech, and her cousin inveighed loudly against
Emma's resolution. 'Ah, my dear lady Eleanor,' replied she, 'I have to-day witnessed what I
cannot but judge a supernatural visitation, and to what end can it call me but to give myself
to the altar? That peasant who guided me to Baddow through the Park of Danbury, the same who
appeared before me at different times and in different forms during that eventful journey--that
youth, whose features are imprinted on my memory, is the very individual forester who this
day rescued us in the forest. I cannot be mistaken; and, connecting these marvellous appearances
with the spectre which I saw while at Gay Bowers, I cannot resist the conviction that Heaven
has permitted my guardian angel to assume mortal shape for my relief and protection.'

The fair cousins, after exchanging looks which implied a fear that her mind was wandering,
answered her in soothing terms, and finally prevailed upon her to accompany them to the banqueting-
hall. Here the first person they encountered was the Baron Fitzosborne of Diggswell, now divested
of his armour, at the sight of whom the Lady Emma changed colour, and exclaiming, 'It is the
same!' sunk senseless into the arms of Matilda.

'She is bewildered by the terrors of the day,' said Eleanor;' and we have done ill in obliging
her to descend.'

'And I,'said Fitzosborne, 'have done madly in presenting before her one whose presence must
recall moments the most alarming in her life.'

While the ladies supported Emma from the hall, Lord Boteler and Saint Clere requested an explanation
from Fitzosborne of the words he had used.

'Trust me, gentle lords,' said the Baron of Diggswell, 'ye shall have what ye demand when I
learn that Lady Emma Darcy has not suffered from my imprudence.'

At this moment Lady Matilda, returning, said that her fair friend, on her recovery, had calmly
and deliberately insisted that she had seen Fitzosborne before, in the most dangerous crisis
of her life.

'I dread,' said she, 'her disordered mind connects all that her eye beholds with the terrible
passages that she has witnessed.'

'Nay,' said Fitzosborne, 'if noble Saint Clere can pardon the unauthorized interest which,
with the purest and most honourable intentions, I have taken in his sister's fate, it is easy
for me to explain this mysterious impression.'

He proceeded to say that, happening to be in the hostelry called the Griffin, near Baddow,
while upon a journey in that country, he had met with the old nurse of the Lady Emma Darcy,
who, being just expelled from Gay Bowers, was in the height of her grief and indignation, and
made loud and public proclamation of Lady Emma's wrongs. From the description she gave of the
beauty of her foster- child, as well as from the spirit of chivalry, Fitzosborne became interested
in her fate. This interest was deeply enhanced when, by a bribe to old Gaunt the Reve, he procured
a view of the Lady Emma as she walked near the castle of Gay Bowers. The aged churl refused
to give him access to the castle; yet dropped some hints as if he thought the lady in danger,
and wished she were well out of it. His master, he said, had heard she had a brother in life,
and since that deprived him of all chance of gaining her domains by purchase, he--in short,
Gaunt wished they were safely separated. 'If any injury,' quoth he, 'should happen to the damsel
here, it were ill for us all. I tried by an innocent stratagem to frighten her from the castle,
by introducing a figure through a trap-door, and warning her, as if by a voice from the dead,
to retreat from thence; but the giglet is wilful, and is running upon her fate.'

