Much time was given to his English correspondents. Them he advised of the rapid development
of the States. He sent to some pictures of the country about him, and with much delight he
referred to the fact that Jefferson, whom he ardently admired, was now, in the closing weeks
of 1800, the President, and his associate--Aaron Burr, Vice-President. He announced to English
friends that the late administration, that of John Adams, was

      almost universally reprobated.

Mr. Jefferson, he insisted, "will do nothing rashly,"

    His being president may induce me to visit the federal city, and
      perhaps his seat in Virginia.

The seat of government, as may be inferred, had been removed to Washington from Philadelphia.
But to the latter center, which still offered many attractions, Priestley journeyed for the
third time early in 1801. He was not especially desirous of making this third visit, but as
his son and daughter came down a distance of 130 miles on business, he determined to accompany
them. True, Congress was no longer there, but there were many interesting people about with
whom he had great pleasure. With Bishop White, who was most orthodox and whom he saw frequently,
he enjoyed much "Christian and edifying conversation." John Andrews was another favorite. He
was a violent Federalist and informed Priestley that the latter

      had done them (the Federalists) more mischief than any other man,

yet these two noble spirits lived in amity, and Priestley several times announced that Dr.
Andrews was a Unitarian, which is not the thought today in regard to the latter.

It was an eventful year--this year of 1801. Much that was unexpected happened. It brought joy
and it brought sorrow.

Perhaps it would be just as well to note the scientific progress of the Doctor during this
year, for he gave forth the statement that he had succeeded in producing air by freezing water.
This production of air was one of his earlier ideas (p. 62), and now he wrote--

    The harder the frost was the more air I procured.

Further, he announced that on heating manganese (dioxide) in inflammable air

      no water is formed,

and what is rather astounding, he was certain that azote consisted of hydrogen and oxygen.

To the Medical Repository, which he regarded highly, there was sent a rather thoughtful disquisition
on dreams. In it the idea was expressed

      that dreams have their seat in some region of the brain more
      deeply seated than that which is occupied by our waking thoughts.

A "Pile of Volta" had been sent out from England. It amused him and he studied it carefully
when he was led to remark upon the theory of this curious process as follows:

    The operation wholly depends on the calcination of the zinc, which
      suffers a great diminution in weight, while the silver is little
      affected, and all metals lose their phlogiston in calcination,
      therefore what remains of the zinc in metallic form in the pile
      and everything connected with that end of it, is supersaturated
      with phlogiston.

More need not be quoted. It was phlogiston and that only which occasioned the electric current.
It may properly be added that in this connection he wrote:

    It is said the inventor of the galvanic pile discovered the
      conducting power of charcoal, whereas it was one of my first
      observations in electricity, made in 1766.

Some additional attention to air was also given by him, and in so doing he reached the conclusion
that

    The diamond and charcoal of copper are, as nearly as possible,
      pure phlogiston.

One wonders how he could so persuade himself, for these bodies surely possessed weight. Why
did he not rely more upon his balance?

With Woodhouse he discussed the product from passing water over heated charcoal. He had been
endeavoring to refute certain statements made by Cruikshank. There is no question but that
he had carbon monoxide in hand, and had it as early as 1799, and that he had obtained it in
several different ways. Observe this statement:

    I always found that the first portion of the heavy inflammable
      air, resulting from the passage of steam over heated charcoal was
      loaded with fixed air (CO2), but that in the course of the
      process this disappeared, the remaining air (CO) burning with a
      lambent flame.

Scarcely had Priestley set foot in Philadelphia on his third visitation than the Port Folio,
devoted usually to literature and biography, printed the following unkind words:

    The tricks of Dr. Priestley to embroil the government, and disturb
      the religion of his own country, have not the merit of novelty.

To which the Aurora replied:

    When Porcupine rioted in the filth of a debauched and corrupt
      faction in this city, no person experienced so much of his obscene
      and vulgar abuse as Dr. Priestley. There is not a single fact on
      record or capable of being shewn, to prove that Dr. Priestley was
      guilty of any other crime than being a dissenter from the church
      of England, and a warm friend of American Independence. For this
      he was abused by Porcupine--and Denny is only Porcupine with a
      little more tinsel to cover his dirt. It is worthy of remark, that
      after a whole sheet of promises of "literary lore" and "products
      of the master of spirits" of the nation--the first and second
      numbers of the Portable Foolery, are stuffed with extracts from
      British publications of an ordinary quality.

The attack of the Port Folio was most ungracious. It may have been due to irritation caused
by the appearance of a second edition of Priestley's "Letters to the Inhabitants of Northumberland."
Nevertheless the thoughtful and dignified men of the City--men who admired Priestley's broad
catholic spirit and brave attitude upon all debatable questions, men who appreciated his scientific
attainments, invited him to the following subscription dinner, as announced in the Aurora,
March, 6th:

    At 4 o'clock in the afternoon about one hundred citizens sat down
      to an elegant entertainment prepared by Mr. Francis to celebrate
      the commencement of the administration of Mr. Jefferson. The
      Governor honored the company with his presence. Several
      respectable Foreigners were invited to partake of the festival....
      A variety of patriotic songs were admirably sung; and the
      following toasts were drank with unanimous applause.

    1. The Governor of Pennsylvania

    2. Dr. Priestley: The Philosopher and Philanthropist....

He was present and enjoyed himself, and sad must it have been to read on March 30th:

    Some weeks ago, Dr. Priestley having caught cold by attending a
      meeting of the Philosophical Society on a wet evening, was taken
      ill of a violent inflammatory complaint which rendered his
      recovery for a long time dubious. We announce with sincere
      pleasure the returning health of a man, whose life hath hitherto
      been sedulously and successfully devoted to the interests of
      mankind.

He had, indeed, been very ill. The trouble was pleurisy. Dr. Rush was his physician. By his
order the patient was bled profusely seven times. During this trying and doubtful period there
came to him a cheery letter from President Jefferson who had only learned of his illness.

But Priestley journeyed homeward on April 13th, and en route wrote the following letter, addressed
to John Vaughan, Esq. 179 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.:

                                                April 17, 1801
                                          Reading, Friday Evening

  Dear Sir,

    I have the pleasure to inform you, agreeably to your kind request,
      that we are safely arrived at this place, my daughter better than
      when we left Philadelphia, and as to myself, I feel just as well,
      and as able to bear any fatigue, as before my late illness. This,
      however, will always remind me of your friendly attentions, and
      those of your sister, if a thousand and other circumstances did
      not do the same, and of them all I hope I shall ever retain a
      grateful remembrance.

    Along the whole road I am struck with the marks of an astonishing
      degree of improvement since I came this way four years ago. I do
      not think that any part of England is better cultivated, and at
      present the wheat is in a very promising state. I wish we may
      hear of that of England promising as well. Three years of such a
      scarcity is more than any country could bear, and you will believe
      me when I say that, if it was in my power, I would guard it not
      only from famine, but from every other calamity.

    With my daughter's kindest remembrance, I am, as ever

        Dear Sir
                            Yours sincerely,
                                J. PRIESTLEY.[8]

Resuming his correspondence with his numerous friends in England, he said:

      My chief resource is my daily occupation.

He also wrote Dr. Rush his thanks for having advised him to read Noah Webster's Pestilential
Disorders which follow the appearance of meteors and earthquakes, taking occasion also to excuse
his opposition to blood-letting,--

    I believe that I owe my life to your judicious direction of it. I
      shall never forget your so readily forgiving my suspicion, and my
      requesting the concurrence of Dr. Wistar after the third bleeding.
      It was his opinion as well as yours and Dr. Caldwell's, that my
      disorder required several more; and the completeness of my cure,
      and the speediness of my recovery, prove that you were right. In
      the future I shall never be afraid of the lancet when so
      judiciously directed.

To Rush he confided his doubts about his paper on Dreams. He cannot account for them, hence
he has offered merely an hypothesis, and continues--

    I frequently think with much pleasure and regret on the many happy
      hours I spent in your company, and wish we were not at so great
      distance. Such society would be the value of life to me. But I
      must acquiesce in what a wise providence has appointed.

His friends continued sending him books. And how joyously he received them. At times he would
mention special works, as for example,--

    Please to add Gate's Answer to Wall, and Wall's Reply; Sir John
      Pringle's Discourses and Life by Dr. Kippis; Chandler's Life of
      King David; Colin Milne's Botanical Dictionary, Botanic Dialogues,
      and other books of Natural History; Kirwan's Analysis of Mineral
      Waters; Crosby's History of English Baptists.

In one of his letters he observed--

    A person must be in my situation ... to judge of my feelings when
      I receive new books.

Strangely enough a box of books was sent him to Carlisle (Pa.) and had been there for two years
before he learned of it.

Perhaps a word more may be allowed in regard to the paper on Pestilential Disorders by Noah
Webster. This was the lexicographer. Priestley thought the work curious and important, but
the philosophy in it wild and absurd in the extreme. And of Rush he asks--

    Pray is he (Webster) a believer in revelation or not? I find
      several atheists catch at everything favourable to the doctrine of
      equivocal generation; but it must be reprobated by all who are
      not.

Chemists will be glad to hear that

    The annual expense of my laboratory will hardly exceed 50 pounds,
      and I think I may have done more in proportion to my expenses than
      any other man. What I have done here, and with little expense,
      will in time be thought very considerable; but on account of the
      almost universal reception of the new theory, what I do is not, at
      present, attended to; but Mr. Watt and Mr. Kier, as good chemists
      as any in Europe, approve of my tract on Phlogiston, and truth
      will in time prevail over any error.

And to another he said,

    Having had great success in my experiments in this country ... I
      shall never desert philosophy.

The following year (1802) had several points of interest in connection with the good Doctor;
for one, who has followed his career thus far, will wish to call him that.

Communications from the home country and from France, while not so numerous, were yet full
of interesting news. His friend Belsham brought out his Elements of Philosophy of the Mind,
and although Priestley paid it a most gracious tribute he did not hesitate to suggest alterations
and additions of various kinds. His dearest friend Lindsey fell seriously ill this year. This
gave him inexpressible anxiety and grief. As soon as Lindsey was, in a measure, restored the
fraternal correspondence was resumed.

Much time was given by the Doctor to reading and preparing for the press the volumes of his
Church History and Notes on the Scriptures. The printing was to be done in Northumberland.
Some doubt was entertained as to whether he would have funds sufficient to pay for the publication,
and when the urgent letters from friends tempted him to undertake a European trip he generally
replied that he was too far advanced in life, that the general debility produced by pernicious
ague rendered him unfit for extended travel, and then he offset the disappointment by saying
that the expense of the voyage would more than suffice for the printing of one of his proposed
four volumes of the Church History. This was a most complete, interesting and instructive work.
Even today one profits by its perusal and an immense fund of worthwhile information and knowledge
may be derived from even a cursory study of his Notes on the Scriptures.

The monotony of village life was broken by occasional letters from President Jefferson. These
were most affectionate and also illuminating on national matters. Copies of these were sent
to English friends with the injunction not to show them or permit them to fall into other hands.

Dr. Thomas Cooper was not with Priestley in this year (1802), being detained at Lancaster where
the Assembly sat. Naturally Cooper made himself conspicuous, and Priestley prophesied a great
future for him, providing that the jealousy entertained for foreigners did not prove too serious
an obstacle.

Priestley took much pleasure at this period in his garden, and wrote,

    Plants, as well as other objects, engage more of my attention than
      they ever did before.... I wish I knew a little more botany; but
      old, as I am, I learn something new continually.

Now and then he mentions a considerable degree of deafness, and sent to Philadelphia for a
speaking trumpet, but cheerily adds,

    I am, however, thankful that my eyes do not fail me.

Here and there occur plaints like these:

    Though my philosophical labours are nearly over, I am glad to hear
      what is passing in that region in which I once moved, though what
      I then did seems for the present to be overlooked and forgotten. I
      am confident, however, as much as I can be of anything, that
      notwithstanding the almost universal reception of the new theory,
      which is the cause of it, it is purely chimerical, and cannot keep
      its ground after a sufficient scrutiny, which may be deferred, but
      which must take place in time. I am glad to find that Mr.
      Cruikshank in England, as well as chemists in France, begin to
      attend to my objections, though the principal of them have been
      published many years; but, as you say, many will not read, and
      therefore they cannot know anything that makes against the
      opinions they have once adopted. Bigotry is not confined to
      theology.

The experimental work for the year was not very great. Probably this was the result of his
general physical weakness and in part it was due to his preoccupation with literary labours.
However, he did write out his results, obtained on heating "finery cinders and charcoal" and
thus emphasized the gaseous product of which he observes--

    It cannot be denied, however, that this gaseous oxyd of carbon
      (CO) is inflammable ... and is essentially different from all
      other oxyds, none of which are combustible.

Along in the month of November he wrote a vigorous protest against Cruikshank's explanation
of the mode of formation of carbon monoxide. In this polemic he of course threw into prominence
his precious phlogiston, the presence of which seemed unnecessary--but this was not so thought
by the Doctor, who also favored the Medical Repository with observations on the conversion
of iron into steel, in which there is but a single reference to phlogiston, but unfortunately
this single reference spoils the general argument and the correct and evident interpretation
of the reaction. It reads as follows:

    Iron is convertible into steel by imbibing only phlogiston from
      the charcoal with which it is cemented.

There are abundant correct observations. Their interpretation sadly enough is very false, all
because of the persistent introduction of phlogiston where it was not essential.

Priestley advised Rush that because of an unhealthy season he had suffered very much from ague,
and said,--

    Tho' I was never robust, I hardly knew what sickness was before my
      seizure in Philadelphia, but the old building has since that had
      so many shocks, that I am apprehensive it will ere long give way.
      But I have abundant reason to be satisfied, and shall retire from
      life conviva satur.

Devotion to work was on the part of Priestley, something marvelous. As his son and daughter-in-law
were drawn to Philadelphia in February, 1803, they carried their father with them. He was rather
indisposed to this, yet he disliked remaining alone at home notwithstanding the printing of
the Church History required considerable personal attention. The marvelous part of it all was
that while in Philadelphia, on this his fourth and last visit, while he fraternized with congenial
souls and even presented himself at various social functions, he yet found leisure to print
his little volume entitled "Socrates and Jesus Compared," which gave much pleasure to President
Jefferson, so much indeed that he hoped Priestley would,--

      take up the subject on a more extended scale, and show that Jesus
      was truly the most innocent, most benevolent, the most eloquent
      and sublime character that has ever been exhibited to man.

Jefferson's genuine approval of his effort was balm to Priestley's soul. He, of course, wrote
Lindsey and Belsham about it; yes, copied the letter of Jefferson and sent the same to them
with the comment,--

    He is generally considered as an unbeliever. If so, however, he
      cannot be far from us, and I hope in the way to be not only
      almost, but altogether what we are.

It was February 28, 1803, that the august members of the American Philosophical Society resolved:

    That this Society will dine together on Saturday next, and that J.
      B. Smith, Wistar, Williams, Hewson & Vaughan be a Committee to
      make the necessary arrangements for that purpose and to request
      Dr. Priestley's company, informing him that the Society are
      induced to make the request from their high respect for his
      Philosophical Labours & discoveries, & to enjoy the more
      particular pleasure of a social meeting--The Dinner to be prepared
      at the City Tavern or Farmer's Hotel.

It was this resolution which caused notices, such as the following to go out to the distinguished
membership of the venerable Society--

                                Philadelphia, March 2, 1803

    Sir: You are hereby invited to join the other members of the
      American Philosophical Society, in giving a testimony of respect,
      to their venerable associate Dr. Joseph Priestley, who dines with
      them on Saturday next at Francis' Hotel--Dinner on table at 3
      o'clock.

                                        C. Wistar
                                        J. Williams
                                        J. R. Smith
                                        T. T. Hewson
                                        J. Vaughan
                                        Committee

    An answer will be called for tomorrow morning.
    DR. RUSH

It was a very dignified and brilliant company. Law, medicine, theology, science, commerce represented
by very worthy and excellent gentlemen. And, among them sat the modest, unassuming, versatile
Priestley. That he was happy in his surroundings there is ample reason to believe. He loved
to be among men. He, too, was appreciated and eagerly sought because of his winning ways, his
tolerance and liberality. He was moderately convivial though

    He said that one glass of wine at dinner was enough for an old
      man, but he did not prescribe his own practice as an universal
      rule.

About eight weeks were spent in the City. On return to the dear country home the doctor took
up his various duties and burdens, but the infirmities of age were often alluded to by him,
and they no doubt delayed all of his work, which was further aggravated by a dangerous fall
on his left hip and strain of the muscles of the thigh. He was extremely lame and for some
time went about on crutches, which held him out of his laboratory. To him this was very trying.
But he persisted. He was truly a splendid example for the younger aspirants for scientific
honors. During the year he entered on a controversial article with his old friend Erasmus Darwin
upon the subject of spontaneous combustion, and subsequently communicated to the Medical Repository
an account of the conversion of salt into nitre. He had positive knowledge of this fact for
quite a little while, and upon the occasion of a visit by Dr. Wistar, told the latter concerning
this with the request that no mention be made of it, evidently that he might have opportunity
for additional confirmation. However, very unexpectedly, Dr. Mitchill published something of
a similar character, therefore Priestley believing that he ought "to acquaint experimentalists
in general with all that I know of the matter," announced that in 1799 when experimenting on
the formation of air from water,

      having made use of the same salt, mixed with snow, in every
      experiment, always evaporating the mixture the salt was recovered
      dry. I collected the salt when I had done with it, and put it into
      a glass bottle, with a label expressing what it was, and what use
      had been made of it.

Subsequently he treated this salt, after many applications of it, with sulphuric acid, when
he remarked--

    I was soon surprized to observe that red vapours rose from it.

An examination of another portion of the salt showed--

      that when it was thrown upon hot coals ... it burned exactly like
      nitre.

So it was a conversion of sodium chloride into sodium nitrate. That this change must have come
from the snow with which it had been dissolved, could not be doubted, and he further observed--

