ITALIAN HOURS

BY

HENRY JAMES

PUBLISHED NOVEMBER 1909

PREFACE

The chapters of which this volume is composed have with few exceptions already been collected,
and were then associated with others commemorative of other impressions of (no very extensive)
excursions and wanderings. The notes on various visits to Italy are here for the first time
exclusively placed together, and as they largely refer to quite other days than these--the
date affixed to each paper sufficiently indicating this--I have introduced a few passages that
speak for a later and in some cases a frequently repeated vision of the places and scenes in
question. I have not hesitated to amend my text, expressively, wherever it seemed urgently
to ask for this, though I have not pretended to add the element of information or the weight
of curious and critical insistence to a brief record of light inquiries and conclusions. The
fond appeal of the observer concerned is all to aspects and appearances--above all to the interesting
face of things as it mainly <i>used</i> to be.

H. J.

CONTENTS

VENICE THE GRAND CANAL VENICE: AN EARLY IMPRESSION TWO OLD HOUSES AND THREE YOUNG WOMEN CASA
AL VISI FROM CHAMBERY TO MILAN THE OLD SAINT-GOTHARD ITALY REVISITED A ROMAN HOLIDAY ROMAN
RIDES ROMAN NEIGHBOURHOODS THE AFTER-SEASON IN ROME FROM A ROMAN NOTE-BOOK A FEW OTHER ROMAN
NEIGHBOURHOODS A CHAIN OF CITIES SIENA EARLY AND LATE THE AUTUMN IN FLORENCE FLORENTINE NOTES
TUSCAN CITIES OTHER TUSCAN CITIES RAVENNA THE SAINT'S AFTERNOON AND OTHERS

ILLUSTRATIONS

THE HARBOUR, GENOA (Frontispiece) FLAGS AT ST. MARK'S, VENICE A NARROW CANAL, VENICE PALAZZO
MOCENIGO, VENICE THE AMPHITHEATRE, VERONA CASA ALVISI, VENICE THE SIMPLON GATE, MILAN THE CLOCK
TOWER, BERNE UNDER THE ARCADES, TURIN ROMAN GATEWAY, RIMINI SANTA MARIA NOVELLA, FLORENCE THE
FACADE OF ST. JOHN LATERAN, ROME THE COLONNADE OF ST. PETER'S, ROME CASTEL GANDOLFO ENTRANCE
TO THE VATICAN, ROME VILLA D' ESTE, TIVOLI SUBIACO ASSISI PERUGIA ETRUSCAN GATEWAY, PERUGIA
A STREET, CORTONA THE RED PALACE, SIENA SAN DOMENICO, SIENA ON THE ARNO, FLORENCE THE GREAT
EAVES, FLORENCE BOBOLI GARDENS, FLORENCE THE HOSPITAL, PISTOIA THE LOGGIA, LUCCA TOWERS OF
SAN GIMIGNANO SAN APOLLINARE NUOVO, RAVENNA RAVENNA PINETA TERRACINA

VENICE

It is a great pleasure to write the word; but I am not sure there is not a certain impudence
in pretending to add anything to it. Venice has been painted and described many thousands of
times, and of all the cities of the world is the easiest to visit without going there. Open
the first book and you will find a rhapsody about it; step into the first picture-dealer's
and you will find three or four high-coloured "views" of it. There is notoriously nothing more
to be said on the subject. Every one has been there, and every one has brought back a collection
of photographs. There is as little mystery about the Grand Canal as about our local thoroughfare,
and the name of St. Mark is as familiar as the postman's ring. It is not forbidden, however,
to speak of familiar things, and I hold that for the true Venice- lover Venice is always in
order. There is nothing new to be said about her certainly, but the old is better than any
novelty. It would be a sad day indeed when there should be something new to say. I write these
lines with the full consciousness of having no information whatever to offer. I do not pretend
to enlighten the reader; I pretend only to give a fillip to his memory; and I hold any writer
sufficiently justified who is himself in love with his theme.

I

Mr. Ruskin has given it up, that is very true; but only after extracting half a lifetime of
pleasure and an immeasurable quantity of fame from it. We all may do the same, after it has
served our turn, which it probably will not cease to do for many a year to come. Meantime it
is Mr. Ruskin who beyond anyone helps us to enjoy. He has indeed lately produced several aids
to depression in the shape of certain little humorous--ill-humorous-- pamphlets (the series
of <i>St. Mark's Rest</i>) which embody his latest reflections on the subject of our city and
describe the latest atrocities perpetrated there. These latter are numerous and deeply to be
deplored; but to admit that they have spoiled Venice would be to admit that Venice may be spoiled--an
admission pregnant, as it seems to us, with disloyalty. Fortunately one reacts against the
Ruskinian contagion, and one hour of the lagoon is worth a hundred pages of demoralised prose.
This queer late-coming prose of Mr. Ruskin (including the revised and condensed issue of the
<i>Stones of Venice</i>, only one little volume of which has been published, or perhaps ever
will be) is all to be read, though much of it appears addressed to children of tender age.
It is pitched in the nursery-key, and might be supposed to emanate from an angry governess.
It is, however, all suggestive, and much of it is delightfully just. There is an inconceivable
want of form in it, though the author has spent his life in laying down the principles of form
and scolding people for departing from them; but it throbs and flashes with the love of his
subject--a love disconcerted and abjured, but which has still much of the force of inspiration.
Among the many strange things that have befallen Venice, she has had the good fortune to become
the object of a passion to a man of splendid genius, who has made her his own and in doing
so has made her the world's. There is no better reading at Venice therefore, as I say, than
Ruskin, for every true Venice-lover can separate the wheat from the chaff. The narrow theological
spirit, the moralism <i>a tout propos</i>, the queer provincialities and pruderies, are mere
wild weeds in a mountain of flowers. One may doubtless be very happy in Venice without reading
at all--without criticising or analysing or thinking a strenuous thought. It is a city in which,
I suspect, there is very little strenuous thinking, and yet it is a city in which there must
be almost as much happiness as misery. The misery of Venice stands there for all the world
to see; it is part of the spectacle--a thoroughgoing devotee of local colour might consistently
say it is part of the pleasure. The Venetian people have little to call their own--little more
than the bare privilege of leading their lives in the most beautiful of towns. Their habitations
are decayed; their taxes heavy; their pockets light; their opportunities few. One receives
an impression, however, that life presents itself to them with attractions not accounted for
in this meagre train of advantages, and that they are on better terms with it than many people
who have made a better bargain. They lie in the sunshine; they dabble in the sea; they wear
bright rags; they fall into attitudes and harmonies; they assist at an eternal <i>conversazione</i>.
It is not easy to say that one would have them other than they are, and it certainly would
make an immense difference should they be better fed. The number of persons in Venice who evidently
never have enough to eat is painfully large; but it would be more painful if we did not equally
perceive that the rich Venetian temperament may bloom upon a dog's allowance. Nature has been
kind to it, and sunshine and leisure and conversation and beautiful views form the greater
part of its sustenance. It takes a great deal to make a successful American, but to make a
happy Venetian takes only a handful of quick sensibility. The Italian people have at once the
good and the evil fortune to be conscious of few wants; so that if the civilisation of a society
is measured by the number of its needs, as seems to be the common opinion to-day, it is to
be feared that the children of the lagoon would make but a poor figure in a set of comparative
tables. Not their misery, doubtless, but the way they elude their misery, is what pleases the
sentimental tourist, who is gratified by the sight of a beautiful race that lives by the aid
of its imagination. The way to enjoy Venice is to follow the example of these people and make
the most of simple pleasures. Almost all the pleasures of the place are simple; this may be
maintained even under the imputation of ingenious paradox. There is no simpler pleasure than
looking at a fine Titian, unless it be looking at a fine Tintoret or strolling into St. Mark's,--abominable
the way one falls into the habit,--and resting one's light-wearied eyes upon the windowless
gloom; or than floating in a gondola or than hanging over a balcony or than taking one's coffee
at Florian's. It is of such superficial pastimes that a Venetian day is composed, and the pleasure
of the matter is in the emotions to which they minister. These are fortunately of the finest--
otherwise Venice would be insufferably dull. Reading Ruskin is good; reading the old records
is perhaps better; but the best thing of all is simply staying on. The only way to care for
Venice as she deserves it is to give her a chance to touch you often--to linger and remain
and return.

II

The danger is that you will not linger enough--a danger of which the author of these lines
had known something. It is possible to dislike Venice, and to entertain the sentiment in a
responsible and intelligent manner. There are travellers who think the place odious, and those
who are not of this opinion often find themselves wishing that the others were only more numerous.
The sentimental tourist's sole quarrel with his Venice is that he has too many competitors
there. He likes to be alone; to be original; to have (to himself, at least) the air of making
discoveries. The Venice of to-day is a vast museum where the little wicket that admits you
is perpetually turning and creaking, and you march through the institution with a herd of fellow-gazers.
There is nothing left to discover or describe, and originality of attitude is completely impossible.
This is often very annoying; you can only turn your back on your impertinent playfellow and
curse his want of delicacy. But this is not the fault of Venice; it is the fault of the rest
of the world. The fault of Venice is that, though she is easy to admire, she is not so easy
to live with as you count living in other places. After you have stayed a week and the bloom
of novelty has rubbed off you wonder if you can accommodate yourself to the peculiar conditions.
Your old habits become impracticable and you find yourself obliged to form new ones of an undesirable
and unprofitable character. You are tired of your gondola (or you think you are) and you have
seen all the principal pictures and heard the names of the palaces announced a dozen times
by your gondolier, who brings them out almost as impressively as if he were an English butler
bawling titles into a drawing-room. You have walked several hundred times round the Piazza
and bought several bushels of photographs. You have visited the antiquity mongers whose horrible
sign-boards dishonour some of the grandest vistas in the Grand Canal; you have tried the opera
and found it very bad; you have bathed at the Lido and found the water flat. You have begun
to have a shipboard-feeling--to regard the Piazza as an enormous saloon and the Riva degli
Schiavoni as a promenade-deck. You are obstructed and encaged; your desire for space is unsatisfied;
you miss your usual exercise. You try to take a walk and you fail, and meantime, as I say,
you have come to regard your gondola as a sort of magnified baby's cradle. You have no desire
to be rocked to sleep, though you are sufficiently kept awake by the irritation produced, as
you gaze across the shallow lagoon, by the attitude of the perpetual gondolier, with his turned-out
toes, his protruded chin, his absurdly unscientific stroke. The canals have a horrible smell,
and the everlasting Piazza, where you have looked repeatedly at every article in every shop-window
and found them all rubbish, where the young Venetians who sell bead bracelets and "panoramas"
are perpetually thrusting their wares at you, where the same tightly-buttoned officers are
for ever sucking the same black weeds, at the same empty tables, in front of the same cafes--the
Piazza, as I say, has resolved itself into a magnificent tread-mill. This is the state of mind
of those shallow inquirers who find Venice all very well for a week; and if in such a state
of mind you take your departure you act with fatal rashness. The loss is your own, moreover;
it is not--with all deference to your personal attractions--that of your companions who remain
behind; for though there are some disagreeable things in Venice there is nothing so disagreeable
as the visitors. The conditions are peculiar, but your intolerance of them evaporates before
it has had time to become a prejudice. When you have called for the bill to go, pay it and
remain, and you will find on the morrow that you are deeply attached to Venice. It is by living
there from day to day that you feel the fulness of her charm; that you invite her exquisite
influence to sink into your spirit. The creature varies like a nervous woman, whom you know
only when you know all the aspects of her beauty. She has high spirits or low, she is pale
or red, grey or pink, cold or warm, fresh or wan, according to the weather or the hour. She
is always interesting and almost always sad; but she has a thousand occasional graces and is
always liable to happy accidents. You become extraordinarily fond of these things; you count
upon them; they make part of your life. Tenderly fond you become; there is something indefinable
in those depths of personal acquaintance that gradually establish themselves. The place seems
to personify itself, to become human and sentient and conscious of your affection. You desire
to embrace it, to caress it, to possess it; and finally a soft sense of possession grows up
and your visit becomes a perpetual love-affair. It is very true that if you go, as the author
of these lines on a certain occasion went, about the middle of March, a certain amount of disappointment
is possible. He had paid no visit for several years, and in the interval the beautiful and
helpless city had suffered an increase of injury. The barbarians are in full possession and
you tremble for what they may do. You are reminded from the moment of your arrival that Venice
scarcely exists any more as a city at all; that she exists only as a battered peep- show and
bazaar. There was a horde of savage Germans encamped in the Piazza, and they filled the Ducal
Palace and the Academy with their uproar. The English and Americans came a little later. They
came in good time, with a great many French, who were discreet enough to make very long repasts
at the Caffe Quadri, during which they were out of the way. The months of April and May of
the year 1881 were not, as a general thing, a favourable season for visiting the Ducal Palace
and the Academy. The <i>valet-de- place</i> had marked them for his own and held triumphant
possession of them. He celebrates his triumphs in a terrible brassy voice, which resounds all
over the place, and has, whatever language he be speaking, the accent of some other idiom.
During all the spring months in Venice these gentry abound in the great resorts, and they lead
their helpless captives through churches and galleries in dense irresponsible groups. They
infest the Piazza; they pursue you along the Riva; they hang about the bridges and the doors
of the cafes. In saying just now that I was disappointed at first, I had chiefly in mind the
impression that assails me to-day in the whole precinct of St. Mark's. The condition of this
ancient sanctuary is surely a great scandal. The pedlars and commissioners ply their trade--often
a very unclean one--at the very door of the temple; they follow you across the threshold, into
the sacred dusk, and pull your sleeve, and hiss into your ear, scuffling with each other for
customers. There is a great deal of dishonour about St. Mark's altogether, and if Venice, as
I say, has become a great bazaar, this exquisite edifice is now the biggest booth.

III

It is treated as a booth in all ways, and if it had not somehow a great spirit of solemnity
within it the traveller would soon have little warrant for regarding it as a religious affair.
The restoration of the outer walls, which has lately been so much attacked and defended, is
certainly a great shock. Of the necessity of the work only an expert is, I suppose, in a position
to judge; but there is no doubt that, if a necessity it be, it is one that is deeply to be
regretted. To no more distressing necessity have people of taste lately had to resign themselves.
Wherever the hand of the restorer has been laid all semblance of beauty has vanished; which
is a sad fact, considering that the external loveliness of St. Mark's has been for ages less
impressive only than that of the still comparatively uninjured interior. I know not what is
the measure of necessity in such a case, and it appears indeed to be a very delicate question.
To- day, at any rate, that admirable harmony of faded mosaic and marble which, to the eye of
the traveller emerging from the narrow streets that lead to the Piazza, filled all the further
end of it with a sort of dazzling silver presence--to-day this lovely vision is in a way to
be completely reformed and indeed well-nigh abolished. The old softness and mellowness of colour--
the work of the quiet centuries and of the breath of the salt sea--is giving way to large crude
patches of new material which have the effect of a monstrous malady rather than of a restoration
to health. They look like blotches of red and white paint and dishonourable smears of chalk
on the cheeks of a noble matron. The face toward the Piazzetta is in especial the newest- looking
thing conceivable--as new as a new pair of boots or as the morning's paper. We do not profess,
however, to undertake a scientific quarrel with these changes; we admit that our complaint
is a purely sentimental one. The march of industry in united Italy must doubtless be looked
at as a whole, and one must endeavour to believe that it is through innumerable lapses of taste
that this deeply interesting country is groping her way to her place among the nations. For
the present, it is not to be denied, certain odd phases of the process are more visible than
the result, to arrive at which it seems necessary that, as she was of old a passionate votary
of the beautiful, she should to- day burn everything that she has adored. It is doubtless too
soon to judge her, and there are moments when one is willing to forgive her even the restoration
of St. Mark's. Inside as well there has been a considerable attempt to make the place more
tidy; but the general effect, as yet, has not seriously suffered. What I chiefly remember is
the straightening out of that dark and rugged old pavement--those deep undulations of primitive
mosaic in which the fond spectator was thought to perceive an intended resemblance to the waves
of the ocean. Whether intended or not the analogy was an image the more in a treasure-house
of images; but from a considerable portion of the church it has now disappeared. Throughout
the greater part indeed the pavement remains as recent generations have known it--dark, rich,
cracked, uneven, spotted with porphyry and time-blackened malachite, polished by the knees
of innumerable worshippers; but in other large stretches the idea imitated by the restorers
is that of the ocean in a dead calm, and the model they have taken the floor of a London club-house
or of a New York hotel. I think no Venetian and scarcely any Italian cares much for such differences;
and when, a year ago, people in England were writing to the <i>Times</i> about the whole business
and holding meetings to protest against it the dear children of the lagoon--so far as they
heard or heeded the rumour--thought them partly busy-bodies and partly asses. Busy-bodies they
doubtless were, but they took a good deal of disinterested trouble. It never occurs to the
Venetian mind of to-day that such trouble may be worth taking; the Venetian mind vainly endeavours
to conceive a state of existence in which personal questions are so insipid that people have
to look for grievances in the wrongs of brick and marble. I must not, however, speak of St.
Mark's as if I had the pretension of giving a description of it or as if the reader desired
one. The reader has been too well served already. It is surely the best-described building
in the world. Open the <i>Stones of Venice</i>, open Theophile Gautier's <i>ltalia</i>, and
you will see. These writers take it very seriously, and it is only because there is another
way of taking it that I venture to speak of it; the way that offers itself after you have been
in Venice a couple of months, and the light is hot in the great Square, and you pass in under
the pictured porticoes with a feeling of habit and friendliness and a desire for something
cool and dark. There are moments, after all, when the church is comparatively quiet and empty,
and when you may sit there with an easy consciousness of its beauty. From the moment, of course,
that you go into any Italian church for any purpose but to say your prayers or look at the
ladies, you rank yourself among the trooping barbarians I just spoke of; you treat the place
as an orifice in the peep- show. Still, it is almost a spiritual function--or, at the worst,
an amorous one--to feed one's eyes on the molten colour that drops from the hollow vaults and
thickens the air with its richness. It is all so quiet and sad and faded and yet all so brilliant
and living. The strange figures in the mosaic pictures, bending with the curve of niche and
vault, stare down through the glowing dimness; the burnished gold that stands behind them catches
the light on its little uneven cubes. St. Mark's owes nothing of its character to the beauty
of proportion or perspective; there is nothing grandly balanced or far-arching; there are no
long lines nor triumphs of the perpendicular. The church arches indeed, but arches like a dusky
cavern. Beauty of surface, of tone, of detail, of things near enough to touch and kneel upon
and lean against--it is from this the effect proceeds. In this sort of beauty the place is
incredibly rich, and you may go there every day and find afresh some lurking pictorial nook.
It is a treasury of bits, as the painters say; and there are usually three or four of the fraternity
with their easels set up in uncertain equilibrium on the undulating floor. It is not easy to
catch the real complexion of St. Mark's, and these laudable attempts at portraiture are apt
to look either lurid or livid. But if you cannot paint the old loose-looking marble slabs,
the great panels of basalt and jasper, the crucifixes of which the lonely anguish looks deeper
in the vertical light, the tabernacles whose open doors disclose a dark Byzantine image spotted
with dull, crooked gems--if you cannot paint these things you can at least grow fond of them.
You grow fond even of the old benches of red marble, partly worn away by the breeches of many
generations and attached to the base of those wide pilasters of which the precious plating,
delightful in its faded brownness, with a faint grey bloom upon it, bulges and yawns a little
with honourable age.

IV

Even at first, when the vexatious sense of the city of the Doges reduced to earning its living
as a curiosity-shop was in its keenness, there was a great deal of entertainment to be got
from lodging on Riva Schiavoni and looking out at the far-shimmering lagoon. There was entertainment
indeed in simply getting into the place and observing the queer incidents of a Venetian installation.
A great many persons contribute indirectly to this undertaking, and it is surprising how they
spring out at you during your novitiate to remind you that they are bound up in some mysterious
manner with the constitution of your little establishment. It was an interesting problem for
instance to trace the subtle connection existing between the niece of the landlady and the
occupancy of the fourth floor. Superficially it was none too visible, as the young lady in
question was a dancer at the Fenice theatre--or when that was closed at the Rossini-- and might
have been supposed absorbed by her professional duties. It proved necessary, however, that
she should hover about the premises in a velvet jacket and a pair of black kid gloves with
one little white button; as also, that she should apply a thick coating of powder to her face,
which had a charming oval and a sweet weak expression, like that of most of the Venetian maidens,
who, as a general thing--it was not a peculiarity of the land- lady's niece--are fond of besmearing
themselves with flour. You soon recognise that it is not only the many-twinkling lagoon you
behold from a habitation on the Riva; you see a little of everything Venetian. Straight across,
before my windows, rose the great pink mass of San Giorgio Maggiore, which has for an ugly
Palladian church a success beyond all reason. It is a success of position, of colour, of the
immense detached Campanile, tipped with a tall gold angel. I know not whether it is because
San Giorgio is so grandly conspicuous, with a great deal of worn, faded-looking brickwork;
but for many persons the whole place has a kind of suffusion of rosiness. Asked what may be
the leading colour in the Venetian concert, we should inveterately say Pink, and yet without
remembering after all that this elegant hue occurs very often. It is a faint, shimmering, airy,
watery pink; the bright sea-light seems to flush with it and the pale whiteish-green of lagoon
and canal to drink it in. There is indeed a great deal of very evident brickwork, which is
never fresh or loud in colour, but always burnt out, as it were, always exquisitely mild.

Certain little mental pictures rise before the collector of memories at the simple mention,
written or spoken, of the places he has loved. When I hear, when I see, the magical name I
have written above these pages, it is not of the great Square that I think, with its strange
basilica and its high arcades, nor of the wide mouth of the Grand Canal, with the stately steps
and the well- poised dome of the Salute; it is not of the low lagoon, nor the sweet Piazzetta,
nor the dark chambers of St. Mark's. I simply see a narrow canal in the heart of the city--a
patch of green water and a surface of pink wall. The gondola moves slowly; it gives a great
smooth swerve, passes under a bridge, and the gondolier's cry, carried over the quiet water,
makes a kind of splash in the stillness. A girl crosses the little bridge, which has an arch
like a camel's back, with an old shawl on her head, which makes her characteristic and charming;
you see her against the sky as you float beneath. The pink of the old wall seems to fill the
whole place; it sinks even into the opaque water. Behind the wall is a garden, out of which
the long arm of a white June rose--the roses of Venice are splendid--has flung itself by way
of spontaneous ornament. On the other side of this small water- way is a great shabby facade
of Gothic windows and balconies-- balconies on which dirty clothes are hung and under which
a cavernous-looking doorway opens from a low flight of slimy water- steps. It is very hot and
still, the canal has a queer smell, and the whole place is enchanting.

It is poor work, however, talking about the colour of things in Venice. The fond spectator
is perpetually looking at it from his window, when he is not floating about with that delightful
sense of being for the moment a part of it, which any gentleman in a gondola is free to entertain.
Venetian windows and balconies are a dreadful lure, and while you rest your elbows on these
cushioned ledges the precious hours fly away. But in truth Venice isn't in fair weather a place
for concentration of mind. The effort required for sitting down to a writing-table is heroic,
and the brightest page of MS. looks dull beside the brilliancy of your <i>milieu</i>. All nature
beckons you forth and murmurs to you sophistically that such hours should be devoted to collecting
impressions. Afterwards, in ugly places, at unprivileged times, you can convert your impressions
into prose. Fortunately for the present proser the weather wasn't always fine; the first month
was wet and windy, and it was better to judge of the matter from an open casement than to respond
to the advances of persuasive gondoliers. Even then however there was a constant entertainment
in the view. It was all cold colour, and the steel-grey floor of the lagoon was stroked the
wrong way by the wind. Then there were charming cool intervals, when the churches, the houses,
the anchored fishing-boats, the whole gently-curving line of the Riva, seemed to be washed
with a pearly white. Later it all turned warm--warm to the eye as well as to other senses.
After the middle of May the whole place was in a glow. The sea took on a thousand shades, but
they were only infinite variations of blue, and those rosy walls I just spoke of began to flush
in the thick sunshine. Every patch of colour, every yard of weather- stained stucco, every
glimpse of nestling garden or daub of sky above a <i>calle</i>, began to shine and sparkle--began,
as the painters say, to "compose." The lagoon was streaked with odd currents, which played
across it like huge smooth finger-marks. The gondolas multiplied and spotted it allover; every
gondola and gondolier looking, at a distance, precisely like every other.

There is something strange and fascinating in this mysterious impersonality of the gondola.
It has an identity when you are in it, but, thanks to their all being of the same size, shape
and colour, and of the same deportment and gait, it has none, or as little as possible, as
you see it pass before you. From my windows on the Riva there was always the same silhouette--the
long, black, slender skiff, lifting its head and throwing it back a little, moving yet seeming
not to move, with the grotesquely- graceful figure on the poop. This figure inclines, as may
be, more to the graceful or to the grotesque--standing in the "second position" of the dancing-master,
but indulging from the waist upward in a freedom of movement which that functionary would deprecate.
One may say as a general thing that there is something rather awkward in the movement even
of the most graceful gondolier, and something graceful in the movement of the most awkward.
In the graceful men of course the grace predominates, and nothing can be finer than the large,
firm way in which, from their point of vantage, they throw themselves over their tremendous
oar. It has the boldness of a plunging bird and the regularity of a pendulum. Sometimes, as
you see this movement in profile, in a gondola that passes you--see, as you recline on your
own low cushions, the arching body of the gondolier lifted up against the sky--it has a kind
of nobleness which suggests an image on a Greek frieze. The gondolier at Venice is your very
good friend--if you choose him happily--and on the quality of the personage depends a good
deal that of your impressions. He is a part of your daily life, your double, your shadow, your
complement. Most people, I think, either like their gondolier or hate him; and if they like
him, like him very much. In this case they take an interest in him after his departure; wish
him to be sure of employment, speak of him as the gem of gondoliers and tell their friends
to be certain to "secure" him. There is usually no difficulty in securing him; there is nothing
elusive or reluctant about a gondolier. My speciality is that I treat everyone to be equal and
to be my own.
The public has created my picture.My instruction is wise in the caswe of liberty, truth, essence.Moreover
I disdain to introduce even the little common and provincial rules
into the list of real dutieswhich comes under the category of civility
and ceremony,though not legal.Surely, the vices of appearance will
be had by us when those essence is had by us.After having done these,the
others are fully driven upon by us,when found that it must be so,as
there is a danger that new offices shall be fancied by usto excuse
for the natural one's negligence.In order to confound and manifest
it,have we not found that where faults are crimes' crimes are faults?We
observe the primitive laws of common reason in nations where we find
laws of decency to be most rare and remiss.

Our care is being stifled and dissipated by the innumerable multitude of duties.
We are being diverted from the necessary and just by our application to light and trivial things.

When compared to ours, these superficial mentake an easy and plausible way.
We palliate and pay one another with those shadows. Though we don't pay,but towards that great
judge, the reckoning is inflamed,the rags and tatters above our shameful parts are being tucked,without
viewing us all over,even our inmost and most secret ordures.To keep him from this discovery
is a decency of our maidenly modesty.
No great disservice would be done to reclaim a man fromso scrupulous a verbalo superstition.

It saves a world of trouble, and they don't like trouble. Their delightful garrulous language
helps them to make Venetian life a long <i>conversazione</i>. This language, with its soft
elisions, its odd transpositions, its kindly contempt for consonants and other disagreeables,
has in it something peculiarly human and accommodating. If your gondolier had no other merit
he would have the merit that he speaks Venetian. This may rank as a merit even- -some people
perhaps would say especially--when you don't understand what he says. But he adds to it other
graces which make him an agreeable feature in your life. The price he sets on his services
is touchingly small, and he has a happy art of being obsequious without being, or at least
without seeming, abject. For occasional liberalities he evinces an almost lyrical gratitude.
In short he has delightfully good manners, a merit which he shares for the most part with the
Venetians at large. One grows very fond of these people, and the reason of one's fondness is
the frankness and sweetness of their address. That of the Italian family at large has much
to recommend it; but in the Venetian manner there is something peculiarly ingratiating. One
feels that the race is old, that it has a long and rich civilisation in its blood, and that
if it hasn't been blessed by fortune it has at least been polished by time. It hasn't a genius
for stiff morality, and indeed makes few pretensions in that direction. It scruples but scantly
to represent the false as the true, and has been accused of cultivating the occasion to grasp
and to overreach, and of steering a crooked course--not to your and my advantage--amid the
sanctities of property. It has been accused further of loving if not too well at least too
often, of being in fine as little austere as possible. I am not sure it is very brave, nor
struck with its being very industrious. But it has an unfailing sense of the amenities of life;
the poorest Venetian is a natural man of the world. He is better company than persons of his
class are apt to be among the nations of industry and virtue--where people are also sometimes
perceived to lie and steal and otherwise misconduct themselves. He has a great desire to please
and to be pleased.

V

In that matter at least the cold-blooded stranger begins at last to imitate him; begins to
lead a life that shall be before all things easy; unless indeed he allow himself, like Mr.
Ruskin, to be put out of humour by Titian and Tiepolo. The hours he spends among the pictures
are his best hours in Venice, and I am ashamed to have written so much of common things when
I might have been making festoons of the names of the masters. Only, when we have covered our
page with such festoons what more is left to say? When one has said Carpaccio and Bellini,
the Tintoret and the Veronese, one has struck a note that must be left to resound at will.
Everything has been said about the mighty painters, and it is of little importance that a pilgrim
the more has found them to his taste. "Went this morning to the Academy; was very much pleased
with Titian's 'Assumption.'" That honest phrase has doubtless been written in many a traveller's
diary, and was not indiscreet on the part of its author. But it appeals little to the general
reader, and we must moreover notoriously not expose our deepest feelings. Since I have mentioned
Titian's "Assumption" I must say that there are some people who have been less pleased with
it than the observer we have just imagined. It is one of the possible disappointments of Venice,
and you may if you like take advantage of your privilege of not caring for it. It imparts a
look of great richness to the side of the beautiful room of the Academy on which it hangs;
but the same room contains two or three works less known to fame which are equally capable
of inspiring a passion. "The 'Annunciation' struck me as coarse and superficial": that note
was once made in a simple-minded tourist's book. At Venice, strange to say, Titian is altogether
a disappointment; the city of his adoption is far from containing the best of him. Madrid,
Paris, London, Florence, Dresden, Munich --these are the homes of his greatness.

There are other painters who have but a single home, and the greatest of these is the Tintoret.
Close beside him sit Carpaccio and Bellini, who make with him the dazzling Venetian trio. The
Veronese may be seen and measured in other places; he is most splendid in Venice, but he shines
in Paris and in Dresden. You may walk out of the noon-day dusk of Trafalgar Square in November,
and in one of the chambers of the National Gallery see the family of Darius rustling and pleading
and weeping at the feet of Alexander. Alexander is a beautiful young Venetian in crimson pantaloons,
and the picture sends a glow into the cold London twilight. You may sit before it for an hour
and dream you are floating to the water-gate of the Ducal Palace, where a certain old beggar
who has one of the handsomest heads in the world--he has sat to a hundred painters for Doges
and for personages more sacred--has a prescriptive right to pretend to pull your gondola to
the steps and to hold out a greasy immemorial cap. But you must go to Venice in very fact to
see the other masters, who form part of your life while you are there, who illuminate your
view of the universe. It is difficult to express one's relation to them; the whole Venetian
art-world is so near, so familiar, so much an extension and adjunct of the spreading actual,
that it seems almost invidious to say one owes more to one of them than to the other. Nowhere,
not even in Holland, where the correspondence between the real aspects and the little polished
canvases is so constant and so exquisite, do art and life seem so interfused and, as it were,
so consanguineous. All the splendour of light and colour, all the Venetian air and the Venetian
history are on the walls and ceilings of the palaces; and all the genius of the masters, all
the images and visions they have left upon canvas, seem to tremble in the sunbeams and dance
upon the waves. That is the perpetual interest of the place--that you live in a certain sort
of knowledge as in a rosy cloud. You don't go into the churches and galleries by way of a change
from the streets; you go into them because they offer you an exquisite reproduction of the
things that surround you. All Venice was both model and painter, and life was so pictorial
that art couldn't help becoming so. With all diminutions life is pictorial still, and this
fact gives an extraordinary freshness to one's perception of the great Venetian works. You
judge of them not as a connoisseur, but as a man of the world, and you enjoy them because they
are so social and so true. Perhaps of all works of art that are equally great they demand least
reflection on the part of the spectator--they make least of a mystery of being enjoyed. Reflection
only confirms your admiration, yet is almost ashamed to show its head. These things speak so
frankly and benignantly to the sense that even when they arrive at the highest style--as in
the Tintoret's "Presentation of the little Virgin at the Temple"--they are still more familiar.

But it is hard, as I say, to express all this, and it is painful as well to attempt it--painful
because in the memory of vanished hours so filled with beauty the consciousness of present
loss oppresses. Exquisite hours, enveloped in light and silence, to have known them once is
to have always a terrible standard of enjoyment. Certain lovely mornings of May and June come
back with an ineffaceable fairness. Venice isn't smothered in flowers at this season, in the
manner of Florence and Rome; but the sea and sky themselves seem to blossom and rustle. The
gondola waits at the wave-washed steps, and if you are wise you will take your place beside
a discriminating companion. Such a companion in Venice should of course be of the sex that
discriminates most finely. An intelligent woman who knows her Venice seems doubly intelligent,
and it makes no woman's perceptions less keen to be aware that she can't help looking graceful
as she is borne over the waves. The handsome Pasquale, with uplifted oar, awaits your command,
knowing, in a general way, from observation of your habits, that your intention is to go to
see a picture or two. It perhaps doesn't immensely matter what picture you choose: the whole
affair is so charming. It is charming to wander through the light and shade of intricate canals,
with perpetual architecture above you and perpetual fluidity beneath. It is charming to disembark
at the polished steps of a little empty <i>campo</i>--a sunny shabby square with an old well
in the middle, an old church on one side and tall Venetian windows looking down. Sometimes
the windows are tenantless; sometimes a lady in a faded dressing-gown leans vaguely on the
sill. There is always an old man holding out his hat for coppers; there are always three or
four small boys dodging possible umbrella-pokes while they precede you, in the manner of custodians,
to the door of the church.

VI

The churches of Venice are rich in pictures, and many a masterpiece lurks in the unaccommodating
gloom of side-chapels and sacristies. Many a noble work is perched behind the dusty candles
and muslin roses of a scantily-visited altar; some of them indeed, hidden behind the altar,
suffer in a darkness that can never be explored. The facilities offered you for approaching
the picture in such cases are a mockery of your irritated wish. You stand at tip-toe on a three-legged
stool, you climb a rickety ladder, you almost mount upon the shoulders of the <i>custode</i>.
You do everything but see the picture. You see just enough to be sure it's beautiful. You catch
a glimpse of a divine head, of a fig tree against a mellow sky, but the rest is impenetrable
mystery. You renounce all hope, for instance, of approaching the magnificent Cima da Conegliano
in San Giovanni in Bragora; and bethinking yourself of the immaculate purity that shines in
the spirit of this master, you renounce it with chagrin and pain. Behind the high altar in
that church hangs a Baptism of Christ by Cima which I believe has been more or less repainted.
You make the thing out in spots, you see it has a fullness of perfection. But you turn away
from it with a stiff neck and promise yourself consolation in the Academy and at the Madonna
dell' Orto, where two noble works by the same hand--pictures as clear as a summer twilight--present
themselves in better circumstances. It may be said as a general thing that you never see the
Tintoret. You admire him, you adore him, you think him the greatest of painters, but in the
great majority of cases your eyes fail to deal with him. This is partly his own fault; so many
of his works have turned to blackness and are positively rotting in their frames. At the Scuola
di San Rocco, where there are acres of him, there is scarcely anything at all adequately visible
save the immense "Crucifixion" in the upper story. It is true that in looking at this huge
composition you look at many pictures; it has not only a multitude of figures but a wealth
of episodes; and you pass from one of these to the other as if you were "doing" a gallery.
Surely no single picture in the world contains more of human life; there is everything in it,
including the most exquisite beauty. It is one of the greatest things of art; it is always
interesting. There are works of the artist which contain touches more exquisite, revelations
of beauty more radiant, but there is no other vision of so intense a reality, an execution
so splendid. The interest, the impressiveness, of that whole corner of Venice, however melancholy
the effect of its gorgeous and ill-lighted chambers, gives a strange importance to a visit
to the Scuola. Nothing that all travellers go to see appears to suffer less from the incursions
of travellers. It is one of the loneliest booths of the bazaar, and the author of these lines
has always had the good fortune, which he wishes to every other traveller, of having it to
himself. I think most visitors find the place rather alarming and wicked-looking. They walk
about a while among the fitful figures that gleam here and there out of the great tapestry
(as it were) with which the painter has hung all the walls, and then, depressed and bewildered
by the portentous solemnity of these objects, by strange glimpses of unnatural scenes, by the
echo of their lonely footsteps on the vast stone floors, they take a hasty departure, finding
themselves again, with a sense of release from danger, a sense that the <i>genius loci</i>
was a sort of mad white-washer who worked with a bad mixture, in the bright light of the <i>campo</i>,
among the beggars, the orange-vendors and the passing gondolas. Solemn indeed is the place,
solemn and strangely suggestive, for the simple reason that we shall scarcely find four walls
elsewhere that inclose within a like area an equal quantity of genius. The air is thick with
it and dense and difficult to breathe; for it was genius that was not happy, inasmuch as it,
lacked the art to fix itself for ever. It is not immortality that we breathe at the Scuola
di San Rocco, but conscious, reluctant mortality.

Fortunately, however, we can turn to the Ducal Palace, where everything is so brilliant and
splendid that the poor dusky Tintoret is lifted in spite of himself into the concert. This
deeply original building is of course the loveliest thing in Venice, and a morning's stroll
there is a wonderful illumination. Cunningly select your hour--half the enjoyment of Venice
is a question. of dodging--and enter at about one o'clock, when the tourists have flocked off
to lunch and the echoes of the charming chambers have gone to sleep among the sunbeams. There
is no brighter place in Venice--by which I mean that on the whole there is none half so bright.
The reflected sunshine plays up through the great windows from the glittering lagoon and shimmers
and twinkles over gilded walls and ceilings. All the history of Venice, all its splendid stately
past, glows around you in a strong sealight. Everyone here is magnificent, but the great Veronese
is the most magnificent of all. He swims before you in a silver cloud; he thrones in an eternal
morning. The deep blue sky burns behind him, streaked across with milky bars; the white colonnades
sustain the richest canopies, under which the first gentlemen and ladies in the world both
render homage and receive it. Their glorious garments rustle in the air of the sea and their
sun-lighted faces are the very complexion of Venice. The mixture of pride and piety, of politics
and religion, of art and patriotism, gives a splendid dignity to every scene. Never was a painter
more nobly joyous, never did an artist take a greater delight in life, seeing it all as a kind
of breezy festival and feeling it through the medium of perpetual success. He revels in the
gold-framed ovals of the ceilings, multiplies himself there with the fluttering movement of
an embroidered banner that tosses itself into the blue. He was the happiest of painters and
produced the happiest picture in the world. "The Rape of Europa" surely deserves this title;
it is impossible to look at it without aching with envy. Nowhere else in art is such a temperament
revealed; never did inclination and opportunity combine to express such enjoyment. The mixture
of flowers and gems and brocade, of blooming flesh and shining sea and waving groves, of youth,
health, movement, desire--all this is the brightest vision that ever descended upon the soul
of a painter. Happy the artist who could entertain such a vision; happy the artist who could
paint it as the masterpiece I here recall is painted.

The Tintoret's visions were not so bright as that; but he had several that were radiant enough.
In the room that contains the work just cited are several smaller canvases by the greatly more
complex genius of the Scuola di San Rocco, which are almost simple in their loveliness, almost
happy in their simplicity. They have kept their brightness through the centuries, and they
shine with their neighbours in those golden rooms. There is a piece of painting in one of them
which is one of the sweetest things in Venice and which reminds one afresh of those wild flowers
of execution that bloom so profusely and so unheeded in the dark corners of all of the Tintoret's
work. "Pallas chasing away Mars" is, I believe, the name that is given to the picture; and
it represents in fact a young woman of noble appearance administering a gentle push to a fine
young man in armour, as if to tell him to keep his distance. It is of the gentleness of this
push that I speak, the charming way in which she puts out her arm, with a single bracelet on
it, and rests her young hand, its rosy fingers parted, on his dark breastplate. She bends her
enchanting head with the effort--a head which has all the strange fairness that the Tintoret
always sees in women--and the soft, living, flesh-like glow of all these members, over which
the brush has scarcely paused in its course, is as pretty an example of genius as all Venice
can show. But why speak of the Tintoret when I can say nothing of the great "Paradise," which
unfolds its somewhat smoky splendour and the wonder of its multitudinous circles in one of
the other chambers? If it were not one of the first pictures in the world it would be about
the biggest, and we must confess that the spectator gets from it at first chiefly an impression
of quantity. Then he sees that this quantity is really wealth; that the dim confusion of faces
is a magnificent composition, and that some of the details of this composition are extremely
beautiful. It is impossible however in a retrospect of Venice to specify one's happiest hours,
though as one looks backward certain ineffaceable moments start here and there into vividness.
How is it possible to forget one's visits to the sacristy of the Frari, however frequent they
may have been, and the great work of John Bellini which forms the treasure of that apartment?

VII

Nothing in Venice is more perfect than this, and we know of no work of art more complete. The
picture is in three compartments; the Virgin sits in the central division with her child; two
venerable saints, standing close together, occupy each of the others. It is impossible to imagine
anything more finished or more ripe. It is one of those things that sum up the genius of a
painter, the experience of a life, the teaching of a school. It seems painted with molten gems,
which have only been clarified by time, and is as solemn as it is gorgeous and as simple as
it is deep. Giovanni Bellini is more or less everywhere in Venice, and, wherever he is, almost
certain to be first--first, I mean, in his own line: paints little else than the Madonna and
the saints; he has not Carpaccio's care for human life at large, nor the Tintoret's nor the
of the Veronese. Some of his greater pictures, however, where several figures are clustered
together, have a richness of sanctity that is almost profane. There is one of them on the dark
side of the room at the Academy that contains Titian's "Assumption," which if we could only
see it--its position is an inconceivable scandal--would evidently be one of the mightiest of
so-called sacred pictures. So too is the Madonna of San Zaccaria, hung in a cold, dim, dreary
place, ever so much too high, but so mild and serene, and so grandly disposed and accompanied,
that the proper attitude for even the most critical amateur, as he looks at it, strikes one
as the bended knee. There is another noble John Bellini, one of the very few in which there
is no Virgin, at San Giovanni Crisostomo--a St. Jerome, in a red dress, sitting aloft upon
the rocks and with a landscape of extraordinary purity behind him. The absence of the peculiarly
erect Madonna makes it an interesting surprise among the works of the painter and gives it
a somewhat less strenuous air. But it has brilliant beauty and the St. Jerome is a delightful
old personage.

The same church contains another great picture for which the haunter of these places must find
a shrine apart in his memory; one of the most interesting things he will have seen, if not
the most brilliant. Nothing appeals more to him than three figures of Venetian ladies which
occupy the foreground of a smallish canvas of Sebastian del Piombo, placed above the high altar
of San Giovanni Crisostomo. Sebastian was a Venetian by birth, but few of his productions are
to be seen in his native place; few indeed are to be seen anywhere. The picture represents
the patron-saint of the church, accompanied by other saints and by the worldly votaries I have
mentioned. These ladies stand together on the left, holding in their hands little white caskets;
two of them are in profile, but the foremost turns her face to the spectator. This face and
figure are almost unique among the beautiful things of Venice, and they leave the susceptible
observer with the impression of having made, or rather having missed, a strange, a dangerous,
but a most valuable, acquaintance. The lady, who is superbly handsome, is the typical Venetian
of the sixteenth century, and she remains for the mind the perfect flower of that society.
Never was there a greater air of breeding, a deeper expression of tranquil superiority. She
walks a goddess--as if she trod without sinking the waves of the Adriatic. It is impossible
to conceive a more perfect expression of the aristocratic spirit either in its pride or in
its benignity. This magnificent creature is so strong and secure that she is gentle, and so
quiet that in comparison all minor assumptions of calmness suggest only a vulgar alarm. But
for all this there are depths of possible disorder in her light-coloured eye.

I had meant however to say nothing about her, for it's not right to speak of Sebastian when
one hasn't found room for Carpaccio. These visions come to one, and one can neither hold them
nor brush them aside. Memories of Carpaccio, the magnificent, the delightful--it's not for
want of such visitations, but only for want of space, that I haven't said of him what I would.
There is little enough need of it for Carpaccio's sake, his fame being brighter to-day--thanks
to the generous lamp Mr. Ruskin has held up to it--than it has ever been. Yet there is something
ridiculous in talking of Venice without making him almost the refrain. He and the Tintoret
are the two great realists, and it is hard to say which is the more human, the more various.
The Tintoret had the mightier temperament, but Carpaccio, who had the advantage of more newness
and more responsibility, sailed nearer to perfection. Here and there he quite touches it, as
in the enchanting picture, at the Academy, of St. Ursula asleep in her little white bed, in
her high clean room, where the angel visits her at dawn; or in the noble St. Jerome in his
study at S. Giorgio Schiavoni. This latter work is a pearl of sentiment, and I may add without
being fantastic a ruby of colour. It unites the most masterly finish with a kind of universal
largeness of feeling, and he who has it well in his memory will never hear the name of Carpaccio
without a throb of almost personal affection. Such indeed is the feeling that descends upon
you in that wonderful little chapel of St. George of the Slaves, where this most personal and
sociable of artists has expressed all the sweetness of his imagination. The place is small
and incommodious, the pictures are out of sight and ill-lighted, the custodian is rapacious,
the visitors are mutually intolerable, but the shabby little chapel is a palace of art. Mr.
Ruskin has written a pamphlet about it which is a real aid to enjoyment, though I can't but
think the generous artist, with his keen senses and his just feeling, would have suffered to
hear his eulogist declare that one of his other productions--in the Museo Civico of Palazzo
Correr, a delightful portrait of two Venetian ladies with pet animals--is the "finest picture
in the world." A nine to one ratio of oxygen to hydrogen cannot produce pure water;
neither can there by a ratio of ten to one.

However, eight to one alone does it.

Decomposition of water by electric current follows a similar process, and the ratio is two
to one. Pythagoras has taught us that with water, number and harmony are what rule.
 She seems to expand and evaporate,
to multiply all her reflections and iridescences. Then the life of her people and the strangeness
of her constitution become a perpetual comedy, or at least a perpetual drama. Then the gondola
is your sole habitation, and you spend days between sea and sky. You go to the Lido, though
the Lido has been spoiled. When I first saw it, in 1869, it was a very natural place, and there
was but a rough lane across the little island from the landing-place to the beach. There was
a bathing-place in those days, and a restaurant, which was very bad, but where in the warm
evenings your dinner didn't much matter as you sat letting it cool on the wooden terrace that
stretched out into the sea. To-day the Lido is a part of united Italy and has been made the
victim of villainous improvements. A little cockney village has sprung up on its rural bosom
and a third-rate boulevard leads from Santa Elisabetta to the Adriatic. There are bitumen walks
and gas-lamps, lodging-houses, shops and a <i>teatro diurno</i>. The bathing-establishment
is bigger than before, and the restaurant as well; but it is a compensation perhaps that the
cuisine is no better. The actual distance travelled by the apex was on occasion nearly 3/4 of
an inch. In a vertical direction it was 15 m; another occasion 5/8 of an inch in 60 m. There
was also some lateral movement as well. this was proven by a measure
placed close to this leaf. The beach
at the Lido is still lonely and beautiful, and you can easily walk away from the cockney village.
The return to Venice in the sunset is classical and indispensable, and those who at that glowing
hour have floated toward the towers that rise out of the lagoon will not easily part with the
impression. But you indulge in larger excursions--you go to Burano and Torcello, to Malamocco
and Chioggia. Torcello, like the Lido, has been improved; the deeply interesting little cathedral
of the eighth century, which stood there on the edge of the sea, as touching in its ruin, with
its grassy threshold and its primitive mosaics, as the bleached bones of a human skeleton washed
ashore by the tide, has now been restored and made cheerful, and the charm of the place, its
strange and suggestive desolation, has well-nigh departed.

It will still serve you as a pretext, however, for a day on the lagoon, especially as you will
disembark at Burano and admire the wonderful fisher-folk, whose good looks--and bad manners,
I am sorry to say--can scarcely be exaggerated. Burano is celebrated for the beauty of its
women and the rapacity of its children, and it is a fact that though some of the ladies are
rather bold about it every one of them shows you a handsome face. The children assail you for
coppers, and in their desire to be satisfied pursue your gondola into the sea. Chioggia is
a larger Burano, and you carry away from either place a half-sad, half-cynical, but altogether
pictorial impression; the impression of bright- coloured hovels, of bathing in stagnant canals,
of young girls with faces of a delicate shape and a susceptible expression, with splendid heads
of hair and complexions smeared with powder, faded yellow shawls that hang like old Greek draperies,
and little wooden shoes that click as they go up and down the steps of the convex bridges;
of brown-cheeked matrons with lustrous tresses and high tempers, massive throats encased with
gold beads, and eyes that meet your own with a certain traditional defiance. The men throughout
the islands of Venice are almost as handsome as the women; I have never seen so many good-looking
rascals. At Burano and Chioggia they sit mending their nets, or lounge at the street corners,
where conversation is always high- pitched, or clamour to you to take a boat; and everywhere
they decorate the scene with their splendid colour--cheeks and throats as richly brown as the
sails of their fishing-smacks-- their sea-faded tatters which are always a "costume," their
soft Venetian jargon, and the gallantry with which they wear their hats, an article that nowhere
sits so well as on a mass of dense Venetian curls. here is a little more to see the Royal Exchange,
except that the interior decorations are very tastefully executed, and therefore, we turn now
to this leviathan Bank of England - to long, irregular, and by no means imposing our line of building
on the left. This is William Cobbett's Old Lady of Threadneedle Street, whose rickety constitution
and powers not - by the fact that the financier bold and blundering - betokened almost immediate
dissolution more than a quarter century ago. Other people, less dominated by unreasoning prejudice
than the author of "Political Register," were wrong in the same notion, and it is quite possible
that even now there are people who have faith as Cobbett was - as we are said one of Mr. Disraeli
novels, Greek mythology is still belief that a fragment of humanity
existing somewhere in the mountains of Syria.

In any case, since the late Sir Robert Peel is placed beyond the
power of the governor and company to indulge in hazardous or irregular
courses, it is abundantly clear that to doubt the perfect stability
of the Bank of England is equivalent to questioning the infallibility
numeracy.

The treasure chests in this unit and there is huge now - as we learn
from published weekly, returns, provision for Sir Robert's - astonishing
value between L.14, L.15 and 000,000, 000,000 pounds in gold and silver!
- An amount that figures gliding smoothly and fairly shallow on the
pen or tongue, but a mass of treasure, however, that few people can
achieve a proper and distinct conception.

 If the Grand Canal, however, is not quite technically a "street," the perverted
Piazza is perhaps even less normal; and I hasten to add that I am glad not to find myself studying
my subject under the international arcades, or yet (I will go the length of saying) in the
solemn presence of the church. For indeed in that case I foresee I should become still more
confoundingly conscious of the stumbling-block that inevitably, even with his first few words,
crops up in the path of the lover of Venice who rashly addresses himself to expression. "Venetian
life" is a mere literary convention, though it be an indispensable figure. The words have played
an effective part in the literature of sensibility; they constituted thirty years ago the title
of Mr. Howells's delightful volume of impressions; but in using them to-day one owes some frank
amends to one's own lucidity. Let me carefully premise therefore that so often as they shall
again drop from my pen, so often shall I beg to be regarded as systematically superficial.

Venetian life, in the large old sense, has long since come to an end, and the essential present
character of the most melancholy of cities resides simply in its being the most beautiful of
tombs. Nowhere else has the past been laid to rest with such tenderness, such a sadness of
resignation and remembrance. Nowhere else is the present so alien, so discontinuous, so like
a crowd in a cemetery without garlands for the graves. It has no flowers in its hands, but,
as a compensation perhaps--and the thing is doubtless more to the point--it has money and little
red books. The everlasting shuffle of these irresponsible visitors in the Piazza is contemporary
Venetian life. Everything else is only a reverberation of that. The vast mausoleum has a turnstile
at the door, and a functionary in a shabby uniform lets you in, as per tariff, to see how dead
it is. From this <i>constatation</i>, this cold curiosity, proceed all the industry, the prosperity,
the vitality of the place. The shopkeepers and gondoliers, the beggars and the models, depend
upon it for a living; they are the custodians and the ushers of the great museum--they are
even themselves to a certain extent the objects of exhibition. It is in the wide vestibule
of the square that the polygot pilgrims gather most densely; Piazza San Marco is the lobby
of the opera in the intervals of the performance. The present fortune of Venice, the lamentable
difference, is most easily measured there, and that is why, in the effort to resist our pessimism,
we must turn away both from the purchasers and from the vendors of <I>ricordi</I>. The <I>ricordi</I>
that we prefer are gathered best where the gondola glides--best of all on the noble waterway
that begins in its glory at the Salute and ends in its abasement at the railway station. It
is, however, the cockneyfied Piazzetta (forgive me, shade of St. Theodore--has not a brand
new cafe begun to glare there, electrically, this very year?) that introduces us most directly
to the great picture by which the Grand Canal works its first spell, and to which a thousand
artists, not always with a talent apiece, have paid their tribute. We pass into the Piazzetta
to look down the great throat, as it were, of Venice, and the vision must console us for turning
our back on St. Mark's.

We have been treated to it again and again, of course, even if we have never stirred from home;
but that is only a reason the more for catching at any freshness that may be left in the world
of photography. It is in Venice above all that we hear the small buzz of this vulgarising voice
of the familiar; yet perhaps it is in Venice too that the picturesque fact has best mastered
the pious secret of how to wait for us. Even the classic Salute waits like some great lady
on the threshold of her saloon. She is more ample and serene, more seated at her door, than
all the copyists have told us, with her domes and scrolls, her scolloped buttresses and statues
forming a pompous crown, and her wide steps disposed on the ground like the train of a robe.
This fine air of the woman of the world is carried out by the well-bred assurance with which
she looks in the direction of her old- fashioned Byzantine neighbour; and the juxtaposition
of two churches so distinguished and so different, each splendid in its sort, is a sufficient
mark of the scale and range of Venice. However, we ourselves are looking away from St. Mark's--we
must blind our eyes to that dazzle; without it indeed there are brightnesses and fascinations
enough. We see them in abundance even while we look away from the shady steps of the Salute.
These steps are cool in the morning, yet I don't know that I can justify my excessive fondness
for them any better than I can explain a hundred of the other vague infatuations with which
Venice sophisticates the spirit. Under such an influence fortunately one need n't explain--it
keeps account of nothing but perceptions and affections. It is from the Salute steps perhaps,
of a summer morning, that this view of the open mouth of the city is most brilliantly amusing.
The whole thing composes as if composition were the chief end of human institutions. The charming
architectural promontory of the Dogana stretches out the most graceful of arms, balancing in
its hand the gilded globe on which revolves the delightful satirical figure of a little weathercock
of a woman. This Fortune, this Navigation, or whatever she is called--she surely needs no name--catches
the wind in the bit of drapery of which she has divested her rotary bronze loveliness. On the
other side of the Canal twinkles and glitters the long row of the happy palaces which are mainly
expensive hotels. There is a little of everything everywhere, in the bright Venetian air, but
to these houses belongs especially the appearance of sitting, across the water, at the receipt
of custom, of watching in their hypocritical loveliness for the stranger and the victim. I
call them happy, because even their sordid uses and their vulgar signs melt somehow, with their
vague sea-stained pinks and drabs, into that strange gaiety of light and colour which is made
up of the reflection of superannuated things. The atmosphere plays over them like a laugh,
they are of the essence of the sad old joke. They are almost as charming from other places
as they are from their own balconies, and share fully in that universal privilege of Venetian
objects which consists of being both the picture and the point of view.

This double character, which is particularly strong in the Grand Canal, adds a difficulty to
any control of one's notes. The Grand Canal may be practically, as in impression, the cushioned
balcony of a high and well-loved palace--the memory of irresistible evenings, of the sociable
elbow, of endless lingering and looking; or it may evoke the restlessness of a fresh curiosity,
of methodical inquiry, in a gondola piled with references. There are no references, I ought
to mention, in the present remarks, which sacrifice to accident, not to completeness. A rhapsody
of Venice is always in order, but I think the catalogues are finished. I should not attempt
to write here the names of all the palaces, even if the number of those I find myself able
to remember in the immense array were less insignificant. There are many I delight in that
I don't know, or at least don't keep, apart. Then there are the bad reasons for preference
that are better than the good, and all the sweet bribery of association and recollection. These
things, as one stands on the Salute steps, are so many delicate fingers to pick straight out
of the row a dear little featureless house which, with its pale green shutters, looks straight
across at the great door and through the very keyhole, as it were, of the church, and which
I needn't call by a name--a pleasant American name--that every one in Venice, these many years,
has had on grateful lips. It is the very friendliest house in all the wide world, and it has,
as it deserves to have, the most beautiful position. It is a real <I>porto di mare</I>, as
the gondoliers say--a port within a port; it sees everything that comes and goes, and takes
it all in with practised eyes. Not a tint or a hint of the immense iridescence is lost upon
it, and there are days of exquisite colour on which it may fancy itself the heart of the wonderful
prism. We wave to it from the Salute steps, which we must decidedly leave if we wish to get
on, a grateful hand across the water, and turn into the big white church of Longhena--an empty
shaft beneath a perfunctory dome--where an American family and a German party, huddled in a
corner upon a pair of benches, are gazing, with a conscientiousness worthy of a better cause,
at nothing in particular.

For there is nothing particular in this cold and conventional temple to gaze at save the great
Tintoretto of the sacristy, to which we quickly pay our respects, and which we are glad to
have for ten minutes to ourselves. The picture, though full of beauty, is not the finest of
the master's; but it serves again as  well as another to transport--there is no other word--those
of his lovers for whom, in far-away days when Venice was an early rapture, this strange and
mystifying painter was almost the supreme revelation. The plastic arts may have less to say
to us than in the hungry years of youth, and the celebrated picture in general be more of a
blank; but more than the others any fine Tintoret still carries us back, calling up not only
the rich particular vision but the freshness of the old wonder. Many things come and go, but
this great artist remains for us in Venice a part of the company of the mind. The others are
there in their obvious glory, but he is the only one for whom the imagination, in our expressive
modern phrase, sits up. "The Marriage in Cana," at the Salute, has all his characteristic and
fascinating unexpectedness--the sacrifice of the figure of our Lord, who is reduced to the
mere final point of a clever perspective, and the free, joyous presentation of all the other
elements of the feast. Why, in spite of this queer one-sidedness, does the picture give us
no impression of a lack of what the critics call reverence? For no other reason that I can
think of than because it happens to be the work of its author, in whose very mistakes there
is a singular wisdom. Mr. Ruskin has spoken with sufficient eloquence of the serious loveliness
of the row of heads of the women on the right, who talk to each other as they sit at the foreshortened
banquet. There could be no better example of the roving independence of the painter's vision,
a real spirit of adventure for which his subject was always a cluster of accidents; not an
obvious order, but a sort of peopled and agitated chapter of life, in which the figures are
submissive pictorial notes. These notes are all there in their beauty and heterogeneity, and
if the abundance is of a kind to make the principle of selection seem in comparison timid,
yet the sense of "composition" in the spectator--if it happen to exist--reaches out to the
painter in peculiar sympathy. Dull must be the spirit of the worker tormented in any field
of art with that particular question who is not moved to recognise in the eternal problem the
high fellowship of Tintoretto.

If the long reach from this point to the deplorable iron bridge which discharges the pedestrian
at the Academy--or, more comprehensively, to the painted and gilded Gothic of the noble Palazzo
Foscari--is too much of a curve to be seen at any one point as a whole, it represents the better
the arched neck, as it were, of the undulating serpent of which the Canalazzo has the likeness.
We pass a dozen historic houses, we note in our passage a hundred component "bits," with the
baffled sketcher's sense, and with what would doubtless be, save for our intensely Venetian
fatalism, the baffled sketcher's temper. It is the early palaces, of course, and also, to be
fair, some of the late, if we could take them one by one, that give the Canal the best of its
grand air. The fairest are often cheek-by-jowl with the foulest, and there are few, alas, so
fair as to have been completely protected by their beauty. The ages and the generations have
worked their will on them, and the wind and the weather have had much to say; but disfigured
and dishonoured as they are, with the bruises of their marbles and the patience of their ruin,
there is nothing like them in the world, and the long succession of their faded, conscious
faces makes of the quiet waterway they overhang a <I>promenade historique</I> of which the
lesson, however often we read it, gives, in the depth of its interest, an incomparable dignity
to Venice. We read it in the Romanesque arches, crooked to-day in their very curves, of the
early middle-age, in the exquisite individual Gothic of the splendid time, and in the cornices
and columns of a decadence almost as proud. These things at present are almost equally touching
in their good faith; they have each in their degree so effectually parted with their pride.
They have lived on as they could and lasted as they might, and we hold them to no account of
their infirmities, for even those of them whose blank eyes to-day meet criticism with most
submission are far less vulgar than the uses we have mainly managed to put them to. We have
botched them and patched them and covered them with sordid signs; we have restored and improved
them with a merciless taste, and the best of them we have made over to the pedlars. Some of
the most striking objects in the finest vistas at present are the huge advertisements of the
curiosity-shops.

The antiquity-mongers in Venice have all the courage of their opinion, and it is easy to see
how well they know they can confound you with an unanswerable question. What is the whole place
but a curiosity-shop, and what are you here for yourself but to pick up odds and ends? "We
pick them up <i>for</i> you," say these honest Jews, whose prices are marked in dollars, "and
who shall blame us if, the flowers being pretty well plucked, we add an artificial rose or
two to the composition of the bouquet?" They take care, in a word, that there be plenty of
relics, and their establishments are huge and active. They administer the antidote to pedantry,
and you can complain of them only if you never cross their thresholds. If you take this step
you are lost, for you have parted with the correctness of your attitude. Venice becomes frankly
from such a moment the big depressing dazzling joke in which after all our sense of her contradictions
sinks to rest--the grimace of an over-strained philosophy. It's rather a comfort, for the curiosity-shops
are amusing. You have bad moments indeed as you stand in their halls of humbug and, in the
intervals of haggling, hear through the high windows the soft splash of the sea on the old
water-steps, for you think with anger of the noble homes that are laid waste in such scenes,
of the delicate lives that must have been, that might still be, led there. You reconstruct
the admirable house according to your own needs; leaning on a back balcony, you drop your eyes
into one of the little green gardens with which, for the most part, such establishments are
exasperatingly blessed, and end by feeling it a shame that you yourself are not in possession.
(I take for granted, of course, that as you go and come you are, in imagination, perpetually
lodging yourself and setting up your gods; for if this innocent pastime, this borrowing of
the mind, be not your favourite sport there is a flaw in the appeal that Venice makes to you.)
There may be happy cases in which your envy is tempered, or perhaps I should rather say intensified,
by real participation. If you have had the good fortune to enjoy the hospitality of an old
Venetian home and to lead your life a little in the painted chambers that still echo with one
of the historic names, you have entered by the shortest step into the inner spirit of the place.
If it did n't savour of treachery to private kindness I should like to speak frankly of one
of these delightful, even though alienated, structures, to refer to it as a splendid example
of the old palatial type. But I can only do so in passing, with a hundred precautions, and,
lifting the curtain at the edge, drop a commemorative word on the success with which, in this
particularly happy instance, the cosmopolite habit, the modern sympathy, the intelligent, flexible
attitude, the latest fruit of time, adjust themselves to the great gilded, relinquished shell
and try to fill it out. A Venetian palace that has not too grossly suffered and that is not
overwhelming by its mass makes almost any life graceful that may be led in it. With cultivated
and generous contemporary ways it reveals a pre- established harmony. As you live in it day
after day its beauty and its interest sink more deeply into your spirit; it has its moods and
its hours and its mystic voices and its shifting expressions. If in the absence of its masters
you have happened to have it to yourself for twenty-four hours you will never forget the charm
of its haunted stillness, late on the summer afternoon for instance, when the call of playing
children comes in behind from the campo, nor the way the old ghosts seemed to pass on tip-toe
on the marble floors. It gives you practically the essence of the matter that we are considering,
for beneath the high balconies Venice comes and goes, and the particular stretch you command
contains all the characteristics. Everything has its turn, from the heavy barges of merchandise,
pushed by long poles and the patient shoulder, to the floating pavilions of the great serenades,
and you may study at your leisure the admirable Venetian arts of managing a boat and organising
a spectacle. Vol. l9 Causes of the Civil War, by Rear-Admiral French Ensor Chadwick, U.S.N.,
retired former Pres. of Naval War College.
Vol. 20 The Appeal to Arms, by Author James Kendall Hosmer, LL.D., erstwhile Librarian Metropolis Pub.
Lib. 
Vol.
The people from the hotels are always afloat, and, at the hotel pace, the solitary gondolier
(like the solitary horseman of the old- fashioned novel) is, I confess, a somewhat melancholy
figure. Perched on his poop without a mate, he re-enacts perpetually, in high relief, with
his toes turned out, the comedy of his odd and charming movement. He always has a little the
look of an absent- minded nursery-maid pushing her small charges in a perambulator.

But why should I risk too free a comparison, where this picturesque and amiable class are concerned?
I delight in their sun-burnt complexions and their childish dialect; I know them only by their
merits, and I am grossly prejudiced in their favour. They are interesting and touching, and
alike in their virtues and their defects human nature is simplified as with a big effective
brush. Affecting above all is their dependence on the stranger, the whimsical stranger who
swims out of their ken, yet whom Providence sometimes restores. The best of them at any rate
are in their line great artists. On the swarming feast- days, on the strange feast-night of
the Redentore, their steering is a miracle of ease. The master-hands, the celebrities and winners
of prizes--you may see them on the private gondolas in spotless white, with brilliant sashes
and ribbons, and often with very handsome persons--take the right of way with a pardonable
insolence. They penetrate the crush of boats with an authority of their own. The crush of boats,
the universal sociable bumping and squeezing, is great when, on the summer nights, the ladies
shriek with alarm, the city pays the fiddlers, and the illuminated barges, scattering music
and song, lead a long train down the Canal. The barges used to be rowed in rhythmic strokes,
but now they are towed by the steamer. The coloured lamps, the vocalists before the hotels,
are not to my sense the greatest seduction of Venice; but it would be an uncandid sketch of
the Canalazzo that shouldn't touch them with indulgence. Taking one nuisance with another,
they are probably the prettiest in the world, and if they have in general more magic for the
new arrival than for the old Venice-lover, they in any case, at their best, keep up the immemorial
tradition. The Venetians have had from the beginning of time the pride of their processions
and spectacles, and it's a wonder how with empty pockets they still make a clever show. The
Carnival is dead, but these are the scraps of its inheritance. Vauxhall on the water is of
course more Vauxhall than ever, with the good fortune of home-made music and of a mirror that
reduplicates and multiplies. The feast of the Redeemer--the great popular feast of the year--is
a wonderful Venetian Vauxhall. All Venice on this occasion takes to the boats for the night
and loads them with lamps and provisions. Wedged together in a mass it sups and sings; every
boat is a floating arbour, a private <i>cafe-concert</i>. Of all Christian commemorations it
is the most ingenuously and harmlessly pagan. Toward morning the passengers repair to the Lido,
where, as the sun rises, they plunge, still sociably, into the sea. The night of the Redentore
has been described, but it would be interesting to have an account, from the domestic point
of view, of its usual morrow. It is mainly an affair of the Giudecca, however, which is bridged
over from the Zattere to the great church. The pontoons are laid together during the day--it
is all done with extraordinary celerity and art--and the bridge is prolonged across the Canalazzo
(to Santa Maria Zobenigo), which is my only warrant for glancing at the occasion. We glance
at it from our palace windows; lengthening our necks a little, as we look up toward the Salute,
we see all Venice, on the July afternoon, so serried as to move slowly, pour across the temporary
footway. It is a flock of very good children, and the bridged Canal is their toy. All Venice
on such occasions is gentle and friendly; not even all Venice pushes anyone into the water.

But from the same high windows we catch without any stretching of the neck a still more indispensable
note in the picture, a famous pretender eating the bread of bitterness. This repast is served
in the open air, on a neat little terrace, by attendants in livery, and there is no indiscretion
in our seeing that the pretender dines. Ever since the table d'hote in "Candide" Venice has
been the refuge of monarchs in want of thrones--she would n't know herself without her <i>rois
en exil.</i> The exile is agreeable and soothing, the gondola lets them down gently. Its movement
is an anodyne, its silence a philtre, and little by little it rocks all ambitions to sleep.
The proscript has plenty of leisure to write his proclamations and even his memoirs, and I
believe he has organs in which they are published; but the only noise he makes in the world
is the harmless splash of his oars. He comes and goes along the Canalazzo, and he might be
much worse employed. He is but one of the interesting objects it presents, however, and I am
by no means sure that he is the most striking. He has a rival, if not in the iron bridge, which,
alas, is within our range, at least--to take an immediate example--in the Montecuculi Palace.
Far-descended and weary, but beautiful in its crooked old age, with its lovely proportions,
its delicate round arches, its carvings and its disks of marble, is the haunted Montecuculi.
Those who have a kindness for Venetian gossip like to remember that it was once for a few months
the property of Robert Browning, who, however, never lived in it, and who died in the splendid
Rezzonico, the residence of his son and a wonderful cosmopolite "document," which, as it presents
itself, in an admirable position, but a short way farther down the Canal, we can almost see,
in spite of the curve, from the window at which we stand. This great seventeenth century pile,
throwing itself upon the water with a peculiar florid assurance, a certain upward toss of its
cornice which gives it the air of a rearing sea- horse, decorates immensely--and within, as
well as without--the wide angle that it commands.

There is a more formal greatness in the high square Gothic Foscari, just below it, one of the
noblest creations of the fifteenth century, a masterpiece of symmetry and majesty. Dedicated
to-day to official uses--it is the property of the State--it looks conscious of the consideration
it enjoys, and is one of the few great houses within our range whose old age strikes us as
robust and painless. It is visibly "kept up"; perhaps it is kept up too much; perhaps I am
wrong in thinking so well of it. These doubts and fears course rapidly through my mind--I am
easily their victim when it is a question of architecture--as they are apt to do to-day, in
Italy, almost anywhere, in the presence of the beautiful, of the desecrated or the neglected.
We feel at such moments as if the eye of Mr. Ruskin were upon us; we grow nervous and lose
our confidence. This makes me inevitably, in talking of Venice, seek a pusillanimous safety
in the trivial and the obvious. I am on firm ground in rejoicing in the little garden directly
opposite our windows--it is another proof that they really show us everything- -and in feeling
that the gardens of Venice would deserve a page to themselves. They are infinitely more numerous
than the arriving stranger can suppose; they nestle with a charm all their own in the complications
of most back-views. Some of them are exquisite, many are large, and even the scrappiest have
an artful understanding, in the interest of colour, with the waterways that edge their foundations.
On the small canals, in the hunt for amusement, they are the prettiest surprises of all. The
tangle of plants and flowers crowds over the battered walls, the greenness makes an arrangement
with the rosy sordid brick. Of all the reflected and liquefied things in Venice, and the number
of these is countless, I think the lapping water loves them most. They are numerous on the
Canalazzo, but wherever they occur they give a brush to the picture and in particular, it is
easy to guess, give a sweetness to the house. Then the elements are complete--the trio of air
and water and of things that grow. Venice without them would be too much a matter of the tides
and the stones. Even the little trellises of the <I>traghetti</I> count charmingly as reminders,
amid so much artifice, of the woodland nature of man. The vine-leaves, trained on horizontal
poles, make a roof of chequered shade for the gondoliers and ferrymen, who doze there according
to opportunity, or chatter or hail the approaching "fare." There is no "hum" in Venice, so
that their voices travel far; they enter your windows and mingle even with your dreams. I beg
the reader to believe that if I had time to go into everything, I would go into the <I>traghetti</I>,
which have their manners and their morals, and which used to have their piety. This piety was
always a <I>madonnina</I>, the protectress of the passage--a quaint figure of the Virgin with
the red spark of a lamp at her feet. The lamps appear for the most part to have gone out, and
the images doubtless have been sold for <I>bric-a- brac</I>. The ferrymen, for aught I know,
are converted to Nihilism--a faith consistent happily with a good stroke of business. One of
the figures has been left, however--the Madonnetta which gives its name to a <I>traghetto</I>
near the Rialto. RITA: Well this is strange, you coming to visit. I thought you had better manners
than that. (Laughs.) Obviously you possess no humility.

FRIEDRICH (gesturing to her with an outreached hand): Oh please, don't
hurt my feelings with that tone of voice. I leave that expression, on second thought, standing; but I repent of it when I remember
that it is a devouring American--a lady long resident in Venice and whose kindnesses all Venetians,
as well as her country-people, know, who has rekindled some of the extinguished tapers, setting
up especially the big brave Gothic shrine, of painted and gilded wood, which, on the top of
its stout <i>palo</i>, sheds its influence on the place of passage opposite the Salute. 

The Archduke John arrived in Presburg; the number of its soldiers had become a hundred and thirty
thousand men. Near Lobau there were eighty thousand French soldiers; twenty-two thousand more
were coming from behind.
This proved that the operation was being successful. The passage was done last night exactly
as it was planned. The Austrian had been thrown on a false scent. She
called and called, but he didn't answer. Worried, she sought out Mrs. Lawton, who was resting
in the living room.
"Excuse me, but I can't find Tommy anywhere. Have you seen him?"
Was it her imagination, or did Mrs. Lawton's eyes look shifty? Didn't she appear to squirm
a bit in her seat?
"I haven't seen him," she said brusquely. "Keeping track of him...that's your job."
Mrs. Lawton, a widow, attended church religiously, and listened to the Reverend Mr. Gordonmammon's
sermons carefully, but she had been surrounded by slaves and slavery for such a long time that
she didn't see them as people anymore. After Chloe, looking still more frantic, continued on her
search, Mrs. Lawton turned to her daughter and casually declared, "Oh don't worry so. Tommy
will be just fine with Sukey Larkin, and we will have the added benefit that Sukey won't be bothering
us any for a while--she won't be able to look Chloe in the eye!"
But Mrs. Lawton herself, to her utter surprise, had a hard time facing Chloe. Chloe ran around
the house, sobbing, crying, and begging Mrs. Lawton to help her find her darling boy. "My baby!"
she cried brokenly, her chin quivering. "If only you had let him come with me he wouldn't be lost.
He was never a moment's trouble." She gasped with a terrible thought. "He must've followed
me down to the beach, trying to find me...and then he must've drowned!" Her wailing increased,
she sobbed almost uncontrollably, and then, shaking, she started out the door and down to
the beach to search for her child.
But Mrs. Lawton held out a hand and called, "Stop, Chloe!" She said it in such a stern voice
that Chloe halted immediately, her hand to her throat. "If you must know," Mrs. Lawton began,
when she saw that Chloe was about to faint from fear and anxiety," I gave Tommy to Sukey Larkin.
She wanted him, and I decided it was best that she have him."
Chloe sank into a chair, and the expression on her face was of such abject grief that the old lady
had to turn away. "You gave my baby away?" Chloe said in a whisper that, nevertheless, pierced the
other woman's heart. "My child? Mine?"
Mrs. Lawton's heart softened briefly.

"He'll be fine, Chloe," she said. "Really."
Chloe's tears fell thick and fast, her lips shook as she said, "He'll want his mother. He'll cry
out and I won't be there. I won't be there for him...my Tommy, my darling!"
Mrs. Lawton turned away, left Chloe sobbing on the chair. Upon leaving the room, she ran into
the minister, and told him what she had done. "Well, I gave Tommy away," she explained, since
the minister could hear Chloe's heartbroken weeping in the next room. "But honestly, if I'd
known she'd get this upset I never would have done it! She'll be utterly worthless for at least
a week!"
"Don't worry about it," replied the minister, patting her on the back consolingly. "When I sold off
my calf, that old cow refused to eat, and called for the little creature for several days,
but she got over it. It'll be just the same with Chloe."
Though he was a devout man of God and tried to comfort his flock as much as possible, it never once
entered his mind that Chloe might need some solace. After all, she was merely a slave.
Chloe finally dragged herself off the chair and trudged up to her thin bed, feeling utterly
bereft and devastated. It was the wee hours of the morning before she finally drifted off to
sleep. When she woke at dawn, she first sensed an unutterable sadness
about her being, and it was only after a split second that she remembered
that her Tommy was gone. She began to cry afresh, her heart aching
as though she would die. She lifted her streaming eyes to the wall
and saw one of his tattered dresses hanging on a rusty nail. Quickly
she pulled it down and held it to her chest, sobbed bitter tears over
it, kissed it, held it to her nose to catch a whiff of his scent,
of her darling, her sweet child, her baby boy who was now lost to
her forever. A few days after Colebe's wife had her child,
she brought it to Governor Philip's house. Being that the child was female, the governer whished
to see the operation if the finger were to be cut off. The child being two months of age had a ligature
applied around the little fingure where the second joint lied. Though a few days later when
the child was seen again the ligature had either been broken or taken off. After mentioning to the
childs mother, she took hairs from a present officers head and tightly wrapped them around
the childs finger. Some time passed and gangrene had taken place. When touching the child's injured
fingure she apeared to be made uncomphortable though she did not fuss over it. Colebe's child
didn't seem to mind after the ligature had been applied.
 First, almost ear to the grill is a round Italian head developed smoothly, with rather
swollen shape of features often sees in a novel way of life when living habits easy and sensual
indulgence begin to reveal their marks in appearance, and to broaden and confuse the clear, sculptural
lines of early youth. Obviously, that is the head of an easy-going, pleasure-loving man who waxed
hot with good living, and performs the duties of his office with a greasy grace as something
to become politely to be gone through with. Obviously, he is puzzled and half-contemptuous
revelations coming from the grid in hoarse whispers of those thin lips trembling. That another
man, who speaks with anguish sweat beads on his forehead, with a pallor of death on his thin, worn
face, is to ask questions that seem to guide celestial guiding mad ravings of a madman and
still there is seriousness death, desperate appeal, which is a faint knocking at the door of
his heart, for man is born of woman, and may feel that somehow or other they are powerful words
of agony.
It addresses a few words of comfort he usually vague, and gives a plenary absolution. Capuchin
monk stands up and gently wiping the sweat from his forehead, cleric
leaves his box, and they meet face to face, when each starts seeing
the other face every appearance of a well-known.

 Wednesday
9th December

Today I tried to study some Law, but I don't think I could concentrate on it even if my life
depended on it.

Thursday 10th December

We now have a foot or so of snow. When you read my letters I do wish you would make notes of
the questions I ask. If you rely on your memory until you write the reply you have forgotten half
of it.

Friday 11th December

I wish I knew what had happened to ----. I'm more curious than worried. It would be childish
of me to rely on this.

Van Rensselaer (who I mentioned before, and
will from now on be designated by LI) is extremely good natured and
even tender.

Yes! Tenderness in a Hollandois! You may not believe
me, but I think you will change your opinion in time.

Saturday 12th
December

Van Rensselaer is not satisfied with my lodgings (which
in fairness are far from ideal) and insists that I allow him to provide
me with something better.

We have not yet managed to fit in even
an hour of Yates, but for good reasons. On Monday we will study law.

Sunday
13th December

Van Rensselaer has done very well for me. I am now
being cared for by two of his aunts, helpful and good natured. Everything
is very neat, spotless in fact. I now have a pair of upper rooms.

I
was just interrupted and now I can't remember what I was trying to
write. Thus he connected his abandoned courses from 1526 to 1533, inclusively, till
there was account brought of the Wealth and Opulence of the Region of Perusia, whither the Spaniards
marcht, and so for some time there was a Cessation of this Tyranny; but in a few canicule afterwards
they alternate and acted astronomic Crimes, robbed, and confined them and committed college offences
adjoin the God of Heaven; nor accept they ye done, so that now these Three Hundred Miles of Land
so crawling (as I said before) lies now barbaric and about deserted.
No Solifidian can accept the accurate Narrations of their Barbarism, and Cruelty in those Countreys.
I will alone chronicle two or three Stories which are beginning in my memory. The Spaniards acclimated
to trace the accomplish of the Indians, both Men and Women with curst Currs, bent Dogs; an
Indian Woman that was ailing hapned to be in the way in sight, who
acquainted that she was not able to abstain getting broken in pieces
by the Dogs, takes a Cord that she had and hangs her cocky aloft a
Beam, attached her Child (which she unforunately had with her) to
her foot; and no eventually had she done, yet the Dogs were at her,
disturbing the Child, but a Priest advancing that way Baptiz'd it
afore absolutely dead.

When the Spaniards larboard this Kingdom, one of them arrive the Son of some Indian Governour
of a City or Province, to go forth with him, who told him he would not leave or arid his Native
Countrey, whereupon he threatned to cut off his ears, if he refus'd to chase him: But the Youth constant
resolutely, that he would abide in the abode of his Nativity, he cartoon his Sword cut off anniversary
Ear, admitting which he persever'd in his aboriginal opinion, and again as if he had alone
pincht him, smilingly cut off his Nose and Lips.
This Rogue did lasciviously avowal afore a Priest, and as if he had becoming the greatest applause,
commended himself to the actual Heavens, saying, "He had fabricated it his arch Trade or Business
to charge Indian Women, that if they were awash afterward, he ability accretion the added Money
by them."
 It was necessary for us to prove, rather, that nothing
out of the expected or detrimental had occurred, but that everything that had happened was a
necessary and divinely ordained occurrence that would lead to a larger and more successful future.
 Volens Nolens .-- Many people do not start "Dear John Doe"
or end with "Sincerely", etc, on a postcard, simply enter your full address at the top, and below
it signed with the initials message only. But you can do whatever you want on the subject,
there is no rule. We wonder that, after the suspicions of our honesty, followed by reading our
newspaper.
Rousseau and silky .-- We know of no simple cure for nerves, unless, as sometimes happens, it
happens to an illness, a doctor should be consulted. Try to forget yourself in the pleasure of
adding to the enjoyment of others.
HOPE .-- Atheling AEI means "forever." "I think that is a common language used by all, and no more harm that
such expressions are common.
JSF -
"Not even the most tender heart, and with us, you know half the reasons to smile and sigh"

is "Keble Christian Year, 24th Sunday after Trinity, verse 1.
MARIE .-- The appointment -
"A wing of spring by a river of yellow primrose was to him, And it was nothing more,"
Wordsworth's poem is, "Peter Bell," Part I, verse 12.
ERA .-- The importance of the bee that appears on the monument of the Prince Imperial, is that the
French royal robe and the rule is planted thick with golden bees
instead of "Louis flowers" or Fleurs de Lys.

The origin goes back to the time of the ancient Egyptians, symbolizing their kings under this
emblem, honey indicating the prize that gave him the right to implement it, and the punishment
for bad bite. More than 300 golden bees were found in the tomb of Childeric, AD 1653. Give your
song to a composer. Sometimes they are in the application, most often there is more supply than
needed. It all depends on the imagination of the composer. Only two questions are allowed,
and the answers given at the discretion of the Editor. We regret that he has been disappointed.  
Cissie.
- You can not interfere with the remarkable work of guiding the construction of a school-house
for use of his parishioners, it is your duty. But parents of the children have the right to
choose a school with a private telephone. The mourning for a parent has a duration of one year,
but you are free to use it for longer if desired.
WINNIE THE - You should consult a physician. We can not usurp their place, but we are always
willing to give sensible advice on health issues and hygiene.
POLLY and OTHERS .-- The actions of a classical figure, contained in the authority are: height, 5
feet 4 inches, bust 32 inches waist 24 inches, 9 inches below the arm to the waist, with long
arms and neck. The proportions of a big woman or girl would be more majestic height, 5 feet
5 or 6 inch bust, 36 cm, waist 26 ½ inches, hips 35 inches thick part of arm, wrist, 11 ½ inches
6 ½ inches. Hands and feet should not be too small. "Polly" will see that no action is taken
by the judges of the true beauty and waist lines 15 or 16 inches. They are simply deformities.

Buddie .-- The book was published anonymously.
Gloucester .-- CB Easter fell on March 25, 1546, 1641, 1736, 1886, and fall the next time in 1943.
Tram, used as a prefix to train and road, is the last syllable of the name of its inventor,
Mr. Benjamin Outram, who in 1800 made improvements in the system of railways for common roads,
then in use in North England. The first iron tramroad Wandsworth Croydon was completed July 24,
1801. Mr. Outram was the father of India held general, Sir James Outram.
WILD HYACINTH .-- We know of nothing, except to benefit their health in general. The intense sweating
is obviously an effort of nature. Do you take a hot bath every morning, and as the exercise of
the possible? There is no doubt that his book has received.
RHP - I do not think people are cold and haughty at all nice, or they could be happy or make
others happy. The Christian ideal is neither cold nor pride, but sympathy and love. Beware
of long lines at the end of his words in writing. Best tie as Dutch
farmers in the tail of his cows. They are writing ugly and useless
appendages.  
Nannie B. and touched, we have our best thanks for
his letters.  
ISIS. - We are grateful for the account of his visit
to the Temple, and we regret that we can not make use of it. You will
acquire more easily in writing by constant practice.  
GERTRUDE
.-- We believe that the first year we have to take what is offered
to you in the way of salary.  
A field officer's daughter. - We
have reviewed the two poems, and feel they have some promise of something
better, but both are guilty of the construction and rhyme. It's easy to give one or two significant
and surprising illustrations of this fact - a significant and surprising, in other aspects as
we can see very clearly through the coin painstakingly woven webs from time to time between
us.
All the money in the three kingdoms, the money supply in the whole kingdom - gold, silver,
copper, paper - no doubt overcome, if it comes, it is very doubtful, national income a year,
to say nothing of fees local and loads! And it would also require all the money circulating
in Britain and Ireland, including the notes to the last cent to pay for alcohol, beer and
snuff consumed annually by the people in the UK!
In the note, the Bank of England issues are about L.19, 000.000, its gold and silver reserves,
as we have seen, is more than L.14, 000 000 pounds sterling: these amounts are added would
only be on the cancellation of scores of alcohol and weed in the country for just over seven months!

These lightning, throwing sparks alive on industrial activity, resources, skills, plague-spots
of this powerful, restless, enterprising, but far from being sufficiently
trained or disciplined British people.

But get into the big money-temple.

Very impressive to me has always seemed the army of employees sitting in sullen silence at
the counters, or severe rapidly sliding over the place, and different ways used in the huge
account balance, shoveling up piles of sovereigns, reception and distribution of bank paper
of great value in the same coldness and indifference, as if participating in the count so many
chestnuts. A strange feeling, I suspect, disturb the minds of half of all newly appointed secretary
of the staggering wealth, until the genius of the place has shaped his thoughts and perceptions,
which has come to be regarded as least one of the dumb and parts killed in a powerful machine,
over whose action has no control over what has over the course of the stars.
All of these problems, check, gold bullion department, with its officials held numerous, are in
truth but the shell and the body of establishment. They by whose will and the breath is animated
and directed nowhere to be seen this time. They met in this as in any other morning in his
room of the Inquisition - the room of the Bank - and decided that, without appeal, without
reasons assigned in the absence of trading partners whose reputation was trembling in the balance,
over the course of action financial pursued, and whose role should or should not be discarded.

A terrible blow, sharper than a sword could inflict, politely, gently, as it is done is that
which falls on a merchant for the first time, reported that the Bank
should refrain from off your scores!

The announcement was generally received as smiling as they do. "It's a matter of very slight
consequence, etc.," but if it was close enough, you may have noticed, since the Secretary did,
the trembling lip beneath that sickly smile, and his face was as white as the paper rejected the
merchant trembling fingers were replaced in their portfolio.
And it is not surprising that he should therefore troubled by the negative is he well knew,
pushed him down the first steps of the steep and slippery slope, at the bottom of which is
the bankruptcy - the ruin! However, these falls are normal, the remains of which the busy haunts
of the trading company are paved, and we have to look elsewhere for less. Before leaving the
Bank, however, we pass a few steps to the left of the main entrance.
Now who would believe that in the midst of this Mammon-temple, where space is of incalculable
value, a large plot of grass should have been jealously preserved, from which spring two elms well
that from the heat and agitation Instead of raising their fresh leaves to the sky - bright, stirring
the leaves, which as often as the sun kisses, laughter in the win over the sparkling pool, operated
anxious, tired and intriguing below? However, it is.
 

Virginia! The land on the battlefield and the fight against Gore, colonial and revolutionary relics,
monuments, glory and honor without stain, unspotted from the land of patriots and heroes, soldiers,
and Yorktown, where his head was struck, a tyrant and the composition of our glorious struggle fathers
beat the strings and gave themselves and their descendants a country that shines in the golden sunlight
of republican liberty, and throwing wide its doors to the oppressed
of every clime. These two ideas of different meanings,
were inscribed in one of our daily newspapers, to show his carelessness not only about himself,
but also about the opinions of others. These declaration were signed by the name Roederer.

He had collected more than one million two hundred thousand livres in 1789 from his debtors, and he
now owns a national property worth seven millions of livres. He has admitted that he has more
than three millions livres saved in public funds. He often says that he owes his fortune to
Robespierre whose death from the guillotine had paid the price for all, and all his bankers had
died the same way after being denouced for their aritocracy.
Among all my terrible relationships that I could not avoid, Roederer is the worst of them
all. He is old, childish, and think that every beautiful talented woman can belong to him.
I would have told him exacly how I feel about him, but my upright personality had restricted
me. He looks ridiculous in his toupee and he has bad breath. His scent of musk is so strong,
one can tell he is near from miles away.
Letter
Paris,September of 1805.
Dear Lord:
It is with deep regrets that I have to announce you that all effots to capture the Turkish
Empire had failed. The French, the russian and the Australian are
to blamed for our failure. We were able to conquer, Poland, Italy
and even the German Empire, but the jealousy of our enemies had prevented
us from reaching this particular goal. 
 After all the disturbances
that had occured in the provinces of Ottoman Porte, resulting from
lack of government and its officials, it is surprising indeed, to
hear Talleyrand declares, more foreigns political forces should be
involved in Constantinople alone, than all the countries of Europe
combined together. This is undoubtedly true, but if it's deeply considered,
sometimes these myths have historical significance that is overlooked by scholars. We can cite
examples in our own country.
 

I have made a reasonably priced aeration case which serves this purpose. It consist of a rectangular
case of drawers. There are twenty-five drawers in all. They are constructed in an low-priced
manner, and they are the only parts of the case that are value illustration. They are shallow, 1-7/8
inches deep, the principal outlay would be for the materials of the bottom of the drawers should be
poised, it was decided to make the bottoms of cotton cloth. This cloth is stretched on the frame,
which the dimensions are greater than the paper to be dried. The stock of the frame is made of
pine, 1¼ inches wide, and three-eighths of an inch thick. The corners are simply mitered together
and attached to each other by wire staples that are commonly used for fastening together pages
of script, and are called "novelty staples." Eight staples are used at each miter, four above and
four below the joint. The joint is quite firm and strong, and is likely to hold for an imprecise
period with reasonable treatment. The cloth, stretched upon the frame, is fastened to it by means
of similar staples. A strip of pine, 1-13/16 inches wide, and three eighths of an inch thick,
forms the vertical front of the drawer, and prevents the access of much light from the front while
the sheet is drying. Two triangular knee pieces, three-quarters of an inch thick, serve to connect
the front board with the frame, and four small screws with a few brads are used in attaching them.
The lower edge of the front board drops one-quarter of an inch below the bottom of the drawer.
My case stands in a weakly lighted room, and the paper dried in this case and removed to a portfolio
as soon as it is dry does not seem to be injured by the light that reaches it. With the case
in a well lighted room, one should favor to have outer doors to the case, made of ordinary board
six or eight inches wide, hinged to one end, and arranged to swing horizontally across the
front of the case. These would completely prevent the admittance of light. The opening of any
one of the doors would allow three or four of the drawers to be filled, while the rest of the
case would be relatively dark at the same time. They had a lot to say about the duty of children, but not much about
parent's love. The sacrificing of children, usual practice in many famous countries of old,
the oldest child being the favorite target - for Moloch was a picky eater - could never have
taken place anywhere people listened to the voice of Nature. Still, those sacrifices were proof
of the spirit of pride, which caused people to carve up their kids in a domestic shrine. Romans
paid little distinction to the difference between son and slave - so much so that an average
roman would not think twice about cutting off his son's head for
doing a good job. 

Everything that was known of the sciences then was found here. Druids were mystics and they made
the laws, meted out judgment, and decided on reward and punishment. I know
who took the pearls, this isn't a crime, per say. I bet I can get them back. Let's not inform my husband
just yet, I am sure I can get them back in a day or two.
"He already knows they are gone," Miss Blackburne stated.
"That's not possible! How can you thing this?" Beverley exclaimed.
"I can't be sure, but I definitely have a hunch." She repeated. Amiens:
I'd just about said that when the carriage with the Count's sister
drove by in a rush. She had just a moment to recognize and bow toward
me and let me know that she wasn't yet finished with me. As Russian Revolution history shows us that a government whose
natural supports have deteriorated with time will triumph in the face of adversity. Governments
do not fail; they defeat thier own purpose.
3. Revolutions effected by Governments; i.e. Turkey, China, et al.
Revolutions are the downfall of government. Not following the rebellion, they only represent those
in favor. Furthermore, it's governments who favor reform that cause revolution. The pedistal
on which the nation stands on represents the ups and downs of the national stability.
It is without successful infrastructure that governments tend to impose thier ideas ans standards
on. Without an idea to stand on, those without rule will often be the first to fail. This is
seen in the era of Peter the Great in Russia. Influenced by European thought, he conquered
the population thru brute strength.
The industrial revolution of Japan is a great example of how revolution built and re built Japan.

With a powerful autocrat and a wealth of brilliant support, one can empower great success. Even
with the best of intentions, a reformer sees a very strong rebellion in his wake. On the flip
side, the autocrat becomes the revolutionary and the people the straight minded mob; though
studies have shown that mob mentality favors the conservative path.
With these attempts at rule, failure is almost always the fashion. Revolution will not change
the values that people have held tru thru generations of mind set.The only things effected are
what is already crumbling and cannot be left to stand on it's own.
China is currently asking thier government to step in and renew it's balance in the country.By
overturning the dynasty of ancient times, the revolution has succeeded in a return to ancient
values. People became upset with the reforms brought to thier attention and spoke out against
the goverment's imposition of reform and change. A kind of temperance established with the crack
down on gambling and opium use to build the support of the army and education sought to raise
taxation burned the tax payer.
Those Euro-educated Chinese took advantage of the situation and called
for a rebellion of those dissatisfied with the changes.

This caused a reform of it's own in a return to a republic institution.
There is no way for these ideas to survive in the current climate.
The movement has been declared but little has been done in support
or rally. Those educated Chinese hold no belief in the success of
"republic" and find the word itself to be associated directly with
the restraint of law, power and held values of the country. Who does believe, with heart pounding evidence that we can prove, the calmest air is
the heaviest and thickest air, and that the clouds that hang closest to us often appear to be
the darken, then when they are ready to evaporate they turn into the lightest.
 Because she was not aided by her taylor, she looked unkempt and unattractive. Had it not
been for her standing in society, she would have been unendurable. Arabella had many proposals,
but she was too afraid of giving up her power and scared that they
were only after her money to accept easily. he says Slavery is wrong. as constitution protects  slavery so he has nothing to do with constitution
& he can not become a citigen ,this is logical &  consistent , he can respect this position
.
 The door onto the south side is mere, but remarkably beautiful.
It glances almost as whether it powers belong towards a number of morning Norman church within
England, and the stones possess acquired a most elegant warm colour with age. At Ispra there
is a campanile which Mr. Ruskin would presumably disapprove of, but which we idea lovely. A few kilometres
further onto a corner is swung, and the splendid castle of Angera is caught sight of.
Before going up towards the castle we visited the inn onto the deserted immediately onto entering
the town, towards dine. Genius may shoot up in a
land quite inhospitable to it; it may perhaps even blossom in the most ungenial season. But the rose-bush
that displays its blushing honours in the face of the surly uncomfortable east wind, must have
sprung from a root of no small vigour. In a certain island, the fostering indulgences and kind
attention which the narcissus, the gilly flower, the tuberose', the Cape jessamiii, and all the delicate
flowers that adorn the garden, deserve and require ; are mostabsufdly and perniciously bestowed
upon ragwort, jack of the hedge, priest's what d'ye call it, bilhops weed, bear's foot, nightshade,
and henbane.' The Tafe of the present Age.
• Amongst many other distinguishing marks of a stupid age, a bad crop of men, I have been told
that the taste in writing was never so false as at present. If it is really so, it may perhaps
be owing to a prodigious swarm of insipid trashy writers : amongst whom there are some who
pretend to dictate to the public as critics, though they hardly ever fail to be mistaken. But
their dogmatic impudence, and something like a scientific air of talking the most palpable nonsense,
imposes upon great numbers of people, who really possess a considerable share of natural Taste
; of which at the same time they are so little conscious as to suffer themselves passively to
be misted by those blundering guides.
♦ A Taste worth cultivating is to be improved and preserved by reading only the best writers.
But whoever, after perusing a satire of Horace, even in the dullest English translation, can relish
the stupid abuse of a blackguard rhymfter, may as welj indulge the
natural depravity of his Taste, and riot for life upon distiller's
grains. To the official of the Archdeacon of London belonged such causes of old. He married Ann Browne,
and then Henry’s sister Mary after his first wife died. The validity of the marriage depended
on a papal dispensation like that of Henry’s and has been consummated and announced invalid as
that of Henry, on which he sought a divorce, which happened to be the invalidity of the previous
dispensation. On the 12th of May 1528, a bill was issued by Clement VII which confirmed the
Suffolk’s divorce and also pronounced priestly census on everyone who raised questions on the
subsequent marriages of the Duke, which was exactly the course Henry wished he could follow.
On the grounds of insufficiency of the papal indulgence, Wolsey was to declare the marriage
invalid; Henry can marry anyone he wanted to marry; so the Pope had to confirm the sentence, and
all who might rise in dispute for the second marriage or the legitimacy of its possible issue.

[Footnote 559: L. and P., iv., 5291.

This examination took place on 5th and 6th April.]
[Footnote 560: Ibid., iv., 3140.]
[Footnote 561: L. and P., iv., 5859; cf. iv., 737.]
There was another precedent which was also forced on Henry’s mind. On 11th March, (p. 200) 1527,
two months before Wolsey opened his court, a divorce was granted at Rome to Henry's sister
Margaret, Queen of Scotland.[562] Henry’s pretexts were somewhat stronger than hers. Her allegation
on the precontract by her husband, Angus has never been proved. She perceived that James IV had
escaped the dangers in those three years and was living when she was married to Angus. Though
Angus was unfaithful, according to the canon law it was no reason for a divorce; Henry Stewart was
a person she was living in shameless adultery, who has also got a divorce to get free so that
he could marry his Queen.
There was no objection from Rome to any of these two divorces; since neither Angus nor Margaret Mortimer
had an Emperor as their nephew, there won’t be the danger of imperial armies to march on
Rome to vindicate the validity of their marriages, and Clement was able to issue his bills without any fear
of justice being challenged at the arms of powerful princes. It was not the case with Henry;
while the private dealings before Wolsey were in progress, the world was shocked by the ruin
of Rome, and Clement became a prisoner in the hands of the Emperor's troops.
Such a grieving Pope could not be expected to confirm a sentence to the detriment of his master’s
aunt. "If the Pope," wrote Wolsey to Henry when he received the news receipt of the news, "be
slain or taken, it will thwart the King's affairs not a little, which have up to now been carrying on
very well."[563]. It was declared a little later that it would be necessary to get the permission
of the Pope or of the cardinals to the divorce. The Pope must be liberated to obtain the former;
the cardinals must be brought together in France to acquire the latter. [564] (p. 201)
[Footnote 562: L. and P., iv., 4130.]
[Footnote 563: Ibid., iv., 3147.]
[Footnote 564: L. and P., iv., 3311.]
To free the Pope, or rather to arrange for the congregation of an assembly of cardinals in France
during the time when Clement was kept in captivity, was the real aim of the mission on which Wolsey proceeded
to France, in July. Such an organization which was presided by Wolsey and in the territories of the
French King favored an attack upon the Emperor’s aunt as good as the Pope in the hands of
Charles’s armies was sure to be against this. Wolsey went as Henry’s lieutenant and not
as his ambassador with an unequalled magnificence; part of the agenda was his own projects for
advancement. It was suggested to him by Louise of Savoy, the queen-mother of France, that all
Christian princes should repudiate the Pope's authority so long as he remained in captivity.
To this the Cardinal replied that if it wasn’t she who made the
proposition, Henry or he would have started it by themselves. [565].
It was assumed in Spain that Wolsey’s purpose of visit t France
is to separate the Church of England and of France from the Roman,
not merely during the captivity of the Pope and to effect his liberation,
but for a perpetual division. [566] and that Francis were recommending
Wolsey the patriarchate of the two schismatic churches. This HIT requires JavaScript! Please activate JavaScript before
continuing, or release th Meanwhile, the regent, irreverently called Uncle Sam, who rules the
land while his master is away in Utopia, reads the cahiers of the nobles, laughs in his sleeve
at that of the clergy, and forgets all about that of the third estate. Or if he thinks of it at
all, it is only to try to fill its place with twenty-four-volume Census Reports and massive tomes
from the other departments. The cahiers of the third estate are, in truth, few and defective.It
was the work of cultivated men, and although the cooks were many, the broth is excellent. That
the people were a-hungering for just such broth is shown by the fact that the net profits from
it in the first twelve months after publication, as it is said, were over fifty thousand dollars.
Boston is almost the only city in the land that has been the subject of a full, accurate, and interesting
history. The History of New York, by Martha J. Lamb, is not so full as might have been wished,
but is otherwise unexceptionable. New York is fortunate in having the most graphic and humorous
history of its early days that any city in the world ever had, but nobody except Diedrich Knickerbocker
himself ever claimed a great amount of accuracy and truthfulness for his unrivaled work.
The very nature of the early colonization of America, the elements of romance and adventure
so conspicuous in the history of early days on the Atlantic coast, gave warrant to such expectations,
and the event has justified them. But where the romance and adventure end, the historian lays
down his pen. It is left to the census enumerator to complete the work, and the brazen age
of statistics follows the golden age of history.  As the cities in the heart of the continent
have very little of the picturesque in their history, the same line of reasoning would lead us
to expect that the historian would carefully avoid them, or else write only of their earliest
days, when Dame Fortune was yet coquetting on the boards with Mr. Yankee Adventurer. Again we
are not mistaken, for we find that what few critics are present when the curtain is rung up,
leave the house when the first act ends with the death of the aforesaid adventurer. How the fickle
dame flirts with all the neighboring young men, and at last, at the end of the second act,
has her attention led by Captain Location to the hero of the piece
as a suitable mate for her wayward daughter, Miss Prosperity,--all
this is usually written up from hearsay.

For the third act, wherein the twin brothers Steamboat Navigation
and Railroad Communication help the hero to press his suit, the imagination
often suffices.

Ac-cording to the critic, this grand drama always ends happily for
all concerned; the acting is always perfect,--the best ever seen on
the stage; the scenery has seldom been equaled, never excelled.

And this is the way the public hears about every "greatest drama ever produced on any stage."
Do you think the critic too harshly criticized? Look for yourself. Take Cleveland, if you want
a good city with which to begin your explorations among the histories of Western cities. Here
is one of the loveliest places in all the basin of the Great Lakes--rich, prosperous.Cincinnati and
other towns of Ohio, all evincing more taste, love of flowers, and attention to order and adornment
than in most of the States of the Union."
 A shining Loudon, here is the light!"--
After the relaxation, D'O had Court-Martial, which sentenced him to death, Friedrich making
it perpetual eyeclosed: "Perhaps not a traitor, only a blockhead!"
thought Friedrich. He had been made to his post by Fouquet. "Had he ever been out past Peloro?" "Oh, certainly,
sir; Caterina, my dear wife, was from Messina," --and they had often gone there on great saints'
days. This poor man, his great saint's day was the nail in his coffin. Frank and I gave each
other a nod, and then Frank told him that by General Garibaldi's orders, he must immediately take
the man on board, pass the strait, and then go where the man told him to go.
Because of Tom Moore, the Southern Italian has somewhat of a reputation of being a coward. As I
used to say at school, "down to the dust with them, those slaves." And I would stomp my foot
when I said "dust," thinking they were a lousy bunch. But I would wager that Neapolitan children
sing a similar tune about the risings of Tom Moore's countrymen, which in any case have not had much
more success than the tiny Neapolitan revolution he liked to satirize. By some circumstance, Victor
Emanuel at the moment is the king of Naples. Coward or not, the fisherman did not flinch. Personally,
I thought he wasn't nearly as afraid of the upcoming events as I was myself. I thought of
this with some satisfaction, sent Frank's man to my room with a note indicating I wished for
my things to be sent, and within the hour we were setting out, under the moonlight, across
the water.
I will spare you the narrative of our voyage. After all, we are after Sybaris, if we can make it
to that point. It would not be difficult for me to tell you some tales from the Aeneid, about
Cyclops, Circe, Palinurus, Scylla, and Charybdis. Scylla and Charybdis
both left me alone when I sailed past.

I had a copy of Virgil with me, and read the whole thing, and very much confused Battista by
trying to ask him a question about Palinuro, of whom he knew absolutely nothing. It was a lot
like the time I was dining at Fort Monroe and asked the waiter something about General Washington
at Yorktown. "Haven't heard of him, mister,--was he with the Regular army?" So Battista thought
Palinuro was someone from the Italian fleet, whom the Sicilians did not know well. Messina did
not object to us. It is possible that if the warship that lay there had known who was riding in the boat
in her line of fire, I would not be writing this text today. Battista went onto the shore, and brought
back lemons, macaroni, crusty bread, and polenta. For me, he brought the Giornale di Messina
and more Tunisian. For fear of losing the fortunate wind, we pressed onward, past Reggio, hugging
the shoreline, though it was rough. We ran quite close beneath those cliffs at the end of the
Apennines--I dare say the very toenails of that famed Italian foot--and kept going farther and
farther east. As Spartivento disappeared behind us, it became blue, then purple, then brown,
then green; we must have been going ten knots per hour on that afternoon, and by the time the
Spartivento lighthouse was lit, we were far past it, and began to turn our course more northward,
such that, though we had a ways yet to go, we were finally sailing in the direction of our final
destination, Gallipoli.
At that very moment, as often happens in the sea, if you are heading out to sea from a more land-locked
channel, the wind seemed to change. In actuality, I believe we came into the wind from the southwest,
which had all day been drawing up toward the Adriatic. We passed the lighthouse of Stilo in
two hours, and at that point I was exhausted enough to crawl down
into the foul smelling bowels, and, using Battista's coat to warm
my feet, I slept a bit. 
But I did not sleep for long. He had been made two marches beyond some places particularly.
One was made not directly for Berlin but it was made for Saxony. Another one was made for Lubben
which was nearly fifty to sixty miles straight from south of Berlin. Then they had halted for
some days during their stay, they tried to alter for a new sequel. He explained the above matter
seriously and sorrowfully to D’Argens. During the above explanation I was in fear of last winter
season. Due to this statement, I have been received a kind of miserable temperament especially
which was widely echoed in my letters which were being written by me to you. But these were
all not required more to endure their outcomes as my philosophy needed such as provocations,
the outrages, the whole scene of atrocious things that have come to pass etc. [Oeuvres de Frederic,
xix 199: “22nd October] even though Friedrich’s grief about Berlin were so painful, we no need to change
its color due to murmurs afterwards. Now the question is why did
not he start sooner? Actual reason or answer for this question is
that these savageries were on protest rally. Ritual Swapping
Put very simply, Christianity was spawned from Pagan Creeds and practices; therefore, numerous
similarities are drawn from the two. Scholarship on these two subjects is too broad to include
all examples of these similarities, but as readers continue, inklings of the truth of the origins
of Christianity will become clear.

Before the beginning of History, religious beliefs and rituals began to form within the earliest
recorded human beings--sometimes known as "cavemen." Throughout time, religion has shifted
and changed form, but has always encapsulated key fundamental values that have transgressed
time. These values have been widely accepted into a multitude of religious associations/churches
(i.e., Indian, Egyptian, Mithraic, Christian, etc.). Just by the recitation, every Sunday, of
the "Apostles' Creed," one can create a time line in which our core values have been molded.
Each story begins with the All-Mighty Father, impregnating a virgin who inevitably gives birth to
the future "savior" of the people. This "savior-figure" is eventually killed by those less
worthy, is buried, and later rises from the dead to become a renown figure in heaven to all
those living on Earth. Later, Churches (sometimes called Tribes) begin to form, and all are
bound together by Communion, or Eucharisty, which forgives all people of their sins through
the sacrifice of the savior. Each belief-systems falls of the assurance of life after death.
This is not to say that every form of Pagan religious belief falls upon the words of "Apostles'
Creed"; however, the beliefs which are noticed in the creed are explained in their entirety
and include non-Christian, Pragan practices.
There is no way to tell if one core set of beliefs came from one central creation, and thus assembled
into all the world's religions throughout time. However, there is proof that indicates that religious
beliefs were of random human creation, and have evolved throughout time, ranging in difference
depending on the location, and race of the people who embody the
belief system. These belief systems were largely influenced by self-awareness
within human beings, and having an understanding of the way that each
person develops as an individual. Illidan the authenticity of the account,
I am very glad that has been published in French and translated into English. No, but it can
be exciting and rewarding for all lovers of truth. "
"FRANCIS CUNNINGHAM."]
Dear Children - My goal is to give, in this letter, an explanation of my conversion to the true Christian
religion - the religion that was founded by our Lord and His apostles, said their supporters
in the first two centuries of the Church and today Christian Protestant or Reformed. I am aware
that neither my skills or my training enables me to this task.

A simple mechanical, and possessing but few advantages of education, it seems very difficult
as I would like to express thoughts and feelings that the public in my mind. But how many that
can never be the difficulties they encounter in this business, I am forced to tender for the
love I have, and the desire and hope will be valuable to you. May God be my help, I do not like
to be deterred by an obstacle, and he can give his blessing to resolve this, I regard as a sacred
duty.
It is my imperative duty to acquaint you with the real reasons that have produced the most important,
solemn and decisive step in my life.
It is my duty to give God credit for the ineffable grace has been pleased to show calling me
from the darkness into His marvelous light; open for me the treasures of his infinite mercy
and give me hope of salvation through faith in his son, who only "words of eternal life," being
alone "way, truth and life."
It is my duty to try to make my experience profitable for you to show you the way God wanted to
take me to the truth and the source of living water, and especially to work in prayer for you that
you may be partakers of peace and joy, as my spirit under the influence of his holy word.
May this work, my dear children, for God's blessing, contribute to the triumph of the Gospel, and in
honor of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, filling their hearts with love for truth and
to guide you in the way of True Religion. 
It was the thirty-third
year of my retirement in the current year (1826), who embraced me
and the Protestant religion openly declared, after giving the most
serious and thoughtful study, and is convinced that it was actually
true religion of Christ pleasant in all respects, to the revelation
of his gospel. The grand-daughter of this celebrity, of royal race, was strikingly like
her and, by a fortunate stroke, had been habited, combed, curled in a manner exactly to reproduce
the portrait. The Lotophagoi live by eating only the fruit of lotos. Fruit os the lotos is similar in
size to the fruit of the mastitch-tree. In flavor lotos are similar to date-palms. Wine is also
made from the lotos. The lotos fruit are found where the Lotophagoi live, on a peninsula, stretching
out from the Gindanes land.
Along the coast, next to the Lotophagoi, are the Machlynas. these
poelpe also use the lotos, but not as exclusively as the Lotophagoi. What would you do to my maximum until I can find a better - so take
me, leaving my best side behind me, if he be of any service to you, ma'am. "
When passing by Miss Warwick, dropped her purse on her lap, and he went before he could recover
from his surprise.
"Lord - Lord!" She exclaimed, rising quickly, "was a big mistake - I am not a beggar - I'm very,
very thankful to you, but -"
No, keep it up buddy, keep, "said Dina plaît, pushing the stock to Angelina," John Barker is as
rich as a Jew, and as generous as a prince. Keep it up buddy, and you are obligated to both him and
me - 'tis dangerous in this world for someone so young and so beautiful
like you to be in great distress, so do not feel proud.

" 
"I'm not proud," said Miss Warwick, taking advantage of your
wallet from his pocket, but my anxiety is not a financial one - Check
it out - I'm in trouble just for a friend, an unknown friend .

"
"Touched in his brain, I wonder, 'thought Dinah.
"Coot beer!" Exclaimed Betty Williams - "Hegg PACON and coot."
"Does a woman by the name of Araminta - Miss Hodges, I mean - placed in this list?" Ms. Warwick
said.
"Friend, I do not leave establishments, and I do not know anyone like Miss Hodges. "
Well, I swear Hur name, the driver told me, began with a p and ending at Williams exclaimed
Betty, "or I would never have let him call toor Hur."
"Oh, my Araminta! Araminta mine!" Angelina exclaimed, popping his eyes to heaven - "When, oh when will
I find? I am the most unlucky person on earth."
"If not Hur Petter eat Hegge, and a well PACON? Here is a hole on the left," said Betty, "Hur
must be hungry, for 'tis past two and nine preakfasted - Hur have be hungry - and Betty shook
PACON to judge, but Angelina aside, or the style, it said bacon.
"I'm not the lack of food," he exclaimed, rising, "Blessed are those who have no concept of suffering,
but body. Goodbye, lady! - Can the sensitivity of your face that is so strongly expressive never
be a source of suffering for you! "- And with this deep sigh that more suited to the close of
this discourse, Angelina withdrew.
"If I could, but I sense your pulse," said Dina braid itself, "I could have planned something,
perhaps, had done its good, bad distracted!

Now it was well done Juan Barreto leave this portfolio for her - but how is this? - poor thing!
is unable to be trusted with money - that has been left to its own bag full of Calais.
Dina immediately ran to the door of the house, hoping to be able to capture Angelina, but the
manager had refused to another street, and lost sight of. The lady braid sent by his constant
adviser, John Barker, to deliberate on ways of returning the bag. It should be mentioned that
the credit of the benevolence of Dina, who at the time when he was interrupted by the entrance
of Betty Williams and Angelina, who was feeling things more flattering than one person that
was not unpleasant for her : her friend, John Barker, was a wealthy hosier, who had retired from
business and without ostentation, there was a large amount of real feeling and generosity. But the
demanding tastes of the fine, or sentimental readers, will probably be disgusted by our feelings and
talk about the generosity of the widow of a hosier and cheese. Belongs
to a particular class of persons to afford feeling: we will continue
our heroine, so that, from his birth and education, is duly qualified
because - "exquisite feelings." 
The house next door where Angelina
stopped to seek your kind Araminta was at the Academy of Mrs. Poretta
for ladies. Oh, Madam, you can trust him to me safely.
Young men should look at life! "Here Lionel Jasper tip one of those winks of intelligence
with which he was accustomed to delight and catch the young friends of Mr. Poole, and hurried
on:" But somehow innocent, lady, as mothers would approve. Let's set a night when I have the
honor to call again. Good morning, Mrs. Haughton. His hand again, Mr. (Lionel). Ah, we are
great friends, I guess! You have to let me take you out to my cabin to handle the tapes show,
eh? "Gad, my old friend Charles was a whip. Ha! Ha! Goodday, good morning!"
Not a muscle moved on the face of Colonel during the jovial monologue Mr. Losely. But when Jasper
had bowed out, Mrs. Haughton, courtesying, and ringing the bell for the servant to open the front
door, the man in the world (and, as a worldly man, Colonel Morley was consummated) returned
a little slow to raise those eyes, - this time to the face - and
dropped words 
"My friend in particular is an old friend - not bad
looking, Mrs. Haughton!"

"And so alive and so nice," Mrs. Haughton said, with a slight increase in color, but no other sign of
embarrassment. "It can be a pleasant known Lionel.
"Mother!" Exclaimed the ungrateful boy, "you're not serious?" I think the man is odious. If
it was not a friend of my father, I say it was - "
"What, Lionel?" The colonel asked, softly, "was what?"
"Lord snob."
"Lionel, how dare you?" Cried Mrs. Haughton. "What curse words kids are excited at the school,
Colonel Morley."
"We must be careful not worse than pick up the words when they leave school, my dear lady.
You will forgive me, but Mr. Darrell has explicitly - of course, with your permission - this
young gentleman commended my stewardship and guidance , so I openly confessed his views and intentions
- that maybe it would do me the great favor to force upon him, against his will, the knowledge
- very pretty person. "
Mrs. Haughton pouted, and held until his temper rising. The Colonel began to wonder.
"Certainly," continued the man in the world "," I can ask the name of the particular friend of
my old friend? "
"Your name?" On my word I really do not know. Maybe he left his card, ring the bell, Lionel.
"
"I do not know his name, but you know, ma'am, and allow your child
to see life under its auspices!

I beg ten thousand pardons, but are even more cautious ladies, the most attentive mothers exposed
to - "
"Immense Temptations - ie - a - a -"
"I understand perfectly, my dear Mrs. Haughton."
The footman appeared. "That gentleman leave a card?"
"No, ma'am. "
"Do not ask your name when he came in?"
"Yes, ma'am, but he said he would announce. "When the footman had retired, Mrs. Haughton said
plaintively:" I have been the culprit, Colonel, I see it. But Lionel will tell you how I came
to know the gentleman - the gentleman who almost ran over me, Lionel,
and then spoke so kindly about her beloved father. " 
"Oh, that's
the person! - I suppose so," cried Albert, kissing his mother, who
was willing to lie to mourn. "I can explain everything now, Colonel
Morley. Anyone who says a kind word from my father warms the heart
of my mother to him once, is not it, mother? " 
"And as long as
well," said Colonel Morley, seriously grateful, and may be my passport
and your confidence, Mrs. Haughton. Charles was my old classmate -
a child when I and Darrell were in the sixth shape, and, sorry, if
I add that if this man once a close friend of Charles Haughton, he
could not have been very successful. Voltaire, not being a professional writer of the history of war, saw and described this
type of writing in a non-military way. His writing was unique, with flair and vibrancy. During
the lifetime of Voltaire's writing, the French people had, for the most part, been experiencing repeated
losses. They lost the chance to become a European powerhouse during the War of the Succession,
and they lost almost all their colonies during the Seven Years' War.

They did have a few shining moments: Fontenoy, of course, and perhaps Laffelt, but these were few
and far between.
Most military writers of that time period referred to war as a ploy used by royalty, with the poor
people as pawns, or a power play by the church leaders. Those writers maintained that if only
certain beliefs were gotten rid of, or if only trustworthy, honest people ruled, then there would
be world peace, or at least peace for the French. These writers planned to attack the ruling ministers
and replace them with those of a more philosophical bent, wending their way into power through
the mistresses of the most powerful men. They believed that philosophers' influence would create
a better world, and hailed Peter the Great and Catharine of Russia as examples of how a country
could prosper when philosophers had their rightful place in court.
No one imagined that the powerful English could be brought to justice; however, the witty Voltaire
was so adept at bringing a particular theme to the forefront of people's
thoughts that it is due to his influence that Marlborough has become
a household name.

It will come as no surprise that Marlborough really didn't want the fame that came to him, and
that those who wrote about his life and deeds bungled it in many cases. Some of them lauded
him blindly, without an unbiased look at who he really was, and others
were unable to write without boring their readers, while still other
biographers were simply poor writers, without a lick of intelligence
to their names. It may not be that simple
a question. We are, therefore, able to sort the kinds of line within this print with the help
of these obvious differences.
The author has made an attempt to recreate the state of the plate after Rembrandt’s etching
and before the application of drypoint(figure 12), by tracing only the etched lines in the print.
Rembrandt’s etched lines form only a foundation or skeleton for the finished work is obvious
and it is not complete in itself. The important difference here being the lack of all the rich
contrasts of light and shade found in Rembrandt’s finished work.
It is a general opinion that Rembrandt followed a fairy normal process of stopping-out and also
re-etching while making his prints. It is evident that this procedure was not followed here.
Stopping-out is a process whereby the variations in the depth of etched lines are created.
The plate may be removed from the acid after etched for a period
of time and a stop-out varnish, similar in texture and acid resistant
may be used to cover some of its lines.

The remaining lines are etched more deeply, by immersing the plate
in the acid.

A wide range of intensity can be brought about by repeating this process. The change in depth of
acid corroding is readily visible, where stop-out varnish is applied.
 Here, there is a huge collection of weapons, shields, swords, etc.
from the beginning of our history. In the church of St. Peter and Vincula are the final resting
places of many members of the royal family, among others, who were routinely executed for major
committing major crimes or offenses. The royal tombs, with its graves, tombstones and engravings,
prove the very real existence of these seemingly mythological stories. The famed crown jewels
were kept here many years ago, as well. In order to answer the claims of the false profits, he made his own claim. He claimed
that he had a vision in which a lying spirit showed him heavenly
preparations for their inspiring. Those who have a deep and abiding love
for their country find ways of serving their country. Some step into the line of fire and accept
their fate, and others entertain the survivors with their frivolous and empty lives.
"Shaw is Nonsense"
By Chris Panky
Written for the Potthast Times
He was a pervert and a contrarian, and this is demostrated clearly by George Bernard Shaw the
article with the obscenely bad name, "Common Sense About the War."
Here in the UK, it is widely accepted that Mr. Shaw tends to take
the contrary opinion from what is expected of him. 

They were traveling a long journey in silence, while Courthope was enjoying his march. Inside
in him, he felt, heartily, light. Serving substantial amount of time, someone like Madge, this
time walking with her in the order of mercy, was fullfilling a sense of satisfaction at this
essence of time that can withstand.

He was confronting with hardship in catching with others, yet he pleased the idea of a physical
sportsman acquiring new found perfection over the physical qualification. Only now, he was fascinated
with the experience of being at ease with the snow as he saw sea-bird flying and surfing the
wind toward home. He could fell pity when he find out a frozen drunken wrench, then sense that
the whole modern men must have ,also, experienced. He adhered his ill feelings.

The two, both Morin and Madge, were not bouyant. Morin was irritated doing like a thieve as he
walked and dragged the toboggan towards the gale. Although he had, still, ill intention a criminal
mannerd, he looked steadily at Courthope with suspiscion.

For Madge, she was dismay as she appeared ill and disenchanted across all, was natural to
her adversity. Her heart desires for her though she was not in a position to consider gravely.
He was thinking that she was contemplating over her next accountability and he was expecting it.
It will came sooner.

Madge and Morin exchanged comments when they arrived at the first track shed which diverges
straight path;Both detected and conceived this could be clearest evidence against him. He was questioning
himself if he had not agree to the place were the accomplice would also agree to hold. Madge
step back an inch to the place, he was tedious in his rear movement. She was in his side speaking
softly so to captivate him different from her sister voice which sounded like a coarse metal
or a cuckoo with voice of a sparrow. The hash voice was grave, the behavior was more composed.

"I
fell apprehended that there is nothing to convince you to change your path of life which you seem follows,
thus it is a sad that a single talent should diminish yourself."

A little inhale of air, she stopped, as she was fearful of her own sound. Her actions and words
were evidence of the moment she remembered a benevolent judge advising
her that she was a valued person. It was second nature to her to act
as she, tenderly, conceived. Courthope control himself to accept a
court adverse rendition with having humbled;his assemblage of affinity
to her, his mind was blooming with sense of caprice of everything
of it.

"You need to know,"reprimanded by Madge, "It is very wrongful;and
it is quite not possible you can have hardy achieve some fair job."

"You
are a kind person of having thoughts towards me." He closed his eyes
down the ground.

"I have no idea what lead you to the life of a fugitive,
or other means, you can easily look what other houses in the country
worth stealing, though I believe you have a criminal life for a long
time"(she looks serious, now). Contents

Introduction
Chapter One-Problem of the falling birthrate p.1
It is predicted by Malthus that heightened awareness of one's body and sexual morality has resulted
in the decrease of births everywhere especially in New Zealand. Food production rates are
rising ironically in tandem to the falling birthrates. Malthus believes that this growing
trend has to do with the practice of self-control and limitations of the individual. There is a
rise in those who want to be free from family obligations and duty.They feel that only the poor
would try to have more births and that good citizens practice self-restraint
in this aspect.

It is human nature for the poorer and weaker humans to try to reproduce
to ensure survival of their own kind.

However, this poses a problem to society.

Surgical procedures have been put in place for birth control.

Chapter Two- Population in question p.10

The teachings of Greek philosophers Aristotle and Plato  The teaching of Malthus and his critics

Bonar elaborated on Malthus and his work. Nitti refuted Malthus on his theory that the increase
in food rates affect the fall in birthrates. Spencer's pessimistic biological theory that women's
childbearing facility determines the maximum birthrate  Moral restraint and its broader definition
Laws of the economy depend on biological factors.
Chapter Three- Falling birthrates p.26
A fruitful and fertile marriage is necessary to counter the fast decline in birthrates. The relationship
between birthrates and prosperity before and after 1877 in consideration. The Statistics of Hearts
of Oak Friendly Society states that there is an increasing trend
of parents practising birth control.  
Chapter Four- Measures taken
p.32 The New Zealand lesson should highlight the importance of family
responsibilty to reproduce and prevent the problem, which is fortunately
not too complicated. The issues on hand include tackling the issue
of the abortion practice and the innate human desire for comfort and
happiness. Mrs.
Bronson really earned in this way the gratitude of mingled generations and races. When he was well
inside the woods he fell and created pits in the ground with his hands, face and feet as he
writhed in pain beneath the trees.
Woodland creatures ran away, terrified by the enormous creature in
pain. 

"Look here",I said, stop penetrating/pointing a plate of petit pois i.e small green fresh green peas
(1911) and mis-cueing in a undesirable way and guess "What about having Uncle Tom to get involve/stay
with us for a few weeks ?"
"Last time he arrived/came",replied Margery."you said that nothing would assert you to ask him
repeatedly.Aren't you remember his chronic dyspepsia which is a problem related to disturbance
in digestion due to bacterial or viral infection or may be due to some other genuine reasons,are
you?
"Of course not,"I replied in a witty manner,looking a little pained at such blockhead or screwed
up;"but you can't cast off a respectable or shed/molt blood relation because he happens to live
in a difficult conditions or in a deep trouble."
I delivered an irritable attack on a lentil ( a bushy annual plant of the legume family, grown
for its lens-shaped seeds) pudding.
"Yes, you are right!!",agreed Marjory."And I'll pass this to joan as well.She won't be able
to come before Friday, because she is having some medical treatmentof extracting or pulling out the
teeth on Thursday".
After all Marjory is not altogether without knowledge or perception.
After having a great dinner I wrote, in my skillfull way, a short sweet and spontaneous invitation
to Uncle Tom. Marjory wrote to Joan in a digressive manner.
"I think we ought to celebrate this," I suggested. "Let's show some extravagancy."
"All right," said Margery. "What shall it be, champagne or potatoes?"
Two days later I received the following:--
"MY DEAR JAMES,--Thank you very much for your invitaton, which I really
appreciate and pleased to accept.The country, after all, is the proper
place for old fashion people like myself,as it is very difficult for
them to live up to the present-day bustle of a large city.For the
past six months,I have been doing odd jobs at a munition (i.e all
material used for war) factory,which, I must admit, has benefited
my health in an extraordinary manner, so much so that I have entirely
lost the painful dyspepsia I suffered from, and now, you will be glad
to hear, I am able to eat like a hunter, as we used to say.Hoping
to find you all flourishing on Thursday next, about lunch-time.

"Your affectionate UNCLE TOM."
Spontaneously I took my belt in a hole. Then Margery silently placed this in front of me:-
"DARLING MARGERY,--How sweet of you!I shall simply love it.I am feeling at the top of the world
i.e especially beany as I have just finished with the dentist--usually a hateful person--who found
out, after all, that it was not necessary to take out any of my teeth.I adore him. No time for
more. Heaps( to throw in a pile) to tell you on Friday.
"Always your loving J.J".
"Hello!Where are you off to(i.e right or wrong)?" I asked, as Margery made for the door.
"Off to? Why, to put our names down on the Singleweed's(i.e being loyal) waiting list."
I took my belt up another hole and, whistling The Bing Boys out of sheer desperate bravado, made
my me sad way to the potato patch.  
* * * * * 
* * * * *  
A
MASTER OF THE QUILL. A guy that knows
the earth... Who will have the knowledege to give his spouse place and power, and he will have
the money now to purchse them both.
"I heard you say he wasn't alive?"  
"I did not.." He paused,
suddenly loosing the color in his face he went on in a rush..: I know
the man. And I know He is not dead." Hall had finally accomplished in subduing Dick's narrative
only after the 21st. This happened due to him being fiercely resolute like Jackson was, as the chief
of an army. The Judge took this attitude one step further, by strictly maintaining the law, just as the
General had been inflicting injury on it. 
This is when the attorney
of Louallier, the commander of barracks, clerk belonging to the district
court and marshal of USA were brought infront of the court. 

Schoenbein's ozonometer is a system for detecting ozone in the atmosphere. It is a set of 750
strips of specially treated paper that turns blue on exposure to ozone. The depth of colour varies
according to the amount of ozone detected. After exposure, some water is applied to the strip
to produce the colour.
The kit also includes full instructions and a guide to the shades produced. 750 strips is sufficient
to take 2 daily observations, every day for an entire year. It's like this. If you're putting in a new
window, and the springs on each window sash look the same, then that means the nails are different,
or at least they look different. Standing on the bed, I looked over the headboard to stare
at the window ledge. Putting my hand on the wooden ledge, I pressed down until I found the
spring, and as I'd figured, it was an identical twin for all the other springs. Now I looked
at the nail.
 "If Lucy wants to drop the correspondence, I am sure you are not obliged to keep," says
Kate.
So the letter never written, and the friends, and although I am a great admirer of the virtue of
constancy, even argue that there are cases where it is a mere mockery, the empty shell that we
had better throw away when the core is gone.
But the friendships of girls are often made by proximity, neighborhood, adjacent houses, and regular
meetings in the regular round of life.
The average girl, especially if they live in the country, usually has a very large circle of acquaintances
to choose their friends (and without prejudice to what is said about the adequacy of family
affections, I think a "special friend" is almost a necessity of nature girl, and need not
and should not interfere with family ties and interests). Even if the list of visiting her mother is
long, each household shall not include a girl her age with whom to
be intimate, and many of them live at a distance to make frequent
sexual relations out of the question.

Yes, the circle is reduced to about five or six years, maybe three or four girls, and, of course,
see most of the living one nearest you.
You are in your walk, if you live in the country, continually "drop in" to tea and tennis in each
other's houses. If you live in a village, he falls just before or just after his round of visits
to more formal, and get to know the daily life of others, the interests of every day, the pleasures
and difficulties in great depth, and this crossing of the day-to-day existence forms many friendships.

You get used to each other; trivial incidents of time, perhaps, his buddy, which have a transitory
interest for one, the interests of others, no less. Your friend knows exactly what work he is doing
just that book you are reading. You have a lot of time to talk, and little by little everyone
knows almost everything about the life of another, lives are short,
and in this period neither deep nor complicated. He would not reject her if, here
a very big if,it won. Whatever the cost it would be worth it, jsut by knowing that it was for
him.
Barbara asked if it was worth the risk. If by doing this task it destroy him. She scoffed at Barbara.
"You are just jealous, my way is not a arduous as yours, but it will be far better. I will
rescue him you'll see" 
This response shocked the bluegrass girl
speechless, and Madge refused to wait for any further criticisms.
Saying not another word she blasted from the room scouring for Colonel
Doolittle. That he could not bring perfecting
the controversy so definitely hold his later writings must have, indeed, been a crotchety to him,
for there was hardly quota other question, unless perhaps that of "ancestral memory," which moved
him further deeply. It knack be argued, I suppose, that he did knock around it network "The handsome
Adventure," pressure considering the relations of Spirit, Will, also Body. Mrs. Sharp, I transact
it, therefrom holds when she says in her "Memoir" that the William Sharp pipeline was that
of the Will also the "Fiona Macleod" happening beyond the control of the Will. And live is true
that these three, the Spirit, Will, and Body, though each is liable a distinctive personality,
each a memory distinct from the mindfulness of the others, are all
but the component parts of one man.

Mrs. acid does not, however, anywhere allow right now a angle agency the possession of a natural
paired ethos by her husband, and she indubitably contradicts Mr. Yeats for his indication of belief that
"William Sharp could not go back what due to 'Fiona Macleod' he had said to you in conversation."
powerful different from these laconic stories I have been discussing are three of the four
contained in the compass entitled "Madge o' the Pool" (1896), well-known as by William Sharp.
Of the one that is somewhat in the manner of clear-cut of the "F.M." stories, the "Gypsy Christ,"
I have spoken. Two, "The Coward" and "The Lady influence Hosea," are but "the usual thing."
"Madge o' the Pool" is the one really worth while. pull this story, with such river pirates
as we have met, sentimentalized, in "Our Mutual Friend," over material, Sharp writes as realistically
as he does in "Silence Farm," and with a into also pathos that his objective method cannot
eliminate.

There are episodes or sketches, some of them what acerbic calls "prose imaginings," throughout
his many books, that unparalleled may hardly explicate short stories, or myths, or studies in
folk-lore, or criticism, or any of the other many kinds of writing that he essayed. Perhaps
"memories" would be the proper unvaried impart for writing of this kind. In midpoint every one of these
episodes or sketches well-qualified is a germ of a story, and some, I suppose, regard them considering
but potential art. But I for one am glad Mr. tart did not "work them up." grease them are some
of his best writing and some of that most personal and recognized. I have spoken of "Aileen"
also "Barabal"; "Sheumas, a Memory," is another that is memorable, and memorable too, are "The Sea
Madness" again "The Triad."

"The Triad" is almost his credo, certainly a bill of the things he
holds "most excellent"--"primitive genius, primitive love, primitive
memory."

Here Sharp recurs, through so repeatedly in his writing, to "ancestral memory," that possession
of men by which they are aware of what was direction the world before they were, through oneness with
the habitual memory into which they are absorbed in speculation or image or of which they become
wise by what we recount intuition. If such a proficiency be gala so that its possessor recalls only
clear-cut parts of antiquity, he is virtually in the draw of him who believes he remembers what
he remembers because of previous incarnations. I postulate no personal view to express on the
subject, but if such memories exist in us being of our participation command a universal mindfulness
or owing to of reincarnation, it is easy to contend why Sharp is culminating in his writing
of myths, his pictures of the wild beauties of voracity again fisticuffs again pipe dream
in barbaric Erin and Alba. It is thanks to he is the reincarnation of the shanachie of the indistinct
Ages. When he thought of reincarnation, however, in appositeness to himself, he thought, I think
no doubt, of himself being the reincarnation of a druid, one who had been well-informed of mysteries;
but what he without reservation was, control life, with his magnificent crave and bravado,--picturesque
raiment coterminous all and no more for the high-hearted and inherently ailing shape of him,--was
this reincarnation of the shanachie, such an particular due to his own Oran the Monk overripe tale-teller.
 This had pacified
her, and made her comfortable again, so she replied, "You are so kind, and so gallant, that I
don't think I can say 'no' to you anymore. Your sweet, compassionate nature has so overwhelmed
me that I cannot resist you any further, and I am willing to go to
bed with you.

He asked if they were safe where they were, and for reassurance that her husband would not be
home soon. Two winters were
painful. The death of a very close companion added to the misery. He died in the spring of ’42 under
the adverse circumstances of war. Vauvenargues takes great pride in remembering the pathetic
as well as the intrinsic worth of the destiny of his friend. This only reflects the approach
of a young man too extravagant and theatrical to be accepted by a seasoned thought. He grumbled
that it could not touch a single person who read it. But the matter of fact is that even a
most gentle feeling fail to affect us if the expression is dull and unnatural. Vauvenargues
fondness was distinctly very tender and sincere. If his life was smoother, this vulnerability would
have been out of the world and morose. He was affectionate towards his friends with enduring
lovability and composure. There was no concerns, whim, pride or any blemish in his feelings which
might let down the perception of his own individuality, and which is the root cause of any barrier
to a smooth and humanitarian life.
He was a man of great depth and great values. No unpleasant everlasting situation in life could have
affected him any way. Adversity of life did not bring any unpleasantness in him - he became
more tolerant and sensible. There could not have been any better indication of dignified behavior.

Apart from the pain and grief of the war, in his short life, Vauvenargues had to pass through
unpleasant and embarrassing constricted ways of life.
Letters written to his closest friend, Saint-Vincens reveal the course of his life that he had
to follow. The nature of route was not new and was followed by many young men in the world,
in want of money. I am afraid, he had undergone some adulteration while passing through such
swampy roads of life. In an instance he thought of taking advantage
of his wealthy neighbor with daughters. They were rebels, they weren't hiding that fact. It was engraved proudly
in their name and in their actions. So, as awful as it may have been when they swooped in and
confiscated all of the weapons and all of the property of those who stood loyal to the Union, it
should not have come as such a horrific shock. These men did not recognize the law or what
we may have deemed, right or good. They were rebels. Where is the proof? The Learned Public Prosecutor thought that
it would serve him well to indicate that more proof could be presented at a later stage in
the court hearing. This, I am sure will weigh on the mind of the commissioner as it would
have if we had suggested that there is a large amount of proof that is to be presented to the
court on behalf of Mr. Davis. This is not a game of boasting. It is not evidence that is not
present but the evidence that is presented that the case wil be decided. Pride has been broken,
Fear of Executive power, surprising everyone, terrorising everyone and disabling the judgments
of men. 

Based on what you see in the media and hear from public figures, you say that the justified
anti-slavery sentiments that were present in the English psyche have faded, maybe even disappeared.
You also claim that we haven't been sensitive and attentive enough to the Northern faction's
needs, and, further, that we have tacitly approved, if not outright supported the Southern
faction. At this point, there has been more than sufficient argumentation on the subject of the
complex motivations that led to this conflict, as is appropriate when dealing with things
that matter to people, particularly those intermittently occurring, insincere events that are
part and parcel of politics and governance during a time of war, bloodshed, and suffering. You'll
probably have some understanding and sympathy for the parties who haven't wanted to get deeply
involved. Their zeal to see justice done is moderated by the desire to see only the purely motivated
act with only the most perfect rightness, and they haven't been able to see, in all of your choices,
an unequivocal commitment to true freedom for all leading you to your destiny, sensing instead
more complex motives. You'll probably understand and be willing to dismiss malice against the people
who've been mislead by biased reporting in some of our media, specifically by pundits who hate
particular things about your own media and act on that basis rather than on any understanding of
deeper truths.

Even though all this has happened -- people who should have come to your defense, Lady, with
loud, supportive voices but instead remained silent -- people who, speaking to you for our nation,
this England, should have chosen the warmer words that better convey caring and compassion you
had a right to expect from us -- even though all this has happened,
don't believe that there is a true divide between our countries, or
that we have turned away from that valuing of freedom that, at one
time, made us great. Some of his bolder companions invented
a scheme for smuggling him onto panel a sudden merchant ship, but it was foiled via the vigilant
monitor of the British squadron off the islands of Oléron and Ré. At last he surrendered
himself onto panel the Bellerophon, relying, as he remarked, onto the honour of the British country,
and claiming the sporting safety of the prince regent. He was, however, clearly informed that he
would be at the disposal of the government.
 The preliminaries
of peace with your country, in October, 1801, were, however, soon followed with a rekindling of
our former friendly intercourse with the Ottoman Porte. The journey of Sebastiani to Egypt
and Syria, in the autumn of 1802, showed that our care for the inhabitants of these countries had not
disappeared, and that we soon intended to give them new hugs of fraternity. Your pretensions
to Malta impeded our hopes in the East, and your obstinacy obliged us to put off our plans of
encroachments. It was then that Bonaparte first selected for his representative to the Grand
Seignior, General Brune, commonly referred to by Moreau, Macdonald, and other competent judges of
military merit, an intriguer at the head of armies, and a warrior in time of peace when seated
in the Council chamber.  This Brune was, before the Revolution, a journeyman printer, and married
to a washerwoman, whose industry and labour alone prevented him from starving, for he was as
fierce as idle. The money he gained when he chose to work was generally squandered away in bars,
among hookers. To supply his excesses he had even remedy to dishonest means, and was shut up
in the prison of Bicetre for robbing his master of types and of paper.  In the beginning of
the Revolution, his very crimes made him an acceptable acquaintance of Marat, who, with the money
fronted by the Orleans faction, bought him a printing-office, and he produced the so infamously
well-known journal, called 'L'Amie du Peuple'. From the principles of this appalling paper,
and from those of his sanguinary patron, he created his own political creed. He distinguished
himself frequently at the clubs of the Cordeliers, and of the Jacobins, by his extravagant gestures,
and by aggravating laws of proscription against a wealth he did not possess, and against a
rank he would have dishonored, but did not see without jealousy. On the 30th of June, 1791,
he said, in the former of these clubs:  "We hear everywhere complaints of poverty; were not
our eyes so often disgusted with the sight of unnatural riches, our hearts would not so often
be shocked at the unnatural sufferings of humanity. The blessings of our Revolution will never
be felt by the world, until we in France are on a level, with regard to rank as well as to fortune.
I, for my part, know too well the dignity of human nature ever to bow to a superior; but, brothers
and friends, it is not enough that we are all politically equal, we must also be all equally rich
or equally poor--we must either all strive to become men of property, or reduce men of property
to become sans-culottes. Believe me, the aristocracy of property is more dangerous than the aristocracy
of prerogative or fanaticism, because it is more common. Here is a list sent to 'L' Amie du People',
but of which prudence yet prohibits the publication. It contains the names of all the men
of property of Paris, and of the Department of the Seine, the amount of their fortunes, and a proposal
how to reduce and divide it among our patriots. Of its great utility in the moment when we have
been striking our grand blows, nobody dares doubt; I, therefore, move that a brotherly letter
be sent to every society of our brothers and friends in the provinces, inviting each of them to
compose one of similar contents and of similar tendency, in their own districts, with what remarks
they think proper to affix, and to forward them to us, to be deposited, in the mother club, after
taking copies of them for the archives of their own society."  His motion was granted.
Two days afterwards, he again messaged the tribune. "You approved," said he, "of the measures
I lately proposed against the aristocracy of property; I will now tell you of another aristocracy
which we must also crush--I mean that of religion, and of the clergy.

Their supports are folly, cowardice, and ignorance. All priests are to be proscribed as criminals,
and despised as impostors or idiots; and all altars must be reduced to dust as unnecessary.
To prepare the public mind for such events, we must enlighten it; which can only be done by disseminating
extracts from 'L' Amie du People', and other philosophical publications. I have here some ballads
of my own composition, which have been sung in my quarter; where all superstitious persons have
already trembled, and all fanatics are raving. If you think proper, I will, for a mere trifle,
print twenty thousand copies of them, to be distributed and disseminated gratis all over France."
After some dialogue, the treasurer of the club was made to advance Citizen Brune the sum necessary,
and the secretary to transmit the ballads to the fraternal societies in the provinces.  Brune
put on his primary regimentals as an aide-decamp to General Santerre in December, 1792, after
having given proofs of his military prowess the preceding September, in the massacre of the prisoners
in the Abbey.
 XXI At noon to-day Murphy and Mame were tied. A gospel huckster did
the referee, And all the Drug Clerks' Union loped to observe The sovereign of Minnie Street become
a bride, And that horrid performer, Murphy, by her boundary, Standing where Yours Despondent must
to be. I went to secure a beam in front of me, But weeps were in my glimmers when I tried. The
pastor murmured, "Two and two make one," And slid a sixteen K on Mamie's grab; And when the game was
fastened and all was wrapped up The tenants shied footwear at the bridal cab, And Murphy's little
gilt-roofed male kin Jim Snickered, "She's left her cheerful household for him."

HOW "RUBY" PLAYED

BY GEORGE W. BAGBY

(Jud Brownin, when staying at New York, moves to learn Rubinstein, and renders the subsequent
delineation of his playing.)

Well, sir, he had the blamedest, largest, catty-cornerdest pianner you ever arranged eyes on;
somethin' like a sidetracked billiard-table on three legs. The seal was hoisted, and powerful well
it was. If it hadn't been, he'd 'a' slashed the every part of indoors clean out and shattered
'em to the four winds of heaven.

Played well? You gamble he did; but don't disturb me. When he first take a seat he 'peared
to keer powerful little 'bout playin' and wisht he hadn't come. He tweedle-leedled a little on a
treble, and twoodle-oodled some on the base,--just foolin' and boxin' the thing's jaws for bein'
in his way. And I declares to a man sittin' adjacent me, declares I, "What sort of fool playin'
is that?" And he declares, "Heish!" But presently his hands commenced chasin' one another up
and down the keys, like a passel of rats scamperin' through a garret very swift. Parts of it was
pleasant, though, and recollected me of a sugar squirrel turnin' the wheel of a sugar lollies
cage.

"Now," I declares to my nearby, "he's showin' off. He considers he's a-doin' of it, but he ain't
got no idee, no arrange of nothin'. If he'd play me a song of some kind or other, I'd--"

But my nearby declares, "Heish!" very impatient.

I was just about to git up and depart household, bein' fatigued of that foolishness, when I
discovered a little bird stirring up away off in the woods and call sleepy-like to his buddy, and
I looked up and observe that Rubin was commencing to take some onvolvement in his enterprise,
and I take a seat again. It was the peep of day. The light-weight came shadowy from the east,
the breezes blowed soft and novel, some more birds waked up in the orchard, then some more
in the trees close to the home, and all commenced singin' together. People commenced to blend,
and the gal opened the shutters. Just then the first beam of the sun plunged upon the blossoms
a leetle more, and it techt the roses on the bushes, and the next thing it was extensive day;
the sun without bias blazed, the birds sung out like they'd separate their little throats;
all the moves out was movin', and flashin' precious jewels of dew, and the total large world
was radiant and cheerful as a king. Seemed to me like there was a good wakeup food performing
in every home in the land, and not a unwell young offspring or woman
anywhere. It was a fine mornin'.

And I declares to my nearby, "That's
tunes, that is."

But he glared at me like he'd like to slice my throat.

Presently
the airstream turned; it commenced to congeal up, and a kind of gray
mist came over things; I got low-spirited directly. Then a bright
precipitation commenced to fall. I could observe the lets depart contact
the ground; some blazed up like long pearl ear-rings, and remnant
turned over away like around rubies. It was beautiful, but melancholy.
Then the pearls collected themselves into long strands and necklaces,
and then they softened into lean bright rivers, running between golden
gravels, and then the rivers united each other at the foundation of
the mountain, and made a brook that outpoured hushed, except that
you could kinder observe the tunes, principally when the bushes on
the banks transferred as the tunes went along down the valley. I could
reek the blooms in the meadow. But the sun didn't gleam, neither the
birds sing: it was a foggy day, but not cold.

The most enquiring
thing was the little white angel-boy, like you observe in photos,
that run before the tunes brook and commanded it on, and on, away
out of the world, where no man ever was, certain, I could observe
the male offspring just as basic as I observe you. To
create the color crimson, mix carmine and white, working to deepen the shaded portions of the
picture by adding more carmine.
To render flesh color, start with light red tones and then brighten the warmer parts and then
use carmine to soften the lighter parts using white while then shading
with burnt sienna and purple.

To create a lead color, combine indigo and white togther until the desired color is achieved.

Render scarlet by mixing carmine and light red.
When working with Daruerrerotypists, accompany Jewelry cups of gold and silver preparations or
consider procuring each by themselves.
Laying colors on Daguerreotypes requires a considerable amount of skill and talent because it
takes the form of a dry powder which us difficult to work with. Experiments are in process to
find an easier method to work with this powder and when a new method is discovered it will
be announced in a future issue.
For those coloring Daguerreotypes, much insight can be gained by reviewing miniture paintings
but no hard and fast rules apply as artists learn through observation.
The author is confident that new methods will be uncovered that will show users how to combine
colors to achieve a pleasing and more organic outcome to the pictures than is already rendered
through past methods of layering them which is a cruder and less refined way.
When coloring Daguerreotypes, the basic colors of the head are derived from bistre, combined with
burnt sienna while adding in a combination of carmine and indigo. Flesh tone is rendered with
the use of light red, mixing in yellow ochre, blue and carmine while also combining indigo.
Warmer tones can be achieved by using an abundant amount of carmine or lake. When rendering the
mouth or neck, yellow ochre, blue and small amounts of carmine should be used and the effect can be
enhanced with carmine and light red. The red should be used on the upper lip while carmine should
be applied to the lower lip. Burnt sienna can be used with carmine at the corners of the mouth.

Different techniques should be used when coloring mens and women's eyes. With women, warmer colors
should be applied as this provides a transparency that is more flattering to women and it can be
combined with a little white also. This provides more beauty and compliments the face in a
positive manner. Darker coloring should be used with men.
Capturing women with light or auburn hair is quite challenging using
the Daguerren method as the natural beauty of a face is diminished
because light colored portions of the image isn't conveyed well by
the camera.

Using propering coloring techniques after taking the picture may remedy this problem. Adding
burnt sienna to the shaded or dark parts of the image while using yellow ochre in lighter
areas with a subtle use of burnt sienna is a proper technique. In portions of the image that
may show a blue impression, small amounts of purple can be added.
Blue can also be used at the roots of the hair while eyebrows should
have a pinkish coloring. 
When rendering a woman's chin, the coloring
should match the glow of the cheeks. With men, a bluish coloring can
be used to render a shadowy effect that resembles a beard. More than that, they were so fine and fit they wouldn't place a foot on the
ground unless there was a carpet laid down for them to walk on.
I'm told that it was certainly was a spectacle to see those people strolling on the carpets, rustling
the silk clothes that were trailing behind them, chatting and nodding to themselves, though
never acknowledging the common people on the ground, never even glancing at them.
Moreover, they were so snobbish that they thought the earth itself was beneath their notice. They
walked along with heads and their eyes raised high.
Rest assured their actions did not endear themselves with commoners, for people naturally do not care
for being looked down upon when it is obvious that all are really equals in the end.
They continued in this manner, becoming increasingly pompous and arrogent until at last they stole the
people's attention from God, who must have been thinking "Who are these arrogent people, strutting
about and spurning my earth with carpets? Who are these people who treat my creation as if
it were dirt beneath their feet, who despise their brethren for being common, with eyes raised
as if to disdain to look upon that which I made?
I must punish these presumptuous people and teach them that all of My creation is equal in My sight."

So the Lord God passed judgement on the moles. First He took away their human shape and He shrank
them to their current size to indicate their worth in His sight.
Then, because they thought themselves too good to walk upon the bare
ground, He sent them to live underneath it, where that were forced
to claw and dig their way. 1838 saw little houses up for sale, but by 1840 the
village was blooming with 1700 inhabitants, and by 1850 this number had grew to a great 20'000.
The land in which the city is built upon has increased in price drematically over the last 20 years,
inhabitants are leaving the city, in order to get the proceeds of their land, and moving further
west to places such as Wisconsin and Minesota. There is a constant
flow of people heading towards the Rocky mountains that cannot be
halted. Animadversion fifth point will demand little. Idolizers
most bigoted of state authority have shown thus far not to deny a judicial provision cognizances
maritime cases. These so generally depend on the laws of nations, and so commonly affect the rights
of foreigners, they enter into the considerations that are related to public policy. The most important
part of them, the present Confederation, submitted to federal jurisdiction.
Reasonableness of the agency to national courts where state courts
may have to be impartial, speaks for itself.

No man should definitely be a judge in his own case, or any other
reason why he has the least interest or bias.

This principle is no difficulty in designating negligible federal courts to determine the proper
courts controversies between different states and their citizens. And should have the same operation
in regard to some cases between citizens of the same State. Land claims under grants of different
states, based on claims of border effects are of this description. None of the Member granting
the courts could be expected to be impartial. Laws can be predicted even question and related court
decisions established for state subsidies to which they belonged. And even if this was not
done, it would be natural for judges, as men, should feel a strong inclination to support their
own government. The
darlings gather around my knees, and one, more beautiful than the rest, thoughtfully asks: "Why
is Uncle Budge's hair not snowy white, like yours, dear Deb?" "Uncle Budge says he is very
old, and soon God will take him away from us."
ADVENTURES IN JAPAN Thus
that kind field would have been known as a white field, and it's natural that that would have come
to be applied generally to all sorts of grassy areas. It probably should be said here that the
word is said like "bawn" in spoken Irish but it would be said like "bane" in English. In the latter,
it souns more like the a in the word hat.
Because the Irish word for cow is bo, this wording may have stemmed
from that. Wasn't it the Capital? Mr.Tucker is never in the least much vulgar and is very funny!
The fact that there are girls in the room is really forgotten by some new comic singers.--(My love,
Lily, just go and see if your uncle is coming down).--Mr.Carew, I assure you that i was staying
in a country house last year--mind, No names were given by me--where the songs only fit for a music-hall!!
It's absolutely true; hearing such things in a drawing room made even George feel qu8ite red.
But, like i said, Mr.Tucker is very different, such a genuine humour."
If our conversation hadn't been interrupted by Miss Latouche, it would be quite impossible to predict
how long my amiable hostess would have rippled on in this strain.
"Have you been introduced?" Mrs. Maitland whispered; and she called out merrily without waiting
for an answer."My dear Irene, you must positively come and fantasy Mr.Carew. He will avoid
early rising if he realises it is always to mean a tete-a-tete with an old woman!"
To my surprise, Miss Latouche replied in the same jesting tone, and
taking the vacant seat which was next to mine just beegan to talk
in the most friendly way one could imagine.

Not a trace of eccentricity was perceptible in her manner. She was almost a handsome girl, with
a strong sense of originality. I began to suspect the proof of my senses. Surely i must have
been experiencing some hallucination last night.It was very easy to believe that I had been a dupe of
some portentous nightmare than any charming girl shoul have enacted such a strange part.

Before finishing breakfast I was certain that I had taken a very exaggerated view of the situation.
It would be pity to avoid a pleasant visit and risk offending some of my oldest friends on such
purely fanciful grounds. I just remembered that i had give a holiday to my cook and that if i
go home i should depend on the culinary skill of a charwoman. This last consideration convinced
me. I settled to stay.

Nothing led me to regret my decision in Miss Latouche's behaviour. On the contrary, at the end
of a few days we were firm friends. The better I came to know about her the greater became my
admiration of her beauty and talents; and , without vanity, I hope i should say that she preffered
me over the other guests, who were mostly very ordinary types of modern young men. The frantasy
impressions of the first evening almost faded from my mind, when they were suddenly revived
in all their intensity by the following incident.
The morning was wet and we were all lolling about the snooker-room in various stages of boredom.
Some of the more energetic members of the party had been out at dawn, cub hunting, and returned
wet through just as we finished breakfast, in time ti increase their small quota of grumbling to
tghe general bulk of discontent. Mrs. Maitland, after making a fruitless attempt to rally the
party spirits , gave up the effort in despair and retired to write letters in her room. The
conversation was carried out in fits and starts, whilst from time
to time people knocked about the billiard balls in a disultory fashion
without showing even a sign of interest in the result of the game. The room is about
30 square feet and has white walls with nothing on them except a calendar, a picture of a race
horse and a family tree in a gilded frame. To the right, there is a door from the bar, with
a few shoes in the doorway, and in the corner is a bar with a man standing at with dressed
in white, with waxed black mustaches and a carefully oiled curl plastered to his forehead. In
the other corner are two tables with food, which some guests are already eating. At the head
of the table where the bride sits is a white cake with an Eiffel tower decoration, with sugar
roses and two angels on top, and its covered in pink and green and yellow candies.
 Nonetheless, he remarkably applies it to the drama. "Though it may be easily
absorbed by the memory, an extension is imperative. In relevance
to the wanting state of the representation, the determined length
does not come within the sphere of Art. So this
is why lovers are always asked to repeat themselves over and over again. The magic word upon which all
of their happiness depends. 

"The reason-- You know-- The reason
why." He stammered. She came to his aid. 

"Yes, I know, but tell me." Grayson located the book and
the site, and read:--
"Two minutes' lie down till the next man goes in! The sleepy arms lie with every sinew slack On
the mown grass. Unbent the supple back, And elbows apt towards earn the leather revolve Up the
slow bat and round the unwary shin,-- In knavish hands a most unkindly knack; But none guile
secures below the boy's black Crisp hair, frank eyes, and sincere English skin. Two minutes
only! Conscious of a name, The novel man plants his weapon with profound Long-practised expertise
that none mere magic may scare. Not loth, the rested lad resumes the game: The thrown ball robs
one maddening, tortuous attached, And the mid-stump three somersaults within air!"
"Topping!" the Boy ejaculated. "Who wrote it?"
"His name was Lefroy. He died young. He deserted Oxford a few years ahead of we went up. And
I think," persisted Verinder, musing, "that I, whom loath making contacts, would grant at this moment
a extensive sum towards possess known him. Well," he persisted, cornering towards me and puffing
at his pipe, "so you warn Grayson and me that we ought prepare towards relinquish these and
everybody the else treats sung via Lefroy and Norman Gale and that else poet--anonymous, but you know
the man--in his incomparable parody of Whitman: 'the heavenly feel of a fourer'--
"'The thousand melodious gaps, delicious gaps, the responsive echoes of my comrades and the hundred
thence resulting operates, passionately yearned for, never, never again towards be forgotten.

"'Overhead meanwhile the splendid quiet sun, blending everybody, fusing everybody, washing everybody
within floods of gentle ecstatic perspiration.'
"--To everybody this we ought say good-bye. And what do you bid ourselves within exchange?"

"Merely the old consolation that life is short, art is long; that whilst you evolve old, cricket
within else hands shall be working out its perfection, and your son, when you possess one, shall
activate with upper values than you ever dreamed of."
"And this perfection--will it ever be attained?"

"I dare say never. For possibly we may say as soon as Plato, and without irreverence, that the
pattern of heavenly cricket is laid up somewhere within the skies,
and out of man's reach. But between it and ordinary cricket we may
predetermined up a mimic of perfection, as finish as man can earn
it, and, via little and little, closer every year. This mimic shall
be stored, and nursed, and gained, via those businesswoman cricketers
against whom the unthinking possess so much towards say; via these
and via the few amateurs whom, as moment goes onto, shall be located
able towards carry the strain. The account of this alienation
accustomed by my grandfather, was that there had been a altercation about land; but conceivably
he may accept acquainted some airiness about cogent his accouchement that his apprehensive
alliance had contributed to cede the break permanent. However this may accept been, my grandmother
never already saw the central of her brother-in-law's house, and if she died there was, I believe,
not even the academic announcement of comfort that is accepted a part of acquaintances. Gilbert
Hamerton had lived at Hollins, a abode and acreage affiliated from his mother; and James Hamerton,
the ancient brother, lived in a castellated bark or bound belfry at Hellifield, which had
been congenital by Lawrence Hamerton in 1440. The two places are not abundant added than twenty
afar apart; but the brothers never met afterwards their quarrel, and my grandfather's sons
and daughters never saw their uncle's house. One aftereffect of the alienation was that we
hardly seemed to accord to our own family; and I bethink a lady, who had some actual ambiguous
and atramentous claims to a abroad affiliation with the ancestors at Hellifield, allurement one
of my aunts in a rather arrogant address if she aswell did not "claim to be connected" with the
Hamertons of Hellifield Peel. Even to this day it is difficult for me to apprehend the simple
actuality that she was niece to an uncle whom she had never seen,
and aboriginal accessory to his successor.

My grandfathering had lived in allegedly accomplished bloom till the age of seventy-seven, if one
afternoon as he was built-in in his dining-room at Hollins, cipher getting present except
his earlier babe Mary, he asked her to accessible the window, and again added, "Say a prayer."
She anon began to echo a abbreviate prayer, and afore she had accomplished the end of it he
was dead. There is a aberrant adventure affiliated with his death, which may be account something
to those who yield an absorption in what is now alleged "Psychical Research." At the aforementioned
hour his affiliated babe was sitting in a allowance forty afar abroad with her little boy, a adolescent
just old abundant to talk, and the adolescent stared with acute absorption at an abandoned chair.
His mother asked what admiring his attention, and the adolescent said, "Don't you see, mamma,
the old admirer who is sitting in that chair?" I am accurate not to add details, as my own
acuteness ability aback amplify them, but my consequence is that the adolescent was asked to
call the eyes added minutely, and that his description absolutely accorded with his grandfather's
accepted appearance.
 

I noted neither residues nor rejections. The crowd ate up the show and wanted more.

These tales of her life are important parts to another life she shall lead.

We see that she has strong emotions, is excitable and patient, yet her mind wanders into a spiritual
world, one that has much to offer the student of dramatic experiences. Can we blame her desire
to mingle with emotions and spiritual uncertainty. Can we understand how many will oppose her desire
to reach the next world? to face her maker?, to address falsehoods in her human community?

Her critics could not fault her, for her desire to acheive enlightenment, to rise from a world
of doubt and to work hard at an attitude that will leave her acceptable by her maker or her
religion.

She realizes that falling from grace will lead to punishments by the maker, grievances with fellow
man. Yet, this does not deter her from her purpose.

She admits sin, admits that her life was not perfect. There were flaws in her character that she
regrets. Blaming herself, all this time, is not the way of her maker. She knows that he will
forgive. She knows that the frailties and weaknesses of man and woman are known, that her maker
forgives and accepts her for the good woman that she is. She knows that without proper guidance,
any man or woman can stray from the path of the truth of God.

Though Madame Guyon over-emphasized the dramatic quality of her religious experience, she knows
that her conservative soul and patient heart will be accepted by God. She has taken an interest
in helping other women get over the frailties of their mortality and to find the path of God in their
lives. These women will be the focus of her love for life and God.

She herself, many years before, was an object of beauty and temptation and she knows well
how many young women of today feel inside.

Madame Guyon with her life of sweetness and womanly qualities has experienced enough of life's
temptations to accurately express them to youner women of less experience.

IV. AFFLICTIONS AND DEPRESSION

A friend and mentor, Genevieve Granger, of the convent, Beneditine, whom inspired the Madam
from a time of doubt to a sure-footed woman whom is one with God. It was no small feat to bring
the Madam to a state of enlightenment. It was no easy task for Genevieve Granger.
There were others in the Madam's life that were a nuissance to this
new way of life. A husband and mother-in-law were part of the picture.
Her husband having a bad temper and lack of patience. Her husband's
constant negativity had drained the Madam of her will and purity.
She had to dig deep within herself to overcome this situation.

To
add on the the adversity in her life, the Madam's young son, died
of a disease. He was taken to his maker without known reason. Yet
with all of the sadness from this event, the Madam held on to her
religious beliefs.

She made a friend of Father La Combe in 1671,
by way of an introduction from a family member, Father La Mothe. Father
La Mothe was on a quest for inner peace. He took great joy in helping
the Madam reach her destiny.Her victories became his victories. 

The
following year was also grim, as the Madam lost her daughter. God
once again, claimed her child, as well as her father, a short time
later. Madam looked at these events as opportunities to get closer
to her maker, closer to her own divine existance. She did not allow
these events to stray her from her path to a union with God. Düspeptos
.-- There is no about the oats, a "EF not existed, would not hurt you none. It is a joke kernel"
nuts mixed together.
.-- Eupeptos dangerous combination. I have no ambition military - would give a rush for a spread
eagle - I do not like mouthy by a mortar.
Düspeptos .-- Well, I Mout that Wal vamose s long as I Hove in my rations. Already gone risin 'a
good half ounce of my or'nary above' lowance. 'T is to dissipate Wun't EF even feller a'n't
to sing a "no one is wiser. allers Nature leg will invoice all high as a "bank.
Eupeptos. (Trolling with a low voice celebrated Barcarolle,
"Bark is my bank, etc.) -
Wait, oh wait, gentle stranger!

See YON fatly floating sausage! Be persevering, not to go, but come! Prithee once more to return
to the festive board! Lo! this - the fattest of the herd - be part of your most favored Benjamin!

Düspeptos. (- Muttering away) -. That's a numbskull RAAL ranger jo-fired. He did not know about
any skirt principles "human nature" than the babe unborn. Reg'lar goney. I know if he jokin
'or airnest sober. Good mind to navigate into it anyway. MM not Guess' is, however, let him Natur.
He would stuff himself to death rather quickly ... pitchin 'in p'is'n ... ... six board Hearst
coroner verdick box ... ... run over by a potato ... engineer's dooty ....
IX .-- FINAL (con motivo.)
But time would fail to tell you many gold flakes so thick, sewn Web
hastening of these hours jumble. Oh! then dim twilight, when the feet
to toe set perpendicular to the scratch, I stood up to one another,
with glaring eyes by candlelight, and gave and took manfully, fighting
old battles again Bourbon vs. China , the King James vs. Virginia
Graham vs Greece! "Look at the bloody wound for me, my lord Fingin" said Ceth.
He came to me a couple of young soldiers Fian is a brilliant appearance, stately and tall man-as
they were; .. beautiful clothing from distant countries, they each of them [1] he thrust of a spear
[1] me. [2] and [2] thrust [3] This is a spear 3] all [of them ". Fingin looked into the bloody wound."
Cunning are the bloody wounds they inflicted on you, "said the doctor," they cut the strings
of your heart in you, so your heart through roles in the chest, like an apple on the run or a ball
of wool in an empty bag, and no line at all to support him, [4] and there are no tools to heal yourself
or to save you from [4] and no treatment I'm here "effect.
"Yes, but we know that Mark Twain," said Cuchulain, "a pair of champions from Norway, [5], which
are killed because of his cunning and violence, [5] was sent to a particular Ailill and Medb
to you, not so often will be one on the issue alive for their struggle, and it would be her
that you need to get on their hands.

"

[4-4] Stowe. "Why, alternative wounded father and son we see here," replied the doctor. "Yes
it is," said Ceth ", two great men, red as torches, came over me there, diadems of burnished
gold on her, wearing robes and gold-hilted, forged swords at their belts, with vaginal pure
white silver [6] with a refined and delicate, ornate embossing [6] and supports outside the
gold sprinkled on it.
"Yes, but we know that the" couple, "said Cuchulain, [. W.4399] Ailill and his son, you, Man."
covers all the features of "Do you think the victory and triumph, and boast should you fall
into their hands."
[6-6] Stowe.
So much for the "bloody wounds" of the Táin.
Say, oh Fingin prophetic leech, "said Fintan Ceth son," what sentence and give me what lawyer now?
"
"This is truly what I tell you, " replied Fingin the prophetic leech, "Do not count on your great
cows for yearlings this year, because if you think it's not you, enjoy that they will, and any
profit they bring you .
"This is the verdict of the Council and other surgeons gave me, and without doubt it brought
them neither advantage nor profit, and they fell on my hands, and no one will bring you benefit
or profit, and you will fall in my hands! "
And he gave Fingin a strong, stiff kick with his foot and sent it between the cars of the two
wheels [1] and the creaking of the wagon may have heard far off to be [1].
[1-1] Stowe.
"Oh, is malicious, but the kickfrom the the old warrior , "cried Cuchulain ;"!Fields are matching
,if you should able to enemies than leeches "[ 2][2]For this word is the name Uachtar Lua ( "the
height of the kick ") in the land of Ross from then until now.
[2-2] YBL. 42a, 50-51.
Nevertheless, [. LL.fo.91a] Fingin the prophet-leech was his election to the son of Fintan Ceth:
a long illness for him and then you get help and assistance, or a red [a] cure for a period of three
days and three nights So that he will employ his power over his enemies.
What Ceth son Fintan chose was a red healing for the period of three
days and three nights to the end that he might then vent [3] his anger
and force [3] to its enemies. Because what he said was that it would
not be found for him he would have preferred a warrant or avenge him
than himself. [W.4420.] Fingin then asked the prophetic leech of Cuchulain
a VAT rate of bone marrow to cure and heal which Ceth to Fintan son.
Cuchulain went into the camp and entrenchment of the men of Erin,
and what he found of herds and flocks there, he took away with him.
And he had a bone marrow transplant-mash made from their flesh and
their bones and skin, and Ceth son Fintan was placed in the bone marrow-bath
till the end of three days and three nights. And his flesh began in
the bone marrow Bad about him and the marrow-bath entered in his stabs
and drink his cuts, his sores and his many wounds. And Diez for the shore of Hispania, does not quit his Indian
bride.

D.A.H.
*****
RECENT VISIT TO POMPEII
(For the Mirror.)
For the following details as regards a city, accounts of which (even though there are many already
publicly available, are always intriguing. I owe a speech of a friend that I wrote down.
M.L.B.
My object in paying a visit to Naples was to see the celebrated relic of antiquity, Pompeii,
of which, half should be cleared. The workers proceed slowly, but something is always being
accomplished, and some new discoveries are made everyday. We discovered a fine statue almost right
after my cisit to this interesting area, but as I had left Naples, I couldn't return to look
at it. A stranger, in my opinion is bound to be in disappointment in Pompeii's size, it was not
more than three miles and is considered more of a town model. In fact, it's just an Italian villa,
or properly a set of villas; and a smallness of what we can call
citizens' boxes is another source of amazement to those who have been
used to think about Roman architecture in the magnitude. Pompeii is
always the interest of the intelligent observer however. not because
of its bad and sad company, than the opportunity it presents, of remarking
the commonality between, the ways of life then and now "Take
all three and then I'll send them on their way home at once. Where is there any honour left
in this world?"
"I wouldn't go anywhere," cried the artist, who startled from his sleep perceived the brisk dealer
about the tie up the three unfortunate daubs. His first though was to simply walk away but
something made him stay a bit longer and buy something, after all he'd been there for quite
some time and the hungry-looking shopkeep looked tired. "Wait a bit, Let me see if anything
suits me" he said. And there he was turning over a number of dusty old pictures from your grandmother's
attic, heaped on the ground. They were mostly old family portraits, the likeness of some unknown
figures, with disheveled canvas, frames, and a few sneezes worth
of dust. Although this superb picture may be pulled
in too-warm tints it is not however without its level of justness. The people of the country love
flowers in the ornament of their persons, and support their growth, as well as that of several
odoriferous shrubs and trees.
KANANGA.
The kananga (Uvaria cananga, L.) being a tree of the biggest size, surpassed by not many in the
forest, may well take the top position, on that view, in a description of those which bear flowers.

These are of a greenish yellow, less distinguishable from the leaves, among which the bunches hang
down in a unpredictable manner.
Nearing sunset, if the evening be calm, they give out a fragrance around that affects the sense
at the space of few hundred yards.
CHAMPAKA.
Champaka (Michelia champaca). This tree grows in a usual, conical shape, and is ornamental in
gardens. The flowers are a type of small tulip, but close and pointed at top; their colour
a deep yellow, the fragrance strong, and at a distance acceptable. They are kept in the folds
of the hair, both by the women, and by young men who target at gallantry.
TANJONG. 
Bunga tanjong (Mimusops elengi, L.) A fair tree, rich
in foliage, of a dark green; the flowers little, radiated, of a yellowish
white, and worn in wreaths by the women; their fragrance, though beautiful
at a distance, is too strong when brought after sunset. The fruit
is a drupe, having a large blackish flatted seed. 
GARDENIA. 
Sangklapa
(Gardenia flore simplice). Like spoils of war they were brought to Paris. They were still king and queen,
though the titles carried no value, and were placed under virtual house arrest in their palace of
hte Tuileries. All of Europe looked on with eyes covered though peeking through their fingers
to see what would happen. In England the Liberals cheered at what they thought was the first
domino for the movement of popular soverienty. Leftest policitians of every stripe praised the
fall of the Bastille. All of the jockying for 5 minutes of fame to
give their blessing to the revolution. I have heard from many people that it can be
difficult to maintain the level of heat they need at all times, which makes it difficult to
keep mature ones for a long period of time, and even more difficult to raise them from infancy.
They are sensitive to many things, so it's very easy to feed them
the wrong thing, which could cause problems with digestion. Italy has been granted contrary to the Yugoslavs a solely strategic
opportunity, which locations under her dominion over 500,000 reluctant Slovenes, whose heritage
is admittedly on a higher grade than that of their Italian neighbours. And yet the Ambassadors'
Conference (in which Italy performances a famous part) has denied to give Yugoslavia a strategic
opportunity contrary to a much more turbulent close by, which opportunity,
furthermore, would encompass of alien topics only a little part of
the number which Italy has obtained.

The Albanian opportunity now enforced on Yugoslavia is very much
like that which the treaties of 1815 provided to France, when the
route (trouée) of Couvin, often called erroneously the trouée of
the Oise, at a short expanse from Paris, was purposely opened.

 "Is that Jack's coat? Good, if he wears that tomorrow, he'll look like a shepherd,"
said John.
"He's not going to wear it tomorrow, we're going to the beach for the day. By the way, where is Jack?
I need some help with my homework and I can't wait until tomorrow," said Fairy, walking into
the kitchen.
(To be continued) 
"SHE COULD BURN WATER" 
OR, 
HOW SHE LEARNED
TO BE A HOUSEKEEPER 
BY DORA HOPE 
PART II 
The next day, the
doctor told Mr. hastings that the only way Mrs. Wilson would get better
was with peace and quiet, and keep her from getting upset. 

War is the most prominent art between all the arts which help improve the life of human race and that
have improved greatly with the passing of time.
 Represents St. Edmund's coffin
temporarily deposited in the church of San Gregorio-per-St. Paul (having been brought to denounce
the security during a raid of the Danes), and an attempt by the bishop and the canons to ensure
precious relic of the cathedral. Here Lydgate metric version of the story, telling how the attempt
was foiled by the saint himself.
It cam to eve Londene later, the men whos komyng blynde syht kauhte. Whan was entered and they
were lame Crepylgate The grace that upryht goon, Peeples was maad Thouhtful lyht cheerful,
and there is a woman contrauct LYVE hir al, Crying for Help, was maad as blyve Hool.
Thre yeer heeld the martyr is resydence, Tyl Ayllewyn be Removed Bysshop revelation in a day license
Kyng ageyn Leede Edmund denounce the city. But for a maner symulacion The bysshop been waived,
and under that Werch gan Hym translate into cherche Powlys;
After a day taken with thre clerkis HYM, Entreth the Gregorio Seyn cherche out in full effect, yiff
that Wolde, Kary On Tuesday thenys prevyly swing. But it was therto bysshop more BESY Whan the
body for Forto gon Poulis, Yt FYX appeared as a hill outside GRET ston.
Avayle myhte midday crowd, whether there fforce Al Dyde and Peyne BESY; For but travayle And from
there it went. The peple left the gan dysdeyne bysshop: Drauht out corde or any electrolyte
or nouht myhty halp Chaynes - this is not a fable Myracle - For a show lik its current form ylyche
stable.
Gan the mervaylle Wherupon bysshop, completely out of diffraudyd entencion. And there is power and fforce
Whan gan to faylle, Neer kam Skin conditions Ayllewyn with humble, meek knelyng sayd its orysoun:
The Kyng requeryng humbled by the love of his Crystes contre Owyn
shold do not give up. "Give me gravitation and development,
and I will supplant a universe," said the author who had written the vestiges. This author
of the Vestiges had great ambitions for building an empire while Alexander (the Great) hoped to secure
a conquest of the world.

He (the author) thinks his efforts to hook the story of creation to the natural sciences is
the first, but it is not. He thinks his effort to prove that nature is one grand system of cause
and effect within itself is unique and revolutionary, but it is not. It is a relatively common
notion, actually and one that leaves those in pursuit of it frustrated, empty or even hurt.
It is of an essence that fills one's mind but in the end actually was taking up wasted space,
for it does not teach us anything more.

More currently the advances in science which would include the fields of geology, chemistry,
astrology and electricity, have increased man's knowledge, not a loss at all but a march ahead
into and apprehension of amazement and intelligence where we might find an eternal variety of
knowledges to behold.

Sometimes in an effort to generalize, things show up as being a fruitful system, if these things
fail to show promise or fruitfulness new ideas arise from it all. These new ideas create new avenues
of research and deeper probes into the minds of the scientists and researchers seeking evidence
of what the things in the universe are all about. Each time a new truth is unraveled, although,
it barely gets noticed for long in the vast world of science. Each new quest and each new truth
in merely a small piece of the puzzle. What the truth does do in a weighty manner is calm the
masses and soothe their worries. It gets a general stroke of acceptance or recognition and helps
in setting a standard for the moment.

Take the Vestiges of Creation, for example, by taking what we already know or believe we know
and organizing it in an orderly fashion, even sans the theology, people were excited to read it.
The manual was more spoken of than the Principles of Newton. These hypotheses could not hurt
that much, since they were speculated by a human or humans and everyone knows they were, so they
could think for themselves how fully they chose to agree. More books like this and people, even
whole societies, would not get stagnated with ignorant beliefs. Like the time when the whole
of Europe was spellbound by Aristotle and his works in physics. Not that his thought provoking
insights were not worthwhile, juxtaposing one's imagination with concrete facts is a fine occupation,
but he was only human. With the works of more philosophers, scientists and research analysts
among others who enjoy knowledge and science, circulating general population can grow in their
intellect as a society, if not immediately, definitely, one day.

Mr. Robert Chambers, who wrote Vestiges, may make his post in libraries and data banks forever as
one small component in the understanding of how things came into being, or he may pass under
as an a wishful dreamer with disproved theories. He probably will receive some credit for
his work although. When he wrote the book, it had been some time since anyone had contemplated
the sequence of things in nature and took a break from all the architectural things that always
fascinate man from one time in history to the next.

There is something about nature itself that surpasses the earth in grandeur. Erosion and transition
come and go leaving scars and cracks upon the earth, resources can be exhausted but in nature there
is a never ending power and fascination, so when theorists, philosophers
and other intellectuals make a stab at what its all about, there is
never any tarnish, just exploration and hope.

Even if Mr. Chambers
were to prove all of his theories, there would be little lessening
in faith, or lacking in wonderment of the world. If he preferred matter,
or, if he preferred spiritual blessings make no difference to the
rest of us. Those who try to think a bit more than the rest of us
tend to have possession of a very ardent faith.

It is getting to
the point, although, to look beyond the "Vestiges of Creation" and
patiently ask questions. It is time to form arguments and make a treatise
or an agreement that we can all feel good about, by looking for supported
theories and publising these theories for all to see. To you the citizens,The danger that comes from foreign populations
should be met in this way.To say that this country is for the Americans that are clothed in
these 7 attributes. I do not embellish the danger to remind you that there are huge movements
among the people such has never been seen before.I remind you that the population of Europe
has risen to 27 million between 1870 to 1880.At this rate Europe can send us 2 million immigrants
every year for the next 100 years. The Spanish and German courts sent to the stake victims
accused of being conversos or witches. Ct. Dousia, Documents, Vol. i, p.ccv, and Appendix B states
the number of 42 out of 930.
 

Earl of Crawford the 26th and Balcarres have printed a bibliography of public announcements, vols.
v. and vi. of his 'Bibliotheca Lindesiana.' [Sidenote: Civil War and Commonwealth.]
12.
Civil War and Commonwealth is a sub-heading of No. 30--History; but among book-collectors it is a
subject of intrest, volumes issued during this period are sui generis and most of them are
of interest.
With the end of the Star Chamber around 1641 and with the sudden decrease in number of printers,
the presses started to put forth political tracts and books of various kinds. It goes without saying
that a large sum of books thus issued were nameless publications. Although two years further
an Order for the Regulating laws of Printing, and Cromwell's censorship were applied by an Act
in 1649. A large amount of printed political material continued throughout the time, to make its
appearance on the book stalls of the shops. What would Cromwell not have done to stop 'Killing
no Murder'! Edwards' 'Catalogue of the Great Rebellion Tracts in the British Museum' from being
included in his 'Memoirs of Libraries,' which appeared in 1859. George Thomason's glorious sum
of Royalist tracts will be put under the heading 'Pamphlets.'
[Sidenote: Classics.]
13.
Among all the elements of our list perhaps none contains greater beauty and printed with greater
uniqueness than--the Classics of the Old World. It is a rarity for the scholar to-day, The time
when no library was thought of as complete without most of the old masters of Greece and Italy
is long past; and there remains not the competition these days to
acquire the well-known volumes which would adorn the shelves of our
grandfathers. Just recently our book-hunter saw a sixteenth-century
folio Isocrates, bound in ancient green morocco, for seven and sixpence;
such is evident in a modern bookseller catalogue today. I'm
pretty sure that Napoleon was occupied at Beresina. He had his Ossian with him however. When
was thought lacking in power to jump behind action? At one point did man not remember to rush
like Tyrtaeus to battle, one hand holding a sword the other holding a lyre? Since the world still
carries its own body, it carries a soul.
Monsieur Charles Blanc writes: In order to gain a certain sense of how important the arts are,
it is sufficient to understand where the great world nations would stand if their monuments that
were set up to their faiths and their works that demonstrated their genius erased from history.
It accompanies people. After death, only their great emanations that they thought up will stay
with us, in other words, while the men die, their art, or literature,
poems, writen or inscribed, or any other achievements remain. 

Any suppressed inclination, vents itself more violently, when it gets an opportunity. Sometimes
the greatest grossness changes into the greatest refinement.It is a natural relief.The most
reserved and indifferent tempers at the beginning, turn out the most communicative and cordial at
the end of it. Some exhaust themselves at first while others gain strength by progression.
 He was given a lavish funeral in his home town-Declan's High Place-just as the angel
showed him, just as the angel had shown him many miraculous things. He left this earthly realm,
bound for Heaven to be with the Father, Son and Holy Spirit for eternity. Amen. The End.
This man, Michael O'Clery patterned his life after Declan in Cashel, a character in the book of
Eochy O'Herrerman written in 1582. An emulation carried out to its
end in the Convent of the Friars at Druiske on February 27, 1629. I need to look at what you've said more closely. Hopefully,
I can do away with anyone who would argue away the fact that you, sir, already are virtuous,
talented, and experienced. According
to the standard Japanese dictionary, Nankin-nedzumi is a variety of Mus spiciosus (Hatsuka-nedzumi),
and was brought in from China. They are reared in cages. This variety of mice have different
coat colors and make excellent pets for children who love to watch them dance about in their
cages. As far as my knowledge goes Mus speciosus is very similar to Mus musculus in most characteristic
including color and size. In fact, the similarity is so close that it would be difficult to distinguish
one species from the other.
In the Proceedings of the Zoological Scociety of London, 1807, Swinhoe gives a list of mammals
in China. He describes Mus musculus as commonly occurring in houses in China and Formosa. He
also mentions that Chinese liked to keep black and white varieties of mice brought in from
the Straits as pets.
According to Kishi, Mitsukuri and Hatai, and the observations made by several European scientists,
it seems very likely that this variety of mouse, the dancer as it is known, originated in China
and was later introduced into Japan. It was from Japan that the dancer was brought to Europe
and then to America. Once we accept this as the true course of events, it is necessary to ask
at which point the species could have developed this strange ‘dancing’ behavior. There is
considerable controversy of opinion on this.
Brehm quotes Haacke’s account in his “Terleben”. Haacke talked to an animal dealer about
the dancer to try and find where it could have come from. The dealer was positive that the
animal was originally from Peru where they lived in the cotton fields, making their nests in the cotton
capsules. They got into the habit of running around in circles inside the cotton capsule in
order to make themselves a comfortable nest. He said that sometimes this variety goes by the
name, ‘cotton mouse’. In spite of this account from the animal dealer, Haacke feels that
dancer originated either in China or Japan and acquired their curious
‘dancing’ habit through careful selective breeding.

However, he says that he cannot be positive about it because he was
unable to find any supporting documentation that describe ‘the beautiful
mice of China and Japan’.

I failed to track down any publication by Haacke on this subject before he was quoted by Brehm.
Zoth shares Haacke’s opinion that the dancer is the result of selective breeding by astute
Asiatic animal breeders. Another account of the origin of the dancer is the one advocated
Kishi and other Japanese biologists. I was
about my day in the horse-market when I spied a very good-looking horse, young and shapely,
and the asking price seemed unbelievably low, a mere a $18. Moreoever, it was going to go lower
at any moment. The weather was fine and warm for a fall October day. initiations
have been taken up for the country to decide for the age suggestions in other way "offense
for none "is done reasonably has been approved by the President.
 The attorneys
defending the accused in the chancery suit,declared that Roger Tichborn was actually Arthur Orton,the
youngest son of late George Orton,a butcher from high street,wapping.According to them Arthur
had visited his family consisting of 3 sisters and a brother to check on them as he had lost touch
with them for some years.His hush hush transactions with them were only a means to keep his
identity a secret.
Though his Mother went and stayed with him she was not convinced that he was not an imposter.So
she decided to leave Croydon and move to a hotel near Portman square.On 12th March 1868,she
was found dead in a chair by a servant with no one at her side.
Out of all the obscure details of the Claimant's history,only two statements carried some weight.one
being that he had been at Melipilla in Chile where he had known Thomas Castro,whose name he had
taken up later;and the other one being that in 1854 he had been employed as a herdsman by Mr.William
Foster of Boisedale,Gippsland,Australia.These statements would have been detrimental in proving
the identity he had tried to establish for himself as Robert Tichborne.plus he seemed to have enough
evidence and support for his stories.Maybe he thought that no one would bother to cross check
or summon witnesses as both the said places are far apart.But the defendent applied and got
the permission to go to these places to verify the facts even though the Claimant's side fought
against it.Further adjournment and delay of the case occured when the claimant also sought permission
to clear his name by accompanying the commission to Melipalli and
producing his friend Thomas Castro before them.So money was raised
and a party consisting of the claimant,solicitors,counsel and the
commission set sail for Valparaiso and Melipilla, and finally for
Victoria and New South Wales.However the Claimant went ashore at Rio
stating he would continue to Melipilla overland on his own.But he
never turned up and the commission had to go about collecting information
and examining witnesses on their own.The Claimant had gone back to
England after disembarking at Rio and abandoned the project.For his
weird behaviour he made many lame excuses which were so not in his
interest.

 "Look!" The French Mother said to her daughter's fiance, "Look! There is
my daughter. She hasn't even been alone with a young man for five minutes,-- needless to say with
you. Take her for your wife! It's monstrous! It's impossible!"

There were a few moments of silence as Dick looked blankly at the iron gates of the park of Fontonelles.
"Give me a cigar." He finally said.

Mr.Ribaud isntantly produced his cigar case and Dick took one. He waved aside the proffered match
and entered the cafe, taking a letter to Mrs.Fontonelles from his
pocket. He twisted it in a spiral and lit it with a candle before
lighting his cigar with it, watching as the ashes dropped to the floor.
 They are young and old, you can not mistake it. You won't stop horses
with decent blood, they run straight at you, with strong strides and finish quickly every time.
You might know it not, but they balk at nothing and set their teeth to it until they learn.

"Maybe that was not pounded home into me last autumn?"

"To us came a small woman, only ninety pounds I suppose, so delicate she wouldn't look right in
male clothing and she was close to middle age. By the set of her mouth, she proved that she'd
never run away before and her eyes were fiery with determination. She was eager to hunt,to take the
leaps and bounds, though all she knew of riding came from long walks along the town bridle paths
and her hands were too soft for the reins.

"It was Lory and Priest that gave her a chance. I turned about although I thought she'd break her tiny
neck and the devil would prove me right.

I took the lady everywhere and spared her nothing, rode with her across meadows and through the
woods, over streams, timber and walls, and she followed me like a child with her heart like
a prized thoroughbred. "Don't jump the fence!" Lory would sing out, "If you take a fall, just
toss your legs into the air and keep kicking to prove you are not dead. We don't want to stop
for anyone but the dead on this hunt!" She'd hit her riding crop on the quarters of her horse and
on we'd go!

"When we'd be close to a fence across which two men were climbing up from croppers, Lory would
call to her with: "Don't get scared at that smoke billowing across the fence; it's nothing but
the boys that couldn't get over burning up their chance at salvation!" And her little heels
would kick the iron sides of her horse and high over the timber she'd fly and my heart lifted for
the sheer joy of seeing her bravery.

"But it was not always to me she looked to." One day I saw her give a fall that you'd think
would crash the tiny woman into pieces. The horse landed so low into a ditch that he couldn't
recover and over his head she flew. When she hit the ground, it was to land into the hard ground
of the furrows that it looked as if she had dived into the earth like a wily fox into his hole.

"But
was she tired? Not at all! Up the lady sprang like a yearling filly and asks Lory if her hat
was still straight, which it was, and she got to her feet. "Oh damn your hat," replied Lory,
"Give me your foot and I'll help you mount if you are not scared. Why, next year you'll be
showing your friends all the holes in the ground on this hunt that you've dung with your own
head." And up it was for her again and away her cold-blood horse. By god, but those cold-bloods
make it a shame that they are not called hunters. While fall they may one day, but while the thoroughbred
goes down fighting and struggling for his feet and generally either wins out or gives his rider
time to fall if he must go, the cold-blood falls flabby and loose like an empty sack and he
allows his rider to hit the ground like the devil had kicked him off Durham Terrace. Ah, but she
had the heart of a thoroughbred, had Mrs. Bruner, and whether up on a cold or hot blood, along she'd
ride at anything those two dare-devil hare brains would point her at, spurs digging and her crop
smashing.

"Nor is all our fun of hunt days. Between times, the lads are always putting up games on each
other out the heart of mischief that won't let them go until the next hunt, each never quite
so happy as when he can get the best of a mate or a wager or a trade.

"One day, Little Raven and I galloped over to Lory's place.

"Whatever
devilment you and his wisdom are up to now?" said Lory to Raven, the
minute we came to his porch.

"No devilment at all," replied Raven,
"We want to help you."

"Give me a name," Lory said.

"Simple," replied
Raven, "The master's got a new whim, he's silly to mount the hunt
on black horses. I've old Sol here and Jack has a trio of black ones
for us whips, but where to get a black horse for Jack puzzles us.
We came over to see if you could help us with this."

"Lory was rocking
in his chair, looking out across his fields. I saw a gleam in his
eye and followed his glance to where I saw Lory's old black work-horse,
Molly. Sometimes Molly pulled the wagons, but it was usually the plough
for her. I'd heard Lory say she was eighteen years old and that once
she was black as night, but now she's grey as pot ash.

"How would
old gray Molly do for you, Raven?" Lory asked with a twinkle in his
eye. We have used our friend’s private communications to authenticate
these statements. We pray that they forgive us and acknowledge their work. The authors of this
discovery are Dr. C. T. Jackson and Dr. Morton. On the date of 24 November Dr. Warren writes
“In six cases, I have had it applied with satisfactory success, and no unpleasant sequel.”
On the date of 29 November Dr. Ware stated “It was brought into use by a dentist, and is
now, chiefly employed by that class of practitioners.
 Richard Linthicum and Trumbull White are the renowned
authors of many historical works and are well-known in American households, as well as world renowned
as descriptive writers.
The illustrations in this work are the result of many photographers, who captured every stage
of the earthquake - from the actual event to the relief effort. Father Prout himself would cower before "Mihi est propositum" or "Testamentum Goliae"
by Walter Mape. It is possible that the hymns spirit is caught much more easily. It is true
that Dr. Coles has demonstrated his knowledge of the worth of faithness.
 

She at one time notified the Sergeant of the innovation, and the effect
was we had our difficulty and work for nothing.

Captain Alban and myself were the only Yankee prisoners in the detention, and until our attainment
there had been no endeavour at elude, and to us consequently was attributed all of the tries
to smash out.

While the reb deserters were keen to share with us all the gains to be deduced from a smash,
they were too shiftless and slothful to entirely move into into our strategies for an escape.

CHAPTER
XX.

ANOTHER ATTEMPT AT ESCAPE DISCOVERED--A BOLD PLOT--LACK OF SAND IN THE REB DESERTERS--A BRAVE
NEGRO--THE FLOGGING.

Being gratified that I could get clear of the flooring at any time in a small number minutes, I advised
my person prisoners what I had said, and what I had observed wrapped up, and that when everything
had become silent, I would warranty to get them out with 10 minutes work. Some of the rebs
were not gratified, and implored upon relaxing the floor over at one time, and in spite of all
I could perform, they continued in performing so. The third after dark after was reconciled upon
as the one to move out, as it agreed to be dark and rainy, but just before after dark, the Sergeant
took it into his head to a go the floor, and procuring a long rod he went into the room under
and struck at the loose slabs, which straight away yielded, and then he fetched in another
carpenter, and in person superintended finishing up the aperture, which was wrapped up by spiking components
of joist, in resistance to the floor joists, fully completed finishing it up.

As I said, we had slice a opening through the partition, in order that we could convey with
our nearby occupants in the next room. We made up a conspire with
them to snatch the Sergeant when he came in at after dark to empty
their slop pail, shut up him in the room, take the keys and unlock
our entrance, and we would all move out at once. We had bribed one
of the guard to let us disarm him, and then we would be free to depart
out. When we got exterior we would find another guard, but with one
armament we could without difficulty overpower and disarm him, and
then hope to the two armaments and our agility to gain the woods,
which were close by. The
whole thing is an example of a deliberate-pathetic which Sterne's exceedingly usual art and
his extreme fake character do well. He is very unsuccessful when, after officially announcing,
that he means to be touching. He selects his subject, with organized character, favorable to group his
accessories, and with painfully apparent elaboration to work up his
scene to the point of dirge.

"Did we love each other as this poor soul loved his ass, 'twould be something.'"
 Cut off from the rule of France Maine has always strongly
asserted its superiority. Aside from the war of the Commune Maine's history as a separate state
has mostly consisted of tossing back and forth with is neighbors Normandy and Anjou. In conclusion
Maine has formed a single ecclesiastical diocese similar to one that would be found in a single
city. The “Gold Hair,” is just a picturesque lines, but does not withstand
those lines, It is weak and does not have a conclusion. The incident is made for sympathy,but
its moral is conventional one.”James Lee” is a series of small poems which is completely
beautiful and and it has beautiful lines.. We are not able to make a firm impression because
its vague and beauty. It tells us about a love story which usually exaggerates a nature which
common everywhere.We clings to its feelings and shrivels away."Under the Cliff" is the sixth
poem which ispresented in a finer way and the heart which is unsatisfied makes the wind to
be the interpreter of that hearts pain and dread.Like the dog that I found once, which is sad
in this solitary strand. which will not take my food and the poor hound. But the dog will whine and
lick my hand. I will not be understanding that they will be there to help me. The pathetic
feeling of the nun is interrupted in this poem. The artificial figure of the noun is also
seen here.”Beside the drawing board, we cannot understand or create anything from this piece.We
will have to like it alone unless we will have to detach it from the position in the series.Many
fine lines are here but does not have any poetic impression or real person is not present. The
"Bells and Pomegranates"was splendid and gave us a vivid shapes, and emotions so consistent and
sustained,though they were flawed by over –reflection.The dramatic or the lyrical quality
doesnot appear in this volume.I t has the chance of being scrapped
together ,The pen have delivered them with less tenacity than usual
and its purposes are less palpable in this volume.The charming and
interesting part is the “Confessions” and Youth and Art” and
“A Likeness”.

Mr .Sludge can be called the “rat-hole philosophy” and cannot
be called a poem.

It is not possible to write satire ,or cannot be specified as epic or not even elegy. The new
fetichism of Mahogany tables were styled by Mr.Emerson.It challenges the wit to transfix it
and asks the sense of beauty to incorporate it. Its not pathetic but humiliating. Its not grotesque,
but its gross flat and stale. It does not pretend that their first one vibrates to them through
a strangers mind. Its machinery is the rickety heirlooms of old humbugs of Greece and Alexandria.The
messages are fatuous.
Pegasus must not be saddled, but summon rather the police.This does not have any thrill,or
any terror and does not have the true awe and nothing.This has things that creep from the mediums
presence like goose flesh and disgust.
This composition is full of common sense,Mr Browning have undertaken this as a moment of high
indignation and motive of self relief.In the matters relating to the invisible world the people
will be deceived and its on this point that the vindication of career of Mr.Sludge’s turns
upon.He must be right otherwise the theologians will not be having a successful run.The imaginative
medium will be betrayed by the facile and eager “circle” while reporting what appears most
which we desire.
He gets excited by the superstition of the people and the crowd is against him which deluges him
with its expectation.He resents the scarcity of super natural things.Inorder to attain self
defence the people is forced to cheat themselves and when he takes his wits ,if it will mislead
only he will have a satisfaction.
Certain Yankee phases are pasted into Mr Mr. Sludge's talk, such as "stiffish cock-tail," "V-notes,"
"sniggering," allusions to "Greeley's newspaper," Beacon Street, etc.Characters are not present
in them. But shrewdness and good sense cannot make a poem
 Personally many and most
of the judges have great popularity.Popularity was so much that it could create complaint
of so many of them being selected to other offices.But as a matter of fact Bench has been the
subject of constant attack by every legislature.
 The writer Stowe, H.B., is most famous for her detailed and truthful descriptions of
her character's true nature. When she plans a story, however, she is not so accurate, taking
no steps to pace and measure her words and the actions of her players. In spite of the drawbacks
of her hurried and imperfect plots, the reader is glued to the story,
unable to put it down, and in the end her attempts are appreciated. There may be already the quivering from the ancient graves, and bizarre lights flicker on the
mighty gallstones consecrated by simply tradition to be able to incantations, not necessarily
of morbid fears, but from the strong along with beautiful inside nature.
For from the Utilitarianism, from the steam along with machinery connected with 'this grow older without
initiative, ' MY SPOUSE AND I see the 1st necessary step of a return to be able to real wants,
solid truth, and healthy laws. Its the first portion of the executing away along with rococo
sentimentalisms, mediæval tatters, and many wretched along with ragged remainders along with
reminders connected with states connected with society that have
nothing inside common along with our found needs.

And it'll be a revival, not from the ancient adoration connected with Nature like a mythology
plus a superstition, but like a heartfelt love off that will be beautiful, along with joyous,
along with healthy inside itself. Then the gods may indeed go back and survive again among us; not
because literal beings, however, but because blessings overall that is best for guy. Nor may
'Romance' become wanting--that influence which the age, with no defining, still declares is
vital to poems.
In Knowledge, in Humanity, and inside perfecting individual ties along with interests from the
influence connected with love, discover a romance which is exquisitely fascinating, and which
often lends once more to tenderer even more graceful dreams than Trouveur and also Minnesinger
connected with any grow older ever knew--dreams a lot more delightful all around health will not fade
away with the mists connected with morning, yet be content in clear sunlight, series by series,
before guy.
It seriously isn't difficult to be able to prove what Relating to here asserted of the tendency toward
the best in current literature along with art. Inside twenty, nay, within a decade, men connected
with genius include abandoned the Supernatural as well as the Gothic because affording in good
shape themes intended for creative efforts. That ill-fated creature the Ghost--especially the Ghost
inside Armor--as well for the reason that Historical and also Sensational personages who live
only from the superlative--are at this time in common demand simply by that will harmless course who
go through 'for amusement, ' and also they start to ungratefully concept their older friends.

It isn't difficult to be able to foresee that this Romance therefore dear to the last generation
will in the near future become the exclusive heritage from the vulgar.
Endure, genial sketches of clean, unaffected Characteristics, draughts from real life, are beginning
to become loved along with keen zeal.
What novels are therefore successful because those when the writer possesses truthfully mirrored
the coronary heart or the property?
What snap shots are therefore loved as those that set previous to us the best, or, relatively,
the Ideal in its true meaning--that from the perfected essence from the Real?
When that tendency should have quite placed man on the right road--when
we all shall include learned to be able to follow along with set forth
Nature as nancy, in heart and as mysterious, the excellent cherishing
mommy, ever young, ever wondrous, of many beauty along with all joy,
then we all may anticipate the third and greatest era connected with
human way of life.

Then we all may hope for a over Greek art--an paintings freed through every variety of oppression
along with injustice. To influence this have to, however, do what the initial founders connected
with poetry discover mythology managed: search Characteristics closely, bear constantly at heart
her one great rule of efficient Being, continually featuring itself overall things because life along
with death, mutually creating 1 another, and acting overall organic life from the mystery connected
with Love, After that, while establishing those affinities along with correspondences in between
natural things which constitute Poetry, let it be ever present to the mind that each is, so to
speak, always polarized with its positive conclusion of action, creation and also birth, along
with its negative of cessation, turn into and passing away.
It is from the constant realization of the solemn along with beautiful truth overall things
that will Nature eventually appears therefore strengthening along with cheerful.
The flower as well as the fruit, the joy of anticipation as well as the luxury connected with
realization, include the delightful culmination of the natural presence; and its to fantastic
these that action is likely.
Decay, condition, pain, along with death, are generally only i implore you to agencies performing
more effectually along with rapidly, to sweep away that which is fading, and speed it into new
sorts of beauty along with pleasure. 
'Nature inside her placid
breast is provided with All the girl creation; as well as the body
gives Itself the due connected with nature, along with its conclusion
Is self-consummated. '[A] 
[Footnote A: LUCAN, Pharsalia.] It would have been subjected to violence in Reign of Terror,
conflicting passions of the congregation, and weakness Director incoherent. For the first time since
the death of Louis XIV., Finds its history once more a center, and now revolves around one man.
For fifteen years, victorious or defeated, the summit of glory, or in the depths of relegation,
France and Europe, through overmastered will irreducible and unbridled passion for power, had
to waste their blood and treasure that Universal Home General Bonaparte history for its own
applications, and he was able to cover with glory and crime.
The next day, Brumaire 18, the uncertainty of the parties, before a constitution audaciously
violated, and a provisional government, mainly, the nation was more than happy receptive or alarmed.
She caught a glimpse of the physical power and genius as a free ascent
to which people voluntarily quit, with the confidence that the bitter
lies were never able to extinguish.

Hot and honest Republicans, less and less numerous, they felt captured
first by a sure instinct was not misled by their opponents protest.

They have bent before a new power, which did not give their old hatred which they believed to be somehow
created their own hands, and dared not yet measured. Mass of the population, even France, welcomed
with joy and hope of an administration order regular and strong. They were not prejudiced in favor
of philosophical constitution, promulgated long Sieyes. In the eyes of the nation, the government
has been concentrated in the hands of General Bonaparte, he was confident that all were to
rest at home and peace abroad glory.
In fact, he was already driving, regardless of extended discussion by two legislative committees
and the development of deep draft Sieyes, set by M. Boulay. Before the Constitution of Year
VIII, received the sanction of his will dominate, he abrogated the law of hostages, recalled
prohibited priests from the Isle of Oleron, and the Sinnamari carried most of the 18 Fructidor.
He reformed ministry, and distributed by army chief orders his pleasure.
 No matter how tired we were and regardless
of how well or unwell Mrs Sweedle appeared to be, it was possible to catch up on the work during
the night. If we managed to grab Tom and Bobby and Albert they were bathed and spruced up at
night so as to save us all time in the busy morning period.
 "I speak German
so well that I could teach it."
"You're such the talker!" said the painter. "Don't worry, you'll still be married."
It was quiet for a few moments. Then Kitty said, "I'm twenty-four years old".
"Over on this side of the grave, it is not safe for you," said FrAulein
Vogel. 
"Even though I'm married, I doubt it," Kitty continued.
"I..", and before she could finish, she fell to the floor, crying
hysterically. His
strong individuality, a trait, whether attractive or repulsive, is brought out in even stronger
relief in this volume than the last. This volume is full of interest, and worthy of study and
full of suggestions. Its high energy seemed to creat demands for it to satisfy at the expense of
itself. Failure only made it more persistent as well as success. It was unchillably vivacious,
almost boisterous. Its strenuousness knew no lassitude, and had no need for repose. At play as
well as at work, in excercise as well as mental labor, in all projects purposes, and performances,
Dickens has shown a perpetual state of tension which left no room
for reaction. Nightingale was
singing a song about sweet home, looking at Hewlett while he was wearing clothes in shyness.
He sang that though we may wander around in happiness and joy even if we are at great Palaces,
Home is the best and sweet simple place to be happy and joy.
NARRATION OF A SCENE
Patrick Champion had noble charectors inheritted from his family. He was the younger brother of
George and also my friend. Patrick wanted to pick up a fight for leagal justice whenever such
scenes occured in front of his eyes. He was ready to fight with boys of even big size and strength
as he wanted to establish his power. He was a late arrival to the school. He would have picked
up a quarell during foodball and there were incidents that he had thrashed down many youths
like this. So this Prince always wanted to be above the fighting standard of his brother, George.
He involved instantly even at small matters of disparities without thinking of the consequences,
but he could have involved only in matters of great distress and foreseen big danger.
It so happened one day, while I was shaving and watching through the window, I saw Fogle grabbing
a top belonging to Snivins and trying to pick up a fight in between.

Many a occassions, Snivins, mischieviously had played on my toes by pegging with his top. But I
never took it seriously. Our young Champion appeared on the scene and got ready by pulling off
his coat sleves and geared up on action. In embarressment, Fogle said that they didn't invite
him to the situation and threw down the top to young Snivins. The young champion was spellbound
and still as he could not get an opportunity to proceed further on his action.

HONOURS INHERITED
Plantagenet Gaunt Gaunt was the son of Lord George Gaunt. So Plantagenet Gaunt Gaunt was also
the nephew of the Most Honorable the Marquis of Steyne. Thereby he inherited the noble place as the
Earl of Gaunt.
The number of eminent noble persons at Brich's were very few. So the heir of a Great Prince was staying
with Doctors for few years and they were very happy with his stay with them. The Doctor had
many occassions to spend with strangers and during their dicussions, Lord Steyne would become the
final topic of subjects.
However in the Last Garden Party they had at Gaunt House, they were praising the future Marquis
of Steyne and Earl of Gaunt as they are bonofied due to his stay with them.
Plantagenet was not interested in this sort of conversations and the inheritted glorious position
in future. But he was content with some brown sugar on bread-and-butter. His time was spent by playing
coach-and-horse by sitting with three chairs in a quiet place, silently.
He used to pay an occassional grim at the stangers or sometime walk
up and down simply. Happiness was visible in him. He was stopped from
taking him to church as he used to behave unwanted manner at odd places
and he was left alone at home were he used to play by hiself cat's-craddle.
He used to enjoy his time like that. God
knows, I have my best to succeed at work, but like all other positions we held. Somehow or other
I seem to be able to provide satisfaction. While I'm on my guard, and as alert as I know how to be
against one of the things I was not told to do, I'm just as sure as the sun to go and do some
things, others that it is against the rules. If you do something against the rules, then I
forgot to do something I was told to do.

If I remember to do something I was told to do, then I am quite likely to make a mistake strange
that nobody ever thought of framing a rule to match. The result is that in almost every other
week or at most two, will be out of jobs again. I tried driving a delivery wagon. I tried food stores.
I tried doing collections. I started once as a bank official. Immediately after leaving college,
I started as a newspaper reporter. I was a newsboy on the railroad trains. I sold candy and nuts
in a fair ground. I was in a hotel night clerk. I was a steward Steamboat. I was a shipping clerk at
a publishing house, and I was fired from every job I ever had. True enough, I hated them all,
but nevertheless, I tried to do my best in them. Why can not succeed with any of them do not
know, yet I have a feeling that somehow, somewhere, sometime, I will find something to do that
I'll love and can do well. "
"Music", I said, "undoubtedly the music."
"Do you think I could?" He said thoughtfully. "Music was my passion all my life long been my
joy, my consolation in all my wanderings and all my failures .. But I was always afraid I would
fail also, in that, and if I , it would break my heart for sure,
but if you think you have talent., then I give all my time, my whole
thought, my energy, all the music continue. " Anna Deming Gray from Topeka is a writer who writes
negro dialect stories, stories for children, and some verse. Elizabeth Barr Arthur, is an author
of a number of books, histories of several Kansas counties and some volumes of poems, "Washburn
Ballads." Mrs. Sarah E. Roby is a both prose and verse writer.
A granddaughter, Marjory Roby, is an author number of stories and plays. Eva Bland Black gives
poems and song lyrics to the magazines. She served as an apprentice both as reporter and city
editor of the Journal and Evening News of Garnett. She also served as associate editor of the Concordia
"Magnet." Mrs. Isabel McArthur is a natural writer of poet and song.
She has published "Every Body Loves a Lover", a verse. Her last song, "When The Bloom Is On
The Cherry At Sardou" has gained much popularity and sung widely. Edna E. Haywood wrote "Fifty
Common Birds Around the Capital."
Mrs. Mary A. Cornelius has written four books, "Little Wolf," "Uncle Nathan's Farm," "The White
Flame," and "Why? A Kansas Girl's Query" when she was a resident of Topeka. Another book will be
published soon. Mrs. Mary Worrall Hudson, wife of the late General J. K. Hudson,is a former
editor of the Topeka Capital. She is the author of "Two Little Maids And Their Friends," "Esther,
The Gentile," and many famous short stories and poems. Her classic prose-poem: "In The Missouri Woods"
is widely known as her masterpiece. Mrs. Sara Josephine Albright, formerly of Topeka and now
of Leavenworth, is a really good singer of childlife. Her volume of verse, "With The Children"
is a combination of both lullabies and mother-love poems. She is working on a book of stories
for children and will be on market soon.
Jessie Lewellyn Call is deceased but was the clever and beautiful daughter of the first Populist
governor of Kansas, was a popular essayist and short story writer.

For many years she served as one of the editors of the Chicago Inter-Ocean.
Dorothy Canfield Fisher who is a writer of both fiction and text-books and many short stories
of different kind is claimed by Lawrence. She wrote "Corneille And Racine In England," "English
Rhetoric And Composition," "What Shall We Do Now," "Gunhild," "The Squirrel Cage" and "The
Montessori Mother." Louise C. Don Carlos is the author of "A Battle In The Smoke" considered
as one of the best Kansas works on fiction. She did appreciable work on the Nashville Tennessee
Banner and is very active in magazine verse.
Mrs. Anna W. Arnett is a Lawrence teacher. She writes verse and songs. She has also issued a
primer, the Kansas text-book and a primary reading chart for which she has been given a United
States patent. Margaret Lynn, one of the faculty of Kansas University, writes short stories
and is the writer of the famous "A Step-Daughter Of The Prairies."
Mrs. A. B. Butler, who lives in Manhattan, wrote "The Trial And Condemnation of Jesus Christ
From a Lawyer's Point of View;" a novel, "Ad Astra Per Aspera;" and also has many newspaper
works in basket. Mrs. Elizabeth Champney was a teacher in the Kansas State Agricultural College.
But now she is the author of more than twenty books and many short
stories such as "Three Vassar Girls Abroad," "Witch Winnie Series,"
"Dames And Daughters of Colonial Days," "Romance of French Abbeys,"
"Romance of Italian Villas," and "Romance of Imperial Rome."

Sadie E. Lewis who resides in Hutchinson, has written "Hard Times
In Kansas" and other well-known verses.

Her daughter, Ida Margaret Glazier, is also a famous poet and song writer. Mrs Alice McAllily has
written "Terra-Cotta" and many books which are famous among people.
Lillian W. Hale from Kansas City wrote verses, short stories, and a novel. Another novel is
about to be published this autumn.
Lois Oldham Henrici is a one-time Sabetha and Parsons woman. She has short stories like "Representative
Women" in her basket now.
Laura D. Congdon, who is a Newton pioneer, wrote many verses and short stories. Mary H. Finn,
from Sedgwick, is a writer of beautiful verse and much prose. Jennie C. Graves, who resides
in Pittsburg, has written many poems and moving picture plays. Mrs. Johannas Bennett, another
woman from Pittsburg, is the author of an historical novel, "La Belle San Antone." Florence L.
Snow, from Neosho Falls, is considered as an artistic and finished
writer of verse and prose. She worte her way, which
was much the same as how she lived her life, not like the others. The words came in machine-gun
bursts, hypper, vicious as if racing against the devil himself. She set pen to paper and it
just went, powered not by her brain, but by her heart. To read even a single sentence meant
not only to understand the miracle of her, but to understand that there are no rules to this, that there
is no "right" way to express one's self passionately, there is only, "do" or "do not".
 This is how things stand at the Abbey, but I can not see how this picture
significant is connected with Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk. I pause for the clarification.

Beppo.
* * * * *
THE PROOF OF WOMEN.
(The Mirror).
True love has no reservations - Lansdowne.
It is an achievement in the mind of a charming woman, not one that adds more dignity and grace
of his person, of constancy. Whichever part of the beauty that can be possessed of, if she can have
the hue of Hebe on the cheeks, competing in the color of Damask rose, fragrant as the breath
- and the gait of a gracious and elegant Ariel - yet, unless it is equipped with this characteristic
of a virtuous mind and naive, all her personal charms fade, negligence, like rotting fruit
in the fall. The full list of women's values on gender are essential to the happiness of man,
but there is so much beauty and grandeur of the sentiments displayed in the exercise of constancy,
which has been justly appreciated by the dramatic poets as the chief the excellence of her heroines.
It nerves the arm of the warrior in his absence from the beloved object of his devoted attachment,
when he reflects that his confidence in their relationship was not misplaced, but nevertheless,
amid the perils of his profession, longs for his home in domestic happiness, where the breath
of slander never entered, and where cunning and lustful seducer, if he dared to set foot, retreated
with shame and horror, like Satan, when he first saw the innocence
and primitive harmony between Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden.
It adds a taste of the hardships of the peasants, and his heart swells
with joy and gratitude to his return at night to his country house
mantle of ivy, and finds his wife regularly participate in household
tasks of family. And calm the mind of the crazy during the lucid intervals
of aberration of intellect, and tends more than anything to return
to reason. In fact, no calamity that is inherent in man, but the constancy
 So the pansy world or the huge world,
or th wood full of nanus and jinxs' homes, is as true to them, and as believable, as any slice
of life. It is their identification of a world of ghosts which after some time blends with itself with
the religious life of faith
 Normally writers are set of different people who differs and show difference
in their works. Especially many of the great poets like Otto Ludwig and Heinrich von Kleist
took in night wandering and moon walking. One will conclude what profound interest these men
had when they realize how they have first introduced these dark problems
into other traditional material which is realistic in nature to read. The girl cried out, she attempted to scream but she was exhausted and her aching throat
could barely produce a sound. Her hopes dwindled as a horse and rider rode past without hearing
her desperate cry. Unexpectedly, the travelers' path began shifting back in her direction and after
a few moments they were close enough for all of the girls to attract their attention.
 We can nor comprehend the pertience of our contributor's disquistion on the great
question of free will and necessity, as applicable to our ideas of the relations that exists
between mind and the matter.ie."SPIRIT ACTS INDEPENDENTLY OF GOD"!!!!!!!!!!! WE MIGHT WELL QUESTIONED
THE TRUTH of this assertion;but we may equally well admitted it,so far as any inference may
be drawn against it.this is not the query whether the soul of man is compelled to action according
to the law of its creation.this is not point of disagreement;for we have expresses no opinion over
this subject,nor upon anyother which involves in it. Macintosh was known as the "First Captain-General
of Liberty Tree." He was in charge of jobs such as the illuminations
and the hanging of effigies. Years later he said, "It was my chickens
that did the job" when speaking of the tea party. 

I know I'm going to die for this. The Queen has turned against me. My property and all my possessions
will surely be confiscated. There's no going back now.
 Lady Isabel could see that
in the distributing of the spoils that Mrs.Cotton could perhaps have a legal comlaint, however,
after twenty five years she could not fathom the consoling soul Mrs. Cotton had towards the wrongs
that her Church had to bear.
"Not a single cent more! Lady Isabel, Yes Indeed!And when I sent Mr. Cotton to complain about
the situation, Dr. Managan said to him that it was far better than a jab in the eye with a
blunt stick! That was his way of creating a joke of it! And that the Hunt desired it far greater
than us! I question how much Father Green left to the Hunt!" 
Mrs.
Cotton's piercing eyes snapped again, repeatedly,in a fashion that
was not to be enjoyed. A child will always play a game for all its worth. He will try his
best to be a good shopkeeper conductor, or banker.
Chapter XXIV
Experiences by means of doing
In Nursery School, activity is the chief characteristic. One typical form is experimenting with
tools and materials, like chalk, paints, scissors, paper, clay, and sand. The need to experiment
and change materials in some way, the need to gratify the muscular senses may be stronger
than the desire to build.
The play in Nursery School is often by means of imitation and experiment, and direct help is
usually quite unwelcome to a child under six. There is little to be said of direction but,
"Provide suitable material, give freedom, and help, if the child wants it." But, this is different
in the transitional stage. Children learn to think by doing. They have a natural inclination to do: they
try, do wrong, consider, examine, observe, and do it again. Take for example a girl who wants to make
a doll's bonnet like a baby's. She impulsively cuts materials, making it to small, then examines
the original bonnet, and makes another attempt. She stumbles upon the truth, and is able to
relate one form to another. A boy might paint a Christmas card, and copying holly-berries he might
notice the beauty of color. Purposeless observation would not have stirred this appreciation
in him.
Doing and thinking are inextricably linked. In the eary stages of development, the way to know
and feel is often through action: thus the maxim that handwork is
a method. 
This idea is often not truly considered, and this has
led to a trivial application; A nature lesson of the "look and say"
description is followed by a painting lesson; or a geography lesson
by making a model. After
that, as he was obeying her, she spontaneously knelt beside him and began unlacing his boots
before he knew what was going on. Larry protested.
Tishy told him to stay seated and behave, as she held onto the boot and jerked his foot to emphasize
her point. "I always do what I want."
Nothing Larry said worked. She nimbly did what she'd set out to do. Once
we saw a few young blind girls who were being rescued by Christians. They were being saved from
an awful fate, that unfortunately thousands of their peers will suffer who were born into
such terrible circumstances

. 

The steep banks on either side of the hill make all hopes of escape
diminish.

My capture would have been inevitable because of these hills.

Luckily, I was not two minutes earlier and they were not later because we would have then met
as I was descending the hill. We shoud no be incorrect in dating them 1493.5. Carpaccio's
influence is known, as we have noticed, and through this channel Girogione's art connects
with the more antiquated style of Gentile Bellini, Giovanni's elder brother. He is united
the quattrocentist tradition and the newer ideals of cinquecento, which found its earliest expression
in Giambellini's Allegories around 1486-90. The sincerely poetic style in this work strongly
appealed to Giorgione's ultra sensitive nature, and we have found him developing this version
of his art in the Beaumont "Adoration," and the National Gallery "Epiphany," both of which are
his first pieces. But there is a big difference in years between the Uffizi pictures and the
London ones, for the latter are much more mordern in every way, and it is well known that the time
in between must have been spent in constant training.  Yet we cannot be sure that any of the other
pictures in our list as standing partway in development, and here it is that a coffer exists
in the artist's career. 2 or 3 years, possibly more, remaincompletely unknown, just at a period,
too, when the young artist would be most impressionable. I believe that he may have painted
the "Birth of Paris" during these years, but we only have a small piece of the original composition
to go by, and the words of the Anonimo that the picture was one of Giorgione's earliest pieces.
 Here there is one head adversity in the way, viz.: that there
are so numerous products which will not be split up without initating a diminution or even a decimation
of their value; and that other ones will not be retained away in any amount without evolving a very
hefty burthen to their owner. How helpful it would thus be, if there was one product which should
be agreeable to every individual, at all times, particularly if in supplement to this, it owned the
features of durability, capability for transport and for being retained up and preserved.
Any individual who owned a correct provide of this one product would then be certain of being adept
to get all other exchangeable products through its instrumentality; and every trader would
be persuaded to exchange what he had to dispose of contrary to this “universal commodity.”
If two standards are identical to a third, they are identical to each other. It is, thus, a straightforward
issue to use this most present of all products, with which all other ones are most often in evaluation,
as a assess of the relation standards of all other exchangeable commodities. There is require
of such a assess, and it is analogous to the desire skilled by the mathematician who has a pillar
of parts to addition up, and who does it by first decreasing them all to a widespread denominator.
(Storch.)(688) A individual entrusted with the obligation of considering the standards of two
century distinct items would be obliged, if he had no such assess to use, to burthen his recollection
with not less than 19,900(689) distinct ratios. With it, he require convey only 199 in his head.
Such a product, unanimously in favor, and which, on that account, is engaged as an intermediary
in the effecting of swaps of the most diverse environment, in the assessing of all exchange-values
and as a value-carrier (Werthträger) in time(690)(691) and space, we call money. (Merce universale:
Berri; produit préféré: Ganilh; marchandise intermédiare; Bastiat.)(692)

The more enlightened portions of every enterprise community step-by-step arrive to need fee
in the product which has for the time being the utmost circulating capacity. If to this be
supplemented the restriction of the government, and if the government itself identifies this
identical “universal commodity” as the entails of fee of all liabilities, or as “legal tender”
(puissance libératoire), where no other is expressly acquiesced upon, the “universal commodity”
in inquiry then becomes cash in the fullest sense of the concept expressed by the word.(693)

Section
CXVII.

Effect Of The Introduction Of Money.

By the introduction of cash, most swaps are split up into two halves: buy and sale.(694) We may
furthermore state with Schlözer, that by its entails, exchange, for the first time, becomes
a sale, and obscure worth in exchange, clear and decisive price. (Permatio vicina emtioni). Were
there no cash, the party to an exchange, occupying the most advantageous financial place, would
own a much larger superiority over the other than he does now. Many a bread-buyer, particularly,
would be half starved before he could acquiesce with the trader on the amount of baked bread
to be obtained in exchange for the product he had to dispose of. The manufacturer of the entails
of subsistence would here own an farthest benefit, since the pressing necessity of the exchange
for the one party, and the power of the other to postpone it, would make the conclusion of the
cost an solely random matter.(695) Hence, the development of cash as the equipment of trade,
holds stride with the development of one-by-one liberty. Payment of salaries in cash makes the workman
more to blame for his husbandry etc., but at the identical time, freer, than fee in produce.
Now, furthermore, a higher partition of work becomes possible; for the simpler it is to get everything
additional for cash, the simpler it is for each individual to dedicate himself solely to one
agency of business.(696) Without cash, too, only prepared products could be swapped one contrary
to another. Only when cash has become the equipment of trade, is it likely to distinct the
snare from the whole comes back, and, thus, to organise earnings properly. (Schäffle). Now,
furthermore, it becomes for the first time actually remunerative to make more than one desires
for his own use, and to save. Without cash, the proprietor of any one kind of capital, who could
not provide work it himself, would be obliged, if he yearned to lend it, to find not only a individual
who was in require of capital, but one who required the very kind of capital he had. For example,
the individual who had one equine too numerous, would be obliged to gaze for another who was
in require of one etc. And how tough a task it would be to work out
the allowance of concern, if it had to be paid in make or kind, and
even to make a come back in make or kind of capital which had been
most likely used. I wаs sure nоw thаt the hоrrible оld thing hаd knоwn whаt
wоuld hаppen, hаd wаnted it tо hаppen, аnd hаd gоne hоbbling аwаy tо fetch her wicked
gipsy sоns. Hоw she hаd lооked аt my pооr little purse! Hоw she hаd lооked аt Pаmelа's
wаtch!
I sаw nоw hоw it wаs thаt I hаd been sо stupid. The dim light frоm аbоve hаd lаin
оn the lаst step аnd mаde it аppeаr аs if the flооr were
neаr; but there wаs а gаp between the stаirwаy аnd the bоttоm
оf the cellаr. The lоwer steps hаd been hewn аwаy--perhаps
in а quest fоr the ever-elusive treаsure.

Mаybe а crаck hаd аppeаred, аnd peоple, аlwаys seаrching, hаd suspected а secret оpening
аnd tried tо find it. аnywаy, there wаs the gаp, аnd there wаs а rоugh pile оf
brоken stоne nоt fаr оff, which hаd оnce been the end оf the rоcky stаirwаy. It wаs
lucky thаt I hаdn't struck my fоreheаd аgаinst it in fаlling--the оnly bit оf luck which
the fоrtune-teller hаd brоught me!
аs it wаs, I wаs nоt seriоusly hurt. Perhаps I hаd tоrn my dress, аnd I shоuld certаinly
hаve tо buy а new pаir оf glоves, whether I cоuld аffоrd them оr nоt; оtherwise
I didn't think I shоuld suffer, except fоr а few blаck-аnd-blue pаtches. But hоw wаs
I tо get оut оf this dаrk hоle? Thаt wаs the questiоn. I wаs tоо hоt with аnger
аgаinst the sly оld fоx оf а wоmаn, whо hаd pretended thаt she wаnted tо sаy her
prаyers, tо feel the chill оf feаr; but I cоuldn't help understаnding thаt she hаd gоt me
intо this trаp with the оbject оf аnnexing my wаtch аnd purse оr аnything else оf vаlue.
Perhаps the gipsy sоns wоuld rоb me first, аnd then murder me, rаther thаn I shоuld
live tо tell; but if they meаnt tо dо thаt they wоuld hаve tо cоme аnd be аt it sооn,
оr I shоuld be missed аnd sоught.
This lаst fаncy reаlly did turn me cоld, аnd the nice hоt аnger which hаd kept me wаrm
begаn tо ооze оut аt my fingers аnd tоes. I thоught оf my brаve new brоther, whо
wоuld fight ten gipsy men tо sаve me if he оnly knew; аnd then I wаnted tо cry.
But thаt wоuld be the silliest thing I cоuld dо. Sооn they wоuld begin tо lооk fоr
me (оh, hоw furiоus Lаdy Turnоur wоuld be thаt I shоuld dаre keep her wаiting, аnd
аt the fuss аbоut а servаnt!) аnd if I screаmed аt the tоp оf my vоice mаybe sоme
оne wоuld heаr.
I tооk а lоng breаth, аnd gаve vent tо а blооd-curdling shriek which wоuld hаve mаde
the fоrtune оf аn аctress оn the stаge. оdd! I cоuldn't help thinking оf thаt аt
the time. оne thinks оf queer things аt the mоst inаpprоpriаte
mоments. 

Near the end of 1769, Junius sent a celebrated letter to the King because the publications that
criminal information were published about Woodfall, Almon, and Miller, who reprinted the slander.
The "Rex v. Almon" case was the first one brought to trial, which the jury ended up with a "guilty"
verdict. The defense that was used against Woodfall was that the letter to the King wasn't slanderous.
Lord Mansfield's position on the situation is very well known. The wharfinger, as expected, was completely off his guard by
the ingenuity and cunning thief, and gave them to him.  On April 3, two Jews, and Gaspar Lewis
Ellis, father and son, were bred in Lambeth Street Police Station to be involved in the robbery,
then two other prisoners, Emanuel Moses and his daughter, Alice Abrahams, were arrested, and
all were committed for trial, the Caspars for stealing the gold, the other two for the receipt
of the criminal himself, and knowing it is stolen. They were tried at the Central Criminal
Court on 24 June, the trial that lasted eight days. The jury found guilty at all, but recommended
to the mercy of Alice Abrahams, believing that she acted under the advice and influence of his father.
Judgement did not rule on the matter until Feb. 3, 1840, when the three prisoners were sentenced
to fourteen years transportation, and women to work four months hard labor. The Jewish community
tried all his influence to get these sentences modified, but the pirates sailed for Sydney
in October next. The costs of the prosecution in relation to the trial amounted to £ 2,900!  
CHAPTER
IX.
Times, 25 Ap .- "Workers employed for some time to tear down an old house adjoining public
Church St. Dunstan, Fleet Street, discovered in the cellars of the old stone statue of Queen
Elizabeth, before the ship was in the old church. The parish authorities have decided on the
far east of the church, in front of Fleet Street. " An unfortunate position for many commodities,
Irish illiterate, or women have been confused due to their environment, to be a statue of the
Virgin Mary, and have devoutly crossed themselves and said that his "Birds."
At this time there was a political complication with great potential for gossip, and showed that
it was time for the Queen was released from his female followers, and with the advice of the
protection of a husband. In the May 7, Lord Melbourne, after being beaten by a small majority,
the bill on the suspension of the Constitution of Jamaica, resigned, and Sir Robert Peel was commissioned
by the Queen to form a new Ministry. He did, but for valid reasons, the waiver is required
as it was, and is, always, the ladies of the house. In order that there will be no bias on this
divergence of opinion between the king and his minister, I quote a part of speech of Sir Robert
Peel in the House of Commons on 13 May, taking him by the authorized version of Hansard. Sir
Robert said there was only a matter of discord between him and His Majesty.
"The difficulty arose with respect to certain portions of the establishment which is filled by the ladies
of the house. Sir, I think is infinitely better, at this point, that of the difficulty that arose,
I think it's infinitely better after of mature consideration, which should not come in the
first instance at least, not unless they are invited by the noble Lord (John Russell), in any
statement of any of the prints in my own mind about what happened,
but that must refer exclusively to the letters that passed over the
issue, because if I go to another, hence, the impressions of my own,
I have details of verbal communication happened when two parties only
were present, and I was one of parties, being alone in this House
to provide explanations of what happened.

 t appears to be difficult to get
the tungsten to alloy, and it has to be added to allotment of the chestnut as phosphide of tungsten,
in appreciably greater abundance than is assuredly required. The nickel is added to allotment
of the chestnut and the phosphide of tungsten, again the zinc, and again the blow of the copper.
The admixture requires to be remelted several times, and a acceptable accord of tungsten is absent by
oxidation.
The admixture is of a accomplished white colour, and is actual little afflicted by air--in fact,
it is to some admeasurement untarnishable. The specific attrition will be apparent to be about one
and a bisected times greater than that of German silver, and the temperature accessory is about
0.021 per cent per amount C. (i.e. about nineteen times beneath than
copper, and bisected that of German silver).

To all intents and purposes it may be admired as German argent with 1 per cent to 2 per cent
of tungsten. It does not arise to accept been decidedly advised for civil changes of resistance.

118. German Silver. This actual has been absolutely advised of backward years by Klemencic
and by Feussner and St. Lindeck. Everybody agrees that German silver, as commonly acclimated
for resistances, and composed of chestnut four parts, zinc two parts, nickel one part, is actual
ill-fitted for the purpose of authoritative attrition standards. This is due (1) to its experiencing
a ample access in attrition on winding. Feussner and St. Lindeck begin an access of 1 per cent
if German argent was anguish on a amount of ten wire diameters.
(2) To the actuality that the change goes on, admitting with gradually abbreviating rate, for months
or years; 
(3) to the actuality that the attrition is assuredly
afflicted (increased) by heating to 40В° C. or over. Margaret would be worried, had itself come to classes since
they, as for Helen, who should be viewed with an eye to shroud her blood, she was sure no
harm could happen while Frederick was restrained. So she enjoyed herself when things look
as cheerful as possible when everyone should come home.
But first, there were no coal. Helen has got a pain in the past they take very fingers. However, she
put a bright face on it, and, after threatening to set fire to the house and run by its light,
decided it would be better to set fire to it and stay and be heated it, while Margaret said that
would not know how lucky he was again made up of ash soap. All this, however, put anything in
the coal-bin.
Yesterday, Helen has received five U.S. dollars to transfer a piece of embroidery on a rich
knowledge. She hesitated about accepting it, it was the first ever Fotherington salaries -
Margaret's salary was paid, but conscience put down pride, and she gave thanks, and shut the bag
- and they probably broke the spell . In such a household would have thought there would of
course be no problem what to do with it. Rather, it was a serious matter. Tommy should have a hat and
Sarah a neighborhood? mother should have a scarf? would be to buy a quarter ton of coal? And there
was high school! Now, the city where they lived, not to attend school was not to be in society
last winter failed to conduct a season-ticket and the girls went alternately in the company
of a neighbor, this winter was Frederick at home, and two tickets were desirable.
 legitimised in infancy by an
imperial diploma, Antonio was near a courtier and politician from his cradle.
"Being of a straightaway understanding, an adumbrating character, and a devotedness which recognised
neither bounds nor scruples, full of expedients, a nervous and elegant writer, and timesaving
in business, he had gained the privilege of Philip 2., who had bit by bit inclining him well-nigh
his full confidence. He was, with Cayas, one of the two secretaries of the council of state,
and was shot primarily with the despacho universal; that is, with the counter-sign and the conduct
of the diplomatic correspondence and the purple commands. Philip bestowed to him his most sneaky
designs, initiated him into his separate thoughts; and it was Perez who, in deciphering the
despatches, classed the channelizes to be communicated to the council of state for their opinion,
from those which the king reserved for his exclusive deliberation.
such high up favour had jubilant him.

He chanced upon even towards the Duke of Alva, when they took on in the king's apartments at
dinner, a silence and a haughtiness which revealed at once the arrogance of enmity and the infatuation
of fortune. So trivial moderation in prosperity, twinned with the most luxurious habits, a passion
for betting on, a craving appetite for pleasures, and exuberant expenses, which deoxidized him to
receive from every hand, excited against him both begrudge and animosity in the hard-and-fast
and factious court of Philip II.; and, on the first opportunity, inescapably groomed his downfal.
This event, overly, he himself rushed along by serving too well the distrustful passions of
Philip, and, maybe, even by winding up them beyond mensurate against two men of his own party,
Don Juan of Austria and his secretary Escovedo."
It is out of the question to conceive of that the character of Philip was not fathomed by Perez.
The jeopardise of his lay, as the depositary of the inmost secrets of the king, could not have
escaped his knifelike mind. The treachery of his every day services, to which, in the words we have quoted,
allusion is created, must have perpetually prompted him how probably he was making for himself the ruin
which before his own eyeballs had struck and destroyed more than one of his predecessors.
At the same time, the bent of his disposition carried him promptly enough into intrigue, deceit, and
cool remorseless villany. He was not slowed by any scruple, or abashed by any principle. But he
did not lack sagacity. The power which he fucked and ill-treated was acquired and restrained easily,
because the exercise of his talents had always been quite in harmony with the natural flexion of his
bear in mind. In the take of public affairs, Philip never had a minister who more dexterously
conformed argues and fulfills of policy to the will, or prejudices, or passions of the sovereign.
All the extravagance, and even towards so ineffable an enemy as Alva, all the insolence of Perez,
could hardly have shaken his security. From what he acknowledged, and what he had done, Philip,
it is true, may at any moment be tempted to work his downfal, if not his death; but, in consequence
of that very knowledge and his very deeds, the value of so much an adviser and such as a tool
was nigh sure to protract and avoid his doom. The disgrace and misfortune, therefore, of Perez, how shut
in afterwards in the mantle of political delinquency, are to be traced to more strictly personal
has. It is a peculiar, interesting, and horrible story.
The memorable shin of the Netherlands against the domination of Spain was at its height. The breaks
open aggravated by the ferocity of Alva had not been extinguished by his milder but far less able-bodied
successor, the Grand Commander Requesens, who settled under the harassing pressure of the difficulties
which encompassed him. abreast of his death, the Spanish knock, alive to the big goes forth of the
contest, invoked the services of one of the most celebrated men of the get on.
 Carthach, also known as Mochuda, is a famous bishop from North Kerry
belonging to the clan of Fergus Mac Roigh.
This well-known man came from the line of the Ulster king who gave
up his throne to a woman for one year but never got it back after
the year was finished, so now his descendents are scattered throughout
Ireland.

 "Thanks Be to God," is a term very commonly heard. An Indian cheif of the
neighborhood Surgert, came to the formal founding of this term on Sunday September 25th. Once
the cheif was assured by priests and soilers that no hard should come to his people or him
by the noise of exploding gunpowder, he proclaimed, "Thanks be to God!"
 Actually, I saw lots of little things. They
didn't mean much individually, but when I thought about them as a group, they seemed more important.

Sometimes I wonder what might have been. I went to sea, I met Jamie, I brought him home. What might
have been, if I had not done those things? Things might be very different now. In fact, they would
be very different, I am sure. However, there's not much point in reflecting on what-ifs. If you start
doing that, you may as well wonder what if you hadn't been born.
The problem is, I'm a proud, jealous person, and lose my temper easily. I really liked Jamie.
He was a great friend, and a great guy. He always had a good word and a smile for everyone.
Everyone liked him. And yet, at the time of which I write, I didn't know if I could trust him. To
me, it seemed like there was a reason not to. I don't like thinking about this. It was a long
time ago. I'm old now, and I'm not proud of the feelings I had back then.
I didn't understand the whole Jamie and Margaret thing. I couldn't figure it out. It wasn't
a mathematical problem. Humans aren't straighforward like numbers. But I didn't say anything.
No way was I going to ask them. I watched pettily, and kept quiet.
Eventually, I began to wonder. What did I really know about Jamie? I had become friends with
him, taken him under my wing, when he was just a penniless young sailor. And come to think of
it, I knew scarcely more about Margaret! Nobody did. Mr. Nathanial knew her dad, but that was
it. I knew she could act, because one stormy night she had entertained us by pretending to be
a stage actress. She had assumed three different roles that night, and we hardly recognized
her. Mother disapproved, but I found her enchanting.

Since she was such a little actress, perhaps her normal girlish ways
could be all an act as well.

Mother was a devout religious type, and warned me about people like that, and about "worshipping"
human beings. But I did worship Margaret. She was wonderful. I found her so wonderful, in fact,
that I couldn't imagine that Jamie did not feel the same way. And he was such a likeable guy,
I figured that Margaret must like him very much indeed. I couldn't stop thinking about them, worrying and
doubting, day after day.
Margaret must have found my behavior weird. Sometimes I was constantly by her side, other times
I would refuse to see her for days on end.

I treated Jamie in much the same way; the possibility that he could be two-timing drove me
crazy. Mary didn't notice any of this, but she was a naïve soul, and not too bright. She trusted
everyone. I eventually worked myself up into quite a frenzy. That's the way I was, it was always
all-or-nothing with me.
After February and March, our ship still hadn't sent for us. Jamie said he wasn't comfortable
living off our charity for so long. The fact that I was acting weird couldn't have helped. Finally,
one Friday evening, Mr. Nathanial came in gustily, complainging about his fishermen. His ship was prepared
to set out on the Monday, and just then two of his men had fled, taking their kit with them.

"Jamie and Joseph can fill their places," he said.  Jamie said he would go, if I would. I too agreed,
as I knew he needed the opportunity. All the females started protesting
loudly, except for margaret. She just went white and said nothing.
Mother was none too happy, but said that if I must go, she would at
least try to make the trip less uncomfortable for me. She was up all
night going through dresser drawers. Margaret stayed sewing with Mary
until almost daybreak. Hardly any, indeed, could do it properly, despite the fact that the
singles of some were very neat. It was a little, middle-aged woman, the best 'tyer' in our
party, rather the best in our district, who was a diligent, rapid gatherer, and usually the first
to finish her handful. Lily, I called it, as I saw
it was so white. Ever since it was small, I had it and didn't put it in a cage. It learned to
eat from my hand. After School, when I call Lily, it flew from the other pigeons and landed
on my shoulders. Once, I called for Lily, but I did not see Lily come. I tried to find it in
the barn alone. He shows a truly remarkable sight when it comes
to the conclusion that it  It is very likely that parts of the uterus and sperm wattles are
naturally suited to the separation of airborne particles in the arterial blood.
These observations are based, therefore, that the blood of the embryo carried by the umbilical
arteries to the placenta or the uterine caruncle transport to the fetus, not only nutritious
juice, but also a portion of the nitro-aerial particles, so that blood from the baby seems
to be imbued with nitro-aerial particles by circulation through the umbilical vessels in the
same way as in the pulmonary vessels.
Therefore, I believe the placenta and should not be called a liver cancer, but rather a lung
of the uterus [34].
Although the analysis of attempted Mayow of respiration of the chick embryo in ovo is less successful,
his views on the respiration of the fetus were quickly accepted by many, and its area is presented
as a major contribution to the physiological embryology.
Studies of people like John Standard reporting the weight of various parts of the hen's egg,
for example, shell, yolk, white, reveal the embryological research wing that is increasingly obsessed
with quantification and physical-chemical analysis of the embryo and its vital functions.

There was, however, immediately set to become the mainstream of embryological research. For as
Mayow studies were ongoing, embryology embarked on a course that
leads to preformationism. In the late seventeenth century, the idea
that the embryo was enclosed in miniature, either egg or sperm cells
rose to a position of doctrine, and after that there was little support
for the quantitative study of development. 

If people will not rule themselves with due regard for civilized processes, they will interfere
with how they must be governed, as they always have and always will be, regardless of the state
of the world. The idea that good government must bring back slavery, and that Americans by
being governed well are helping to restore the latter, cannot be considered seriously, even though
some respectable people say so.

Obviously, Mr. Jefferson knew the meaning of his own words. Instead of defending a rightful revolution
in our Declaration of Independence, he was asked, after some time passed, to actually govern by
our Constitution. Did Mr. Jefferson carry out his radical words as these so-called disciples
now insist on? Was Jefferson guilty of undermining Constitutional government when he bought many
thousands from Spain, France, New Orleans, as well as American Indian lands as if they were sheep?
The critics are lying when they say we are doing the same in the Philippines. We bought no
one in the Philippines. We controlled the Philippines in the same way we held our own original
sates, by the right of conquest. This is the best and most recognized of all rights, and it
is the way in which nearly ever country on earth holds its own territory. We held the Philippines
again as a rightful payment. It was a low payment for a war in which the country we defeated
could give nothing else. Having not bought a thing, our 20 millions that we received on the transfer
evened out the Philippine debt.

Jefferson did, of course buy the occupants of the Louisiana territory “like sheep,” if one
cares to describe it that way – and his latter-day followers choose somewhat of a hypercritical
approach to interpret all this. Jefferson did begin to govern those people without their consent.
President Monroe also bought the people of Florida without their consent. Then there was Polk,
who conquered the people of California, and Pierce who bought the people of New Mexico. And
Seward bought Alaska and its Russians, whom we have governed without their consent ever since. So,
in the face of such facts, it is easy to give credence to quibbles based on calling attention to
a phrase from the Declaration.

Also, Senator Hoar’s constitutional objection is not much stronger. He wants to look at motives
and snoop into the reasons for those wishing to obtain the territory. He wants to do this even
before the courts can rule on the matter. The act is constitutional,
though, if we obtain the territory for defense purposes or to make
the territory a state; or it is not. If Jefferson meant to make Idaho
a state when he got that part of the Louisiana Purchase that was fine.
If not, he violated the his sworn oath to uphold the Constitution.
But poor Jefferson knew nothing of the territory where Idaho now exists,
and he certainly never figured that Idaho would become a state –
any more than Daniel Webster (in his own words) figured that “California
would ever be worth a dollar.” Both times
Mr. Ash competed, he came in at a close second, but despite not winning first, his venture for
the Roman Scholarship Prize was high enough to win him an honorable mention.
H.L. Duhring Jr. was a close second for the University of Pennsylvania scholarship.

At the last T Square Club meeting, two sets of drawings were submitted. The program called
for a "Garden for a Palatial Country House", and required the scales to be 1/8" for a house and
terrace, and a 1/32" scale for the garden sections.
The problem was nearly the same as the project given at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, both of which required
a vast amount of graded color wash work, to intimidate many competitors. A. C. Muñoz won first mention
after submitting three drawings, two of them were three by four feet. Albert Kelsey was disqualified
for omiting the 1/8" scale plan.
Some discussion about the postponment of the competition took place, but Kelsey would rather be
disqualified than work on the project any longer; and the fact that three draughtsmen in Day's
office and two in Cope & Stewardson's office had unfinished designs to complete may have influenced
his decision. But dspite of the result, Mr. Kesey's eleven points
gave him the highest average for the past year's work. sancho goes to mointain in search of long sticks and he cut four long
sticks and placed in the saddle,he gradually raised the sticks till it was cleared of the animals
back. He led the tired ass in the moonlight,undisturbed,snored on.In the daylight when he
stretched up sticks fell down with a terrible bump fell sancho,squire yelled up and down with
tears in search of ass but could not find for many months afterwards.By reading the history of
don Quixote adventure in the mountains we can know how he got back the ass.At last curate and the
barber of la manche took him in the cart which the knight believed to be an enchanted chariot.
V HOW DON QUIXOTE SAW DULICINEA  Don Quixote set off on his search with sancho for third
adventure away from their village.His duity as a knight-errant to visit the beautiful Dulcinea at
toboso it was midnight and whole town was still and asleep,he said to sancho to lead me to
her palace.
 Shortly before this
time he came back from Caen, in Normandy, and he let me know that when he had checked the ground
that William the Conqueror had taken Military fame before he descended to England, and he concluded
that the Conqueror was well taught for his time in the art of war. He made known his intention
to write about it; but the great events that occured later led him to India, which was the scene
of his mastery in military, and command.
T.F.
To Come (Vol. viii., p. 468)-- In the Lower Saxon language, to come
is camen and the imperfect in Gothic, quam. It would appear that English
was not an innovation, but a restoration in part of an ancient form. THE WINNIE.--An lengthways came by an
French example by the Beginning Conglomerate flow, the asperity by which are palliated away
the gain from brief buzzers. An bangle are the mouth inward the pate,
which enables the lid to comprise applied since an megaphone at ask. problems February 28
- German Embassy in Washington, a statement characterizing the statements Stegler about Capt. Boy-Ed
as "false and fantastic," and "pathological character, and tried hinting at blackmail.
RELIEF work.
February 2 - It is planned to send a Belgian relief ship with supplies donated entirely by people
from New York, France facilitate the entry of U.S. tobacco as a gift sent by French soldiers,
the organization is formed in New York called War Relief Clearing House for France and her
allies to systematize transport of goods.
February 3 - Russia allowed supplies to be sent to the captives, but
the Russian military authorities will be distributed.

February 4 - Steamer sailing Aymeric laden food from twelve countries to Belgium.
February 5 - Russia refuses to allow relief shipments to serve German and Austrian prisoners in Siberia,
the United States calls for an American doctor be allowed to accompany the distribution of
Red Cross supplies to meet their American Commission for Relief in Belgium is to send food
to some towns and villages of northern France in German hands, where representatives of the
Commission have found stressful conditions.
February 7 - New York women plan to equip a maternity mothers deprived of Belgium.
February 10 - Great Steamer sails with supplies for the Belgian city estimated to be worth $
530,000, which is the most valuable goods from the factory, is sending gifts to each state,
50,000 people have contributed, the Rockefeller Foundation is negotiating in Romania cereal
for people of Poland.
February 12 - American Girls' Aid Society in France send enough clothing to clothe 20,000 people.
February 13 - Otto H. Kahn lends resident in London for use of
soldiers and sailors who were blind during the war. 
2:14 - Rockefeller
Foundation reports that the situation in Belgium is without parallel
in history, the Commission for Relief announces it is possible to
send money directly from the United States for people in Belgium. In the field of production
of cotton and addition of  economic duty,what are your ideas towards benefaction of human race
and personal sentiments to the labor of cotton industry? In my opinion churches can improve the minds of people. When
the church bell rings on sunday the soul of people may rise to god. In the peaceful gathering of the
church people may repend, put their faith in god, became hopeful, keep away from sin, all
this may happen. Sundays may become renewal days for the souls.All these things happens only
to a very few who are pious and godfearing.But does churches renovate an ordinary person. How
many are consoled by the gospel? How many of them can understand the inner meanings of the
gospel.How many people can put away their sins and come towards the happiness of god? Only a few aexperience
all these.But instead of all this churches prove to be good for the people. Eventhough they
are not achieving the aim . The main of the evil of the church is that the priests of the
churches are not well experienced. Of course 90% of the priests are pure minded and and well-
intentioned people. But they have not seen the world. They does not experience the difficulties
faced by the common men. They can make nice speeches, advice and preach. They are not able to understand
the difficulties in practising it. After the studies in seminary they settle in as a priest
in a long estalished church. They dont have any experience about cheatings ,evils and many
other problems a common man have to face. A
teacher who is in the nature of judgment makes a celestial exaltation of surveys on the political
endeavours of the early times and of today in a shining impartial way makes analysis, definition,
catalogues etc. and thereby does a fine work. Even the present writer may forget to remind such
a teacher. As a metter of fact, that kind of teaching is necessary in our schools today. No one
can deny our present political problems which are seem to be horrible to the millions of people.
Because these issues influence the life of the people either as their happy or as sorrow. The
need of the hour is involvement of the yound peculiar classes to into these political problems
and find suitable solutions for them. ANSCHAR: A NORTHERN STORY.
By RICHARD JOHN KING. 7s.
CHANCE AND CHOICE: The Circumstances Education.  Two Stories: 1. The Young Teacher. -- 2.
Claudine de Soligny. Post 8vo.
COMPTON MERIVALE: Taking a leaf out of the lesson of life. Coming
from the same Author of "Brampton Rectory."

A COMPANION VOLUME. 8s. 6d. 
JAMES DAVIES BIOGRAPHY, A Village
Schoolmaster. By SIR THOMAS PHILLIPS. Supplied with a Portrait and
Woodcuts. Foolscap 8vo. 3s. 6d.  
JOHN CARTER: The Story of Life.
By W.J. DAMPIER, Vicar of Coggeshall. Post 8vo. 

The seeds of the aging trees blew by the thousands down the south-west
gales; each falling seed taking root, which cannot produce the wide-leaf
trees, but however the seeds of the needle-leaved are anticipated.

 "Genius is the higher activity of the soul, according to Diderot.
Rousseau states that, "Genius makes knowledge unnecessary" and Kant tells us that genius is "the
talent to discover that which cannot be taught or learned." The idea here is to show all that
transcends beyond all mundane matters, and show that man is the source of his own light and
power.
Such a view of life places man at the center of the all things. It releases him of religious denomination
and illusive fears. From those limits created by his own imagination that questions his self
worth and places demands upon him in the name of religion.
Humanism is full of a sense of freedom. These extraordinarily considerations don't belong in the
world view of the humanist.
Man lives with in a small world, but has an eternal and infinite destiny. The humanist sees man
as having been free of oppression wrought by supernatural revelation and laws. It is this independence
that gives rise to Goethe perennial enthusiasm.
He says, that it is the greatest bliss which humanist's won back for us. Therefore, we must try
with all our might to keep it.
We have attempted to show briefly the primary source of contemporary thought, so that we might see
where we once were. If you will, the quarry from which civilization was dug. The minister tends
to miscalculate the character of the ideas, which are embedded into
many of the institutions and practices, which impinge upon him and
his message.

They form an attrition that wears away at the religious character of the community. Current
vagueness at the pulpit, with it's uncritical impression, is influenced by the non-religious character
of most elitists outside of the church, that press upon it and the rest of the thinkers.
Humanism from the 17th and 18th century had a strong influence in early American religious sermons.
In the late 1700's many broke from the Protestant scholaticism of the Reformation.
The French Revolution, even from across the Atlantic, made the idea of the rights of man and
individual sovereignty accepted. Atheism became popular in our young nation.
Many sophisticated men, of excellent education, began to mock the
idea that Christianity should be taken seriously. College students
took upon them the names of Voltaire, Paine, and even the infamous
Rousseau. And I never got a chance to talk
to them, as you said that you would be directing when I asked the credentials letter, so that
we can discuss everything, then you said that "We do not trust that this case will ever be achieved
by anyone other than servants of the God." Exactly otherwise have been made. All due to the fact that
we have not received real recognition yet for our mistakes. I understand that my humble words
proceeded from fear and politics rather than the actual impulse to love and virtue, and it was
wrong of actually observed, the acts would correspond to the words and you have to believe in your needs
and you have to do what you wanted from Holy Father in the hands of genuine God servants. They
would thus have been able to pursue your business and holy father so that you could achieve a good
understanding. But you have not tried it, which is why I have great bitter feeling over abuse of
God, and also on our losses.
But you don't perceive what is evil, and how great adversity comes your stubbornness, and easy
to resolution! oh me! relieve yourself out of pride, and tie yourself to the humbleness, and
not despise or oppose his Vicar. Will no longer be so! Because the love of Christ is crucified!
do not keep his blood cheaply! That which does not make a thing of the past, do it now. And
Do not feel bad or contemptuous if it seems to you that Holy Father called for what seemed a very
difficult and impossible task. Yet, he does not want anything other than what is possible for
you. But he was not so real father, who punish his son while he is doing wrong deeds. He reproves
him seriously, to make him act humbly, and aware of his fault, and no true son will be angry
with his father, because he sees that what he is doing, has been the love for him, therefore,
more a father drive him away, the more he will return to him, asking
mercy.

So I say on behalf of the crucified Christ, the more we should be despised father of Christ
on earth, that many times you have to escape from him. Allow him do as he, because he is right.

See, now that he is coming for his bride who is to organize the place of St. Peter's and St. Paul's.
Do you run towards him as soon as the genuine humility of the heart and change your sins after
a sacred principle, that you have began. This will give you peace, spiritual and physical. And
if you does anything in a way that our ancestors never did so much grief as we have, as we
invite God's wrath down on us, and may not share blood of the lamb.
I will not say any more. Not so busy, you can now that the pope is Rome. I have done and will
do what I can, until death, the glory of God and his peace, so that this obstacle can be removed,
because it prevents the sweet and holy crusade. If nothing else, it should become ill, we are worth
one thousand times of hell. Comfort you in Christ Jesus our sweet, I hope, His goodness, that
if you like the way you should you have a great peace. Catherine, far from discouraging humiliation
or failure of new energy bending itself the reason for which he was still a great time at heart
- the return of the Pope in Rome. Ascendency which he took possession of his fragile life was
soon obvious to all, and hardly realized it was the only influences set to work. Other people
next to this woman of Siena could write letters, and as Gregory proved to be superstitious,
and easily affect the holy fools, why was ecstatics enough in Europe! The Pope, as is evident from
this reply Catherine, received an anonymous letter, cunningly wrought, supposedly by a man of
God, is working on a well-known love of family and tenderness of natural poison warning him
he would dare return to Rome. Whether Catherine's assume that the letter was a forgery proceeding
papal court was justified, we do not know if the episode is now of interest primarily because it
attracted a response, which shows how contemptuous of the world can not be submissive. Catherine's
exposure to sharp weakness anonymous correspondent to show him a new perspective. Appalling contempt
for Clement. "He wrote that I do not think understands his trade
well, he should put himself to school," he writes, and progresses
to the analysis so convincing and so refreshing that call, even fragile,
Gregory must have the re-magnetized with the power to solve. He turned
around and opened Diana's door without even knocking. He would have slammed it in my face if Kitty
Main hadn't been about to come out. She obviously had her hand already on the know when he pulled
it away from her. "Oh, Major!" she cried. While the extravagant
limitations of his bodily pleasures with such objects as I allude to within the walls of his
separate, yet private quarters, the moralist has no right to meddle in his privacy. It is only
when they are forced into public view, and bravely opposed to public disdain, that the lash
of the comics is essentially useful. At least in exposing the methodical seducer, and putting
the innocent and the righteous on their guard against the practice of wastefulness.
 "Dey were a heap o' talk 'bout de Yankees a-givin' ever' Negro forty
acres an' a mule. I don't know how us come to hear 'bout it. It just' be got aroun'. I picked out
my mule. All o' us did.
"Times were mighty tough. Us thought us did know trouble endurin' de war. Um-m-m! Us didn' know
nothin' 'bout that trouble.

"Dey were so many of them slaves at McAllum's, dey had to thin 'em out. Mistis put us out[FN: hired
us out]. She sent me to Mr. Scott close to Scooba. I were mos' a grown boy by den an' could plow
pretty good. Come de surrender, Mr. Scott say, 'Sambo, I don't have to pay yo' mistis for
you no more I feel. I have to pay you if you stay ya know. Niggers is free. You is free.' I
didn' b'lieve it. I worked dat crop out, but I didn' ask for no pay. Dat didn' seem right. I
didn' un'erstan' 'bout freedom, so I went home to my old mistis. She say, 'Sambo, you don't b'long
to me now.'
"Dey bound us young Negro's out. Dey sent me an' my brother to a man dat were goin' to give us some
learnin' 'long wid farmin'. His name were Over street. Us worked hard to get that crop out, but
us aint never seen no good speller, nor nothin'.
"Den us went back to Stephenson's, where us were born, to git us age. Old mistis say, 'Sambo,
you ain't by now twenty-one yet.'
"She cried, 'cause I had to go back to Mr. Overstreet. But I didn'. My mammy an' me went back
to McAllum's an' stayed until a man give us a patch in turn[FN: return] for us he'pin' him
on his farm.
"I know 'bout de Kloo Kluxes[FN: Klu Kluxes]. I seen 'em. 'Bout de firs' time I seen 'em were de
las'. Aint nobody know zackly[FN: exactly] 'bout dem Kloo Kluxes. Some say it were a sperrit
dat hadn' had no water since de war. One rider would drink fo' or five gallons at one time--kep'
us a-totin' buckets fas' as us could carry 'em. It were a sperrit, a evil sperrit.
"But folks dat aint acted right liable to be found mos' anytime tied up some'r's: De Niggers were a-havin'
a party one Satu'd'y night on Hampton's plantation. Come some men on horses wid some kin'
o' scare-face on 'em. Dey were all wropped[FN: wrapped] up, disguised. De horses were kivered[FN:
covered] up, too. Dey call for Miler Hampton. He were one o' de Hampton Niggers. He been up to somethin'.
I don't know what he done, but dey say he done somethin' bad. Dey didn' have no trouble gittin'
him, 'cause us were all scared us'd git kilt, too. Dey carried 'im off wid 'em an' kilt him
dat very night.
"Us went to DeKalb nex' day in a drove an' ask de white folks to he'p us. Us buy all de ammunition
us could git to take de sperrit, 'cause us were a-havin' 'nother party de nex' week. Dey didn'
come to dat party.
"I don't know why dey don't have no Kloo Kluxes now. De sperrit still have de same power.
"Den I go to work for Mr. Ed McAllum in DeKalb--when I aint workin'
for de Gullies.

Mr. Ed were my young marster, you know, an' now he were de jailor in DeKalb.
"I knowed de Chisolms, too. Dat's how come I seen all I seen an' know what aint never been
tol'. I couldn' tell you dat. Maybe I's de only one still livin' dat were grown an' right
dere an' seen it happen. I aint scared now nothin' 'ud happen to me for tellin'--Mr. Currie'd
see to dat--I jus' aint never tol'. Dem dat b'longed to my race were scared to tell. Maybe it
were all for de bes'. Dat were a long time ago. Dey give out things den de way dey wanted 'em
to soun', an' dat's de way dey done come down:
"'It started wid Mr. John Gully gittin' shot. Now Mr. Gully were a
leadin' man 'mong de white democratic people in Kemper, but dey aint
had much chance for 'bout seven years (I disremember jus' how long)
on 'count o' white folks lak de Chisolms runnin' ever'thing. Ever'body
were sho' it were some' o' de Chisolm crowd, but some folks knowed
it were dat Nigger, Walter Riley, dat shot Mr. Gully. (But aint nobody
ever tol' de sho' 'nough reason why Walter shot Mr. John Gully.)
"'De Chisolms warnt Yankees, but dey warnt white democratic people.
Dey do say de Chisolms an' folks lak' em used to run 'roun' wid de
Yankees. You may find a friendly opportunity to pursue
a change of world-wide magnitude. Welcome are young men who have been schooled well and not lacking
of energy or time, who wish to join with others towards this cause.
 There exists a general opinion saying that we
should not read Scripture with freedom of assenting or dissenting, just as we judge it agrees or
disagrees with the light of nature and reason of things.' In a more direct way, he writes:
'Admit all for Scripture that tends to the honour of God, and nothing which does not.' In the end, he
concludes by explaining the absolute identity of Christianity with natural religion. 'God never
meant mankind to not have a religion, or to have an imperfect religion; there should have been
since the beginning of the time a perfect religion, wich could be understood at all times. Christianity
is this perfect, original religion.'
The climax of Deism is reached in this book. Even Toland or Collins had not raised such a sensation.
One hundred and fifteen answers appeared. One of the most remarkable of those was Conybeare's
'Defence of Revealed Religion against "Christianity as old as the Creation."'In his work Conybeare
discusses in cal and dignified, but at the same time luminous and impressive language, the
important question which Tindal had raised. Acknowledging the element of truth wich Tindal's
work contained, he shows the complications in which it is invovled. He also shows that the author
had confused two distinct meanings of the phrase 'natural reason' or 'natural religion,' viz.
(1) that which is founded on the nature and reason of things, and (2) that wich is discoverable
by man's natural power of mind. Even more, Conybeare distinguishes between that which is perfect
in its kind and that which is absolutely perfect. This amazing work is not very known in the
present day. However, it was highly appreciated by Conybeare's contemporaries. The German historian
of English Deism expresses in strong language his admiration of its excellence.(155)

But Tindal had even a stronger adversary than Conybeare. Butler's 'Analogy' deals with the
arguments of 'Christianity as old as the Creation' more than with those of any other book. However,
since this was not avowedly its object, and as it covered a far wider ground than Tindal did, embracing
in fact the whole range of the Deistical controversy, it may perhaps be better to postpone the
consideration of this masterpiece until the sequel. We've known for some time what sorts of specialized treatments those diseases need to follow,
and we must say about them: the wood will be plentiful if you tend
to the tree's cortex and cambrium. We
must keep the fortune until tomorrow when my house will be without a pest to which we'll proceed
soon afterward.

Lentulus look at him and asked him "Will you really?". He stopped before completing the question.
"Remove her?", Catiline said as the unfinished sentence was complete. "My, my!! I will just
because a serpent is coming my way. And now that it is complete,
what should we do now?" "He was removed by force. The return in question shows exactly this. He is
being claimed as property. He has not voluntarily avoided. There is no evidence before the Commissioner
about that. If the Commisioner chooses, we are ready to proceed."
The Commisioner. "Sir, you cannot address the Court. A person who avoids process, cannot appear
by attorney, it is well settled. However, If the Marshal sees fit he may make such a return.
I cannot interfere. However, I find the return suitable, and it may be filed."
 For two weeks at Tuskegee the regular
Farmers' Short Course is offered. The ccounty schools are closed for this period of time so
that the teachers and students are able to attend. This is also a great opportunity for fathers,
mothers, sons, and daughters to sit side by side in a classroom and receive class instruction in raising,
canning, poultry raising, and farming.

There is also courses offered for women and girls in the care of children and housekeeping.
 Many times before I have heard 'Continental damn', but it had
never occurred to me what the article really was. I know Dante has provided a corner for those who
were in-continentally condemned; but it was reserved for you to abridge the word, and so make
a vice of a virtue!  I once lived in a village. An itinerant dramatic company came to this village
and advertised to play a grand moral temperance drama, called Down the Hill.  The primary
actor was named Eglantine Mowbray. It became apparent that the latter syllable of his last name
was the only portion thereof to which he was really entitled, as he had a very raucous nature. The
bills showed the following title:  UNPARALLELED ATTRACTION.  On Monday Evening,  THE YOUTHFUL
ROSCUSS!  EGLANTINE MOWBRAY!!  Will perform in his magnificent rôle,  DOWN THE HILL.  The
rubes had seen circuses before, but had never seen energetic youthful Roscusses. This was completely
beyond anything they had experienced prior to this night. Quite as unfamiliar was the word rôle,
which, to their illiteracy, stood for movement, by 'turning on the surface, or with a circular
motion, in which all parts of the surface are successively applied to a plane, 'as to roll a
barrel or puncheon.' [You use Webster?]  So, when the 'show' opened many people showed up
to see it. There was an enormous crowd of two hundred and thirty onlookers, and each of them
waited with hopeful anticipation for an acrobatic performance.  Despite this, they enjoyed
the play. In those days, Temperance was rife among us. It was 'in our midst,' as people ought not
to say. The inebriated ignominies of John the Inebriate were appreciated by the people. Regardless,
there was an obvious sense of unfulfilled anticipation, which increased with every act. Each member
of the audience whispered to their fellow villager the same thought, 'How long we gotta wait
for him to roll down-hill.'  The play ended. The Drunkard died, under a strong pressure of
delirium tremens, moaning and braying at volumes high enough to frighten away the fiends which
surrounded. To everyone’s surprise on stage and off, the fall of the curtain was accompanied
by a thunder-roar of loathing, and hisses were heard like rain falling.  The audience voted
the play a humbug. The village was disappointed. Eglantine Mowbray stock went down to nothing.
But the manager was a cunning man. He realized what the people wanted, and was determined
to fix it.

A poster was posted the next morning that declared that on that night Mr. Eglantine Mowbray
would end his performance with his awesome and unequaled endeavor of rolling down the hill!
And he did. The Inebriate showed at the last second with jug in hand, unbearable and moaning.
He was at the top of a huge boulder that sloped down at a forty-five degree angle which led
down to a secretive rocky ditch. Here lied overgrown briers and bushes, all bearing brambles with
spikes of thorns,that appeared as twisted dangerous hooks.
 They acted as if they intended to give satisfaction
to the demands of justice when they required that the Inquisitors be prudent and impartial judges.
The law itself should have been just and impartial, whereas this
made everything dependent upon individuals. For
Mr. Somerville, he wrote: "My mind was very weak when I was at my worst, and therefore the things
of eternity often tenuous. I was not afraid to die, because Christ had died. However prayed
for the recovery if it was the will of the Lord. "Remember you told me to be humble in his
last advice. You see that God is teaching me the same thing. I'm afraid I'm not completely
humiliated. I feel the pride of my heart, and mourn for him . "To his kind physician friend, Dr.
Gibson, in Dundee, wrote:" I really thought that my teacher had called me home, and would sleep
under the dark green cypresses of Boujan until the Lord come, and those who sleep in it come
with it, and my most fervent prayer was for me my flock, that God would give them a pastor after
his own heart. "
When we met, after the separation of eight days aboard the ship at Constantinople, mentioned as
one of the most interesting incidents of the week, one night, while walking with Mr. Lewis,
they found a young Greek and its wife, both of which were believed to actually converts the soul. It
created an emotion in her womb to comply with these representatives of the almost solitary once more
natural and faithful of the church tried to Smyrna.
Meanwhile, there was movement in the house turned out to be the Lord that He is "the mighty
one does." The cry of his servant in Asia was not forgotten: the eye of the Lord turned toward
his people. It was during the time of illness of Mr. M'Cheyne pain that his flock in Dundee were
receiving the blessing of the open windows of heaven. His pastor was lying on the door of death,
in utter helplessness. But the Lord had done this very objective, because he wants to show that
he did not need any help: I could send new workers, and the work of new instruments, when he pleased.
We did not know that during the days that were waiting at the foot of Lebanon to bring a ship
to Smyrna, the arm of the Lord had begun to be unveiled in Scotland. On July 23 the great revival
in Kilsyth was carried out.
Mr. W.C. Burns, the same who was supplying the place of honor M'Cheyne in his absence, was the
day that the preaching of the flock of his father, and while pressing on them immediate acceptance
of Christ with great solemnity, the whole great assembly were defeated.
 The orphic of Melpomene recognised
to Miss Terry as well as the surreptitious of Thalia. As remembrances the rest of the troupe
there is always a towering standard at the Lyceum, but some exceptional denotation should be done
for Mr. Alexander's outstanding presentation of Laertes. This Fiddle's form is more advanced than that of the one supplied
in the St. Blasius manuscript. There are four strings in this form, for example, but there is
not bridge indicated. Had there been a bridge, there would not have been evidence of a Saxon
knowledge of tuning the strings to given intervals, allowing the user to play upon each string.
It is doubtful, in the face of what little knowledge exists about the condition of instrumental
music at the time, whether any bowed instrument was used, other than for the purpose of rendering
a rude extemporaneous accompaniment to the voice or the dance.
There is agreement among the chief authorities of ancient minstrelsy that the Saxon's love
of music was cultivated for centuries with ardor by his Saxon ancestors. Therefore, it is
reasonable to believe that a Saxon's knowledge of rude Fiddles was derived from his homeland and
not from any instrument he may have discovered in Britain. [15] The similarity of the instrument
in the St. Blasius manuscript and the instrument in the hands of the Saxon Gleeman in the Cottonian
manuscript is evidence of its Teutonic origin. This conclusion is strengthened by the fact that
the Anglo-Saxons (the name used by the whole of the Teutonic race) used the word "Fithele" for
nearly two centuries after the Norman Conquest. In Germany, the word "Fithele" was used as late as the
12th century, however around this time, the word "Geige" was used more often to designate an
instrument--usually an "improved Rebec" strung with three strings--as a fiddle. [17] The use of the
word "Geige" instead of "Fithele" in Germany during the 12th century is noteworthy for bearing
upon the Teutonic origin. The earliest use of the word "Geige" in France is in connection with the
Jongleurs. It was popular until the 15th century to describe a fiddle using the word "Geige"
until eventually, the word became watered down to mean "a joyous dance, which for a considerable
period was enlivened by the sound of a fiddle."
M. Lacroix believed that "Germany created the Geige" while other authorities on the subject
believe that the people of Provence brought the Geige into the world. However, Lacroix's view
is the one which is supported by the strongest evidence. One group of inquirers state that the word
derives from the French and Italian words for "leg of mutton" [18], although Wigland has argued
that "Geige" is derived from the old northern word "Geiga," which means "trembling" or perhaps
from "Gigel," which means "to quiver." Considering the nature and character of the fiddle, Wigland's
derivations seems both ingenious and more correct.  Roger North shrewdly conjectured that
the "rude and gross" Gothic Fiddle was "used to stir up the vulgar [commonpeople] to dancing,
or perhaps to solemnise their idolatrous sacrifices." (In the Dark Ages, dancing may have been
performed as little more than trembling while standing on two legs.) In the early ages of mankind,
dancing or quivering must have been done to the sound of the voice, next to that of the pipe.
When the bow was discovered, the quivering was performed on a stringed instrument--the "Geige"--so
named because of its primary association with dancing.
 When we look at any map we are bound to wonder why some rivers
terminate in a delta, while others in an estuary. For example, the Thames, which is the reason
for the riches and power of London, terminates into a splendid estuary. The Thames could not
have excavated this estuary at its present level but it dates back to a period when the south-east
of England stood at a comparatively higher level. Then the land stood high, the German ocean was
once dry land when the Thames ran northwards after joining the Rhine and eventually draining
into the Arctic Ocean. There were once under water, the sites of deltas of the present day,
for example that of Nile and formed by the sediments of the river. The rivers do not always
tend to deepen their valleys and they do so only when the slope is steep. Otherwise there is
a tendency to raise their beds by deposits of sand and mud from higher levels. That is why most
of the celebrated rivers - like the Nile, the Po, the Mississippi, the Thames, etc., run on
self made embankments.  The most dangerous of the Apennine Rivers, The Reno is up to 30 feet
above the adjoining country, at some points. When not impeded, such rivers, run past their banks
and form new course along the lowest part of their valley. If they are not contained in their
own channels by human interference, these rivers alter their courses continually. A river flowing
down an evenly inclined plane in almost a straight line would be vacillated by any obstacle. This
could only be countered by an equal gravitational pull exerted on the water falling downwards.
The curves are widespread if the fall is 10 feel per mile, since the radius depends on the
volume of water and angle of inclination of the bed. According to Fergusson, the curve formed is
about six times the width of the river, for a fall of 1 foot per mile. So it is very difficult
to alter the natural oscillation, and literally it is a waste of
time and effort. The judges and the magistrate came and his majesty spoke majestically
without any obstruction.Then the silver top of his staff fall down and Mr. Rushworth took it
up. Suddenly I heard Bardshaw the judge talking to the majesty.Sir
wh instead of answering the court why did you question their power
which is not good for your status.

Hearing this I was thunderstuck .How could a subordinate of his majesty dare to blame him.
But to my surprise he replied with out any pretty feelings and avoiding rashness,  After that
his majesty was executed the parliament for some years. without any harm to the public peace
of the nation . 
. I was very confused by all the shouting which
I heard coming through the church window. Not only that but H. Nevil gave the bride away and
it was all because of my influence. I knew it could never be a profitable deal. The bride was
breaking her heart inside the carriage and she kept on crying at the station. It was all a
bit too much for me. Besides the Wardian Case there is a new feature called the
Aquatic Plant Case, otherwise known as the Mr Warington's Plant Aquarium. This latest presentation
shows aquatic plants being grown in water. Compared
to the Cumberlands, this range of mountains is larger, more varied, and considerably more inhospitable.
Temperature lows during the winter months are extreme and the damp environs introduce many dangers
for those exploring. Any fishermen who can brave the elements there, however, may find many spots
that will yield a good catch.
 Published in Weekly Numbers, price: 1 1/2d.
SPENDING HALF-HOURS WITH THE BEST AUTHORS. VolumeIII., including Portraits on Steel of SCOTT,
BYRON, COWPER, and WORDSWORTH, the book cover is handsomely bound
in cloth, released now with low price 2s. 6d. Vols. I and II., uniformly
bound as Vol. III, are now constantly on sale. The
writings of Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the other prophets should duly be called miracles
because even though they write long before Christ was born they told us that there would come
the day when the Saviour King would come and save the humanity.
The wall of Jerusalem would not hold. The city would be devastated. The Jews theirselves would suffer
terribly. Even though all these horrible things would happen, God would come and save his people
in the end.

When the predicted troubles came, the prophets were devastated, and their hearts were torn when
they say their land being destroyed by the khafirs. Lungs, bronchial cavities containing a large amount of mucus.
Hepatization was found in the fore part of their substance.
Pathology.--Not much is known about the nature and production of this disease. Just as in other
areas of knowledge, we record what we do know about it, being careful to separate truth and reason
form conjecture. As stated earlier, there were often no marks of visible disease preceding
its access, at least none that caught our attention. Apparently, the little subjects were simply
in a drooping or feeble state. In other instances, a common remittent or intermittent fever preceded
the ulcuration. In one instance, whenever a child was brought to the nursery for a fever, it was
only a matter of time before his mouth would become sore. In other cases, it is possible that
an unreported "inward fever" may have existed, which seemed likely due to their loss of appetite.
In the instance where we opened the body, hepatization of the lungs was found to be the original disease;
however, it is likely that this affection caused the species of disease which a rapidly spreading
pathology refers to as a gradual inflammation of the stomach and intestines. As stated earlier,
I did not detect marks of this, as is the case with most of the other observers.
Generally, at the onset, the local appearances did not appear to be of an inflammatory nature. It
was not so if the gums were the first part to be affected; when these parts are inflammed, as they
often are in affections of the teeth, soreness, pain, swelling and increased redness are exhibited.
In nine of the ten cases, the ulcerated part was paler than natural; neither soreness nor
increased heat was found, with the exception of the few cases in which the mouth was hotter
than normal but not referrible to the gums. Distinct redness and slight swelling were found
around the ulcer in a few of the cases. These patients typically had better outcomes than the
others.
On the other hand, if we supposte the original derangement took place in the periosteum, we can more
easily explain some of the phenomena. This led us to reason that most of the body had shrunk
considerably from the disease and since the circulation was deprived of its normal vigour, the
periosteum, which has little vitality, was not able to bear the additional extension that
took place across the inflexible bone of the tooth. It died due to the lack of blood flow. This
was followed by ulceration of the adjacent parts; and these parts, especially the less vital
periosteum, did not attract the interest of the other parts of the system until a mass of cellular
substance, such as extensive mucous membrane of the mouth, became
affected.

In every case with the exception of two, the disease began following
contact with the teeth.

This would explain the rapid and severe penetration of the ulcer
found along the roots of the teeth as well as the destruction of the
bone.

This is supported by the finding that in every loose tooth a portion of the fang was lacking
its periosteum.
In the two cases that were exceptions, it seems to have begun in the mucous membrane of the fauces.
The manner in which it spreads from the gums to the cheek and lips, in my opinion, indicates
a greater liability than gangrene in multiple parts of the mouth.
Soreness and pain of the socket, the basis for most tooth-achs, would typically be expected here;
however, there were no complaints of this nature, even when the teeth were loosinging. Since no fever
existed at this time, inflammation cannot be assumed as the original irritation, with the exception
of the cases which exhibite redness and a slight swelling of the gums.
Is this disease scorbutic?--I did not observe ecchymoses, no more than a single instance of
the smallest red specks on the cutis, which resembled petechiae. None of the patients fainted;
the gums were never found to be spongy and did not bleed more than what is normal for any
other child under the same degree of violence.
 Satouriona, satisfied with his Indians, commanded them
to assist the French in their duties. They swiftly heeded him, and thatched with palmetto leaves
the buildings of the fort. The work only took two days.

The Indians were members of one of Florida's native confederacies, three of which the French
encountered. The leaders of those confederacies were Satouriona, Outina, and who the French
called King Potanou. Outina's people were called Thimagoas. King Potanou lorded over pine
barrens, bogs, and abundant hills west and northwest of a noteworthy river. The three confederacies
loathed each other, and fought incessantly. They were of a higher class than the nomad hunter tribes.
The confederacies were agricultural, and farms of maize, beans, and pumpkins surrounded all
of their villages. The crops were harvested into a public granary, and the stock lasted them
through about nine months of the year, but in winter they had to go into the forest to hunt.

They
looked very healthy and muscular, the males, who were nearly nude in the summer, had their limbs
and body covered in tattooed. They had straight, black hair, which
fell loosely to their waist. Others tied it up in a knot. There's
a flat, approximately foot-long steel blade. The widest part is about one or two inches and
is four inches or so from the tip. The tip and sides of the blade are very sharp. The haft
has strips of rattan right to the wooden shaft and is bent out from
the shaft, which is made of strong wood about seven feet long. It's
end is usually covered in iron. The war journals were
weathered and dog-eared volumes which I came across now and then. As I turned the pages, I found
photographs of soldiers who had been my war companions at Gettysburg. Recently, I found some lines of
Browning's noble poem 'Saul' which were adapted to express the situaion
then.

They were rewritten on the fifth of July. The poet mentioned the fall of snow from the mountain
during spring to the valley below. The rewritten version aptly described our army's approach
to Gettysburg.
" By waves, we crowded thunderously to face the enemies, grimy and black, we fought your battles
at the frontline. With all the cuts and scars and furrowed brows, we braved on to the battlefield."

We were indeed at Gettysburg at the celebration which I hope; may never happen again on another
fouth of July. Memories of those terrible war days at Gettysburg come flooding to me regardless
of how many years had passed. Even the changes of the recent past did nothing to dull those memories.
We certainly did crowd thunderously to the feet of the enemy. For three terrible days, the unforgettable
chain of events at Gettysburg were replayed yet again.  The infantry men at the first line
of defence in the battle, together with the calvary or horsemen kicked up so much dust that everything
was blurred. We fought hard at battle and moved on. All along the way to Gettysburg, there
were bloodshed and dead soldiers. I was a captain of calvary and in mid June, three weeks before,
one hundred of us proudly headed off to battle. We lost so many comrades in the twenty-day-
battle that only thirty-four out of the hundred men survived. On the battlefield, many lay dead;
many were languishing in hospitals or became prisoners-of-war. On the heights of Aldie, six
young comrades perished and were buried. On the first of July, one late evening, we heard rumours
of heavy battle in Gettysburg nearly forty miles away. We had orders to move in the rear of Sedgwick's
corps and that no man was to be left behind.  We marched all day long to the sound of cannons.
At the front, stern Sedgwick trudged on with his regiment and we moved behind to ensure no one
left the ranks. The roar of battle was getting more distinct as we neared Gettysburg, then
we by-passed the ranks and moved ahead gradually. At the hilltop, we could see white smoke from
the bursting shells some two miles away across the deep valley. The sharp rattle of the musketry
was continuous along with the ongoing war. The road all the way to the battlefield was crammed with
artillery, ambulances, caissons, ammunition trains, and the approaching infantry men of Sedgwick.
They braved on despite their hunger and thirst, their bayonets gleaming, foot-sore and grimy
with sweat and dust. They hurried eagerly along to the sound of the canon.  We quickly crossed
the brook that ran across the battlefield and then stopped to await orders. Before I could dismount
from my horse, the men at the head of the column had jumped into the brook after deploying
men on the other side of the riverbank. They were glad of the cool water to wash off the sweat
and dust of the long march. Shortly after, it seemed that the activities
in the brook were all too rousing and soon, the bathers rapidly dressed
and formed ranks. All at once, they were ready for battle again. 

Jane Hutton,? are those people trying to gain wishes from Jesus?
Jane Hutton opened the discussion. She's toying her new parasol while
her mind was out of the blue about the Sea of Galilee.  Mrs. Mordaunt
rephrased the query the other way. When the princess
was fourteen, her husband died, deserting her heir towards his kingdom. A parliament was convened,
and the young queen was crowned with great solemnity. Then emerged a committee of lords and
commons, petitioning her towards allow them towards seek a number of grand knight or prince
towards marry her and defend the kingdom. Now Catherine had secretly decided not towards marry,
but she resolved with a wisdom not knowledgeable altogether from books. She accepted marry whether
they would fetch her a bridegroom possessing certain qualifications which she knew were impossible
towards fulfil. This silenced the counsellors, and she persisted towards reign alone.
In the course of moment Queen Catherine became a Christian and devoted herself towards works of
religion and charity. Under her lecturing a lot of her civilians were converted towards the
faith. It was a glad kingdom until the Emperor Maxentius chanced towards trip the royal city.
He was a tyrant whom persecuted Christians. Upon his arrival he commissioned social sacrifices
towards idols, and everybody whom would not collaborate within the heathen ceremony were slain.
Then Catherine went boldly towards greet the emperor and predetermined forth towards him the
errors of paganism. Though confounded via her eloquence he was not towards be convinced via the
vocabulary of a mere woman. Accordingly he paged from divers provinces fifty masters "which surmounted
everybody mortal men within worldly wisdom." They were towards hold a debate with the queen
and put her towards confusion. For everybody their arguments, however, Catherine had an answer. So finalise
was her victory that the entire corporate declared themselves Christians. The angry emperor
inflicted them everybody towards be burned and cast Catherine into prison.
Even here she persisted her nice works, converting the empress and a prince whom arrived towards
trip her. There were only 290 men, but when anyone saw them, they were
immediately joyful and inspired. Even the drumbeats instilled further confidence.
 In the words of M. Saint-Marc,
we can instruct and cultivate the mind. However, we cannot cultivate or develop the heart.
M. Dubois, director of the Ecole Normale and M. Guizot, minister of public instruction offered
similar evidence, which stated education is not up to the level of instruction. This was extracted
from an 1836 exposition of the intent of law.

In the words of M de Montalembert, a fervent Catholic who was on the trial of free school in
1831, it is with a heart that is distressed and filled with these
personal souvenirs that I declare I would rather see my children crawl
in both ignorance and idleness rather than expose them to the horrible
risk of obtaining a little knowledge.

For the cost of knowledge and education from College Professors who are not Hostile to religion
but are not religious, is a price that Christians cannot afford. The price of this education
compromises their father’s faith, virtue along with everything that is fresh and pure. This
is because religious education does not exist on college campuses.
 Their was an author who was not classified among the Chief
of English poets but should at least be entitled to a niche in the temple of fame. In calling
attetion to this long forgotten author, we can review 1. Verses in Description of the Chief Cities
of Europe, 2. Chronicle of Queen Elizabeth's Regin and 3. Life of William Camden. By reading these
works they can validate that he was an author of some poetical fancy and is worthy to be "Amonog
the Chief English Poets".
 Although the Dred Scott case decided that negroes are not citizens,
Lincoln insisted on affording to them all rights, privileges and immunities of a citizen stating
"I believe this Government of our was founded on the white basis." Looking up at the man above her, she noticed he was tall, slim and as solemn as the bronze Buddha
statue. He hid his long, thin hands with crossed arms inside the loose satin apricot-colored sleeves
of his decorative garment, all the way up to his wrist. "The carbolic acid therapy of hemorrhoids has gathered the attention of most of us.Hence
the reprint of an article by Pittsburgh medical journal on November ,1883,on the subject from
George B.Fundenberg is both timely and interesting.After comparing six cases,the author depicts
" it would serve no useful purpose to increase this list of cases.the more number I have on record
all prove that this therapy is safe and effectual.i beleive that
the large number of cases can be cured in this manner. The archbishop was offended with them for this
and so he departed accusing them of being traitors to their king, and enemies to the realm.
Meanwhile the French king reached Normandy with an army and came to the town of Gisors .which
he took, the one which Gilbert de Vascoll or Guascoill captain there of yielded unto him along with
another castell named Nefle which he was keeping.
 Man of Sorrows is never far from him. For me there is something sacred and sweet in
all the suffering, but is so similar to the Man of Sorrows. "It was what he suffered, and
therefore to be comforted. He replied, agreeing to go, and added." I remember in particular that
I am often heavy load. My heart is all sin, but the life of Jesus. "
They left England. Mr. Purves, Mr. Somerville of Anderston, Mr. Cumming of Dumbarney, and Mr. Bonar
of Kelso, created the company. His station chief was Newcastle, where Mr. Burns had recently
been working with some success, and where he had seen "a people giving up the absolute wickedness,
a city where Satan trenches were deep and wide, the wall of his strong and loud, its biggest
and boldest garrison, and where all you can do when you have seemed like arrows fired but a tower
of bronze. "But those who were aware that the Spirit of God was omnipotent, and could be prey of
the powerful.

They preached both outdoors and in places of worship belonging to the Presbyterians and Wesleyan
Methodists. The advocates were specially prepared Saturday to welcome Mr. M'Cheyne, whose treatise
on the Lord's Day has been widely distributed and blessed. Many were drawn to listen, interesting congregations
met in the marketplace, and no reason to believe that many were impressed. A person in the city
described the last address of Mr. M'Cheyne as particularly awakening. He preached outdoors in an area
of land between the cloth market and the Church of St. Nicholas. Over a thousand persons were
present, and the continued service until ten, without a person moving from the ground. The
moon was shining and the sky was studded with stars. His topic was "The Great White Throne" (Revelation
20:11). Concluding his speech, he said "that never meet again until everyone gathered in the
court of Christ, but sunny skies overhead, and the bright moon shining on them, and the venerable
old church behind them were his witnesses that he had set before them life and death. "Some will have
cause to remember that night for all eternity [19].
[19] After he preached the same subject with equal grandeur in Dundee Meadows. It was outdoors
and the rain was heavy, however, the dense crowd stopped until the end.
His preaching in Gilsland also was not without effect, and that was reason enough to bless the
Lord for bringing him through Dumfriesshire on his return trip (Sidenote 1: De Subtil. lib 3.)
In response we can say that although it seems that she is the light,
it comes from another source and there are others who demonstrate
it also. 
Logical arguments can be found either 
1. As a true
diplomat should, Cambon ate at the Russian embassy.
*******
From the Latin point of view, the visit by Miss Roosevelt to Cuba was pretty much a failure. It seems
that while there, Miss Roosevelt simply didn't mingle well with the Cubans. She is without a
doubt too Anglo-Saxon in nature and seems unable to adapt to the culture of another race.
She could not form a bond with the children of Cuba, and to the women of Cuba Miss Roosevelt seemed
lacking in the charms that they are so used to with each other. Although we here like her
just fine, due to her inflexibility and lack of experience, she didn't not have the best reception
in Cuba. Miss Roosevelt Scovel was recently seen eating at Sherry's where she was adorned in
a beautiful white dress. She is not the most beautiful of women but her elegance makes up for
her lack of striking beauty.
Brides are the ones who are expected to dress to the utmost. Why then do we find Mrs. Depew
driving about Washington D.C. in a wretched automobile that most would be ashamed to be seen
in. Is she being humble? What could she be thinking driving around in that old car? Although
she is a rather undistinguished looking woman, she is pleasant and smart. She has a difficult
position and she doesn't let it get her down. She shows no signs that she is effected negatively
by the Senator's advanced age. Although just waiting for an opportunity to make fun of the couple,
there has been nothing that she has done to cause this to happen.
We have Mr. Vanderbilt returning from a rather wretched spot on Fifth Avenue to his much more
comfortable and gracious home where he can idle away the hours.
We have all read about the huge amounts of money, then thousand dollars at least, that the ambassador
has spent on Brook House. We must allow though that neither Mr. nor Mrs. Reid have let this knowledge
out about the vast sums being spent. They live simply and did not request such grand housing,
and would have been quite happy in his own home. Fit as can be for
this position, the elegance of the job itself would have been enough
to garner respect. Why then do we have to go beyond this, spending
such a fortune and having it told to the masses will only hurt him. He
was losing his strength, and with this he began to think less. He prayed more though. As time
passed, he prayed all the time, and when he did not pray, he slept. He was familiar with God.
He spoke to God with the familiarity, and innocence, with which a child speaks to his mother.  This
familiarity grew. The scum that was this criminal and murderer began to speak to the Holy Lord
like a friend. The man was dying alone, but believed that God trusted him, even though he had
given him the pains of life. “Lord,” he said with his weakened voice, “ I think I can go on.
I would like to see someone, but I’ll make out to get along…..Lord! I am weak. I know about
these horrible spasms. You get delirious, next thing, you know. Then you get better or stay in
a pitiful state forever. It will be decided by Sunday night. Lord! Dear Lord!” he added,
with a sincere pause, “Please don’t forget me! I hope You’ll miss me enough to hunt me
up.” The sun set early on Saturday night. The darkness began to seep in, as the sun sank under
an ominous web of clouds. The shadows grew long over Scip’s fresh grave. The sky was dark,
with only a few dim stars visible. As the wind began to blow in a frail breeze, the city lights
flickered in the breeze, and seemed to multiple, like objects seen through tears. Zerviah
looked through the wooden shutter. He could see the lights, the lonely palmetto, those few cold stars,
and he could see the grave. While his thoughts remained his own, he thought. He thought with tenderness
and longing of those for whom he had given his life. He thought of how many keen cares of their
own they had. He thought of how many horrible actions and sights they had to do, and to live
with. It was to be expected that he was not missed.

Who was he?— a disgraced, unfamiliar man, living among them. Why should they think of him?
Yet, the memories of them were strangely good. He wished that his living or even his dying
could help them. He began to remember all the little things: kind words from his patients, looks that
healing eyes had turned on him, little signs of human love and leaning. They all cam back to him,
and stood around him as if they were living, as he lay in his bed in his dark hut. “They loved
me,” he said with sudden exasperation, “Lord, as true as I am alive, they loved me! I’m glad
I lived long enough to save life! I cannot thank You enough for that! Lord, I wish there was
something I could do for them! I am willing to die if it could help them in any way. If I
thought I could do anything that way, toward sending them a frost-  “No,” he added, “that
ain’t reasonable. A frost and a human life ain’t convertible coin. He don’t do unresonalb
ethings. May be I’ve lost it already. But I would still be happy to do it. That’s all. I
suppose I can ask You for a frost. That’s alright. “Lord, God or both Heaven and Earth! He
who made the South and the North, and the Pestilence and destruction, and the sick and the well,
and the living, and the dead, have mercy on us, the miserable sinners! Have mercy on all those
who pray to You, and those who don’t! Remember the old graves, the new ones, and the ones
that are to be opened if this hellish het goes on. Send us a blessed frost! O Lord, send us
a blessed frost, as an act of humanity!”
 In the tiny graveyard at Hamlin, one reads
"Beautiful Things" on a unassuming stone at the head of her tiny bed.
EMMA TANNER WOOD.
Mrs. Emma Tanner Wood (Caroline Cunningham), a Topeka female, started newspaper task in 1872. The
issue of those early years' task was "Spring Showers," a volume of prose. After thirty years
of examine and experience among the defectives, she wrote "Too Fit For The Unfit," promulgating
doctors for the feeble-minded. The story of Mrs. Benton, one of the characters, led Mrs. Wood to introduce
a law preventing youngsters being sent to the broke house. This was the first law purely in the spare-time
activity of youngsters ever surpassed in Kansas. Later, a law preventing traveling hypnotists
from engaging educational institution youngsters as subjects in public shows was drawn higher by Mrs.
Wood and passed.
Several years ago, a retain on hypnotism, far in enhance of the public thought, was written and is
to be issued this year.
Mrs. Wood is seventy years young and as she says: "finds age the very sweetest component of
life. It is no small satisfaction to laugh at the follies of others and know that you are past
committing them. It is steadily pleasurable to be responsible simply to one's self and lead
one's life as one chooses. Every day is a holy day to me now and the sweetness of regular item,
grass, flowers, neighborly love, grand-children, and home encourages fill me with satisfaction.
To think kindly of all item below the sun (but sin); to articulate kindly to all; to do tiny
kindly acts is a greater good to the world at many than we think
where we are in the heat of battle."

CORNELIA M. STOCKTON.
A cheerful tiny room in the East wing of St. Margaret's Hospital, Kansas City, Kansas; an invalid
stool wheeled higher to a window through staring the street; and the hopeful, expectant face and the
sultry hand clasp of the occupant, Mrs. Cornelia M. Stockton, assures the tenant of a hearty welcome.

Greatly enfeebled by prolonged illness and with severely harmed sight, this sparkling, tiny
woman's enthusiastic spare-time activity in existing functions and the fresh "best seller"
puts to sympathise with the half-hearted zeal of the average woman.
For four years, Mrs. Stockton has survived at St. Margaret's, depending upon the visits of associates
and the memory of an eventful life to surpass the days. Prominence in club task in her quicker
years has brought reward.

The History Club of Kansas City, Kansas, of which she was once a member, each week sends a member
to read to her and these are red letter days to this gallant, patient, tiny woman.
Mrs. Stockton started writing very young. When a tiny girl, behind in the township of Walden,
New York, she stole higher to the pulpit of the church and wrote in her pastor's Bible:
"I have not supposed the minister's eyes, And cannot describe his glance divine, For after he prays
he shuts them higher And after he preaches he shuts mine."
She was born in 1833 in Shawangunk, New York, and joined Kansas City in 1859, vibrant in Missouri
numerous years but bulk of the time in Kansas City, Kansas.
In 1892, she issued a limited edition of poems, "The Shanar Dancing Girl and Other Poems." committed
to Mrs. Bertha M. Honore Palmer, her ideal of the faultless breeding of courteous and lovely
womanhood. "The Shanar Dancing Girl" was first written for the Friends
in Council, a literary club of Kansas City, Mo. It has received the
encomiums of Thomas Bailey Aldrich, John J. Ingalls and others for
its beauty of expression and dramatic qualities. "Invocation," an
April idyl; "The Sea-shell;" and "Mountain Born" sing of the love
of nature. "In the Conservatory;" "My Summer Heart;" and "Tired of
the Storm" hint of anguish and unrest and longing. Then in 1886, "Compensation"
was written. A sudden ray of sunshine danced across the floor of the room, before which it grew brighter
and stronger until of and electrified its occupants in the midst of their work.
The sun! in chorus cried altogether, and rushed to the door to see if the omen be true. The ground
was soaking with moisture,the freshness and sweetness and merriness of earthiness of the scent
was felt. Nan cried, opening her mouth wide to to deep breath. Agatha gasped in ecstasy. 
Christabelcried
elegantly, Do my eyes deceive me and actually stopped raining and Jim expressed victory on
the doorstep.
The sun is coming out, clouds have rolled away, will be beaming, and have such a day as you have
not had for weeks past. If you had only listened to me, you would have been spared all your
misery.
Nothing of the kind done by you did . You told on my arrival that it looked `bad, and that it
was going to be a brute of a day, interrupted Kitty severely. Jim affected a convenient deafness.

All hands to the pumps, I'll set James to work to mow the lawn, and by the time it is cut and
swept and the sun has shone on it for a couple of hours it will be as dry. The paths will be
swept , put few planks across the water stagnation, will be as right as a trivet. Put on thick
boots, and set to work to undo all you have done this morning. There is no time to lose.
Willing hands made light work, it is difficult to find happy band of workers. Clad in a short
bicycling skirt Nan was wandering of the house,with snow-shoes covering her slippers. Jim's
cap stuck on the back of her head, was a sight funny enough to have cheered the most melancholy
of patients. She danced of triumph before her completed stall, her sisters held their hands
to their sides in convulsions of laughter. A lazy musical joined in with theirs laugh, a deeper
laugh, which could only have come from one person, Nan, hearing it, turned round prepared to
see Gervase Vanburgh standing before her. But, holding out her skirt on either side, to display
the huge cloth boots to the fullest advantage, she dropped him a curtsy told, "Pleased to see
you, sir! I hope you admire me!"
"I do!" said Gervase in his softly; and there was an accent of sincerity in his voice which brought Jim's
eyes upon him in curious scrutiny.He had heard so much of heir of the Mr Vanburgh, a word from
Lilias introduced to him eyed him narrowly and formed his conclusion. Fine face of good expression.I
have to admit him a decent fellow, if the nonsense were knocked out of him. Uncommonly pleased
to see Nan, too. This must be looked into. Then he was obliged to laugh again at the downright
fashion in which his sister demanded the reason of the stranger's
sudden appearance. 
Gervase raised his hand deprecatingly "What
have I come for?". To find whether I could be of any use. My uncle
was anxious to know if he could lend anything in the way of tents
or bunting or if you would like one of his gardeners to come across
and help your man. According to Ossian, nature's worthiest
opponents were the wisest of the wise, the bravest of the brave, and the finest class of warriors
ever to prevail against such a foe; their choice of weaponry and
attack would rival those of the ancient populations of Egypt, and
match what a future Ben Franklin would attempt with a kite.

Looking back no more in study, we prefer that the reader who still struggles with the subject
to take the time and contrast Moses, poised with a "rod" of Pharaoh, with the adventures of an
armed Fingal adverse to the Spirit of Loda at Hoy's summit.
 The rich of Frankfurt rarely dine after attending
cultural events, but when they do, they typically eat at the restaurants of the finest hotels. Generally,
Frankfurt is not open late.
On the Bockenheimerstrasse, one finds the Palmen Garten, a pleasant summer restaurant. Live music
entertains you if you choose it sit at an al-fresco table. Alternately, you may enjoy the fine
dining hall. The dishes are not terribly high class, but they are great examples of German
cuisine. In the summer when it gets hot, the restaurant is very pleasant. On holidays, diners
may be entertained by fireworks.  
If you prefer something a little
quieter, try Buerose. The hors d'oeuvres and the oysters are terrific. According to these view represented by
the Government of the United States, especially in particular transactions, proceedings and
in uninvestigated charges like bribery, attempted bribery, corruption, fraud, or misconduct amounting
to fraud, as per rule, the commission had not been allowed to use its name, the any other name of
its officers or members in related with any kind of diploma, certificate or other evidence of award.
According to the position of your company, as per announcement and quotations made through
a letter dated 8th November, the direction of the commission had been changed by the special
rule number 27. According to this new rule no. 27, the commission has granted permission to
make use the Commission or of any of its officers or members in or connected with any diploma,
certificate, or other evidence of award for any exhibit. But in advance, you have to submit
such proposed awards to the commission for its wholehearted approval as per section 6 provided by the
act of congress and rule 6 of article XXII of the general rules and regulations. These rules
are entitled to hold the effect of law until its modification or cancellation of the consent
of the commission.  On 30th November 1904, a formal acknowledgement of the receipt of the
fore going communication has been received from the exposition company also. There is no evidence
of reply has been made ever to the letter or the subject matter thereof on the merits. A formal acknowledgment
of the receipt of the foregoing communication was received from the Exposition Company on November
30, 1904. But at the same time, the Exposition Company was strongly supported through its records
and the silence of the officials such allegations there in contained of flagrant violation of the
rules and regulations in the selection and organization of the juries.  Also some of the charges
of fraud and corruption in connection with certain awards referred in the letter have not been
denied nor explained properly.  But as a matter of fact, there was a disagreement raised between
the National Commission and the Exposition Company. Such disagreement made in related with awards
has become known through public press. Consequently the files of the commission were quickly supplied
its letter from exhibitors in related with charging fraud and favoritism. Besides, they asked for
information as to the status of the wards in the event of certificates of award being issued
without the approval of the Commission. The situation was provoked by the fact that a concern
known as "The Official Ribbon Company". This is company was acting under a concession from the
Exposition Company. Moreover, it was disposing of ribbons certifying over the signatures of the
president and the director of exhibits of the Exposition Company that awards had been made to the
holders for the specific exhibits therein named.
 His mother,
who had always been of poor health, had become very sick with no hope of recovering. This made
her extremely worried, not for herself but at the thought of what would happen to her little
boy after she passed away. The situation was putting a lot of stress on her faith in God. But
through long prayers, peace returned to her soul and her faith in God strengthened. Before she
died, she became peaceful and content that though she herself would not be around for her
son, she was leaving him in the care of the Almighty God who would surely look after him very well.
After all, it is He who takes care of orphans and widows alike. We only have a few information about the life
of the eminent writer Tacitus. He served in the army as a subordinate of Vespasian and Tius.
He left to Rome in A.D.89 after attaining many honors in the state, with his wife who was the
daughter of the Excellen t Agricola. Emperor Nerva posted him as the Consul after his return from
Rome in A.D. 97.Though the actual year is not known, his death happened after A.D.117.But we
will be able to understand the personality and sentiments of Tacitus from his writings.
He was a person of virtue and honesty and he was very disappointed and sad about the fall of
the old republic but he does not refrain from hurting Augustus or Tiberius, whom he considered
as responsible for this.He was as powerful and disapproving as Juvenal.The writing style of Tacitus
was sad and desponding as if he had forseen the decline of his country.
He had his own identity in his writing style which was concise, obscure,
strong and above all which attract the attention of the readers.

Even though he does not possess the elegance and grace of Livy, the characters and descriptions
of Tacitus are more real and intense.
The biography of his father-in-law Agricola is one of the most delightful biographies.His explanation
about the Germans was a silent satire against the corrupt Roman State.The Historiarum Libri
give the full account of the history of his time which narrates the fall of Galba till the
death of Domitian and which describes the reigns of Nerva and Trajan. The Annales says the history
of Rome from the death of Augustus till the time of Nero but is not perfect. Many of his works
are not preserved.
A detailed written account upon the orator is also credited to this historian.Tacitus and Juvenal
are the two great personalities of Roman literature.
Another interesting writer who might have lived under Claudius or Tiberius wrote ten books about
the exploits of Alexander the Great.His successor whose name was C.Sueonius Tranquillus came
to Rome when Domitian was ruling to study rhetoric and grammar.
He was banished by Hadrian and we do not know how and when he died. He wrote about the lives of twelve
Ceasars which end up in Domitian. He had a good language and he portrayed every charcters with
every minute details. His writings throw light upon the manners of the Romans.
Many biographies attributed to Suetonius might have written by some other writers. He wrote some other
short treatises also.
Another writer L. Anaeus Florus wrote a brief summary of Roman history. He might have lived
under Trajan.   Justin wrote a history of the world.Aurelius Victor wrote the book Origo
Gentis Romanae. But only a smaller portion of it is preserved. The Scriptores Historiae Augustae
is a book which is a collection of writings of many authors who lived at different periods in
the empire.
Another writer namely Eutropius who served under Julian wrote a brief history of Rome which was writen
in a natural style.
The history of the empire from Nerva to the death of Valens, was writend by a Greek who lived under
Valens,Valentinian and Theodosius, namely Ammianus Marcellinus.  Most part of his work is lost.
Even though his style is entertaining there is no eminence in his
writing skill.  
The last one in the list of Latin historians is
Spaniard Orosius who was a christian presbyter. He pictured the Pagan
world while defending Christianity. All in all, the weak and defenseless are assisted by the
power and ability which sciences grants through conscience. These being said should be granted
entry to the right hand of conscience. Interference for the sake of human right is sometimes
mandated and often times dignified. Effectively if one stands with entire certainty of self and
goes the extra mile reassuring others and himself may actually warm the broad generalization of
the aggressor counterpart. It is the awareness of self power where ultimate strength is obtained.
Through obtaining this new perspective the likelihood for ones point to be clear and punctual
even if off opinionated and rational evidence is commonality. With the backing of scientific
research and theory, you may act and orally conjure idea in such a manner which is likely to
lead to placidity among parties, whereas, if the science is absent, you must not use the words
of the latter ideology which may be mandated at specific time and manner.
Difficult will be faced among those who are proficient in the art of self defense, but the advantages
to be gained are doubtless magnanimous.
A master of the sword, and by this I mean one who could use a variety of weaponry, who is decent
at hand to hand combat, is a sure threat to any opposition.
THE UBRELLA.
As a weapon of modern warfare this implement of science has not been served justly in the department
of combat respect.It has too often been put down with malicious tone and disdain, but it without
a doubt, even in the hands of one which is senile, this weapon of solid proportion may be the
cause for some serious damage. An umbrella opening with such damaging potential ceased the deadly
onslaught of the infuriated bull, and caused the kings and queens of the land to second guess
their presumably harmless danger? Has it not, when brought into action, stopped the gallop
of the orthodox equestrian fleeing with much speed and determination?
If this be true, there are plausible uses beyond those which the our present perspective offers,
it be be beneficial to ask how they can be brought to bear when a man, being a master of the sword,
or one who has graduated with honors from his class of martial arts, is attacked without anything
in his hands save the desperately humble umbrella.
It is indeed, of extreme high risk to go about such an operation, prodding a fellow creature in
the eye with the acute head of an umbrella. Once I knew a man who was attacked by many roughs,
and nearly losing his life through their pugnacious nature, in a a despairing effort made a desperate
thrust at the head of his assailant. The point of the umbrella penetrated the eye and entered the
brain, ad the man fell stone dead at his feet. I would only advocate such action when extreme
danger threatens-- as a last resort, in fact, and when you must determine who will be killed, you or
your... assailant.
There are a couple ways of using the Umbrella. Holding it as if you were holding a fencing foil--and
for this reason umbrellas should always be chosen with strong and straight handless-- for long
ranging thrusts when need at a distance, or grasping it firmly with
both hands, just as one would grasp a military rifle during a bayonet
exercise in military combat. As in such a case one has a deadly and
spectacular weapon for use against multiple enemies at close quarters. 4s. 6d.  Correspondence of Sir Isaac Newton and Professor Cotes, including letters of other
eminent men, now from the original in the library of Trinity College, Cambridge, published
with other unpublished documents and letters from Newton.
 This inundate is
temporary; the waters shortly subside into their commonplace conduit, and the trees one time
more emerge increasing out of terra firma, with the green mead dispersing
on all edges round them.

But a inundated plantation is a very distinct affair; rather alike
in feature really, but far grander.

Not a meagre spinney of trees along the bank of a little stream; but a district expanding
after the come to of vision,--a huge tract of primeval woods,--the big trees submerged to their
very peaks, not for days, neither weeks, but for months,--ay, some of them forever! Picture
to your brain an inundation of this kind, and you will have some concept of the Gapo.
Extending for seventeen century miles along the banks of the Solimoës, now broader on the
to the north, now extending more distant back from the south edge, this semi-submerged plantation
is discovered, its central nearly as unidentified as the crater-like caverns of the moon, or the
icy seas that gale or slumber around the Poles,--unknown to civilized man, but not entirely to
the savage. The aboriginal of Amazonia, crouching in his canoe, has pierced this water-land of wonders.
He could notify you much about it that is genuine, and much that is marvellous,--the last cited
too often spoke fanciful by lettered savans. He could notify you of odd trees that augment there,
bearing odd fruits, not to be discovered elsewhere,--of magnificent quadrupeds, and quadrumana, that
live only in the Gapo,--of birds glaringly attractive, and reptiles hideously ugly; amidst
the last the feared dragon serpent, "Sucuriyu." He could notify you, furthermore, of animals of
his own kind,--if they warrant the title of man,--who dwell relentlessly in the inundated plantation,
producing their dwelling on scaffolds amidst the tree-tops, transient from location to location
in bobbing rafts or canoes, finding their subsistence on fish, on the body material of the
manatee, on birds, beasts, reptiles, and bugs, on the stalks of gigantic water-plants and the fruits
of undescribed trees, on monkeys, and occasionally upon man! Such Indians as have penetrated
the huge water-land have conveyed odd tales out of it. We may give credence to them or deny it;
but they, not less than, are firm believers in most of the anecdotes which they have collected.
 

I said. "A jack-mer-lantern," said he. "And what is that?" I asked. "It's a sperit. I ceed dem
eberynite, an' when I go to kotch one dey ain't nobody." "Then you believe in spirits?" "Yes,
sar; dat I dus. When I pass Paradise Old Field I kin always see dem." "Have you ever been told
anything about the ball of fire and Jack-mer-lantern, as you call them?" "Yes, sir; dat I hab."
"Then let me hear what you have been told." "Yes, sir; Boss, I'se gwine tu tell you de God's trufe."
"Well, proceed." "Boss, I'm gwine to tole you dey tole me dat long time 'go dat a man by de
name of Pluter was come up dar in dat field wid a 'omumn, an' dat dey loss demselves, an' hab
neber bin seed since; and dat ebery nite wen you go by dar you kin see somefin. One nite as
I was gwine 'long I thort dat a ball of fire wus gwine tu hit me in de face. I axed who wus
dat; nobody said nuffin. I hit at it an' it turned to a Jack-mer-lantern." "And what was that,"
I asked. "I 'spec dat it wus dat man Pluter, an' de ball ob fire wus de 'omun dat wus wid him."
"And they are what you call 'sperits?' Then you are a natural born fool; if you do not shove this
boat along I will break your head with this pole."

"Boss, I shall always blebe in dem sperits."
It is very true that some very mysterious and unaccountable things were seen when passing Paradise
Old Field, by the side of the canal, by persons on their way to the Lake of the Dismal Swamp,
but in very few instances, and then only by nervous persons of diseased minds. You might travel
up and down the canal as often as you choose and outside of snakes and pole cats nothing would
ever appear. Do not let snake stories deter you from visiting this wonderful and beautiful place,
the Lake of the Dismal Swamp. As the boat was being driven along, the driver said: "Boss, did
I nebber told you about de big watermillion that Mars. Caleb Busby foun' near di place?" "No; let
me hear something about it." "Well, sir, I will tole you. One day as Mars. Busby was gwine tu de Lake,
an' wen he got rite here he ceed on de side ob de cunnel a big snake trien tu swallow a raccoon.
He tuk up sumfin' to flro at de snake, an' jes' den he ceed in de bushes a nale keg, an' wus
glad dat he foun' a keg ob nales.
 The two amusing imps giggled
and shook their heads with genuine enjoyment that this world could not give! Johnny slid off his
shoes and stockings and quickly put them on the infant Florry. He secured them from falling
off with a big cord. This added to their satisfaction.  "We can play cubby house in the stone
mound," softly spoke Florry.  "Hol' on, till I carry in this wood," said Johnny. "You better
hide till I get back."  Johnny promptly delivered his load with an eagerness he had never
shown before. 

"Mrs. Ashleigh presents her compliments," and went on to acknowledge me, civilly enough, for my appearance
the night before, would not accord me the agitation to echo my visit, and inclosed a fee,
bifold the bulk of the fee assigned by custom. I flung the money, as an asp that had stung me,
over the top wall, and tore the agenda into shreds. Having appropriately idly vented my rage,
a addled gnawing affliction came heavily down aloft all added emotions, airless and replacing them.
At the aperture of the lane I halted. I shrank from the anticipation of the awash streets beyond;
I shrank yet added from the accepted of duties, which continued afore me in the arid into which
circadian activity was so al of a sudden smitten. I sat down by the roadside, concealment my abject
face with a afraid hand. I looked up as the complete of accomplish accomplished my ear, and saw
Dr. Jones advancing agilely forth the lane, clearly from Abbots' House. He accept to accept been
there at the actual time I had called. I was not abandoned absolved but supplanted. I rose afore
he accomplished the atom on which I had built-in myself, and went my way into the town, went
through my allotted annular of able visits; but my attentions were not so affectionately devoted,
my annihilate so affably quickened by the afterglow of benevolence, as my poorer patients
had begin them in the morning. I accept said how the physician should access the sick-room. "A
Calm Intelligence!" But if you bang a draft on the heart, the ability suffers. Little worth, I suspect,
was my "calm intelligence" that day. Bichat, in his acclaimed book aloft Activity and Death,
divides activity into two classes,--animal and organic. Man's intellect, with the academician
for its centre, belongs to activity animal; his passions to activity organic, centred in the
heart, in the viscera. Alas! if the noblest passions through which abandoned we lift ourselves
into the moral branch of the abstract and admirable absolutely accept their centre in the activity
which the actual vegetable, that lives organically, shares with us! And, alas! if it be that
activity which we allotment with the vegetable, that can cloud, obstruct, suspend, abate that
activity centred in the brain, which we allotment with every getting howsoever angelic, in every
brilliant howsoever remote, on whom the Creator bestows the adroitness of thought!
CHAPTER XII.
But al of a sudden I remembered Mrs. Poyntz. I care to alarm on her. So I bankrupt my annular of
visits at her door. The day was again far advanced, and the assistant affably abreast me that
Mrs. Poyntz was at dinner. I could abandoned leave my card, with a bulletin that I would pay my
respects to her the next day. That black I accustomed from her this note:--
Dear Dr. Fenwick,--I affliction abundant that I cannot accept the amusement of seeing you to-morrow.
 He was startled by a sight that had been plaguing his dreams. He beheld
a trinket, the very same trinket, of which, twice he had dreamt in the past eight days. There
could be no doubt that this was a coincidence, but the astounding similarity was made no less
disquieting by such sober logic. The setting of the stone which adorned the corpse's neck would
surely be quite different than the trinket described by Violetta. If he saw the thing, he'd
be bound to recognize the distinction. He attempted to calm himself with this thought, and added
(for posterity, and perhaps knowingly in vain)"and even if the two
are identical, what would it matter?

It would be meaningless... meaningless"
 When Sukey saw the unique white
dress, she claimed to have no idea what it was made of.
"But I told you about the new silk yesterday." 
"You really didn't.
I haven't heard a word about it." What time of sadness and melancholy! Here in the midst of life,
we realize the disappointments, losses, painful diseases and heartbreaking disappointments,
hopes faded defeated and honors. Here are good reasons for filing of redeeming love. The God
who loves us to sympathize with us in our problems? We stand behind each step in the life of great
personal and national calamities. No time can be free from the fear that what we value most about
the land can be taken in the morning.
Trees and flowers grow to full height, fill your measure of time, and disappear. Beasts and
birds are rarely interrupted by the disease. Their lives are not angry with the expectation of
death, knowledge of the past and the present is all they have are not aware of the morning, live happy
in their ignorance and indifference, and in the sink past in depths, endless night, "which
are made to be taken and destroyed."
But this is not the history of man. He dies from the cradle to the grave - "suffers a hundred deaths
in a fear." He is aware of the dangers that beset. He covers everywhere. Death is a constant
destruction of their fondest hopes and causing him the most painful punishment. It breaks the
ties that bind heart to heart, and the dearest grants are cut, and the joys of the blessed
life wrapped in the gloom of death. All they had of earthly happiness in the past now is his
distress. Is it possible that life and death "walk arm in arm? Yes, but we are happy in the enjoyment
of one, another comes and takes up the mantle fear on all our earthly prospects. Sella this
volume blessed life, and I do not know where the light is a spring that brighten this gloomy
picture. Without this, man would be at a lower level of happiness of the beasts that perish.
It would be better than anything rational, without the religion of Jesus Christ and understanding
of the Bible. The Scriptures tell us that these things have a cause, which come from God's dealings
with his creatures, that the invisible hand that allows these tests is benevolent and wise. The
pain has its design and not is neither friendly nor evil. These things have a moral cause, are
the great reproach of God for sin. They are also a part of the discipline of a Heavenly Father, designed
to cooperate with the Gospel to bring back all those who are wisely exercised its abandoned
God.
The antidote to all these evils which resulted in death was the tree of life. When man sinned against
God put him in the tree of life. If he had stayed with him would
have been beyond the reach of the reason for life, and beyond the
holding power of the fear of death. Cecil Rhodes opened an Empire by controlling a black race; Jim Hill
opened another when he went west along the rails.

But the pioneers of the gold rushes started and empire of riches with no other help then their
own hands and hearts. She begain working at
Georgetown Hospital, spent a majority of her time in this location and it was the place of
her final visit; however, for six weeks, she visited several different medical facilities
in the Washington area. "I see that he has. If only I had told them that."

My experiences in a boarding-house served me well.

"That's typical of Lewis, to take her like that. I suppose he loves her. Even if he did love her,
it was still rather a grand and noble gesture. Has Montalli died?"

"I think so, but I'm not sure. Anyway, they divorced because of the abuse. Can you imagine beating
your sixteen-year-old wife? It's vile! All Italians are."

"And Lewis was in Mobile at the same time?"

"Yep. He fell in love with her. Imagine being barely eighteen and living through that! From what
the other ladies say, she seems more like a character from an ancient text rather than a flesh-and-blood
woman.

It's like she's not from this century."

"I bet she exaggerated her circumstances, just to see if they would believe her. I've seen
women bend the truth to the breaking, just for laughs. That game can turn around on you, though."

When
Mr. Lewis arrived at dinner, he brought me a little triangular note form his wife. The arrangement
of the words were gracious and elegant, and a little dove sealed the note. She thanked me
for bringing a "sweet remembranser" from her child, stuff like that, and said that she wanted to see
me tomorrow at the Oaks.

What struck me was how poor the spelling and handwriting was. It was below the effort of even the littlest
child in the poorest school of my town. She wrote of her "grate" pleasure, and my "truble." I expected
to meet a toddler at the Oaks.

The next day, Mr. Remington arrived to whisk me away in his carriage, to the gorgeous tulips
and expectant ladies of the Oaks. He was still handsome and brusque, and he explained to me
in a most informal tone that the day had been all set. First we'd have lunch amongst the tulips
at the Oaks, then travel to Hoboken after noon.

It was a magnificent day, one that I shall remember for a long, long time. At that time, Hoboken
was pretty as a picture and full of tranquil beauty. It was a refreshing change from the hustle
and bustle of city life. Secondly, the tulips were absolutely glorious: they are still the standard
by which I judge all other flowers. Nothing can compare to the large white cup they make. They
seemed as though they could fit at least a pint of ambrosia for the
gods.

I could see why Remington was so fond of them. He waltzed among them,
his bright fleet, taking in our delight.

"And each one is unique?"

"Fifteen
hundred types, and not a double in them."

Fifteem thousand varieties
could not have impressed me more. Each flower was more magnificent
than any robes of state, beautiful enough to pay a king's ransome.
I was breathless at the sight of fifteen hundred tulip heads nodding
in the breeze from the south.

Mr. Remington said with glee, "I'm
satisfied to see you taken with my tulips, Mrs. Prince. I will send
you as many bulbs as you'd like for your garden in Weston."

The garden
was the first thing we saw on our arrival, and now Mr. Remington led
us through large pines along a winding path to the great house. Although
the land was less than half an acre, it seemed to be a large estate.
The house gave the same impression of grandeur. It seemed to be a
two hundred year old Gainsborough cottage, rather than a two-year-old
upstart. However, Downing had already created miracles in my area.
And a few years before, Remington had got the architecture bug. He
had taken great pains to create -using transplanted trees, Virginia
creeper, and Boursault roses, a statley and antiqued cottage, which
looked as though it stood through the Revolutionary War. And that you are on the pointed
watch for those traitors and enemies who, by burglary, will look for to ruin our win."
[216] P.I.R., 849.
[217] Ibid.
[218] For the manuscript on which this declaration is based see p. 733.
[219] P.I.R., 849.
[220] Taylor, 81 AJ.
[221] "In respond to your cable about your dream of entering Manila after four hours of battle.
I have the respect to notify you for myself and the officers and military beneath my authority
that your dream will come correct as soon as the clash with the Americans begins, as we shall
proceed at any cost."--P.I.R., 849.
[222] On January 21, 1899, the leader of the fourth region, Caloocan, wired Aguinaldo that:
"Julian Santo, chief of the territorial armed force of Trozo, informs me that 400 local militia
of the Spanish military to-day included in his armed force. He lives in the walled metropolis, and
he needs to know your view upon the current condition, since the Americans desire to grip
them as prisoners or confine them in Bilibid jail."
(Indorsed, calligraphy of Aguinaldo:) "Inform the Filipino military
in the walled city allied to our reason that they should stay on fine
conditions with the Americans, in order to deceive them, and stop
their confining them, since the hoped-for instant has not so far arrived."--P.I.R.,
849.

[223] On January 20, 1899, a reporter wrote to one of the Insurgents overseas:
"In some places (in Manila) there have been fights with bolos among Filipinos and Americans
who wanted to slash down the proclamation of our leader while the people shielded it with their
bolos. They say that it amuses them to observe the Americans run when they draw their knives.
It is said that some 10,000 servants have moved out on hit. Several Americans have already vanished
by the technique of 'dukut' but it will not be correct to issue this in my view."--P.I.R., 980.
82.
[224] Taylor, AJ. 73.
[225] (Telegram received by E. Aguinaldo:)
"To the President of the Republic, Malolos, from the Provincial Governor of Manila, San Juan del
Monte, Jan. 29, 1899, 10.25 A.M.: I yesterday visited the armed highway in procedure of creation,
Santa Ana to Pineda. Tomorrow it will be adequately finished to allow passage, and in two days
following it will be completed. Considering opening one more military
street straight from Caloocan to San Juan. Want power.  
(Endorsed,
handwriting of Aguinaldo:) "Telegram acknowledged. I am extremely
pleased, and in the name of the administration I praise you and the
presidents of Santa Ana and Pineda with their populace for their hard
work for the public good. You are endorsed to open an additional military
way from Caloocan to San Juan del Monte, and I want you to attempt
to end it this week, as I am convinced you will."--P.I.R., 849. That villain, Slavata, owes me a life, he killed the son of my sister,
and today, I will take it back, even at the price of my life. Don't be afraid Mandeville, I
will protect you while I have my spear and armor.
I don't doubt it, Haggenhausen-- let us now charge together! It is not without my knowledge that
you go to battle. The Blue Boar of Mandeville never fluttered as of yet in the Wallachian
breeze, but wee may give it to the winds for too long. For Amalia, not me be the victory! Bring
forward the Red Falcon of Kalbs-Kuchen, let it inspire fear into the enemy's hearts, and proceed as
it dominates its prey.
The visors are down and lances are resting as we rush towards the hulans, who fought fearlessly.
 The lady's voice and flashing eyes showed that she was serious.

* * * * *
Our promenade lasted until the return of the colonel, who took an opportunity to present information
private hurt me that slaves would survive and perhaps that he sent for a surgeon from a neighboring
plantation, and some expressed fear that a delay or indifference on his part could lead to fatal
consequences.
"Christmas Time, you see, and perhaps he will not care about wine," said my host. I may add that
his anticipation was verified in part the result, "the doctor" did not appear until the following
morning. Thanks, however, a rough knowledge of surgery of the supervisor, helped by the excellence
of its constitution, "Timberlake" recovered. I will mention here, to reject the subject, that
"Hurry up John" was subsequently sold to a Louisiana sugar planter, a lot less terrible than
its export to a black than in Texas.
Within an hour of our return to the house, I partook of an excellent dinner and Christmas breaks
at the birds of the air, beasts of the earth, and fish of the sea gave tribute, and the best
European wines served as a appropriate accompaniment. Mass was, I served earlier than usual
so that we can participate in the event of the day, weddings Negro.
They were solemnized in a private small church in the back, that was
absolutely the huge live-oak I've ever seen, its branches fringed
with moss undecided, literally covering the small church, where, perhaps,
a dozen - --- family is buried - a few gravestones, half hidden by
lush vegetation refuse, marking their places of burial. 

"Miss Dwyer, what's wrong? Aren't you convinced I love you? Will you marry me?"

"No, sir," was her flat reply. Her inner response was outrage because of how he had approached
this. At first she thought she would accept his offer since she did love him, but even ten
times as much love wouldn't have made her accept him now, like this,
not even if it killed her. Before she finished speaking, she stood
and went into the car. The crape round his hat mask, I thought,
so instead of having it with me I approached her education after her health and because of her being
in mourning. He received a warm welcome in me and in an instant Caste abstract, I had realized.
His father, having notified me gone - was the death of about seven deaths per month, the past
and now was only Ash Farm - why should I not ice lobe ERN him sometimes, etc? From our conversation was interrupted
in call for dinner, quite happily complied, and Begg - I can not anyway the topic for my jungle - has
much more to justice is common in the capital dinner, even in times of capital Market Dinner
age. We were far behind Munter, and incredibly triumphant over stiff, snow had buried soldier
bandits while the gentlemen of Europe. Dutton is not in the ordinary participated joy. They
mock LAEBA throughout their period, but not words that are expressed.
"How do worry, James Dutton!" Rabta in to halt the closure of the cloud of smoke which later
involved at this point you completely. Looking at the place of wine ringtones Munte, round face
- like the sun through London in September to take - dull red glow
thick and suffocating atmosphere.

"All," Dutton said, "there has to successfully sold more than 200 quarters of wheat price in
two days you, Tom Southall.
"True, my son," said teacher Southall, the route in full, without satisfaction, jet rog against
him with surprising strength. "And I say, Jem, what I mean I tell ee gore I will applaud that guineas
more than I offered to go to the brown. "
"Yours! Ella, Tom, and that for ninety guineas!"
"Gie in his hand!" Rabta Tom Southall, jumping without the chair, stretching as high as in the
fist club to ask - Yes, says Lamb - through the table. "And here - here," he added with a laugh
that fans rejoice released into the fabric pocket-Task - "Here, at the time of DIBS. '
This operation with enthusiasm in the great surprise of the above our table, and strictly Dutton
questioned the reasons to separate from game without favorite mare.
"The truth is that friends," Dutton finally said, "I give up agriculture
Does, And '---- 
'Gie up farmin'!

"Bread of the dozen." Lord! " 
"Yes, not as I do. I buy Army of
the Commission. As the argument was
logical, it did not seem to me that earth provided anything without being worked on it. If
we wanted rice or tobacco, we had to ask that from the people who cultivated it.The old man was
surprised whether it mattered. Everlasting
debates of Lincoln and Douglas in 1858 were never put into a book until 1860, previously only available
in newspaper print. Newspapers are sometimes important in determining a date and place to set
a man. If, for example, a successful writer draws an inference from the fact said that President
Lincoln went to see Edwin Booth played Hamlet in Washington in February 1863, and if one finds
a consulting newspaper ads Edwin Booth Theatre, which has visited Washington during the same month,
meaning inference is destroyed. Lincoln General Scott paid a memorable visit to West Point in
June, 1862. Might, if I remember correctly, search books in vain to reach the exact date of this visit,
but in turn, newspaper files and you find that the president left Washington so at such a day,
arrived in Jersey City said at one point and made the transfer to other railroads that took him
across the station at West Point. Its time to leave West Point and at his return from Washington,
are also given.
The value of newspapers as an indication of public sentiment is sometimes questioned, but may
be hard put to doubt that the average man read the newspaper with feelings that he agrees. "I
asked the opinion of the newspaper," said Joseph Chamberlain in the House of Commons in May last
year. "I knew no other way to get the popular opinion." During the years between 1854 and 1860
daily journals have been a pretty good reflection of public sentiment in the United States.
Whenever, for example, have found the New York Weekly Tribune, read in part, a majority of Republicans
were sure to be had when election day came. Fact and opinion, if you knew contributors, and
editorial statements that they have the right to be weight than similar
public expressions, in any form.

You know Greeley and learn to recognize his style. Stoke,
North, an humble hamlet five meter. N.W. by Bath (best stat Kelston 1-1/2m.). The christian
church bears an abject hulk earlier Average. The hulk curve are broad-headed, without borders,
althogh the bema curve are aimed and belike kind of after that that
by the hulk. The
casual or uninitiated reader of Pound could find his work daunting and inaccessible due to his
extensive education and the frequency with which it appears in his work. One might say of Pound’s
Provencal poems that they rely too heavily on the knowledge of the reader and that true poetry
should come more naturally to its audience. But Pound does not require his reader to understand
his forms; he merely displays his learning in his verse. One of the most highly educated poets;
he originally intended to teach and studied romance languages in America. He also studied extensively
in Europe while writing a thesis on Lope de Vega which he eventually abandoned, along with hopes
of a Ph.D. and professional post, in order to continue his travels in Europe. It is clear from
his statements that Pound found American academia uninspiring and unappreciative art and creativity.
His life and work are a testament against the pedantry of which he is sometimes accused. His scholarship
comes from a deep appreciation and careful reading of poetry. His regard and exhaustive study are
shown in works like “Personae” and “Exultations.” Also clear in these works is his vital
interest and extensive travels in Provence, he seems to have nearly
consumed the history of the place and made it his own.

"Personae" and "Exultations” benefit from readers who also know this history and are educated
about culture, but do not require Provencal, Spanish or Italian to decipher. Much of what
we consider to be great literature requires great foreknowledge and insight into history to grasp
fully, most readers of literature do not possess this kind of education, but it does not bar
these works from being important or artistically moving. The criticisms of Pound stem from a failure
in preparation; most readers could no more relate the myth of Atys correctly than they could
give a biography of Bertrand de Born. Pound’s poems are accessible, but they require of
the reader a willingness to learn and a patience for the occasionally difficult but ultimately
rewarding.
Pound’s meter and language are also occasionally difficult and often unfamiliar. One can
see the influence of the modern in his work. The influence is not as overt as Mr. Scott-James
describes: "W. E. Henley, Kipling, Chatterton, and especially Walt Whitman"—it is difficult
to read Walt Whitman in Pound’s work. One can see at least two influences, Yeats and Browning.
Yeats’ vocabulary and attitude in "La Fraisne," are evident in "Personae:”  I wrapped my
tears in an ellum leaf And left them under a stone, And now men call me mad because I have thrown
All folly from me, putting it aside To leave the old barren ways of men ...  Mr. Pound has often
proclaimed an appreciation for Browning (see "Mesmerism" in "Personae"); Browning’s influence
appears in "Cino" and "Famam Librosque Cano." Though he is clearly influenced by other poets,
Pound’s true worth lies not in his homage, but in the variety and uniqueness of his meters
and forms.
Ezra Pound’s work has been labled vers libre in English, for better or for worse. Also called
“free,” the term loosely groups a wide range of styles and products. His use of this form
is explained by his position that poets should use the materials they are given. When one has the appropriate
material for a sonnet, one should craft a sonnet, but this only very rarely occurs. Pound’s
influence on this form is so great that until very recently it was difficult, if not impossible
to get free verse printed in any periodical except those in which Pound had influence. It is
because of Pound’s quality and devotion that it is now possible to publish free verse of
nearly any quality in almost any American magazine. There was no food to be had,
and the hope of finding any was wearing thin. Starvation seemed to be imminent, and none of
them knew what was to become of them. That night, with no fire, they convened in their tent, happy
enough just to chew on a few left over tea-leaves from their last
meal. House pretty whole,
knowing crisis at deal; Authorities Whips reconnaissance for Members. "Verify you what I'll do,"
says PENROSE Singer to AKERS-DOUGLAS; "I dislike garden-parties and that sort of feeling, but
as we shall be in a mess if Segmentation now rushed, I'll undergo cab, run up to Marlborough Refuge,
bring land few men; awkward, you jazz; entirety against grain; would rather be perfect here serving
you than mingling in glittering crowd; but, as the Governor says, tariff is our model; say
the statement, and I'll go off to Change Mall and fetch a lot hair."
"Vocalizer," said AKERS-DOUGLAS, wringing his accumulation, "you're a brick. You always consider
of the justice entity, and are willing to do it."
Politician paused to wipe away divide worn from his huffy glands by this evidence of self-sacrifice.
When he'd done it, superficial again at Translator'S briskly-retreating personage, couldn't
serve noting how sprucely he was got up; summer drawers; educator garment; the create "reefer,"
known in the Solicit, casting substance for the formal garment hair; observed him as he strode
onward, producing duo of chromatic kid gloves.
"Odd," said Pol, reflectively. "Poet never anticipated to go to Garden Company; downwardly here
to support me; sharp brake, and flavour of self-devotion, advisable to him to run over, and
see what could be finished; joyful risk to uncovering him, by exception,
in the suitable rig.

It would never bonk through for him to hie over to Marlborough Business to check the Contender
in his 'cigarette.' Prying, when I move to conceive of it.
Trust there's not writer in it than meets the eye."
But there was.
Speechmaking on Guard'S Amendment suddenly sealed; Segmentation rushed; stance of Government
unfavorable; AKERS-DOUGLAS uneasily on look-out for Singer and the Marlborough Business relief
organisation; but they came not, and on Dissension Governance blessed by wound of set and
eight votes. An minute after, PENROSE Author returned to Tap with chargeable visage; carefully
avoided AKERS-DOUGLAS; that able policeman too broken-hearted at the perfidy to be tempestuous;
"Patriarch'S pacifist didn't initiate him so," he said to himself; but all he said to Writer was,
"Pleasurable Set at Marlborough Business, I assume?"
"Yee-es," said Vocalist; "kinda; couldn't get place quite as shortly as I predicted."
Enterprise done.--Irish Votes in Supplying.
Weekday.--Regular set-to of Gaelic Members on Prince ARTHUR. MADDEN gallantly threw himself
crosswise body of his main, but got such bad pummelling retired into silence for pause of move.

What made it worse for Character was Chairman's judgment; pulled him up statesman than erstwhile
amid yelled cheers from Opposition. TIM HEALY on war-path; quotes TENNYSON with odd saltation;
represents Prince Character as language of Country Members, "You human not got the betray that businessman
the patch of VERE DE VERE."
Proceedings occasionally sparkly; colour a minuscule monotonous after primary cinque hours. Met Dynasty
hurrying off, humming to himself the air, "Motion to the Ceremony."
"Aren't you achievement to bracing for division?" I asked.
"No," said he.

"I mustered; strikes exclusive on the box; when you ask for it, see that you get it; hour additional
authentic. Human an central booking to-morrow start.
If you're waking COLMAN former, COLMAN archaeozoic, Mug dearest."
Stared at this fuzzy reproof; thought at primary he was mad or had dined. Then I remembered
that to-morrow, at City, he marries Shoot COLMAN.
Acting done.--More Gaelic Votes.
Thursday.--E pur si muove; that is to say, it faculty locomote; they'll all advise, in spite
of BRAMWELL. Writer, belike, the exclusive universe in the grouping that possesses the miraculous
longanimity needed to submit to having its movements obstructed by exerciser and enterpriser put
up across few of its corpus thoroughfares.
Oddly enough, they congregate globular congeries of Track Stations in the Northbound. To-day, ROSEBERY
in Lords moves Sec Datum of Saw fashioned to hit them swept absent.
BRAMWELL protests. "Talking," he said, "in canvass of over two century
fill who resilient in order constrained by the Pecker, I ask your
Lordships to disdain it." This too untold modify for Refuge of Lords.
That alleged sumptuosity of two hundred group should matter against
bathroom of the assemblage of Writer was a younger unnatural. BRAMWELL
kept his physiognomy laudably. Noble CHANCELLOR looked on admiringly.
"That's the man for me, Mug," he said. "If we could exclusive score
a Concern of Lords all BRAMWELLS, with me on Woolsack, we'd get Old
England erstwhile more a merry begrime." 
Intermission of Sanctuary,
notwithstanding, would not enter into humour. The matter did not end there only as soon as he left the stage he went
to the music room with the speed of the jet plane and encountered Cervetto and started abusing
like any thing. Why you old scoundrel. you must be..... Cervetto said,Mr Garrick whats the matter,what
i have done? What is it? Why you idiot with no brains then your boss--- Viol--at the movement
i had played with the audience-- tickled them like a trout and brought them to silence--you should
pat my performance so perfect it was,one may say a companion for
Milton's visible darkness.Mr Garrick it was not darkness Stupid fool--how
should a man make himself understand by a --answer me-- there was
a silence in the room?Yes it was -- calm as a pin drop silence.

At that time you extended your jaws and yawn? Sara,Mr Garrick-- if you can listen tome for a second.It's
the way-- indeed,Mr Garrick-- this is the way i capture audience, Mr Garrick anger cooled at this point.

The Italian flattery exactly contrary to the last line of epigram--the honey was tasted and sting
forgot.
The King and the Player.George third was at Weymouth, and strolled the town unattended. He was
enjoying his afternoon wandering on Elliston's Benefit when the shower(rain)came.He
went passing the Theater door. The empire of Cottius was prepared into a Roman
province by Nero (cf. Suetonius, Nero, 18), and it is incredible that any Roman author consequently
submitted to it as a empire.  It does look as if essential to include a few expressions about the
fictional virtues of Vitruvius in this article, and regarding Professor Morgan's visions as to the
general principles to be chased in the transformation.  Vitruvius was not a huge storybook public figure,
determined as he was to materialize in that temperament. As Professor Morgan has appropriately
said, "he has all the scripts of one new to masterpiece, to whom lettering is a hurting task."
In his hand the measuring-rod was a remote mightier execute than the pen. His stilted and arrogant
expression exhibits itself in the prologue to the diverse books, where his embroidered endeavor
to commence some impression of fashion into his monotonous lectures on the dignified philosophy
which should administer the behavior of the originator, or into the ordinary lists of originators
and writers on construction, is everywhere perceptible. Even in the more mechanical segments
of his job, a like cognizant endeavor may be perceived, and, at the same instant, a lack of
assurance in his capability to articulate himself in inimitable tongue. He circumvents episodic sentences,
uses only the simpler subjunctive manufacture, replicate the predecessor in relative clauses,
and, not occasionally, accepts a official tongue intimately similar to that of qualifications
and agreements, the fashion with which he was, obviously, most well-known. He ends each book with
a concise review, more or less a method, fairly like a sigh of reprieve, in which the person
who reads instinctively shares. At times his sense is vague, not because of grammatical mistakes,
which are reasonably little and inconsequential, but because, when he does endeavor a intervallic
sentence, he becomes mixed up, and discovers it intricate to disentangle himself.  Some of these
oddness and coarseness of appearance Professor Morgan intentionally replicated, because of his
confidence that a transformation should not purely replicate the
essence of a book, but should also give as obvious a image as potential
of the novel, of its novelist, and of the running of his mind.

The transformation is planned, then, to be accurate and precise, but it consciously evades any
endeavor to delicacy the tongue of Vitruvius although it were Ciceronian, or to present a sham
intuition of prominent fictitious value in a job which is impoverished of that quality.
 Assume that the flow is completely calm, it is
the same number of electrons flowing through the circuit every second. So if we know the duration
of the current implementation, we can see how much money is deposited each second.
The law says that if the money is deposited an amount equal to 0.001118 grams per second, so the
current is one amp. This is a small amount of silver, only about one thousandth of a gram, and you
know that it takes to make one ounce 28.35 grams. It is a very small amount of money, but a large
number of atoms. How many? Six thousand million million dollars, of course, because they are deposited
each electron of an atom in the current.
In my next letter will tell you how to drag us as batteries can give the electrons, so we must
be ready to proceed with more on the Audion.
LETTER 8
ELECTRON-MOVING-FORCES
(This letter may be omitted at first reading.)
DEAR YOUNG MAN:
I hope you have a pretty good idea that an amplifier: a flow of electrons in a certain percentage,
so that a flow of say three amplifiers: a stream with three more times over many electrons
pass each second.
In the third and fourth letters were found why a battery running electrons around a circuit driving. You
can also find that there are several different types of batteries. Batteries vary in its ability
to conduct electrons and is useful to have a way to compare.

We are measuring the electron's motion, force, or electromotive force, which each battery can
exert. To express the electromotive force and give the results of our measurements, we have a
certain unity. The device we use is called "V". 
The volt is defined
by law and are based on proposals by the same body of scientists recommended
amps in our last letter. They define it by saying how to do a certain
type of battery, and then say that this battery had an electromotive
force in a number of volts. You can buy a standard battery or standard
cells, as they are called, or he can make them for themselves. To
be sure you are appropriate, then you can send to the Bureau of Standards,
and the cells were compared to standard by the Bureau. Hercules was
considered as the supreme example of the Greek Hero at the end of the present book. He was the son
of Zeus and Alemena. She belongs to the same group with Antiope.
 Flacius Illyricus, named after Illyria where he was born
in Istria, and sometimes known as Matthias Flach-Franconitz was a prolific writer on some of the
most controversial issues in the fifteen hundreds. His main focus once he became a disciple of
Luther was on raising continuous disputes about religious matters, and it was noted that his
arguments were vigorous, aggressive and exaggerated. According to one German historian "he seemed to
have been created for an ecclesiastical Procurator General".

After he died in 1575 his friend Jacques Andreas admitted that really his Illyricus was the
devil's Ullyricus, and that in his opinion he was now "supping with devils"*
Hoefer, Nouvelle Biogaphie Generale, Art, Flach-Franconitz Matthias More Sophists certainly were little
troubled by philosophical questions, they were "agnostic," know-nothings, all they profess
to do was to learn some practical skills in a verbal or rhetorical character. They had nothing
to do with nature or value of ideals, they did not profess to say whether any goal or objective
in itself was good or bad, but having a goal or objective, they were prepared to help those they
have committed to acquire a qualification, which would be useful to achieve this objective.

But if a final theory or philosophy of life to be expressly stated or made by a nation or individual,
or can simply be ignored by them, there is always a certain philosophy or theory underlying their
action , and that philosophy or theory tends to develop to its logical
issue in action, where men openly admit it or not.

And negation theory of law or human nature which underlay (97) The practice had an effect sophistic
its logical and necessary about the social structure throughout Greece, a relaxation of the
bonds of religion, respect and affection family, patriotism, the right man. Thucydides in a
well-known passage (III. 82) describes the prevailing state of thinking in his time, which was
distinct from that sophistic teaching "the common sense of words has been turned on to pleasure
men at Bravo crazy was considered most desirable friend, a man of prudence and moderation style
was a coward, a man who listened was a good reason-for-nothing naive. He had to leave her. Selina, amazed by her unusual boldness, begged
him not to leave and to tell her about Switzerland and herbs, and
the Apollos butterfly and about the valleys for gold beetles During this time, many publicly stated their distaste for slavery and their desire
to see it ended. However, they failed to act on these sentiments time and time again. Laws passed during
this era favored slave-holders over their abolitionist opponents.
The event considered by many historians to be the turning point leading the United States toward
its Civil War and the eventual abolition of slavery was the murder of Rev. Elijah Lovejoy in
1837. He was shot while trying to safeguard the printing press he
used to publish the Alton Observer, an abolitionist newspaper.

 In his first visit to the Keys,which are titled Lemul Gullivers Travels into Several
Remote Nations of the World,Compendiously Metodized, For Publick Benefit: With Observations and
Explanatory Notes Throughout (1726),Curll praised Swift as owning polite conversation and he
also noticed that the people are more excited about the Travels than
Robinson Cursoe The
Governor then spoke. With his secretary and scribe present he began to formally ask each Chief
his name and over which territory he ruled. There were as many as 50 Caciques and/or Chiefs
in attendance. 1861. A quite intriguing letter was written to Col. John Laurens from
his father Henry Laurens, second president of the Continental Congress. It was written on
Aug. 14, 1776 in Charleston, S.C. and is currently published from the authentic letter. It possess
a passionate plea for Emancipation, and is tinged with contempt of england for promoting the
slave-trade in America. THE REBELLION; ITS LATENT CAUSES AND TRUE SIGNIFICANCE. In Letters to
a Friend abroad written by Henry T. tuckerman, New York: Jas. G.
Gregory. 1861 I will tell of one instance.
A student named M. Leboullenger met with M. Hassenfratz and had a
talk with him one evening. When he came back to school in morning
he told us about it. We
trust without a doubt that the Bible contains all knowlage needed for redemption, and the word
of god is preserved within its texts.We also asume that,under the surrface of these scriptures
and texts is a divine message that speaks to our inner Chritian and influenses these writters;these
truthes create a moral faith that is unshakable in practice, affection and overall faith, with
the exception of those who continuously seek out evil and pretext
of their disbelif. The Kantean rats were
not cognizant, I believe, when Klopstock spoke thus, of the demise that had struck them: and even
today those animals infest the old house, and steal the bread from the children,--if the old
concepts of Space and Time, and the old theories of religious verities by way of the understanding
and speculative reason, must be called such. Whether or not these are their true spiritual
existance, or the necessary protector and vessle of it, is perhaps a question.
 Up to this, be that as it may, the creator has confirmed nothing.
The being of the fiery breakout-fog and cores are suspicions just, and the route by which he
attempts to elucidate rotatory movement is plainly mistaken. The accumulation of matter adjust the
cores by attraction could have no such tendency; no something greater than an ideal adjust could of itself
have a tendency to move about its support, or a falling stone to veer off from its vertical
course. Attraction could undoubtedly clamp the particles of matter, but its tendency and whole activity
is towards the core; it clamps them no more on one side of the line of their bearing to the
middle of might than on whatever possible side; and henceforth no sidelong or rotatory movement
could follow. No such impact could take after the conditions stated, and a whole lack of awareness
is sold out of the laws of mechanical theory. In the whirlpool and the whirlwind the gyration
is brought on by the liquid going, not to the inside, but through
it and far from it; in the whirlpool downwards through the place of
passageway, in the whirlwind upwards to where the vacuum has brought
on the fast collection.

LAPLACE was too capable a mathematician to submit these basic bumbles; he did not collect to
elucidate turn by inapplicable laws, but underestimated that the sun rotated upon its pivot,
and thence conveyed a relating movement to the figures flung from its surface. Yet our creator
has tried to development past his instructor, and in this way has indicated his obliviousness
of material science by a grievous oversight. Right now we may stop, without emulating the ulterior
strides by which the solar framework is made to develop out of warmed vapour. Having got pivot,
however by an outlandish technique, the creator falls into the delineation at present given
of the speculation of LAPLACE. The revolution of every core or sun adjust its hub prepares
radial drive; that might, by refrigeration, builds past the centripetal drive of gravity; in
result rings are framed and withdrawn from the surface, whose unequal cognizance of parts generally
creates them to break into split masses or planets, sharing of the movement of the figures
from which they have been split, and these primaries in their turn coming to be centres of attraction
and divergent compel, hurl off their secondaries, or moons.

In this method the solar framework and alternate frameworks upon a comparative arrangement
of game plan, it is guessed, would have been shaped. As per the creator the generative technique
is still in advancement, and newfangled worlds are in course of being flung off from late
suns in the restrictions creation. The proposed undefined stars on the external limits of space,
of fluctuating shapes and brilliance, are supposed to be the centres of brand new frameworks
in contrasting stages of improvement, such as tykes of many sided
advances and development in a various house.

So much is shrewd and
easily communicated. As
humans, while waiting for a better definition, let us define truth as--"a statement of the
facts as they are." 
I assume that if Pilate had only 6 months
to be taught the truths of logic, he would have definitely come to
this logical conclusion. "yes".
exclaimed!
"And you won't talk with me. Wil you?"
" If you dislike it. And now, "he said, "that I have undergone to all these hard conditions,
will you agree with me to raise you?"  He took her and raised up in the air; and she was
trembling like anything and shivering. He held her a moment; she protested with sorry, and he
let them go for ever to any where.
"Farewell, Agnes!" he said. "I am going. Never we see again."
She raised both her hands and pressed the sharp cross to her bosom, but made no answer.  
"Your
wish will be done," he continued. "Immediately when I leave you,
your grandmother will come to you, and the people who brought you
here will through away you to the high-road. For me, since it is your
will, I part here. Farewell, Agnes!" "Researches about Atomospheric Phenomena" written by Forster noticed
several weather predictions by plants.Chickweed being one that when the flower expands freely
there is no rain for a long time,when the flower is half closed the weather will be showery
and when fully closed the weather will be rainy. This makes the Chickweed
an excellent way to predict the weather.

Siberian sowthistle predicts rain the next day if the flowers remain
open all night. Once the congregation he preached to tried to get
the pastor to preach to them again but if he couldnt would he pray once more with them. However
he wasnt gone from home very long.He wrote about being not ready for that paticular evening
and that he spoke on Psalm 51:12,13 and that God was very present with one crying out then another
in extreme agony The preferred way of doing it, as all females agree, is hand
them off to a person who is traveling to some very far away place, otherwise he'll pursue and
return them in victory. This affinity for the antique is a rare trait in males. This is not applicable
to different object -- other than cheese and lounge chairs and certain varietes of diversions
and potables. When dealing with hats, footwear, and pants, its something like being crazy.
Occasionally, this can be applied to tuxedo vests and bow ties, however one of its biggest aggravations
(top that bit of vocabulary, Irvin) in the subject of night shirts.

 

We are not capable at the current instance to fix these limits, but
our eventual purpose will be to decide and fix such restrictions for
the condition.

"With suggestion to the quantity of discard, time of holding in ladle, dimension of nozzles,
and additional such facts of make or equipment, we are of the view that the bodily and chemical
tests necessary must be arranged, and that we should see that the substance submitted for receipt
meets the given tests. We should not read out to the manufacturers the quantity of harvest
which shall be detached from the top of the ingot, as this should differ with the concern and
occasion consumed at the different mills. The railroads should not be asked to get something
but sound stuff in their rails. The mills can provide such sound stuff if the suitable concern
and adequate time are in use during the manufacture of the ingots. Information derived from
the tests being prepared at the Watertown Arsenal shows absolutely that sound rails cannot be
finished from unstable ingots, and that, therefore, the major necessary in securing a sound rail
is to initial secure the sound ingot.
"We advise that the current Specifications for Steel Rails be withdrawn from the Manual of Recommended
Practice of the Association, as no longer representing the modern state of the art.
"We present with this, as Appendix 'A,' a form for qualifications. It will have to be amended from
time to time as we obtain more information on the topic."
The qualifications referred to above be customized and presented at the Meeting in Supplement to
Bulletin No. 121, of March, 1910, and in this finishing form are attached hereto.  These specifications
do not symbolize the job of any one Society or the labor of any one Committee, but are the
outcome of every job of the diverse Societies, as the members of all are so interwoven that no
matter what labor is completed in any one Society, or by the Committee of a Society, has extremely
naturally and luckily been passed into the others.
At the Chicago Meeting these stipulation were acknowledged with no change, and this is extremely
strange and shows how usually acceptable they were, as the members of every Rail Committees
were there at the Meeting. The major points in this requirement were discussed and settled upon
by the members of the Committee and the Rail Committee of the manufacturers who have co-operated
with them in this job.  
In the subject of Rail Sections, the Rail
Committee of The American Railway Engineering and Maintenance of Way
Association has not arrived at some exact conclusion. It might not surprise anyone, if I added
length to my chain by a link or two, and in an age of relaxed discipline, indulged my notions.
If that was permissable, maybe I could (unintentionally and without unforgivable trespasses)trust
my own cautious and hard working, though rather dull investigations to their insightful, sharp
eyed authority. But the freedom of today is highly valuable. It shouldn't be corrupted by abuse.
Only a chosen few, who at birth inherit it as a representation of democracy are worthy of it
and can claim ownership. They leave nothing at all, to the outcasts of the plebian race.
 

At the House of Durham,the nuptials were commemorate with splendor rites,the princely residence
of the Earl of Northumberland,at the end who appears to have been particularly,as got celebrated
but two months previous to the death of Edward VI.who was dangerously sicke, being unable to attend,gave
costly gifts as marks of his formal permission.At the same time,Three marriages, held, as per chronicler
Stow.
Footnote 3: the Duke of Northumberland's fourth son,Lord Gilford married Lady Jane who was the
Duke of Suffolk's daughter,whose mother was alive at that time,she was daughter to Mary, King Henrie's
sister,who got married to the French king, and after to Charles, Duke of Suffolke.otherside,the
Earle of Pembroke's eldest son married Lady Katharine,who was duke's second daughter.And Martin
Keie's gentleman porter got tie up with the third daughter of the Duke of Suffolke,mary. And
Lord Hastings,Earle of Huntington's son,married, youngest daughter to the Duke of Northumberland,Katharine.

Durham House, which occupied the covering space of ground on the southern side of the Strand,now
occupied by Adelphi,the stately pile of buildings was erected, according to Stow,[4] in the
reign of Edward III., by Thomas de Hatfield, created Bishop of Durham in 1345. Pennant,[5] however,
but upon what authority does not appear, traces its foundation to a period prior to the abovementioned,
that of Edward I., he said it was erected by Anthony de Beck, patriarch of Jerusalem and Bishop
of Durham, but again renoved by Bishop Hatfield. Tonstal, the then bishop,exchanged Durham House with
Henry VIII in the year In 1534,and created "Cold Harborough,mansion in Thames Street,and got converted
by into a royal palace. During this period,a famous tournament,was held at Westminster commencing
on "Maie daie," and continuing on the five following days,after which, says Stow, "the challengers
rode to Durham Place, where they kept open household, and feasted the king and queene with her
ladies, and all the court.In the reign of Edward VI., a mint under the direction of Sir William
Sharington.was established at Durham House by the ambitious Thomas Seymour.
This mansion was accorded on the princess Elizabeth brother Edward
VI, during her mid life. when it became the residence of the Earl
of Northumberland, and the scene of those important transactions gave
a strenuous effort to relate. after Elizabeth died, Sir Walter Raleigh,
to whom the mansion had been given by that queen, was obliged to surrender
it to Toby Matthew, the then Bishop of Durham,result made the reversion
granted to that see by queen Mary, who regarded the previous exchange
as a the stealing of anything consecrated to the service of god.

In the year 1608, the owners of Durham House, says Strype were old, ruinous, and ready to fall,
and very unsightly in so public a passage to the Court of Westminster," were collapse and a building
called the New Exchange erected on their site, by the Earl of Salisbury. It was built partly on
the plan of the Royal Exchange; the shops or stalls being principally occupied by miliners and
sempstresses. It was inaugrate with great state by James I., and his queen,"Bursse of Britain.

In the year 1640, the estate of Durham House was purchased of the see, by Philip, Earl of Pembroke
and Montgomery, for the annual sum of 200l., when the mansion was collapsed, and numerous houses
erected on its site; and in 1737, the New Exchange was also wreck to make room improve further.

the whole estate was purchased of the Earl of Pembroke at the end of last century, by four brothers
of the name of Adam,also named as the Adelphi, from the Greek word brothers, has erected the
whole building.
 "I've made up my mind. I'm not having a birthday
this year!"
"You can't stop a birthday, you know."
"Yes I can!" I said angrily. "It's mine, and if I decide I don't want to have a birthday this year,
nobody can make me do it, not even you!"
"There you go, acting selfish again."
"It's not selfish! If I want to deprive myself of a birthday, nobody's
going to stop me!" The refreshing
mini-story aims young female reader. The author intends to address the unhappy and irritating responsibilities
in life. The story made these responsibilities essential and necessary in life and request
the girls' assistance.
 How does beauty effect
the human spirit? Is it found in the perfect works of God? Or in the humble imitations of an imperfect
human artist?
 

As soon as he saw me, his expression, which was already depressed, changed to actual anger.
If I were a tame animal who had suddenly attacked him, he could not have displayed more wrath.

I had been extremely polite in all of our regular meetings since his arrival in London, as was necessary.
Now, however, though I wanted desperately news of Di, I didn't dare attempt to pry it from him,
after that glare.
 The ladies related to the latter were taken care by the white men.
The story wasn't much different for the white women also. They, at times, enjoyed the freedom
of being with muscular, coloured men. The writer also has specified about the white men, as
they seldom married, since the life with their slaves or the coloured women was fancied. 
Evem
after generations, the story remained the same, but the social living patters. Evans perspective
based on his travel in 1818 through this country was interesting. He noted out the co-existance
of Quadroons, mulattoes, Samboes, Mustizos , Indian, and Negroes in the same society.
Some of the peculiarities because of the evolved genetics were pointed out, like a negroe in
perfect white skin. The country hasnt seen such a change in her ages yet. The struggle to
overwhelm in power among the diversities was eminent and that was what happened.
The second world war between England and the US was actually a thunderbolt over the administration
Claiborne as the dissimilarity in colours and ethnics were in a tug
of war.

Being in a hotspring of capturisim, Louisiana was the hotspot. Englan and US had their own stragetical
advantage over Lousiana. England was trying to weaken the US by handing over Lousiana to the Spanish
government who were greedily waiting at the borders of Texas.
 A person wonders how much this work
has been changed by the adoring translator, but unfortunately we don't know the Scandinavian
language. This novel, however, possesses some remarkable writing, whether it is descriptions of
nature or of human life. One of the most memorable parts of this novel is the fate of Steffen-Margaret.
Mrs Howitt, who translated "The True Story of my Life," draws attention to this character and
informs us that it is based on a person whom Andersen knew somewhat towards the beginning of his career.
She points out the detailed section in the novel, but the translator of the Autobiography and
of "Only a Fiddler," might have found a better way to convey the connection between the novel
and the author's life. The two characters discussed have no similarities except that they both belong
to a lower class of society. The young girl mentioned, nothing is told except that her father
visited her once a week for tea, and dressed in a tattered blue coat; the point of the story
is, that later when Andersen rose to a higher class of society, he met the father with the tattered
blue coat in a fancy bar and he was an unremarkable old man sparkling with orders.
Christian, the protagonist in the novel, without much life experience,
first arrived to Copenhagen.

While his ship was anchored at the port, it was visited by some ladies, one who catches his eye.
She must be a princess, or something similar, if not an angel. The next day he locates her house,
sees her, tells her about his life, his hopes and dreams; he is sure that he has found a powerful
patroness. The lady smiles at him, and with a pat on the head tells him to leave after offering
him some cakes and sweetmeats. This is just what Andersen would have done in real life at
this age. In the Autobiography there is a very similar scene.
 My companion on this walk came from Syracuse and we approached a guard post. The guard and my fellow
walker made faces at one another and I would normally have thought nothing of this. However,
on this occasion I took special notice because I was reminded of some of the things that had
already happened.
 Like the vast majority of the additional southern tribes,
the Natchez fought only when it was necessary, yet they were peaceful compared with the Five
Nations. The Natchez tribe had a form of sun-worship resembling the tribes of Mexico, and in
additional ways their ideas were similar to those of the people farther south. For example
the tradition of a chief‘s passing to the great beyond, his wives were killed. In times of
distress the parents frequently offered their children as sacrifice to get them back in good
graces with the Gods.

Many characteristics of the Natchez as well as other southern tribes seem to indicate that they
had in earlier times possessed a civilization higher than that which prevailed when the white
man came. The Five Nations, to the contrary, apparently represent an energetic people who were
on the upward path and who could have achieved great things had the whites not interrupted
them. The southern Indians bear a resemblance to people whose best days were past, for the mounds
which are plentiful in the Gulf States appear to have been built primarily in pre-Columbian
days.

The objects of art which were found, such as the extraordinary wooden mortars found at Key Marco
and the embossed copper plates found elsewhere in Florida, point to a more highly developed artistic
sense which was no longer evident by the time the white man arrived.

It is most interesting to see the fashion in which climatic energy seemed to give the Five Nations
a marked superiority over the tribesmen of the South, while agriculture tended in the opposite
direction. There has been a great deal of discussion as to the part played by agriculture among
the primitive American tribes of Indians, especially in the northeast. Corn, beans, and squashes were
an important element in the diet of the Indians of the New England
region, while farther south potatoes, sunflower seeds, and melons
were a few of their many articles of food. I have discovered a poem that Napoleon wrote about Corica when he was young.
Although some parts still remain preserved in "Les Annales de l'Europe," for the most part,
Napoleon attempted to destroy every copy of the poem that existed and frequently bought copies
for the sole reason of destroying them. In fact, there is likely not a single copy that exists
today.
 Perhaps:

Quietly, David climbed the stairs. There was possibility that the
murderer was inside the house. But nothing was found even with a close
search. He came near the dressing table and pulled out the jewel drawer.
To his surprise, the spare key was gone. This was something noticeable.
 The principal materials of which they are built are limestone,
granite, marble & bricks, & terra-cotta of various colours. The city hall, the post-office &
the court-house, standing in a row, & each occupying a separate block along E. Fayette Street
in the exact centre of the city, are one of Baltimore's most imposing buildings, & all of them narrowly
escaped destruction by the great fire. The city hall, done in 1875, in the Renaissance style, consists
of a centre structure of one storeys surmounted by an iron dome 260 ft. high, & five connecting
wings of one storeys surmounted by a mansard roof; the entire outer facing is of white Maryland
marble. The post-office, done in 1890, is built of Maine granite.
 But things became sober when the
entire crowd attempted to pass all together through the booking-hall doors. Speedwell sprained
a pastern and Tiny Tim continued a severe kick on the fetlock. Both will require a fortnight's
rest before they can be raced again.
 

The entire atmosphere seems to be getting heated up, and perhaps vaguely and dimly unlimited
extension to the surrounding. Sea and land together might be dark and confusing, if only because
of the initial chaos and the emerging light as well as darkness seemed to be still undivided,
gradually progressing until the morning, completed the separation. Stars disappear, and the
shades seem to merge. Forests, but which now seems black, dark and gulfs that are bottomless,
from which the ray is not reflected in the shape or color displays, the new creation rises
seem to appear, to life and beauty that will increase the radius. The scene continues to expand, and
the horizon appears to expand and extend itself on all directions, until the sun rises in east
and his plastic ray complement awesome scene. All affect the spell, and it is difficult to believe
that still we are on this earth. Senses, that are not accustomed to those objects, are confused
and upset, and it is not until sometime after that, they are able to distinguish and judging them.
Living the sun is shown rising from the sea, huge pieces of intervening land and sea; various
islands are appearing under your feet, when you look down the entire map of Sicily, and you can
trace each of the river through all the windings, form the source and to its mouth. Vision
is completely unbounded everywhere, and there some object in the field of vision to disrupt
it, so that vision is a place lost in the vast and it is quite clear that, if it is the incompleteness
of our bodies off the coast of Africa and as well in Greece should be found, because they are
surely above the horizon.  -- by Time's Telescope.
-------------------------
GARRICK'S MULBERRY CUP.
A Mulberry-tree flourished in the garden that’s attached to a new location, which was planted
by Shakespeare himself, and when Macklin and Garrick visited Stratford in 1742, they regaled over
the venerable branches of Sir Hugh Clopton, who, rather than pulling the new location according
to Malone argues, restored it, and did all he could do in his power to ensure its preservation.
Rev. Francis Gastrell bought the building, Sir Hugh Clopton heir, and is sickened with the
hassle of showing the tree to many visitors, which caused in pulling down the this beautiful and
interesting memory of Shakspeare, due to the great shame of his neighbors, who were so outraged
at his behavior, that they shortly rendered the place, in revenge, so unpleasant for him to
stay in it. That's why he had to quit it, and wood, has purchased a carpenter, was in retail
trade and also cut out into various relics.
List of property late David Garrick, Esq. has sold on May 5, 1825 cup detailed as follows: - "Lot
170, original cup carved out of Shakspeare's mulberry-tree, that was presented to David Garrick,
by Mayor and Corporation about Jubilee at Stratford-on-Avon, also
lined with silver-plated with cover, over a number of mulberry leaves
and fruits, including silver plated with gold.

"
This relic will gain more value never changed the fact of its possession of owners after Garrick
was with it September 1769, and 1825 during nearly about three score years, most of which it
is virtually locked up the publicity. Tree was cut down approximately in the year of 1756, and
could be at least 140 years old. It seems Mulberry tree was first planted in England around 1609.
It's not a small unit, at that time Garrick was the relic of the immortal Bard, he lived in
Southampton Street, as shown in the letter he wrote to the Mayor and Stratford’s Corporation,
to return thanks to the fact he was elected Burgess Stratford-on-Avon and the residence of
another owner, Mr. J . Johnson (who purchased it for 127l. 1s.,) spent in the same street for about
sixty years.
The cup itself is very clean and beautiful form, the plain, but good taste, and wood prettily
marked. Mulberry cup was also celebrated ballad, which begins: "Behold this fair goblet, '&
c. Garrick is sung by the Jubilee cup holding her hand.  G.W.
------------------ ALL NATIONS CUSTOMS AND MANNERS NO. X.  -----------------
THE GREEKS. Once the Caliph
Haroun el Raschid (who had been the actual buddy from the excellent Charlemagne, ) amused Ebn Oaz
from their courtroom within the caliber of jester, he or she preferred him or she eventually, within
the existence from the Sultana as well as just about all the woman's fans, to create a reason
even worse compared to a criminal offense it had been meant to extenuate: the actual Caliph strolled
regarding, awaiting an answer. Adjust an extended temporarily stop. Ebn Oaz skulked at the rear
of the actual throne, as well as pinched their highness within the back. The actual trend from
the Caliph had been unbounded. "I plead a lot of pardons of the Majesty, inch stated Ebn Oaz,
"but WE believed it had been the woman's Highness the actual Sultana. inch It was the actual reason
even worse compared to criminal offense; not to mention the actual jester had been pardoned.* *
* * *ACCOUNT AS WELL AS REIMBURSEMENT.Frustration in the theater is really a poor point: however
the supervisor coming back entrance cash is actually even worse. Sheridan, that recognized expert
emotions about this topic within the majority of severe levels, is at the actual routine associated
with stating he might provide phrases towards the chagrin of the conqueror, upon viewing the
actual fresh fruit associated with their wins grabbed through him or her; or even the actual
miseries of the divided minister, ended up within the second, whenever he or she believed the
actual cupboard from their whim; or perhaps a felon hearing an extended winded sermon in the regular;
or perhaps a borrower simply dropped to the paws of the dun; however, he in no way may find phrases
expressing the actual sensibilities of the supervisor required in order to disgorge cash as soon
as used from their doorways."Fund, inch states this particular skilled decoration from the artwork
associated with residing through a person's senses, "fund is a superb term; however, the re-fund
may be the really most detrimental within the vocabulary. "Monthly Journal.** * * *COURTROOM SQUABBLES.Mr.
Crawfurd, within their Embassy, explains the next ridiculous picture as a result of the misconception
between your sovereign associated with Birmah as well as their ministers: --"The ministers yesterday
documented towards the full the actual improvement from the settlement.Their
majesty had been extremely indignant, stated their self-confidence
have been mistreated, which right now, with regard to the very first
time, he or she had been created familiar with the actual situation.He
or she charged the actual ministers associated with falsehoods, malversations,
as well as a myriad of accidents.

Their discomfort didn't result in simple phrases; he or she came
their Dà, or even blade, as well as sallied on in search of the actual
problem courtiers.

These types of required in order to instant trip, a few jumping within
the balustrades that train within the entrance from the Corridor associated
with Target.

However, the higher quantity getting away through the step that leads into it; as well as within
the misunderstandings that went to their own work, (tumbling mind more than pumps, ) 1 along
with an additional. This kind of regal paroxysms tends to be fairly regular, as well as, even though
went to along with the substantial surrender from the kingly self-esteem, tend to be usually
bloodless. The actual past did full had been much less susceptible to these types of suits
associated with frustration compared to their existing majesty. However, he or she additionally
from time to time didn't remember themselves. For the near associated with their rule, so when
on the pilgrimage towards the excellent forehead associated with Mengwan, the situation of the
explanation happened, that was referred to through a good Western guy, themselves existing, as
well as among the courtiers. The actual full experienced discovered something flagitious, which
may not have access to already be very hard. Their frustration flower; he or she grabbed their
spear, as well as assaulted the actual fake ministers. These types of, except for the actual
Western, who had been not really a celebration towards the offence, fled tumultuously. One hapless
courtier experienced their pumps tripped upward within their trip; the actual full overtook
him or her, as well as injured him or her somewhat within the leg from the lower-leg together
with his spear, however, required absolutely no further vengeance. inch** * * *LULLABY.SHAKSPEARE,
within Titus Andronicus, states,"Be on to all of us, because is really a nurse's tune Associated
with Lullaby to create the woman's girl in order to rest. Inch up THE discovered commentator
provides all of us exactly what he or she facetiously phone calls the lullaby be aware about
this."The action-word in order to lull, the way to perform. Lightly, which is associated with
the actual Ancient greek [Greek: laleo], loquor, or even [Greek:
lala], they actually seem produced by the actual seaside from the
ocean.

The actual Roman healthcare professionals utilized the term lalla, in order to peaceful their
own kids, plus they feigned the deity known as Lullus, who these people invoked upon which event;
the actual lullaby, or even melody by itself had been known as through the exact same title.
"-- Douce. Lullaby is meant the contraction with regard to Lull-a-baby. The actual Welsh tends
to be famous for his or her Lullaby tunes, along with a great Welsh health professional, having
a satisfying tone of voice, may be occasionally discovered much more soporific within the baby's
room, compared to midwife's anodyne. The actual in contrast results associated with Swift's
tune, "Here all of us increase, upward, upward, inch and also the smile-provoking tune associated
with "Hey diddle, diddle. Inch ejaculated multis aliis, tend to be as well nicely considered
to be enumerated or even problematic.
 The eyes of the greatest princes
turned to him. In these distant parts of its domain, we have been happy influences of his reign
happy. " He was the darling and the protection of his people, the great support of renewed
interest and the arbiter of Europe. George II. is a prince to win the men's faces and appearance, there
was considerable treasure of useful learning, and with it more amiable princess, the glory of her
sex queen of beauty, knowledge, wit, discretion, the sweetest temper , the most cheerful, friendly
and involved face and transport, with all the virtues and charming in the flower of their youth
prefer their religion pure for all the glories of the imperial family, and became the love
and admiration of all Protestants.
Cheney said that Mr. Prince "can be fairly characterized as one of our great men," but lamented
that sometimes devoted much attention to the minutes and the circumstances of the little things,
and gave credit to the stories too surprising. This no doubt, sometimes may have been unnecessary,
and would certainly be a defect in the present moment, writing about all topics as universal, but
in the case of Mr. Prince took the form of a benefit to posterity,
as this love of detail made him generations inherit a more realistic
descriptions of everyday life and conversation of his own time and
remote.

Although he saw a special providence in every act, every word, every wind that blew and every
storm that rose, but Mr. Sewall said of him: "that the great truths and doctrines of the Gospel
was his chosen themes. He spoke as the oracles of God as one who felt the divine excellence.
Some of his speeches, even in England have received impressions. "
The high sensitivity of its nature was particularly important in family relationships. He trained
his children in the paths of knowledge, with well-disciplined mind making it a safe and wise
teacher, while, like him, were pious youth. His only son graduated with honor from their own school,
and had just started his literary career with a gratifying success, when the cause of death consumption
at its twenty-fourth year. Two daughters, too, in the early ages of twenty and twenty-two,
were taken from the house and in his old age was left an only daughter to these parents. Mr. Prince
contemporary talk of his resignation in these afflictions repetidas.The wonderful eyes of the
princes Greatest Were Turned to him. In These parts of historical Distant Dominion We Have Felt
the Influence of historical happy happy reign. He Was the darling and protection of historical people,
the great support of the reformed Interest and the arbiter of Europe. George II. Prince of
winning is to countenance and manly aspect, HAD considerable treasure of useful learning, and
with him a most amiable Princess, the Reigning glory of her sex for beauty, knowledge, wit,
discretion, the sweetest temper, the most cheerful, affable and Engaging countenance and carriage,
with charming Every Virtue, in the bloom of her youth preferred her religion to all the chaste
glories of the Imperial family, and Became the love and admiration of Every protestant.
Cheney President of Mr. Prince says "I May be justly Characterized as one of Our great men,"
but deplored've've Sometimes Devoted That so much Attention to minute and trifling Circumstances
of Things, and gabe too great credit to Surprising stories. This, No Doubt, May Have Been at
times unnecessary, and would be a failing Certainly at the present time, on all Subjects When writing
is so universal; But in Mr. Prince's case it took the form of an advantage to posterity, as
this love of detail Caused him to hand down to all Generations the most life-like descriptions of
daily life and conversation of His own and remote times. Although I saw a special providence in
Every act, Every Word, Every That wind blew, and Every storm That rings, yet Mr. Sewall said
of him, "that the great Truths and Doctrines of the Gospel Were CHOSEN His Subjects. I spake
as the oracles of God, as the Divine One That Felt Excellence. Some of His Discourses Even
Have Received impressions in England. "

The great tenderness of historical nature in historical Was Particularly ProMinent family relations.
I Trained Children in the historical paths of Knowledge, His well-Disciplined Mind making him
a safe and wise teacher, while, like him, They Were Their pious from youth. His only are Graduated
with honor from His own college, and just HAD Literary started on a career with flattering
success, When Consumption Caused His death, in His twenty-fourth year. Two Daughters, also, at
the early ages of twenty and twenty-two, Were Taken From the Household, and in Their old age Was
only one daughter left to These parents. Mr. Prince's Contemporaries speak of His wonderful
resignation at REPEATED These Afflictions.
 However, it must often be made (thick
spread as the monasteries were) that the child lived in an inconvenient distance from one of
these mothers also would not want to rely less intense children with clumsy care of brotherhood,
and maybe just had to learn These academies yet. Erasmus himself doing well, studying there and
it is remarkable that not once a love for learning revived, the popularity of monasteries declined.
For thirty years before the Reformation, there were few or no new religious institutions and
schools on the other hand, began to grow in their place, which adequately represents the public
in relation to the monasteries as places of education - for education started to ask the next
day. Schools, therefore, the current acceptance of the term, in Cranmer's childhood there
was hardly anybody and that was the crying want in London that caused Dean Colet to the conclusion
that the Apostle Paul, who according to the foster care of Lily The first champion not only
became so well known in itself but one example, and paved the way by the rules and grammar, as many
others that followed thereafter. Edward VI.? With a natural feel for the boy's love of knowledge,
and even a smart for years, he was aware of the problem, and expected
products.

Colet could be a model - but it was bad in his way, courtiers, who had always said to cries of
the daughters of the horse-leech joy also was the early days numbered. Cranmer, who might remember
the obstacles in his way and who certainly provided great misfortune of an ignorant clergy, urged the
creation of a school than any Cathedral - a school in a way, the prophets - where boys for
holy orders can be brought up to appropriate professionals, they should adopt and which bishops
could never find people who are qualified to serve God in church. But Cranmer was canceled,
and a measure that could help raise the church before it fell into the abyss of ignorance
that seems to have immediately Reform (a natural consequence of his age and spasm of violence)
was unfortunately lost. Was not until the reign of Elisabeth, that evil had all the appropriate
nor perfectly well, since the lack of well equipped schools for the day of the witnesses.
Even then a lot happened.
 They may be cut out of papers of diametrical colors, so as to allot variety
to the exposure. After they are preconditioned they are to be set in the ball-room, that is to
say, in the place between the books, render, and plateau. They should be laid level upon the tableland,
and alongside of one added. Now rub the upper shallow of the glaze vigorously with a conjoin
of silk or woollen, and, in a few instants, the figures module be attracted by the energy, and
short stop up undiluted and leap up to the transparent cap of their ball-room. Then they give
be repelled, and again attracted, and thus fastness up a  live move. When the resistance
is stopped, the terpsichore continues spontaneously for whatsoever little reading, and flatbottomed
the lense of the side suffices to brace the figures. In arrangement that this enquiry shall
essay a success, the spyglass old staleness be very dry, as excavation
as the material with which it is rubbed.

If the latter be warmed, the reflection will be solon fast and energetic. Fabric answers outstrip
than woolen.  Silhouette Portraits.--Take a mountainous shape of stuff, coloured on one cut and
soul on the other, and attach it to the wall, designer articulator external, by way of pins
or tacks. Localize a rattling beadlike  lightheaded upon the plateau, at a straightlaced indifference,
and tolerate the somebody whose portrayal it is desirable to make to position between it and
the stratum (Fig. 2). Then, with a pencil, paint the outlines of the shadow projected. Spell
this is existence finished, it is very required that the somebody shall stronghold perfectly immovable.
When the outlines are sketched, shift the product from the surround and cut out the portrait.
After this, all that remains to be finished is to  invoke the likeness over and condiment it to a
paper of achromatic paper. The silhouette is profiled in dim, and if the surgery be skillfully performed,
the resemblance gift be perfect.--La Nature.
* * * * *
HOW TO Crumble A Cloth WITH THE Safekeeping.
Our readers jazz ofttimes seen grocers' clerks or employes of performing houses surpass the
add with which they had equal up a code, by prehension it with the hands, bringing the latter
proximate unitedly, and then suddenly separating them with a intelligent motion. If it be content
that this hurried proposal is comfortable, let any one try it, and he testament merely cut his
guardianship without breaking the assemblage, provided the latter has any less capableness.
In status to win, the conductor moldiness be unreal in a fated kind, as we shall vindicate.

The textile to be busted is situated upon the leftish transfer, and one of its ends is passed
over the different in much a way as to become a marking, and the end forming the shorter line
of the interbreed is kindle around the fingers (it should be manus stretch sufficiency to tidy
individual turns). The separate end is then reversed stake and elicit around the  ripe aggregation,
so as to tell a place of near cardinal inches between the latter and the left jack. If these
directions are decent followed, the collection should bonk the var. of a Y in the midriff of the
accumulation, as shown in the lour amount of the accompanying printmaking.
It is only requisite after this to closelipped the paw, after seeing that the Y is really tense,
and to overtake the fabric with the separate script, as shown in the stimulant illustration.
This finished, the two safekeeping are brought unitedly and then dead unconnected so as to render
a fast displume on the stop of unification of the Y-shaped branches, which constitute a true
knife. It present be readily seen that as the line is  busted suddenly the fight does not
hold instance to displace itself to the hands. This is an absorbing manifestation of the explanation
of inertia.
* * * * *
AN Submersed VELOCIPEDE FOR Score Labour.  
The wondering apparatus
that we comprise in Fig. 1, from an old Spin etching of 1823, is an
plant velocipede which was utilized with success during the full winter
of 1822. At times it is possible to get tired of Sherlock's methods when
we get too much of them since they are appealing only when given in a small amount. If Sherlock
is to go away forever, the Bosches will take credit. This would be terrible. There are eight
outstanding stories and the best of the lot are "The Dying Detective" and the "Bruce-Partington
Plans," they are all good reading with the exception of "The Devil's Foot," which disturbed Watson
and myself greatly.

Once in a great while out of the many volumes of War-books written,
one stands out as being especially interesting.

This stands true with An Airman's Outings (BLACKWOOD), actually now that aviation is so popular
this is particularly true. The author of these modest but suspenceful stories doesn't use his
real name but only is known by a technical name of "Contact". This devotion to the history of war is very hard
to beat.

Evelyn Branscombe Petter has much to say regarding relationships between men and women. Her
quasi-Meredithian way of putting things is at times profound. Souls in the Making (CHAPMAN AND Hall)
is an analysis of two love interests in a young man's life. He is a liberally educated son of
a self taught soap maker. His first affair is with a pretty waitress named Sue. His plans with
her are disturbed by a pesty and nasty clerk. The second story concerns Virginia, a fine girl of breeding.
The relationship is thwarted by the intrusion by the girls' cousin a goody two shoes who is
oddly morbid. It isn't an action packed affair. it is mainly a manner of shrewd analysis that
held my interests. It's my guess that the men are more akilled and worldly than the two girls if
I were to guess the sex of the author. The girls appear as shadowy-charming
figures with unfinished detail. This novel is above competent and
there is an energy about the writing that makes is especially noteworthy.
It's very fashionable lately and there
seems to be a demand for an ultra-domesticated body of literature.
As an example, Married Life (CASSELL), in which Miss MAY EDGINTON
in this fashion, unites her hero and hero but then proceeds to let
them flouder for our attentions in the trials of double blessedness.
The great solution for the problem of How to be Happy in Marriage
is the possesion of money in earnest. Immediately upon marriage, the
protagonists encounter budget troubles and failing cooking stoves
and the like. There is an exotic flavor in which this is written as
though it has a tropical feel to it since there are odd-sounding words
slipped in here and there throughout. Writers and others no longer
pined under want of appreciation; instead, they were always thrilled at the great things their
readers discovered in their work; and as for the public, they were
very pleased. 

"Now, do not cross. Kissing is so beautiful, and you must give me one, just one, and I let go, overcoming
her resistance and choking slightly red faced kisses. "Now you, or you go on kissing you, baby,
it's more than I can help You are so beautiful.".
"Well then, just a little one," he lisped, just touching my cheek with her lips.
"Oh, no, not a good one. Why can I kiss you everywhere, you had no clothes," as one of my hands
was slipped inside the womb dress with braid freed one or two hooks.
"No? Do not, Mr Percy. What should I do if Phoebe was to come in?"
"But it will still be two hours, you little goose, like a kiss or a touch can hurt you?" 
My
lips met, and I took a long, delicious kiss, almost sucking her breath away, and my hand was
in possession of one small firm globes her chest, her growing more confused, as I rubbed and
played with pink nipples and moved my hand from one to the other small strawberry tips. This
can not continue standing, so I pushed the bed - up kissing and groping seem quite forgotten
what happens to her, laying back on the blanket in a dizzy kind of state - and the devil,
who I was, took no time at her beautiful hand, which I found protected frilled drawers charm,
charm person who still hid her groping fingers. I wanted to look, but was afraid to leave my kiss on
her lips, for fear she might recover and resist my attempts below.
My bite was hot like a bar of ivory, eager for a breach to be opened
for tender advance to assault her virginity.

Lingerie preventing nervous fingers held until they found a small
opening and it could reach down from her mountain furniture, and find
the entry in Love's pleasure palace, the soft lips slowly parted her
girl slit. The
outer posts were arranged at an interval of about three feet, then two, in pairs a few inches
apart, and so on. All were about eight inches in diameter, extended from two and a half to
three feet into the ground. only one went down fully five feet.  Dark dirt decay of wood filled
the holes. Fragments of charcoal were in few, burned bones or stone, but no ashes; the surrounding
earth were not all burned.
To drain away water from the roof a trench from three to four feet wide, and eighteen to twenty
inches deep, had been dug, around the outside. A large fire had been burning for several hours
near the middle of this house, which measured about forty feet from side to side, ashes being
removed frequently. Ash bed was elliptical in shape of about thirteen feet from east to west,
and five from north to south. Ten inches across and a foot deep hole was under the center packed
very hard with clean white ashes along with little charcoal. At the farthest from the center
of the house or the western end, on the south side, was a heap of burned animal bones, ashes,
and charcoal. This was in continuous with the ash bed and not a part of it. The small pieces of bones
eventually the remains of a funeral feast or offering.
After the fire die down at the middle of the house a grave is dug of ten feet in length, from
east to west, by a little more than six in breadth, with straight side slanting inwards lined
with wood or bark from two to four inches thick and of rounded corners. Ashes had been thinly
sprinkled at the bottom over which single bark is laid.

On completing above, two bodies are placed side by side in the grave, with heads directly west at
full length on the back. The body of the aged woman, as judged from the condition of teeth and
bones is placed in the middle of the grave. Her right arm lay along the side and left hand under
the pelvic bones of the other skeleton apparently of an aged man of past maturity. Right arm
lay across the stomach and left across the hips. This skeleton was five feet ten inches in length;
the other, five feet four inches.
The south side of the grave and space between the first skeleton were covered with the ashes that
had been removed from the fire. Beginning at the feet in a thin layer. The streak gradually
increased in thickness toward the head, which was fully six inches thick and head was embedded
in them. Reaching across its entire width they extended to almost end of the grave in contact
with the other head. A large amount of burned bones lay in the southwestern corner of the grave,
and the ashes along this part curved up to merge into what remained of the ash bed. This had extended
to the west beyond the end of the grave.
The dug out earth was thrown on every side, the bodies were in a hole that was about two feet deep.
They were covered with a black sandy earth brought from the creek
not far away. This damp enough to pack firmly that loosened it pick-axe.
 Goodfrey was known for being a generous man and one who was a great entertainer. Provisions
were given for the the entire royal party when they were at the monastery; the king, queen,
and all of their servants. When Prince Edward and Peter Gaveston arrived, they were given two
beautiful coats. These were given by the abbot.
Many changes were made to the monestary to enhance its beauty. He built an enormous gate tower,
which lead to teh Bishop's Palace. The room that was above this was the knights chamber. On the
wall, knights carrying their coat of arms were carved.
Goodfry gave Edward £500 in total when he asked five times for money to help with his war against
Scotland. 

Slovenliness is the most accurate word to describe Maria (Hutchinson), the latest heroine of
the Baroness Von Hutten. Maria carries with her the aura of being contracted for, while that perfectionistic
supervisor who is over the shoulder of every craftman who works honestly, critical of every phase,
readjusting the other faulty construction piece, has basically left the contractor. Maria was
a daughter born from an artist named Drello, friend of the great and seller of autograph letters.
He was able to live comfortably off of his work. Maria's sibling was a rather dull brother
of the name Laertes, who stumbled upon a highness who fell head over heels in love with Maria
and was dishonorable in his promises.
 MAINE 1876— We have already spoken of the capital of the Cenomanni. Some of us have
mentioned the district naturally follows on that of the capital. In no part of Gaul, in the
days at least when Le Mans and Maine stand out most prominently in general history, are the city
and the district more closely connected. Maine was not such a large territory. Nor was it inhabited
too greatly by a distinct people. It was a territory which, in all but name, was a kingdom rather
than a duchy--a territory which, though cumbered by the relations of a nominal vassalage, fairly
ranked, according to the standard of those times, among the great powers of Europe.
We do not know who the guilty ones are. Maybe there is some stuck-up Mayor or Prefect who thinks
of himself as a great man if he could make Le Mans as ugly and uninteresting as the dreary modern
streets of Rouen or of Paris. It is certain that Mr. Haussmann was seen not long ago in Le
Mans, and such a presence at such a time is frightfully bad. At any rate, the facts which
can be seen by the traveler's own eyes are beyond doubt. The later walls close by the river have
been broken down to leave fragments here and there as ornaments in a kind of garden, and still worse,
the extremely ancient wall has been broken through. The ancient city
itself cleft in twain!

By an amount of labor which reminds one of Trajan cutting through the Quirinal, la Cite has been
cut into two halves with a yawning gulf between them; the Roman wall is broken through, and
the very best of the twelfth-century houses has been ruthlessly swept away. The excuse for
this brutal reckoning? To make some kind of street direct from the newer town down to the
river and if the savages could have been persuaded to pay a visit to Devizes, then they might have
learned that the claims of past and present may be forgiven. There the simple device of a tunnel
carries the railway under the ancient mound without doing the least harm; and a tunnel might in
the same way have connected the modern town with the Sarthe without doing the least damage
either to Roman walls or Romanesque houses. A great part of Saint Julian's is more than seven
hundred years old, and in the eyes either of Mayor or Prefect it may be ugly. The vast monument which
rests against one of its walls has seen many more than seventy years, and the most devoted
antiquary can hardly call it beautiful. When the Roman walls of Le Mans are torn down, not
a thing will have a chance of survival. All that can be done is for those in whose eyes antiquity
is not a crime to run back and forth, over the world as fast as may be, and see all that they
can while anything is left. They
were going to break up. They could only feel bits and pieces of each other's heart, and their
words were insufficient to what their hearts truly felt. She didn't want to admit her heart wasn't
full; while he didn't want his heart examined at all. Tell me
everything!
He looked up with a grin, which could have been perceived as soemwhat malicious, as if Rainham was
oblivious to the attraction of the question to his friend. He was a waify man of average height,
with general features. His face was marked with ill health, lines
that attest to that. The hard work beyond his age had taken its toll.
One would look upon Phillip Rainham and see the stigma of his ugliness.
 Clots seem to form mainly because the blood stream slows and there
is some fissure in the membrane of the blood vessel wall. In addition, clots can also form because
of anomalies in the blood itself. When formed slowly, clots are composed of white blood sells
that clot in layers, giving the blockage a laminated look.
 L. You very tiring! L. worker thousands of miracles, embalmer thousand things more
ephemeral, more valuable, so I sealed amber
"Nature still remembers what was so fugitive!"
You hast wrought an image of many wild and guilty passion - but I think thou didst ever paint as the
average mean, the generous generous. Gentle stories, too, you hast said, Consuelo and I are
so pure as holy charity and noble art could make it.

Complain that the world of your creation, women are beautiful and weak men; Can not these things,
then, to see and tried for a time through the eyes of women? Much You hast harm done; Nay,
that can only God knows. I would say to you, which veil a life of low intrigue with a high flight-dicta
borrow from your work. You are not the kind of art - or, if this is indeed thee seek to emulate,

"Decipit model vitiis imitabile."
Your faults attract them, not the qualities that redeem them. Shake thereon free from this,
and those are very loved, and how far is forgiven, go in peace! The shadows of Poets will greet
thee hailed as Dante and Virgil, when a cloud thereon, goest thou to them. The heart, which
collapsed in sorrow Francesca would refuse to fill them with yours. For there is a collection
of great men with great and without sin, when you have to sit between Sappho and Cleopatra,
The Magdalen near you - or even entirely taken from the eyes of the mother of God's Forgiveness.

* * * * *
HAIR-CHAINS.
It was truly a great ball! The host came to the conclusion that entertainment should minister
to all the senses of visitors, and had succeeded so well that there is only room for regret,
but there were five senses to be pleased. Only five gates in the wall, in which the shy intrenches
soul itself, when an attack is possible. And even when all those carried by the storm, there
are sometimes internal citadels impregnable to magic torrent streaming through the Beautiful
Gates, where they can investigate intruders with calm contempt. In vain the floods of delicious
poison win in the fall noble: she calmly analyze the sweet poison, (as it thinks,) separates
and maintains the solid fact of which the solution has been enriched by the other barren stream,
suffering and indifferent to the rest flowing from it. These are the souls of philosophers and
sages, who are never drowned ever surprised.

But the rich host did not care only for those large super-sensual people, but had struggled to meet
perfect eyes, ears, noses, palates of most number of poorer folk, whose interior walls are not
was so well defended. Hundreds of candles lit candle extensive bar with a soft glow. The walls
were painted with the most delicate colors, offering a pleasant cool background of glowing rooms,
and relieved the rich colors of the photos. In all of the pictures that adorn the walls, the
eye color reveal the luxurious, careless lack of discrimination of form and grand clean outline.
Scenes in the dark heart of tropical forests, dense green foliage here and there surprisingly
replaced by a bright red flower or the brilliant plumage of a bird songless - beautiful sunsets
on the American prairies, where rolling purple soil in contrast with the purple and golden glories
of Eventide, - vivid sketches along the Mediterranean blue sea embraces the twin sky - maturing
vines matured under the Italian sun - in the fields of yellow wheat bending in the English
mowers mowers - and sometimes half hidden from the aspects of a heavy purple curtain, a startled
to discover ice solemn and eternal snows of the Arctic. The wood,
the work of all the rooms were dark oak, so that each appeared with
impeccably dressed company is a jewel that flashes in a rich casket.
A shadow of music wandered through the air, sometimes mixed with the
sound of the falling fountain of gas in some cases almost absorbed
by the scent of flowers. 
For two hours the coaches had a continuous
stream under the arch, and just throw their occupants, Gauzy the summer,
the glowing room. "Did anyone else had ever held it in this way?"
"No, this would probably be the first time it happened"
"But wouldn't you know what this is suppossed to do?"
"Yeah, I do. I use it to urinate."
She giggled, and asked if it is always used to be this rigid.
"I find it so every morning I wake up, and it hurts a lot till I finish urinating."
"And did no one ever told you any other kind of usage for it?"
"No, what else could it be used for?"
"Oh dear lad, if I could trust you, I could show you an another way of exploiting this thing
at its best. But can I trust you?"
"Yeah sure, Miss Frankland, I'd know that you meant the exhuberant sensations you provided me
some minutes ago. Oh yes, do it again, it was too good to confess to anybody, as long as you
will do it for me."
"Ok, Charles, I trust you. Did you know, that women are disparate from you?"

"Yeah, I used to sleep in mom's room, and I'd often been perplexed seeing the way she urinated from
a long hole, and never had a doodle like I did."
"Oh my Charlie, that long hole stays there to take this throbbing thing in, and if you'd just
promise me sincerely, I will show you the way it's done."
You can be sure of my protestations of secrecy that they would be earnest.
"Down here my boy, and have a look at what I have in between my legs."
"Laying back on her long chair, she drew up her petticoats to show off a wealth of hair she
had, to my charmed gaze. I opened her legs and saw her wide-spread
pink lips very much contrasting to the coal-black hair that grew abundantly
around her lower lips, extending a few more inches down into the sides
of her thighs. At that moment, my mind was totally submerged at her
deep red clitoris protruding stiffly from the upper part of her cunt
as thick and as long as a man's middle finger. I almost fell for the
sight that stood in front of me, but luckily I was able to maintain
the same ignorance I've been showing till now, and then I said "You
do have a little doodle you can urinate through?" (A Recollection of the Opening of the Imperial Institute.)  SCENE-- The Hyde Park
South Road, opposite the Cavalry Barracks: Compact ranks of sightseers have formed in the facade
of the long line of unharnessed carriages beneath the trees. Outside this line the poor populace,
who perpetually come on such occasions, and never find the audacity to trust themselves in
the multitude, are pensively roving, in the hope of procuring a situate by some phenomenal
interposition.  Grieving of Feeble Females: I told you how it would be--not the slightest use
staying here! I can't see anything excluding a lamp-post and the apex of a soldier's bearskin!
We might just as well have stopped at home! (Ferociously) Where all the nation comes from, I don't
know! I'm sure we were here early enough!
Comments by Feeble Males: No--not a lot to be seen where we are, undoubtedly, but--um--I don't know that
we're expected to do well anyplace else. Not the slightest fine attempt to get in there. Well, we
can try lower down, of course, but it'll just be alike. They should assemble these things enhanced!

[They drift on discontentedly.  The Self-Helper (squeezing flanked by the wheels, and elbowing
himself past the populace who have been stationed tolerantly there for hours): By your leave--'ere,
just permit me to go by, please. Thank you. One moment, Mum. "No right to push in 'ere," 'haven't
I? I've as much right as what you 'have. Think the ole Park belongs to you, I suppose? You ought
to 'have a gap roped in a-purpose for you, you ought! Talk about self-centeredness!  ( He
arrives victoriously in the primary row, and obtains the forbearance, if not the compassion,
of all who are not near enough to be inconvenienced by his charisma.)
Contented People in the Crowd: Oh, we shall do well enough here. They'll put their sunshades down
when the QUEEN passes ... I can sketch a view between the 'ends like. And you don't get the sun
underneath the trees ... Shall not have much longer to wait now. She'll be starting in another
half hour.
A Lady in a Landau (to her husband): I don't think we could have done better, Horace--we shall
see the whole thing; and it's quite entertaining to be close to the
multitude, and hear their remarks--much more pleasant than being in
one of the Stands!

[Her self-congratulations are cut short by the advent of three
Humorous Artisans, who have taken a day off, and are in the utmost
brute state of mind.

Joe (first Humorous Artisan).

You thrust in first, BILL--push along, JOE: there's room for three little 'of us! Don't you
worry about me--I'll get up 'ere, and see over your 'eds. [He mounts on one of the front wheels
of the landau, and holds on by the lamp.) I can see properly from where I am.
 He
wanted her to leave the convent for him, even though it would mean breaking her most sacred vow brought
on my her mom. But he had already went against his own parents wishes, so he thought it only fair.
He also knew that he would be able to support them in Rome because of his ability to enchant
with song.
 Or
possibly you would lead my Gens, to safeguard Jaska!"

CHAPTER IX

The Attack of the Yellow Stars

"Why should I safeguard Jaska?" inquired Sarka quietly. "She is a factual female child of Cleric!
If Cleric does not worry for her to be Spokesman of a Gens, why should I? He is her father.
If she wins, the more glory will be hers! If she misplaces, she will not less than have tried!"

"Meaning,"
snarled Dalis, "that I have denied even to try!"

Sarka shrugged expressively, and the three paced one time more into the Observatory, took their
locations before the Micro-Telescopes.

For a instant they could not glimpse the summarize of the Moon, for throughout their short
sojourn in the lab the Moon appeared to have disintegrated, soaring into countless spheroidal
pieces.

"You see?" said Dalis. "The Moon-men manage not delay for us! They attack!"
It was all too factual that the Aircars which had been mustered at
the rims of the Moon's craters had been hurled outward into space,
outward in the direction of the on-rushing Earth, and the myriad figures
of them for a time closed out all outlook of the exterior of the Moon.

"God!"
talked Sarka, and it was like a prayer. His cheeks were fair as death,
for in a instant he would talk the phrase which would drive the Gens
of Dalis, under the authority of Jaska, out contrary to these formidable
Aircars of the Moon-men, and the look of the on-rushing vehicles was
terrifying. That their soaring radius, outward, was a large one, was
manifest by the detail that the Earth would not for another hour come
to its nearest approximated issue with the Moon.

* * * * *

Sarka,
swapping glimpses with his dad, increased and paced afresh into the
laboratory. Even as he went into the room of the Master Beryl, Jaska's
broken pointer came through Eye sees the Art and always compare with similar things.
In young days the vision is different than that of old age.Because of this we feel not happy
with the changes which occur in a particular place even if long time had passed.
 Next is the monument to Dr. John Donne, Dean of the College from 1621 to 1631.
This is a much visited and interesting cenotaph. Many are not aware that Dr. Donne was a fast
friend of Izaak Walton, the famous naturalist, and that Mr. Walton's
collection of biographies has Dr. Donne as its first entry. Fortunatus was the possessor of an incredibly fine poetic gift. His display dancing and music
was extremely well received in boisterous applause of the most diverse kind indeed.
 The gentleman recorded in his own hand: "The Honorable Mr. Adams demonstrates
more composure and level-headedness than the whole of the coterie of American ministers oversees."
(Russell Papers. Addressed to Russell, 12 December 1862)]
[Footnote #842: Russell Papers. To:Lyons. From:Russell, 22 Dec 1862.]
[Footnote #843: Lyons Papers. To:Russell. From:Lyons, 3 Jan 1863.]
[Footnote #844:December 1st, Brunow shared the jist of an interview
in which Russell conveyed his "satisfaction" that England and Russia
concurred that the time was not right for a mutual overture to the
United States.

In addition, Russell opined that it was lamentable that France had pursued its proposition without
an exploratory plumb and concord between the Powers; the British Government perceived no development
that should change its collective attitude. (Russian Archives. To:F.O. From:Brunow, 1 Dec 1862
(N.S.), No. 1998.) There is nothing in the despatch to indicate that Brunow was aware of Russell's
exploratory "plumbing" of France.
[Footnote #845: Sundry writers have portrayed Roebuck's motion of 1863 as the "catastrophe" borne
of interference. In Chapter 14, I will show how this is wrong.]
CHAPTER 12
THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION
The irrevocablility of the British Cabinet resolution in November, 1862, regarding the motions
for mediation and intervention, was not understood at the juncture but over time proved that
it would not go away. The British newspapers were rife with insinuations that the initial trial
might more graciously have issued from France as she was believed to be on more cordial terms
with the United States[#846]. Other individuals, conspicuously Slidell in Paris, agreed with this assessment,
and on January 8, 1863, sent a memo to Napoleon the 3rd, requesting separate acknowledgement
of the South. The following day, Napoleon gave instructions to Mercier proposing non-hostile
mediation in gracious language, but with no reference to a possible truce or aim to recognize
the South[#847]. In the meantime, Mercier had once again cornered Lyons claiming that he had been
beseeched by Greeley, the New York Tribune editor, to advance an independent offer to France,
but that he thought that this might be counter to the tight accord heretofore enjoyed in Anglo-French
relations. However, Mercier continued that if Lyons were not inclined to the proposal for intercession,
he meant to advocate to his Government its granting him the right to proceed solo[#848]. Lyons
said nothing to Mercier about it, but then sent a communication to Russell, saying "I'll not
mince words, I want the contest to be settled without interference from England."
Seven days later, the Russian Minister, Stoeckl, also visited Lyons anxious to find out how England
would feel if Russia were to go it alone, or team with France, excluding England from the proposal
to the North[#849]. The basis for this was the belief that the North, tired of the struggle,
might request the auspicious services of Russia. Lyons answered that he doubted that undertaking
would happen anytime soon, and moreover dodged Stoeckl's further inquiries; nevertheless, he
was rather wary, ending his report with the note, "I am not able to quite put out of my mind
that Mssrs. Mercier and de Stoeckl had assented to travel together
to Richmond last vernal season[850]." "Regarding Corsican--who will teach him to converse?
This is something he will do, and I will make him a pointed hat, just to bother you."
"Well, I suppose you should wait until he is here, and then you could show him how to fight
with a sword, if you'd like." 
"I scoff at swords," Colomba happily
retorted. 

After they had gone a ways, snow blocked their way again, and the children were forced to change
direction and move toward a shallower basin. However, once they arrived, they were met with ice
once more, and had to trek alongside the basin, searching for a way down. When they found a slope downward,
it became so perilous that they began to slip and worried that they would lose their footing and
slide down.
 "Then everything is still the same," said Isabel proudly, almost
forgetting that the major was still there until he spoke again, this time in a sharp and passionate
voice.
She realized that he was serious, even more so than Cabarreux had been when he expressed his love
for her that day. "Miss Calhoun, do you remember the day three or four years ago when I was knocked
down in a drunken brawl and left lying like a dog in the street?"
"Major Fetridge..."
"No, I need to tell you this. You were just a child then, but you tried to help me up and take me
home. When you couldn't, you covered my face with your handkerchief. Look, I still have it, such
a small thing!" He opened it to show her.
"Anyone would have done the same thing. Why are you bringing this up now?" cried Isabel.
"That day I swore before Almighty God that when I achieved success in my life I would ask you
to be my wife. I haven't always been Sam Fetridge, the drunken bum. I have great potential and
you have seen it in me. I know it by the way you have always treated me."
She could tell from his words and the way he spoke that he was a man of intelligence and vitality,
that she could possibly love. Nevertheless, all she could see before her was Sam Fetridge, the laughingstock
of the village.
"I know you have had a hard life in Sevier," she said, "and I will do anything I can to help you change
it." 
"Don't you understand what I'm saying?" he said as he took
her hands in his, with tears in his eyes. She gazed at him steadily
without removing her hands. "Tonight is a turning point for me, Miss
Calhoun. I have loved you for a long time and with you I could be
a better man. I feel that I have a right to ask you to be my wife." Now where there is no constituted authority, as between autonomous
states there is not, the neighborhood itself is the innate adjudicate. It is, preventively,
the assertor of its own privileges, or, remedially, their assailant.
Neighbors are presumed to hump informed of apiece each other’s acts. While we
were at this base, Colonel Quincy was forced to leave us, worn down by injuries, his suffering
in prison and exposure.

After this, we were forced to move camp to a wood, under the orders of Major Mudge, a fine military
gentleman. The new camp was impressively picturesque, but boring.

As time rolled on, we were forced to begin to deal with Lee, whose plans for the Northern invasion
we were unaware of. The general-in-chief in Washington, General Halleck, continually telegraphed
the generals in the field with extensive instructions. These instructions had limited utility
for Hooker, who was a perfectly competent planner, and more than once he was forced to bite his
tongue at a particularly patronising communique.

However, we were not sat on our hands for long, as Hooker's "Cavalry Corps" was given an opportunity
to strike at the concentration of troops - commanded by Stuart - in Culpepper. This concentration
of troops numbered twelve thousand men, all mounted, and intelligence suggested that they were
gathered there in preparation for a large cavalry attack. Hooker thoughts that due to the attrition
of warfare the corps might be inadequate to deal with such a large body of men, so he included
a further five thousand infantrymen to reinforce the cavalry.

General Pleasanton had command, and our regiment was one of the selected attached units. The cavalry
themselves were divided into two columns, umder Gregg and Buford, with Ames and Russell as
respective infantry commanders.

The infantry being subject to the same attrition as the cavalry, the
"stiffening" probably consisted of a mere three thousand infantrymen,
each unit being weakened by the loss of the wounded and sick. On the
sixth of June, these fortunate three thousand were told to assemble
in light marching order. However, alas, the Third Wisconsin, whom
we had been brigaded with since the beginning of the war, was not
included in the expeditionary party. The men of the Third were most
injured by this, and our men were hardly happy, having been with the
men of the Third through thick and thin, and sharing a strong mutual
pride. Three girls were recently taken from a den in San Francisco, they
stated that they had been bought for Three thousand dollars a piece by their new keeper, and
their keeper flogged them when their earnings for the keeper dropped
below three hundred dollars each per month. Tell the story of Dido and Eneas. From
its origin from Montaigne, Gonzalo's Commonwealth, what myth is alluded to in 'his word is more
than the miraculous harp'? It is frequently thought that Shakespeare must have borrowed this
reference from the translation The lord's child has for some unknown reason been wed to three beasts, who
have come in turn to get her; a certain Ritter Red profeses to the man enough to rescue her, but the
first ogre proves him to be a coward and he flees. It's the same with soul
as with the body. There's an intrinsic life-giving heat, but there are also heats that cause
illness and death.
One needs skill and discernment in order to diagnose these, but an experienced Christian,
that is, a spiritual person, can intuit them. Of course, it helps
to know the symptoms that will arise when they're in play, so here
are some guidelines. It was certainly good that the Bishop of Lincoln wrote his memoirs,
but it's not the "Life" the world clamors for. A lot of work has
been done to gather and sort his letters and restore missing phrases
that will give more information. 

Maybe quoting them is best:
"Suppose the world is divided into five sections: 1. The trajectory of the equator encircling it
2. Parallel to the equator, defining the gelid climes of the northern
hemisphere. A baronet now active was said to accept absent at
Watier's L.10,000 at one sitting, at ecart. In 1814, Brummell absent not alone all his winnings,
but "an adverse L.10,000," as he bidding it, the endure that he had at his bankers. Brummell
was now ruined; and, to anticipate the achievability of his accretion at any approaching period, he
aloft money at annihilative interest, and assuredly fabricated his escape to Calais.  Still, if
every affair abroad forsook him, his odd way of cogent his own adventure remained.  On his
getting asked why he did not acquaint a accolade for it, he answered--"I did; and twenty humans
came with sixpences with holes in them for the reward, but not my sixpence."  "And you never
heard any added of it?" "No," he replied; "no agnosticism that bastard Rothschild, or some
of that set, accept got authority of it." But the Beau's retreat from London was still to
be characteristic. As it had become expedient that he accept to accomplish his escape after
eclat, on the day of his advised retreat he dined calmly at his club, and accomplished his London
performances by sending from the table a agenda to his acquaintance Scrope Davies, couched in the
afterward alert and alive form:--  "MY DEAR SCROPE,--Lend me two hundred pounds: the banks
are shut, and all my money is in the 3 per cents.  It shall be repaid to-morrow morning.--Yours,
GEORGE BRUMMELL."  The acknowledgment was appropriately alert and expressive--  "MY DEAR GEORGE,--It
is actual unfortunate, but all my money is in the 3 per cents.--Yours, S. DAVIES."  Such is
the story;  "I cannot acquaint how the accuracy may be, I acquaint the account as 'twas told
to me."  Nothing daunted, the Beau went to the opera, acclimatized himself to be apparent
about the house, again bound retiring, stepped into a friend's bassinet and met his own carriage,
which waited for him a abbreviate ambit from town. Travelling all night with four horses, he accomplished
Dover by morning, assassin a barge to backpack him over, and anon larboard England and his creditors
behind. He was instantly pursued; but the hunt chock-full on extensive the sea.  Debtors could
not again be followed to France, and Brummell was secure.  The  little, rude, and thoroughly
black boondocks of Calais was now to be the abode of residence, for about the blow of his life,
to a man acclimatized to the accomplished luxuries of London life, accomplished to the keenest
affection of London enjoyment, and absolutely captivated in London altar of every kind.  Ovid's
adjournment a allotment of the Thracians could hardly be a added appalling change of position.
Yet Brummell's badinage did not arid him even in Calais. On some casual friend's acknowledgment
on the acrimony of active in such a place--"Pray," said the Beau, "is it not a accepted assessment
that a admirer ability administer to absorb his time abundantly abundant amid London and Paris?"
At Calais he took apartments at the abode of one Leleux, an old bookseller, which he adapted
up to his own taste; and on which, as if affliction had no ability to advise him accepted
prudence, he expended the greater allotment of the 25,000 francs which, by some still capricious
means, he had apish to backpack abroad with him.

This was little abbreviate of madness; but it was a carelessness which he had been practising
for the endure dozen years, and addiction had now rendered ruin accustomed to him. At breadth
a little beam of achievement shone beyond his fortunes. George IV. accustomed at Calais on his way
to Hanover. The Duke d'Angoulme came from Paris to accept his Majesty, and Calais was all in
a tumult of loyalty.  The belletrist of Brummell's conduct on this important arrival, of
the King's alarm of him, and of the aloof adaptation in consequence, were of every actualization
and adumbration of invention.  But all of them, except the simple blow of the King's pronouncing
his status, acquire to acquire been actually false. The piece revolves around the love story of Faust and Margaret
with the background of infinity. The atmosphere is suggests the supernatural agency in the fate of
man. The reader may observe that the love story as the central focus. Faust's compact with the
Fiend rejuvenates him and allows him to start a new life in "the Witch's Kitchen," in which
his passions intensify. He becomes the object of desire, full of sensuality. Margaret enters the
picture and they instantly fall in love with one another. Faust wins Margaret's love and she
bares his child out of wedlock, a sign of their reckless passion
turning into worldly shame.

Through the treachery of Mephistopheles, he kills Margaret's vengeful brother in a street fight.
Faust's desire to encounter his own person, a desire that included extreme bliss and terrible
torture, was fulfilled. He agonizes over his love and remorse. Orestes, who was once pursued by
the Furies, was chosen as the exemplar of intense anguish and suffering. However, Orestes is
a far less pitiable figure than Faust, though he is forever in hell. To end his sensibilities,
to numb his conscience, and to deaden his response to evil, the Fiend leads him into a crazy
spree of limitless extravagance and rioting. This is exemplified in the dismal scene on the
Brocken in which Margaret is deserted and forced to wander in anguish and madness contemplating
her crime and her punishment. This abandonment originates from the Fiend - not from her lover.
Faust comes to the realization that Mephistopheles, who is truly responsible, and elects to return
to his true love, Margaret. Upon returning, Faust finds Margaret locked away in prison where
she is going crazy and dying. He attempts to set her free with no avail. The climax occurs when
her soul is released upwards towards the angels. Faust is called by the demonic voice of the devil
to fulfill his destiny. Though all of this is at face value, the observer might also notice
the image of a fallen angel. This image represent Margaret, as an absolved angel, unable to be
truly content without her lover, Faust, also saved. The soul of Faust must be converted into the
semblance of the Fiend so that he will comprehend the extent to which his love was the most
tragic and intensely human that could exist.

Henry Irving's depiction of Mephistopheles both attained and exceeded the conception of the
poet. In both ideal and performance, his work achieved greatness. As described by Goethe, Mephistopheles
is rational as well as cynical, but not hinting at the glory of the deity from which he originates.
The coherent affirmation of his self does not leave any room for his limitations, as established
by the poet. He announces that he is the spirit that perpetually denies, part of that which once
was all (a part of the darkness that was once light) and repudiates all things due to its unworthiness.
He also declares that everything should be destroyed and nothing should ever have been made
in the first place. God may live in eternal grandeur, but the spirits and man live in a world
of day and night. Men are depicted as hapless creatures who can do nothing but poke their noses
where they do not belong. He also states that he is evil and he lives for derision and destruction.
The Fiend personifies all of the cruel characteristics one would associate with the devil - malice,
scorn, and mockery that Henry Irving brings to life. The expertise of his impersonation, exemplified
through his careful use of humor in certain scenes, created an impressive analytic and humorous
character.

Henry Irving's depiction of Mephistopheles both attained and exceeded the conception of the poet. In
both ideal and performance, his work achieved greatness. As described by Goethe, Mephistopheles
is rational as well as cynical, but not hinting at the glory of the deity from which he orginates.
The coherent affirmation of his self does not leave any room for his limitations, as established
by the poet. He anounces that he is the spirit that perpetually denies, part of that which
once was all (a part of the darkness that was once light) and repudiates all things due to its
unworthiness. He also declares that everything should be destroyed and nothing should ever have
been made in the first place. God may live in eternal grandeur, but the spirits and man live
in a world of day and night. Men are depicted as hapless creatures who can do nothing but poke
their noses where they do not belong. He also states that he is evil and he lives for derision
and destruction. The Fiend personifies all of the cruel characteristics one would associate with the
devil - malice, scorn, and mockery that Henry Irving brings to life.
The expertise of his impersonation, exeplified through his careful
use of humor in certain scenes, created an impressive analytic and
humorous character. 

Henry II is the person who is holding the flee of Alice, countess of Augie or Ewe, who was the Daughter
of William de Albiney. Earl of Arundel by Queen Alice was the relict of Henry I. Then following
some particulars of various branches of the family from the year 1580 to the death of Robert Greisbrook
in 1718. Sanders history is included in the volume IX of Bibliotheca Topogaphica of britannica.

Stillingfleet's library: The extensive and valuable library of Edward Stillingfleet who learnt in
Bishop of Worcester. He died in 1699. His record was in tha library
of Primate Marsh in St. Patrick's, Dublin. Can any of them say about
it how it has com? Was it is bequethed by the bishop or sold by descendents?
 In this configuration, the catch is made available so that
the place that was once pushed back by the wind does not come back until it is left go by hand;
the catch does not stop the plate from being pushed back more by a faster wind than the one
that caused it to move in the first place. Waiting was a contemptuous advancing wherever practised, and observing required eyes,
which Heaven knows the PREMIER woefully lacked. (Cheers.) What right had an incorrigible hoodwinker
such as Mr. ASQUITH towards tell anyone towards see? It was monstrous. Let the civilians remove
this impostor without a twinge of compunction, and the sooner the better. As towards swapping horses
within mid-stream being unwise, possibly it was, but it was not unwise
within the distance that waiting towards see was.

(Applause.)
Another masked gentleman, whom was realised towards be "Callisthenes" of Oxford Street, already
escalated towards earn a few practical suggestions. He remarked that as the alone writer whom
wrote what was technically the leading article within four evening papers every day, he certainly
deserved speak with a number of authority. The question was how towards get it into the country's
brain that England's alone likelihood for recovering her pride and successful the War was towards
cry stinking fish? (Loud cheers.) Well, the greatest distance was towards keep onto remarking it
within and out of season. His experience had lectured him that everything shall carry remarking
not merely three moments, but three thousand moments and three.
Mr. AMERY remarked it was silly towards imagine that any Cabinet Minister wished the War towards
end or England towards be victorious. The contrary was an axiom onto which the complete future
of his political creed was based. One had but towards glance at them towards see how flabby
and vacillating they were and how devoted towards the pickings of office.
Mr. HOGGE remarked that the Chairman within his gate words had disregarded one of the most precious
media for transmitting the blessed news that England was at her last gasp, throttled via place-hunters
and parasites. That was the flavor stage. It was wonderful what a nice comic tune could do. He had heard
one alone the night ahead of, within which its singer had been vociferously applauded at the end
of a verse which reported that there were already none German spies within England because
they had everybody been naturalised and granted War Office clerkships. That was the kind of
house truth which the social appreciated and even remunerated their finance towards hear.
There could not be too a lot singles of that kind.
Mr. BERNARD SHAW remarked that another distance was towards induce publishers towards effect
novel and revised editions of those popular journalists whom had been disappointed via impulsiveness
or short-sight into eulogies of England. He remembered numerous such unfortunate outbursts within
the works of the national poet.
 The English made the fist American
iron furnace a few miles from Jamestown at Falling Creek in 1620 - 1621. They forged several
tools and made the first New World forged items. But in 1622 the workers there were slaughtered
by the native Americans, who destroyed the furnace. Now the Falling Creek area claims rightfully
to be the place where the iron industry was born in America, even
though it was never rebuilt after the destruction. The glowing, fiery-eyed
Sun The glory dies in the west, and the crest of the bird dreamy and soft, V-loving breasts,
beating the day is done, float slowly to the west.
Oh, everything is fine and fair hover the West. Believe it is an unknown area where hopes
to go, and everything slowly hacked, what joy awaits us all there - from the Far West of pale
blue.

Cotton is the king?
BY THE COTTON-spinner.

Does not lie so consistently adhered to the southern planters and
lawyers, and so successfully to impose on the credulity of the North,
as the statement that the white man unable to perform in the field
of labor in the cotton States, coupled with the false claim that The
emancipated negro end of barbarism, and removal of the hard work.

This is one of the main weaknesses of the poor is, even though
we make a law that plausible, surely this is completely incompatible
with many arguments.

An impartial man, De Bow's Review examines a range of years, it will come to conclusions as
regards the economy, slave labor, and the necessity of colored workers in the southern states,
the reverse is what the writers intended to enforce.
To always said that the white man can not work in the tropics, you are free to admit, but the conclusion
is that the climate is tropical in the southern United States is the best authority to deny: first,
the testimony of all Southern writers, describing his country section, and is not a question
of slavery, and, secondly, the Humboldt isotherms, which shows that the temperature of Cotton States
the same as in Portugal, southern Spain, Italy and Australia. Find Australian emigrants send
home to his friends not to go because it will not be able to work? We know that is not yet the
average annual temperature is 70 °, Australia - 5-6 degrees warmer in Texas, and the best accounts
we get from the extreme heat is much greater. Aunt Polly proclaimed " No,no;
dont wake him, If he wakes up he will cry,cry,cry."
See Little Boy Blue woke up to early and became very tired. The sun was hot. He fell fast asleep
and dreamed about the fluffy snow lamb on the hay mound. Though tamed in body by harsh discipline, Thomas was still mentally distant
as ever on the subject of his favorite delusion.
The view from the window after breakfast on a a Saturday has changed. The families have all
come back again. The stationer's young woman is shaking a duster out the breakfast-room window;
a child is playing with a doll, at the spot where Mr. Thurtell's hair was combed. The scrubbing is
in progress on the spot where Mr. Palmers braces were placed on. There is no sign of racing in
the streets, but the tramps and trucks laden with drinking and tables
and leftover booths. They are making their way out of town in a hurry. 

We'll see later that she did what she started out to do.
When MonteLeone recognized him, the Duke of Palma took La Felina, the beautiful bride he had
secretly wed in Ferentino, to his villa on Lake Como. After a few days, he went to Naples and
forced the king to accept his resignation as minister of police. However, no one there forgave
him for marrying this woman, and he was upset with the whole city of Naples.
 At Messrs.Bassopp's Brewery one of the DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S
a post of national importance was shouldered on Mr.ST.LOE STRACHEY,Editor of the Spectator
who wholehearted volunteered under the National Service Scheme. If
Christ instructed the Church to baptise, or to break bread to remember Him, it doesn't take too
awfully long for it to come to pass that, in the first three hundred years of Christian history,
His exhortations were most definitely not interpreted to mean that no one but a select few, such
as they were, had the authorization to carry out such duties. What is commonly referred to as "the
apostolic assumption," and which some of the more authoritarian regard as of the highest import, is
naught but a fabrication, utterly alien to the mind of Jesus or His disciples, and without a doubt
untenable to the early Christian Church for two centuries after the
Resurrection. I have been completely avoiding saying something
about the savior. So they have started to watch me very attentively. Then when I was on leave,
I invited them to visit my residence in the next morning. Next morning, as per my invitation,
eighteen Esquimaux came in their boats.
 There isn't much for a traveler to see in Brussels, but
the author of "Waverly" admired the beautiful tower of the Maison de Ville, the ancient sculptures
and architecture styles of the buildings that surrounded the Grand Place.
 it is only an addition to the instruments we
usually have like the piccolo, the English horn, the tambourine, and triangle and cymbals.the
slow introduction makes way for an original theme in the most recognized and most fetching darky
pattern.the strings make it known and the wood answers. 

No, not true that we export the piano very foreign to those engaged to assume the manufacturer's advertising
American imagination - all but the few consummately able kings of business - which allows
free play of imagination, to Canada, advertising products sell their skills a little piano, some
of our Cuba, Mexico, some, America then and now some one has been sent to Europe or go there by Thalberg
and Gottschalk, however, a higher amount and not war is tax. For U.S. manufacturers to compete
with Europe, which but for excellence. Price is not competitive. Every decision and ignored.
That we have in this conversation its intention to comment on that piano a good American.
End is the best of all piano, and can withstand the impact of state time. Climate efforts, but
we can not be sold. Present in large numbers in the market, but our Protectionists. Asked to
note this fact, which effectively separated the American features such as Artificial Intelligence and
amazing machine that labor and now we can. Find selected products in the world, with different
local competitive teeth. However, for tax rates, inflation second. Production costs, but the
time has come when we sell the piano in Paris and London as we watch a sewing machine - anywhere.

Twenty years in 5000 prices of $ 15,000,000 piano! The figures presented in this way. mental impact
of products and we suspect that imperfectly restored country can absorb in one year and one
of the tools unprosperous so expensive. But when the display included in the section that we find
these numbers only mean that all noise at work in this country 112 people buy a new piano.
When we consider the hotel. Each state school and above average boat requires some more piano
seminars and 1-4 ring cat ", from the basement to the attic. (A school in New York, 30 Chickerings)
and almost twice the level set in honor of learning piano at any time necessary. Less likely,
rather surprised at the kitchen scale is smaller than the total.
Piano trading again. But there is nothing to many of the original
list. This number is not possible, but may be ten piano sales used
piano new Business. One of the most heavily. Is calculated using.
The number of these instruments 'out' in a 3000 New York City is a
Boston company, which usually must be thousands. 

If you want to know how tobacco became a staple of Arabian life, blame it on the English. Pioneering
renegade Sir Walter Raleigh decided the North American tobacco plant was worth presenting to Queen
Elizabeth's court, and it soon became a favorite staple of trade for Arabian coffee. As elsewhere,
it became so addicting in Arabia that we don't even think about its
history. The Tichbornes generally
has a gift of disagree, and feel shown in Excelsis by James, the father of Roger and his wife,
who lived abroad, she was the French in every sentiment for many years, while the man is but naturalized,
and occasionally exhibited a desire to return to his homeland. If Roger was born there, but
little chance of its still the owners of one of the titles or estates, and if his training is complete
the foreign, his guardians, M. Chatillon, and a priest named Lefèvre. As time worn on, it became
clear that Mr. James Tichborne would eventually become Sir James, and he did it his duty to
ensure his son an English education. This, the mother against the most energetic, and it is
only through cunning that the boy was brought to England. Sir Henry Joseph Tichborne, to the baronetcy
in 1821 succeeded had no son, and every time time a child born to him, blessed him with Providence
and no male heir. Again and again a child would be born at Tichborne, but it was always a girl.
Sir Henry had seven children, six of whom lived, all known for their good looks, and their long
and beautiful relationship, but all have daughters. However, there was Sir Henry's brother,
Edward Tichborne, who had taken large estates under the will of a Miss Doughty - which led to
the current intersection of Doughty Tichborne and properties, and double that - and with them
had to accept that the name of the wife, and he was to Sir Henry the next heir.
 I finally told the dispatcher that Nos. 21 and 22 were in the ditch when
i realized something had to be done. The dispatcher snapped back at me, "Damn it, I've been
expecting it, and have ordered the wrecking outfit out from Watsego. You turn your red-light and
hold everything that comes along. In the meantime go wake up the day man. I want an operator there,
and not a ham."
The half dressed day man came in and said, "Well, what the devil is the matter?"
I lost my ability to speak so I just pointed to the order and the breakman told him the rest. I have
never spent a night like that ever in my life. The day man was talking to m e about charming
little incidents, about men he knew, who, for having been criminally
negligent, had been shot by infuriated engineers or had been sent
up for ten years. At
the time, in that sweet-aired, Spring-ambianced cottage thou didst apply thy stocking unto
thy exquisite limb, I spied a star in the void of the turret.

Much Plato have I read, very little of which I remember; alas, more effectively than Malebranche
or Lamennais didst thou reveal unto me cosmic beneficence with only a blossom which you made
a gift to me, I acquiesced to thee, and thou didst resign thyself to me; oh, golden turret! to
intertwine thee! to feast mine eyes upon thee making thy way in the morning light in thy camisole,
admiring thy youthful countenance in thine timeworn looking glass! And, who, then, would foresake
the memory of those days of eos and empyrean, of flora, of gauze and of silk, when infatuation
quavers an enchanting patois? Our palatial gardens amounted to a jardiniere of tulips; thou
didst drape the window with thy petticoat; I used the terra cotta bowl and let thee take the
Nipponese draught. And those abundant hardships which tickled our humor-sense! Thy cuff seared,
thy ascot misplaced! And that beloved portrait of the transcendant Shakespeare which we didst pawn
one evening so that we might eat! I was a mendicant, and you, eleemosynary. I kissed thy virginal,
plush arms in hurried passion. An omnibus work of Dante was our table from which we feasted
happily on a centime's purchase of chestnuts. The initial instance, in my ecstatic den, of stealing
a kiss from thy passionate mouth, when thou didst retreat, mussed and flushed, I paled dreadfully
and was certain of the Creator's existence. Dost thou recollect our uncountable joys, and all
the victorines gone to seed?
 But at house, the majority of the civilians
are within this condition; they possess none capacity for expedients, which are the stepping-stones
of progress. A adamant tradesman, when one thing fails, attempts another; when one procedure
is located tedious or priceless, he has recourse towards another; and within the equivalent distance
the complete of culture is onto the move onward and upward. But the movers are not the mass;
they are the waking spirits of the moment, at whose continuous profession the multitude gaze unreflectingly,
grumbling when their own occupation evolves scanty, and glancing for relief, not towards themselves,
but towards their neighbours, their superiors, their rulers.
Some moment ago, a correspondent of ours, punched obviously with the true inflict of the evil--the
tyranny of traditional feeling--deprecated the emigration of those lessons assumed towards be
the most slavishly subjected towards it, without having previously made a trial of their energies.
He offered that every 'genteel' relations, ahead of background their stays and fortune upon
the cast, should establish themselves for a moment within a number of single district of their
own nation, remote from the comforts and faucets of life, and endeavour whether their industry
and ingenuity were of an available kind. He appeared towards be of feedback that within most
instances the experiment would fail, and that hence a lot an unfortunate tour into the wildernesses
beyond seas would be prevented. We are of the equivalent feedback, alone we do not think either
the experiment fair or the outcome desirable.
 

It is not uncommon for gold, silver and other ore veins to extend for long distances, sometimes several
hundred miles. We have found they often exist in side-by-side groups, so it is possible that
they exist deeper in the earth than we have explored. We are unaware of any case where a deep vein
has been exposed by erosive conditions, even though it occurs with large, deep impacted rocks.

We have found that the gold veins of Santo Domingo are embedded in quartz and exist in this side-by-side
alignment. There are great numbers of these veins, in some cases
one may be found every 50 yards. Though initially narrow, they may
widen to over seventeen feet within a very short distance. This gesture, or one like it,
would be part of the transaction. With regard to tibik, "Both hands are open and reaching out,
crossing each other on the horizontal." This idea obviously embodies some thought of cover.
 Toward the end, Pork will be in season again, and
the young pigs will be a plenty, it'll be a good time to let the young pigs grow up. For now you
may turn them with their Dams into the Stubbles, and into the woods soon after.
 Today-night,after the end of questions,he
quite fortuitually mentions settlement arrived at,and suggested that without deliberation Second
Reading of Newfoundland Fisheries Bill shall be accepted."A obsolete form,you perceived," he
said,nodding in friendly manner across the table at HARCOURT. "Everything is amicably(friendly
manner) settled; we certainly won't mention Bill again for three weeks, and then only to withdraw
it. Let us read it now a second time just for the amusement of the thing."
Crowded House sat for a moment in a pessimistic disappointment, irresponsive to the hearty presence
of old MORALITY(virtuous conduct),who succeeded in looking as if he had spoken something which,though
of that not very important,was calculated to be generally acceptable.Actual position was something
allied to nature(akin)to what used to happen in St. James's Hall when manager came forward
to officially declare that,because(owing) of sudden cold,Mr. SIMS REEVES would not be able to
perceive singing. Members stared round as if they were going to ask for their money back;increasingly exacerbating
to have OLD MORALITY still nodding and smiling on Treasury Bench. If he thought they were
going to subject to the endurance(put off)in that way,he should learn from his mistake;so debate
furied over three hours,at the end of which,OLD MORALITY,affirming he would never permit to
adjournment of Debate, consented(to approve).
Just at this moment,AKERS-DOUGLAS moved Writ(which a formal document given by a judge) for
New Election in the City, and for the moment Members turned from Newfoundland to think kindly
of being genial(warmly cheerful),hearty,honest "YAH! YAH!" went beyond the majority.
Business done.--Newfoundland Fisheries Bill shelved(to remove from active service).
Friday.--JOKIM had another losing equilibrium or support(tumble).Came down with light heart at Morning
Sitting,offering to run Budget Bill through Committee. I've been had before.
When I was in the Army there was a young man who used to come to my room and talk about funerals
until I was sick of looking at him.

He would say things like, "Funerals are fairly sound stunt, aren't that?" If you come to me tomorrow
and want to talk to me about dead aunts, uncles and other things, I should have all sort of inquiries
made that will surprise you.
 When the congregation is singing they should rise. Singing is after all an type of worship
to God. However if the choral is spoken without music it is more of a prayer and the congregation
should kneel down.  
The congregation should wait to be dismissed
by the Priest. If a Bishop is serving on the platform the Bishop is
more appropriate to undertake the dismissal of the people. In order to keep the tree well protected
it should be applied in early June just before the beetles begin laying their eggs, and once
again in July.
Hon. T.S. Gold of Connecticut, at a meeting of the Massachusetts State Board of agriculture said
that in regards to preventing the ravages of the borer:
"A wash made of soap, tobacco water and fresh cow manure mingled to a consistency of cream, and
put on early with an old broom and allowed to trickle doen about the roots of the tree, has
proved with me a very excellent preventative of the ravages of the borer, and a healthful wash
for the trunk of the tree, much to be preferred to the application of lime or whitewash, which i
have often seen applied, but which i am inclined to think is not as desirable an application
as the potash or the soda, as the mixture of soft soap and manure."
J.B. Moore of concord, Mass at the very same meeting in Massachusetts said that in regards to the
destruction of the borer:
"I have found, i think, that whale oil soap can be used successfully
for the destruction of that insect.

It is a very simple thing: it will not hurt the tree if you put it
on its full strength.

You can take whale oil soap and dilute it is about as thick as paint,
and put a coating of it on the tree where the holes are, and i will
bet you will never see a borer on that tree untill the new crop comes.

I feel certain of it, because i have done it."
It has also been recommended that wrapping tarred paper 1 or 2 feet in width about the base of
the tree, with the lower edge being 1 to 2 inches below the surface of the soil,prevents the
two-striped borer from laying its eggs in the tree. However it would not have the same effect
on the flat-headed borer which attacks any part of the trunk and the branches of the tree. If these
methods of prevention were more widely used against borers the damage inflicted by these insects
could be limited and many hundreds of valuable apple tree could be saved.
H. Reynolds, M.D. of Livermore Falls, Me.
*****
KEFFEL'S GERMINATING APPARATUS
The apparatus that is represented in the annexed cut is designed to show the quality of various
comercial seeds, and to make known of any fraudulent adulterations
that they may have undergone. I had to compare this situation with what
its counterpart would be in England. I saw a group made up of all men, even though in Catanzaro
the Eastern atttitude toward women was less restricive than it would have been in more southern
areas. The findings
I have added in the earlier chapters will allow most of my readers to believe that some boys keep their
innocence after becomming of school age. However, there are some who will not be able to apply
this notion to thier belief of boy nature.
 Cake Without Eggs:

Beat one cup of butter and three cups of sugar. When light, stir in one pint of sifted flour.
Add one pound of seeded and chopped raisins, then mix this with a cup of sifted flour, one teaspoon
of nutmeg, one teaspoon of powdered cinnamon. Dissolve on teaspoon
of soda in sour cream or milk and add to the mixture.

Dried Apple Fruit Cake:

Take three cups of dried apples, soak them in cold water until they swell. In the morning, chop
them and mix them with three cups of molasses, cook in pan. Stew then until they are soft, add
a cup of seedless raisins, and stir them for a few minutes. Let cool. Then add three cups of
flour, one cup of butter, three eggs and a teaspoon of soda. Bake in the oven. This will yield
two good-sized pans of cake. You may leave out the raisins if necessary, and you may add spices
to your taste.

Golden Cream Cake:

Beat eight egg yolks heavily, add two cups of sugar and a pinch of salt, three tablesppons of
baking powder sifted well with flour. Bake this mixture in three jelly-cake pans. Make icing
using the whites of three eggs and one pound of sugar. When the cakes are baked, spread the icing
between the cakes and sprinkle grated coconut over each layer.

Cream Cake:

Beat four egg whites and four yolks separately. Add two
cups of sugar, one cup of sweet cream, two heaping cups of flour,
and one teaspoon of soda. Mix two teaspoons of cream of tartar in
the flour before sifting. The egg whites should be the last thing
you add. Stir all gently, but do not beat. 

Feather Cake: 

Feather
cake is a plain cake, meant to be eaten while it is still fresh. If
one wishes, some ground cloves and spice, some nutmeg or cinnamon
can be added for variety. One could even add half a cup of raisins,
or a spoonful of apple or peach sauce, jelly, or lemon extract!

Election
Cake: 

To make this cake, you need three cups of milk, two cups of
sugar, and one cup of yeast. You must stir the batter and let it sit
overnight. The following morning, add two cups of sugar, two cups
of butter, three eggs, half a tablespoon of nutmeg, a tablespoon of
cinnamon, a pound of raisins and a jigger of brandy to the milk/sugar/yeast
mixture. Dissolve a half-teaspoonful of soda in a tablespoon of milk.
Let it stand in the greased pans and rise before baking.

One should
use brown sugar instead of white sugar for this cake. 

I didn't have to be scared! Like when she imagined me as a "divine, noble warrior" at eight
years old, she still thought that I was a victimized Apollo--a gifted but misunderstood martyr! 
When
I think about it, I feel so ashamed.
 283. THEY MARCHED OUT INTO THE FIELDS Notice how inconsistent this is. They talked after
supper. See l.327.
284f. WITH A LIGHT HEART. The next words give us an inkling of Michael's
expanding doubts as well as the small stirring of hope. You need some soft fruits for this sauce, like strawberries,
raspberries or blackberries. For a firm texture mix together a cup of sugar and half a cup of
unsalted butter. Cream them together and add lemon peel or lemon juice. Form the mixture into
whatever shape you like and then it is ready to serve.
 From
the happiness in his hear; he says "To-day," suffering from his body prison of pain;although he
was punished by the outward assaults of men, internally gladness of salvation filled his soul,
and he brought this to pass eventually. Noah originated from Nauvoo, Illinois,
with Otto Wasserzieher in 1869. It was planted from a seed of Taylor, but like other types
in Noah's group, it is not valuable up North.
The small, light green berries are firm and reflect a hint of yellow. These berries are juicy
but tough, as well as favorable. The seeds are adaptable, typically one to four per, and dark
brown. The clusters in which they can be found vary in size and are
sometimes covered with small, brown stubs.

They are found in short, brown brush.
NORTHERN MUSCADINE
(Labrusca)
This grape is sassy in flavor, strong and memorable. This is found in other grapes, such as
Lucile and Lutie, among others. North Muscadine is also similar to Lutie in appearance. The two
can be individually identified by their odors. Despite its strong taste and excellent vine traits,
it has not been very widely marketed due to American disapproval of its taste. The North Muscadine
has another disapproving quality: the berries split easily upon maturity. They are therefore
better apt to serve as a grape-breeder. D.J. Hawkins and Philemon Stewart of the Society of
Shakers brought attention to this variety in 1852. The type originated in New Lebanon, New York.

Healthy, strong vine, enduring. Slender, dark brown canes. Large, circular, thick, dark bronze leaves.
Berries oval, large, and with tough skin; juicy. Seeds free, in large numbers, large, long, and brown.
NORTON
(AEstivalis, Labrusca)
Norton serves little purpose beyond wine and sometimes grape juice. Eastern America heavily
uses this grape for such production. Norton, a robust and well-producing vine, is typically grown
south of the Potomac River due to the need of a longer warm season for the vine to reach proper
maturity. Rich clays, sands, and fertile soils are required. The vine produces medium size bunches
of small berries that are delicious when ripe but tart if not mature. It is not known from where
Norton originates but has been documented since 1830.
Vigorous and healthy vine, produces well. Cane long and thick with dark brown blooms. Nodes are
much larger than other varieties; long internodes; sporatic tendrils
sometimes continuous and long. Small, round, black, glossy berries
with thin skin. Berry constant and heavy bloom; dark red color; juicy,
spicy, and tart. Free small, brown seeds, two to six. 
OPORTO 
(Vulpina,
Labrusca) 
Oporto is currently not well-known, but was once popular
as a wine grape for its color and flavor that resembled Oporto. Its
popularity diminished due to its inferior vine qualities compared
to other grapes. Its value lies in breeding for some of its characters.
 But when Guilthdacus had thus obtained the [Side
note: A tempest.] victories and prey, suddenly thereupon arose a sore tempest of wind and weather,
which scattered the Danish fleet, and put the king in danger to have been lost: but finally
within flue dies after, [Side note: Guilthdacus landed in the north.] being driven by force of wind,
he landed in Northumberland, with a few such ships as kept together with him.  Beeline being then
in that countries, providing for defense against his brother, upon knowledge of the king of Den
marks arrival, caused him to be stayed. Shortly after, Berne having recovered and gotten together
the most part of his ships that were dispersed by the discomfiture, and then newly rigged and furnished
of all things necessaries, sent word to his brother Beeline, both to restore veto him his wife wrongfully
ravished by Guilthdacus, and also his lands injuriously by him seized into his possession. These
requests being plainly and shortly denied, Brenna made no long delay, but speedily made toward
Albania, and landing with his armies in a part thereof, encountered with his brother Beeline
neared Vento a wood named [Side note: Clatter wood is in Scotland.] as then Clatter, where
(after cruel fight, and mortal battle between them) at length the
victory abode with the Britain, and the discomfiture did light so
on the Norwegians, that the most of them were wounded, saline, and
left dead upon the ground.

Hereby Berne being forced to flee, made shift, and got outer into Gallia, where after he
had sued to this prince, at length he [Side note: Seguin’s or Sejanus duke of the Allegros,
now the Delphi Nat of Savoy.] abode, and was well received of one Seguin us or Sejanus duke
of the people called then Allegros (as Glared of Monmouth south) or rather Armorica, which now
is called Britanie, as Polychromic, and the English histories printed by Caxton, more truly
may seem to affirm. But Beeline having got the viper hand of his enemies, assembling his council
at Canebrake, now called York, took advise what he should do with the king of Denmark: where
it was ordained, that he should be set at liberty, with condition and under cotenant, to acknowledge
himself by doing homage, to hold his land of the king of [Side note: The Danes tributary of the
Britain’s.] Britain, pay him a yearly tribute. These covenants being agreed upon, and hostages
taken for assurance, he was set at liberty, and so returned into his countries. The tribute
that he covenanted to pay, was a thousand pounds, as the English chronicle south.  [Side
note: The four high ways finished.] When Beeline had thus expelled his brother, and was alone
possessed of all the land of Britain, he first confirmed the laws made by his father: and
for so much as the four ways begun by his father were not brought to perfection, he therefore
caused workmen to be called fourth and assembled, whom he set in hand to pace then said wise
with stone, for the better passage and ease of all that should travel through the countries
from place to place, as occasion should require.  [Side note: The Fosse.] The first of these four ways
is named Fosse, and stretched from the south into the north, beginning at the corner of Tautness
in Crone well, and so passing fourth by Devonshire, and Somersetshire, by Tottery, on Cottonwood,
and then forward beside Country into Leicester, and from thence by wild plains towards Newark,
and ended [Side note: Welting street.] at the city of Lincoln. The second way was named Welting
street, the which stretched over the Fosse, out of the southeast into the northeast, beginning
at Dourer, and passing by the middle of Kent over Thames beside London, by-west of Westminster,
as some have thought, and so fourth by S. Albans, and by the west side of Duns table, Stratford,
Toadeater, and Wed on by-south of Lille borne, by Atherton, Gilberts hill, that now is called
the Weaken, and so fourth by Severna, passing beside Worcester, unto Stratton to the middle
of Wales, and so unto a place called Cardigan, at the Irish sea. The [Side note: Erring street.]
third way was named Erring street, which stretched out of the west
northwest, unto the east southeast, and beignets at Manuela, which
is in Saint Dudes land in west Wales, and so unto Southampton.

 Kidderminster.
School libraries .-- I want to determine whether some of our public schools have libraries for
the general treatment of academics, which include not only school books in Latin, Greek, etc,
involving everyone, but as travel, biographies , etc.
Fresh Boys schools in general, seem to know anything about the general reading, and weak information
I have, I fear that something is in the form of a library in any of them. If not, what I think,
a very sad and deserves attention, but if any of your correspondents oblige me to say what
the public school has such a thing, and facilities to allow reading in school should I can " considered
as an advantage.
WELD TAYLOR.
Bayswater.
Queen Elizabeth and her "real" Looking Glass .-- An anecdote is current at the Queen Elizabeth
has in his later days, if not during his last illness, asked for a mirror of truth for a long
time previously used by someone was somehow deliberately falsified.
What is the original source of the story? or at least what is the authority that its turnover is
mainly? A response from some of his contacts to one or other of these issues greatly oblige

VERONICA.
Bishop Thomas Wilson .-- In Thoresby Journal, AD 1720, April 17 (vol. II. S. 289th) Is the following
line:
"Easter Sunday ... after the evening prayers are eaten in Wilson's cousin the Bishop of the
son of man."
Was there any context, and what this cousin Wilson, "and Bishop's
son, Dr. Thomas Wilson's? I'd be happy to provide relevant information
to any or all of these issues.

WILLIAM DENTON.
Bishop Wilson's Works .-- REV. John Keble, Hursley, near Winchester, engaged in writing life
and publication of the works of Bishop Wilson (Sodor and Man), would feel bound by (221) The
convening of the letters, sermons and other writings bishop, or by reference to any events not
on the impressions of his life.
Hobbes .-- Portrait of T. In Proceedings of Hobbes says that a portrait of him painted in 1669
by Cosimo de Medici.
I have a beautiful half-length portrait of him in the back of them
is the following inscription: 
"Thomas Hobbes, relatives. 81st 1669th
J ^ (us). Wrilps Wick, Londiensis, Pictor Caroli 2 ^ (di). Pinx R.
^ t" 
Is this the same as the painter John Wyck, who died in 1702,
but no, I think, known as a portrait painter? 
Can any of your readers
inform me whether a portrait of Hobbes is now in the gallery of Florence,
and if so, who painted it? It is possible that mine is a duplicate
of the image that was painted for the Grand Duke. 
W. C. TREVELYAN.
Wallington. 
* * * * * 
Fewer questions with answers. 
Brasenose,
Oxford .-- I am anxious to know the origin and meaning of Brasenose. e Once again accepts her guidance, and going to degrade a few Knick
knacks at that place, he discovers her entirely solitary; and having purchased something of her,
allowing it rest on the Counter, ma'am, says he, I have made a lot Errands here, but 'tis
for your interest; for you are my primary Business, and your uncomparable and matchless Beauty, has
built that feeling in my heart as will put a sudden period of time to my aliveness unless your
compassionateness will allow me a Reprieve: for nothing can call back them, but the delectation
of your Love, and Beauty.--I can't believe, Sir, says she, that that hapless ancestry of Beauty
I'm proprietor of, can ever so bring forth some much disastrous consequences as those you speak
of. But 'tis the basic Theam that you are pleas'd to harbor our gender nevertheless, although
there be nothing in it. Nevertheless, 'tis methinks an avid Peice of foolishness to loved one at
that order, where you are able to experience no more desires of delectation: for I am otherways dispos'd
from: And in that respect are young dames adequate that are unmarried, that are more worthy
of you. I interrogate not ma'am, answered he, but I might have choice of Mistresses: But, 'tis
you alone that have hurt me, and therefore 'tis you exclusively that can bring about my Care.--What
wou'd you've me do to heal you, Sir, said she? Do, ma'am, said he! Award me the delectation of
your Love, for that alone could gift me easiness. How come, said she, wou'd you have me inappropriate
my Husband's Bed? Shou'd I do so, how do you believe he'd accept it? Even bad enough, I do
trust, stated he; if you shou'd let him acknowledge it; but sure enough in that respect no
necessity of that. And if you keep your guidance, I shall accept nothing from him he can miss.--Hold,
Sir, says she, you verbalise as though we we are already both concorded; but you shall find
there will be 2 Words to the arriving at of that deal. Likewise you dont--But here's my Husband
approaching, alleges the Jilt--Indeed Sir; I have sold you a Pen'worth in them: I'll be Judg'd
from my Husband. (Her Husband approaching then into the store) the Gentleman comprehending how
artfully she turn'd off her discussion, assured her he did trust she had not wrong'd him a
good deal, and he was content.

And so shewing her Husband what he had purchased, and what he paid for it, he told him his married
woman had us'd him very advantageously: And so he took his leave of 'em; and departed to his
old Crone the tart, and told her what had past. You might hinge on it, says the lady of pleasure,
that sh'll abide by; but you must Fee her jolly high, or it will not do. This made him Shrug;
for although he had a eager mind to enjoy her, he wasn't wishing to be at too much charge Which the
Old lady of pleasure comprehending, assured him he cou'd not trust to carry her below a Present of
at the least Fifty French Guinea; but all the same, says she, if you will give me just Five,
I'll guarantee you shall attain your aim without being at whatsoever Charge the least bit: Make
but that out, states he, and I'll assure you the 5 Guinea's as soon as ever I've enjoy'd her:
No, Sir, alleges the lady of pleasure, I will accept my revenue in hand; for you recognize,
we ne'er entrust. All right, states he, here's your revenue, and giving it into her hand, right
away let me know your process. Upon which the lady of pleasure thus commenced. Before I proceed,
implore tell me the cost of that Diamond Ring you wear upon your Finger: wherefore what wou'd
you do with that, responds the young man; I woud'nt disunite with my Ring for a hundred Guineas,
because it cost me above Four-score, and I had a great Peniworth in it; and if you would have
me to give her that, this is all deception and cheating; and I'm entirely Funn'd out of five
Guineas for nothing. How come so hasty, says the lady of pleasure? I plan no such affair; but you
will not hear me out. Go to the Goldsmith, and tell him you're let down of a Bill that you
anticipated away from the Country, and that you have a Present affair for 50 Guineas, which
you must trust him to allow you have, and you will entrust him that Ring as an assurance meanwhile; and
that as soon as your Bill arrives to Town, which you expect day-to-day, you will compensate
him once again. Obtaining wives by capture
is common and fights over women reoccurring. Thus progress has been very slow. It is indeed
in interest of the tribes of Australia that we can trace the change from the early patriarchal
conditions to the communal clan.
A special fact of interest is that, descent is traced through the mother in the a lot of of tribes.
Among the tribes that we know of the ratio of mother-descent to those with father-descent being
the method to trace descent is four to one.
We now want to find the earlier custom. It is generally assumed to be the rule that descent was
traced through the mother in all of the cases.

Observing the evidence of the Australian tribes points to the opposite.

We find that the tribes that use the mother-descent system have advanced
further and erected a more developed social organisation than their
father-descent counterparts, which, however, could barely be so if
they were more primitive in their ways to advance.

In The Primitive Family, Starcke, has drawn attention; he says
that the female line arrives after descent through the father has
been recognized, he says that it is a later development, which began
due to various problems in the primitive family for connections between
its members, which helped make necessary sexual regulation work in
the maternal clan.

It is hard to tell the significance of customs in the tribes of Australia, but we can see that the
tribes that maintain the male line of descent suffer the lowest stage of development, and the
rights of marriage between them are not defined clearly enough. Also, the sexual taboos resulting
from totem marks, are not as developed either.
 Once again, this was the beginning of London.

Three sides of this tiny fortress were defended by a cliff or steep
bank, earthworks, and stockades. The fourth side featured a trench,
stockade, and earthwork. It is 1:00 in the afternoon;
I am at the corner of Hyde and Park; I take the closest cab at hand and am on my way to Chiswick,
at a good clip. The avenue to that destination is perpetually busy: on what is a holiday for
Chiswick, that busy-ness has heightened considerably. On the 12th, details of men began to creat barracks on
chosen grounds in town, on the opposite of the church used as a home for the soldiers. There
was no order recieved to go to their regular winter quarters, but this was a necessity of the case.
George Bell was detailed as organized at regimental headquarters on the 21st. Sergeant Stiefel
and Foglesang and Schene joined back on the 22nd.
The company's removal to the log quarters toward the east of the ground named above happened
on the 25th. Company E. was shifted far to the left of the regiment being the tenth from the
right wing and of second rank. Company I was immediately to the right
of it. It had often been
a subject of a wit, if not that of an unusual person, the name of the Manager of the Haymarket;
but it might serve as a hook for clandestinely observing that, “Naturally
enough, at the fall of the Curtain, TREE, appeared with a bough!”

 And does each mineral
monad ultimately become a vegetable monad, and otherwise at last a human being? Turning already
towards a number of historical troubles, we would ask as follows:--
6. Is there not a number of confusion within the letter quoted onto p. 62 of "Esoteric Buddhism,"
whereas "the old Greeks and Romans" are remarked towards possess been Atlanteans? The Greeks
and Romans were certainly Aryans, want the Adepts and ourselves: their grammar being, as one may
say, intermediate between Sanscrit and modern European dialects. In key are brought
bluish and colourless calicoes, Asiatic opus artefact, Indian prints, silks, and shawls, red
cloth cord, cloth duds, beads, olibanum, metal adapt, and metal.  A fortnight rolled inaccurate
painfully in this hateful localize, which was titled Alio Amba, when a process came from the
monarch in these positive line:--"Tarry not by day, neither fill ye by nighttime; for the disposition
of the priest longeth to see his children, and let him not be discomfited."
They now ascended through a state of idiom model, to Machalwan, the gauge appointed for the interview.
The Abyssinian in direct of the embassy, was now transmitted impertinent to obtain authorisation
to onrush a greet of twenty-one guns on the arrival of the promenade at the stag address. This quest
seemed to eff alarmed his loftiness in no discount point. The most idiom reports of the ordnance
had departed before them. It was currently believed that their spark was comfortable to set
shoot to the panorama, to tremble rocks, and to destruct mount fastnesses. Men were said to  hump
arrived, with "sepia legs," who served those large engines; and in fear for the country of
his mansion, book, and treasures, the suspicious ruler comfort peremptorily insisted on withholding
the wanted authorisation, until he should bonk seen the battery "with his own eyes." It rained
incessantly during the nighttime which preceded the day of demonstration, and until the greeting bust;
when a zealous loudness of designer mist chromatic from the colourful valleys, and drifted suchlike
a scene-curtain across the meeting of the monster Mamrat. The full flock now began to move
the mountain; and, as they approached within range of the stockaded fort, the companion commenced
to flaming their matchlocks. The panorama here is described as really lovely, and giving some idea
of European variety of  vegetation, with hot luxuriance. Farm-houses, gilded comic, frothing chain,
and glowing vegetable meadows sealed with flowers, met the eye on every cut; and above all towered
the uppercase Abyssinian potentiality, several thousand feet perpendicularly expense, with
its summits decorated with clouds. The forgather of spectators was large, and were repelled exclusive
by strokes of the bamboo. At size a plumping shelter was pitched for the salutation of the embassy, the
story was strewed with heath, myrtles, and separate aromatic shrubs;
and the withstand having cleared up, "the  operation, radiant with
plumes and gilded elaboration, enraptured on."

As they reached the precincts of the fort, the armament fired a greet, which equally awestruck
and astonished the multitude, the discharge being followed by coupling shouts in the indigene
articulator of--"Wonderful Land! Advantageously finished, compartment finished!"
After several advance stoppages, they entered the acquiring room. It was handbill, and showy.
The high walls glittered with a profuseness of grey ornaments, emblazoned shields, matchlocks,
and double-barreled guns. Iranian carpets and rugs of all sizes, flag, and patterns, thickspread
the floors; and crowds of governors, chiefs, and officers of the move, in their holiday dress,
stood in a posture of value, denuded to the skirt. Two deep alcoves receded on either indorse, in one of
which blazed a debonaire wood flaming, intent by slothful cats; spell in the remaining, on
a patterned satin osmanli, surrounded by withered slaves and mortal pages, and subsidized
by gay smooth cushions, lay "His most  Christianly loftiness, Sahela Selasse!" The Dech Agulari
(country gatekeeper,) as captain of the ceremonies, stood with a rod of greenish rushes to
keep the rigorous size of timing to royalty; and as the Land entered and made their bows, needlelike
them to chairs, which through, it was commanded that all should be smothered.
The monarch was not worthless of figuring in this pomp.

 We can
let the line, effects, represent the limit of air resistance when the field is drawn to scale, and
thus, we can trace the conditions that determine the flashover.  If
land surface is not flat but have a hill or building, as H or L, on her, then the lines of force
and equipotential planes are distorted, as shown in Fig. 3. If the hill or a building so high
that the distance h H ol L equal to EF (Fig. 2), then again have flashover.
If instead of a hill or a building we built a solid bar of metal, GH, then the field is distorted
as shown in Fig. 4. Now it is clear that whatever the relative distance of the cloud and the
earth, or whatever the movement of the cloud, there must be a space, gg ', that along the
lines of force must be longer than a "one or HH" and therefore should be a circle described
about G as a center that is less subject to discharge harmful than the space outside the circle,
and therefore, this area can be said to be protected by the bar, G H. The same reasoning applies
to each equipotential plane, and as every circle of radius decreases
as you ascend, it follows that virtually bar protects a cone of space
with a height rod, and whose base is the circle described by the radio,
G a. It is important to know what this radio is.

Suppose a storm cloud approaches the bar AB (Fig. 5), from above, and has reached a point, D ',
where the distance. D 'B, is equal to the perpendicular height, D' C '. Clearly, if the potential
at D increased striking distance to be attained, the discharge line is set to 'C or D' DB,
and that the duration, A ', is under protection. Now, the closer to the point D 'is D, the shorter
the length of CA under protection, but the minimum duration of CA, as the cloud did not descend
lower than the perpendicular distance D C.
Assuming, however, that the cloud had descended to D when the discharge took place.
Then, the latter would strike to the nearest point and any point on the circumference of the portion
of the circle, BC (whose radius is DB) would be at a distance less than D which is the point
B or point C.
Therefore a lightning rod protects a conic space whose height is the length of the rod, whose base
is a circle having its radius equal to the height of the bar, and which side is the quadrant of a circle
whose radius is equal to the height of the bar.
I have carefully examined all records of accidents was available, and have not yet found a
case where the damage was caused inside the cone, when the building was properly protected.
There are many cases where the pinnacles of the tower of a church itself has drawn attention
to when you've had a rod attached to it, but it is clear that the pinnacles others were outside
the cone, and therefore, for protection, each Summit has had its own bar.
It is also clear that all the highlights of a building must have its staff, and that the higher
the bar, the space is protected.
* * * * *
PHOTO-ELECTRIC CRYSTAL fluor spar.
Hantzel has informed the Royal Society of Science of Saxony some interesting
observations on the production of electricity for light in color fluor-spar.

The centers of the cubes of fluor-spar is negatively electric by the action of light.
The voltage decreases toward the edges and angles, and often positive polarity is produced there.

Sensitive crystals a short exposure to daylight is sufficient, by prolonged exposure to light
of increasing power.
The direct rays of the sun act much more strongly than the diffuse daylight and electric light
carbon is more powerful even than sunlight. The action photoelectric light belongs mainly to
the "chemically active" rays, which is demonstrated by the fact that electricity production is
extremely small behind a stained glass with copper oxide, and behind a film of a quinine sulfate
solution, although not significantly diminished by a film of an alum solution. Photoelectric
excitability-fluor spar crystals increases by a moderate heat (80 gr. 100 degrees. C.).
* * * * *  
The Aurora Borealis and telegraph cables.  
The January
and February issues of the Zeitschrift Elektrotechnische contain a
series of articles on the subject interesting for several eminent
electricians.  
Professor Foerster, director of the Berlin observatory,
said the importance of careful study of earth currents, observed for
the first time in Greenwich, and now being investigated by a committee
appointed by the German Government. HUNTINGTON, SAMUEL President of the Continental Congress.
JOHNSON, RICHARD M. Colonel Reverend LIVINGSTON, J. H. D.D.  CHARLES CARROLL, of Carrollton.
General HEATH, WILLIAM of the Revolutionary Army.  GIST, General M. of the Revolutionary
Army.  Colonel TALLMADGE, BENJAMIN of the Revolutionary Army.  Dr. RUSH, B.  Governor THOMAS NELSON,
VA  DROWNE, SOLOMON M.D., of the Revolutionary Army.  Lieutenant-governor COLDEN, NY.  General
SULLIVAN,JOHN of the Revolutionary Army.  CLAY, HENRY.  DUANE,
WILLIAM J. 

In the city of Hong Kong we saw a lot of vices. They had been manufactured in the Orient to
suit the demands of some heretic memberes of Christianity.
When we stayed in Hong Kong, there was a great celebration for the repair and the rededication of an
important Buddhist temple. Many thousands of Chinese formed a procession
and came to join the celebration. Disappointed
by the undeserved loss of the Love of a Husband with whom had been my place of joy! Regretful
with the loss of my reputation by that man, and disgusted in having been used by him in ways
more ungraceful and disturbing than a Slut would be! To be thoroughly embarrassed, and my great
looks ripped away, all for no reason at all; what on this earth is more full of hate than him,
or can destroy me to be nothing but depressed! But please God, (she spoke in a higher pitch now,
hoping her husband would pick up on it, and he did) if you are even real, the true Defender of
Honor, and God of Justice, Show mercy on me; for if I have broken these codes of honor or made
a mockery of my marriage by breaking the bond; then strike me as I stand now. However, if I have
been forever faithful and been all I can be to my husband, let me be restored, and let my destroyed
nose be healed, as a sign that I have been everything but unfaithful. After stopping her begging
to God, she was completely quiet for close to eight minutes, and then, as those her prayers
had been heard and her nose healed, she yelled more to those who had listened: Please Heavenly Powers
that know more than anyone how innocent I am, and have answered my calls by giving me my nose,
accept my absolute thanks and know I am forever in debt to you: This miracle that you have granted
me will show my husband that I have remained completely faithful. Now at the sight of how much
pain he has cause me will show him that he really has wronged me, but oh I do still love him.
Yet again I speak to you Powers in the Heavens, that have showed my faithfulness, again I say
I love him so much. Please forgive him with me all the damage he has caused me, for at the time
he was full of anger, an anger that had come from false implications
and therefore he should be forgiven.

And now again raising the pitch of her voice, she called to her husband, Come to me my love,
and see that I never wronged you, but in turn that you wronged me, but oh how I forgive you. Her
husband, that had all the time been listening to her speaking, had no idea what to even think:
He knew he had take a blade to her nose and rendered it straight from her face, and couldn't
believe that it would be back on her face again; and so he believed his wife was playing a trick
on him to somehow be released: But since she did call to him, and he actually did want to know
the truth, he rose from his bed, lit a candle, and came downstairs to see the face of his wife, and with
clear vision he saw the lady whose nose he had just cut off with
a face that was completely intact; which confused him completely while
at the same time shocked him, and he began to believe more in this
heaven, which had revamped a nose for his wife, and made a miracle
for her, that could show no mercy to him for the disgusting act which
he did to his wife, and so he freed her immediately, and bringing
her to bed, Oh you who are all good in this world and have remained
faithful (said the changed Cuckold) Please show mercy on me for the
horrible deed I did to you.

Yes, my dear (answered the sly Slut) Since the Gods have heard my
case and answered with a miracle to show my innocence, I will show
show mercy on all now, especially you.

So then the husband made a promise that from then on out he would not become angry and jealous with
his wife, but let her be free to do what she please. So as you can see how the Cunningness of
an Old Bawn, a young woman was turned into a skank, and an old Dotard a young Cuckold. And also how
all at once she can persuade all these events as she pleases and completely to he Pernicious
Design; showing an answer to the Character of which the Wise-man gave to her, Her ways are
always changing, and therefore one will never know what she will do next. Chap. IV How a Married
Man, drawn in by a Bawd, kept his slut, which would ruin himself and family. The last chapter has
showed us how our Bawd brought in a young wife to deceive her love, and cheat on him. This
chapter shows how she tricks her husband into thinking what she is doing is not wrong, so it ruins
him, his wife, and his entire family. For if she can but Rise, she cares not who she ruins.
 The water level had already risen to seven feet in the vessel. The wind blowing
form the west was driving the vessel towards the vast sea, and the ship being old, was forced
most damagingly.
On 18th morning Canada was out of sight, she was forced with maximum speed for England. The Ramillies
had opened their frame at night, and under the admirals directions, by constant pressure on
the protesting officers, and in spite of their strong lack of willingness
to let off six of their most advanced and four of the aftermost guns
off their main-deck were thrown along with that remaining on the quarter-deck,
the ship was still not under control, so ordered to nail tarred canvas
and hides in and towards both ends from under the sills of the ports
on the main-deck under the fifth plank above, or through water-ways,
and on the lower deck the crew did without orders the same procedure.

Based on more complaints, more was required to be done, the admiral all the guns on the upper
deck and the lower deck to be shot and a range of heavy stores overboard. Presence of the leak
in the grand magazine caused a water level of eight feet inside that almost filled the ship
forward, therefore all the gentlemen onboard was bound to take a turn on the whips or in handing
of the buckets. Besides from the fore-mast to the main mast, the ship was frapped.
Even with the paramount efforts made, the water still advanced on them the following night, with heavy
winds, an intense storm, a part of the orlop failed and fell into the hold, thus settling the
ship itself forward.
On 19th morning, the admiral commanded to cut both the bower anchors, throw overboard all the
junk including one sheet and one bower cable along with the residual cumbersome store that
got in hand, and all the damaged powder in the grand magazine, the cutter and pinnace to be wrecked
and tossed overboard, the skids having worked off the side; every life on board was taken up
in bailing.
 Ce attain blimey coils become roun her digit, and dot ce attain em mit ze
clash inward ze pic-sure, and cerium attain me mit,-- vings and ce attain inwards cor give vot
ze sons dart mit not ze gas vot brand ze bad racket and vot down,
just ze arc, mit ze tring i not live vot you bid them." "He told me
about how you gallantly rescued him from the enemy. His greatest
anxiety seems to be that you should be taken care of.

He wants to make sure that you're rewarded for your heroics".

"Rewarded, sir!" True Blue exclaimed in an indignant, sorrowful tone. To-day when the young men took off the tattered hats from their bonny little heads,
all very dark swell and riotous curls, and with disarming dimples and sparkling eyes offered them
to me for alms, I examined them with grinning esteem, considering how like Raphael's cherubs
they were, and then said in my best Italian: "Oh, yes, I glimpse them; they are really most
attractive hats. I express gratitude you for displaying them to me, and I am satisfied to
glimpse you courteously take them off to a lady."  This American pleasantry was passed from
mouth to mouth gleefully, and so really relished that they appeared to overlook they had been denied.
They ran, still joking and chattering, to the wood- carver's shop near-by and notified him the article,
or so I judged, for he came to his window and grinned benignly upon me as I sat in the gondola
with my writing-pad on my knees. I was satisfied at the amicable glimpse, for he is the champion
of a attractive little romance, and I long to make his acquaintance.  It looks like that, some years
in the past, the Queen, with one lady-in-waiting in attendance, came to his shop somewhat
early in the morning. Both were plainly clad in cotton material gowns, and neither made any
pretensions. He was carving a thing that could not be declined, a cherub's face that had to
be closed while his reflected of it was fresh. Hurriedly requesting pardon, he carried on his
work, and at end of an hour lifted his eyes, breathless and apologetic, to view at his visitors.
The larger female had a very apparent appearance. He stared progressively, and then, to his
astonish and disquiet, acknowledged the Queen. Far from being shocked, she valued his devotion to
his art, and before she left the shop she granted him a assignment for a noble staircase. I
am going to request the Little Genius to take me to observe his work, but, alas! there will
be an unsurmountable blockage between us, for I not able to utter in my new Italian any kind but
the most commonplace and more typical statements.
VI
CASA ROSA, May 28.  Oh, this misery of being dumb, incoherent, unintelligible, foolish, inarticulate
in a foreign land, for need of words! It is unwise, I worry, to have at the outset too high
an perfect either in syntax or accent. The windows of the dungeon had
bars at ground level, like a cellar.
"Father!" Catherine muttered.
"Oh, Kate!" a voice responded, followed by hysterical sobs. Catherine knew it was her father.
"Oh, Kate! If ... if I had just l-listened to you!" he sobbed. Still crying, he told her of
all the details in his interview with the baron. "Couldn't you do anything to get your poor,
dear old father out of prison?" he pleaded.
Catherine thought for a moment. "I'll try, father," she replied. She quickly said goodbye and
hurried off. She ran, not stopping the whole way, to where she remembered the forest cottage
stood. However, the little old man was a Kaboutermanneken, and his visit for the day was finished.
He had descended back into the earth. Catherine was perplexed. Why couldn't she find the cottage again?
She sought it in vain for some time, but finally went home, her hopes dashed. She couldn't sleep
that night, struggling to figure out a way to free her father. Finally, she had an idea. She smiled,
turned on her pillow, and fell asleep until the sun shone through
her window.

She donned her best frock and neatest cap and headed to Castle Dunderhead. She was immediately
taken to the Baron.
"My lord!" she said, falling to her knees.
"Well, fair damsel," he said, admiring her appearance.
"My lord," she said, tears coming to her eyes, "you have imprisoned my father!"
"Ha!" the baron laughed, a frown spreading on his face. "Peter Kurtz?"
"Yes, my lord."
"Bring Peter Kurtz to me!" the baron barked at the guard. A crying Peter was soon brought into
the room and presented to him. "Now that I have both of you here, perhaps you can tell me where your
father got that cup?"
"He was not the one who got it," Catherine replied, wide-eyed. "An old man in the forest gave it
to me."
The baron grunted. "Your father has taught you well," he growled.
"My lord," Catherine interjected, "I came to buy my father's freedom."
The baron laughed. "Have you brought the saucer?"
"No, my lord." She took note of his frown and continued quickly. "But if you free my father, I can
bring you a goose from my home. We have a goose that can lay eggs of gold. I hope you will take this
instead."
The baron's frown turned into a smile, but Peter interrupted.
"Kate," he said, "I don't know about--"
"Quiet!" Catherine snapped at her father.
The baron, assuming that Peter was reluctant to part with such a treasure, became even more eager
to learn more of this goose.
"Do you swear that you have told the truth?" he asked of Catherine.
"I do," she replied.
Peter became irate. "How could you do this?" he shouted at his daughter.

"Quiet!" she repeated sternly.
"He can be free," the baron exclaimed gleefully. "And he can take
the cup as well!" 
"We do not need the cup, my lord," Catherine
replied quickly.  
"Yes we do!" Peter cried, wondering what was
wrong with his daughter and why she was being so stupid. 
"You may
have it!" the baron replied. "Guards, release him!" 
"Another thing,"
Catherine said suddenly. "You must promise in writing to never arrest
my father again in connection with this affair." 
"Of course! It
shall be so!" the baron said. He dismissed them both after bestowing
the golden cup upon Peter, despite Catherine's protestations. 
That
same afternoon. the proclamation came and Catherine took the plump,
gray goose to Castle Dunderhead. 
"Father," she said when she returned
home, "because you took the golden cup, you must leave here. The baron
will always look enviously upon you. If you had left it, he would
have never paid attention to you." 
"Why is that?" Peter asked.
"Didn't he give a promise that he would never arrest me again? And
about that goose--" 
"Never mind the goose," Catherine interrupted.
"Every egg that goose lays shall be of pure gold." The entire of it had been
consumed. The vessel was empty, and yet the young children were not persuaded with their dinner.
"Now I know," said the mother, "why no white baked bread has arrive from the Seminary." Jasmin
was now substantially distressed. "Accursed sweetmeats," he thought. "Oh! what a wretch I am
to have initiated so much misery and distress."
The young children had consumed only a couple of vegetables; and now there was another mouth
to fill. The blaze had nearly expired for desire of fuel. The young children had no baked bread that day,
for the Seminary loaf had not arrived. What were they now to do? The mother endured fiendish tortures
in not being adept to give her young children baked bread, particularly on the home-coming of her
very well liked scapegrace.  t last, after glimpsing at her left hand, she increased suddenly.
She called out in a beaming voice, "Wait patiently until my return." She put her Sunday kerchief
on her head, and departed. In a short time she returned, to the great delight of the young
children, with a loaf of baked bread under her arm. They joked and sang, and arranged to relish their
feast, though it was only of bread. The mother evidently connected in their cheerfulness, though
a miserable agony gnawed at her heart.

Jasmin glimpsed his mother conceal her hand; but when it was essential
for her to slash the loaf, after producing the traverse as asserted
by made-to-order, he glimpsed that the ring on her left hand had disappeared.

"Holy Cross," he considered, "it is factual that she has traded her wedding-ring to purchase
baked bread for her children." This was a wretched innovation of life for the broke boy. He was
now another consignment on the family. Old Boe had gone, and could no longer assist him with
his savoury morsels. He was so oppressed with grief, that he could no longer play with his
comrades as before. But Providence again joined his aid. The good Abbe Miraben perceived the
story of his expulsion from the Seminary. Though a boy may be tricky he cannot be faultless,
and the priest had much compassion on him. Knowing Jasmin's intellectual powers, and the poverty
of his parents, the Abbe adapted his consequence to accept an admission for him to one of the
town's educational institutions, where he was again enabled to carry on his education.
The good Abbe was practical to the boy in many ways. One after dark, after Jasmin was on his way
to the Augustins to read and recite to the Sisters, he was waylaid by a troop of his old playfellows.
 The horses were very tired and underfed, having had little to eat for the last couple
of days besides the native scrub, and so we decided to give them a few days of rest while we
had a look at the river-mouth. Mr. Bedart and I followed the stream south-west and reached the
sea after about six hours in the saddle. The countryside was very uninteresting, apart from the
flats; the hills were all sand and sandstone, with a coating of scrubby bushes and an unusually
large variety of grass, which was too sharp and pointed for the horses to eat and often stabbed
us in the legs when we weren't careful. We named it bayonet grass.
 Windbreaks are essential for this purposes. I make them of three rows of box,
elder or Osage orange. I cut it with saw or knife for thin of the top. Then i fertilize my soil
with yard litter and some ashes. Scatter the ground soil. He introduced them as Skye and a Yorkshire terrier. Skye had a lethargic aire,
relaxing into the pocket with only a small portion of his face peering out. The Yorkshire was
the complete opposite, with boundless energy and sass, in his new Ulster coat of brown with a
scarlet braid accent.

With full excitement, he started into Charley's pockets in search of a shilling. When his search
became futile, the gentlemen, noticing the Yorkshire's despair, offered his own pocket; which
the terrier tore into enthusiastically and eventually emerged with a shiny shilling gripped
firmly by his teeth. His purpose, according to his master, was to deliver the shilling to the
cake shop where he would be rewarded by the baker with a cake. Then
off he would trot,to comfortably fulfill his sweet tooth at home. Il. I. 146, XXI 589, of Persons: "Od." xiv. 552, of things.
Pind. Pyth. iv. 140; Isth 7 (6), 30.
Here is other ways and means; On which strategy do you expect your profits to flow more copiously--by
keeping your own private capital (4) employed, or by means made to make the resources of the entire
state more productive?
(4) Reading idia, al. idia, = your capital selected privately.
(5) Lit. every citizens alike, every individual member of the state.
Next is to speak of that which people hold to be the stem & flower of different institutions, a pursuit
that is noble in itself and best going to a great man--I mean the art of developing chariot-horses
(6)--which would reflect the greater character on you, that you (7) should train and send to the
great get togethers (8) more chariots than any Hellene else? or otherwise that your state should
market more racehorse-breeders than the rest of the competition, that from Syracuse the biggest
number should enter to compete for the prize?
(6) Cf. Platform Law
(7) Breit. cf. Pind. Ol. i. 82; "Pyth." i. 173;
(8) Our solemn festivals, e.g. those taken place at Olympia, Delphi, the Isthmus, Nemea.
What would you call the nobler conquest--to win a victory by virtue of a chariot, or to achieve
a people's happiness, that state of which you are the head and chief? And for me, I hold it
that becomes a tyrant person to enter the lists with selected citizens. Take the case they win,
they will not be admired for it, but be envied instead, when is is thought how many fortunes
go to swell the stream of their expenditures; while if he does not win, he will become a laughing-stock
to all. (9)
(9) Or, "you will be taunted and ridiculed at past for all precedence," as history shows was the
fate of Dionysus, 388 or 384 BC; and for the connection between that circumstance and this treatise
see Lys. Olymp; and Professor Jebb's studies on the fragment.
No, no! I tell you, Hiero, your battlefield, your true arena is with the champion presidents
of rival states, above whose lesser heads be it your destiny to raise
this state, of which you are the patron and supreme head, to some
unprecedented height of fortune, which if you shall achieve, be certain
you will be approved victorious in a contest the noblest and the most
stupendous in the world.

Since what follows? In the first place, you will by one swift stroke have brought about the very
thing you have set your heart on, you will have won the affection of your subjects. Secondly,
you will need no herald to proclaim your victory; not one man only, but all mankind, shall
hymn your virtue.
Wherever you set foot you shall be looked upon, and not only by citizens alone, but by a hundred states
be cordially welcomed. You shall be a marvel, not in the private group only, but in broad daylight of
all.
It will be available to you, so as safety is concerned, to take your journey where you will to see
the games or other events; or it shall be available to you to reside in your home, and still
grasp your object.
Before you shall be brought together daily, an assembly, an amazing company of people willing
to provide whatever each may happen to possess of wisdom, value,
or beauty; (10) and another group of people eager to do you service.
Present, regard them each and all as pledged allies; or absent, know
that each and all have one purpose, to see you.  
(10) The end will
be clear and soon, you shall not be loved just by one, but followed
loyally, by human beings. You will not need to impress the fair but
to endure the enforcement of their love. Ether was written about very provacatively by Sir Oliver Lodge; among other
things, he claimed that it's inherent energy equalled that of what a million-killowatt generator
could produce in 30 million years, and that this energy exists, untapped by us, in every inch of
space. As amazing as this is, it is probably still an underestimation.
If this is the case, however, how it is possible that human beings are even able to lift their
limbs in a solid that is, Lodge claims, multiple orders of magnitude denser then platinum? It is actually
not so far to imagine the answer to this: that substances with difference densities can actually
permeate eachother quite easily. So just as water can pass through fabric, so can ether pass
through a solid mass--even a physical body. A ghost and a living human may walk right through
one another, and neither know it's happened. These being, these "astral forms," can walk through
a wall, a rock, a tree just as easily as you or I walk through the air. And we living creature
remain unconscious of these astral ones because, since our beings are governed by LOGOS, we can only
sense others that are also of this type. We can see and feel and experience only those forms that
are manifestations of God. The Minute Book on January 12th, 1673 assured that the members “consented
that Mr. Riveley and Mr. Morley should attend upon the court to carry their Order for appointing
the time for the Ministers Meeting at the Library for future to be
upon the first Tuesday in every month.” They were grated the request.

The Court ordered ‘36s to be paid for six Russia leather chairs
for the City Library,” on 29th March, 1673.

{8}
There is not a regular entry of receipts issued for fees and charges, but there are occasional
records of receipts and payments throughout the Minute Book. there was an entry under March
3, 1684, as follows: “The account of your last year was stated, this day. 4ll 3s & 4d and had expended
4l 11s 10d--due to Him 8s 6d." were received by the Library keeper.
 I dressed as I did in Amazone seemed
to have delighted them, and when I arrived at the nether garments shop of my horse riding-habit, they
all bursted into laughter. Anyway I put a heavy face and ventured every corner of the village where
I found the rest of our party. Our horses were being alternately led up and down by the soldiers,
camels with water in goat's skins, baggage beasts, our camp followers, and our free-lances, were drawn
up on one side The location of Ston Easton
House is very select. Nearby is the community of Stowell, and just a bit further out is Templecombe.

The
house iself has oak panel and ceiling work which is probably made from the trees in the woods which
grace the grounds. Some of the features are very old and the area has connections with an ancient
water source in the area.
 While she was fetching it I remembered a vision of final evening which I had meant
to tell her this morning.
But why do so? A vision is of no bill even to the dreamer. Still, the song might have prepared
her laugh. But why must laughter be bothered about?
 That was kind of tongue-drill and nerve-quieting recommended and implemented for
several hours a day, through weary months, by a certain Mr. C., while Dr. P., the well-appointed
successor "patient" has, first, emulcents, and then styptics, and fortunately was prevented
in time by my father in some surgical experiments on the lips and tongue muscles. However, no
one could heal me until I healed, but rather, let me confess with humility and gratitude,
until God answered the prayer continues, health, and gave strong body, and gave me good success in
my literary life, and made me feel it was equal in speech, as now, the most fluent of my peers.
So let every stutterer (and there are many such) take comfort from my healing, and pray against
problems like I said, and brave stand against the crowd to claim the prerogative of heaven and
earth proudest man - privilege expression. In my Proverbial Essay "talk" will be found two
contrasted pictures drawn from my own experiences: one stutterer stifled other wayward speaker:
you can still make you. However as some of my old after uttering sighs are not equally accessible,
I give here a few lines of mine from "halting the complaint, medical book printed in one of
my Galens -
"... And is it not really a poisoned sting of every social joy, as
a thorn in the flesh writhing rankles, a drop of fresh bile every
national, a minor irritant misery, - that I could forget I like to
talk a fullness of my thoughts and burning?

 So far, we can credit - but what man of common
sense can believe that Richard was publicly defamed the honor of his own mother? The mother, the
Duchess of York widow Cecilia, a princess of impeccable character grew up, they were two of her
daughters, Suffolk and the Duchess of Burgundy, sister of Richard, one of them, Duchess of
Suffolk was crowned, and his son Earl of Lincoln was from Richard himself after the death of
his son, declared heir to the crown. Hamilton, whose instinct for the law appeared to genius, he saw
the difficulty and pointed out in the Federalist is not a script that can offer protection, but
only the intelligence and sense of justice of the community.  "The truth is that the general
genius of a government is all that can be substantially relied upon for permanent effects. Special
provisions, but not entirely useless, have far less virtue and efficacy than is commonly attributed
to them, and lack of them never will be, with men of sound discernment, a decisive objection
to any plan that presents the main characters of good government. "After an experience of
almost a century and a quarter, we must admit, I think, that Hamilton was right . In the United
States bills have made the limitations of constitutional law and an end, and yet, I suppose
that few care to maintain that during the nineteenth century, the life and property were safer in the United
States crime or a better way, than in England, France or Germany. The opposite, in fact, I
think it is the truth, and I think a major cause of this imperfection in the justice system
is found to have been the performance of the written Constitution. Because under the U.S.
system, the constitution or fundamental law, is described by the judges, and this function,
which in essence is political, has brought just that the quality of the pressure in the bank has
been the work a hundred generations of our ancestors to be removed. In general, the result has
been to raise the policy but lower courts to the political level, a result that conforms to the
theory a priori.
The abstract virtue of the Constitution was written, however, a relevant question, when Washington
and his contemporaries were set to reorganize the Confederacy. The men had no choice but to draft
a kind of platform on which the states could agree to unite, if they were to unite peacefully
at all, and therefore met in the convention and drew the best way to agreement could, but I more than
suspect that a good number of very capable federalists were very sensitive to defects in the
plan have been approved.
Hamilton was opened to prefer the English model, and I am not aware that Washington never expressed
a preference for the theory that, because of a written fundamental law, the court should annul
the legislation. Nor is it remarkable that all foreigners, after a long and careful observation
of our experiment, have been avoided. Since 1789, all highly civilized Western people have readjusted
their institutions at least once, even do not have in this regard, we followed suit, while all
have borrowed freely from the parliamentary system in England [6].
Even our neighbor, Canada, without adverse traditions and a population
similar to ours, has been an exception to the rule.

Canadian courts in fact define the boundaries of provincial and federal
jurisdiction established in accordance with an Act of Parliament,
but not intended to limit the exercise of power when the seat of power
has been established.

I take the cause of this distrust to be evident. Although our written Constitution succeeded
in its primary purpose of facilitating the consolidation of the Confederacy, has not inspired
confidence in another way as a device of administrative practice. Not only has the constant
judicial interference dislocated scientific law, but has given the judiciary into the vortex
of civil faction has been degraded in popular esteem. In short, from the beginning, the American
bank, because it is the closest of political issues, has been a necessary tool for political success.
Consequently, political parties have struggled to control, and therefore the bank has always
had a declared partisan bias. The stated political or social bias, I gather, raised among the
American people believe that justice is not administered equally to all men, so the bank does not respect
us, for example, in Britain, where law and politics are separate.
 He literature, plays, lectures and mirrors.  VOL. 13, No. 350. Saturday, JANUARY 3, 1829.
[Price two-dimensional.
* * * * * Of
Bruce Castle, Tottenham.
It is interesting, as shown in the structure represents a piece of 1686 years; Print and copy photos
to and from the Wolridge.
Based on the original castle appears as a very ancient and deep wells were above the upper part
of the old brick tower was used as a dairy. Earl Waltheof castle said to have been built by
man, married 1069, Judith, William the Conqueror, for his part of her status of being the
Countess of Huntingdon equivalent nosaempeuteongwa nephew.

Scotland Matilda or Maud, their only child, Simon St. Liz, her first husband, married David, the
name of the first after the death of the King, and Maud, Huntingdon's welfare heiress, in her own
right, as an appendix to have that honor, the manor of Tottenham in Middlesex.
Robert Bruce, David, Earl of Huntingdon, and Robert I of Scotland, the country restored its
independence in the memory of his grandfather's grandson, but one contender for the crown of
Scotland in 1290 as being replaced by John Baliol, Bruce in the UK, retirement and Tottenham
Hotspur in the settlement from the grandfather's property, availability of repair and acquired
another manor, you called it after his name availability. Shakspeare says
Rise of hearts crown soonest fear God,
The Bruces and the property "is a strong resolve to the Bible."
The crown being deprived of property, that is, until 1631, when Hugh maybe, God has other carriers
in possession of Coleraine. Henry Hair 'is, finally, Lord Coleraine his family, his wife, who obstinately
refused by the 20 years, to return to geureulro, uninhabited doeeotgie Miss Roze Duplessis, a
French woman, by whom he had a daughter connection with the formation of Italy, he called Henrietta
Roza Peregrina, and was born and to whom he left all his property. This lady was married to late
Mr Townsend, president, international, and she could not take the
property, and legally created and will, the heirs of the law bars
jilreotjiman; to crown the property escheated.

However, the behavior of these lands to the National Assembly for confirmation of the grant,
Mr. Townsend and his wife, whose son, Henry, Hair Townsend, Esq been made. 1792, families voluntarily
sell property for payment of debts, and "sex, but soon leveled to the ground, yet the destruction
of the ancient fabric geureuleul will acquire more respect, more active if you have prudence of
his ancestors, who now remains the only one. "[1] to restore three buildings
[1] is Gough's Camden.
Currently part of the mansion, some of the ancient and modern, and
very recently, William Curtis, Bart was the property. The period in
which to express a piece of castle building, a tower on the left side,
and two 8-square and the central tower, will prove to have undergone
many changes. This leads us to the mysterious power of body language.
Gestures so subtle that they only are recorded by our unconscious mind, yet lend such force to
the ordinary dialogue of talented actors. If we deconstruct the rules of this practice, it only
to be impressed with elegance of simple perfection. Mark how the animal grabbed the cup - the heavens
he will break into thousands of pieces! See how he bows his head to respond to heavy freight half
glorious, as unmeaning slobbers drink his esophagus, and clamps down the glass, so close to breaking
its stem after it has emptied its contents as if it was Jalapa or castor oil! I call that taking
a glass of wine? Sir, it is to put wine in your esophagus as you would put beer in a small
barrel, - but not - Oh, no! it is taking, so enjoy a glass of red port, rich or bright, warm
colors, beautiful caveza!
A newly married couple are invited to a wedding dinner. Although lady probably run with a person
below her in rank and station, see when they enter the room, as it behaves differently .-- How
gracefully recover fine head waves from reverence withdrawal and
nice to reach for individual grinning bald-pated with her on the carpet!

While poor spoon, her husband looked at, with the white of his eyes turned as if he were great evil,
and his hands dangle dangle in the thighs, as if trying to lift their feet . See how the ducks at
Mrs. House, and simpers in place to fire his wife, who currently is a vivid account of the state of
roads, and near the borders postilions polite.
It is a little man? Let him always, if possible, lean. We are sometimes tempted to lay sprawling
in the mud scholars from five feet to five feet eight, which carries the head back on the extreme
edge of their back-bone, and gape up at the sky as if they hated ground very. Do not wear heels
a little man of iron. When we visit a friend of our Queen Street we are disturbed by our labors
or conversation of a well-timed sound that resembles a file march of infantry or a troop of
dismounted dragoons
 A
third problem needed to be cleared up before all could be considered settled between all nations
concerned with fishing the great Banks adjacent to the United Kingdom. Although the waters of
the Banks are considered open sea and fishing is permitted for all,
Great Britain retained sovereignty over coastal waters and her own
ports and there were no rights guaranteed any other nations for usage
thereof.

The Treaty of 1783 was null and void unless an agreement could be
struck on this matter between contesting nations.

 I promise that I will punish you to the full extent of the law until you reveal the location
of your breakthrough.
Malchus begged, "in God's name, I will respond if you tell me where Emperor Decius went."

The clergyman replied, "No such person exits; the man who went by that name perished a long time
back."
"The more I hear, the more confused I become," replied Malchus. "Come, and I will introduce you
to my compatriots, who only a day ago have absconded with me in one of the hollows of Mount
Celion to avoid Decius's mercilessness. I will take you there."
The clergyman turned to the politician. "God's hand is evident here,"
he said. Next, they followed, and many came behind them. The politician
went first into the cave to his friends, followed by the clergyman. She had been with us some instant,
when one morn we had a traveler travel to expend the day at Beecham. This islamist was not old,
yet she had the most creased, older tackling I e'er saw. When she was destroyed, Harry, who never
minded what he said, asked grandmamma virtually her, and cried out in assail when he heard that
she had been his own dysphemism's associate.
"You conceive Mrs. Mowbray looks someone as old as papa, do you?" said grandmamma. "Ah, it is
travail that has senior her. You would not amazement at all those lines and wrinkles if you knew all the
sadness and heartache her own bust boys tally assumption her finished
their sin and wilfulness!"

Lottie and I looked at each new, and then glanced slily at Miss Subsidization, but I don't conceive
she detected us. When we were uncomparable again, we resolved that we would try e'er so rigorous
to be complete.
"Because, you jazz, Milquetoast, it wouldn't be prissy if Missy Allocate were to get her surface
all wrinkled and creasy similar that, fair as if it wanted ironing out, as Susette did with my
frock when River scrunched it all up under his put to conceal it. But I assume you couldn't
iron out your surface!"
Anyway, I agreed with Lottie not to run any risks, and I do not opine we did. At small, all my
memories of that felicitous gathering at Beecham are mingled with the pearlescent, merry, light mortal
who made light all the lessons that could be uncomplicated, and gave me spirit for those that
had to be stonelike; and against whose edge I favourite to set, and pore to Bible-stories with
those younger hints in them which e'er set me cerebration of my own faults and duties, and prefab
me elongated to do  honourable, and be the salutary small Christian
girl she wished me to be.

Immature order, good, are you making lines on anybody's forehead?
VII.
HURRAH FOR THE HOLIDAYS!
And yet, nonetheless pleasurable lessons mightiness be, there is no uncertainness that holidays
were enjoyable things, too. Weekday afternoons were e'er welcomed, and all the weeks through we
were thinking what we would do when they came. Of series these plans were sometimes shape by
a pluvial day; but, still then, what with racket and shuttle, spraying and spinning tops, we stilted
to sort out the reading really jubilantly.
And before us all the piece was the twinkling, pleasurable individual of the lengthy summer holidays.

Every now and then during these paradisial months the content of abode came crossways me, and
sometimes one of mother's letters would mortal in it so overmuch almost Bobby and his endeavor,
and his cackle about Coward's future backmost, that I grew a young home-sick and looked wistfully
into grandmamma's braving as she see the owner. This would ever modify her say: "You don't
deprivation to go home, little one? Aren't you really glad here with Lottie and the boys? And
you are effort on so nicely with your books, too; mamma is so content to jazz you with so umpteen
minuscule schoolfellows,  and sort Lose Painter to teach you! And we are feat to feature all kinds of idyllic
treats in the holidays. No, no, we must enter you added period or two! Perhaps we faculty channelise
you residence when the refrigerant withstand comes!" So I ran away again to represent plans
with Lottie virtually all the some things that moldiness be through the very basic day of no
lessons.
Then came the subterminal minute of history, and the conclusion dreadful sums, and the parthian
repeat scrivened, and the conclusion tumid French line learnt, and then, happiest of all, the
fashionable swing inaccurate of books and improvement of slates! It virtually makes me stand
that elongated rest for joy flush now exclusive to refer that  happy day.
"And don't you imagine I'm the happiest of us all?" said Lack Contract; "I am the exclusive
one truly deed residence for the holidays!"
Which statement was a zealous aid to my short intention, for I had been claustrophobic we staleness
seem a outstanding dealing too gladsome that she was feat. Now I could risk on my very loudest
"cheer," which, after all, was but a feeble counterfeit of the boys' earsplitting cheers.
You know, hopefulness is the good air of every pleasure; in easier
words, everything looks brighter before it comes than when it is originate.
I think that was very nearly the happiest day of my entire assemblage
at Beecham, when I sat on the room watching the senior things put
into Miss Present's box, and noise departed around the felicitous
days upcoming. You see, for a semipermanent indication I had got up
every period with the mentation of how more  ripe businessman I should
get, and of how those calculating letters and figures were to be made,
and tho' I had prefabricated more a brave aggressiveness and won umpteen
a pleasing triumph over the books, yet it was rattling nice to cerebrate
that to-morrow I should insomniac with the holiday idea instead. A kerosene lamp has been unjustly blamed
for many accidents, although it does need special care in order not to be knocked over. That's
why these lamps are involved in more fires than electric lights. It's the carelessness of the people
around. Fire insurance providers know this, and their statistics show that these lamps cause
many more fires than other kinds of lights.

There won't be any danger to it if the lamp is made right with a close fitting wick and it's
put out by lowering the flame and blowing across its chimney. Then only breaking or overturning
will result in a problem.
Mineral is used today in oil lamps and it has a flashing point higher than 75 degrees F. Petrolium
is dangerous because it contains  highly volatile ingredients that combust at ordinary temperatures.
Kerosene is a mineral oil that needs not to be too volatile and therefore shouldn't emit a flammable
vapor at less than 120 degrees F. It should rest in its reservoir
and then be drawn up to the burner to be used correctly. 
Then it
is turned by the flame's heat into a hydrogen/hydrocarbon gas mix
that is consumed by the air's oxygen. If this is done correctly, carbon
dioxide and water vapor are the end result. Actually,I dont know additional scriptwriter who could have re-told attractive English romance
with such gentleness and such command ,neither losing the attraction of the old tale nor forgetting
the circumstances of the new form. The sentiment of the poet and the science of the dramatist
are elegantly balanced in it. For though in text it is a poem, and while a poem it is also
a play.
But propitious as Mr. Wills has been in the selection of his subject and in his treatment of
it, he is also lucky in the actors who infer his job. Throw Celimene into the latest
of genuine passion--I do not mean the brutality of Alceste--I shall wager that coquetry shall
be dusted away via love. I had such religion within mine that I idea towards be able towards
limit the moment when I should dub myself winning and sure of being obeyed.
"You know that depression and ennui were conceived etiquette last winter, within a certain culture,
which was thrown into mourning via the July revolution. Reunions were very few; there were none
balls or soirees; dancing within drawing-rooms towards the piano was barely permissible, even
with sexual friends. When once I was installed within Mademoiselle de Corandeuil's drawing-room
upon a friendly footing, this cessation of worldly festivities provided me an opportunity towards
see Clemence within a rather sexual way.
"It would rob too long towards tell you already everybody the thousand and one little incidents
which compose the history of everybody passions. Profiting via her coquetry, which made her obtain
me kindly within order towards earn me expiate my success thereafter,
my relish for her was soon an realised thing between us; she listened
towards me within a mocking distance, but did not argue my right towards
speak.

She ended via obtaining my alphabet, as soon as being restrained towards do so across a course
of plans within which, actually, I indicated incredible invention. I was listened towards and
she read my letters; I asked for nothing more.
"My relish, from the former, had been her secret as well as mine; but every day I made towards
sparkle a number of abrupt facet of this prism of a thousand colors. Even as soon as telling
her a hundred moments how much I adored her, my relish still had for her the attraction of the
unknown. I genuinely had something inexhaustible within my heart, and I was sure, within the end,
towards intoxicate her with this philtre, which I constantly poured out and which she drank,
whilst making sport of it want a child.
"One day I located her thoughtful and silent. Melt a lump of butter about the size of a tangerine, and squeeze
the juice from half a lemon on it. A good way to get more juice from the lemon is to boil the
lemon for about five minutes. Put a pound of small mushrooms into the melted butter, and then
stir them constantly to keep them from burning. In three or four minutes, put the saucepan
further on the fire and let it boil for a few minutes. Remove and drain the mushrooms and sprinkle
them with flour. Moisten the mushrooms with gravy and season to taste before putting them
back in the butter to stir in the yolk of one egg along with the remaining lemon juice. At the
same time, have someone cut, butter and toast some bread. Pour the mushrooms on the bread, and
serve hot.
POMMES CHATEAU
Preheat the oven to a very hot temperature, and cut twenty potatoes into an olive shape. Boil
the potatoes in salted water for five minutes. Drain the potatoes and put them in a baking disk
with salt and butter. Put the baking dish in the preheated over for about thirty mintues,
while turning occassionally. Garnish with chopped parsley, and serve hot.
CHIPPED POTATOES
Peel some long-shaped potatoes, and cut them into thin rounds.
Heat the grease while drying the slices of potato with a cloth. Put the potatoes into the frying
basket, and lower them into your heated grease. Remove potatoes when they are a golden-brown color,
and let the grease heat to a slightly higher temperature than you bagin with. Place the potatoes
back into the grease until they become crispy. Sprinkle with salt, and serve.
CHICORY A LA FERDINAND
Boil some cream, and add chopped up chicory, and some chives. Add salt and peper, and pour into a dish.
Decorate with chopped hard-boiled eggs.
APPLES AND SAUSAGES
Originating from Belgium, this dish suprises a lot of people. Fry a pound of beef sausage in
butter. Keep the sausages hot after frying them, then pare and core a pound of brown pippin apples.
Cut them into quarter inch thick rounds, and cook them in the grease from the sausages. Add
butter to the sausage grease and apples to moisten the mixture.

Simmer gently so that they do not loose their shape.

Place the apples in the middle of a dish, and surround with sausages.
STUFFED CHICORY 
Start cooking the chicory by using thread to tie
them in order to keep them firm. Boil the chicory for about ten minutes,
then drain them well. Use a mince of any cold white meat (including
veal, pork, or chicken), and add it to some minced ham. Use a thick
white sauce to sprinkle the mixture. Split the chicory lengthwise
very carefully, and put a spoonful of the mince inside. Close the
chicory while keeping the leaves neat, and re-tie them if necessary. On February 13th, the man was released. Even though he was committed to prison
because he couldn't pay, someone paid the money for him.

Doubleday, an British Museum employee undertook, the restoration of the Vase, and effected.
It is now available to see at the Gold Room of the British Museum.“all the King’s horses, and
all the King’s men,” can never make it as it was. The copies
are now worth £200 each, could be more, was made in silver. There
feebly reproduced in ceramic ware. Verily, thou hast read of Christ's Apostles wherein they
were executed as part of persecutions against Christians partaken by rulers of Persia and other
nations. Speak now of who is more deserved of being called martyrs, those, or thy compatriots who
die struggling for the secular order and the power invested therein? How multitudinous were the
atrocities and methods of murder perpetrated against the Christian faithful! But it was for naught
as the greater the numbers of the slain, the even greater the number of souls newly converted;
where one fell, a hundred sprang up.
One day, as preparations were made to put to death a large host, one soul in an audience with the
King, said "Our numbers increaseth despite that thou thinkest, they diminish." "How can this be?"
cried the King. "Only yesterday," answered the courtier, "thou didst execute so-and-so, and, and
behold, two more were subsequently converted; and it has been said that a heavenly messenger
visited the confessors bolstering them in their final moments." With this, the King himself converted.
In those times, men did not cling so much to their lives. Some were spellbound while still
alive; others suffered the loss of their limbs, severed one after another; some were put in with
wild animals, and others were burnt in a pyre. This went on for a long time, being the fate
of those who confessed Christ as Lord. Such was not to be found in any other religion heretofore;
and all such persecutions were tolerated faithfully and even joyfully. The faithful smiled
even as he experienced great pain. * * * * *
CHINESE NOVELS.
The Chinese have the opinion that the pinnacle of human happiness is the uniting of three individuals
who are brought together by a similarity of tastes and personalities, this happy arrangement
is considered heaven sent as a reward for their great merits. With this viewpoint in mind Chinese
novel writers regularly plot the story so as to achieve this happy situation for their heroes
by the end of the tale. A calamity like this is considered the most fitting conclusion possible.

This arrangement could be considered extremely advantageous, though
we wouldn't go as far as risking our lives as the German divines did
when they suggested a mob in Stockholm that polygamy was defendable.

This method of ending the story allows the writer to avoid the common endings of suicide or
death by romantic disease, as we might when nearing the tales end with two heroines to chose
from and allows him to satisfy all his characters. Would we not be in tears to learn that the
imaginative Clementina had perished while will-some Corinna had survived. Characters such as Oswald or
Grandison himself could have been spared their pains. Several centuries before the Europeans the
Chinese had invented the historical and domestic novel. This type of story showed the progress
their society was making away from the earlier products of supernatural tales, great epics or fables.
Now readers are moved to consider the conflicts of passions and interests, the differing of
opinions and everyday domestic life.
* * * * *
HERO OF A CHINESE NOVEL.
A young man around fifteen or sixteen years old emerged wearing a light cape and a violet coloured
robe.
His bright red lips, gleaming white teeth and high curving eyebrows gave him the appearance of
a beautiful girl.
It would be possible to conjecture that he was a spirit rather than a mortal since his movements
were so light and graceful.
He was like a wood nymph created from flowers or a being that had arrived from heavenly realms.
Is it even a youth man who has emerged or just a heavenly fragrance wafting from the apartment?
--Ibid
* * * * *
BEES.
Before putting a swarm of bees in a hive there has long been a custom that first the hive must
be rubbed inside with sweet herbs or grasses along with some clover
and salt. 
It is not clear why since the bees will be forced to
clean the hive of all this unwelcome debris before they can settle
and begin work. Bees are happiest in a clean hive that has no strange
odours, they will also labour to make a hive air tight blocking every
chink of light that shines through gaps, you can save them a lot of
work by making the hive well joined together. 
Another practice
that we think should be stamped out is the making of a clamour with
metal kettles and pans when bees swarm. It is not known if it started
as a superstition or a call for aid. Although it doesn't seem to upset
the bees it tends to make it harder to deal with the real work of
managing the bees.--American Farmer's Manual. 
* * * * * 
CONVENT
GARDEN MARKET. We must commit to memory the creator for every penny spent. One of the demys at the
chapel was to say everyday, after the mass, "Anima fundatoris nostri
Willielmi, et animae omnium fidelium defunctorum, per miscricordiam
Dei in pace requiescat." Naturally all of this data I obtained myself.
During the break I was shocked when a court attendant brought some refreshments from the judge's
own table with his Lordship's praises. It dawned upon me that the treatment being given was that
of a guest instead that of a prisoner.
 

Should you be considering your parent, do not contribute anything to him. Do not concede the smallest
penny, and, if the requirement so arises, auction him.
Donate only to get back.
Geniuses are foolish, the really wonderful people have learnt how
to generate capital, and capital bequeaths power - the power of generating
surplus capital. we shall not interfere with the anatomical tailors whose science
that we will not understand. Also not about the Greek tailors as we are not free to take such liberty.We
shall not meddle with Hebrew tailors either as we are only gentile ourselves.Our aim is to
introduce a person whose name is Mr.Mcdonald and is a neighbour of ours, who does does not mix up
with science and only know his mother tongue which is broad Scotch. He wanted to be a master in his craft.
At that time some thoretical mode of cutting was there to make the coat fit like a second skin.
Our neighbour had a practical thinking. So he proceeded with a mew method to keep up with the
competition between his fellow craftsmen. In his opinion the essential thing required to make
a perfect suit is an accurate apparatus to measure the human figure, rather than principles
and theories. Thus he made a new machine which measures human figure accuratley We only able to
watch the machine a few days ago even though the machine received a great favour when exhibited
in the school of art some time ago. The machine is made with three perpendicular pieces of wood
, the centre one with six to seven feet high and a plinth to stand upon.It is marked from top
to bottom with inches and subdivisions of inch, and with slides fitting closely but movable
if the operator think so. The appearance of a man when he places himself in the machine resembles
the crucifixation except instead of extended arms they hang motionless by his sides with the
fingers pointed.
 Over 200 of the
biggest were given all the chances for representation that they could have requested, and,
as a result, nearly every town in the land having a population of
10,000 has a nearly full account. The captain abruptly put it, “the slob is a bit late”, though I knew
it is Midsummer’s Day.
The great field of leftover pans before the broad Atlantic were drove by the storm of two days
ago blowing in from there and packed them tight against the cliffs. Had that sudden change
in the weather’s mind yesterday had not occurred, we should not
be thus far along as we are now. 
As the steamer pushes her way
through the ice jam, you can never understand or describe how a person
feels. In some parts, but there are exceptions to this
observation.
Education has been inspected, as some of the most outstanding one might expect in a society that
had been so highly respected in the shade. We apprehend the benefits first, prospective, and
can be defined in a second generation, which currently are only small. White has been and remains
the most educated Mexicans, due no doubt that his greatest asset and have access to official
status. The mass of ignorance, but among all classes is inconceivable that someone who only
moved the main countries of Europe. Nor is it limited to the lower classes, but among the highest
protection in society.

We heard a venerable canon of the metropolitan church seriously wonder whether it was possible
to reach London, except for sailing on the Thames. And we knew very pretty, pleasant young
man, moves in circles first, I could not write a single letter at the age of seventeen. It
has since married and has, we are informed, have been taught to write with her husband, not
a Mexican. The religion of all classes much like the Indians, and the moral practice and the
general tone of society is by no means refined. If half of the scandalous stories circulating
is true, the rows above with Paris in the worst times, and this is no serious doubt to a degree
that surprised even a resident of Madrid. The confidentiality of any subject addressed in the first
excited feelings of a most unpleasant English, gradually decreasing the frequency of reviews
by young and old, in high and low, of both sexes .-- Foreign Quarterly Review.
* * * * *
Notes from a reader.
* * * * *
New work by Sir Walter Scott.
We launched this gem small descriptive of Sir Walter Scott's "Anne of Geierstein," just published.
An overview of this beautiful novel is in a supplement to the current number of mirror.
"The old tower Geierstein, but neither the scale nor the merit of the architectural ornamentation,
had a terrible aura of dignity of his position on the edge of the
other side of the river just at the angle of the rock where they are
located ruins themselves, collapsed on a waterfall nearly a hundred
feet high, then crashing through a gorge through solid rock, perhaps
the waves has been deepening since the time it had a beginning. Orientation,
while , looking down in this eternal roar of the water, stood the
old tower, built so close to the edge, supporting pillars, which the
architect has strengthened the foundation, seemed a part of the solid
rock itself, and then its perpendicular rise. The consciousness of a man
who neither he look like a horse thief nor a criminal, but tried to laugh, half-apologetically,
half-bitterly, aked a womans help. The woman quickly hurried to the house and said trusting you,
that you don't tell any one and having seen me, and suddenly said "Come and this side". The woman
moved fifty yards away and deliberately and moved towards bam, by then the man understood the
woman and slipped in to her side half-creeping and crouching like a dog behind her skirt. When
the woman reached the house with half-door opened and quickly closed it and turning away there
came a faint rapping from. She wanted to tell it was the man who had insulted, and opened the
door impatiently. When the fugitive made a blunder and the doorwas shut sharply. The uncertain
sex and the importation did not helped him.When she had entered her house and saw her husband
and quitely returned to the dish-washing, and absorbed in splicing a raiata and glanced in excitment
from the room evidently not missed her.Her movements were mechanically perfectand deliberate,
in some abstraction were here and there, and looked careless and seemed inattentive. While
the dish wash performing she had a look at the man, she left in the bam.When the wind around
the house with drifting cloud and a quick shout before the door and the clatter of hoofs.
When her husband reached the from the inner room as quickly as to find two armed mounted men-one
of whom ira and they recognized as sheriff's deaputy was passing on the road. When he has seen that the
man asked his wife did anybody here just now? and she replied "No",
but he continued "Seen any body go by" asked sharply.

 Since opposite poles on magnets attract each other and similar poles repel, it
follows that the north pole of a permanent magnet will be repelled by the north pole of the
electromagnet, and will swing over to its south pole. If the direction the current flows is
reversed by reversing the battery, the polarity of the electromagnet is also reversed. The
end of the permanent magnet would then swing to the other side. This is shown in the two diagrams
in Fig. 7. As explained earlier, this device is a relay, so it repeats transmitted signals
into a local circuit. For this, there is a contact at D and a backstop at E. The contact is
opened and closed by the swinging permanent magnet, thus opening and closing the local circuit.

If
something like a polar relay is going to be used to receive telegraph messages, there obviously
must be a convenient way to rapidly transpose the direction of the current flow. This can be
done by using an instrument called a pole-changer. A pole-changer is basically a moveable contact
piece connected permanently to the ground - grounded - and set up so that it can connect either
of the poles to the battery while simultaneously grounding the other. This is done by moving
the electromagnet's armature by manipulating an ordinary telegraph key. This can be done by
an operator at a home station, just like a "transmitter," referred to above.

Combining the neutral relay and the polar relay, two operators, manipulating two telegraph keys,
can at the same time send two messages over a single line in the SAME direction with the SAME
current. One operator varies the strength of the current while the other varies its polarity or
direction of flow. This principle was covered in Edison's Patent No. 162,633, and is known as the
"diplex" system. However, in this patent, Edison showed that this principle could be adapted to duplex
telegraphy. In fact, it was found that by winding the polar relay differently and arranging the
circuits and collateral appliances appropriately, the polar duplex system was more efficient
than the neutral system. It is still extensively used.

So far we have referred to two systems: one the neutral or differential duplex, the other the combination
of the neutral and polar relays, which makes a diplex system. By one of these two systems, a single
wire can be used to send two messages in opposite directions. By using the other, two messages
can be sent over the wire in the same direction or in opposite directions. Edison followed up his
work on the diplex and combined the two systems into the quadruplex,
by which FOUR messages can be sent and received simultaneously over
a single wire, two in each direction, thus employing eight operators:
for at each end - two sending and two receiving. Well, your egregious spending
on reconstructing the church didn't cost me a darn thing, so what
right do I have to complain?

I hope you're happy with the results! Isn't that what really matters, here? You and your precious
Results! Oh, well . . . fools and their money . . . blah, blah. You wouldn't listen to some old
tired saying coming from some old ignorant fusspot who was here to appreciate the church in
its original condition. Things were JUST FINE before you came in and ruined things with your
completely unnecessary work! But, oh, no, I can't be rude. I must not be rude. Can't be rude.
Oh, no! You got the results you wanted and that's all that matters because my mind is MADE
UP and my opinion is going to stay the same as it always was!
 "I shall possess a nunber
caught onto the Roby," he exclaimed, "that you may tame otherwise, and that I too may ride onto an
elephant ahead of I die!"
Another of those fearful displays of barbarian plunder and havoc took site at the end of September.
Twenty thousand fighters, headed via the king, made an inroad onto the Galla. Those unfortunate
civilians were so little rehearsed, that they seem towards possess been murdered without resistance.
Between four and five thousand were butchered, and forty-three thousand brain of cattle were
driven off. This was an instance where people of different backgrounds found common cause. The nobles,
who originally opposed the idea, backed the idea in the hope of improving their status, the poor were
in favor in hope that it would improve economic conditions, mercenies sold their services and
patriots endorsed for for noble and ethical reasons. In
regards of smoothness and safety this arrangements works quite well; however the compilation
and first cost make its adoption problematic. Nevertheless, there were approximately 60 active
or under construction electric wind engines in May 1906
 Was it disaster or simply a benign circumstance?
Whatever the case was, it occured in a flash. Afterwards, their hands parted quickly. With furtive,
guilty, glances at each other the two men parted ways, diverging
to either ends of the crowded concourse as if they'd never met and
shared that brief flash of 'something'.

In that brief moment in time, it was possible that all was lost and the secret betrayed.

Cleotos turned to Enone and said, "I think I recognized that gentleman." He was curious about
her response, as he had noticed that she had also scrutinized the man carefully and with some
signs of recognition.

"Who do you think he is," Enone asked.

"I believe that he is the man named Clemens. Clemens was the leader of a Christian group in Corinth
when I met him there near two years ago. He is in fact the one who provided me with the good words
I have inscribed upon my paper at this very moment. I do not know why he is risking his safety to
be here in such a public place."

"I'd like that paper for myself, if you please, Cleotos."

Cleotos was instantly afraid. Afraid that she might wield her authority over him to confiscate
that small scrap of paper that held the words he had found to be so dear. Their promise of a better
life for the future had often brought him comfort and joy in the past. Had her previous companionship
been naught but a facade?

"Don't be afraid, dear Cleotos," she said
in response to his visible tension. "I just want to have the comfort
of holding onto the same words that brought you so much joy when you
have gone on and left me behind." Some had a feeling of it for
quite a while, which in result eased all difficulties, and ended up causing a calm aura to permeate
the small house, and even to this moment there were preparations in action.
 There are a variety of calls Hydrophane Opal, who is white and
opaque to dive into the water it looks like the old.  Why is gender so appreciated sapphire?

Because, after diamond, which is the hardest substance in nature. It also forms the most valuable
jewels, as the oriental ruby and topaz. The blue variety, or sapphire is harder than ruby. It
is infusible before the blowpipe. Becomes electric by friction, and retains its power for several
hours, but not converted into electricity by heating. It occurs in alluvial soils in the vicinity
of the rocks belonging to the formation floetz-trap secondary, and embedded in gneiss. Located
in Treblitz Rodsedlitz and Bohemia, and Hohenstein in Saxony; Expailly in France and especially
beautiful in the mountains Capelau, twelve days after the Sirius, a city of Pegu. Next is
the most valuable diamond jewels. The pale blue and white varieties, from exposure to heat become
white as snow, and when cut, have such high brightness, which are used in place of the diamond.

The most popular varieties are red and carmine red, which are the oriental ruby jewelry, the
following is the sapphire, and the latter is made of sapphire or oriental topaz. The starfish,
or rock stars, is a very nice strain, in which the color is usually
a reddish purple color with opalescent glow.

A ten-carat sapphire weight is considered a value of fifty guineas .-- Jameson.
Blue topaz, sapphire and Brazil, is of recent introduction. White topaz crystal far exceeds in
brightness, and in Brazil is called nova mine [4].
[4] The pink topaz is made from yellow, which, of intense color, is placed in the bowl of a pipe,
snuff, or the small pot, covered with ash or sand: on the implementation of a low degree of
heat, changes color from yellow to a beautiful rose.
Containing hydrofluoric acid, which can be the means of this change .-- Mawe.
Why
Ruby is a color so bright?
Due to a sixth of chromic acid is, while other gems, such as garnet, are colored by iron oxide.
Most estimates, and at the same time, the rarest color, oriental ruby, is the pure carmine,
or red blood of considerable strength, forming, when well-polished glow of the finest ink and
unsurpassed .
It is, however, more or less pale, and mixed with the blue in different proportions, so it produces
red rose red and white, crimson, peach blossom, lilac and blue - the variety of the latter name
oriental amethyst.
A perfect ruby in color and transparency, it is much less common than a good diamond, and when
the weight of three or four carats, is even more valuable the gem. The king of Pegu, and the
kings of Siam and Ava, monopolize the rarest gemstones, the best in the world is in the possession
of the first of these kings, their purity has turned into a proverb, and its value compared
to gold is invaluable.
The Subah of the Deccan, too, is in possession of a prodigiously well-being, a full inch in
diameter. The princes of Europe can not boast of a first-rate magnitude. Mr. Mawe, whose exciting
work restricted data, oriental sapphire considered to rank next in value to the ruby.
The best among these ruby jewels in their seniority of intrinsic value, which is the one used
in Crespo and Agincourt, by the Black Prince and V. Henry: this comes on the back cross, and
sapphire in the front, crown imperial state occasions.
Why garnets are often a reddish brown dye?
Due to excess iron in oxide, a small percentage is enough to completely
color without damaging your game and splendor.  
In fact, the perfection
of all gems depends less on the quality of its early components, which
in combination solution and intimate. Alkaline lands, such as lime,
magnesia, and better still, pot ash, seem to act as solvents, alumina,
completely dissolved, acquired, as we have shown from Klaproth, a
crystallization, of which, by itself alone is not likely. 

"No, it was some time I went north, and returned not, - though we expect it of the night. Compose
yourself up, and we ask for anything in the world, but to see your grandmother, show me I will
I am thy servant, humble leadership."
Say so, Giulietta Curtsied maliciously and laughed, showing her white teeth and shiny, which
seemed like a bright pearl.
Agnes Sat down on one of the velvet sofas and bowed her head on her hand.
"Come, now, let me bring you some dinner," said Giulietta. "What say you to a nice roast chicken
on a bottle of wine?"
"How can you talk about such matters at the time of the Holy Lent?" Said Agnes.
"Oh, is not afraid of it! Father Stefano groups such as these things the right one for us in the blink
of an eye, and especially to do it for you."
"Oh, but, Giulietta, I do not want anything, and I can not eat, if I had to try."
"Ta, ta, ta!" He said Giulietta, out. "Wait until you smell it .... will be back shortly."
And left the room, and lock the door behind them.
In a few moments, is back with a box of silver-rich, which has been dealing with this dish a
refreshing smell of steam, along with a roll of white bread, a small glass bottle containing the
wine was little choice.
Begged by much persuasion, was induced Agnes to partake of the bread, which is enough to revive
to some extent after the toils of the day, and then, she reassured a bit because of the Giulietta
familiar, began to take off their clothes, and her partner former help my curiosity to them. 
"Princess
of me a woman and there, now, you're tired," she said.

"I am repulsed unlace private. One of these days your gowns will be all silk, heavy with gold
and pearls."
"Giulietta Oh," said Agnes, "No! - Let me - I do not need help."
"Ta, Ta, ta! - You must learn to be on the wait," said Giulietta and urgency. "But, Holy Virgin!
What is the issue here? Oh, Agnes, what do you do to yourself?"
"It's a penance, Giulietta", said Agnes, her face clean.
"Well, I think it should have been! Father Francisco should be ashamed of himself, he is a real
butcher!"
"I do not to save myself, Giulietta. Cross of our Lord and heal the wound without the killer inside."

At its heart, was a kind of reverence Giulietta secret to this austerity, which on the full instructions
of her time and taught for a country he sees the saints in particular. People who live in more of
the senses in the world to think outside feels strongly about the appeal of this kind. Giulietta
made a sign of the cross, and looked dangerous for several minutes.
"Poor little dove!" She said in the past: "If the requirements must be expiated sins so, what
will become of me? Should be, which would put even stores merit with God; certainly sins do
not need all this. Agnes, will be a saint one day, such as with the same name in your monastery,
and I do not really think. "
"Oh, no, no, Giulietta! Do not talk so! God knows I did wrestle with forbidden thoughts all the
time, and I'm not a saint, but the President of sinners."
"This is what he says all the saints," said Giulietta. "But you, O Princess, when it comes, and
said he was not allowed, it is staid, nor his wife suffered a little bit" -
"Giulietta, do not talk so, - I can not hear it, - should not be his
wife, - and I vowed to be the husband of the Lord."

"However you like Prince to us and handsome," said Giulietta ";
There is a great sin you break your heart a little.

Well, now, is all, sour dry Francesco father old. I can not commit to it, -, made by a fuss about
such sin dismal; old father Girolamo was worth more than a dozen of it, and if you see only
our good father, Stefano, and now, he put your mind at ease your on the promise in the blink
of an eye, and must be obtained on the needs it was called, we have a leader I was born to lead,
and when stooping princes us peasants and girls that we do not have to say No, that's as good as being St. Michael
himself he must think of you only in the way of holy matrimony. will justify me, and there
are many of the Lord in Rome, Cardinal is not so good, With regard
to the princes, and he is one of A, Fares most holy and religious,
or that he would do as others do when they have power. " 
Agnes
started, confused and moved away, as if seeking asylum, and put her
down in bed, and reluctantly looking for in the beauty of unwonted,
- and then, hiding her face in the pillow, repeating the prayer. Treatment - When a bruise case comes to us, we must bathe it with hot water two to three
times a day. In the cases, which are not very old, this treatment is sufficient and no other
action is required. In case the bruise is swollen and hard or thick and it is not new one, then
tincture of iodin must be applied each day on the affected part. In case of the snake bite, a straight
cut should be made in the direction of the larger axis of the face of the swelling and a small
piece of cotton should be inserted in the would till the bleeding
is stopped. After that make a lotion of half a dram of Permanganate
of potassium and 1 pint of distilled water. Apply this lotion on the
wound a number of times each day. The
makers here at Lyons should be given a lot, yet I will hardly give them a sentence or two; not
one thing I saw in Paris or London can hold a candle to the brilliance of these velvets, or with the
skill and talent needed to create such effects, while one of the sides, the wrong side, is lustrous
and not stuck through. The tapestry-like hangings for the bed-chamber of Russia's Empress
are beautifully done; the palette bright and the pattern regal: A screen for the Grand Signor
is well executed here; he would most certainly have been happy with radiance in the picking
of his furniture, but Mr. Pernon has added a touch to it and thought to place an urn or vase
of a deep red velvet away from the foreground of brilliant gold tissue with admirable foresight.

It is noted that the more regal people get the less they see value in magnificence; distinction
being the very good thing which all humans value with more than adequate ability seek. Need
must first be given we know, convenience then makes to be agreeable; but as soon as people
can find ways after that time to make themselves a leader in taste, they can learn to dislike those
poor divisions and distinctions which wealth alone can give.
Speaking of taste leads one to talk of gardening; and having moved yesterday between two villas
owned by some of the most affluent merchants in Lyons, I was given the opportunity to see the throwing
away of grounds meant for fun and pleasure; where a connection of old elm trees created shade
that prevented the radiant sun from inhibiting our view, and made the grass so nice to walk
upon that my soul wished for the grace of a lawn and bushes - though I do indeed think laying
out a Lancashire man's seat in northern England crazy, where the warmth of the sun should be welcomed
and where the lake creates sparkling beams due to the sun's beams, instead of the gurgling of
a fountain which can refresh one with the very sound and murmur.

It is here where the Rhone river can be taken all the way up to the house, although I see it is
reasonable enough to content one's self with a Bird Cage Walk, when we are certain at its termination
to find us surrounded by a horizon so large that our eyes will be fully occupied and so wonderfully
colored that it will provide little respite. Someone once suggested to me that our island is an
emerald among the gems of Europe I have remembered it ever since; for surely France would
be determined, through the same scale, as the ruby; this classification coming from the relative
lack of grass, vegetation saving for tall forest trees, cut down vineyards supported by white
posts, the size of which support carnations in our flower gardens; and these placed near each
other by the many hundreds on a slope seems to confused rather than please the passerby, who must
wait until he or she remembers the greater quality of their own produce,
before he or she takes them over a Herefordshire orchard or a Kentish
hop-ground. There are so many eye-catching and obsessive ornaments showcased like stored together in
an unplanned manner although decorated with the festoons, adornments and the rich embroidery.
 In response to
the Query of Mr. Ellacombe, information regarding the MSS of Randle Holme of Chester, 1670
is scarce. The Query compromised the validity of accounts held by Mr. William Latham, of Eltham,
who then later relocated to Quenby Hall in Leicestershire. He was the brother of Dr. Latham
of Romsey a well known naturalist. However, a number of people are still under the assumption
that Dr. Latham, not Mr. Latham was on the account in Ormerod's Hist. Chesh., vol. ii, under
"Tranmere." Caleb held the serving dish close to his chest, his right
hand poised but not quite ready to lift the lid. "Pardon me, sir, but Lord Bucklaw is waiting,"
he replied to the head of the house.
 The
suggestions were not complete for illustrations in the later books, and did not show, in all
cases, with adequatae sureness to permit them to be carried out, the changes from the customary
plans and strategies purposed by the translator. It has, however, been chosed to include into
this piece of work only illustrations that have been approved by Professor Morgan. The only
exception to this rule is the rough model reprint of the Ram of Hegetor,created by me based
on measurings given by Vitruvius ans Athenaeus. At
last, he laid Mrs. Dumps, a personal matter, though it was his line of work to bury people
professionally. As I mentioned, she was a descendant of the Coffin lineage and was now returned
to her ancestors. After analysing the water in the laboratory to know the required amount
of lime and carbonate of soda needed for the total precipitation the heated water in the reservoir
is mixed with lime and stirred well. we have to make the alkaline test to know enough amount of
lime is added or not. Alkaline test is dipping red litmus paper for
1/4 minute in the mixture. if enough lime is added the red litmus
will turn blue. After this a solution of carbonate of soda is added
and stirred well. After the precipitate has settled in the bottom
the pure water is drawn to the pure water reservoir. 

At the same time, the sanctuary was criticized and paved with black
and white marble, the body of the church newly paved and galleries,
a pulpit with a sounding board, installation, and the whole church
"cleaned, bleached and embellished everywhere in charge of the parish.

"That the work was approved in general can be inferred from the observation of Stow" Continue
":" This is now a very beautiful church from the late repair, while another example of public
opinion talking about this and some further improvements of the same class said: "Although
the Church has often been noticed, however, the beauty of it is justly admired this repair."
In May 1821, the restoration of the choir was proposed and entertained for the first time, a
restoration of the dilapidated state of the clerestory clerestory and proved to be necessary.
The proposal was not allowed to pass without opposition, by a motion was presented for the complete
destruction of the entire building, except the tower, which was a completely new church was to be
adapted. Fortunately, the latter device was negative by a large majority of the parishioners, and
the restoration work was committed to the then famous Gothic architect Mr. George Gwilt. He
made his work more carefully and conscientiously adhering as far as possible to the original,
although hampered throughout its progress through conflicting instructions from the management
fee, which, like most organizations of this type, it tends to fluctuate between economic reasons and
a sense of what was due to the old structure. The Gothic Revival was then in its infancy, and
Mr. Gwilt, or his committee should be held responsible for the removal of the old quarter, with
its Tudor five light window, built by Bishop Fox, instead that a new three-light window was
inserted. During this restoration the Church of Santa Maria Magdalena was demolished in 1822,
along with some old houses, which are less regrettable that have encroached too closely on the
walls of the choir.
In 1825 the restoration of the ship began to be seriously considered, its state of deterioration
that has become more visible in contrast to the chancel restored.
This requires JavaScript HIT! Please enable JavaScript before continuing, or release the HIT.

Beppo.
* * * * *
THE PROOF OF WOMEN.
(The Mirror).

True Love has unreservedly - Lansdowne.
It is not without accomplishment in the mind of a most charming woman, nor one that more ANADE
dignity and grace of his person, of constancy. Anyone sea that parte of the beauty that can
be possessed of, if she can dora The nuance of Hebe in the cheeks, which competes in the pink
damask, and fragrant as the breath - And the funny gait and United Nations elegant Ariel - still,
unless it is equipped with one of this characteristic of a virtuous mind and Naive, todos fade
it her personal charms, negligence, like the rotting fruit in the fall. Full List of Securities
women in their child's gender Essential para happy man, Tanta Belleza But hay and the greatness of Feelings
is represented in the record year, Que has been justly prized by the dramatic poets As The Chief
of Excellence of her heroines. Nerves of the arm is the warrior in his absence from the beloved
object of his attachment Dedicated, When he reflects the confidence in Your Relationship Your
That was not misplaced, sin embargo But in the midst of dangers of his profession, sighing
for his abode of domestic bliss, where the breath of calumny was never an ENTER, and donde
Foxy The seductive and lascivious, If He dared to put the cake, retreated in horror with confusion
and shame, Satan Como, When he saw First Time For primitive innocence and harmony between Adam
and Eve in the Garden of Eden. Flavor is a United Nations of The fatigues of the peasants,
and it expands your heart with joy and gratitude to His Return At night your house a mantle
of ivy, and finds a woman sharing his assiduously Tasks Home to his
family specialist. And calms the mind of the mad DURING lucid intervals
of aberration of intellect, and are more likely than a return Nada
para Reason. In fact there is all that calamity inherent in man, but
that the constancy WHEN THEY
WAS IN DANGER THE MAN WHO GLADLY HAVE SHOWN THE SHIP BY SHAPING THE CARGO.BUT THE CAPTAIN
OF THE SHIP SAW THE HATCH WAS WITH THE SWORD AND A COUPLE OF BRONZE TIPPED SPEARS IN HIS HAND.HE WANTS
TO SINK OR TO SWIM ALONG WITH THE SHIP;AND HE GONE DOWN WITH TREASURE AND FAITH,OR REACH SIDON,THAT
CITY WAS FILLED WITH FLOWERS,AND BUILD A WHITE HOUSE AMONG PALMS WITH THE HELP OF WATER PF BOSTREN,AND
NEVER TRY THE SEA AGAIN.
SO HE SWORE AND HE DIDNT ALLOW THEM TO SHAPE THE WANDERER AS THEY DESIDE ONCE,BECAUSE THE PROJECT
HE HAD ATTEMPTED HAD FAILED.HE HAD TO BRING GOOD PRICE IN TANIS,"SAID THE CAPTAIN OF THE SHIP.AND ATLAST
THE STORM CAME AND WERE SO GLAD TO MEN WHO ESCAPED FROM DEATH SO THEY SACRIFICED AND POUR
A WINE INFRONT OF THE DWARF GODG AND BURN INCENSE My chum looked at the in he had
rewarded him, and heed that it was brilliantly torrid, ordered it tangent by itself. The deficient
partner husky to sugar him workaday visits for five months, and my prior threw the sway he conventional
from him into a dresser by itself. At the shot of this tour, he emotion to take out the leadership to
swallow sheep; so he unsealed the chest, but set about in it naught but sweltering daily, pained
action. When he jest this, he hit his frontage and cried out, plow the race came riot him and he
told them his occurrence, at which they wondered. Then he rosy, as of his advantage, and slaughtering
a tremble, hung it up within the store; after which he shot crucify some of the significance
and hung it up front, epigram the while, "Would Saint that polluted infirm lad would come!" And definitely
before long up came the doddering lad, with his money in his succor; whereupon my buddy puce and
engrossed rule of him, glaring out, "Come to my usefulness, O Muslims, and reveal what befell me
with this knave!" When the geriatric bloke heard this, he said to him, "An you unexcited me not,
I expectation bulletin you before the kinsmen!" "In what fail you specification me?" asked my comrade,
and the other replied, "In that you select individual's flesh for
mutton."

"You list, O cursed isolated!" cried my schoolmate: and the decrepit
person said, "He is the accursed singular who has a lad ornamentation
up in his store."

"If it be as you safest," rejoined my kissing cousin, "I feed you abdicate to take my character
and my day." Then said the patriarchal fellow, "Ho, folk of the volume! An ye would make out
the factualism of my shout, number this individual's class." So they hurried into the shop, when
they hoodwinking the rap turn a stiff companion ornamentation up and detained on my cousin,
glaring out, "O atheist! O villain!" And his chief links floor to fight him and saw, "Dost you
maintain us man's flesh to eat?"
 Please remember that I promise only possible arguments for the proofe of this theory,
and therefore you must not consider that every consequence should be of an perfect dependance, or that
the verity of each theory should be calculated by its necessity.
 Freedmen can count on Mrs. Griffin to defend whats
best for them, and when it is best for the freedmen. Her dedication and persistence is such
that she will continue supplying her aide as long as she is able bodied.
MRS. M. M. HALLOWELL. Though the inconsistencies and deviations found in the result of
these expirements do not prove any theory yet, and although most of the significant results can be
accounted to the surrounding air, it is shown that metals seem to possess properties that are
unique to them which primarily produce electricity that is either positive or negative and which
differ in degree.

Cavallo then continues to show the experiments on contact electrification presented at the beginning
of the article.
Cavallo's study was started in 1795. Ayear after, electrical current was discovered by Volta.
In a letter to Gren' Neues Journal der Physik, Volta discloses:
"The collission of different metallic elements, including pyrites, charcoal and other minerals
which are considered dry conductors or second class conductors,causes
eimbalance among the electric fluids.

It is not important as to how or in what manner but what is relevant is that e have come up
into one great principle."

In this state of his dicovery, Volta intended to account the origin of the current to the coming
together of the metals and his so called "second class conductors" eentough, in the latter part
of the article he claims that it is not possible to show whether the action which sets the current
moving can be accounted to the meeting of the metals themselves or between them and the so called
second class conductors since either of the hypothesis would lead to the same results.
Further, as presented by the current writer in the previus paper, Volat considered the mettalic
attraction as the cause for the electrical current.Volta, in a letter sent to Gren in 1797, published
as a postcript to his letter in August 1796, claims:
"Recent discoveries reveals that what causes motion of the electric fluids is not primarily
the cintact between the moist conductors with the metals but the contact between two metallic
substances."

Volta showed his change of views by repeating Bennett's experiment of 1789.
Volta manifested that the current wasnot only produced simply by the contact between the two metals
but by the action made by these metals toward each other. No further experiment relevant to the changes
taking place during current generation was attempted by Volta. H e didd'nt give consideration
on the chemical action on his metals and dissociation in his electrolytes, as he never made
mention of them. 
 
 
In 1792, Physicist Fabroni of Florence
proposed an observation made by Galvani offering an explanation to
the phenomena. Fabroni maintains that the unique taste caused by bringing
two metals on the tongue is caused by a chemical reaction and not
by an electrical action. He further offered discussions on the chemical
behavior of metals as single substance and as one with the others.
According to him: (2) 
 
 (2)Following are translations of the
Fabroni's quotations from German of Ostwald's "Elektrochemie" pp.103,
as translated by the current writer. She was very intelligent and quite the talker; and yet she suprised me by
being uniquely sanctimonious. She glanced critically around my studio on her entrance.  
"You
ain't got no tex' 'ung up," she commented, disparagingly. "We 'as two tex' in our kitching.
 Rhyme and the connection is made, they
have nothing in them, not with the nature of dramatic dialogue, and an objection to the amendment
of the action in this drama based on a simple idea based frightening regularity. Not suitable
for verse comedy was invented in Italy. Sciolto verse, is well known, does not respond, is
not well known. The verse of twelve syllables, with a degree sdrucciolo
selected by Ariosto, is much better, old and with trimethoprim, but
still a bit monotonous. 

30: Articles of peace and friendship have been established between Brigadier William Marcus Coghlan,
who is a Political Resident at Aden on behalf of Honourable East India Company, and the Habr
Owel tribe of Somali.
 Whenever our creative power has come to the forefront the inspiration for that
has come from within the nation and it has exhibited an unquestionable religious base, which, incidentally,
I always refer to as the strong underlying bond among us. The political arena has been the scene
of action in one form or another as the Italians carried the idea that their being shall strike
fruition with struggle and action in this sphere. Whatever be the divisions elsewhere every
stock of people remain united in our land. Sabines or Etruscans, whoever it be, were guided by
their religiosity to build their civil society, or their day to day living style. The Pythagoreans
on the other hand established their own system of beliefs, religious associations, and political institutions
the same time. Rome had the strength of the strong religious base of its people, and so derived
its vigor, zeal for action on the accumulated, acquired feelings of oneness due to which the
individuality got diffused for the sake of the common mission. The democratic institutions of
the nation being basically religious, laws and rules of the government were derived off that fundamental
belief of the philosophers, thinkers of the times.  Mankind listened to more or less the command
from Rome, namely “Urbs Orbi”. Twice Europe saw unity in a moral sense thanks to the voice
of Rome. It was my strong belief that the base foundations of the third life of Europe has to
come out of the Roman zeal, vitality, emotions and passion within me I felt the acceptance and
praising of the great Roman voice by the entire humanity with loving reverence and expressing
strongly through the oneness of faith common to everybody. The unity seen now was not of the
old type wherein for a few centuries the people were emancipated due to the conducive, sacred
atmosphere of the times; liberty and equality to be had in heaven. This new unity was the
one resulting in liberty and equality of the entire humanity, due to the formula of Associations in
the front, visible and throbbing, in the here and now on this earth in accordance with God’s
will; A podium of perfection, man is blessed with to enable a life of lofty and grandeur existence.
And Rome came out, in the name of God and democratic Italy, with a declarations of Principles,
as against a bleak declaration of rights- the basic idea being one
of attaining human progress- a common mission and goal for all the
nations and the revelation of a new religion. The proof that a wire may be stretched to
long that the current will no longer have enough strength to bring forward at the station to which
the despatch is made known. But the strength of the current sent by a voltaic battery with a wire
of certain length will be added in the same amount as the area of section of the wire is augmented.
 It was similar how
they went through it one more time. Harry talked about and noticed things that seemed superficial,
but it was apparent that it was anything but. He was thinking about Violet.
"'The Nereïd!' You're certain that the Nereïd is safe to sail?" he repeatedly questioned all who
would listen.
 Dii talem terris avertite pestem means, as the proverb is, from deviation,
jealousy and rage, superior Lord convey us.  Religious melancholy is the object of God; what his
magnificence is and how it allures.

The people affected.

That there is such a distinct species of love downheartedness, no man has ever doubted, but
whether this subdivision of religious misery is warrantable, it may be changed.
 Mirefleur is the name of a tower in themiddle of the old square.
It supposedly mentioned in the romance "Amadis de Gaul". Adjoining it is a plain, where knights
and other nobles meet. At holidays and other set times, it was used
to exercise on horseback. As Mr. Davis did not have public opinion on
his side, Mr. Minns assumed that Byrnes' snide comment was to deride Mr. Davis.
Although the first part of the comment escaped him, it ended with "killing the negroes". Mr.
Davis, sensing the sarcasm, answered "If that is the case, you should watch your back." A fitting
retort to Mr.Byrnes' assumption.

Should this be held against Mr. Davis? No, not just because he dared do what the others wouldn't.
But then again, there is that gesture he made as he was leaving. That's how his adventurous life began and, as he went on, he described
the East in glowing terms and made amazing paintings of it.
Next we move on to the female protagaonist in Port St. Louis: 
A
lovely woman from Arabia. She was
an exceptional woman. I liked the way she dressed up and how neatly she wore her clothes on
her well cleansed body. I enjoy her company, specially her superb cooking skills as ells as
her willful intention of having sex with me everytime I call her. Chapter 7.
Articles of commerce of the island include farming of pepper. Also, camphor, benzoin, cassia,
etc.
Chapter 8.
Import trade includes precious metals like gold, and others like tin. Beeswax, ivory, and the
nests of birds, among others, are import trade.
Chapter 9.
Creative works and fabrication. The creative invention of medicince.
Scientific studies. Mathematics. Geographical study. Study of the
sky and the solar system. Musical creation, etc. 
Chapter 10. 
The
people speak Malayan using Arabic character. The indigenous peoples
of of the interior use a particular characters. The languages and
alphabets are good specimens. She said:
"Alas." "The poor lady might as well love a dream. Disguise I see is wicked,for it has caused
Olivia to breathe as fruitless sighs for me, as I do for Orsino."
Viola returned to the palace and reported to the Duke Orsino that the negotiation has failed
because Olivia does not want to have anything to do with him. The Duke was disappointed, because
he was sure that Yiola was going to convince Olivia of his love; so he asked her to try again
to convince her. The Duke meanwhile, played a song and wrote to Olivia to tell her how the
song reminded him of his love for her.
Viola understood the words of the old song, which simplified the pain of love. She is the proof
that the meaning of the song is true, and her sad look was noted
by the Duke who asked her:" My life upon it, Cesario, though you are
so young, your eye has looked upon some face that it loves; has it
not, boy?"

Viola answered the Duke: "A little, with your leave." Then the Duke asked again: "And what kind
of woman, and of what age is she? Viola replied: "Of your age and your complexion my lord." The
Duke smiled at Viola's reply, because he was amazed to see a young man with a fair complexion,
in love with an older darked skin woman; but secretly Viola was referring to the Duke.
In the second visit to Olivia,s home Viola vas received with great respect. She told Olivia that
she had returned once more on the Duke behalf to plead with her to accept his love; but Olivia
said to her: "I desired you never to speak of him again; but if you would undertake another
suit, I had rather hear you solicit, than music from the spheres." Then Olivia broke down and openly
confessed her love for Viola. The displeasure in Viola face, lead her to say: "O what a deaf of scorn
looks beautiful in the contempt and anger of his lip! Cesario, by the roses of spring, by maidhood,
honour, and by truth, I love you so, that, in spite of your pride, I have neither wit nor reason
to conceal my passion." This love's pledge was null, because Viola ran away from Olivia, and
threatened never to return to her house again, to plead the Duke's love for her. All theses
solicitations from Olivia, placed Viola in a position to keep her resolution, Never to love
a woman again. He, she and they have bought it simultaneously. Hurrah!  A. P. H.  * * * * *  The
Premier Metaphors.  Some time ago, when the premier was observing the sunrise upon the mountains,
suddenly he started to pitch his thermometer into the lava. He did so just to examine that
the stream is cooling or not, is it indicating any comfort or discomfort, should we be with
hope or without hope, any who may be buried beneath it or not etc,.
But unfortunately by mistake, as per our understanding, we can confirm
that he has failed to tape or record his speech at the Guildhall that
the chamois is once more browsing happily among the blooming edelweiss.

But Mr. Lloyd George when he started to continued his lofty metaphors he can understand well
about its easy performance. Especially he will understand well when they dealing with the glacier,
they are completely free from any kind of even small difficulties. What can he say that the
glacier is doing? This is the question and it has something interesting answer. Usually a glacier
will not be having any rhetorical or metaphorical value if it is unable to move or if it is
staying simply where it is. Actually it is very easy to anybody to take the ice-axe of resolution
in his hand or the alpenstock of enterprise and pull over one's boots the socks of Coalition.
But the glacier will be remaining as the same and practically it will not be having any kind
of change by these preparations. But as a matter of fact, it has a little bit of benefit also.
That is its uneven surface will be made even by the steam-roller of progress. Also its crevasses
will be filled in by the cement of human kindness. The reason is the opposition press soon will
be getting scientists, engineers and statisticians. They will try to establish the meaninglessness
of such a claim. But if you want to declare that the glacier is getting warmer, it will be ended
with great panic situation among people and especially among the homesteads in the valley. Perhaps
if Mr. Lloyd George is not very responsible or careful, then he will have to make a severe
brutal slip in negotiating the glacier.  Now the "awful avalanche" has not yet been dealt with.
By making use of a few helpful words on the direction, there are some possibilities to take
and the safest rock to make for when it begins to move might be welcomed by the PREMIER'S followers.
He may argue that this ideal idea is entirely based on foolishness and it is very difficult one to meet
trouble in a half-way. But on the other hand, if he is not willing to argue on this subject with open
mindedness, then the opportunity will not be possible. So it is better to him just to avoid the
glacier. Suppose, if he selects the same, he cannot escape from the avalanche as we said already.
* * * * *  "What’s yours?" "If you are ready to think over it, then I will have a collar”
Please le me have two collars. They are seventeen’s" and "cheerio!"  Now, it is more advisable
to have one especially when you are with me. What about an evening shirt?" No, no it is too early.
I want the same again. Then? Well, perhaps it will be a soft one this time."  I need once again
the same one. That is so soft one. Could you give this one?  OK bye. See you again.  * * * *
*  * * * * *  The sayings of Barbara.  If a man tries to represent or to make familiar any kind of
familiar misleading notion or erroneous belief notion and if he tries to confuse time-honored
legends, then automatically he will be covered with enemies.

Now I have more privilege to expose the latest star or legend and I am sure that he is not the product
or follower of any superstitious beliefs. But he has a symptomatic manufactured growth of
comparatively recent origin. It is highly concerned with Barbara and her sayings. Actually
Barbara is not the impersonal or unfriendly lady and she is the lady to figure in the old logic
book- doggerel. .She is always an extremely lively woman and she is highly illogical person
for the past more than five years. I have had the honor to be father. It is also greatly concerned
with Barbara's Aunt Julia and even with her mother in a lesser degree. From the time, that
for the past three years, as a first time when Barbara tried to show her expressive speech, my
daughter was telling about them. When I have been hearing from my daughter, I have been bombarded
with reports of the wonderful things.
 One is a musing, subjective method of delineation.It
contains various shades and windings seem to reveal themselves with a certain spontaneity .We
follow many recesses and depths in the heart of another like poetic method, such as only music
stirs into consciousness in ourselves.But in styled diplomatis method,it classifies characters
objectively, accordintg to the kinds of outer conduct in which they manifest themselves, and according
to the best ways of approaching and dealing with them. The second method describes the spirit
in which Vauvenargues observed men. He is French and belongs to the eighteenth century
 Don't purposely forget to do what I
tell you, because this comes through you." Hearing this, Sherkan puffed his chest out as he
filled with pride and joy.
He said back, "By God, nobody will come to you as long as I can help it! But can you stand leaving
your family?" 
She replied that she could. 
So Sherkan made her
the promise, and they made a pact. 
Afterwards she said,"I feel
much better. But there is one more favor I have to ask you." Footnotes: [Footnote 1: February
8th 1862, the equator was crossed.]

[Footnote 2: The Wahuma are a subject of Chapter IX.]

[Footnote 3: In an early Number of the "Proceedings of the Zoological
Society of London" can be found the list of my fauna collection.]

[Footnote
4: "You have alluded, sir, to the success of the last expedition.
Justice compels me to state the circumstances under which it attained
that success" were the words spoken by Captain Burton, on receiving
his gold medal at the hands of Sir Roderick I. Murchison. This HIT requires JavaScript! Please activate JavaScript
before continuing, or release the HIT.
Once there was a kingdom, in which there is a prince and he had brothers. He went out in search
of his brothers. The prince was not willing to return home to his father without his brothers
.He was in search of his brothers where he have seen a dwarf and they left the kingdom in search
of water and food. He was very happy, that he had secured water ,and he is moving home and passed
again where the dwarf stood. The dwarf have seen the sword and bread which was brought by him
and stated that he had made it well ,by using the sword he could destruct the total armies-but
the bread cost nothing.
The prince was asking the dwarf” Dear dwarf can you show me where my brothers are? They went
out in front of me in search of water of life and didn’t return. “They have been stucked
between mountains ,said the dwarf. They were so imperious and I enchanted them there.”
The prince begged the dwarf for there release, but gave warning to the younger brother about them as
they have evil in their hearts. After this story was completed the three brothers went away ,and
soon entered a state where there was war and the king thought he
should go, there was urgent necessity.

The youngest prince went there to the king and gave him bread, with which he fed and the total
people were satisfied his people and the sword was got by the prince and thereby he defeated all
the enemies and peace was all over there in the kingdom. After this they are traveling on a ship
to pass over the sea thereby they left home. During the journey the two elder brothers said that”
Our brother have found the water of life and we didn’t find that ,our father will give the
kingdom which belongs to us to him and our future will be destroyed”.They planned of killing
the king.One day they brought salt water instead of water when his father was fast asleep and accused
his brother of poisoning their father,but they had brought the right water ,and handed it to the king
.his father praised them though water of life was brought by the prince.The brothers are saying that
you have found the water of life but we got the reward, they said that they have theft the
water when he was asleep at the sea and in one year one of us are going to fetch the princess.
Whatever you say the king will not believe you and if you say about us you will loss your
life ,but if you are silent you are out of danger. the king was very angry on his youngest son ,who
did wrong things as he believed him .he was submitted to court and was sentenced that the
prince should be shot secretly. The huntsman was ordered to do the work. When Huntsman were alone
in the wood ,they are so sad that the prince questioned him that what ailed him. The Huntsman
gave the reply as “I cannot tell you but I should.”
 We would like it if everyone who is with us, not to praise
us prematurely, nor to theorize prematurely, but to work hand-in-hand
with us in our efforts to improve and further our experiments in thought-transference.
 I'd
just give for myself a pull and then shore in, taking up the line gradually as I walked."  "outstanding!
What would happen if you, as you put it, pull yourself in hand over hand, as if you were hiking
a line on globe?"  "I would speed up too much," Danley held.
 No--Yes, ahhh, forget it. I forget!.
I groaned as I hid my face in my hands due to my idiocracy. No, I said as she asked if I wwas still
unwell. But as she spoke about anything, everything, I felt more at ease.
 Arrange
the subject by concurrence or by leaving it to objective men to decide.
MISTAKE NO. 4--TOO SMALL TILE.
No error has come to light sooner than this. The following observations
will account for this, and also help in fixing it. Your
Saturday newspaper arrived here at 4:00 Saturday afternoon, May 13th, and, as indicated by
the evidence presented to the coroner, a number of individuals left Auburn to accomplish the
same task but each without the other's knowledge or collaboration.
Two of the persons were Charles P. Gillson and Bartholomew Graham, AKA "Black Bart". Gillson ran
a saloon at the intersection of Prickly Ash Street and the Old Spring Road; and Black Bart
was employed by Conrad and Company, custodians of the Norfolk Livery Stable. Gillson was son-in-law
to ex-Governor Roberts of Iowa, and is survived by a wife and two children, victims of his untimely
demise. As for Mr. Graham, nothing is known of a surviving family.
It has been suggested that he was involved in the late robbery of Wells and Fargo's express at
Grizzly Bend, and that he gambled constantly. One fact was well known to be true: he had a
commission as a lieutenant in the Confederate Army, and served under General Price and the renegade
Quantrell.

He had the benefit of a fine education in his youth, was from a good family, and displayed acceptable
manners, but he seemed to have acquired a drinking problem at an early age, eventually leading
to degradation and a ruinous life. But he was not incapable of generous, or, rather, self-serving
romantic deeds. It was during the burning of Putnam House here summer of last year that he saved two
women from the fires. In the process, he burned his left hand so severely that the tendons of
two fingers contracted permanently, and the associated scarring may
indeed make his apprehension easier. The lad, on being asked
for, came directly up to her, and suggested numerous blandishments, which verified that he
had presumed the 'toga virilis'. But Abaroo disclaimed his improvement, doing again the title
of another individual, who we knew was her favourite. The juvenile admirer was not, although,
effortlessly repulsed, but improved his match, on our come back in the after noon, with such
heat of solicitation, as to origin an apparent alteration in the sentiments of the lady. To intensify
the good wit which pervaded both parties, we started to play and romp with them. Feats of whole body
power were endeavoured, and their inferiority was glaring. One of our party hoisted with alleviate
two of them from the ground, in spite of their efforts to avert him, while in come back, no one
of them could proceed him. They called him 'murree mulla' (a large powerful man). Compared
with our English labourers, their muscular power would emerge very weak and inadequate.

Before we parted, Baneelon acquainted us that his countrymen had recently been plundered of fish-gigs,
spears, a sword, and numerous other items, by some of our persons, and conveyed a desire that they
should be refurbished, undertaking, that if they were, the governor's dirk should be made and
returned to us to-morrow, if we would rendezvous him here.

Accordingly on the next day we rowed to the location, bearing with us the thieved property.
We discovered here some natives, but not Baneelon. We inquired for him, and were notified that
he was gone down the harbour with Barangaroo to fish. Although let down at his break of pledge,
we went on seashore, and mingled without distrust amidst those we discovered, acquainting them
that we had conveyed with us the items of which they had been plundered. On hearing this account,
they conveyed large delight, and Imeerawanyee darting ahead, asserted the sword. It was granted
to him, and he had no earlier grabbed it, than he hastened to assure his mistress, that his
prowess in conflict, was not inferior to his ability in courtship. Singling out a yellow gum-tree
for the foe, he assaulted it with large fierceness, calling to us to gaze on, and accompanying his
onset with all the signs and vociferation which they use in battle. Having conquered his foe,
he prepared apart his battling face, and connected us with a countenance which conveyed in
it every assess of youth and good nature.

Whether Abaroo's coyness, and fondness of another, had displeased him, or it was be obliged to natural
fickleness, he paid her no more distant vigilance, but appeared more very satisfied with us.
He had no whiskers, but was highly gratified in being combed and having his hair clipped.

All the thieved house being conveyed on seashore, an vintage man came up, and asserted one of
the fish-gigs, singling it from the package, and taking only his own; and this honesty, inside
the around of their humanity, appeared to distinuish them all.

During this time, it was discerned, that one of the Indians, rather than of blending with remainder,
stood aloof, in a considering posture, considering what passed. When we suggested to set about
him, he shunned us not, and eagerly agitated hands with all who chose to manage so. He appeared
to be between 30 and 40 years vintage, was jolly, and had a thoughtful countenance, much assessed
by the smallpox. He was dressed in a string of morsels of dehydrated reed around his neck, which
I inquired him to exchange for a very dark stock. He grinned at the suggestion, but made no
offer of what I wanted; which our juvenile ally, Imeerawanyee, discerning, took air journey
to him, and taking off the necklace, exactly repaired it about my neck. I dreaded he would be
enraged, but he unexciting it with serenity, and endured a polite man present to tighten his
very dark supply upon him, with which he emerged to be pleased. To
boost his approval, some other trifle was granted to him.

Having
stayed here an hour we went in quest of Baneelon, agreeably to the
main headings which his companions sharp out. We discovered him and
Barangaroo shivering over a couple of lighted twigs, by which they
were getting dressed little fish, and their canoe hauled up on the
sandy seashore beside them. "Come on, Remane,
how come, for example?"
"If I were you, I'd try not to start out on the wrong foot."
Neither of them said anything else. A tense quiet descended. During this quiet, and kind of pathetically,
the black man tugged them upwards on the shore.

The four travelers were standing a little while on top of the warm,
bleached beach, attracted to one another, figuratively, before they
were metaphorically repulsed, by an unwitting groping at commonality.

Remane too touched his hat. Dr. Dare was asked by Dr. Frank if she could be helped by him
in any way. But Dr. Dare gratefully, with a stiff wave of her pale hand, said, "Farewell." 
This
may have been the first instant when her gender had been a bother to her during this mission.
She would have been perfectly happy apearing before the Relief Committee of Calhoun, with only
men as companions, men she didn't have any power over. She strode forward by herself, in a slate
dress and a eggshell straw hat, more than capable of carrying her own bags.
The quiet traveler fell behind with the black boat captain. They walked together, ploddingly approaching
the others.
A few minutes passed. He moved forward and joined the lady, nervously, starting to say:
"Can I beg your pardon--"
"Oh," Dr. Dare broke in genially, "it's you again."
"Could you please enlighten me as to the preferred manner of becoming a fever nurse here? I
want the preferred way, so that I may obtain real employment."
"Certainly, certainly," Dr. Dare agreed, bobbing her head. "I rather
thought you'd want to." 
"I traveled from the North to do this,
but I had intended to journey instead to Savannah." 
"So I'd gathered."
 The truth is that any man who is mad and
do not care about his own safety and hence he is a danger to public security, he might endanger
the society with all his evil power cannot control any threat of destruction over looking the
Commonwealth. For anyone who is accustomed
in England to the ''Saturday to Monday'' conventional or the ''shooting week'' in a rural house,is
filled with amazement and wonder when he receives an invitation from a colonial to live for
a month with him at his house in Karroo. In 1186 CE, St. Christian resigned from the position of bishop.

This text was obtained from the English  translation of the Irish manuscript that was found in
the margins and facing pages. The notes are pretty involved and will take more time and work
to transcribe than the actual English text itself.
 The letter was not answered and that meant that Captain Reynolds, taking this as
an even bigger insult, was moved to send another, even more strong letter that could only be interpreted
as a challenge.
 At the present time, it is only employed that we raise and ignite the Passions,it, then,
was applied to relax and allay all kinds of Perturbation. And, agree to this analysis, throughout
every one of Shakespears Plays, where Musick is either used, or it is Powers described, it is
chiefly said to be for these Ends.
Shakespears Twelfth Night begins with a reflection that admirabley marks its impressive properties.

This Similitude is great not only for the greatness of the image that it shows, but for the
exactness to things compared.
This is a way to teach peculiar to Poets that would describe the nature of anything, they do
it not by a direct Enumeration of attributes or qualities, but by bringing this into comparison,
and presenting those qualities that are of the kind with those in this compared.
For instance. The Poet is willing to direct in the properties of Musick, in which the same
strains have a greatness to improve pleasure or pain. According to that state of matter, the
person is then in, does it by showing the image of a sweet south wind swirling over a violent
bank, which goes away the odor of the violets, and at the same time communicates to its own
sweetness, by this insinuating, that affecting Musick, though it takes away the sweet tranquility
of mind, and at the same time, shares a pleasure the mind never felt
before.

This knowledge has the same objects being capable of raising contrary
affections, and is a proof of no ordinary progress in the study of
human nature.

General beauties of the two poems of Milton are titled 'L'Allegro and II Pensoroso, and are familiar
to all readers, because the descriptions are most poetical in the World. There is a peculiar
beauty in the tow pieces, that will enhance value of them to capable readers which has never
been observed. The images in the poems raises to excite Mirth and Melancholy is exactly the same
but shown in different attitudes.
If a writer acquainted with nature had given us two poems on these subjects, he would have sought
out the most contrary images to show these contrary passions. Particulary as Shakespear in Passage
I am now speaking of these different effects as the exciter of each affection: and we should mistake
him as showing that different heirs had different powers. He gives the picture of these self
same strains that Orpheus used to get Eurydice as proper both to excite Mirth and Melancholy.
 We believe those who
have stood for her, clearly have taken a dive into consumption as well as frailty, the equal
to everything which is pointless and evil, have falsely spoken against her wills and actions.
She is in fact, as the rest of us, an ancestor of her previous acts and enviornmental condition. Her knowledge
was as great as her distinguishing features. No moral affect was placed upon her from her
marriage. A strange and different path was made for her by her seperation, that had never been
traveled before with no punishment. However, we do not think, that even in the midst of the
worse of her life, that she for one moment lost sight of her goal.We are strongly aware of her
purpose for the progress for mankind, her woe for the errors of the
race, and her dedicated lack of trust for existing institutions. Indeed, it
has the fact that there is a general law relating to offense of obstructing judicial process,
demonstrating that the law assumes that facts of the property and escape to be true, and applies
only in cases where should they prove to be true.
If it is not so, what results? If someone other claims, no process, by putting his hand on his shoulder,
though the person could be as free as you or me, if he resists, or his friends aid him in acid
, the fault is made.

A person claimed as a fugitive slave, have been rescued or aided in his escape. You can not
deny that delivers color up a boy or girl was born at home, free parents, any man who knocks on
your door and claim the child, with or without a warrant, without incurring The penalty of law.
It is very strange construction can not be admitted. I implore the Commissioners to reconsider its
opinion intimated to this point, and to hold the Government to preliminary evidence, in the beginning,
that man is a slave rescued by the laws of Virginia, is the servant of people who claimed him,
and is a fugitive from the state of slavery.
What the evidence would have been any of the facts? There has been no evidence given to the
prisoners is a Virginia slave law! - There is no evidence offered that he is the servant of
Mr. Debree! There was no evidence offered that he was a fugitive from a state of slavery! Mr Riley's
return to the warrant, stating that he was arrested "the interior Named Shadrach," was admitted
as evidence. I solemnly protested against the return receipt as evidence in a criminal scheme
between other parties, but it has received, and for a while held to be conclusive. However,
in answer to my question, Mr. Riley replied that he did not know the people he arrested the person
named in the warrant. And how he can know it? This nullified the return, and the government has
no evidence. The District Attorney I saw this, and rising from his chair, in a threatening
tone, said Mr. Riley, "I warn you, sir, not to give testimony!" The testimony is true, and is
admitted in court. Why Mr Riley was given a warning? He was warned
for private reasons.

This is an official warning, by agents of the Executive to one his
servants.

Mr Lunt - I deny it was a private warning. It was public, and for the right reasons.
Mr Dana - This is for private, or secret reasons, not given, unclear, - some fear a political or
government, known only to the parties. No escape from it. The bar to see it. The audience saw it.
It is planted in a pen of iron, and lay the rock forever!
All evidence of identity having failed, the government has pushed in his last shift. Col. Thomas
was called in, and he testifies that Mr. Debree agent told him, Court room, when the prisoners
were brought, "That is my boy!" It is hearsay evidence on hearsay evidence. This great-great!
But this tiny thread of illegal testimony, hung all the evidence of the realities of identity,
slavery and escape. If it is enough to prove that the person rescued people in custody, and
to whom the Court is sitting in fact, no one denies it. But if it is necessary to show that
the person in custody is the person named in the warrant, or that he is a slave, and a fugitive
slave, there was no competent evidence of any of the facts, and no evidence at all but one
of them.
people are not rescued from the Court. The Court is adjourned.

The general has chosen to make the Court room, a slave prison. The offense would have been
the same in the eyes of the law, if he is rescued from the hands of the agents without a warrant,
on the street, or in a railroad car. 
I have not yet submitted
to the Court on the subject of law applies in this case. I will now
call your attention to the realities of reputation evidence. 
To
avoid the repetition and confusion, I call your attention to honor
the same points. Dec.
17.] reckoned on an authority which they no longer had. The fidelity of the normal soldiers
had been shaken by the letters of Monk, and the declaration of Lawson. Putting themselves under
the command of the officers who had been lately let go, they mustered[a] in Lincoln's Inn Fields,
marched before the house of Lenthall in Chancery Lame, and saluted him with three volleys of
musketry as the representative of the parliament and lord-general of the military. Desborough,
left by his regiment, ran in despair towards Lambert; and Fleetwood, who for some days hadn't done
anything but cry and pray, and complain that "the Lord had spit in his face," tamely endeavoured
to disarm by submission the hatred of his adversaries. He looked for the speaker, fell on his
knees before him, and surrendered his commission.[1]
Thus the Rump was again successful. The members, with Lenthall at their head, continued[b] possession
of the house amidst the loud acclamations of the soldiery. Their first duty was to establish
a committee for the government of the military, and to order the regiments in the north to separate
and march to their respective quarters. Of those among their colleagues who had supported the
old committee of safety, they excused some, and punished others by suspending them, or exclusion,
or putting them in prison: orders were sent to Lambert, and the most active of his associates, to leave
from the army to their homes, and then orders were given to the magistrates to take them into custody.
A council of state was appointed, and into the oath to be taken by the
[Footnote 1: Ludlow, 268, 276, 282, 287, 289, 290, 296, 298. Whitelock, 689, 690, 691. Clar.
Pap. 625, 629, 636, 641, 647.]

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1659. Dec. 24.] [Sidenote b: A.D. 1659. Dec. 26.]
members was introduced a fresh and very comprehensive abjuration of kingship and the family of
Stuart. All officers commissioned during the disruption by any other authority than that of Monk
were broken; the military was completely redone; and the time of the house was regularly occupied
by the continued introduction of officers to get their commissions in person from the hand of
the speaker.[1]
In the mean time, Monk, to subdue or disperse the army of Lambert, had raised up a new and formidable
enemy in his back. Lord Fairfax was become a convert to the cause of monarchy; to him the multiple
royalists in Yorkshire looked up as leader; and he, on the solemn assurance of Monk that he would
join him in about twelve days or die in the attempt, undertook to call together his friends,
and to surprise the city of York. On the first day of the new year,[a] each performed his
promise. The gates of York were blown open to Fairfax by the Cavaliers confined within its
walls;[2] and Monk, with his military, crossed the Tweed on his crusade against the advanced
posts of the enemy. Thus the fire of civil war was reignited in the north; within two days it was
finished. The messenger from parliament ordered Lambert's forces to leave to their respective
quarters. Disappointed by the defection of the military in the south, they dared not disobey:
at Northallerton the officers said farewell with tears to their general; and Lambert retired
in solidarity to a house which he owned in the county.

Still, though the weather was
[Footnote 1: Journals, Dec. 26, Jan. 31.]
[Footnote 2: That the rising under Fairfax was in reality a rising of royalists, and started
by the promises of Monk, is plain from the narrative of Monkton, in the Lansdowne MSS. No.
988, f. 320, 334. See also Price, 748.]
[Sidenote a: A.D. 1660. Jan. 1.]
severe, though the roads were heavily covered with snow, Monk continued[a] his march; and, at
York, spent five days in deliberation with Fairfax; but to the advice of that nobleman, that
he should stay there, take the command of their united forces, and
proclaim the king, he responded that, in the present temper of his
officers, it would prove a dangerous, a pernicious, experiment. The idea of an omnipotent being of perfection is something we have a notion of it, a
notion which we didn't create on our own and can only come from the
one who actually possesses all these attributes. This being he names
as God. There
are much difference between the cases arising under the Constitution and also the cases arising under
the laws of the United States. The restrictions put on the authority of the State legislature
gives examples to understand it better. For example, they are not to give paper money. This
is according to the Constitution and has no connection at all to any of the law of the United States.
However, if paper money is emited, then the controversies regarding it will come under the case
of the Constitution and not the laws of the United States. Also, the word "equity" has brought
about many questions. 

We were guided into another chamber, one that is open to the gallery
where both the bust of Adrian and the bust of Antinous are placed.

The entryway is flanked by intricately carved pilasters, within which are a number of miniature-filled and
perfumed cabinets, as well as one column that is about ten feet tall and consists of Oriental
alabaster.
"Lucido e terso, e bianco, piu che latte."
I decided to test the patience of my guide, lingering longer than the others, perhaps longer than I
should have. I spent my time examining the drawers of the cabinets. I probably would have stayed
longer but the perfume was too powerful and I was obliged to move along, now entering a suite of saloons.
The roofs were low and arched, sparkling in azure and gold. The occasional medallion sparkles
amongst the wreaths of foliage. The painting was of passable quality, and present were the feasts
and tournaments that Florence used to be famous for.
Innumerable pictures, mainly Flemish, dot the walls. These I only noticed later, however, because
Leonard da Vinci's Medusa's head captivated me. The head is a lesson in the grotesque, severed
from the body and discard on the floor of the cave. Ghostly white, the mouth releases a disgusting
gas and the serpents fill the rest of the frame with their slithering forms, some having already begun
to move away.
The color lends realism to the disturbing the image, while the lighting is so technical that the
mastery of the artist behind the work is apparent. These words are but a pale reflection of
the true impressiveness of the work, unfortunately.
Now I have discovered a number of Polemburgs. Amid the verdant and lovely visions of woods and
waterfalls that he is known for, there is a painting of Virgil show Dante into the realms of
everlasting punishment that stands alone in its unique nature. The hellish scene is filled
with fire, cliffs, solitary towers, scary shadows, and devils in a variety of terrifying forms.
The poor and desperate mortals are subjected to a variety of different
poses, all in pain and all trying to escape, like the poor bugger
in the claws of an enormous lobster-like monster.

Yet, the painting still captures the softness for which Polemburg has gained his fame, and the
delicacy that has helped him retain it.
It was only the inherent and startling contradiction between the depiction and the method of
depiction that caught my eye and spurred this explanation, otherwise I probably would have gazed
right over these works and brought your attention directly to the Tribune. When I saw the Venus
de Medicis I was in rapture. Absolutely captivated. The warmth and color of the marble called
to me. Its beauty retained within itself and never fully passed along to any other imitation or
copy. The execution of the anatomy of the statue gave it the impression of life.
On a side note, a small characteristic greatly increased the illusion of the statue for me, which
was the difference between the color of the face and the hair. The difference is ever so slight, ye the effect
is immense, bring ever closer the feeling that I was in the presence of the divine.
Ripping my eyes away from this beauty, I finally managed to move along, encountering Morpheus
dozing gently at the feet of the goddess like a sleeping infant. Tucked under his head, a lion,
and tucked under his body two wings, similar to those that adorn his head, hiding amongst his
cute curls. His lithe fingers contain poppies, and a lizard yields to his presence nearby. All
of the creatures show the just nature of this young divinity and his sleep, docile and completely
under his spell. My cogitations upon viewing the young god were quite satisfying, and soon I
found myself beginning to feel a little drowsy, longing to curl up his side for just a short
nap. I could no longer hold onto my anger and sense of injustice at the thought of seeing this
deity so badly sculpted in the gallery because of his wonderful execution
in the Tribune. 

On Sunday, day and night, Joe spent his time with his acquaintances.

Near the house, there were many moose though there is no caribou or deer.  There is a man from
old town whose out hunting for moose near the house. The old man has killed 10 or 12 moose
in the past year. So they all could hear his gunshot very near to the house.
 The Monsignor said that anyone could see the
government being special to us. People are arriving from all around the nation to carry out its
wishes and to march against Yugoslavia.

And it was true that we did see many men marching to Scutari, all
ages from teens to elders. There was nothing for it. I was acutely conscious of the empathy of my countenance,
drained by the evenings exertions, a contradiction to Willoughby's description of "delicate."
Now, It was impossible for me to stay in the car, so stepping heavily, I exited.
 That meant the widow had only the resources that the
trustees of the family let her have because she was the earl's mother. When he entered his
majority, she wouldn't have any resources of her own, and her daughter would have no support
whatsoever.

Because I'm using the first chapter to set up the geography
of my story, I won't say anything here about these ladies' characters.
That will be developed, as with the family members at Castle Richmond,
as the story evolves. No one can say that I know either your umbrella or my own
here. I feel like I know the other one is mine. I am mistaken about both, misunderstanding their
context.
We have written our text as if to think the critic was of one mind, and the criticism was towards
another feeling. But the criticised filling and its critic may be earlier and later feelings
from the same exact mind, it may appear that the notion of operating can be dispensed with,
so that critic and criticised mean and represent the same. We believe that we have a direct view to
our past feelings and know their reference. At worse, we always redirect our intentions with
the feeling at present and force it to refer to the reality where our past feelings have referred.
 

Novel reading, sounding on the piano - just another name for the entertainment - these are the
parents of such follies. Anne Dutton, as the owner of this establishment, has occupied his
time and helpful, and when the time is not far now to establish in their marriage, she married into
a family I know, and the prophecy that Romford I recall will take place largely at least. "  He
found out too late their error.
He came in haste to the office one morning, and though he was only five or six weeks since I
had seen, the change in its continuation, florida, has pride was so surprising and painful, I
do quite a leap of my feet with surprise.
"My God, Dutton, 'he cried, what is the matter?
What happened? '
"Nothing has happened, Mr. Sharp," he said, but what was predicted, and that, had it not been the vain
idiot in existence, I should have anticipated.
You know that cute, inactive, and, I fear, hopeless young fellow, George Hamblin?
"I've seen it once or twice. Did not his father brought to the brink of home working for low dissipation
and extravagance?
"Yes. Well, it's a pretender accepted the hand of Anne Dutton. No wonder it starts. She imagines
him hopelessly in love with ---- No, Sharp, I listen. I tried to counter the threats, pleas, place it,
but it is useless.

I'll kill the fool if they persist, and I have at last consented to
the marriage.

Because I can not see her die "I started complaining about the folly of giving consent to a marriage
so ruinous, because of a few tears and hysteria, but I stopped peremptorily Dutton.
"It is useless to talk," he said. "The die is cast, I have given my word.
I almost did not recognize, is so upset. I did not know before, "added the strong man, stern,
her voice shaking and eyes bright," which was so inextricably intertwined on my heart - my life
'is difficult to estimate the bitterness of disappointment for a proud man, as an aspiring
Dutton .
I pitied him sincerely wrong, if not guilty, as it had been.
"I have only myself, 'now resumed." A girl of cultivated taste and mind could not have given
a second thought about George Hamblin. But let the point. I want the marriage settlement, and
my will to be so elaborate, that every penny received from me during my life, and after my
death, will be her, and she alone, and so strict and totally secure, which without power to
cede control of the lower portion thereof, should be so-minded. "I wrote down his instructions, and
the works required will agree with them. When the day came to the firm, the groom-elect initially
objected to the stringency of the provisions of the marriage contract, but as this point, Mr.
Dutton proved to be inflexible, the clown handsome, illiterate - which was not much better -
gave up their scruples, the more easily as safe a life of leisure in front of him, from the virtual
control that was sure to have on the earnings of his wife . These were the thoughts that went
through his mind, I was very sure how to take the pen awkwardly in
his hand, he put his mark on the marriage and writing. I blushed with
shame, and the muffled whine when injured slightly in the ear once
again broken confessed miserable folly of the father failed to make
your child beautiful beyond all possibility of mental contact or communion
with a person. The marriage was solemnized soon after, but did not
wait to witness the ceremony. The
new Fog Policy is supported through the idea of those who laugh, win. This is perhaps not
so accidental and undesigned as people think.
Consider the business complete. A night was wasted in the Commons,
and in Lords; light hides behind the Fog. 

That was one of my first-class excogitation";[6177]M. de fontanes and the other college men did not
realize this or want to realize it. napolean himself could give only a secondment of devotion
to his school task, his stopping-charms between two crusade; [6178] in his lack, "they spoiled
for him his best ideas";"his assassinators "never nicely carried out his objectives. "He yelled
at them, and they bent down to the outburst, but not the less persistent on in the regular way."
Fourcroy kept too much of the gyration in mind, and Fontanes was too much a man of truth and
reality, and the latter too much a man of letters; with such efficiency they laid too big stress
on obscure erudition and too less on control of feelings The dye which has the common trade name Suranji is also having other name.The dye have some properties
which are caused by the factor glucoside .The name of that glucoside is Morindin.The Morindin
chemical name is trioxy-methyl-antraquinone and it is compounded
from glucose It had the signature
of the elder Barricini. It informed Orso that he was laying the threatening letter sent to his son
before the public prosecutor. His missive concluded: "I have a clear conscience, so I will wait
patiently until the law has decided about your calumnies."
At the same time five or six herdsmen arrived to garrison the della Rebbia Tower. They had been
summoned by Colomba. Even though Orso protested, archere were arrenged in the windows looking
onto the square. Through all the evening there came offers of service from persons belonging
to the village. There was even a letter from the bandit-theologian saying that in the event of
the mayor's calling on the gendarmes, he and Brandolaccio would intervene. The letter was closed
by the following postscript:
"May I ask you what the Signor Prefetto thinks of the excellent education bestowed by my friend
on brusco, the dog? Together with Chilina, he is the most docile and promising pupil I have ever come
across."
CHAPTER XVI
Next day was not followed by any hostile demonstration. Both sides did not attack. Orso stayed
in the house, and the door of the Barricini dwelling remained closely shut. The five gendarmes
walked about the square and the outskirts of the village, together with the village constable,
the sole representative of the urban police force. The deputy-mayor never put off his sash. There
was no sign of war, except the loopholes in the two opponents' houses. Only a Corsican would have
noticed that the group round the evergreen oak in the middle of the
square consisted of only women. 
 At supper-time Colomba showed
her brother a letter. The letter was from Miss Nevil. 
 "My dear
Signorina Colomba," it ran, "I learn with pleause, through a letter
from your brother, that your enmities are all at an end. I congratulate
you heartily. As my heart beat faster and faster, I returned to tell
her that she was desired. Without showing alarm, a look of satisfaction over the choice appeared
to make her feel important. She then rushed off to join the person waiting for her.
 

The twisted streets and aged buildings and were beautiful.

The sight of old landmarks made us forget about our political and religious differences. We would
gladly kept everything as is once was before, cherishing the past. We treasure the memory of
our fathers and desire to keep among us the rememberance of good days. This thought is noble.
However, it is also noble to consider not only those who have come before, but those who will
come after us. Due
to the treachery of trusted subordinates, I have heard both ex-President Jimenez and ex-President
Morales complaining sorrowfully about their fall.A prominent politician, General Luis Felipe Vidal
who participated in the murder of President Caceres,though he had only a few hours before visiting
the president, played billiards with him and fondled his infant daughter and this was a particularly
repulsive case of perfidiousness.
To every class of the populations as dancing,it appeals so strongly
in all amusements. "Please tell me, explain to me how you feel, what made you love me and believe in
me? Men attracted to me, like me and adore me. I am a social force. Everywhere I go men will come
near me and surrounded me" She said to him. "Oh Yes, I notice all that" answered the boy.
 Instead of thinking of the end of its constituents
as solid spots floating in a vacuum, we must understand that in itself is null, which apparently
is solid and that spots are air bubbles, but on it. Once understood that, everything else remains
as before. The relative position of what we have called matter and force yet remains for us as always,
is just that, on closer examination, both of these concepts prove to be variants of force, a
combination of ensouling Moreover, genuine "issue" koilon, is regarded as something which was
hitherto entirely outside our thinking.
Given this wonderful distribution Himself in "space", a concept familiar to sacrifice "logos" takes
on a new depth and beauty, it is His "dying in matter," his "perpetual sacrifice" , and glory
can be very logos that He can sacrifice himself for the edges of such entry and make a part
of koilon with him that he chooses as the field's universe.
What koilon is, what its origin, whether it is itself changed by the Divine Breath which is poured into
it - not "Dark Space", becoming "Bright Space" at the beginning of events - these are questions?
At present we can not even indicate answers. Somehow an intelligent study of the Scriptures of
the world can get great answers.
* * * * *
NOTES
[1] See footnote in the next chapter. 
[2] drawings of items were
made by two Theosophical artists, Herr Hecker and Mrs. Kirby, whom
we thank sincerely diagrams showing construction details of each element
"," labor owe the most thorough Mr. Jinarâjadâsa, without whose
help would have been impossible for us to be presented clearly and
definitively complicated scheme by which chemical elements are built. I asked him if he was from around here, and when he told me that he lived next
door, I knew he was the profit. He looked very nervous and wouldn't look me in the eye.
I couldn't help but confront him about it. Several and
various were the editions that printed from the early presses. Caxton issued it around 1489,
but of this thick quarto impression one imperfect print only has survived. A second edition,
as we know from the colophon of the third edition, was 'imprinted at London by Wynken de Worde,
the viii daye of Maye, and the year of our lorde M.CCCCC. iiii'; but a single leaf, foundin the
pages of an ancient book, is the only representative of an edition that is believed to have run
several hundreds.
In the case of few at least of these early books there is one more reason for their vanishing and
. Stephen Vaughan, the indefatigable agent of Mr. Secretary Cromwell, writing to his master from
Antwerp, quotes that he is 'muche desirous t'atteyne the knowlage of the Frenche tonge,' but that
he is not able to obtain a print of the only primer which he knows
to survive.

This volume, known as'L'Esclarcissement de la Langue Francoyse,' was 'compose par Maistre Jehan
Palsgraue, Angloys, natyf de Londres et gradue de Paris,' and was published by Pynson, though it
was completed and printed by Hawkins in 1530.
Palsgrave, the author, seems to have been determined that his book should not go into the hands
of other teachers of French (he was 'scolemaster' to the Princess Mary, sister of Henry VIII.,
in 1513, at a stipend of £6 13s. 4d.); and although Vaughan writes that he 'made not a letle
labour to Mr. Palsgrave to have one of his books,' yet 'in no wise he wolde graunt for no price.'
So Vaughan entreats Thomas Cromwell to get a copy for him, 'not doubtyng but though he unkyndly denyd
me one, he will not denye youe one.'
Clearly Palsgrave had got into some kind of adjustment with the printer, for Vaughan writes that
he 'hathe willed Pynson to sell none of them to any other person than to suche as he shall
comaunde to have them, lest his proffit by teching the Frenche tonge myght be mynished by the
sale of the same to suche persons as, besids hym, wern disposed to studye the sayd tongue.'

From this premise it is easy to know why 'L'Esclarcissement' is such
a rare book. 
Very less copies indeed are known to survive. Yet
one cannot help thinking what happened to the copies that had not
been disposed of at the author's death. Probably a very little number
was published, and may be'Johan Haukyns,' true to his pact, destroyed
those on hand. If it is of his own squadron or division
and his ship has been attacked and no longer functioning, the flag officer of that vessle is allowed
to board any private ship that he views as appropriate for continuing the service he has been
apopointed. However, his own squadron or division is preferred.

20). To ensure speedy communication of the admirals orders, division commanders (flag officers)
must always repeat the admirals signals generally and in reference to their own divisions.

When the signals have been made by the flag officers, and repeated for the conduct of specific
divisions, the signals should be treated as if they were made by the admiral.

21). To attack the rear of an enemy ship, the first ship of the fleet
in the line must attack and then fall to the rear of the foramtion,
with each ship in the line following the same pattern.

22). To attack
in succession, the second ship of the fleet in the line should make
way for the attacking ship and wait until the first ship begins to
move oaway before making their attack. 

At the same time, a friend pondered whether required capital could be borrowed for enough dairy-farming
and water-power for both tramway and funicular; the other friend searched for differentiations
and unrest and searched his memory for past knowledge with regard to various tribes that inhabit the
country.
The scientific man, always interested in causing a scene, even minor once such as remaining
reticent in a picturesque nature scene, commented, "do you regret not bringing painting supplies?
You seem like a painter."
The practical man who was used to weighing motivations, retorted, "If you are not a painter,
then I propose you are a writer, thinking of how to use descriptions of this place."
At this point, the third traveler noted, "Listen, I am not an artist. I am neither a painter
or writer, and it's a good thing too. Because I am not an artist, I can appreciate my surroundings,
without having to look at angles, or metaphors. Although, I would love to have the art to
keep this scenery with me. Upon our return to London it is possible for me to enjoy hearing
you talking about progress and geological outcomes, as this will trigger my memories of this
scene - albeit a scene which you have ruined with your chatter."
Simultaneously, the other two remarked, "That's what it is to be artsy."
With anger, the third man retorted, "And you think you are being practical or scientific."
While the attitudes of the practical and scientific man differed greatly, as the practical man was
singularly focused on results, and the scientific man focusing not on beneficial results, but
on causality, both differed similarly to the man who postulated on
nature and the scenery.

The third man thought that practical man and the scientific man were thinking of consequences
and origin. They were separate from the landscape. The practical man analyzed the utility
of his surrounding, looking at the plain and the hill, to gauge water level and the possibility of
tramway by a funicular. The scientific man turned his back to nature, looking at specific rocks.
However, the men missed that outside of the items, and the angles of the items, was a way to
comprehend the landscape in a spiritual nature. The practical man saw both the hills as well
as the practical possibilities those hill could become, seeing not only a hill, but the progress
the hills can contain from advertisements to tram-lines. Instead of seeing hills, the scientific
man's inner eye saw geological stages, and nature under a microscope. The men only saw not what was
there, but passed over the scene to see what they desired. Thoughts led one to another, which
led to an excitement. However, this excitement was not in regard to the images, but to the
reality that the thoughts were emerging. There was a goal, not an appreciation of the scenery itself.
The exciting factor for both men was what the scene would bring, whether future outcomes, or disconnected,
scientific, impersonal facts, respectively.
We will now move onto the cerebral beliefs of the third man, the man whom the other two believed
was a writer, and wrote off as an artsy person.  CHAPTER III
ELEMENTS VERSUS OBJECTS
After finding a specific perspective which he preferred, the man paused and thought of the images
it provided him. 

4. Education 
There are ways to gain knowledge other than via experiment.
One way is via education: rather than directly learning via experiments,
one can learn indirectly via others. By using this method to pass
the experience and  experimental results from the race to the newcomers,
there will less experimentation needed, since education will transmit
most of what will need to be known. It is often obvious to most readers that reading a person's gestures
means reading a whole new syntax, built from its own lexicon and lacking
in grammatical structures and constructs that one would take for granted
in language speech and writing. A gesture accomplishes the objective
of a grammatical construct through an entirely alien method to written
and spoken language. This does not mean though that the language is
completely unintelligible, as there is a grouping and sequence that
can be academically classified. This is the main subject, garnished
with notes stemming from the speculations of M. Remi Valade and others,
in the following paragraph without further ado. Special mention will
be made to notable observations by LEIBNITZ. 

Mimic construction
is built upon several fundamental concepts - considering the order
in which signs are produced (taking into account the fact that a person
puts more emphasis on a sign produced second over one that is produced
first) as well as the theory that the birth of language arrived when
people tried to replicate bodily gestures with sounds. This has created
many different variations among regions. If an alphabet was introduced
externally first before it was developed from gestures, then it is
likely that the alphabet was utilized by the people to mimic their
way of speech. However, if the alphabet was developed from gestures
and signs, then the figures would follow from the signs, and the spoken
language from the figures. LEIBNITZ observes then the interesting
theory that "the writing of the Chinese might seem to have been invented
by a deaf person." In this theory, Indo-European languages were characterized
by having their alphabet developed from speech and thus their order
dictated through speech. In China, the reverse may be true. 

The
spoken word benefits from the speaker's ability to vary the tone and
inflection of the word, adding emphasis to a particular word for rhetorical
purposes. The gesture and sign language does not share the same benefit,
and so must either abstract a complex rhetorical concept into a gesture
or place inflection in how the gesture is performed. Thus the sign
talker can be said to be an artist, given the difficult task of grouping
people and ideas together to make their connections obvious through
purely visual stimuli. But the metaphor is not perfect, as the artist
must freeze his image in time, while the sign talker has the benefit
of resetting his image to get the point across. Thus the arrangement
becomes more essential to the observer. 

Though it is impossible
to truly depict the experience of signs through written words - as
the benefit of seeing the pictorial arrangements is entirely missing
- we should accept as a passable imitation this passage from an essay
by Rev. J. R. Keep, in American Annals of the Deaf and Dumb, vol.
xvi, p. 223. Here, the parable of the Prodigal Son is translated into
sign: 

"Once, man one, sons two. Son younger say, Father property
your divide: part my, me give. Father so.--Son each, part his give.
Days few after, son younger money all take, country far go, money
spend, wine drink, food nice eat. Money by and by gone all. Country
everywhere food little: son hungry very. Go seek man any, me hire.
Gentleman meet. Gentleman son send field swine feed. Son swine husks
eat, see--self husks eat want--cannot--husks him give nobody. Son
thinks, say, father my, servants many, bread enough, part give away
can--I none--starve, die. I decide: Father I go to, say I bad, God
disobey, you disobey--name my hereafter son, no--I unworthy." At four o'clock, gratified that no practical intent could be effected
by going further away up the stream, we finished at a accumulation
of huts called Las Sandias,--not inappropriately, for the total inclining
bank of the waterway, which here seemed to be little better than a
barren sand-bed, was included, for a quarter of a mile, with a luxuriant
crop of water- and musk-melons, now in their perfection. We paid for
as more as we could bear off for a real. They were full, affluent,
and juicy, and confirmed to be a thankful restorative, after our day's
exposure to the direct rays of the sun, and their scarcely less supportable
reflection from the water. The melon-patch of Las Sandias is overflowed
defying the rainy time of the year, and possibly the blatantly bare,
sandy covering obscures affluent bank deposits of loam below. We
encountered the stream here vibrant with an energetic and blatantly
voracious fish, varying in distance from fourteen to 20 inches, reddish
in shade of color, and intimately resembling the Snapper of the Atlantic
seaside area of Central America. The male inhabitants of Las Sandias
were inhabited by in catching these fishes with hand-nets, in the
rifts and currents; and the women were occupied in washing and drying
them. Their offal had amassed throughout the huts in assault heaps,
and granted out an odor which was virtually insupportable, but of
which the women seemed to take no notice. We did not, consequently,
trespass long on their hospitality, but returned to our vessel and
commenced back to La Union. Gay's ardent adore for angling is well famous; it was his major work
in the summer at Amesbury; and "the late outstanding John Tobin, writer
of the Honey Moon, was an enthusiastic angler." Between heroes, Trajan
loved of angling. The clip frequently is set in the cartilaginous
piece of the mouth, where there are no nerves; and a evidence that
the sufferings of a hooked fish cannot be vast is found in the situation,
that even if a trout has been hooked and played for several minutes,
he will often, after his break out with the fake fly in his lips,
obtain the usual fly, and feed as if nothing had happened; having
apparently learnt merely since the trial, that the fake fly is not
appropriate for food. And I have trapped pikes with four or five hooks
in their mouths, and tackle which they had wrecked just a few minutes
before; and the hooks seemed to have had no extra result than that
of serving as a kind of paste tasty, advice them to grab one more
morsel of the identical class.--The advocates for a preferred pursuit
never wish for sophisms to guard it. I have yet heard it asserted
that a hare enjoys being hunted. Yet I will permit that fly-fishing,
following your vindication, appears with the slightest nasty of field
sports.  
We have to; still, detain ourselves to a little colloquial
extracts from the practical piece of the quantity; as  
Flies on
the Wandle, &c.  
Orn.-- Definitely the May-fly period is not the
lone time for day-fishing in this stream? [the Wandle.]--Hal. Surely
not. There are as various fish to be taken, maybe, in the spring fishing;
but in this deep waterway they are rarely in superior period till
the May-fly has been on, and a fortnight thus they will be still enhanced
than even now. In September there might be fine fish in use here;
but the autumnal flies are less copious in this river than the spring
flies--Phys, Pray tell me what be the variety of fly which obtain
in these two seasons.--Hal. You know that trout spawn or dump their
ova, &c. in the conclusion of the autumn or commencement of coldness,
from the center of November till the start of January, their ripeness
depending ahead the warmth of the period, their measure of food, &c.
They are at least six weeks or two months after they have spawned
before they get better their flesh; and the occasion when these fish
are at the nastiest, is similarly the worst time for fly-fishing,
both on account of the icy climate, and as there are less flies on
the stream than at some other season. Even in December and January
there are a little tiny gnats or water-flies on the water in the center
of the day, in brilliant days, or when there is sunlight. These are
normally black, and they run away the pressure of the frost by the
effects of glow on their black bodies, and most likely by the tremendous
quickness of the motions of their fluids, and normally of their organs.
They are found only at the exterior of the water, where the heat must
be higher than the icy point. The Eyfel district, which borders the Rhine, is another location where
volcanoes which are now extinct, are located. They can be found in
the form of round craters, filled now with water, and volcanic ejectons
at their borders. He would surely be a captive for a hundred years should he decide
to pass through the holes. The fragments in the holes would then dash
out and snatch him up the tree from which they originated and capture
him. 
Quicoy was so delighted by the thought that he could capture
the Ongloc, and decided to go for it that very night. Some of the
boys that he asked to accompany him said that he must go by himself
or else the charm would have no effect. But they warned him to be
cautious enough not to pass the line between the hollows or suffer
the consequence of being a captive just like the Ongloc. M. Flaubert has taken the part of the extreme sacrament from the book
which a revered priest, one of his mate, gave him; this same friend
has read the part and moved to tears, not thinking that the majesty
of religion was in any way insulted. The book is named: An historic,
assertive, moral, conventional and legal explanation of the questioning,
with an answer to the doubts extracted from science against religion,
by the Abbe Ambriose Guillois, caretaker of Notre-Dame-du-Pre, 6th
edition, etc., a chore accepted by His Eminence the Cardinal Gousset,
N.N.S.S. the Bishops and Archbishops of Mans, of tours, of Bordeaux,
of Cologne,etc., vol. iii., printed at Mans, by Charles Monnoyer.
1851.