Having crossed the creek on a flat log, secured with stakes at either end, a few more paces
brought her to the warm, gentle knoll, upon which stood the farm-house. Here, the wood ceased,
and the creek, sweeping around to the eastward, embraced a quarter of a mile of rich bottomland,
before entering the rocky dell below. It was a pleasant seat, and the age of the house denoted
that one of the earliest settlers had been quick to perceive its advantages. A hundred years
had already elapsed since the masons had run up those walls of rusty hornblende rock, and it
was even said that the leaden window-sashes, with their diamond-shaped panes of greenish glass,
had been brought over from England, in the days of William Penn. In fact, the ancient aspect
of the place--the tall, massive chimney at the gable, the heavy, projecting eaves, and the
holly-bush in a warm nook beside the front porch, had, nineteen years before, so forcibly reminded
one of Howe's soldiers of his father's homestead in mid-England, that he was numbered among
the missing after the Brandywine battle, and presently turned up as a hired hand on the Barton
farm, where he still lived, year in and year out.

An open, grassy space, a hundred yards in breadth, intervened between the house and the barn,
which was built against the slope of the knoll, so that the bridge to the threshing-floor was
nearly level, and the stables below were sheltered from the north winds, and open to the winter
sun. On the other side of the lane leading from the high-road stood a wagon-house and corn-crib--the
latter empty, yet evidently, in spite of its emptiness, the principal source of attraction
to the visitors. A score of men and boys peeped between the upright laths, and a dozen dogs
howled and sprang around the smooth corner-posts upon which the structure rested. At the door
stood old Giles, the military straggler already mentioned--now a grizzly, weather-beaten man
of fifty--with a jolly grin on his face, and a short leather whip in his hand.

"Want to see him, Miss Betsy?" he asked, touching his mink-skin cap, as Miss Lavender crawled
through the nearest panel of the lofty picket fence.

"See him?" she repeated. "Don't care if I do, afore goin' into th' house."

"Come up, then; out o' the way, Cato! Fan, take that, you slut! Don't be afeard, Miss Betsy;
if folks kept 'em in the leash, as had ought to be done, I'd have less trouble. They're mortal
eager, and no wonder. There!--a'n't he a sly-lookin' divel? If I'd a hoss, Miss Betsy, I'd
foller with the best of 'em, and maybe you wouldn't have the brush?"

"Have the brush. Go along, Giles! He's an old one, and knows how to take care of it. Do keep
off the dreadful dogs, and let me git down!" cried Miss Lavender, gathering her narrow petticoats
about her legs, and surveying the struggling animals before her with some dismay.

Giles's whip only reached the nearest, and the excited pack rushed forward again after every
repulse; but at this juncture a tall, smartly-dressed man came across the lane, kicked the
hounds out of the way, and extended a helping hand to the lady.

"Ho, Mr. Alfred!" said she; "Much obliged. Miss Ann's havin' her hands full, I reckon?"

Without waiting for an answer, she slipped into the yard and along the front of the house,
to the kitchen entrance, at the eastern end. There we will leave her, and return to the group
of gentlemen.

Any one could see at a glance that Mr. Alfred Barton was the most important person present.
His character of host gave him, of course, the right to control the order of the coming chase;
but his size and swaggering air of strength, his new style of hat, the gloss of his blue coat,
the cut of his buckskin breeches, and above all, the splendor of his tasselled top-boots, distinguished
him from his more homely apparelled guests. His features were large and heavy: the full, wide
lips betrayed a fondness for indulgence, and the small, uneasy eyes a capacity for concealing
this and any other quality which needed concealment. They were hard and cold, generally more
than half hidden under thick lids, and avoided, rather than sought, the glance of the man to
whom he spoke. His hair, a mixture of red-brown and gray, descended, without a break, into
bushy whiskers of the same color, and was cut shorter at the back of the head than was then
customary. Something coarse and vulgar in his nature exhaled, like a powerful odor, through
the assumed shell of a gentleman, which he tried to wear, and rendered the assumption useless.

A few guests, who had come from a distance, had just finished their dinner in the farm-house.
Owing to causes which will hereafter be explained, they exhibited less than the usual plethoric
satisfaction after the hospitality of the country, and were the first to welcome the appearance
of a square black bottle, which went the rounds, with the observation: "Whet up for a start!"

Mr. Barton drew a heavy silver watch from his fob, and carefully holding it so that the handful
of glittering seals could be seen by everybody, appeared to meditate.

"Five minutes to one," he said at last. "No use in waiting much longer; 't isn't good to keep
the hounds fretting. Any signs of anybody else?"

The others, in response, turned towards the lane and highway. Some, with keen eyes, fancied
they could detect a horseman through the wood. Presently Giles, from his perch at the door
of the corn-crib, cried out:

"There's somebody a-comin' up the meadow. I don't know the hoss; rides like Gilbert Potter.
Gilbert it is, blast me! new-mounted."

"Another plough-horse!" suggested Mr. Joel Ferris, a young Pennsbury buck, who, having recently
come into a legacy of four thousand pounds, wished it to be forgotten that he had never ridden
any but plough-horses until within the year.

The others laughed, some contemptuously, glancing at their own well-equipped animals the while,
some constrainedly, for they knew the approaching guest, and felt a slight compunction in seeming
to side with Mr. Ferris. Barton began to smile stiffly, but presently bit his lip and drew
his brows together.

Pressing the handle of his riding-whip against his chin, he stared vacantly up the lane, muttering
"We must wait, I suppose."

His lids were lifted in wonder the next moment; he seized Ferris by the arm, and exclaimed:--

"Whom have we here?"

All eyes turned in the same direction, descried a dashing horseman in the lane.

"Upon my soul I don't know," said Ferris. "Anybody expected from the Fagg's Manor way?"

"Not of my inviting," Barton answered.

The other guests professed their entire ignorance of the stranger, who, having by this time
passed the bars, rode directly up to the group. He was a short, broad-shouldered man of nearly
forty, with a red, freckled face, keen, snapping gray eyes, and a close, wide mouth. Thick,
jet-black whiskers, eyebrows and pig-tail made the glance of those eyes, the gleam of his teeth,
and the color of his skin where it was not reddened by the wind, quite dazzling. This violent
and singular contrast gave his plain, common features an air of distinction. Although his mulberry
coat was somewhat faded, it had a jaunty cut, and if his breeches were worn and stained, the
short, muscular thighs and strong knees they covered, told of a practised horseman.

He rode a large bay gelding, poorly groomed, and apparently not remarkable for blood, but with
no marks of harness on his rough coat.

"Good-day to you, gentlemen!" said the stranger, familiarly knocking the handle of his whip
against his cocked hat. "Squire Barton, how do you do?"

"How do you do, sir?" responded Mr. Barton, instantly flattered by the title, to which he had
no legitimate right. "I believe," he added, "you have the advantage of me."

A broad smile, or rather grin, spread over the stranger's face. His teeth flashed, and his
eyes shot forth a bright, malicious ray. He hesitated a moment, ran rapidly over the faces
of the others without perceptibly moving his head, and noting the general curiosity, said,
at last:--

"I hardly expected to find an acquaintance in this neighborhood, but a chase makes quick fellowship.
I happened to hear of it at the Anvil Tavern,--am on my way to the Rising Sun; so, you see,
if the hunt goes down Tuffkenamon, as is likely, it's so much of a lift on the way."

"All right,--glad to have you join us. What did you say your name was?" inquired Mr. Barton.

"I didn't say what; it's Fortune,--a fortune left to me by my father, ha! ha! Don't care if I do"--

With the latter words, Fortune (as we must now call him) leaned down from his saddle, took
the black bottle from the unresisting hands of Mr. Ferris, inverted it against his lips, and
drank so long and luxuriously as to bring water into the mouths of the spectators. Then, wiping
his mouth with the back of his freckled hand, he winked and nodded his head approvingly to
Mr. Barton.

Meanwhile the other horseman had arrived from the meadow, after dismounting and letting down
the bars, over which his horse stepped slowly and cautiously,--a circumstance which led some
of the younger guests to exchange quiet, amused glances. Gilbert Potter, however, received
a hearty greeting from all, including the host, though the latter, by an increased shyness
in meeting his gaze, manifested some secret constraint.

"I was afraid I should have been too late," said Gilbert; "the old break in the hedge is stopped
at last, so I came over the hill above, without thinking on the swampy bit, this side."

"Breaking your horse in to rough riding, eh?" said Mr. Ferris, touching a neighbor with his elbow.

Gilbert smiled good-humoredly, but said nothing, and a little laugh went around the circle.
Mr. Fortune seemed to understand the matter in a flash. He looked at the brown, shaggy-maned
animal, standing behind its owner, with its head down, and said, in a low, sharp tone: "I see--where
did you get him?"

Gilbert returned the speaker's gaze a moment before he answered. "From a drover," he then said.

"By the Lord!"-ejaculated Mr. Barton, who had again conspicuously displayed his watch, "it's
over half-past one. Look out for the hounds,--we must start, if we mean to do any riding this day!"

The owners of the hounds picked out their several animals and dragged them aside, in which
operation they were uproariously assisted by the boys. The chase in Kennett, it must be confessed,
was but a very faint shadow of the old English pastime. It had been kept up, in the neighborhood,
from the force of habit in the Colonial times, and under the depression which the strong Quaker
element among the people exercised upon all sports and recreations. The breed of hounds, not
being restricted to close communion, had considerably degenerated, and few, even of the richer
farmers, could afford to keep thoroughbred hunters for this exclusive object. Consequently
all the features of the pastime had become rude and imperfect, and, although very respectable
gentlemen still gave it their countenance, there was a growing suspicion that it was a questionable,
if not demoralizing diversion. It would be more agreeable if we could invest the present occasion
with a little more pomp and dignity; but we must describe the event precisely as it occurred.

The first to greet Gilbert were his old friends, Joe and Jake Fairthorn. These boys loudly
lamented that their father had denied them the loan of his old gray mare, Bonnie; they could
ride double on a gallop, they said; and wouldn't Gilbert take them along, one before and one
behind him? But he laughed and shook his head.

"Well, we've got Watch, anyhow," said Joe, who thereupon began whispering very earnestly to
Jake, as the latter seized the big family bull-dog by the collar. Gilbert foreboded mischief,
and kept his eye upon the pair.

A scuffle was heard in the corn-crib, into which Giles had descended. The boys shuddered and
chuckled in a state of delicious fear, which changed into a loud shout of triumph, as the soldier
again made his appearance at the door, with the fox in his arms, and a fearless hand around
its muzzle.

"By George! what a fine brush!" exclaimed Mr. Ferris.

A sneer, quickly disguised in a grin, ran over Fortune's face. The hounds howled and tugged;
Giles stepped rapidly across the open space where the knoll sloped down to the meadow. It was
a moment of intense expectation.

Just then, Joe and Jake Fairthorn let go their hold on the bull-dog's collar; but Gilbert Potter
caught the animal at the second bound. The boys darted behind the corn-crib, scared less by
Gilbert's brandished whip than by the wrath and astonishment in Mr. Barton's face.

"Cast him off, Giles!" the latter cried.

The fox, placed upon the ground, shot down the slope and through the fence into the meadow.
Pausing then, as if first to assure himself of his liberty, he took a quick, keen survey of
the ground before him, and then started off towards the left.

"He's making for the rocks!" cried Mr. Ferris; to which the stranger, who was now watching
the animal with sharp interest, abruptly answered, "Hold your tongue!"

Within a hundred yards the fox turned to the right, and now, having apparently made up his
mind to the course, struck away in a steady but not hurried trot. In a minute he had reached
the outlying trees of the timber along the creek.

"He's a cool one, he is!" remarked Giles, admiringly.

By this time he was hidden by the barn from the sight of the hounds, and they were let loose.
While they darted about in eager quest of the scent, the hunters mounted in haste. Presently
an old dog gave tongue like a trumpet, the pack closed, and the horsemen followed. The boys
kept pace with them over the meadow, Joe and Jake taking the lead, until the creek abruptly
stopped their race, when they sat down upon the bank and cried bitterly, as the last of the
hunters disappeared through the thickets on the further side.

It was not long before a high picket-fence confronted the riders. Mr. Ferris, with a look of
dismay, dismounted. Fortune, Barton, and Gilbert Potter each threw off a heavy "rider," and
leaped their horses over the rails. The others followed through the gaps thus made, and all
swept across the field at full speed, guided by the ringing cry of the hounds.

When they reached the Wilmington road, the cry swerved again to the left, and most of the hunters,
with Barton at their head, took the highway in order to reach the crossroad to New-Garden more
conveniently. Gilbert and Fortune alone sprang into the opposite field, and kept a straight
southwestern course for the other branch of Redley Creek. The field was divided by a stout
thorn-hedge from the one beyond it, and the two horsemen, careering neck and neck, glanced
at each other curiously as they approached this barrier. Their respective animals were transformed;
the unkempt manes were curried by the wind, as they flew; their sleepy eyes were full of fire,
and the splendid muscles, aroused to complete action, marked their hides with lines of beauty.
There was no wavering in either; side by side they hung in flight above the hedge, and side
by side struck the clean turf beyond.

Then Fortune turned his head, nodded approvingly to Gilbert, and muttered to himself: "He's
a gallant fellow,--I'll not rob him of the brush." But he laughed a short, shrill, wicked laugh
the next moment.

Before they reached the creek, the cry of the hounds ceased. They halted a moment on the bank,
irresolute.

"He must have gone down towards the snuff-mill," said Gilbert, and was about to change his course.

"Stop," said the stranger; "if he has, we've lost him any way. Hark! hurrah!"

A deep bay rang from the westward, through the forest. Gilbert shouted: "The lime-quarry!"
and dashed across the stream. A lane was soon reached, and as the valley opened, they saw the
whole pack heading around the yellow mounds of earth which marked the locality of the quarry.
At the same instant some one shouted in the rear, and they saw Mr. Alfred Barton, thundering
after, and apparently bent on diminishing the distance between them.

A glance was sufficient to show that the fox had not taken refuge in the quarry, but was making
a straight course up the centre of the valley. Here it was not so easy to follow. The fertile
floor of Tuffkenamon, stripped of woods, was crossed by lines of compact hedge, and, moreover,
the huntsmen were not free to tear and trample the springing wheat of the thrifty Quaker farmers.
Nevertheless, one familiar with the ground could take advantage of a gap here and there, choose
the connecting pasture-fields, and favor his course with a bit of road, when the chase swerved
towards either side of the valley. Gilbert Potter soon took the lead, closely followed by Fortune.
Mr. Barton was perhaps better mounted than either, but both horse and rider were heavier, and
lost in the moist fields, while they gained rapidly where the turf was firm.

After a mile and a half of rather toilsome riding, all three were nearly abreast. The old tavern
of the Hammer and Trowel was visible, at the foot of the northern hill; the hounds, in front,
bayed in a straight line towards Avondale Woods,--but a long slip of undrained bog made its
appearance. Neither gentleman spoke, for each was silently tasking his wits how to accomplish
the passage most rapidly. The horses began to sink into the oozy soil: only a very practised
eye could tell where the surface was firmest, and even this knowledge was but slight advantage.

Nimbly as a cat Gilbert sprang from the saddle, still holding the pummel in his right hand,
touched his horse's flank with the whip, and bounded from one tussock to another. The sagacious
animal seemed to understand and assist his manoeuvre. Hardly had he gained firm ground than
he was in his seat again, while Mr. Barton was still plunging in the middle of the bog.

By the time he had reached the road, Gilbert shrewdly guessed where the chase would terminate.
The idlers on the tavern-porch cheered him as he swept around the corner; the level highway
rang to the galloping hoofs of his steed, and in fifteen minutes he had passed the long and
lofty oak woods of Avondale. At the same moment, fox and hounds broke into full view, sweeping
up the meadow on his left. The animal made a last desperate effort to gain a lair among the
bushes and loose stones on the northern hill; but the hunter was there before him, the hounds
were within reach, and one faltering moment decided his fate.

Gilbert sprang down among the frantic dogs, and saved the brush from the rapid dismemberment
which had already befallen its owner. Even then, he could only assure its possession by sticking
it into his hat and remounting his horse. When he looked around, no one was in sight, but the
noise of hoofs was heard crashing through the wood.

Mr. Ferris, with some dozen others, either anxious to spare their horses or too timid to take
the hedges in the valley, had kept the cross-road to New-Garden, whence a lane along the top
of the southern hill led them into the Avondale Woods. They soon emerged, shouting and yelling,
upon the meadow.

The chase was up; and Gilbert Potter, on his "plough horse," was the only huntsman in at the death.

CHAPTER II.

WHO SHALL HAVE THE BRUSH?

Mr. Barton and Fortune, who seemed to have become wonderfully intimate during the half hour
in which they had ridden together, arrived at the same time. The hunters, of whom a dozen were
now assembled (some five or six inferior horses being still a mile in the rear), were all astounded,
and some of them highly vexed, at the result of the chase. Gilbert's friends crowded about
him, asking questions as to the course he had taken, and examining the horse, which had maliciously
resumed its sleepy look, and stood with drooping head. The others had not sufficient tact to
disguise their ill-humor, for they belonged to that class which, in all countries, possesses
the least refinement--the uncultivated rich.

"The hunt started well, but it's a poor finish," said one of these.

"Never mind!" Mr. Ferris remarked; "such things come by chance."

These words struck the company to silence. A shock, felt rather than perceived, fell upon them,
and they looked at each other with an expression of pain and embarrassment. Gilbert's face
faded to a sallow paleness, and his eyes were fastened upon those of the speaker with a fierce
and dangerous intensity. Mr. Ferris colored, turned away, and called to his hounds.

Fortune was too sharp an observer not to remark the disturbance. He cried out, and his words
produced an instant, general sense of relief:--

"It's been a fine run, friends, and we can't do better than ride back to the Hammer and Trowel,
and take a 'smaller'--or a 'bigger' for that matter--at my expense. You must let me pay my
footing now, for I hope to ride with you many a time to come. Faith! If I don't happen to buy
that place down by the Rising Sun, I'll try to find another, somewhere about New London or
Westgrove, so that we can be nearer neighbors."

With that he grinned, rather than smiled; but although his manner would have struck a cool
observer as being mocking instead of cordial, the invitation was accepted with great show of
satisfaction, and the horsemen fell into pairs, forming a picturesque cavalcade as they passed
under the tall, leafless oaks.

Gilbert Potter speedily recovered his self-possession, but his face was stern and his manner
abstracted. Even the marked and careful kindness of his friends seemed secretly to annoy him,
for it constantly suggested the something by which it had been prompted. Mr. Alfred Barton,
however, whether under the influence of Fortune's friendship, or from a late suspicion of his
duties as host of the day, not unkindly complimented the young man, and insisted on filling
his glass. Gilbert could do no less than courteously accept the attention, but he shortly afterwards
stole away from the noisy company, mounted his horse, and rode slowly towards Kennett Square.

As he thus rides, with his eyes abstractedly fixed before him, we will take the opportunity
to observe him more closely. Slightly under-sized, compactly built, and with strongly-marked
features, his twenty-four years have the effect of thirty. His short jacket and knee-breeches
of gray velveteen cover a chest broad rather than deep, and reveal the fine, narrow loins and
muscular thighs of a frame matured and hardened by labor. His hands, also, are hard and strong,
but not ungraceful in form. His neck, not too short, is firmly planted, and the carriage of
his head indicates patience and energy. Thick, dark hair enframes his square forehead, and
straight, somewhat heavy brows. His eyes of soft dark-gray, are large, clear, and steady, and
only change their expression under strong excitement. His nose is straight and short, his mouth
a little too wide for beauty, and less firm now than it will be ten years hence, when the yearning
tenderness shall have vanished from the corners of the lips; and the chin, in its broad curve,
harmonizes with the square lines of the brow. Evidently a man whose youth has not been a holiday;
who is reticent rather than demonstrative; who will be strong in his loves and long in his
hates; and, without being of a despondent nature, can never become heartily sanguine.

The spring-day was raw and overcast, as it drew towards its close, and the rider's musings
seemed to accord with the change in the sky. His face expressed a singular mixture of impatience,
determined will, and unsatisfied desire. But where most other men would have sighed, or given
way to some involuntary exclamation, he merely set his teeth, and tightened the grasp on his
whip-handle.

He was not destined, however, to a solitary journey. Scarcely had he made three quarters of
a mile, when, on approaching the junction of a wood-road which descended to the highway from
a shallow little glen on the north, the sound of hoofs and voices met his ears. Two female
figures appeared, slowly guiding their horses down the rough road. One, from her closely-fitting
riding-habit of drab cloth, might have been a Quakeress, but for the feather (of the same sober
color) in her beaver hat, and the rosette of dark red ribbon at her throat. The other, in bluish-gray,
with a black beaver and no feather, rode a heavy old horse with a blind halter on his head,
and held the stout leathern reins with a hand covered with a blue woollen mitten. She rode
in advance, paying little heed to her seat, but rather twisting herself out of shape in the
saddle in order to chatter to her companion in the rear.

"Do look where you are going, Sally!" cried the latter as the blinded horse turned aside from
the road to drink at a little brook that oozed forth from under the dead leaves.

Thus appealed to, the other lady whirled around with a half-jump, and caught sight of Gilbert
Potter and of her horse's head at the same instant.

"Whoa there, Bonnie!" she cried. "Why, Gilbert, where did you come from? Hold up your head,
I say! Martha, here's Gilbert, with a brush in his hat! Don't be afraid, you beast; did you
never smell a fox? Here, ride in between, Gilbert, and tell us all about it! No, not on that
side, Martha; you can manage a horse better than I can!"

In her efforts to arrange the order of march, she drove her horse's head into Gilbert's back,
and came near losing her balance. With amused screams, and bursts of laughter, and light, rattling
exclamations, she finally succeeded in placing herself at his left hand, while her adroit and
self-possessed companion quietly rode up to his right Then, dropping the reins on their horses'
necks, the two ladies resigned themselves to conversation, as the three slowly jogged homewards
abreast.

"Now, Gilbert!" exclaimed Miss Sally Fairthorn, after waiting a moment for him to speak; "did
you really earn the brush, or beg it from one of them, on the way home?"

"Begging, you know, is my usual habit," he answered, mockingly.

"I know you're as proud as Lucifer, when you've a mind to be so. There!"

Gilbert was accustomed to the rattling tongue of his left-hand neighbor, and generally returned
her as good as she gave. To-day, however, he was in no mood for repartee. He drew down his
brows and made no answer to her charge.

"Where was the fox earthed?" asked the other lady, after a rapid glance at his face.

Martha Deane's voice was of that quality which compels an answer, and a courteous answer, from
the surliest of mankind. It was not loud, it could scarcely be called musical; but every tone
seemed to exhale freshness as of dew, and brightness as of morning. It was pure, slightly resonant;
and all the accumulated sorrows of life could not have veiled its inherent gladness. It could
never grow harsh, never be worn thin, or sound husky from weariness; its first characteristic
would always be youth, and the joy of youth, though it came from the lips of age.

