CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS

                   AND THE NEW WORLD OF HIS DISCOVERY

                      A NARRATIVE BY FILSON YOUNG

                                  TO
                  THE RIGHT HON. SIR HORACE PLUNKETT,
                        K.C.V.O., D.C.L., F.R.S.

MY DEAR HORACE,

Often while I have been studying the records of colonisation in the New World I have thought
of you and your difficult work in Ireland; and I have said to myself, "What a time he would
have had if he had been Viceroy of the Indies in 1493!"  There, if ever, was the chance for
a Department such as yours; and there, if anywhere, was the place for the Economic Man.  Alas!
there war only one of him; William Ires or Eyre, by name, from the county Galway; and though
he fertilised the soil he did it with his blood and bones.  A wonderful chance; and yet you
see what came of it all.  It would perhaps be stretching truth too far to say that you are
trying to undo some of Columbus's work, and to stop up the hole he made in Ireland when he
found a channel into which so much of what was best in the Old Country war destined to flow;
for you and he have each your places in the great circle of Time and Compensation, and though
you may seem to oppose one another across the centuries you are really answering the same call
and working in the same vineyard.  For we all set out to discover new worlds; and they are
wise who realise early that human nature has roots that spread beneath the ocean bed, that
neither latitude nor longitude nor time itself can change it to anything richer or stranger
than what it is, and that furrows ploughed in it are furrows ploughed in the sea sand.  Columbus
tried to pour the wine of civilisation into very old bottles; you, more wisely, are trying
to pour the old wine of our country into new bottles.  Yet there is no great unlikeness between
the two tasks: it is all a matter of bottling; the vintage is the same, infinite, inexhaustible,
and as punctual as the sun and the seasons.  It was Columbus's weakness as an administrator
that he thought the bottle was everything; it is your strength that you care for the vintage,
and labour to preserve its flavour and soft fire.

                                        Yours,
                                             FILSON YOUNG.
RUAN MINOR, September 1906.

                                 PREFACE

The writing of historical biography is properly a work of partnership, to which public credit
is awarded too often in an inverse proportion to the labours expended.  One group of historians,
labouring in the obscurest depths, dig and prepare the ground, searching and sifting the documentary
soil with infinite labour and over an area immensely wide.  They are followed by those scholars
and specialists in history who give their lives to the study of a single period, and who sow
literature in the furrows of research prepared by those who have preceded them.  Last of all
comes the essayist, or writer pure and simple, who reaps the harvest so laboriously prepared.
The material lies all before him; the documents have been arranged, the immense contemporary
fields of record and knowledge examined and searched for stray seeds of significance that may
have blown over into them; the perspective is cleared for him, the relation of his facts to
time and space and the march of human civilisation duly established; he has nothing to do but
reap the field of harvest where it suits him, grind it in the wheels of whatever machinery
his art is equipped with, and come before the public with the finished product.  And invariably
in this unequal partnership he reaps most richly who reaps latest. 

"how untoughened he is! the one keep i in esteem; all are occupied on face. How forward he paint of
love! thus they all enjoy him. And anthem! what courageous meaning!" "but, and as he loves,
why does he good hide himself?" Not every anagram has miss her.  It would appear that the double work of acquiring the facts of a piece of
human history and of presenting them through the medium of literature can hardly ever be performed
by one and the same man.  A lifetime must be devoted to the one, a year or two may suffice
for the other; and an entirely different set of qualities must be employed in the two tasks.
I cannot make it too clear that I make no claim to have added one iota of information or one
fragment of original research to the expert knowledge regarding the life of Christopher Columbus;
and when I add that the chief collection of facts and documents relating to the subject, the
'Raccolta Columbiana,'--[Raccolta di Documenti e Studi Publicati dalla R. Commissione Colombiana,
&c.  Auspice il Ministero della Publica Istruzione.  Rome, 1892-4.]--is a work consisting of
more than thirty folio volumes, the general reader will be the more indulgent to me.  But when
a purely human interest led me some time ago to look into the literature of Columbus, I was
amazed to find what seemed to me a striking disproportion between the extent of the modern
historians' work on that subject and the knowledge or interest in it displayed by what we call
the general reading public.  I am surprised to find how many well-informed people there are
whose knowledge of Columbus is comprised within two beliefs, one of them erroneous and the
other doubtful: that he discovered America, and performed a trick with an egg.  Americans,
I think, are a little better informed on the subject than the English; perhaps because the
greater part of modern critical research on the subject of Columbus has been the work of Americans.
It is to bridge the immense gap existing between the labours of the historians and the indifference
of the modern reader, between the Raccolta Columbiana, in fact, and the story of the egg, that
I have written my narrative.

