In the Philippines they raise coffee, bananas, sugar, tobacco, and cotton.  One of their most
useful plants is the plant from which they get hemp for making ropes and cords.  This plant
is called "ab'a-ca" by the people in the Philippines, and its hemp is called Manila hemp.

There is a great deal of rice grown in the Philippines.  Rice is the food that most of the
people live on.

There are buffaloes in the Philippines.  The people use them for riding and for carrying loads.
They have also deer, goats, and hogs.

In some parts of the islands they have a strange way of fishing.  They fill baskets with a
kind of mixture in which they put poison.  Then they throw the baskets into the water.  The
fish become stupid after eating the poison.  Very soon they rise to the top of the water, where
the people catch them.

Manila is a large town with strong walls and a deep moat, or ditch, around it.  There are eight
gates in the wall and bridges across the moat.

The men in Manila wear trousers and shirts; but they wear the shirts outside.  The women wear
skirts with long trains, and waists with very full and flowing sleeves.  They wear scarfs or
handkerchiefs around their necks, with two of the corners hanging down their backs.  They never
wear hats.

In a few of the islands there are schools, and the children learn to read and write; but in
many other parts there are neither schools nor churches.  As the islands now belong to the
United States, there will soon be many more schools, and the children will be able to learn
everything that is taught in our schools.

BANGALA

Far away in Africa, near where the pygmies live, there is a great river called the Kongo. 
The land on either side of this river for many miles is called the Kongo Valley.

There are hundreds of miles of great woods in this valley.  These woods are not like our woods.
They are very thick with vines and plants. There are also a great many kinds of trees.

In the woods are birds with very bright colors.  There are birds called sunbirds.  Often green,
yellow, scarlet, and purple feathers are found on these birds.  What a pretty sight it must
be to see them flit about in the sun!

There are also many kinds of pretty flowers in the woods.  These flowers are as gay in color
as the birds.

Many tribes of negroes live in the Kongo Valley.  They live in huts made of mats.  The mats
are made of strong grass.  The grass is first twisted into cords.  Then the cords are braided
into mats.

The people also use mats for their beds; but they do not put the mats on the ground.  They
tie them to a frame raised a little above the ground.

These negroes also make baskets, bowls, pots, and wooden spoons.  The bowls and pots they make
out of clay.

It is very warm all the year round in the Kongo Valley.  So the people wear very little clothing.
They rub their bodies with palm oil.

They have a funny way of wearing their hair.  While they are young their hair is braided. 
Then it is twisted into all sorts of knots and shapes.  They do not untwist it, but keep it
so always.  They think these queer knots and shapes are very pretty.

The women do all the hard work.  They cook the food.  They do the other housework.  They plant
the corn and beans.

The men spend a great deal of time in fishing.  They also hunt and kill elephants to get their
tusks for ivory.  There are many elephants in the Kongo Valley.  They roam about in large herds.
It must be a hard task to kill an elephant!

One of the tribes in the Kongo Valley is called the Bangala tribe.  The men are tall and strong
and fierce.  They are always fighting with other tribes.  This makes the other tribes very
much afraid of them.

The negroes of this tribe have a strange way of making friends with a white man.  They will
do him no harm if he is willing to be their "blood brother."

This is the way they make a white man their blood brother.  The black man takes a limb of palm
tree which has two branches.  With one branch in his hand, he falls on the ground before the
white man.  The white man takes hold of the other branch.  Then the black man splits the limb
into two parts with his knife.

After this is done, an old man of the tribe comes to the white man and the black man.  He puts
the white man's arm over the black man's arm. When their arms are together, he makes a small
cut in each arm.  He makes this cut to draw blood.  Then the old man puts salt and the dust
of banana leaves into the blood, and rubs both arms together.  The black man and the white
man are then blood brothers.

These people have also a strange way of taking care of their canoes. When they are not using
them, they keep them under water.  They say that the canoes will last longer if kept under water.

THE AMAZON VALLEY.

Perhaps you have heard of the Amazon River.  It is the largest river in the world.  It is four
thousand miles long, and more than fifty miles wide where it flows into the sea.  This river
is in Brazil.  Brazil is far south of us.

There are great forests along the banks of this river.  They run back from the river for hundreds
of miles.  They are the largest forests in the world.

A great many kinds of trees grow in these forests.  Some of the trees are very high.  Often
the trees are covered with vines on which beautiful flowers grow.

Wax-palm trees, breadfruit trees, and rubber trees are found in these forests.  Wax is taken
from the leaves of the wax palm.

We make rubber from the rubber tree.  A cut is made in the side of the tree with a knife. 
From this cut a white juice flows.  This juice is like milk.  It is caught in a cup.  After
a while the juice gets hard. Then it is rubber.

A great many strange animals and birds are found in these forests. There is the sloth, which
lives in the trees.  It has hooked claws for holding on to the branches.  It hangs on to a
branch with its back downward.  When it goes to sleep, it rolls itself up like a ball.  It
moves very slowly, and that is why it is called the sloth.

These forests are full of monkeys and parrots.  Perhaps you have seen a parrot.  I dare say
you have not seen more than two or three parrots at one time.  But in these forests there are
flocks of parrots.  They fly from tree to tree, and are very wild.

There are many kinds of them.  Some are red, some are green, some are blue, and some are all
these colors.

Monkeys chatter and parrots screech.  What a noise they must sometimes make!

But besides the parrots and the monkeys, there are humming birds and butterflies.  You know
that the humming bird is a very small bird, but humming birds are found in these forests no
larger than a bee.  The butterflies are the most beautiful in the world.

The people who live in these forests are called Indians.  They do not often let white men come
among them.  Their skin is copper color, like the Indians of our country.  Their hair is black
and straight.  They are not as tall as our Indians, but their bodies are finely formed. They
have large, full chests.  Their hands and feet are small and nicely shaped.

They keep themselves very clean.  The men and women, the boys and girls, are all fond of bathing.
The first thing they do in the morning is to take a bath in the nearest river.

Strange to say, some of them paint their faces and bodies.  They take the juice of a tree which
will stain a blue black.  They pour this juice on their heads, and let it run in streams down
their backs.  They also put red and yellow in large round spots on their cheeks and foreheads.

The men braid their hair, and wear it long, down their backs.  They part their hair and wear
combs.  But the women do not part their hair and do not wear combs.  They pull the hair out
of their eyebrows.  They make holes in their ears.  In these holes they wear, instead of rings,
a little piece of grass with feathers fastened to it.

Their houses are made of logs of wood set in the ground as posts.  They put other logs on top
of these for a roof.  Then they cover these logs with palm leaves.  There are no windows, and
they use mats for doors.

They sleep in hammocks.  These they make of string.  They make the string by twisting the leaves
of a tree.

They have plenty of pans and pots, both large and small.  These pans and pots they make of clay.

First, they soften the clay and knead it.  Then they shape it into pots and pans.  It is then
dried in the sun.  When the pots and pans are dry they are put in a hot fire.  This makes them
hard and strong.

The chief food of these Indians is a kind of flour made from the root of a plant.  They also
eat fish.  A great many fish are found in the rivers.  These they catch and eat.  They also
dry fish and then smoke them over a fire.  The smoked fish keep good a long time.

These Indians sail on the rivers in canoes.  But their canoes are heavy.  They are not light,
as the canoes of our Indians are.  They are not made of birch bark.

These Indians make an entire canoe out of a single tree.  The canoe is made thick so as not
to be broken by knocking against snags and rocks.