Waifs and Strays

by

O Henry

PART I

TWELVE STORIES

CONTENTS

  The Red Roses of Tonia
  Round The Circle
  The Rubber Plant's Story
  Out of Nazareth
  Confessions of a Humorist
  The Sparrows in Madison Square
  Hearts and Hands
  The Cactus
  The Detective Detector
  The Dog and the Playlet
  A Little Talk About Mobs
  The Snow Man

THE RED ROSES OF TONIA

A trestle burned down on the International Railroad.  The south-bound from San Antonio was
cut off for the next forty-eight hours. On that train was Tonia Weaver's Easter hat.

Espirition, the Mexican, who had been sent forty miles in a buckboard from the Espinosa Ranch
to fetch it, returned with a shrugging shoulder and hands empty except for a cigarette.  At
the small station, Nopal, he had learned of the delayed train and, having no commands to wait,
turned his ponies toward the ranch again.

Now, if one supposes that Easter, the Goddess of Spring, cares any more for the after-church
parade on Fifth Avenue than she does for her loyal outfit of subjects that assemble at the
meeting-house at Cactus, Tex., a mistake has been made.  The wives and daughters of the ranchmen
of the Frio country put forth Easter blossoms of new hats and gowns as faithfully as is done
anywhere, and the Southwest is, for one day, a mingling of prickly pear, Paris, and paradise.
And now it was Good Friday, and Tonia Weaver's Easter hat blushed unseen in the desert air
of an impotent express car, beyond the burned trestle.  On Saturday noon the Rogers girls,
from the Shoestring Ranch, and Ella Reeves, from the Anchor-O, and Mrs. Bennet and Ida, from
Green Valley, would convene at the Espinosa and pick up Tonia.  With their Easter hats and
frocks carefully wrapped and bundled against the dust, the fair aggregation would then merrily
jog the ten miles to Cactus, where on the morrow they would array themselves, subjugate man,
do homage to Easter, and cause jealous agitation among the lilies of the field.

Tonia sat on the steps of the Espinosa ranch house flicking gloomily with a quirt at a tuft
of curly mesquite.  She displayed a frown and a contumelious lip, and endeavored to radiate
an aura of disagreeableness and tragedy.

"I hate railroads," she announced positively.  "And men.  Men pretend to run them.  Can you
give any excuse why a trestle should burn?  Ida Bennet's hat is to be trimmed with violets.
I shall not go one step toward Cactus without a new hat.  If I were a man I would get one."

Two men listened uneasily to this disparagement of their kind. One was Wells Pearson, foreman
of the Mucho Calor cattle ranch.  The other was Thompson Burrows, the prosperous sheepman from
the Quintana Valley. Both thought Tonia Weaver adorable, especially when she railed at railroads
and menaced men.  Either would have given up his epidermis to make for her an Easter hat more
cheerfully than the ostrich gives up his tip or the aigrette lays down its life.  Neither possessed
the ingenuity to conceive a means of supplying the sad deficiency against the coming Sabbath.
Pearson's deep brown face and sunburned light hair gave him the appearance of a schoolboy seized
by one of youth's profound and insolvable melancholies.  Tonia's plight grieved him through
and through.  Thompson Burrows was the more skilled and pliable.  He hailed from somewhere
in the East originally; and he wore neckties and shoes, and was made dumb by woman's presence.

"The big water-hole on Sandy Creek," said Pearson, scarcely hoping to make a hit, "was filled
up by that last rain."

"Oh!  Was it?" said Tonia sharply.  "Thank you for the information. I suppose a new hat is
nothing to you, Mr. Pearson.  I suppose you think a woman ought to wear an old Stetson five
years without a change, as you do.  If your old water-hole could have put out the fire on that
trestle you might have some reason to talk about it."

"I am deeply sorry," said Burrows, warned by Pearson's fate, "that you failed to receive your
hat, Miss Weaver--deeply sorry, indeed. If there was anything I could do--"

"Don't bother," interrupted Tonia, with sweet sarcasm.  "If there was anything you could do,
you'd be doing it, of course.  There isn't."

Tonia paused.  A sudden sparkle of hope had come into her eye.  Her frown smoothed away.  She
had an inspiration.

"There's a store over at Lone Elm Crossing on the Nueces," she said, "that keeps hats.  Eva
Rogers got hers there.  She said it was the latest style.  It might have some left.  But it's
twenty-eight miles to Lone Elm."

The spurs of two men who hastily arose jingled; and Tonia almost smiled.  The Knights, then,
were not all turned to dust; nor were their rowels rust.

"Of course," said Tonia, looking thoughtfully at a white gulf cloud sailing across the cerulean
dome, "nobody could ride to Lone Elm and back by the time the girls call by for me to-morrow.
So, I reckon I'll have to stay at home this Easter Sunday."

And then she smiled.

"Well, Miss Tonia," said Pearson, reaching for his hat, as guileful as a sleeping babe.  "I
reckon I'll be trotting along back to Mucho Calor. There's some cutting out to be done on Dry
Branch first thing in the morning; and me and Road Runner has got to be on hand.  It's too
bad your hat got sidetracked.  Maybe they'll get that trestle mended yet in time for Easter."

"I must be riding, too, Miss Tonia," announced Burrows, looking at his watch.  "I declare,
it's nearly five o'clock!  I must be out at my lambing camp in time to help pen those crazy ewes."

Tonia's suitors seemed to have been smitten with a need for haste. They bade her a ceremonious
farewell, and then shook each other's hands with the elaborate and solemn courtesy of the Southwesterner.

"Hope I'll see you again soon, Mr. Pearson," said Burrows.

"Same here," said the cowman, with the serious face of one whose friend goes upon a whaling
voyage.  "Be gratified to see you ride over to Mucho Calor any time you strike that section
of the range."

Pearson mounted Road Runner, the soundest cow-pony on the Frio, and let him pitch for a minute,
as he always did on being mounted, even at the end of a day's travel.

"What kind of a hat was that, Miss Tonia," he called, "that you ordered from San Antone?  I
can't help but be sorry about that hat."

"A straw," said Tonia; "the latest shape, of course; trimmed with red roses.  That's what I
like--red roses."

"There's no color more becoming to your complexion and hair," said Burrows, admiringly.

"It's what I like," said Tonia.  "And of all the flowers, give me red roses.  Keep all the
pinks and blues for yourself.  But what's the use, when trestles burn and leave you without
anything?  It'll be a dry old Easter for me!"

Pearson took off his hat and drove Road Runner at a gallop into the chaparral east of the Espinosa
ranch house.

As his stirrups rattled against the brush Burrows's long-legged sorrel struck out down the
narrow stretch of open prairie to the southwest.

Tonia hung up her quirt and went into the sitting-room.

"I'm mighty sorry, daughter, that you didn't get your hat," said her mother.

"Oh, don't worry, mother," said Tonia, coolly.  "I'll have a new hat, all right, in time to-morrow."

When Burrows reached the end of the strip of prairie he pulled his sorrel to the right and
let him pick his way daintily across a sacuista flat through which ran the ragged, dry bed
of an arroyo. Then up a gravelly hill, matted with bush, the hoarse scrambled, and at length
emerged, with a snort of satisfaction into a stretch of high, level prairie, grassy and dotted
with the lighter green of mesquites in their fresh spring foliage.  Always to the right Burrows
bore, until in a little while he struck the old Indian trail that followed the Nueces southward,
and that passed, twenty-eight miles to the southeast, through Lone Elm.

Here Burrows urged the sorrel into a steady lope.  As he settled himself in the saddle for
a long ride he heard the drumming of hoofs, the hollow "thwack" of chaparral against wooden
stirrups, the whoop of a  Comanche; and Wells Pearson burst out of the brush at the right of
the trail like a precocious yellow chick from a dark green Easter egg.

Except in the presence of awing femininity melancholy found no place in Pearson's bosom.  In
Tonia's presence his voice was as soft as a summer bullfrog's in his reedy nest.  Now, at his
gleesome yawp, rabbits, a mile away, ducked their ears, and sensitive plants closed their fearful
fronds.

"Moved your lambing camp pretty far from the ranch, haven't you, neighbor?" asked Pearson,
as Road Runner fell in at the sorrel's side.

"Twenty-eight miles," said Burrows, looking a little grim.  Pearson's laugh woke an owl one
hour too early in his water-elm on the river bank, half a mile away.

"All right for you, sheepman.  I like an open game, myself.  We're two locoed he-milliners
hat-hunting in the wilderness.  I notify you. Burr, to mind your corrals.  We've got an even
start, and the one that gets the headgear will stand some higher at the Espinosa."

"You've got a good pony," said Burrows, eyeing Road Runner's barrel-like body and tapering
legs that moved as regularly as the pistonrod of an engine.  "It's a race, of course; but you're
too much of a horseman to whoop it up this soon.  Say we travel together till we get to the
home stretch."

"I'm your company," agreed Pearson, "and I admire your sense.  If there's hats at Lone Elm,
one of 'em shall set on Miss Tonia's brow to-morrow, and you won't be at the crowning.  I ain't
bragging, Burr, but that sorrel of yours is weak in the fore-legs."

"My horse against yours," offered Burrows, "that Miss Tonia wears the hat I take her to Cactus
to-morrow."

"I'll take you up," shouted Pearson.  "But oh, it's just like horse-stealing for me!  I can
use that sorrel for a lady's animal when--when somebody comes over to Mucho Calor, and--"

Burrows' dark face glowered so suddenly that the cowman broke off his sentence.  But Pearson
could never feel any pressure for long.

"What's all this Easter business about, Burr?" he asked, cheerfully. "Why do the women folks
have to have new hats by the almanac or bust all cinches trying to get 'em?"

"It's a seasonable statute out of the testaments," explained Burrows. "It's ordered by the
Pope or somebody.  And it has something to do with the Zodiac I don't know exactly, but I think
it was invented by the Egyptians."

"It's an all-right jubilee if the heathens did put their brand on it," said Pearson; "or else
Tonia wouldn't have anything to do with it.  And they pull it off at church, too.  Suppose
there ain't but one hat in the Lone Elm store, Burr!"

"Then," said Burrows, darkly, "the best man of us'll take it back to the Espinosa."

"Oh, man!" cried Pearson, throwing his hat high and catching it again, "there's nothing like
you come off the sheep ranges before. You talk good and collateral to the occasion.  And if
there's more than one?"

"Then," said Burrows, "we'll pick our choice and one of us'll get back first with his and the
other won't."

"There never was two souls," proclaimed Pearson to the stars, "that beat more like one heart
than yourn and mine.  Me and you might be riding on a unicorn and thinking out of the same
piece of mind."

At a little past midnight the riders loped into Lone Elm. The half a hundred houses of the
big village were dark.  On its only street the big wooden store stood barred and shuttered.

In a few moments the horses were fastened and Pearson was pounding cheerfully on the door of
old Sutton, the storekeeper.

The barrel of a Winchester came through a cranny of a solid window shutter followed by a short
inquiry.

"Wells Pearson, of the Mucho Calor, and Burrows, of Green Valley," was the response.  "We want
to buy some goods in the store.  Sorry to wake you up but we must have 'em.  Come on out, Uncle
Tommy, and get a move on you."

Uncle Tommy was slow, but at length they got him behind his counter with a kerosene lamp lit,
and told him of their dire need.

"Easter hats?" said Uncle Tommy, sleepily.  "Why, yes, I believe I have got just a couple left.
I only ordered a dozen this spring. I'll show 'em to you."

Now, Uncle Tommy Sutton was a merchant, half asleep or awake.  In dusty pasteboard boxes under
the counter he had two left-over spring hats. But, alas! for his commercial probity on that
early Saturday morn--they were hats of two springs ago, and a woman's eye would have detected
the fraud at half a glance.  But to the unintelligent gaze of the cowpuncher and the sheepman
they seemed fresh from the mint of contemporaneous April.

The hats were of a variety once known as "cart-wheels."  They were of stiff straw, colored
red, and flat brimmed.  Both were exactly alike, and trimmed lavishly around their crowns with
full blown, immaculate, artificial white roses.

"That all you got, Uncle Tommy?" said Pearson.  "All right. Not much choice here, Burr.  Take
your pick."

"They're the latest styles" lied Uncle Tommy.  "You'd see 'em on Fifth Avenue, if you was in
New York."

Uncle Tommy wrapped and tied each hat in two yards of dark calico for a protection.  One Pearson
tied carefully to his calfskin saddle-thongs; and the other became part of Road Runner's burden.
They shouted thanks and farewells to Uncle Tommy, and cantered back into the night on the home
stretch.

The horsemen jockeyed with all their skill.  They rode more slowly on their way back.  The
few words they spoke were not unfriendly. Burrows had a Winchester under his left leg slung
over his saddle horn. Pearson had a six shooter belted around him.  Thus men rode in the Frio
country.

At half-past seven in the morning they rode to the top of a hill and saw the Espinosa Ranch,
a white spot under a dark patch of live-oaks, five miles away.

The sight roused Pearson from his drooping pose in the saddle. He knew what Road Runner could
do.  The sorrel was lathered, and stumbling frequently; Road Runner was pegging away like a
donkey engine.

Pearson turned toward the sheepman and laughed.  "Good-bye, Burr," he cried, with a wave of
his hand.  "It's a race now.  We're on the home stretch."

He pressed Road Runner with his knees and leaned toward the Espinosa. Road Runner struck into
a gallop, with tossing head and snorting nostrils, as if he were fresh from a month in pasture. Nor do I know him myself but by mere inference. I I asked her
to dance for a chance to insult and avenge a wrong which meant someone had done for my sake.

-
Who did the wrong?

- Did not say. Only he shouted that I was to blame for it to look separate from his wife.

- He must be mad or drunk.

- Drunk nay, rather crazy. It was scary. He also told me that I saw when I was crawling, that
knew who was my mother and I knew my father as his hands.

- Mal
could meet your parents, Leonardo noted sententious air, even though
you daughter of the Cradle.

Nonsense!

- Ah!

Listen, said Cecilia recalls, said his wife was the one who raised me, that I was mulatto and
my mother lived and was crazy.

- Did not found out what it was called the devil in black?

- Yes, it was revealed at last. The officer recognized the tailoring of Uribe. He called by
name Dionisio Gamboa, although he claimed not to be called that, but Dionisio Jaruco.

- Ah! Dog! Leonardo said, clenching his fists while the teeth. What good Novena deserve! It
will take, as there is a God in heaven, as you capture. A good Tonda already on his trail. There is
no such Dionisio Jaruco or pumpkin.

His name itself is Dionysus but his name must be Gamboa, because it belongs to mom. The most unworthy,
ungrateful, infamous theft of Dad's old clothes added the flight and left my mother without
a cook. A black no you have agreed to house more shameless than him. And see the result. The
pay. Is hidden under seven ground states, hence it will draw. Be punished and deserves, I swear.
I think skin him alive if you should not pay.

Then dare to insult you ...!

Carried away by anger, took some time to understand that Leonardo was scared Cecilia with such unwelcome
threats, as well as themselves ridiculous in their eyes, as it warned without effort the wrath
of her lover against the black no offense came from both her inferred
as having left the family without a cook.

Retracing his steps, but Later, the boy said:

- But all these, what have you had to do with the separation of Dionysius
of his wife?

Nothing, absolutely nothing.

I doubt you were born when mom licked Mary Rule, women Dionysus, as outrageous and lawless in
La Tinaja.

And if you were born, How could raising you? She really raised my sister Adela. Come on, is a folly,
a mistake hers, a pretext to vent you could not return the insult.

- To do this, Cecilia said with satisfaction, that cost him dearly
mess with me.

At the exit Dancing José Dolores waited at the corner of Broad Street.

They fought with knives and black fell at the first shots ...

- Dead?

Leonardo said, not expecting such a conclusion.

- I think not.

The fell on the floor complaining much.

Does it hurt to you that he had been punished as soon as needed?

-
No, no, Gamboa was quick to correct the lack of gallantry which had
committed manifest feeling for the wound of his slave.

It does not hurt to lose a black.

We have many. Feel yes you've been through. It was a scandal.

You complicated in a murder!

More talking another thing, what your grandmother doctor attended
in his illness?

- Montes de Oca.

- How did he come to heal?

- I
went for it.

- Did you know?

- In view.

- Do you know your grandmother?

-
She does.

Mother went to see him at his house and he came to see her every
month.

- To cure?

- No. Mammy had almost never been sick a doctor.

-
What were brought dares or take them?

- Mother received an allowance
through the Montes de Oca.

- An allowance!

Now I remember that long ago took Montes de Oca Dad rent Rule same
Mary, the wife of a cook, to raise a child, the illegitimate daughter
of a friend yours.

And here deciphered why the mistake of Dionysus. Sure, it figured so you're the girl. Of course,
you were not, but who takes the very beast of the error? Neither had been born then. For you see,
after that María Adela Rule raised by about two years. What I can tell you is that the raising
cost him much distress to mother. Montes de Oca agreed to pay two ounces of gold to dad for
the rental price of Mary Rule. I suspect never served because he is a bad payer. Hallo, therefore,
strange, incomprehensible, Montes de Oca you pass an allowance Vds. Do you not know its origin?

-
I do not understand, "replied Cecilia doubtful.

- I mean, "said Leonardo, if you know the reason, reason, or whatever,
the why he spent the counter to your grandmother.

- I do not know,
or rather, since I have not ever find out.

- You know and do not
want to tell me.

I read in your eyes.

- Mal reader you then.

- I deny standing tiptoe Montes de Oca passed the counter on their
own.

- I also deny.

- Ah!

See? You know and I negabas.

- Vd.

I asked that. You asked me if I knew the origin or reason for the
allowance, and I'm still fasting.

All I know is that Montes de Oca was spent on behalf of a friend
...

- That you know.

No? Leonardo interrupted.

- In sight, said Cecilia half.

Your name.

- Ay! That is left for the curious reader.

- Say it, say, he urged the young man taking his hand.

Not want to know out of curiosity, but for something that'll tell
you later.

- Vd. known as their hands.

- Who, then?

- His father
you

- My father!

Leonardo said amazed at the revelation.

Is it possible that my father carried pertinacity ....!

(He caught himself and added then:) Are you sure?

- Surefire.

- How long have you known him?

- Ugh! Since I was little.

- How do you know?

- You saw it on the streets. Each time he stumbled. When I least expected it overhead. He would
brave and told me many things: he was made a Mataperros, lost, badly
brought up, and was going to make me catch on the soldiers.

- Did
you know his name then?

- No, not know until much later when I had
become a woman.

Me has not been his friendship with another mommy.

From Corpus to San Juan, used to talk through the window, always me.

- What's it say?

- Not good indeed. He said, for example, that I celled from you, do not let me go to dance with
you, that you were very much in love, that sooner or later you would leave me on the other; in short,
that you had to marry a rich girl and only waiting to be received Bachelor of Laws.

- I'm surprised to hear that from my father.

Not believe it if someone else tell me. What object really takes
you in it?

His conduct away the idea you love. Not in love from you, no. Nor was he a man of love to go
gay. Now I'm disappointed ...

- Is that mommy was also opposed to our relationship. At the time of his death sent me that you
did not want to

- You think not obey, is not it?

"Said the young man passionately.

- It's too late, "Cecilia answered blushing. (Then he added quietly:) God forbid I even disobeying
mommy.

- Never weigh you down, "said Gamboa heat, I swear by the most sacred,
dear me well.

I, meanwhile, that none of what you have said explains the mess of
the counter.

Why Why, a saint of what my father passed it to your grandmother?

I see what you encalabrinar and despair. You may not continue pasándotela you ...

- That I think, quite affected Cecilia said.

- That's not the worst, added the young thinking, but the doctor will charge a cure the patient.
Everyone does a dead wood.

- For that part I am quiet. Throughout the mummy disease, instead of asking me was the doctor gave
me money for expenses.

- How much you gave?

- How to fifteen ounces of gold. I took no account ... José Dolores.

- Dale with José Dolores. There would again hear his name in your mouth.

- What do you have?

Interrumpiose maybe the lengthy dialogue of the lovers by the arrival
of Nemesia with biggest upset of the three.

Cecilia, because it was submerged in the sea of ​​confusion about
their fate, do had thrown the sudden death of his grandmother.

In disgust Leonardo, because after I found out about Cecilia's position
in that house, realized that he must remove it as soon as possible
or risk losing them forever, and there was no had time to settle with
their agreement the new plan of life.

For its part Nemesia also experienced a lively distaste for without further argument or evidence
the presence there of the dreaded rival of his brother, when he believed
more distant and forgotten Cecilia, he was convinced that no jealousy
in it, nor the absence in it, had acted the miracle of trocar into
hatred, even indifference, the deep affection he professed both.

Poor José Dolores! Nemesia cried together. Of leak.

Fool us flattered that we were hoping he would stay on the mountain!

- It is God's son, who should not be yours Celia, Nemesia said with great feeling, to brother
when he returned from the tailor.

- What covers you give me bad
news, he asked his brother alarmed.

- I founded that he has returned.

The cap on this morning as two inseparable.

- Where?

- In this room. All alone ...

- Then he went to the field to get married.

- Marry! Maybe she has married and now goes back to the beloved.

- What! Do you think you are out of here soon?

- At least ... To put home.

- At least not said Jose Dolores irritated
at best.

- No. If intended for dear, the sooner the better leads,
because I first left spitting in the face to play the role of cover.

     Not the man to pass me the weed and
      laugh me. Do not stand in my way.
      Where is she?

         

- Dressing in there. That is what we expected tonight.

- Maybe. So be good to me stand aside for now. A tragedy would cause more Despite her than
him.

- Still not all is lost, Jose Dolores, Nemesia said thoughtfully. While life lasts, there is
hope.

- What hope, sister? Either he or me. The two together do not fit. Can I resign I serve not cover?
I think not, Nene.

- Nonsense, José Dolores Wolf even a hair. Who can truly say that is the first in the heart of
a woman? Naiden. Please be known that she is not firm or law. He says one thing now and then
another. It doubles as star apple leaf: català red, Catalan white. If you had heard of when
he went to the mountain behind the white girl ... would know who she is .-- quedré not in my
life! He will never see my face. Although I kneel, though I kiss your feet, do not forgive
him that made me. Do not laugh at me nor the sun of men. Hastily,
him did not end for me.

There are many, I was not needed. How many, how many boys as good
as he would not be saints, with a stone in his chest such that I want?

I will not be of those who remain on the shelf or caring nephews. I swear the first thing I
say hi, tell já. And we'll see who loses most, if he or me.

CHAPTER V

Which excuse the rod, like bad his son, and he who loves him, with corrects many rods.

Proverbs, XIV, v. 24

Had unexpectedly reached the moment to plan the plan devised by Don Candido before his departure
to the field.

Signaled the death of Cecilia Josefa had thrown into the arms of Leonardo, which he knew his father
was not as simple nor as virtuous missed an opportunity that presented itself taking by mistress,
pretending to protect.

Don Candido this event looked almost like a catastrophe, whose only means of avoiding, where
concept was to remove the light Cecilia and Leonardo trade, even for achieve necessary use of
force. But I thought that maybe I could run the same thing without noise or liability as it would
give a legal appearance. Moved by this idea happy, decided to counsel with the attorney and Mayor Don
Fernando O'Reilly, a friend and classmate Leonardo, with whom he was quite friendly.

While walking in the street address of the Uffizi, mentally composing
a speech regular form of dialogue to make their case in the best and
most plausible light, before Mr. Mayor.

It happened, however, that in the presence of His Lordship were you
mind the species, which frightened the pigeon pigeons, and only managed
to say that: - Valdes coaxed his son Leonardo, seduced him with her
wiles, and not let him go law school and wanted to know what remedy
could bring justice to a scandal.

Oyola the mayor with a smile of satisfaction and marked condescension, and said:

- How happy I am, Don Candido, to hear him! I am delighted, surprised! Did not have my attention
and please, if from that preside in this court of justice, sovereign
disposition, has more than one year, the first thing you are complaining
about him in like that?

Not that occur in Havana similar cases, no; occur thousands, is that these are the ignorance
and relaxation of morals, which only attacks are criminal offenses against life and property,
those that are still immediate harm to the person or neighbor's goods.

The attacks on morality, honesty, morality, to religion, these are
not crimes, are mere misdemeanors, venial sins, lapses that have no
penalty specified in any written code.

What a mistake, Don Candido!

What confusion of ideas about what is good and what is bad, what
is honest and what is dishonest, which is permissible and what is
forbidden, which is laudable and what is reprehensible!

'Saco, in his Report on Vagrancy, just to reward the Patriotic Society, attributes the game,
he calls our idle men den, the corruption school youth the tomb of the family fortunes, the
source of most evil of crimes that plague the society in which we live.

"I differ with so authorized opinion, and I think it recognizes two main causes evils we all
complain, namely: ignorance and government policy Vives. No schools. And what are the results? The
frequent robberies in daylight, murder without cause or provocation,
endless litigation, the glaring injustice, prostitution of women,
social disorder.

Government policy Vives also cause corruption term or by mistake
without parallel in the world.

Prisoners rot in jail and not punishes the big offenders.

Nor is ascertained only rarely the source of crimes more egregious, because if you catch any
wrongdoers. Who has killed Tonda?

- What! Don Candido said, interrupting the Mayor. Have Tonda dead?

- Yesterday afternoon I opened the belly with a knife.

- Do you have
VS [57] the details of the unfortunate event?

- No, sir.

Last night he told me the news in the theater, out of court.

It says only that the killer was a black fugitive who tried to arrest him.

- I have reason to suspect that the murderer was my cook.

I ordered last days Tonda woman to capture ...

- There would be nothing strange, "continued the Mayor. If you turn on, if doubtful these times,
I take the liberty to give you some advice: give the slave the noxa ...

- What's what Don Fernando?

- A la noxa, I say.

- We are. But who is this lady?

- Natural is not what you know, since he has not studied law.

It is understood in the right hand the slave to the noxa, the act
of renunciation of direct control over it is the master for the court
that tried for the crime committed or damage.

You lost, of So a black man as more and much better in a good sale 500 pesos, but saves you
the costs and the costs of prosecution, which usually ride twice that sum, if the master is part
of the trial.

It is known that failure will spread the hand to the headman court,
raises a summary black against the defendant.

Then you need to do the same with the clerk to attest, with the official of causes that sometimes
provides its own pace, with the prosecutor accuses and not work for
nothing with the judge, counsel, and so forth.

- Suits me, Don Fernando?

Not in my days. It would be better hanging from a lamppost.

- Makes you well ... But back to the claim ... You said you?

- Said, Mr. Mayor, Don Candido said that if from a dream, a girl brings
Leonardo crazy my son, he seduces and enchants with his craft and
not let him finish his studies lawyer ...

- We split, O'Reilly said
calmly.

What do you call the seductive?

- Cecilia Valdés, the complainant replied shyly.

- Well. What breed of woman is that?

- I do not understand.

- I mean, young or middle aged?

"Married or single? "Pretty or ugly? "White or color? All this is to force us to know prior
to the graduation of both fault and the penalty that justice will fit.

- VS I will say, Mr. Mayor, with loyalty as I know in particular, Gamboa said hesitantly and
with his ears burning with embarrassment. The girl is young, quite young, barely will have 18 years
of age. It has not been married, nor, as I understand it, can be described of ugly, rather
pretty, real girl, I'd say. Is poor, yes, poor, poor, and color pass for white but wherever you
do not know their history ...

- Okay, well, "said the mayor thought. It is known to you aware of
case.

I so love. And we judge with full knowledge ... It only happens a vacuum, call it questions,
namely: you know the facts stated, by itself or by reference to third person?

- Some I know for myself, others say, by inference.

- Understand each other. First, tell you if you know who lives with her.

- Now, suppose that a friend of hers.

- None of assumptions, Don
Candido.

Do you know of you? Yes or no?

- No, sir, I know, I infer.

- I like that. In this kind of openness is business first. The lawyer and the judge must speak as
he spoke to his confessor, his heart in his hand. And soon, with whom Pardito lived?

- With the grandmother.

- Are your parents living? Do you have relatives, close friends, protectors in short, someone
to do for it? Being so pretty, like you said, it is good to know all that, find out in time.

-
Little has killed the grandmother.

The mother (added stammering and redder than ever), the mother ... Really do not know at this
time if he lives or dies. Anyway, it would be worth nothing he lived. As the father ... she
would not have known ... She is the daughter of the Royal Creche. Is VS?

- Okay. Did you know you person's grandmother?

- Yes, sir, I met her, but never had intimate relationship with her. Would refer over and alien
this place go into detail. I know, however, that women of color (it was brown) led an exemplary
life, who practiced virtue, who confessed and received Holy Communion
often who raised her granddaughter in the fear of God, who was watching
closely, and especially not spoiled her frolic, or processions lads
flirted with window.

- Then the girl in question is well-bred, honest
living and has not yet say.

- That is true, only that as a hybrid
race, do not much trust in her virtue. Is mulatto and we know that
the daughter of cat kills mice, and that goats do jumps, jump the
breast.

- Well said. We confess that our sayings contain large pool
of wisdom. Confess also that our mulatto, generally speaking, are
fragile by nature and desire, innate in human creatures, to promote
or improve the condition. And here's the key to decipher the reason
for his fondness for white and his disdain for the men of his own
race. A well I talk to someone who should understand me. Nobody like
you, for his long residence in the country, has already aplatanado,
have had better opportunities to observe the idiosyncrasies of our
free color class. But a general rule, a strong presumption theory,
however plausible it may seem bright on the nature thereof or hobbies
or these other people, is not done, do not report crime, even quasi-crime,
which is what Penan laws and judge and punish the courts.

"Let's
summarize. You appear before me, the Mayor, on complaint against whom
he accuses Valdés You quasi crime of seduction and distraction inflicted
on his eldest son from you, which is even under parental authority.
Therefore asks you throw a warrant of arrest against seductive, and,
without hearing, it is punished by depriving them of their freedom.
Okay. Up here no apparent irregularity, the complaint is well founded
in law and you will have excellent not to consent to a hussy astray,
and pervert his son, much more when you follow a career so honorable
and noble as that of the toga. I applaud the vigilance and severity
of principles that you maintained.

- VS confuses me, "said Don Candido,
happy with the lap, apparently took his claim. I do not deserve such
praise. Ca! I do not deserve for a hundred leagues.

- But (seriously
continued the Mayor) as a judge right and conscience, I claim the
evidence crime, I hope that the actor make good the charge, interrogated
for background and consequences of the defendant, and far from causing
a summary conviction, I get the brightest acquittal statement. Let
me you, Don Candido, to tell you frankly that the I characterized
it yourself, no doubt led the innate love of truth and justice, pay
the defendant's conduct, enforce praise of his character, and vindicates
all complaint or ill fame; atándome hands, of course, to proceed in
justice.

Don Candido overwhelmed by the unexpected departure of the
judge, for a long period not he managed to say a word, just squeezed
his fingers and nodded. Then he said aloud timid and confused:

-
For my mother, Mr. Mayor, that I never thought the thing was so serious.
Go if it is! Well I was not fooled! Medium to medium. And there was
only supposed to come but and kissing. Or is that VS does not matter
where it takes more burning, as if it were, to end spear? Not sure,
I think nothing else, Don Fernando.

- While there is always a serious
thing (the mayor said with his usual equanimity), throwing warrant
of arrest against any individual who is suspected of having committed
only one crime is not what stops me in this case, I stopped that yourself
with his frank statement, I removed the handle that could dip to proceed
with the appearances of legality.  Those are my tears,
and it was thinking of you that made them fall."

"The dear old magnolias!" says the young man, pinching one of my leaves.  "I love them all."

Magnolia!  Well, wouldn't that--say! those innocents thought I was a magnolia!  What the--well,
wasn't that tough on a genuine little old New York rubber plant?

OUT OF NAZARETH

Okochee, in Georgia, had a boom, and J. Pinkney Bloom came out of it with a "wad."  Okochee
came out of it with a half-million-dollar debt, a two and a half per cent. city property tax,
and a city council that showed a propensity for traveling the back streets of the town.  These
things came about through a fatal resemblance of the river Cooloosa to the Hudson, as set forth
and expounded by a Northern tourist.  Okochee felt that New York should not be allowed to consider
itself the only alligator in the swamp, so to speak.  And then that harmless, but persistent,
individual so numerous in the South--the man who is always clamoring for more cotton mills,
and is ready to take a dollar's worth of stock, provided he can borrow the dollar--that man
added his deadly work to the tourist's innocent praise, and Okochee fell.

The Cooloosa River winds through a range of small mountains, passes Okochee and then blends
its waters trippingly, as fall the mellifluous Indian syllables, with the Chattahoochee.

Okochee rose, as it were, from its sunny seat on the post-office stoop, hitched up its suspender,
and threw a granite dam two hundred and forty feet long and sixty feet high across the Cooloosa
one mile above the town.  Thereupon, a dimpling, sparkling lake backed up twenty miles among
the little mountains.  Thus in the great game of municipal rivalry did Okochee match that famous
drawing card, the Hudson.  It was conceded that nowhere could the Palisades be judged superior
in the way of scenery and grandeur.  Following the picture card was played the ace of commercial
importance.  Fourteen thousand horsepower would this dam furnish.  Cotton mills, factories,
and manufacturing plants would rise up as the green corn after a shower. The spindle and the
flywheel and turbine would sing the shrewd glory of Okochee.  Along the picturesque heights
above the lake would rise in beauty the costly villas and the splendid summer residences of
capital.  The naphtha launch of the millionaire would spit among the romantic coves; the verdured
hills would take formal shapes of terrace, lawn, and park.  Money would be spent like water
in Okochee, and water would be turned into money.

The fate of the good town is quickly told.  Capital decided not to invest.  Of all the great
things promised, the scenery alone came to fulfilment.  The wooded peaks, the impressive promontories
of solemn granite, the beautiful green slants of bank and ravine did all they could to reconcile
Okochee to the delinquency of miserly gold.  The sunsets gilded the dreamy draws and coves
with a minting that should charm away heart-burning.  Okochee, true to the instinct of its
blood and clime, was lulled by the spell.  It climbed out of the arena, loosed its suspender,
sat down again on the post-office stoop, and took a chew.  It consoled itself by drawling sarcasms
at the city council which was not to blame, causing the fathers, as has been said, to seek
back streets and figure perspiringly on the sinking fund and the appropriation for interest due.

The youth of Okochee--they who were to carry into the rosy future the burden of the debt--accepted
failure with youth's uncalculating joy. For, here was sport, aquatic and nautical, added to
the meagre round of life's pleasures.  In yachting caps and flowing neckties they pervaded
the lake to its limits.  Girls wore silk waists embroidered with anchors in blue and pink.
The trousers of the young men widened at the bottom, and their hands were proudly calloused
by the oft-plied oar. Fishermen were under the spell of a deep and tolerant joy.  Sailboats
and rowboats furrowed the lenient waves, popcorn and ice-cream booths sprang up about the little
wooden pier.  Two small excursion steamboats were built, and plied the delectable waters. Okochee
philosophically gave up the hope of eating turtle soup with a gold spoon, and settled back,
not ill content, to its regular diet of lotus and fried hominy. And out of this slow wreck
of great expectations rose up J. Pinkney Bloom with his "wad" and his prosperous, cheery smile.

Needless to say J. Pinkney was no product of Georgia soil.  He came out of that flushed and
capable region known as the "North."  He called himself a "promoter"; his enemies had spoken
of him as a "grafter"; Okochee took a middle course, and held him to be no better nor no worse
than a "Yank."

Far up the lake--eighteen miles above the town--the eye of this cheerful camp-follower of booms
had spied out a graft.  He purchased there a precipitous tract of five hundred acres at forty-five
cents per acre; and this he laid out and subdivided as the city of Skyland--the Queen City
of the Switzerland of the South.  Streets and avenues were surveyed; parks designed; corners
of central squares reserved for the "proposed" opera house, board of trade, lyceum, market,
public schools, and "Exposition Hall."  The price of lots ranged from five to five hundred
dollars.  Positively, no lot would be priced higher than five hundred dollars.

While the boom was growing in Okochee, J. Pinkney's circulars, maps, and prospectuses were
flying through the mails to every part of the country.  Investors sent in their money by post,
and the Skyland Real Estate Company (J. Pinkney Bloom) returned to each a deed, duly placed
on record, to the best lot, at the price, on hand that day. All this time the catamount screeched
upon the reserved lot of the Skyland Board of Trade, the opossum swung by his tail over the
site of the exposition hall, and the owl hooted a melancholy recitative to his audience of
young squirrels in opera house square.  Later, when the money was coming in fast, J. Pinkney
caused to be erected in the coming city half a dozen cheap box houses, and persuaded a contingent
of indigent natives to occupy them, thereby assuming the role of "population" in subsequent
prospectuses, which became, accordingly, more seductive and remunerative.

So, when the dream faded and Okochee dropped back to digging bait and nursing its two and a
half per cent. tax, J. Pinkney Bloom (unloving of checks and drafts and the cold interrogatories
of bankers) strapped about his fifty-two-inch waist a soft leather belt containing eight thousand
dollars in big bills, and said that all was very good.

One last trip he was making to Skyland before departing to other salad fields.  Skyland was
a regular post-office, and the steamboat, Dixie Belle, under contract, delivered the mail bag
(generally empty) twice a week.  There was a little business there to be settled--the postmaster
was to be paid off for his light but lonely services, and the "inhabitants" had to be furnished
with another month's homely rations, as per agreement.  And then Skyland would know J. Pinkney
Bloom no more.  The owners of these precipitous, barren, useless lots might come and view the
scene of their invested credulity, or they might leave them to their fit tenants, the wild
hog and the browsing deer.  The work of the Skyland Real Estate Company was finished.

The little steamboat Dixie Belle was about to shove off on her regular up-the-lake trip, when
a rickety hired carriage rattled up to the pier, and a tall, elderly gentleman, in black, stepped
out, signaling courteously but vivaciously for the boat to wait.  Time was of the least importance
in the schedule of the Dixie Belle; Captain MacFarland gave the order, and the boat received
its ultimate two passengers.  For, upon the arm of the tall, elderly gentleman, as he crossed
the gangway, was a little elderly lady, with a gray curl depending quaintly forward of her
left ear.

Captain MacFarland was at the wheel; therefore it seemed to J. Pinkney Bloom, who was the only
other passenger, that it should be his to play the part of host to the boat's new guests, who
were, doubtless, on a scenery-viewing expedition.  He stepped forward, with that translucent,
child-candid smile upon his fresh, pink countenance, with that air of unaffected sincerity
that was redeemed from bluffness only by its exquisite calculation, with that promptitude and
masterly decision of manner that so well suited his calling--with all his stock in trade well
to the front; he stepped forward to receive Colonel and Mrs. Peyton Blaylock.  With the grace
of a grand marshal or a wedding usher, he escorted the two passengers to a side of the upper
deck, from which the scenery was supposed to present itself to the observer in increased quantity
and quality.  There, in comfortable steamer chairs, they sat and began to piece together the
random lines that were to form an intelligent paragraph in the big history of little events.

"Our home, sir," said Colonel Blaylock, removing his wide-brimmed, rather shapeless black felt
hat, "is in Holly Springs--Holly Springs, Georgia.  I am very proud to make your acquaintance,
Mr. Bloom. Mrs. Blaylock and myself have just arrived in Okochee this morning, sir, on business--business
of importance in connection with the recent rapid march of progress in this section of our state."

The Colonel smoothed back, with a sweeping gesture, his long, smooth, locks.  His dark eyes,
still fiery under the heavy black brows, seemed inappropriate to the face of a business man.
He looked rather to be an old courtier handed down from the reign of Charles, and re-attired
in a modern suit of fine, but raveling and seam-worn, broadcloth.

"Yes, sir," said Mr. Bloom, in his heartiest prospectus voice, "things have been whizzing around
Okochee.  Biggest industrial revival and waking up to natural resources Georgia ever had. 
Did you happen to squeeze in on the ground floor in any of the gilt-edged grafts, Colonel?"

"Well, sir," said the Colonel, hesitating in courteous doubt, "if I understand your question,
I may say that I took the opportunity to make an investment that I believe will prove quite
advantageous--yes, sir, I believe it will result in both pecuniary profit and agreeable occupation."

"Colonel Blaylock," said the little elderly lady, shaking her gray curl and smiling indulgent
explanation at J. Pinkney Bloom, "is so devoted to businesss.  He has such a talent for financiering
and markets and investments and those kind of things.  I think myself extremely fortunate in
having secured him for a partner on life's journey--I am so unversed in those formidable but
very useful branches of learning."

Colonel Blaylock rose and made a bow--a bow that belonged with silk stockings and lace ruffles
and velvet.

"Practical affairs," he said, with a wave of his hand toward the promoter, "are, if I may use
the comparison, the garden walks upon which we tread through life, viewing upon either side
of us the flowers which brighten that journey.   It is my pleasure to be able to lay out a
walk or two.  Mrs. Blaylock, sir, is one of those fortunate higher spirits whose mission it
is to make the flowers grow. Perhaps, Mr. Bloom, you have perused the lines of Lorella, the
Southern poetess. That is the name above which Mrs. Blaylock has contributed to the press of
the South for many years."

"Unfortunately," said Mr. Bloom, with a sense of the loss clearly written upon his frank face,
"I'm like the Colonel--in the walk-making business myself--and I haven't had time to even take
a sniff at the flowers.  Poetry is a line I never dealt in.  It must be nice, though--quite nice."

"It is the region," smiled Mrs. Blaylock, "in which my soul dwells. My shawl, Peyton, if you
please--the breeze comes a little chilly from yon verdured hills."

The Colonel drew from the tail pocket of his coat a small shawl of knitted silk and laid it
solicitously about the shoulders of the lady. Mrs. Blaylock sighed contentedly, and turned
her expressive eyes--still as clear and unworldly as a child's--upon the steep slopes that
were slowly slipping past.  Very fair and stately they looked in the clear morning air.  They
seemed to speak in familiar terms to the responsive spirit of Lorella.  "My native hills!"
she murmured, dreamily.  "See how the foliage drinks the sunlight from the hollows and dells."

"Mrs. Blaylock's maiden days," said the Colonel, interpreting her mood to J. Pinkney Bloom,
"were spent among the mountains of northern Georgia.  Mountain air and mountain scenery recall
to her those days. Holly Springs, where we have lived for twenty years, is low and flat. I
fear that she may have suffered in health and spirits by so long a residence there.  That is
one portent reason for the change we are making.  My dear, can you not recall those lines you
wrote--entitled, I think, 'The Georgia Hills'--the poem that was so extensively copied by the
Southern press and praised so highly by the Atlanta critics?"

Mrs. Blaylock turned a glance of speaking tenderness upon the Colonel, fingered for a moment
the silvery curl that drooped upon her bosom, then looked again toward the mountains.  Without
preliminary or affectation or demurral she began, in rather thrilling and more deeply pitched
tones to recite these lines:

  "The Georgia hills, the Georgia hills!--
    Oh, heart, why dost thou pine?
  Are not these sheltered lowlands fair
    With mead and bloom and vine?
  Ah! as the slow-paced river here
    Broods on its natal rills
  My spirit drifts, in longing sweet,
    Back to the Georgia hills.

  "And through the close-drawn, curtained night
    I steal on sleep's slow wings
  Back to my heart's ease--slopes of pine--
    Where end my wanderings.
  Oh, heaven seems nearer from their tops--
    And farther earthly ills--
  Even in dreams, if I may but
    Dream of my Georgia hills.

  The grass upon their orchard sides
    Is a fine couch to me;
  The common note of each small bird
    Passes all minstrelsy.
  It would not seem so dread a thing
    If, when the Reaper wills,
  He might come there and take my hand
    Up in the Georgia hills."

"That's great stuff, ma'am," said J. Pinkney Bloom, enthusiastically, when the poetess had
concluded.  "I wish I had looked up poetry more than I have.  I was raised in the pine hills
myself."

"The mountains ever call to their children," murmured Mrs. Blaylock. "I feel that life will
take on the rosy hue of hope again in among these beautiful hills.  Peyton--a little taste
of the currant wine, if you will be so good.  The journey, though delightful in the extreme,
slightly fatigues me."  Colonel Blaylock again visited the depths of his prolific coat, and
produced a tightly corked, rough, black bottle. Mr. Bloom was on his feet in an instant.

"Let me bring a glass, ma'am.  You come along, Colonel--there's a little table we can bring,
too.  Maybe we can scare up some fruit or a cup of tea on board.  I'll ask Mac."

Mrs. Blaylock reclined at ease.  Few royal ladies have held their royal prerogative with the
serene grace of the petted Southern woman. The Colonel, with an air as gallant and assiduous
as in the days of his courtship, and J. Pinkney Bloom, with a ponderous agility half professional
and half directed by some resurrected, unnamed, long-forgotten sentiment, formed a diversified
but attentive court. The currant wine--wine home made from the Holly Springs fruit--went round,
and then J. Pinkney began to hear something of Holly Springs life.

It seemed (from the conversation of the Blaylocks) that the Springs was decadent.  A third
of the population had moved away.  Business--and the Colonel was an authority on business--had
dwindled to nothing. After carefully studying the field of opportunities open to capital he
had sold his little property there for eight hundred dollars and invested it in one of the
enterprises opened up by the book in Okochee.

"Might I inquire, sir," said Mr. Bloom, "in what particular line of business you inserted your
coin?  I know that town as well as I know the regulations for illegal use of the mails.  I
might give you a hunch as to whether you can make the game go or not."

J. Pinkney, somehow, had a kindly feeling toward these unsophisticated representatives of by-gone
days.  They were so simple, impractical, and unsuspecting.  He was glad that he happened not
to have a gold brick or a block of that western Bad Boy Silver Mine stock along with him. 
He would have disliked to unload on people he liked so well as he did these; but there are
some temptations toe enticing to be resisted.

"No, sir," said Colonel Blaylock, pausing to arrange the queen's wrap. "I did not invest in
Okochee.  I have made an exhaustive study of business conditions, and I regard old settled
towns as unfavorable fields in which to place capital that is limited in amount.  Some months
ago, through the kindness of a friend, there came into my hands a map and description of this
new town of Skyland that has been built upon the lake.  The description was so pleasing, the
future of the town set forth in such convincing arguments, and its increasing prosperity portrayed
in such an attractive style that I decided to take advantage of the opportunity it offered.
I carefully selected a lot in the centre of the business district, although its price was the
highest in the schedule--five hundred dollars--and made the purchase at once."

"Are you the man--I mean, did you pay five hundred dollars for a lot in Skyland" asked J. Pinkney
Bloom.

"I did, sir," answered the Colonel, with the air of a modest millionaire explaining his success;
"a lot most excellently situated on the same square with the opera house, and only two squares
from the board of trade.  I consider the purchase a most fortuitous one. It is my intention
to erect a small building upon it at once, and open a modest book and stationery store.  During
past years I have met with many pecuniary reverses, and I now find it necessary to engage in
some commercial occupation that will furnish me with a livelihood.  The book and stationery
business, though an humble one, seems to me not inapt nor altogether uncongenial.  I am a graduate
of the University of Virginia; and Mrs. Blaylock's really wonderful acquaintance with belles-lettres
and poetic literature should go far toward insuring success.  Of course, Mrs. Blaylock would
not personally serve behind the counter.  With the nearly three hundred dollars I have remaining
I can manage the building of a house, by giving a lien on the lot.  I have an old friend in
Atlanta who is a partner in a large book store, and he has agreed to furnish me with a stock
of goods on credit, on extremely easy terms.  I am pleased to hope, sir, that Mrs. Blaylock's
health and happiness will be increased by the change of locality. Already I fancy I can perceive
the return of those roses that were once the hope and despair of Georgia cavaliers."

Again followed that wonderful bow, as the Colonel lightly touched the pale cheek of the poetess.
Mrs. Blaylock, blushing like a girl, shook her curl and gave the Colonel an arch, reproving
tap.  Secret of eternal youth--where art thou?  Every second the answer comes--"Here, here,
here."  Listen to thine own heartbeats, O weary seeker after external miracles.

"Those years," said Mrs. Blaylock, "in Holly Springs were long, long, long.  But now is the
promised land in sight.  Skyland!--a lovely name."

"Doubtless," said the Colonel, "we shall be able to secure comfortable accommodations at some
modest hotel at reasonable rates.  Our trunks are in Okochee, to be forwarded when we shall
have made permanent arrangements."

J. Pinkney Bloom excused himself, went forward, and stood by the captain at the wheel.

"Mac," said he, "do you remember my telling you once that I sold one of those five-hundred-dollar
lots in Skyland?"

"Seems I do," grinned Captain MacFarland.

"I'm not a coward, as a general rule," went on the promoter, "but I always said that if I ever
met the sucker that bought that lot I'd run like a turkey.  Now, you see that old babe-in-the-wood
over there? Well, he's the boy that drew the prize.  That was the only five-hundred-dollar
lot that went.  The rest ranged from ten dollars to two hundred.  His wife writes poetry. 
She's invented one about the high grounds of Georgia, that's way up in G.  They're going to
Skyland to open a book store."

"Well," said MacFarland, with another grin, "it's a good thing you are along, J. P.; you can
show 'em around town until they begin to feel at home."

"He's got three hundred dollars left to build a house and store with," went on J. Pinkney,
as if he were talking to himself.  "And he thinks there's an open house up there."

Captain MacFarland released the wheel long enough to give his leg a roguish slap.

"You old fat rascal!" he chuckled, with a wink.

"Mac, you're a fool," said J. Pinkney Bloom, coldly.  He went back and joined the Blaylocks,
where he sat, less talkative, with that straight furrow between his brows that always stood
as a signal of schemes being shaped within.

"There's a good many swindles connected with these booms," he said presently.  "What if this
Skyland should turn out to be one--that is, suppose business should be sort of dull there,
and no special sale for books?"

"My dear sir," said Colonel Blaylock, resting his hand upon the back of his wife's chair, "three
times I have been reduced to almost penury by the duplicity of others, but I have not yet lost
faith in humanity. If I have been deceived again, still we may glean health and content, if
not worldly profit.  I am aware that there are dishonest schemers in the world who set traps
for the unwary, but even they are not altogether bad.  My dear, can you recall those verses
entitled 'He Giveth the Increase,' that you composed for the choir of our church in Holly Springs?"

"That was four years ago," said Mrs. Blaylock; "perhaps I can repeat a verse or two.

  "The lily springs from the rotting mould;
    Pearls from the deep sea slime;
  Good will come out of Nazareth
    All in God's own time.

  "To the hardest heart the softening grace
    Cometh, at last, to bless;
  Guiding it right to help and cheer
    And succor in distress.

"I cannot remember the rest.  The lines were not ambitious.  They were written to the music
composed by a dear friend."

"It's a fine rhyme, just the same," declared Mr. Bloom.  "It seems to ring the bell, all right.
I guess I gather the sense of it.  It means that the rankest kind of a phony will give you
the best end of it once in a while."

Mr. Bloom strayed thoughtfully back to the captain, and stood meditating.

"Ought to be in sight of the spires and gilded domes of Skyland now in a few minutes," chirruped
MacFarland, shaking with enjoyment.

"Go to the devil," said Mr. Bloom, still pensive.

And now, upon the left bank, they caught a glimpse of a white village, high up on the hills,
smothered among green trees.  That was Cold Branch--no boom town, but the slow growth of many
years.  Cold Branch lay on the edge of the grape and corn lands.  The big country road ran
just back of the heights.  Cold Branch had nothing in common with the frisky ambition of Okochee
with its impertinent lake.

"Mac," said J. Pinkney suddenly, "I want you to stop at Cold Branch. There's a landing there
that they made to use sometimes when the river was up."

"Can't," said the captain, grinning more broadly.  "I've got the United States mails on board.
Right to-day this boat's in the government service.  Do you want to have the poor old captain
keelhauled by Uncle Sam?  And the great city of Skyland, all disconsolate, waiting for its
mail?  I'm ashamed of your extravagance, J. P."

"Mac," almost whispered J. Pinkney, in his danger-line voice, "I looked into the engine room
of the Dixie Belle a while ago.  Don't you know of somebody that needs a new boiler?  Cement
and black Japan can't hide flaws from me.  And then, those shares of building and loan that
you traded for repairs--they were all yours, of course.  I hate to mention these things, but--"

"Oh, come now, J. P.," said the captain.  "You know I was just fooling. I'll put you off at
Cold Branch, if you say so."

"The other passengers get off there, too," said Mr. Bloom.

Further conversation was held, and in ten minutes the Dixie Belle turned her nose toward a
little, cranky wooden pier on the left bank, and the captain, relinquishing the wheel to a
roustabout, came to the passenger deck and made the remarkable announcement:  "All out for
Skyland."

The Blaylocks and J. Pinkney Bloom disembarked, and the Dixie Belle proceeded on her way up
the lake.  Guided by the indefatigable promoter, they slowly climbed the steep hillside, pausing
often to rest and admire the view.  Finally they entered the village of Cold Branch. Warmly
both the Colonel and his wife praised it for its homelike and peaceful beauty.  Mr. Bloom conducted
them to a two-story building on a shady street that bore the legend, "Pine-top Inn."  Here
he took his leave, receiving the cordial thanks of the two for his attentions, the Colonel
remarking that he thought they would spend the remainder of the day in rest, and take a look
at his purchase on the morrow.

J. Pinkney Bloom walked down Cold Branch's main street.  He did not know this town, but he
knew towns, and his feet did not falter. Presently he saw a sign over a door:  "Frank E. Cooly,
Attorney-at-Law and Notary Public."  A young man was Mr. Cooly, and awaiting business.

"Get your hat, son," said Mr. Bloom, in his breezy way, "and a blank deed, and come along.
It's a job for you."

"Now," he continued, when Mr. Cooly had responded with alacrity, "is there a bookstore in town?"

"One," said the lawyer.  "Henry Williams's."

"Get there," said Mr. Bloom.  "We're going to buy it."

Henry Williams was behind his counter.  His store was a small one, containing a mixture of
books, stationery, and fancy rubbish. Adjoining it was Henry's home--a decent cottage, vine-embowered
and cosy.  Henry was lank and soporific, and not inclined to rush his business.

"I want to buy your house and store," said Mr. Bloom.  "I haven't got time to dicker--name
your price."

"It's worth eight hundred," said Henry, too much dazed to ask more than its value.

"Shut that door," said Mr. Bloom to the lawyer.  Then he tore off his coat and vest, and began
to unbutton his shirt.

"Wanter fight about it, do yer?" said Henry Williams, jumping up and cracking his heels together
twice.  "All right, hunky--sail in and cut yer capers."

"Keep your clothes on," said Mr. Bloom.  "I'm only going down to the bank."

He drew eight one-hundred-dollar bills from his money belt and planked them down on the counter.
Mr. Cooly showed signs of future promise, for he already had the deed spread out, and was reaching
across the counter for the ink bottle.  Never before or since was such quick action had in
Cold Branch.

"Your name, please?" asked the lawyer.

"Make it out to Peyton Blaylock," said Mr. Bloom.  "God knows how to spell it."

Within thirty minutes Henry Williams was out of business, and Mr. Bloom stood on the brick
sidewalk with Mr. Cooly, who held in his hand the signed and attested deed.

"You'll find the party at the Pinetop Inn," said J. Pinkney Bloom. "Get it recorded, and take
it down and give it to him.  He'll ask you a hell's mint of questions; so here's ten dollars
for the trouble you'll have in not being able to answer 'em.  Never run much to poetry, did
you, young man?"

"Well," said the really talented Cooly, who even yet retained his right mind, "now and then."

"Dig into it," said Mr. Bloom, "it'll pay you.  Never heard a poem, now, that run something
like this, did you?--

  A good thing out of Nazareth
    Comes up sometimes, I guess,
  On hand, all right, to help and cheer
    A sucker in distress."

"I believe not," said Mr. Cooly.

"It's a hymn," said J. Pinkney Bloom.  "Now, show me the way to a livery stable, son, for I'm
going to hit the dirt road back to Okochee."

CONFESSIONS OF A HUMORIST

There was a painless stage of incubation that lasted twenty-five years, and then it broke out
on me, and people said I was It.

But they called it humor instead of measles.

The employees in the store bought a silver inkstand for the senior partner on his fiftieth
birthday.  We crowded into his private office to present it.  I had been selected for spokesman,
and I made a little speech that I had been preparing for a week.

It made a hit.  It was full of puns and epigrams and funny twists that brought down the house--which
was a very solid one in the wholesale hardware line.  Old Marlowe himself actually grinned,
and the employees took their cue and roared.

My reputation as a humorist dates from half-past nine o'clock on that morning.  For weeks afterward
my fellow clerks fanned the flame of my self-esteem.  One by one they came to me, saying what
an awfully clever speech that was, old man, and carefully explained to me the point of each
one of my jokes.

Gradually I found that I was expected to keep it up.  Others might speak sanely on business
matters and the day's topics, but from me something gamesome and airy was required.

I was expected to crack jokes about the crockery and lighten up the granite ware with persiflage.
I was second bookkeeper, and if I failed to show up a balance sheet without something comic
about the footings or could find no cause for laughter in an invoice of plows, the other clerks
were disappointed.  By degrees my fame spread, and I became a local "character."  Our town
was small enough to make this possible. The daily newspaper quoted me.  At social gatherings
I was indispensable.

I believe I did possess considerable wit and a facility for quick and spontaneous repartee.
This gift I cultivated and improved by practice. And the nature of it was kindly and genial,
not running to sarcasm or offending others.  People began to smile when they saw me coming,
and by the time we had met I generally had the word ready to broaden the smile into a laugh.

I had married early.  We had a charming boy of three and a girl of five.  Naturally, we lived
in a vine-covered cottage, and were happy. My salary as bookkeeper in the hardware concern
kept at a distance those ills attendant upon superfluous wealth.

At sundry times I had written out a few jokes and conceits that I considered peculiarly happy,
and had sent them to certain periodicals that print such things.  All of them had been instantly
accepted. Several of the editors had written to request further contributions.

One day I received a letter from the editor of a famous weekly publication.  He suggested that
I submit to him a humorous composition to fill a column of space; hinting that he would make
it a regular feature of each issue if the work proved satisfactory.  I did so, and at the end
of two weeks he offered to make a contract with me for a year at a figure that was considerably
higher than the amount paid me by the hardware firm.

I was filled with delight.  My wife already crowned me in her mind with the imperishable evergreens
of literary success.  We had lobster croquettes and a bottle of blackberry wine for supper
that night. Here was the chance to liberate myself from drudgery.  I talked over the matter
very seriously with Louisa.  We agreed that I must resign my place at the store and devote
myself to humor.

I resigned.  My fellow clerks gave me a farewell banquet.  The speech I made there coruscated.
It was printed in full by the Gazette.  The next morning I awoke and looked at the clock.

"Late, by George!" I exclaimed, and grabbed for my clothes.  Louisa reminded me that I was
no longer a slave to hardware and contractors' supplies.  I was now a professional humorist.

After breakfast she proudly led me to the little room off the kitchen. Dear girl!   There was
my table and chair, writing pad, ink, and pipe tray.  And all the author's trappings--the celery
stand full of fresh roses and honeysuckle, last year's calendar on the wall, the dictionary,
and a little bag of chocolates to nibble between inspirations.  Dear girl!

I sat me to work.  The wall paper is patterned with arabesques or odalisks or--perhaps--it
is trapezoids.  Upon one of the figures I fixed my eyes.  I bethought me of humor.

A voice startled me--Louisa's voice.

"If you aren't too busy, dear," it said, "come to dinner."

I looked at my watch.  Yes, five hours had been gathered in by the grim scytheman.  I went
to dinner.

"You mustn't work too hard at first," said Louisa.  "Goethe--or was it Napoleon?--said five
hours a day is enough for mental labor.  Couldn't you take me and the children to the woods
this afternoon?"

"I am a little tired," I admitted.  So we went to the woods.

But I soon got the swing of it.  Within a month I was turning out copy as regular as shipments
of hardware.

And I had success.  My column in the weekly made some stir, and I was referred to in a gossipy
way by the critics as something fresh in the line of humorists.  I augmented my income considerably
by contributing to other publications.

I picked up the tricks of the trade.  I could take a funny idea and make a two-line joke of
it, earning a dollar.  With false whiskers on, it would serve up cold as a quatrain, doubling
its producing value.  By turning the skirt and adding a ruffle of rhyme you would hardly recognize
it as vers de societe with neatly shod feet and a fashion-plate illustration.

I began to save up money, and we had new carpets, and a parlor organ. My townspeople began
to look upon me as a citizen of some consequence instead of the merry trifler I had been when
I clerked in the hardware store.

After five or six months the spontaniety seemed to depart from my humor.  Quips and droll sayings
no longer fell carelessly from my lips. I was sometimes hard run for material.  I found myself
listening to catch available ideas from the conversation of my friends.  Sometimes I chewed
my pencil and gazed at the wall paper for hours trying to build up some gay little bubble of
unstudied fun.

And then I became a harpy, a Moloch, a Jonah, a vampire, to my acquaintances.  Anxious, haggard,
greedy, I stood among them like a veritable killjoy.  Let a bright saying, a witty comparison,
a piquant phrase fall from their lips and I was after it like a hound springing upon a bone.
I dared not trust my memory; but, turning aside guiltily and meanly, I would make a note of
it in my ever-present memorandum book or upon my cuff for my own future use.

My friends regarded me in sorrow and wonder. I was not the same man. Where once I had furnished
them entertainment and jollity, I now preyed upon them.  No jests from me ever bid for their
smiles now. They were too precious.  I could not afford to dispense gratuitously the means
of my livelihood.

I was a lugubrious fox praising the singing of my friends, the crow's, that they might drop
from their beaks the morsels of wit that I coveted.

Nearly every one began to avoid me.  I even forgot how to smile, not even paying that much
for the sayings I appropriated.

No persons, places, times, or subjects were exempt from my plundering in search of material.
Even in church my demoralized fancy went hunting among the solemn aisles and pillars for spoil.

Did the minister give out the long-meter doxology, at once I began: "Doxology--sockdology--sockdolager--meter--meet
her."

The sermon ran through my mental sieve, its precepts filtering unheeded, could I but glean
a suggestion of a pun or a bon mot. The solemnest anthems of the choir were but an accompaniment
to my thoughts as I conceived new changes to ring upon the ancient comicalities concerning
the jealousies of soprano, tenor, and basso.

My own home became a hunting ground.  My wife is a singularly feminine creature, candid, sympathetic,
and impulsive.  Once her conversation was my delight, and her ideas a source of unfailing pleasure.
Now I worked her.  She was a gold mine of those amusing but lovable inconsistencies that distinguish
the female mind.

I began to market those pearls of unwisdom and humor that should have enriched only the sacred
precincts of home.  With devilish cunning I encouraged her to talk.  Unsuspecting, she laid
her heart bare.  Upon the cold, conspicuous, common, printed page I offered it to the public gaze.

A literary Judas, I kissed her and betrayed her.  For pieces of silver I dressed her sweet
confidences in the pantalettes and frills of folly and made them dance in the market place.

Dear Louisa!  Of nights I have bent over her cruel as a wolf above a tender lamb, hearkening
even to her soft words murmured in sleep, hoping to catch an idea for my next day's grind.
There is worse to come.

God help me!  Next my fangs were buried deep in the neck of the fugitive sayings of my little
children.

Guy and Viola were two bright fountains of childish, quaint thoughts and speeches.  I found
a ready sale for this kind of humor, and was furnishing a regular department in a magazine
with "Funny Fancies of Childhood."  I began to stalk them as an Indian stalks the antelope.
I would hide behind sofas and doors, or crawl on my hands and knees among the bushes in the
yard to eavesdrop while they were at play. I had all the qualities of a harpy except remorse.

Once, when I was barren of ideas, and my copy must leave in the next mail, I covered myself
in a pile of autumn leaves in the yard, where I knew they intended to come to play.  I cannot
bring myself to believe that Guy was aware of my hiding place, but even if he was, I would
be loath to blame him for his setting fire to the leaves, causing the destruction of my new
suit of clothes, and nearly cremating a parent.

Soon my own children began to shun me as a pest.  Often, when I was creeping upon them like
a melancholy ghoul, I would hear them say to each other:  "Here comes papa," and they would
gather their toys and scurry away to some safer hiding place.  Miserable wretch that I was!

And yet I was doing well financially.  Before the first year had passed I had saved a thousand
dollars, and we had lived in comfort.

But at what a cost!  I am not quite clear as to what a pariah is, but I was everything that
it sounds like.  I had no friends, no amusements, no enjoyment of life.  The happiness of my
family had been sacrificed. I was a bee, sucking sordid honey from life's fairest flowers,
dreaded and shunned on account of my stingo.

One day a man spoke to me, with a pleasant and friendly smile. Not in months had the thing
happened.  I was passing the undertaking establishment of Peter Heffelbower.  Peter stood in
the door and saluted me.  I stopped, strangely wrung in my heart by his greeting. He asked
me inside.

The day was chill and rainy.  We went into the back room, where a fire burned, in a little
stove.  A customer came, and Peter left me alone for a while.  Presently I felt a new feeling
stealing over me--a sense of beautiful calm and content, I looked around the place. There were
rows of shining rosewood caskets, black palls, trestles, hearse plumes, mourning streamers,
and all the paraphernalia of the solemn trade. Here was peace, order, silence, the abode of
grave and dignified reflections.  Here, on the brink of life, was a little niche pervaded by
the spirit of eternal rest.

When I entered it, the follies of the world abandoned me at the door. I felt no inclination
to wrest a humorous idea from those sombre and stately trappings.  My mind seemed to stretch
itself to grateful repose upon a couch draped with gentle thoughts.

A quarter of an hour ago I was an abandoned humorist.  Now I was a philosopher, full of serenity
and ease.  I had found a refuge from humor, from the hot chase of the shy quip, from the degrading
pursuit of the panting joke, from the restless reach after the nimble repartee.

I had not known Heffelbower well.  When he came back, I let him talk, fearful that he might
prove to be a jarring note in the sweet, dirgelike harmony of his establishment.

But, no.  He chimed truly.  I gave a long sigh of happiness.  Never have I known a man's talk
to be as magnificently dull as Peter's was. Compared with it the Dead Sea is a geyser.  Never
a sparkle or a glimmer of wit marred his words.  Commonplaces as trite and as plentiful as
blackberries flowed from his lips no more stirring in quality than a last week's tape running
from a ticker.  Quaking a little, I tried upon him one of my best pointed jokes.  It fell back
ineffectual, with the point broken.  I loved that man from then on.

Two or three evenings each week I would steal down to Heffelbower's and revel in his back room.
That was my only joy.  I began to rise early and hurry through my work, that I might spend
more time in my haven. In no other place could I throw off my habit of extracting humorous
ideas from my surroundings.  Peter's talk left me no opening had I besieged it ever so hard.

Under this influence I began to improve in spirits.  It was the recreation from one's labor
which every man needs.  I surprised one or two of my former friends by throwing them a smile
and a cheery word as I passed them on the streets.  Several times I dumfounded my family by
relaxing long enough to make a jocose remark in their presence.

I had so long been ridden by the incubus of humor that I seized my hours of holiday with a
schoolboy's zest.

Mv work began to suffer.  It was not the pain and burden to me that it had been.  I often whistled
at my desk, and wrote with far more fluency than before.  I accomplished my tasks impatiently,
as anxious to be off to my helpful retreat as a drunkard is to get to his tavern.

My wife had some anxious hours in conjecturing where I spent my afternoons.  I thought it best
not to tell her; women do not understand these things.  Poor girl!--she had one shock out of it.

One day I brought home a silver coffin handle for a paper weight and a fine, fluffy hearse
plume to dust my papers with.

I loved to see them on my desk, and think of the beloved back room down at Heffelbower's. 
But Louisa found them, and she shrieked with horror. I had to console her with some lame excuse
for having them, but I saw in her eyes that the prejudice was not removed.  I had to remove
the articles, though, at double-quick time.

One day Peter Heffelbower laid before me a temptation that swept me off my feet.  In his sensible,
uninspired way he showed me his books, and explained that his profits and his business were
increasing rapidly. He had thought of taking in a partner with some cash.  He would rather
have me than any one he knew.  When I left his place that afternoon Peter had my check for
the thousand dollars I had in the bank, and I was a partner in his undertaking business.

I went home with feelings of delirious joy, mingled with a certain amount of doubt.  I was
dreading to tell my wife about it.  But I walked on air.  To give up the writing of humorous
stuff, once more to enjoy the apples of life, instead of squeezing them to a pulp for a few
drops of hard cider to make the pubic feel funny--what a boon that would be!

At the supper table Louisa handed me some letters that had come during my absence.  Several
of them contained rejected manuscript.  Ever since I first began going to Heffelbower's my
stuff had been coming back with alarming frequency.  Lately I had been dashing off my jokes
and articles with the greatest fluency.  Previously I had labored like a bricklayer, slowly
and with agony.

Presently I opened a letter from the editor of the weekly with which I had a regular contract.
The checks for that weekly article were still our main dependence.  The letter ran thus:

DEAR SIR:

As you are aware, our contract for the year expires with the present month.  While regretting
the necessity for so doing, we must say that we do not care to renew same for the coming year.
We were quite pleased with your style of humor, which seems to have delighted quite a large
proportion of our readers.  But for the past two months we have noticed a decided falling off
in its quality.  Your earlier work showed a spontaneous, easy, natural flow of fun and wit.
Of late it is labored, studied, and unconvincing, giving painful evidence of hard toil and
drudging mechanism.

Again regretting that we do not consider your contributions available any longer, we are, yours
sincerely,

THE EDITOR.

I handed this letter to my wife.  After she had read it her face grew extremely long, and there
were tears in her eyes.

"The mean old thing!" she exclaimed indignantly.  "I'm sure your pieces are just as good as
they ever were.  And it doesn't take you half as long to write them as it did."  And then,
I suppose, Louisa thought of the checks that would cease coming.  "Oh, John," she wailed, "what
will you do now?"

For an answer I got up and began to do a polka step around the supper table.  I am sure Louisa
thought the trouble had driven me mad; and I think the children hoped it had, for they tore
after me, yelling with glee and emulating my steps.  I was now something like their old playmate
as of yore.

"The theatre for us to-night!" I shouted; "nothing less.  And a late, wild, disreputable supper
for all of us at the Palace Restaurant. Lumpty-diddle-de-dee-de-dum!"

And then I explained my glee by declaring that I was now a partner in a prosperous undertaking
establishment, and that written jokes might go hide their heads in sackcloth and ashes for all me.

With the editor's letter in her hand to justify the deed I had done, my wife could advance
no objections save a few mild ones based on the feminine inability to appreciate a good thing
such as the little back room of Peter Hef--no, of Heffelbower & Co's. undertaking establishment.

In conclusion, I will say that to-day you will find no man in our town as well liked, as jovial,
and full of merry sayings as I.  My jokes are again noised about and quoted; once more I take
pleasure in my wife's confidential chatter without a mercenary thought, while Guy and Viola
play at my feet distributing gems of childish humor without fear of the ghastly tormentor who
used to dog their steps, notebook in hand.

Our business has prospered finely. I keep the books and look after the shop, while Peter attends
to outside matters.  He says that my levity and high spirits would simply turn any funeral
into a regular Irish wake.

THE SPARROWS IN MADISON SQUARE

The young man in straitened circumstances who comes to New York City to enter literature has
but one thing to do, provided he has studied carefully his field in advance.  He must go straight
to Madison Square, write an article about the sparrows there, and sell it to the Sun for $15.

I cannot recall either a novel or a story dealing with the popular theme of the young writer
from the provinces who comes to the metropolis to win fame and fortune with his pen in which
the hero does not get his start that way.  It does seem strange that some author, in casting
about for startlingly original plots, has not hit upon the idea of having his hero write about
the bluebirds in Union Square and sell it to the Herald.  But a search through the files of
metropolitan fiction counts up overwhelmingly for the sparrows and the old Garden Square, and
the Sun always writes the check.

Of course it is easy to understand why this first city venture of the budding author is always
successful.  He is primed by necessity to a superlative effort; mid the iron and stone and
marble of the roaring city he has found this spot of singing birds and green grass and trees;
every tender sentiment in his nature is baffling with the sweet pain of homesickness; his genius
is aroused as it never may be again; the birds chirp, the tree branches sway, the noise of
wheels is forgotten; he writes with his soul in his pen--and he sells it to the Sun for $15.

I had read of this custom during many years before I came to New York. When my friends were
using their strongest arguments to dissuade me from coming, I only smiled serenely.  They did
not know of that sparrow graft I had up my sleeve.

When I arrived in New York, and the car took me straight from the ferry up Twenty-third Street
to Madison Square, I could hear that $15 check rustling in my inside pocket.

I obtained lodging at an unhyphenated hostelry, and the next morning I was on a bench in Madison
Square almost by the time the sparrows were awake.  Their melodious chirping, the benignant
spring foliage of the noble trees and the clean, fragrant grass reminded me so potently of
the old farm I had left that tears almost came into my eyes.

Then, all in a moment, I felt my inspiration.  The brave, piercing notes of those cheerful
small birds formed a keynote to a wonderful, light, fanciful song of hope and joy and altruism.
Like myself, they were creatures with hearts pitched to the tune of woods and fields; as I
was, so were they captives by circumstance in the discordant, dull city--yet with how much
grace and glee they bore the restraint!

And then the early morning people began to pass through the square to their work--sullen people,
with sidelong glances and glum faces, hurrying, hurrying, hurrying.  And I got my theme cut
out clear from the bird notes, and wrought it into a lesson, and a poem, and a carnival dance,
and a lullaby; and then translated it all into prose and began to write.

For two hours my pencil traveled over my pad with scarcely a rest. Then I went to the little
room I had rented for two days, and there I cut it to half, and then mailed it, white-hot,
to the Sun.

The next morning I was up by daylight and spent two cents of my capital for a paper.  If the
word "sparrow" was in it I was unable to find it. I took it up to my room and spread it out
on the bed and went over it, column by column.  Something was wrong.

Three hours afterward the postman brought me a large envelope containing my MS. and a piece
of inexpensive paper, about 3 inches by 4--I suppose some of you have seen them--upon which
was written in violet ink, "With the Sun's thanks."

I went over to the square and sat upon a bench.  No; I did not think it necessary to eat any
breakfast that morning.  The confounded pests of sparrows were making the square hideous with
their idiotic "cheep, cheep."  I never saw birds so persistently noisy, impudent, and disagreeable
in all my life.

By this time, according to all traditions, I should have been standing in the office of the
editor of the Sun.  That personage--a tall, grave, white-haired man--would strike a silver
bell as he grasped my hand and wiped a suspicious moisture from his glasses.

"Mr. McChesney," he would be saying when a subordinate appeared, "this is Mr. Henry, the young
man who sent in that exquisite gem about the sparrows in Madison Square.  You may give him
a desk at once.  Your salary, sir, will be $80 a week, to begin with."

This was what I had been led to expect by all writers who have evolved romances of literary
New York.

Something was decidedly wrong with tradition.  I could not assume the blame, so I fixed it
upon the sparrows.  I began to hate them with intensity and heat.

At that moment an individual wearing an excess of whiskers, two hats, and a pestilential air
slid into the seat beside me.

"Say, Willie," he muttered cajolingly, "could you cough up a dime out of your coffers for a
cup of coffee this morning?"

"I'm lung-weary, my friend," said I.  "The best I can do is three cents."

"And you look like a gentleman, too," said he.  "What brung you down?--boozer?"

"Birds," I said fiercely.  "The brown-throated songsters carolling songs of hope and cheer
to weary man toiling amid the city's dust and din.  The little feathered couriers from the
meadows and woods chirping sweetly to us of blue skies and flowering fields.  The confounded
little squint-eyed nuisances yawping like a flock of steam pianos, and stuffing themselves
like aldermen with grass seeds and bugs, while a man sits on a bench and goes without his breakfast.
Yes, sir, birds! look at them!"

As I spoke I picked up a dead tree branch that lay by the bench, and hurled it with all my
force into a close congregation of the sparrows on the grass.  The flock flew to the trees
with a babel of shrill cries; but two of them remained prostrate upon the turf.

In a moment my unsavory friend had leaped over the row of benches and secured the fluttering
victims, which he thrust hurriedly into his pockets.  Then he beckoned me with a dirty forefinger.

"Come on, cully," he said hoarsely.  "You're in on the feed."

Thank you very much!

Weakly I followed my dingy acquaintance.  He led me away from the park down a side street and
through a crack in a fence into a vacant lot where some excavating had been going on.  Behind
a pile of old stones and lumber he paused, and took out his birds.

"I got matches," said he.  "You got any paper to start a fire with?"

I drew forth my manuscript story of the sparrows, and offered it for burnt sacrifice.  There
were old planks, splinters, and chips for our fire.  My frowsy friend produced from some interior
of his frayed clothing half a loaf of bread, pepper, and salt.

In ten minutes each of us was holding a sparrow spitted upon a stick over the leaping flames.

"Say," said my fellow bivouacker, "this ain't so bad when a fellow's hungry.  It reminds me
of when I struck New York first--about fifteen years ago.  I come in from the West to see if
I could get a job on a newspaper.  I hit the Madison Square Park the first mornin' after, and
was sitting around on the benches.  I noticed the sparrows chirpin', and the grass and trees
so nice and green that I thought I was back in the country again.  Then I got some papers out
of my pocket, and--"

"I know," I interrupted.  "You sent it to the Sun and got $15."

"Say," said my friend, suspiciously, "you seem to know a good deal. Where was you?  I went
to sleep on the bench there, in the sun, and somebody touched me for every cent I had--$15."

HEARTS AND HANDS

At Denver there was an influx of passengers into the coaches on the eastbound B. & M. express.
In one coach there sat a very pretty young woman dressed in elegant taste and surrounded by
all the luxurious comforts of an experienced traveler.  Among the newcomers were two young
men, one of handsome presence with a bold, frank countenance and manner; the other a ruffled,
glum-faced person, heavily built and roughly dressed.  The two were handcuffed together.

As they passed down the aisle of the coach the only vacant seat offered was a reversed one
facing the attractive young woman.  Here the linked couple seated themselves.  The young woman's
glance fell upon them with a distant, swift disinterest; then with a lovely smile brightening
her countenance and a tender pink tingeing her rounded cheeks, she held out a little gray-gloved
hand.  When she spoke her voice, full, sweet, and deliberate, proclaimed that its owner was
accustomed to speak and be heard.

"Well, Mr. Easton, if you will make me speak first, I suppose I must. Don't you ever recognize
old friends when you meet them in the West?"

The younger man roused himself sharply at the sound of her voice, seemed to struggle with a
slight embarrassment which he threw off instantly, and then clasped her fingers with his left hand.

"It's Miss Fairchild," he said, with a smile.  "I'll ask you to excuse the other hand; it's
otherwise engaged just at present."

He slightly raised his right hand, bound at the wrist by the shining "bracelet" to the left
one of his companion.  The glad look in the girl's eyes slowly changed to a bewildered horror.
The glow faded from her cheeks.  Her lips parted in a vague, relaxing distress. Easton, with
a little laugh, as if amused, was about to speak again when the other forestalled him.  The
glum-faced man had been watching the girl's countenance with veiled glances from his keen,
shrewd eyes.

"You'll excuse me for speaking, miss, but, I see you're acquainted with the marshall here.
If you'll ask him to speak a word for me when we get to the pen he'll do it, and it'll make
things easier for me there. He's taking me to Leavenworth prison.  It's seven years for counterfeiting."

"Oh!" said the girl, with a deep breath and returning color.  "So that is what you are doing
out here?  A marshal!"

"My dear Miss Fairchild," said Easton, calmly, "I had to do something. Money has a way of taking
wings unto itself, and you know it takes money to keep step with our crowd in Washington. 
I saw this opening in the West, and--well, a marshalship isn't quite as high a position as
that of ambassador, but--"

"The ambassador," said the girl, warmly, "doesn't call any more.  He needn't ever have done
so.  You ought to know that.  And so now you are one of these dashing Western heroes, and you
ride and shoot and go into all kinds of dangers.  That's different from the Washington life.
You have been missed from the old crowd."

The girl's eyes, fascinated, went back, widening a little, to rest upon the glittering handcuffs.

"Don't you worry about them, miss," said the other man.  "All marshals handcuff themselves
to their prisoners to keep them from getting away. Mr. Easton knows his business."

"Will we see you again soon in Washington?" asked the girl.

"Not soon, I think," said Easton.  "My butterfly days are over, I fear."

"I love the West," said the girl irrelevantly.  Her eyes were shining softly.  She looked away
out the car window.  She began to speak truly and simply without the gloss of style and manner:
"Mamma and I spent the summer in Denver.  She went home a week ago because father was slightly
ill.  I could live and be happy in the West.  I think the air here agrees with me.  Money isn't
everything. But people always misunderstand things and remain stupid--"

"Say, Mr. Marshal," growled the glum-faced man.  "This isn't quite fair.  I'm needing a drink,
and haven't had a smoke all day.  Haven't you talked long enough?  Take me in the smoker now,
won't you?  I'm half dead for a pipe."

The bound travelers rose to their feet, Easton with the same slow smile on his face.

"I can't deny a petition for tobacco," he said, lightly.  "It's the one friend of the unfortunate.
Good-bye, Miss Fairchild.  Duty calls, you know."  He held out his hand for a farewell.

"It's too bad you are not going East," she said, reclothing herself with manner and style.
"But you must go on to Leavenworth, I suppose?"

"Yes," said Easton, "I must go on to Leavenworth."

The two men sidled down the aisle into the smoker.

The two passengers in a seat near by had heard most of the conversation.  Said one of them:
"That marshal's a good sort of chap. Some of these Western fellows are all right."

"Pretty young to hold an office like that, isn't he?" asked the other.

"Young!" exclaimed the first speaker, "why--Oh! didn't you catch on? Say--did you ever know
an officer to handcuff a prisoner to his right hand?"

THE CACTUS

The most notable thing about Time is that it is so purely relative. A large amount of reminiscence
is, by common consent, conceded to the drowning man; and it is not past belief that one may
review an entire courtship while removing one's gloves.

That is what Trysdale was doing, standing by a table in his bachelor apartments.  On the table
stood a singular-looking green plant in a red earthen jar.  The plant was one of the species
of cacti, and was provided with long, tentacular leaves that perpetually swayed with the slightest
breeze with a peculiar beckoning motion.

Trysdale's friend, the brother of the bride, stood at a sideboard complaining at being allowed
to drink alone.  Both men were in evening dress.  White favors like stars upon their coats
shone through the gloom of the apartment.

As he slowly unbuttoned his gloves, there passed through Trysdale's mind a swift, scarifying
retrospect of the last few hours.  It seemed that in his nostrils was still the scent of the
flowers that had been banked in odorous masses about the church, and in his ears the lowpitched
hum of a thousand well-bred voices, the rustle of crisp garments, and, most insistently recurring,
the drawling words of the minister irrevocably binding her to another.

From this last hopeless point of view he still strove, as if it had become a habit of his mind,
to reach some conjecture as to why and how he had lost her.  Shaken rudely by the uncompromising
fact, he had suddenly found himself confronted by a thing he had never before faced--his own
innermost, unmitigated, arid unbedecked self.   He saw all the garbs of pretence and egoism
that he had worn now turn to rags of folly.  He shuddered at the thought that to others, before
now, the garments of his soul must have appeared sorry and threadbare. Vanity and conceit?
These were the joints in his armor.  And how free from either she had always been--But why--

As she had slowly moved up the aisle toward the altar he had felt an unworthy, sullen exultation
that had served to support him.  He had told himself that her paleness was from thoughts of
another than the man to whom she was about to give herself.  But even that poor consolation
had been wrenched from him.  For, when he saw that swift, limpid, upward look that she gave
the man when he took her hand, he knew himself to be forgotten.  Once that same look had been
raised to him, and he had gauged its meaning.  Indeed, his conceit had crumbled; its last prop
was gone.  Why had it ended thus?  There had been no quarrel between them, nothing--

For the thousandth time he remarshalled in his mind the events of those last few days before
the tide had so suddenly turned.

She had always insisted upon placing him upon a pedestal, and he had accepted her homage with
royal grandeur.  It had been a very sweet incense that she had burned before him; so modest
(he told himself); so childlike and worshipful, and (he would once have sworn) so sincere.
She had invested him with an almost supernatural number of high attributes and excellencies
and talents, and he had absorbed the oblation as a desert drinks the rain that can coax from
it no promise of blossom or fruit.

As Trysdale grimly wrenched apart the seam of his last glove, the crowning instance of his
fatuous and tardily mourned egoism came vividly back to him.  The scene was the night when
he had asked her to come up on his pedestal with him and share his greatness.  He could not,
now, for the pain of it, allow his mind to dwell upon the memory of her convincing beauty that
night--the careless wave of her hair, the tenderness and virginal charm of her looks and words.
But they had been enough, and they had brought him to speak.  During their conversation she
had said:

"And Captain Carruthers tells me that you speak the Spanish language like a native.  Why have
you hidden this accomplishment from me?  Is there anything you do not know?"

Now, Carruthers was an idiot.  No doubt he (Trysdale) had been guilty (he sometimes did such
things) of airing at the club some old, canting Castilian proverb dug from the hotchpotch at
the back of dictionaries. Carruthers, who was one of his incontinent admirers, was the very
man to have magnified this exhibition of doubtful erudition.

But, alas! the incense of her admiration had been so sweet and flattering.  He allowed the
imputation to pass without denial. Without protest, he allowed her to twine about his brow
this spurious bay of Spanish scholarship.  He let it grace his conquering head, and, among
its soft convolutions, he did not feel the prick of the thorn that was to pierce him later.

How glad, how shy, how tremulous she was!  How she fluttered like a snared bird when he laid
his mightiness at her feet!  He could have sworn, and he could swear now, that unmistakable
consent was in her eyes, but, coyly, she would give him no direct answer.  "I will send you
my answer to-morrow," she said; and he, the indulgent, confident victor, smilingly granted
the delay.  The next day he waited, impatient, in his rooms for the word.  At noon her groom
came to the door and left the strange cactus in the red earthen jar.  There was no note, no
message, merely a tag upon the plant bearing a barbarous foreign or botanical name.  He waited
until night, but her answer did not come.  His large pride and hurt vanity kept him from seeking
her. Two evenings later they met at a dinner.  Their greetings were conventional, but she looked
at him, breathless, wondering, eager. He was courteous, adamant, waiting her explanation. 
With womanly swiftness she took her cue from his manner, and turned to snow and ice. Thus,
and wider from this on, they had drifted apart.  Where was his fault?  Who had been to blame?
Humbled now, he sought the answer amid the ruins of his self-conceit.  If--

The voice of the other man in the room, querulously intruding upon his thoughts, aroused him.

"I say, Trysdale, what the deuce is the matter with you?  You look unhappy as if you yourself
had been married instead of having acted merely as an accomplice.  Look at me, another accessory,
come two thousand miles on a garlicky, cockroachy banana steamer all the way from South America
to connive at the sacrifice--please to observe how lightly my guilt rests upon my shoulders.
Only little sister I had, too, and now she's gone.  Come now! take something to ease your conscience."

"I don't drink just now, thanks," said Trysdale.

"Your brandy," resumed the other, coming over and joining him, "is abominable.  Run down to
see me some time at Punta Redonda, and try some of our stuff that old Garcia smuggles in. 
It's worth the trip. Hallo! here's an old acquaintance.  Wherever did you rake up this cactus,
Trysdale?"

"A present," said Trysdale, "from a friend.  Know the species?"

"Very well.  It's a tropical concern.  See hundreds of 'em around Punta every day.  Here's
the name on this tag tied to it.  Know any Spanish, Trysdale?"

"No," said Trysdale, with the bitter wraith of a smile--"Is it Spanish?"

"Yes.  The natives imagine the leaves are reaching out and beckoning to you.  They call it
by this name--Ventomarme. Name means in English, 'Come and take me.'"

THE DETECTIVE DETECTOR

I was walking in Central Park with Avery Knight, the great New York burglar, highwayman, and
murderer.

"But, my dear Knight," said I, "it sounds incredible.  You have undoubtedly performed some
of the most wonderful feats in your profession known to modern crime.  You have committed some
marvellous deeds under the very noses of the police--you have boldly entered the homes of millionaires
and held them up with an empty gun while you made free with their silver and jewels; you have
sandbagged citizens in the glare of Broadway's electric lights; you have killed and robbed
with superb openness and absolute impunity--but when you boast that within forty-eight hours
after committing a murder you can run down and actually bring me face to face with the detective
assigned to apprehend you, I must beg leave to express my doubts--remember, you are in New York."

Avery Knight smiled indulgently.

"You pique my professional pride, doctor," he said in a nettled tone. "I will convince you."

About twelve yards in advance of us a prosperous-looking citizen was rounding a clump of bushes
where the walk curved.  Knight suddenly drew a revolver and shot the man in the back.  His
victim fell and lay without moving.

The great murderer went up to him leisurely and took from his clothes his money, watch, and
a valuable ring and cravat pin.  He then rejoined me smiling calmly, and we continued our walk.

Ten steps and we met a policeman running toward the spot where the shot had been fired.  Avery
Knight stopped him.

"I have just killed a man," he announced, seriously, "and robbed him of his possessions."

"G'wan," said the policeman, angrily, "or I'll run yez in!  Want yer name in the papers, don't
yez?  I never knew the cranks to come around so quick after a shootin' before.  Out of th'
park, now, for yours, or I'll fan yez."

"What you have done," I said, argumentatively, as Knight and I walked on, "was easy.  But when
you come to the task of hunting down the detective that they send upon your trail you will
find that you have undertaken a difficult feat."

"Perhaps so," said Knight, lightly.  "I will admit that my success depends in a degree upon
the sort of man they start after me.  If it should be an ordinary plain-clothes man I might
fail to gain a sight of him.  If they honor me by giving the case to some one of their celebrated
sleuths I do not fear to match my cunning and powers of induction against his."

On the next afternoon Knight entered my office with a satisfied look on his keen countenance.

"How goes the mysterious murder?" I asked.

"As usual," said Knight, smilingly. "I have put in the morning at the police station and at
the inquest.  It seems that a card case of mine containing cards with my name and address was
found near the body. They have three witnesses who saw the shooting and gave a description
of me. The case has been placed in the hands of Shamrock Jolnes, the famous detective.  He
left Headquarters at 11:30 on the assignment. I waited at my address until two, thinking he
might call there."

I laughed, tauntingly.

"You will never see Jolnes," I continued, "until this murder has been forgotten, two or three
weeks from now.  I had a better opinion of your shrewdness, Knight.  During the three hours
and a half that you waited he has got out of your ken.  He is after you on true induction theories
now, and no wrongdoer has yet been known to come upon him while thus engaged.  I advise you
to give it up."

"Doctor," said Knight, with a sudden glint in his keen gray eye and a squaring of his chin,
"in spite of the record your city holds of something like a dozen homicides without a subsequent
meeting of the perpetrator, and the sleuth in charge of the case, I will undertake to break
that record.  To-morrow I will take you to Shamrock Jolnes--I will unmask him before you and
prove to you that it is not an impossibility for an officer of the law and a manslayer to stand
face to face in your city."

"Do it," said I, "and you'll have the sincere thanks of the Police Department."

On the next day Knight called for me in a cab.

"I've been on one or two false scents, doctor," he admitted.  "I know something of detectives'
methods, and I followed out a few of them, expecting to find Jolnes at the other end.  The
pistol being a .45-caliber, I thought surely I would find him at work on the clue in Forty-fifth
Street.  Then, again, I looked for the detective at the Columbia University, as the man's being
shot in the back naturally suggested hazing.  But I could not find a trace of him."

"--Nor will you," I said, emphatically.

"Not by ordinary methods," said Knight.  "I might walk up and down Broadway for a month without
success.  But you have aroused my pride, doctor; and if I fail to show you Shamrock Jolnes
this day, I promise you I will never kill or rob in your city again."

"Nonsense, man," I replied.  "When our burglars walk into our houses and politely demand, thousands
of dollars' worth of jewels, and then dine and bang the piano an hour or two before leaving,
how do you, a mere murderer, expect to come in contact with the detective that is looking for you?"

Avery Knight, sat lost in thought for a while.  At length he looked up brightly.

"Doc," said he, "I have it.  Put on your hat, and come with me.  In half an hour I guarantee
that you shall stand in the presence of Shamrock Jolnes."

I entered a cab with Avery Knight.  I did not hear his instructions to the driver, but the
vehicle set out at a smart pace up Broadway, turning presently into Fifth Avenue, and proceeding
northward again. It was with a rapidly beating heart that I accompanied this wonderful and
gifted assassin, whose analytical genius and superb self-confidence had prompted him to make
me the tremendous promise of bringing me into the presence of a murderer and the New York detective
in pursuit of him simultaneously.  Even yet I could not believe it possible.

"Are you sure that you are not being led into some trap?" I asked. "Suppose that your clue,
whatever it is, should bring us only into the presence of the Commissioner of Police and a
couple of dozen cops!"

"My dear doctor," said Knight, a little stiffly. "I would remind you that I am no gambler."

"I beg your pardon," said I.  "But I do not think you will find Jolnes."

The cab stopped before one of the handsomest residences on the avenue. Walking up and down
in front of the house was a man with long red whiskers, with a detective's badge showing on
the lapel of his coat. Now and then the man would remove his whiskers to wipe his face, and
then I would recognize at once the well-known features of the great New York detective.  Jolnes
was keeping a sharp watch upon the doors and windows of the house.

"Well, doctor," said Knight, unable to repress a note of triumph in his voice, "have you seen?"

"It is wonderful--wonderful!" I could not help exclaiming as our cab started on its return
trip.  "But how did you do it?  By what process of induction--"

"My dear doctor," interrupted the great murderer, "the inductive theory is what the detectives
use.  My process is more modern.  I call it the saltatorial theory.  Without bothering with
the tedious mental phenomena necessary to the solution of a mystery from slight clues, I jump
at once to a conclusion.  I will explain to you the method I employed in this case.

"In the first place, I argued that as the crime was committed in New York City in broad daylight,
in a public place and under peculiarly atrocious circumstances, and that as the most skilful
sleuth available was let loose upon the case, the perpetrator would never be discovered. Do
you not think my postulation justified by precedent?"

"Perhaps so," I replied, doggedly.  "But if Big Bill Dev--"

"Stop that," interrupted Knight, with a smile, "I've heard that several times.  It's too late
now.  I will proceed.

"If homicides in New York went undiscovered, I reasoned, although the best detective talent
was employed to ferret them out, it must be true that the detectives went about their work
in the wrong way. And not only in the wrong way, but exactly opposite from the right way. 
That was my clue.

"I slew the man in Central Park.  Now, let me describe myself to you.

"I am tall, with a black beard, and I hate publicity.  I have no money to speak of; I do not
like oatmeal, and it is the one ambition of my life to die rich.  I am of a cold and heartless
disposition.  I do not care for my fellowmen and I never give a cent to beggars or charity. Sciatica
and a host of neuralgias of the genre demand their use, and you can switch with bryony. The toothache
offers more diagnostic difficulties, because the movement of jaws not substantially modified,
it is distinguished from that of other drugs, by rheumatic origin, and belonging to the bryony
and nux vomica, in which the first is more regular, and in the past erethism there are more general.
The toothache, finally, that shows how the other corresponding to this drug, offers general feeling
of excoriation relieved by heat or by the outward impression of cold air, joining the tingling sensation
in the interval of the shootings.

Spasms and convulsions own ivy always depend on a cause asthenic and are usually the prelude
to paralysis. Stiffness, numbness or tingling, accompany and follow the shock spasmodic. Eclampsia,
tetanus and chorea, produced by cooling in water, are the main indications.

Curing Paralysis rhus, is the result of acute conditions, local, and mainly febrile, in nervous fevers,
ataxic, and typhoid. This paralysis is not general but affects one side of the body, with particularity
the lower extremities. The cause is usually a rheumatic condition; happens to the pain, sciatica and
more. In this case, paralysis sometimes incomplete. With regard to the paralysis of sumac own, be
aware that weaken the intellectual powers and annihilate on the muscle of other body parts. Such,
then, the trend of this medicine: weakening of the forces organic and psychic power.

= D = skin ailments .-- According to the characters already known
of the action of ivy, it is unnecessary present the indications of
this product with a view to testing.

Is special in vesicular erysipelas, especially in the face with common febrile symptoms, in certain flictenóides
eruptions, ruddy, with fever, thirst, insomnia, burning large occupying almost all is as abraded
skin and in the area to which mercury can be used before, but not arsenic and graphite, or
even the causticum, in spite of being shown a few times. Sumac is very useful in several cases
of recurrent erysipelas and detachment of the epidermis and exudation of a yellow serum sometimes
dries and forms a herpes crustacean. After of sumac, are usually necessary to remove the remains
of redness and swelling, calcium carbonate and graphite.

Some rubicundeces venous nose, fingers ... or efflorescence Rosaceae and frostbite can be treated
successfully with sumac, if the skin is smooth and no tension and
burning the rough may be alternated with the sumac in these cases.

No ivy is lower than wild pansy, but he Staphysagria, in the eruptions of the face known as
the cradle cap and creeping, with background on and serous exudation which produces the fall
and restoration of the crust. Eruptions on the scalp moist with redness in her around, demanding
and often sumac laurel-rose and graphite. Ringworm with vesicles, which exude a liquid puriforme
plates, which is preferably rhus required.

Vesicular eruptions, and pustular flictenóides are more similar skin conditions to this drug.
Consecutive crusts lie on a red base, secretes serum, There are itching and burning, sometimes
they are lazy.

In general, the eruptions impetiginosa on ruddy and purple background, especially in children, give
it to rhus. You can, however, Staphysagria be preferable, just as in eczema what is mercury, and
the dry form, oil, charcoal, subcarbonate potash and salt.

Not complete the study of this medicine without indicating the ease with which certain conditions
skin or mucous local sympathetic to the brain.

This depends on when Estense surface or asthenic character or putrid, include in the epidermal and
epithelial injury large number of taste nerve to the brain that transmit local alteration to
his character asthenic and putrid. This is what is observed in hives rashes on base ruddy flictenóides
eruptions with denudation of the large expanse dermis in certain rubicundeces erythematous vesicular
some epidemic diarrhea and bronchitis, and irritation old the stomach with dyspepsia and vomiting
from obstruction of the mucous membrane.

= Dose .=-- The dose of sumac are the same as those of aconite, the
bryony, the juniper .....

Sabina (Sabina).

§ I. - History.

The juniper is a family of conifers, Juss monadelfia .-- In the dioecious, Linn .-- This drug is
almost forgotten today, even in metrorrhagia and arthritic conditions. It abandons the Apparently,
with the rude rude empiricism which makes them an illegal use, regardless
medical practice these properties can be found in the more precious
the more strongly be deduced from the physiological tests and clinical
facts.

What little has been written a century ago is enough to inspire confidence
in this drug, otherwise very active.

In a few pages as disclosed, it being sufficient to effect a picture
esperimentales synthetic and clinical data.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Can these be divided into three groups from which their properties.

The first expresses its activities in the heart blood and hair of the same name, the second neural
relationship, the third in the plasticity and interstitial nutrition. It is, however, indispensable
complete the study of this drug, as we have discussed several times in this area Medical and are
convinced of how much you can earn with new and more complete experiments.

Erethism dominates the symptoms of the three groups. The first is rather spasm of febrile invasion
and the period of concentration that general inflammatory element, is more typical of hemorrhagic
active congestion of the Fluxion flegmásica. The second seems that part of the periphery rather
nervous tree to the atmosphere and taste nerve are relations of action and reaction with the blood
capillary system, which centers; of which is that always lead to
neuralgias Lampwork fluxion the affected part, or at least, are consecutive
in the same.

The third is a consequence of the first and the last term of the affection of the arterial capillaries,
where deposits are tophaceous the periostosis, burning sensations, the abrasions, crusty sores,
night sweats, erectile tumors, warts.

The action of juniper is directed mainly uterus, mucous membranes,
tissues whites and to the joints, which influence predominant explanations,
ranging its sphere of action, on the lymphatic system and nutritious,
and the fullness thereof, systems on arterial, capillary and nervous.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

The therapeutic effects are few, but well established. It is said that the juniper Aconite is
the uterus, in the sense that its action on the system Ereta arterial more pronounced mainly
in the uterus, in a manner opposite to that of rye ergot. The Sabina has a property admirably effective
in periods excess, congestion and active bleeding of this body. In strong women, or of a temperament
more delicate, but blood and nervous system, correcting blood loss in color red in of strong constitution
also corresponds sometimes to the black blood flow and venous as arterial pulsations were felt almost
everywhere, there are palpitations and pulse strong, but delayed
in short, in the state of orgasm plethora of blood and uterine in
women weak and annihilated, but the blood system irritability, loss
venous blood are more common in the state and congestive plethora
Ereta the uterus.

For other bleeding, especially the lung, the juniper is little different from the Brioni giving preference
to this, and even the aconite and arnica. Insist on one more time their relationships to the
uterus. An indication of the juniper is always a uterine irritability with active congestion, blood
and nervous excitement, which expresses the increase of venereal desires for contractive pains in
the womb, like labor pains, great sensitivity and even turgor or tingling in the breasts. Under
these conditions, periods are excesses, are up to twice a month,
and last for eight or ten days, or rise up metrorrhagia.

The blood usually has a red color, though sometimes blackish.

Girls who have heavy periods and very frequent, not always be considered and sick. The more plethoric
and early, or the more blood and irritability are, but the prudent physician should attend to
the precocity of the passions whose satisfaction is made usually late, and more should stop
to consider these flows to menstrual escedentes as an outlet that nature uses to maintain
balance between the flow blood for the generation, but caused by social custom, and the delay
the satisfaction of instinctual needs of the uterus. Attempt in these cases contain blood loss
of the genital organs, it exposes people to congestion pulmonale, a uterine orgasm, leading
to the consumption or the hysteria. Should the doctor limited to the administration of weak
doses of belladonna and carbonate of lime, juniper same, without attempting to violate nature,
or even less blood which operate depletions effect would perpetuate
a state that age gradually changed, and the marriage cure.

In any other circumstance, the quiet sabina erethism successful uterine congestive regulates
menstrual flow, cures metrorrhagia, moderates the excesses and extends lochia its action to the blood
loss that extend beyond the critical age, not only plethoric women, but in those of delicate constitution
or broken with predominant action congested and irritable uterus,
as seen above symptoms and arterial pulsations felt in several parts.

The plethora, orgasm matrix with erethism and excitement of sexual appetite, dependent rather
the state of the bodies of moral rules is a condition sometimes opposed to the corruption
of morals and a cause of infertility. The correct sabina this state regularizing the vitality of the
uterus and reducing the abundance and frequency of menstruation is the result more general. Some doses
of calcium carbonate help effectively to achieve this result.

The same medication is used to advantage in the provisions abortion that recognize the same causes.

With regard to the ownership of the juniper to reduce menstruation and cure excesses metrorrhagia due
to the plethora erethism and uterine, an observation suggests EXPERIENCE differentiates the action
of this drug from that of any other employee in opposite states, ie plethora erethism and uterine, but
with suppression or difficult menstruation. This observation consists in that, just as certain
drugs have an elective action on the system and not on the venous blood, on the nerve centers
and not on the periphery and expansively catamenial congestion of the juniper occupies mainly the
arterial capillaries limits the erethism and irritability, and tends, however, to activate
the bleeding by only venous capillaries are engorged, they receive, but can not hold or throw,
but only delete.

Aconite and a few drugs that act on the system blood and are more frankly sthenic others, act
the same way that the juniper active bleeding in general.

The juniper and its physiological effects is very similar to the drop, especially if irregular, for
access or incomplete, and rheumatoid arthritis, but people always temper blood, irritable or
ebullient.

The pain is lancinating dislacerantes, mainly affect joints and the periosteum of long bones, or
feel a burning pain and Pressing. The cool air soothes them, and are accompanied by sensation of
heaviness and discomfort in the general.

In rheumatic diseases is usually red and shiny swelling of the joints. This inflammation occurs
in the big toe gout where the juniper own. The bryony and arnica, in union with the former,
are the most appropriate drugs in erethism acute, or blood.

The juniper is also effective in a multitude of gouty and rheumatic diseases: in headache or
congestive headaches, pulsating and dizzying, with the diminution of hearing and vision for frequent
congestion heat, tension, local arterial pulsations, in toothache with shooting pain, pressing,
throbbing, aggravation by movement of the jaws and the heat of the
bed in congestive tonsils tonsils occupied and the pillars of palate,
even with throbbing and heat in dyspepsia irritative with a sensation
of fullness, lancinacion, heat, pressure in epigastrium, irregular
bowel movements, gas expulsion, in piles fluent, irritant, tingling,
and more generally bloody mucus flow.

When the drop in short has disfigured joints with concretions deposited tofáceas at different points,
the juniper is also useful even in people weakened and nutrition
altered, because the impulse of the heart is still strong and alive,
and because there are general irritability, a state of tension which
excludes the normal mucus secretions and asthenic.

Swediaur sabina successfully used to combat red vegetations and condyloma [17].

Others, after him, have obtained results in the production eSCelente sicósicas that were reluctant
to yours and nitric acid in small doses. Diseases of the periosteum is also fighting with the
juniper in local phlogosis conditions and irritability can not rely primarily phosphorus, mercury,
silicon ..... The juniper is still useful when in these circumstances, an injury that develops necrotic
bone, and a very ulceration painful burning edges, shiny and tight.
Finally, the inflammatory and pruritic vaginal discharge with well-formed
pus, fetid, thick, is fought successfully with the juniper, if there
are provisions generally analogous to its effects.

"Not the Cooper Union," explained the tall man--"but it was a union riot--at the Vanastor wedding."

"You seem to be in favor of lynch law," said the New Yorker, severely.

"No, sir, I am not.  No intelligent man is.  But, sir, there are certain cases when people
rise in their just majesty and take a righteous vengeance for crimes that the law is slow in
punishing. I am an advocate of law and order, but I will say to you that less than six months
ago I myself assisted at the lynching of one of that race that is creating a wide chasm between
your section of country and mine, sir."

"It is a deplorable condition," said the New Yorker, "that exists in the South, but--"

"I am from Indiana, sir," said the tall man, taking another chew; "and I don't think you will
condemn my course when I tell you that the colored man in question had stolen $9.60 in cash,
sir, from my own brother."

THE SNOW MAN

EDITORIAL NOTE.--Before the fatal illness of William Sydney Porter (known through his literary
work as "O. Henry") this American master of short-story writing had begun for Hampton's Magazine
the story printed below.  Illness crept upon him rapidly and he was compelled to give up writing
about at the point where the girl enters the story.

When he realized that he could do no more (it was his lifelong habit to write with a pencil,
never dictating to a stenographer), O. Henry told in detail the remainder of The Snow Man to
Harris Merton Lyon, whom he had often spoken of as one of the most effective short-story writers
of the present time.  Mr. Porter had delineated all of the characters, leaving only the rounding
out of the plot in the final pages to Mr. Lyon.

Housed and windowpaned from it, the greatest wonder to little children is the snow.  To men,
it is something like a crucible in which their world melts into a white star ten million miles
away. The man who can stand the test is a Snow Man; and this is his reading by Fahrenheit,
Reaumur, or Moses's carven tablets of stone.

Night had fluttered a sable pinion above the canyon of Big Lost River, and I urged my horse
toward the Bay Horse Ranch because the snow was deepening.  The flakes were as large as an
hour's circular tatting by Miss Wilkins's ablest spinster, betokening a heavy snowfall and
less entertainment and more adventure than the completion of the tatting could promise.  I
knew Ross Curtis of the Bay Horse, and that I would be welcome as a snow-bound pilgrim, both
for hospitality's sake and because Ross had few chances to confide in living creatures who
did not neigh, bellow, bleat, yelp, or howl during his discourse.

The ranch house was just within the jaws of the canyon where its builder may have fatuously
fancied that the timbered and rocky walls on both sides would have protected it from the wintry
Colorado winds; but I feared the drift.  Even now through the endless, bottomless rift in the
hills--the speaking tube of the four winds--came roaring the voice of the proprietor to the
little room on the top floor.

At my "hello," a ranch hand came from an outer building and received my thankful horse.  In
another minute, Ross and I sat by a stove in the dining-room of the four-room ranch house,
while the big, simple welcome of the household lay at my disposal.  Fanned by the whizzing
norther, the fine, dry snow was sifted and bolted through the cracks and knotholes of the logs.
The cook room, without a separating door, appended.

In there I could see a short, sturdy, leisurely and weather-beaten man moving with professional
sureness about his red-hot stove. His face was stolid and unreadable--something like that of
a great thinker, or of one who had no thoughts to conceal.  I thought his eye seemed unwarrantably
superior to the elements and to the man, but quickly attributed that to the characteristic
self-importance of a petty chef. "Camp cook" was the niche that I gave him in the Hall of Types;
and he fitted it as an apple fits a dumpling.

Cold it was in spite of the glowing stove; and Ross and I sat and talked, shuddering frequently,
half from nerves and half from the freezing draughts.  So he brought the bottle and the cook
brought boiling water, and we made prodigious hot toddies against the attacks of Boreas.  We
clinked glasses often.  They sounded like icicles dropping from the eaves, or like the tinkle
of a thousand prisms on a Louis XIV chandelier that I once heard at a boarder's dance in the
parlor of a ten-a-week boarding-house in Gramercy Square.  Sic transit.

Silence in the terrible beauty of the snow and of the Sphinx and of the stars; but they who
believe that all things, from a without-wine table d'hote to the crucifixion, may be interpreted
through music, might have found a nocturne or a symphony to express the isolation of that blotted-out
world.  The clink of glass and bottle, the aeolian chorus of the wind in the house crannies,
its deeper trombone through the canyon below, and the Wagnerian crash of the cook's pots and
pans, united in a fit, discordant melody, I thought.  No less welcome an accompaniment was
the sizzling of broiling ham and venison cutlet indorsed by the solvent fumes of true Java,
bringing rich promises of comfort to our yearning souls.

The cook brought the smoking supper to the table.  He nodded to me democratically as he cast
the heavy plates around as though he were pitching quoits or hurling the discus.  I looked
at him with some appraisement and curiosity and much conciliation.  There was no prophet to
tell us when that drifting evil outside might cease to fall; and it is well, when snow-bound,
to stand somewhere within the radius of the cook's favorable consideration.  But I could read
neither favor nor disapproval in the face and manner of our pot-wrestler.

He was about five feet nine inches, and two hundred pounds of commonplace, bull-necked, pink-faced,
callous calm.  He wore brown duck trousers too tight and too short, and a blue flannel shirt
with sleeves rolled above his elbows.  There was a sort of grim, steady scowl on his features
that looked to me as though he had fixed it there purposely as a protection against the weakness
of an inherent amiability that, he fancied, were better concealed.  And then I let supper usurp
his brief occupancy of my thoughts.

"Draw up, George," said Ross.  "Let's all eat while the grub's hot."

"You fellows go on and chew," answered the cook.  "I ate mine in the kitchen before sun-down."

"Think it'll be a big snow, George?" asked the ranchman.

George had turned to reenter the cook room.  He moved slowly around and, looking at his face,
it seemed to me that he was turning over the wisdom and knowledge of centuries in his head.

"It might," was his delayed reply.

At the door of the kitchen he stopped and looked back at us.  Both Ross and I held our knives
and forks poised and gave him our regard. Some men have the power of drawing the attention
of others without speaking a word.  Their attitude is more effective than a shout.

"And again it mightn't," said George, and went back to his stove.

After we had eaten, he came in and gathered the emptied dishes.  He stood for a moment, while
his spurious frown deepened.

"It might stop any minute," he said, "or it might keep up for days."

At the farther end of the cook room I saw George pour hot water into his dishpan, light his
pipe, and put the tableware through its required lavation.  He then carefully unwrapped from
a piece of old saddle blanket a paperback book, and settled himself to read by his dim oil lamp.

And then the ranchman threw tobacco on the cleared table and set forth again the bottles and
glasses; and I saw that I stood in a deep channel through which the long dammed flood of his
discourse would soon be booming.  But I was half content, comparing my fate with that of the
late Thomas Tucker, who had to sing for his supper, thus doubling the burdens of both himself
and his host.

"Snow is a hell of a thing," said Ross, by way of a foreword.  "It ain't, somehow, it seems
to me, salubrious.  I can stand water and mud and two inches below zero and a hundred and ten
in the shade and medium-sized cyclones, but this here fuzzy white stuff naturally gets me all
locoed.  I reckon the reason it rattles you is because it changes the look of things so much.
It's like you had a wife and left her in the morning with the same old blue cotton wrapper
on, and rides in of a night and runs across her all outfitted in a white silk evening frock,
waving an ostrich-feather fan, and monkeying with a posy of lily flowers.  Wouldn't it make
you look for your pocket compass?  You'd be liable to kiss her before you collected your presence
of mind."

By and by, the flood of Ross's talk was drawn up into the clouds (so it pleased me to fancy)
and there condensed into the finer snowflakes of thought; and we sat silent about the stove,
as good friends and bitter enemies will do.  I thought of Boss's preamble about the mysterious
influence upon man exerted by that ermine-lined monster that now covered our little world,
and knew he was right.

Of all the curious knickknacks, mysteries, puzzles, Indian gifts, rat-traps, and well-disguised
blessings that the gods chuck down to us from the Olympian peaks, the most disquieting and
evil-bringing is the snow.  By scientific analysis it is absolute beauty and purity--so, at
the beginning we look doubtfully at chemistry.

It falls upon the world, and lo! we live in another.  It hides in a night the old scars and
familiar places with which we have grown heart-sick or enamored.  So, as quietly as we can,
we hustle on our embroidered robes and hie us on Prince Camaralzaman's horse or in the reindeer
sleigh into the white country where the seven colors converge. This is when our fancy can overcome
the bane of it.

But in certain spots of the earth comes the snow-madness, made known by people turned wild
and distracted by the bewildering veil that has obscured the only world they know.  In the
cities, the white fairy who sets the brains of her dupes whirling by a wave of her wand is
cast for the comedy role.  Her diamond shoe buckles glitter like frost; with a pirouette she
invites the spotless carnival.

But in the waste places the snow is sardonic.  Sponging out the world of the outliers, it gives
no foothold on another sphere in return. It makes of the earth a firmament under foot; it leaves
us clawing and stumbling in space in an inimical fifth element whose evil outdoes its strangeness
and beauty, There Nature, low comedienne, plays her tricks on man.  Though she has put him
forth as her highest product, it appears that she has fashioned him with what seems almost
incredible carelessness and indexterity.  One-sided and without balance, with his two halves
unequally fashioned and joined, must he ever jog his eccentric way.  The snow falls, the darkness
caps it, and the ridiculous man-biped strays in accurate circles until he succumbs in the ruins
of his defective architecture.

In the throat of the thirsty the snow is vitriol.  In appearance as plausible as the breakfast
food of the angels, it is as hot in the mouth as ginger, increasing the pangs of the water-famished.
It is a derivative from water, air, and some cold, uncanny fire from which the caloric has
been extracted.  Good has been said of it; even the poets, crazed by its spell and shivering
in their attics under its touch, have indited permanent melodies commemorative of its beauty.

Still, to the saddest overcoated optimist it is a plague--a corroding plague that Pharaoh successfully
side-stepped.  It beneficently covers the wheat fields, swelling the crop--and the Flour Trust
gets us by the throat like a sudden quinsy.  It spreads the tail of its white kirtle over the
red seams of the rugged north--and the Alaskan short story is born.  Etiolated perfidy, it
shelters the mountain traveler burrowing from the icy air--and, melting to-morrow, drowns his
brother in the valley below.

At its worst it is lock and key and crucible, and the wand of Circe. When it corrals man in
lonely ranches, mountain cabins, and forest huts, the snow makes apes and tigers of the hardiest.
It turns the bosoms of weaker ones to glass, their tongues to infants' rattles, their hearts
to lawlessness and spleen.  It is not all from the isolation; the snow is not merely a blockader;
it is a Chemical Test. It is a good man who can show a reaction that is not chiefly composed
of a drachm or two of potash and magnesia, with traces of Adam, Ananias, Nebuchadnezzar, and
the fretful porcupine.

This is no story, you say; well, let it begin.

There was a knock at the door (is the opening not full of context and reminiscence oh, best
buyers of best sellers?).

We drew the latch, and in stumbled Etienne Girod (as he afterward named himself).  But just
then he was no more than a worm struggling for life, enveloped in a killing white chrysalis.

We dug down through snow, overcoats, mufflers, and waterproofs, and dragged forth a living
thing with a Van Dyck beard and marvellous diamond rings.  We put it through the approved curriculum
of snow-rubbing, hot milk, and teaspoonful doses of whiskey, working him up to a graduating
class entitled to a diploma of three fingers of rye in half a glassful of hot water.  One of
the ranch boys had already come from the quarters at Ross's bugle-like yell and kicked the
stranger's staggering pony to some sheltered corral where beasts were entertained.

Let a paragraphic biography of Girod intervene.

Etienne was an opera singer originally, we gathered; but adversity and the snow had made him
non compos vocis.  The adversity consisted of the stranded San Salvador Opera Company, a period
of hotel second-story work, and then a career as a professional palmist, jumping from town
to town.  For, like other professional palmists, every time he worked the Heart Line too strongly
he immediately moved along the Line of Least Resistance.  Though Etienne did not confide this
to us, we surmised that he had moved out into the dusk about twenty minutes ahead of a constable,
and had thus encountered the snow.  In his most sacred blue language he dilated upon the subject
of snow; for Etienne was Paris-born and loved the snow with the same passion that an orchid does.

"Mee-ser-rhable!" commented Etienne, and took another three fingers.

"Complete, cast-iron, pussy-footed, blank... blank!" said Ross, and followed suit.

"Rotten," said I.

The cook said nothing.  He stood in the door weighing our outburst; and insistently from behind
that frozen visage I got two messages (via the M. A. M wireless).  One was that George considered
our vituperation against the snow childish; the other was that George did not love Dagoes.
Inasmuch as Etienne was a Frenchman, I concluded I had the message wrong.  So I queried the
other: "Bright eyes, you don't really mean Dagoes, do you?" and over the wireless came three
deathly, psychic taps:  "Yes."  Then I reflected that to George all foreigners were probably
"Dagoes."  I had once known another camp cook who had thought Mons., Sig., and Millie (Trans-Mississippi
for Mlle.) were Italian given names; this cook used to marvel therefore at the paucity of Neo-Roman
precognomens, and therefore why not--

I have said that snow is a test of men.  For one day, two days, Etienne stood at the window,
Fletcherizing his finger nails and shrieking and moaning at the monotony.  To me, Etienne was
just about as unbearable as the snow; and so, seeking relief, I went out on the second day
to look at my horse, slipped on a stone, broke my collarbone, and thereafter underwent not
the snow test, but the test of flat-on-the-back.  A test that comes once too often for any
man to stand.

However, I bore up cheerfully.  I was now merely a spectator, and from my couch in the big
room I could lie and watch the human interplay with that detached, impassive, impersonal feeling
which French writers tell us is so valuable to the litterateur, and American writers to the
faro-dealer.

"I shall go crazy in this abominable, mee-ser-rhable place!" was Etienne's constant prediction.

"Never knew Mark Twain to bore me before," said Ross, over and over. He sat by the other window,
hour after hour, a box of Pittsburg stogies of the length, strength, and odor of a Pittsburg
graft scandal deposited on one side of him, and "Roughing It," "The Jumping Frog," and "Life
on the Mississippi" on the other.  For every chapter he lit a new stogy, puffing furiously.
This in time, gave him a recurrent premonition of cramps, gastritis, smoker's colic or whatever
it is they have in Pittsburg after a too deep indulgence in graft scandals. To fend off the
colic, Ross resorted time and again to Old Doctor Still's Amber-Colored U. S. A. Colic Cure.
Result, after forty-eight hours--nerves.

"Positive fact I never knew Mark Twain to make me tired before. Positive fact."  Ross slammed
"Roughing It" on the floor.  "When you're snowbound this-away you want tragedy, I guess.  Humor
just seems to bring out all your cussedness.  You read a man's poor, pitiful attempts to be
funny and it makes you so nervous you want to tear the book up, get out your bandana, and have
a good, long cry."

At the other end of the room, the Frenchman took his finger nails out of his mouth long enough
to exclaim:  "Humor!  Humor at such a time as thees!  My God, I shall go crazy in thees abominable--"

"Supper," announced George.

These meals were not the meals of Rabelais who said, "the great God makes the planets and we
make the platters neat."  By that time, the ranch-house meals were not affairs of gusto; they
were mental distraction, not bodily provender.  What they were to be later shall never be forgotten
by Ross or me or Etienne.

After supper, the stogies and finger nails began again.  My shoulder ached wretchedly, and
with half-closed eyes I tried to forget it by watching the deft movements of the stolid cook.

Suddenly I saw him cock his ear, like a dog.  Then, with a swift step, he moved to the door,
threw it open, and stood there.

The rest of us had heard nothing.

"What is it, George?" asked Ross.

The cook reached out his hand into the darkness alongside the jamb. With careful precision
he prodded something.  Then he made one careful step into the snow.  His back muscles bulged
a little under the arms as he stooped and lightly lifted a burden.  Another step inside the
door, which he shut methodically behind him, and he dumped the burden at a safe distance from
the fire.

He stood up and fixed us with a solemn eye.  None of us moved under that Orphic suspense until,

"A woman," remarked George.

Miss Willie Adams was her name.  Vocation, school-teacher.  Present avocation, getting  lost
in  the  snow.  Age, yum-yum (the Persian for twenty).  Take to the woods if you would describe
Miss Adams. A willow for grace; a hickory for fibre; a birch for the clear whiteness of her
skin; for eyes, the blue sky seen through treetops; the silk in cocoons for her hair; her voice,
the murmur of the evening June wind in the leaves; her mouth, the berries of the wintergreen;
fingers as light as ferns; her toe as small as a deer track.  General impression upon the dazed
beholder--you could not see the forest for the trees.

Psychology, with a capital P and the foot of a lynx, at this juncture stalks into the ranch
house.  Three men, a cook, a pretty young woman--all snowbound.  Count me out of it, as I did
not count, anyway. I never did, with women.  Count the cook out, if you like.  But note the
effect upon Ross and Etienne Girod.

Ross dumped Mark Twain in a trunk and locked the trunk.  Also, he discarded the Pittsburg scandals.
Also, he shaved off a three days' beard.

Etienne, being French, began on the beard first.  He pomaded it, from a little tube of grease
Hongroise in his vest pocket.   He combed it with a little aluminum comb from the same vest
pocket. He trimmed it with manicure scissors from the same vest pocket.  His light and Gallic
spirits underwent a sudden, miraculous change.  He hummed a blithe San Salvador Opera Company
tune; he grinned, smirked, bowed, pirouetted, twiddled, twaddled, twisted, and tooralooed.
Gayly, the notorious troubadour, could not have equalled Etienne.

Ross's method of advance was brusque, domineering.  "Little woman," he said, "you're welcome
here!"--and with what he thought subtle double meaning--"welcome to stay here as long as you
like, snow or no snow."

Miss Adams thanked him a little wildly, some of the wintergreen berries creeping into the birch
bark.  She looked around hurriedly as if seeking escape.  But there was none, save the kitchen
and the room allotted her.  She made an excuse and disappeared into her own room.

Later I, feigning sleep, heard the following:

"Mees Adams, I was almost to perish-die-of monotony w'en your fair and beautiful face appear
in thees mee-ser-rhable house."  I opened my starboard eye.  The beard was being curled furiously
around a finger, the Svengali eye was rolling, the chair was being hunched closer to the school-teacher's.
"I am French--you see--temperamental--nervous! I cannot endure thees dull hours in thees ranch
house; but--a woman comes!  Ah!"  The shoulders gave nine 'rahs and a tiger.  "What a difference!
All is light and gay; ever'ting smile w'en you smile. You have 'eart, beauty, grace.  My 'eart
comes back to me w'en I feel your 'eart.  So!"  He laid his hand upon his vest pocket.  From
this vantage point he suddenly snatched at the  school-teacher's own hand, "Ah! Mees Adams,
if I could only tell you how I ad--"

"Dinner," remarked George.  He was standing just behind the Frenchman's ear.  His eyes looked
straight into the school-teacher's eyes.  After thirty seconds of survey, his lips moved, deep
in the flinty, frozen maelstrom of his face:  "Dinner," he concluded, "will be ready in two
minutes."

Miss Adams jumped to her feet, relieved.  "I must get ready for dinner," she said brightly,
and went into her room.

Ross came in fifteen minutes late.  After the dishes had been cleaned away, I waited until
a propitious time when the room was temporarily ours alone, and told him what had happened.

He became so excited that he lit a stogy without thinking. "Yeller-hided, unwashed, palm-readin'
skunk," he said under his breath. "I'll shoot him full o' holes if he don't watch out--talkin'
that way to my wife!"

I gave a jump that set my collarbone back another week.  "Your wife!" I gasped.

"Well, I mean to make her that," he announced.

The air in the ranch house the rest of that day was tense with pent-up emotions, oh, best buyers
of best sellers.

Ross watched Miss Adams as a hawk does a hen; he watched Etienne as a hawk does a scarecrow,
Etienne watched Miss Adams as a weasel does a henhouse.  He paid no attention to Ross.

The condition of Miss Adams, in the role of sought-after, was feverish. Lately escaped from
the agony and long torture of the white cold, where for hours Nature had kept the little school-teacher's
vision locked in and turned upon herself, nobody knows through what profound feminine introspections
she had gone.  Now, suddenly cast among men, instead of finding relief and security, she beheld
herself plunged anew into other discomforts.  Even in her own room she could hear the loud
voices of her imposed suitors.  "I'll blow you full o' holes!" shouted Ross. "Witnesses," shrieked
Etienne, waving his hand at the cook and me.  She could not have known the previous harassed
condition of the men, fretting under indoor conditions.  All she knew was, that where she had
expected the frank freemasonry of the West, she found the subtle tangle of two men's minds,
bent upon exacting whatever romance there might be in her situation.

She tried to dodge Ross and the Frenchman by spells of nursing me. They also came over to help
nurse.  This combination aroused such a natural state of invalid cussedness on my part that
they were all forced to retire.  Once she did manage to whisper:  "I am so worried here.  I
don't know what to do."

To which I replied, gently, hitching up my shoulder, that I was a hunch-savant and that the
Eighth House under this sign, the Moon being in Virgo, showed that everything would turn out
all right.

But twenty minutes later I saw Etienne reading her palm and felt that perhaps I might have
to recast her horoscope, and try for a dark man coming with a bundle.

Toward sunset, Etienne left the house for a few moments and Ross, who had been sitting taciturn
and morose, having unlocked Mark Twain, made another dash.  It was typical Ross talk.

He stood in front of her and looked down majestically at that cool and perfect spot where Miss
Adams' forehead met the neat part in her fragrant hair.  First, however, he cast a desperate
glance at me.  I was in a profound slumber.

"Little woman," he began, "it's certainly tough for a man like me to see you bothered this
way.  You"--gulp--"you have been alone in this world too long.  You need a protector.  I might
say that at a time like this you need a protector the worst kind--a protector who would take
a three-ring delight in smashing the saffron-colored kisser off of any yeller-skinned skunk
that made himself obnoxious to you.  Hem. Hem.  I am a lonely man, Miss Adams.  I have so far
had to carry on my life without the"--gulp--"sweet radiance"--gulp--"of a woman around the
house.  I feel especially doggoned lonely at a time like this, when I am pretty near locoed
from havin' to stall indoors, and hence it was with delight I welcomed your first appearance
in this here shack. Since then I have been packed jam full of more different kinds of feelings,
ornery, mean, dizzy, and superb, than has fallen my way in years."

Miss Adams made a useless movement toward escape.  The Ross chin stuck firm.  "I don't want
to annoy you, Miss Adams, but, by heck, if it comes to that you'll have to be annoyed.  And
I'll have to have my say. This palm-ticklin' slob of a Frenchman ought to be kicked off the
place and if you'll say the word, off he goes.  But I don't want to do the wrong thing.  You've
got to show a preference.  I'm gettin' around to the point, Miss--Miss Willie, in my own brick
fashion.  I've stood about all I can stand these last two days and somethin's got to happen.
The suspense hereabouts is enough to hang a sheepherder. Miss Willie"--he lassooed her hand
by main force--"just say the word. You need somebody to take your part all your life long.
Will you mar--"

"Supper," remarked George, tersely, from the kitchen door.

Miss Adams hurried away.

Ross turned angrily.  "You--"

"I have been revolving it in my head," said George.

He brought the coffee pot forward heavily. Then bravely the big platter of pork and beans.
Then somberly the potatoes.  Then profoundly the biscuits.  "I have been revolving it in my
mind. There ain't no use waitin' any longer for Swengalley.  Might as well eat now."

From my excellent vantage-point on the couch I watched the progress of that meal.  Ross, muddled,
glowering, disappointed; Etienne, eternally blandishing, attentive, ogling; Miss Adams, nervous,
picking at her food, hesitant about answering questions, almost hysterical; now and then the
solid, flitting shadow of the cook, passing behind their backs like a Dreadnaught in a fog.

I used to own a clock which gurgled in its throat three minutes before it struck the hour. 

Such was the aristocratic distinction of Doña Inés, who could not help, until his father was some
vulgar coarseness that not a little distressed, but as Dona Ines was very present the commandments
of the Law of God and accurately observed rigorously, never stopped honor your father was,
but tried to honor him from afar and do not see often in order not to lose illusions.

In sum, the cacique don Andrés was the only person who by nature was at the height of Dona Ines
and was able to understand and admire. I say naturally, because the father Anselmo though nature was
understood, was also so helpful and so enlightened with the grace of God that no one understood
as the value and excellence of Dona Ines, and very worthy of its friendly service, taking with
it piadosísimos symposia, which was unleashed against the abominable corruption of our century and
against the blasphemous disbelief prevails the day and to be taking over all spirits.

III

Without a device I already submitted my characters, several of
the main characters to be included in this story, but I still have
two of which should prior to any news.

Don Paco, as stated, was an encyclopedic man of many skills and abilities;
the right hand of the chief and subordinate intelligence that made
the place the sovereign the chief will be respected and fulfilled.

  I become myself again--gay, light-'earted, 'appy.  I
address myself to mademoiselle; it passes the time.  That, m'sieu', is wot the women are for--pass
the time! Entertainment--like the music, like the wine!

"They appeal to the mood, the caprice, the temperamen'.  To play with thees woman, follow her
through her humor, pursue her--ah! that is the mos' delightful way to sen' the hours about
their business."

Ross banged the table.  "Shut up, you miserable yeller pup!" he roared. "I object to your pursuin'
anything or anybody in my house. Now, you listen to me, you--"  He picked up the box of stogies
and used it on the table as an emphasizer.  The noise of it awoke the attention of the girl
in the kitchen.  Unheeded, she crept into the room.  "I don't know anything about your French
ways of lovemakin' an' I don't care.  In my section of the country, it's the best man wins.
And I'm the best man here, and don't you forget it!  This girl's goin' to be mine.  There ain't
going to be any playing, or philandering, or palm reading about it.  I've made up my mind I'll
have this girl, and that settles it.  My word is the law in this neck o' the woods. She's mine,
and as soon as she says she's mine, you pull out."  The box made one final, tremendous punctuation
point.

Etienne's bravado was unruffled.  "Ah! that is no way to win a woman," he smiled, easily. 
"I make prophecy you will never win 'er that way. No.  Not thees woman.  She mus' be played
along an' then keessed, this charming, delicious little creature.  One kees!  An' then you
'ave her."  Again he displayed his unpleasant teeth.  "I make you a bet I will kees her--"

As a cheerful chronicler of deeds done well, it joys me to relate that the hand which fell
upon Etienne's amorous lips was not his own. There was one sudden sound, as of a mule kicking
a lath fence, and then--through the swinging doors of oblivion for Etienne.

I had seen this blow delivered.  It was an aloof, unstudied, almost absent-minded affair. 
I had thought the cook was rehearsing the proper method of turning a flapjack.

Silently, lost in thought, he stood there scratching his head.  Then he began rolling down
his sleeves.

"You'd better get your things on, Miss, and we'll get out of here," he decided.  "Wrap up warm."

I heard her heave a little sigh of relief as she went to get her cloak, sweater, and hat.

Ross jumped to his feet, and said:  "George, what are you goin' to do?"

George, who had been headed in my direction, slowly swivelled around and faced his employer.
"Bein' a camp cook, I ain't over-burdened with hosses," George enlightened us.  "Therefore,
I am going to try to borrow this feller's here."

For the first time in four days my soul gave a genuine cheer.  "If it's for Lochinvar purposes,
go as far as you like," I said, grandly.

The cook studied me a moment, as if trying to find an insult in my words.  "No," he replied.
"It's for mine and the young lady's purposes, and we'll go only three miles--to Hicksville.
Now let me tell you somethin', Ross." Suddenly I was confronted with the cook's chunky back
and I heard a low, curt, carrying voice shoot through the room at my host.  George had wheeled
just as Ross started to speak. "You're nutty.  That's what's the matter with you.  You can't
stand the snow. You're getting nervouser, and nuttier every day.  That and this Dago"--he jerked
a thumb at the half-dead Frenchman in the corner--"has got you to the point where I thought
I better horn in. I got to revolving it around in my mind and I seen if somethin' wasn't done,
and done soon, there'd be murder around here and maybe"--his head gave an imperceptible list
toward the girl's room--"worse."

He stopped, but he held up a stubby finger to keep any one else from speaking.  Then he plowed
slowly through the drift of his ideas. "About this here woman.  I know you, Ross, and I know
what you reely think about women.  If she hadn't happened in here durin' this here snow, you'd
never have given two thoughts to the whole woman question. Likewise, when the storm clears,
and you and the boys go hustlin' out, this here whole business 'll clear out of your head and
you won't think of a skirt again until Kingdom Come.  Just because o' this snow here, don't
forget you're living in the selfsame world you was in four days ago.  And you're the same man,
too.  Now, what's the use o' getting all snarled up over four days of stickin' in the house?
That there's what I been revolvin' in my mind and this here's the decision I've come to."

He plodded to the door and shouted to one of the ranch hands to saddle my horse.

Ross lit a stogy and stood thoughtful in the middle of the room. In a country of slaves not
one or the kinds of high morality, the customs are, on the contrary, laxity, and reign, moreover,
strange ideas, twisted, monstrous, so to speak, for the honor and virtue of women. Especially
not believed, or expected, either, that the mixed race are able to save your modesty, to be
honest or no legitimate wives. In the opinion of the vulgar, born predestined to concubines
of the men race.

There was an embarrassing silence as Ross and I thought solemnly of a foodless week.

"If you just use hoss sense," concluded George, "and don't go for to hurt my feelin's, all
I want to do is to take this young gal down to Hicksville; and then I'll head back here and
cook fer you."

The horse and Miss Adams arrived simultaneously, both of them very serious and quiet.  The
horse because he knew what he had before him in that weather; the girl because of what she
had left behind.

Then all at once I awoke to a realization of what the cook was doing. "My God, man!" I cried,
"aren't you afraid to go out in that snow?"

Behind my back I heard Ross mutter, "Not him."

George lifted the girl daintily up behind the saddle, drew on his gloves, put his foot in the
stirrup, and turned to inspect me leisurely.

As I passed slowly in his review, I saw in my mind's eye the algebraic equation of Snow, the
equals sign, and the answer in the man before me.

"Snow is my last name," said George.  He swung into the saddle and they started cautiously
out into the darkening swirl of fresh new currency just issuing from the Snowdrop Mint. 

Is the seed of Strychnos nux vomica, of the family of apocíneas, Juss .-- pentandria diginia,
Linn .-- Some practitioners have not hesitated to bring together in one chapter and a same
exposition, the bean of St. Ignatius, nux vomica and strychnine. One was the appreciation
of snow, which I have so humbly tried here to render; (2) was a collarbone, of which I am extra
careful; (3) was a memory of what it is to eat very extremely bad food for a week; and (4)
was the cause of (3) a little note delivered at the end of the week and hand-painted in blue
pencil on a sheet of meat paper.

"I cannot come back there to that there job.  Mrs. Snow say no, George. I been revolvin' it
in my mind; considerin' circumstances she's right."

