"Saturday! Why, come to think, I did know it. I wonder what's the matter with me lately? Certainly
I knew it. Ain't we all getting ready for her? Well, I must be going now. But I'll be on hand
when she comes, old man!"

Late Friday afternoon another gray veteran tramped over from his cabin a mile or so away, and
said the boys wanted to have a little gaiety and a good time Saturday night, if Henry thought
she wouldn't be too tired after her journey to be kept up.

"Tired? She tired! Oh, hear the man! Joe, YOU know she'd sit up six weeks to please any one
of you!"

When Joe heard that there was a letter, he asked to have it read, and the loving messages in
it for him broke the old fellow all up; but he said he was such an old wreck that THAT would
happen to him if she only just mentioned his name. "Lord, we miss her so!" he said.

Saturday afternoon I found I was taking out my watch pretty often. Henry noticed it, and said,
with a startled look:

"You don't think she ought to be here soon, do you?"

I felt caught, and a little embarrassed; but I laughed, and said it was a habit of mine when
I was in a state of expenctancy. But he didn't seem quite satisfied; and from that time on
he began to show uneasiness. Four times he walked me up the road to a point whence we could
see a long distance; and there he would stand, shading his eyes with his hand, and looking.
Several times he said:

"I'm getting worried, I'm getting right down worried. I know she's not due till about nine
o'clock, and yet something seems to be trying to warn me that something's happened. You don't
think anything has happened, do you?"

I began to get pretty thoroughly ashamed of him for his childishness; and at last, when he
repeated that imploring question still another time, I lost my patience for the moment, and
spoke pretty brutally to him. It seemed to shrivel him up and cow him; and he looked so wounded
and so humble after that, that I detested myself for having done the cruel and unnecessary
thing. And so I was glad when Charley, another veteran, arrived toward the edge of the evening,
and nestled up to Henry to hear the letter read, and talked over the preparations for the welcome.
Charley fetched out one hearty speech after another, and did his best to drive away his friend's
bodings and apprehensions.

"Anything HAPPENED to her? Henry, that's pure nonsense. There isn't anything going to happen
to her; just make your mind easy as to that. What did the letter say? Said she was well, didn't
it? And said she'd be here by nine o'clock, didn't it? Did you ever know her to fail of her
word? Why, you know you never did. Well, then, don't you fret; she'll BE here, and that's absolutely
certain, and as sure as you are born. Come, now, let's get to decorating--not much time left."

Pretty soon Tom and Joe arrived, and then all hands set about adoring the house with flowers.
Toward nine the three miners said that as they had brought their instruments they might as
well tune up, for the boys and girls would soon be arriving now, and hungry for a good, old-fashioned
break-down. A fiddle, a banjo, and a clarinet--these were the instruments. The trio took their
places side by side, and began to play some rattling dance-music, and beat time with their
big boots.

It was getting very close to nine. Henry was standing in the door with his eyes directed up
the road, his body swaying to the torture of his mental distress. He had been made to drink
his wife's health and safety several times, and now Tom shouted:

"All hands stand by! One more drink, and she's here!"

Joe brought the glasses on a waiter, and served the party. I reached for one of the two remaining
glasses, but Joe growled under his breath:

"Drop that! Take the other."

Which I did. Henry was served last. He had hardly swallowed his drink when the clock began
to strike. He listened till it finished, his face growing pale and paler; then he said:

"Boys, I'm sick with fear. Help me--I want to lie down!"

They helped him to the sofa. He began to nestle and drowse, but presently spoke like one talking
in his sleep, and said: "Did I hear horses' feet? Have they come?"

One of the veterans answered, close to his ear: "It was Jimmy Parish come to say the party
got delayed, but they're right up the road a piece, and coming along. Her horse is lame, but
she'll be here in half an hour."

"Oh, I'm SO thankful nothing has happened!"

He was asleep almost before the words were out of his mouth. In a moment those handy men had
his clothes off, and had tucked him into his bed in the chamber where I had washed my hands.
They closed the door and came back. Then they seemed preparing to leave; but I said: "Please
don't go, gentlemen. She won't know me; I am a stranger."

They glanced at each other. Then Joe said:

"She? Poor thing, she's been dead nineteen years!"

"Dead?"

"That or worse. She went to see her folks half a year after she was married, and on her way
back, on a Saturday evening, the Indians captured her within five miles of this place, and
she's never been heard of since."

"And he lost his mind in consequence?"

"Never has been sane an hour since. But he only gets bad when that time of year comes round.
Then we begin to drop in here, three days before she's due, to encourage him up, and ask if
he's heard from her, and Saturday we all come and fix up the house with flowers, and get everything
ready for a dance. We've done it every year for nineteen years. The first Saturday there was
twenty-seven of us, without counting the girls; there's only three of us now, and the girls
are gone. We drug him to sleep, or he would go wild; then he's all right for another year--thinks
she's with him till the last three or four days come round; then he begins to look for her,
and gets out his poor old letter, and we come and ask him to read it to us. Lord, she was a
darling!"

A HELPLESS SITUATION

Once or twice a year I get a letter of a certain pattern, a pattern that never materially changes,
in form and substance, yet I cannot get used to that letter--it always astonishes me. It affects
me as the locomotive always affects me: I saw to myself, "I have seen you a thousand times,
you always look the same way, yet you are always a wonder, and you are always impossible; to
contrive you is clearly beyond human genius--you can't exist, you don't exist, yet here you are!"

I have a letter of that kind by me, a very old one. I yearn to print it, and where is the harm?
The writer of it is dead years ago, no doubt, and if I conceal her name and address--her this-world
address--I am sure her shade will not mind. And with it I wish to print the answer which I
wrote at the time but probably did not send. If it went--which is not likely--it went in the
form of a copy, for I find the original still here, pigeonholed with the said letter. To that
kind of letters we all write answers which we do not send, fearing to hurt where we have no
desire to hurt; I have done it many a time, and this is doubtless a case of the sort.

THE LETTER

X------, California, JUNE 3, 1879.

Mr. S. L. Clemens, HARTFORD, CONN.:

