"Alas!" said Isabella, "the purity of your own heart prevents your seeing the depravity of
others.  Manfred, your lord, that impious man--"

"Hold," said Hippolita; "you must not in my presence, young lady, mention Manfred with disrespect:
he is my lord and husband, and--"

"Will not long be so," said Isabella, "if his wicked purposes can be carried into execution."

"This language amazes me," said Hippolita.  "Your feeling, Isabella, is warm; but until this
hour I never knew it betray you into intemperance.  What deed of Manfred authorises you to
treat him as a murderer, an assassin?"

"Thou virtuous, and too credulous Princess!" replied Isabella; "it is not thy life he aims
at--it is to separate himself from thee! to divorce thee! to--"

"To divorce me!"  "To divorce my mother!" cried Hippolita and Matilda at once.

"Yes," said Isabella; "and to complete his crime, he meditates--I cannot speak it!"

"What can surpass what thou hast already uttered?" said Matilda.

Hippolita was silent.  Grief choked her speech; and the recollection of Manfred's late ambiguous
discourses confirmed what she heard.

"Excellent, dear lady! madam! mother!" cried Isabella, flinging herself at Hippolita's feet
in a transport of passion; "trust me, believe me, I will die a thousand deaths sooner than
consent to injure you, than yield to so odious--oh!--"

"This is too much!" cried Hippolita:  "What crimes does one crime suggest!  Rise, dear Isabella;
I do not doubt your virtue.  Oh! Matilda, this stroke is too heavy for thee! weep not, my child;
and not a murmur, I charge thee.  Remember, he is thy father still!"

"But you are my mother too," said Matilda fervently; "and you are virtuous, you are guiltless!--Oh!
must not I, must not I complain?"

"You must not," said Hippolita--"come, all will yet be well. Manfred, in the agony for the
loss of thy brother, knew not what he said; perhaps Isabella misunderstood him; his heart is
good--and, my child, thou knowest not all!  There is a destiny hangs over us; the hand of Providence
is stretched out; oh! could I but save thee from the wreck!  Yes," continued she in a firmer
tone, "perhaps the sacrifice of myself may atone for all; I will go and offer myself to this
divorce--it boots not what becomes of me.  I will withdraw into the neighbouring monastery,
and waste the remainder of life in prayers and tears for my child and--the Prince!"

"Thou art as much too good for this world," said Isabella, "as Manfred is execrable; but think
not, lady, that thy weakness shall determine for me.  I swear, hear me all ye angels--"

"Stop, I adjure thee," cried Hippolita:  "remember thou dost not depend on thyself; thou hast
a father."

"My father is too pious, too noble," interrupted Isabella, "to command an impious deed.  But
should he command it; can a father enjoin a cursed act?  I was contracted to the son, can I
wed the father?  No, madam, no; force should not drag me to Manfred's hated bed.  I loathe
him, I abhor him:  divine and human laws forbid--and my friend, my dearest Matilda! would I
wound her tender soul by injuring her adored mother? my own mother--I never have known another" -

"Oh! she is the mother of both!" cried Matilda:  "can we, can we, Isabella, adore her too much?"

"My lovely children," said the touched Hippolita, "your tenderness overpowers me--but I must
not give way to it.  It is not ours to make election for ourselves:  heaven, our fathers, and
our husbands must decide for us.  Have patience until you hear what Manfred and Frederic have
determined.  If the Marquis accepts Matilda's hand, I know she will readily obey.  Heaven may
interpose and prevent the rest.  What means my child?" continued she, seeing Matilda fall at
her feet with a flood of speechless tears--"But no; answer me not, my daughter:  I must not
hear a word against the pleasure of thy father."

"Oh! doubt not my obedience, my dreadful obedience to him and to you!" said Matilda.  "But
can I, most respected of women, can I experience all this tenderness, this world of goodness,
and conceal a thought from the best of mothers?"

"What art thou going to utter?" said Isabella trembling. "Recollect thyself, Matilda."

"No, Isabella," said the Princess, "I should not deserve this incomparable parent, if the inmost
recesses of my soul harboured a thought without her permission--nay, I have offended her; I
have suffered a passion to enter my heart without her avowal--but here I disclaim it; here
I vow to heaven and her--"

"My child! my child;" said Hippolita, "what words are these! what new calamities has fate in
store for us!  Thou, a passion?  Thou, in this hour of destruction--"

"Oh! I see all my guilt!" said Matilda.  "I abhor myself, if I cost my mother a pang.  She
is the dearest thing I have on earth--Oh! I will never, never behold him more!"

"Isabella," said Hippolita, "thou art conscious to this unhappy secret, whatever it is.  Speak!"

"What!" cried Matilda, "have I so forfeited my mother's love, that she will not permit me even
to speak my own guilt? oh! wretched, wretched Matilda!"

"Thou art too cruel," said Isabella to Hippolita:  "canst thou behold this anguish of a virtuous
mind, and not commiserate it?"

"Not pity my child!" said Hippolita, catching Matilda in her arms-- "Oh! I know she is good,
she is all virtue, all tenderness, and duty.  I do forgive thee, my excellent, my only hope!"

The princesses then revealed to Hippolita their mutual inclination for Theodore, and the purpose
of Isabella to resign him to Matilda. Hippolita blamed their imprudence, and showed them the
improbability that either father would consent to bestow his heiress on so poor a man, though
nobly born.  Some comfort it gave her to find their passion of so recent a date, and that Theodore
had had but little cause to suspect it in either.  She strictly enjoined them to avoid all
correspondence with him.  This Matilda fervently promised:  but Isabella, who flattered herself
that she meant no more than to promote his union with her friend, could not determine to avoid
him; and made no reply.

"I will go to the convent," said Hippolita, "and order new masses to be said for a deliverance
from these calamities."

"Oh! my mother," said Matilda, "you mean to quit us:  you mean to take sanctuary, and to give
my father an opportunity of pursuing his fatal intention.  Alas! on my knees I supplicate you
to forbear; will you leave me a prey to Frederic?  I will follow you to the convent."

"Be at peace, my child," said Hippolita:  "I will return instantly. I will never abandon thee,
until I know it is the will of heaven, and for thy benefit."

"Do not deceive me," said Matilda.  "I will not marry Frederic until thou commandest it.  Alas!
what will become of me?"

"Why that exclamation?" said Hippolita.  "I have promised thee to return--"

"Ah! my mother," replied Matilda, "stay and save me from myself.  A frown from thee can do
more than all my father's severity.  I have given away my heart, and you alone can make me
recall it."

"No more," said Hippolita; "thou must not relapse, Matilda."

"I can quit Theodore," said she, "but must I wed another? let me attend thee to the altar,
and shut myself from the world for ever."

"Thy fate depends on thy father," said Hippolita; "I have ill- bestowed my tenderness, if it
has taught thee to revere aught beyond him.  Adieu! my child:  I go to pray for thee."

