  The bear
stood upon his head with the utmost gravity, and the wizened apes played all kinds of amusing
tricks with two gipsy boys who seemed to be their masters, and fought with tiny swords, and
fired off guns, and went through a regular soldier's drill just like the King's own bodyguard.
In fact the gipsies were a great success.

But the funniest part of the whole morning's entertainment, was undoubtedly the dancing of
the little Dwarf.  When he stumbled into the arena, waddling on his crooked legs and wagging
his huge misshapen head from side to side, the children went off into a loud shout of delight,
and the Infanta herself laughed so much that the Camerera was obliged to remind her that although
there were many precedents in Spain for a King's daughter weeping before her equals, there
were none for a Princess of the blood royal making so merry before those who were her inferiors
in birth. "So I finally have a home after I had been hanging around long enough as a homeless Vagabond, "he
wrote to his sister under the 27th April 1895th Böcklin was sixty-seven and a half years old
when the day of his vagabond life were numbered. The villa looks from afar on the slopes of
Fiesole, just below the town and to the right, So the east; further to the right next to the
villa later acquired the Son, and between two, immediately above, the villa with the red tower (Torre
Rossa), where the spouse Winter 1893 had lived. The area does not belong to the nearby Fiesole,
but still to San Domenico, a lower down suburbs of Florence. Strangers who enter the site
were believed, Böcklin had inspiration from this estate to his pictures and thought, as we
learn to understand Böcklin art possible. In fact, was the master of many of the most beautiful
thing he had carried around for decades in and painted, the age in his estate combined. A private
road runs along the hillside to the house, right between trees waving to a wide terrace projecting
a marble pillar with a bust like the statue in the "Sacred Grove". As there receives the shadow
of the trees the visitor who entering through the gate.

Böcklin has felt the benefits of home deep and immediately began the
decoration.

In this way, the "lintels," and created the paintings in Pompeian Art in a loggia. Also a number
of easel paintings is in the last five years yet been started and completed. The allegations
are of course most gloomy nature, war (Plate 95), plague, melancholy. It is as if he was evil,
which was already on Europe contracted, noticed and would have predicted the disaster. There was
not quite sure of cheerful plants. He celebrated the love and still has very end once again a
Triptych created, which he could give Schiller's verses on the way: Hark! the grove resounds
with songs - and the brook ripples clear. - Room is in the smallest Cabins - For a happy, loving
couple.

In the third year of stay in your own villa Böcklin became a Seventy,
and during the sixtieth birthday had been celebrated even in small
circles, was the seventieth Rise to some stunning large rallies in
Germany and Switzerland, and the authorities his native city and the
country decided to honors in the democratic community rare.

The survey were the exhibitions in Basel and Berlin, both about one could unite third of the
entire work. As astonished admirers who Böcklin decades had admired it fell silent old men, the two
people next to the old sneering peers had gone hand in hand.

These honors also awakened an echo in the second home, which brought the foreign Fiesolaner Pittore
a torchlight procession. The management of the Uffizi had Böcklin repeated earlier since 1894 asked
for a self-portrait.

Once again, the artist must have taken in the period following a start. But he who in 1896 seen
in the spring of 1898 was startled at his appearance. The legs were stiff and speaking was difficult
for him. In January 1900 came another influenza.

But his body was tough almost a year was.


'He should drink poppy-juice, and go to sleep for a thousand years,' said the great scarlet
Lilies, and they grew quite hot and angry.

'He is a perfect horror!' screamed the Cactus.  'Why, he is twisted and stumpy, and his head
is completely out of proportion with his legs.  Really he makes me feel prickly all over, and
if he comes near me I will sting him with my thorns.'

'And he has actually got one of my best blooms,' exclaimed the White Rose-Tree.  'I gave it
to the Infanta this morning myself, as a birthday present, and he has stolen it from her.'
And she called out:  'Thief, thief, thief!' at the top of her voice.

Even the red Geraniums, who did not usually give themselves airs, and were known to have a
great many poor relations themselves, curled up in disgust when they saw him, and when the
Violets meekly remarked that though he was certainly extremely plain, still he could not help
it, they retorted with a good deal of justice that that was his chief defect, and that there
was no reason why one should admire a person because he was incurable; and, indeed, some of
the Violets themselves felt that the ugliness of the little Dwarf was almost ostentatious,
and that he would have shown much better taste if he had looked sad, or at least pensive, instead
of jumping about merrily, and throwing himself into such grotesque and silly attitudes.

As for the old Sundial, who was an extremely remarkable individual, and had once told the time
of day to no less a person than the Emperor Charles V. himself, he was so taken aback by the
little Dwarf's appearance, that he almost forgot to mark two whole minutes with his long shadowy
finger, and could not help saying to the great milk-white Peacock, who was sunning herself
on the balustrade, that every one knew that the children of Kings were Kings, and that the
children of charcoal-burners were charcoal- burners, and that it was absurd to pretend that
it wasn't so; a statement with which the Peacock entirely agreed, and indeed screamed out,
'Certainly, certainly,' in such a loud, harsh voice, that the gold-fish who lived in the basin
of the cool splashing fountain put their heads out of the water, and asked the huge stone Tritons
what on earth was the matter.

But somehow the Birds liked him.  They had seen him often in the forest, dancing about like
an elf after the eddying leaves, or crouched up in the hollow of some old oak-tree, sharing
his nuts with the squirrels.  They did not mind his being ugly, a bit. (See map, "Oceania"). There are consistently low coral and almost without exception
Lagoon islands, but size and condition of the reefs and lagoons are very different. The drought-and
low-water coral bottom with a monotonous and scanty vegetation (coconut trees, Pandanus) are only
in the western islands of Tahiti and some crops (bread fruit, Bananas, Arum, pineapple) was introduced.
The land animals (rats, some shore birds, very few Insects) show a similar uniformity, whereas
the marine animals (dolphins, sea birds, Turtles, fish, mollusks, including especially pearl
oysters, crustaceans, etc.) as well often as varied. The climate is healthy and refreshing,
the change of seasons is less regular than in other archipelagos. The trade wind (from SE. And NO.)
Is the predominant Wind, but is interrupted often by the westerly winds and calms, rain and fog are not
uncommon. Dividing the archipelago into five groups: a central main group, including Rangiroa
(Rairoa) Fakarawa, Anaa, Makemo and Hao, a north side group, including Oahe, Raroia, Ahangatu,
Fakaina, Disappointmentinsel, Tatakotorou, Pukaruha, Natupe, a southern Side group, including Hereheretue,
Duke of Gloucester Island, Tematangi (Bligh), Mururoa, Actaeon- (Amphitrite) group, Marutea that Mangarewagruppe
and the Pitcairn group, including even the Easter Island comes with Sala y Gomez. Thereafter, the
total area calculated on about 1100 square kilometers (20 SQM). The Islands are, with the exception
of the Pitcairn Group, Easter Island and Sala y Gomez under the French Protection, ie a total
area of ​​1000 square kilometers (18 SQM) with (1885) 5500 inhabitants, including 49 Europeans, most
of which are on Anaa (sd) are located. The inhabitants (see table "Oceanic peoples," Figure 28)
are Polynesians and all over the Tahiti similar. They live a kind of wandering, by pulling in families
or small tribes from island to island and collect what they offer of food. By nature, they are
characterized by honesty, reliability and of chastity, this is their persistent and courageous,
but also cruel warriors. Of body big and strong excel built, the Tahitians in strength and agility,
but this much darker, and very dirty (especially women) are often of striking ugliness. Fruit of
the coconut palm and pandanus, fish, turtles, crabs, etc., are their food. On the eastern islands
there are also cannibalistic. A narrow, woven mat from Belt is almost their only clothes that
tattooing, running rough, her only Jewelry. The inhabitants of the western islands are already
at the end of the 18th
  'Look at
his hunched back, and his crooked legs,' and they began to titter.

But the little Dwarf knew nothing of all this.  He liked the birds and the lizards immensely,
and thought that the flowers were the most marvellous things in the whole world, except of
course the Infanta, but then she had given him the beautiful white rose, and she loved him,
and that made a great difference.  How he wished that he had gone back with her!  She would
have put him on her right hand, and smiled at him, and he would have never left her side, but
would have made her his playmate, and taught her all kinds of delightful tricks.  For though
he had never been in a palace before, he knew a great many wonderful things.  He could make
little cages out of rushes for the grasshoppers to sing in, and fashion the long jointed bamboo
into the pipe that Pan loves to hear.  He knew the cry of every bird, and could call the starlings
from the tree-top, or the heron from the mere.  He knew the trail of every animal, and could
track the hare by its delicate footprints, and the boar by the trampled leaves.  All the wild-
dances he knew, the mad dance in red raiment with the autumn, the light dance in blue sandals
over the corn, the dance with white snow-wreaths in winter, and the blossom-dance through the
orchards in spring.  He knew where the wood-pigeons built their nests, and once when a fowler
had snared the parent birds, he had brought up the young ones himself, and had built a little
dovecot for them in the cleft of a pollard elm.  They were quite tame, and used to feed out
of his hands every morning.  She would like them, and the rabbits that scurried about in the
long fern, and the jays with their steely feathers and black bills, and the hedgehogs that
could curl themselves up into prickly balls, and the great wise tortoises that crawled slowly
about, shaking their heads and nibbling at the young leaves.  Yes, she must certainly come
to the forest and play with him.  He would give her his own little bed, and would watch outside
the window till dawn, to see that the wild horned cattle did not harm her, nor the gaunt wolves
creep too near the hut.  And at dawn he would tap at the shutters and wake her, and they would
go out and dance together all the day long.  It was really not a bit lonely in the forest.
Sometimes a Bishop rode through on his white mule, reading out of a painted book.  Sometimes
in their green velvet caps, and their jerkins of tanned deerskin, the falconers passed by,
with hooded hawks on their wrists.  At vintage-time came the grape-treaders, with purple hands
and feet, wreathed with glossy ivy and carrying dripping skins of wine; and the charcoal-burners
sat round their huge braziers at night, watching the dry logs charring slowly in the fire,
and roasting chestnuts in the ashes, and the robbers came out of their caves and made merry
with them. She was one of those women, the sight of a Man's heart
is still. She had something of the truth of the elements, and some of the gloss and the pathetic
loneliness of the great works of art. Life and experience they had purified and collected,
as some other dull and lower. Nevertheless, they wasted themselves; predetermined for pleasure,
she enjoyed all the more so the more a sense of being full desire to approached her with seductive
lines. She moved into the larger world, as if it is would be born, and the outer side of their
existence was no secret, it was said by her in all lounges and coffee houses, what they enraptured,
she stressed, charmed, held in suspense was the friends, especially Borsati and Hadwiger, a
mystery, and the obvious as the hidden gave rise to fears of all kinds, especially since her
health is not was the best. As she once wanted to bring Hadwiger to his senses, she assured him,
that they hardly even know what she would drive, perhaps it was the death, every thought the
death drive them wild into life. Years ago she was dancing at a country wedding, while in the
village began to burn the houses, women and men were hurried away, but they had a Geiger tossed a
gold piece, and that he played on and with her dancers still swung until the firelight blazed
close to the windows.

So they chatted with tasting of a hat, and Hadwiger went to her because she is causing so empty
spoke to him in the interval between two dances. Then she called him again, in the interval
between dances, joined sister on her heart and cherished his discreet compassion in unintended cruelty.

One
day she gave the role of Marianne in Goethe's siblings.

Lamberg was in the theater, and it seemed as if speaking from the scene down to him alone.
A certain amount of drag on Fatigue, blurred the loveliness of the character and gave her an unwelcome
train of melancholy. In an annoyed Lamberg. After the performance he expected Franziska at the stage
entrance. Her guilty smile made his lecture obsolete. There was something sad about its like
on a winter rose, which must shun the open window. Lamberg took her to his House hosted it,
and his unexpected heat took Franziska. It was a beautiful summer night, they walked in the
garden, joking and philosophizing. Finally she told him that the Armansperg Prince, Heir, owner of
a hundred million fortune, Mr Günderau on, Weilburg Castle Gamming to have stopped her hand.
His relatives, disconsolate over put this decision, every effort to prevent him from running,
and she herself was through their machinations and intrigue sentenced to involuntary suffering.
Lamberg mentioned that he knew by sight the prince, one of the Armanspergschen goods was far
from his country home in the mountains.
  The strange
silent horsemen that galloped so swiftly through the long glades without making any noise,
seemed to him like those terrible phantoms of whom he had heard the charcoal- burners speaking--the
Comprachos, who hunt only at night, and if they meet a man, turn him into a hind, and chase
him.  But he thought of the pretty Infanta, and took courage.  He wanted to find her alone,
and to tell her that he too loved her.  Perhaps she was in the room beyond.

He ran across the soft Moorish carpets, and opened the door.  No! She was not here either.
The room was quite empty.

The Infanta!  It was a monster, the most grotesque monster he had ever beheld.  Not properly
shaped, as all other people were, but hunchbacked, and crooked-limbed, with huge lolling head
and mane of black hair.  The little Dwarf frowned, and the monster frowned also.  He laughed,
and it laughed with him, and held its hands to its sides, just as he himself was doing.  He
made it a mocking bow, and it returned him a low reverence.  He went towards it, and it came
to meet him, copying each step that he made, and stopping when he stopped himself. Why they do not speak of her? he thought,
and it is adjustable or cold? What they call entertainment or that heart smoothness, it makes
me often so strange?

He stopped in front of the golden mirrors are based on his rounds
in recent weeks Lamberg was returned, and watched in sullen loneliness
the miracle of old.

It was a circular disc of weary gold, she was with raised arms of the Figure of a goddess taken
standing on a deliciously crafted turtle. The back the disc was the figure of a young man,
apparently a Narzissos, in the casual fine Art was sitting on a rock, two long rods in the right
arm and barely a hint of just gazed with a few strokes, the outlines of his image engraved
water. Low on the edge was Greek letters in the word Leäna carved, which might be the name of the courtesan,
that once the mirror had owned as property.

The whole work of art was about two hand lengths high.

Cajetan got up, went to Hadwiger and put his arm on jovial gesture on his shoulder. "The female
figure is unique here," he said. "You really bears, each individual
Muscle of her body with.

Do not you, Henry? Here it is in the ease Movement, how to hold something, the possession of
the forces increased. "

"It is a noble form," confirmed Lamberg, "to measure and how the old
things have worked, you have only the appearance turtle.

What subtlety! Since no missing the train Nature but they are mainly the idea of ​​a pedestal. "

"One is convinced that the load weighs not for that tank," said Cajetan.
Me, "seems at times," interjected Borsati, "that the Face of Aphrodite
by a pale Gloss of the color of the other cast takes off. "

Lamberg
replied that he had also been observed. "But I do not know just what
this, the Time has inflicted, "he continued.  Why had his father not killed him, rather
than sell him to his shame?  The hot tears poured down his cheeks, and he tore the white rose
to pieces. The sprawling monster did the same, and scattered the faint petals in the air. 
It grovelled on the ground, and, when he looked at it, it watched him with a face drawn with
pain.  He crept away, lest he should see it, and covered his eyes with his hands.  He crawled,
like some wounded thing, into the shadow, and lay there moaning.

