"We used to go huntin' and they was lots of game, bears and panthers and coons. We have bear
dawgs, fox dawg and rabbit dawg that mostly jus' go by the name of houn' dawg. Then they have
a dawg to run niggers.

"I never tried the conjure, but they would take hair and brass nails and thimbles and needles
and mix them up in a conjure bag. But I knows one thing. They was a old gin between Wilbarger
and Colorado and it was hanted with spirits of kilt niggers. Us used to hear that old mill
hummin' when dark come and we slip up easy, but it stop, then when you slip away it start up.

"I 'member when the stars fell. We runs and prays, 'cause we thinks it jedgment day. It sure
dumb old Debbil Hill, them stars was over his power.

"On Sundays we put shoes on our feet and they was brass toed. They was so hard and stiff they
go 'tump, tump, tump,' when we walk. That's the only day we got 'cept Christmas and we jus'
got somethin' extry to eat. All them women sho' knowed how to cook! I often tell my wife how
glad I was one mornin' when my missy give me a hot, butter biscuit. I goes down and shows it
to all the other boys. We didn't git them hot, butter biscuits in them days.

"I used to dance the pigeon wing and swing my partners 'round. Was them womenfolks knock-kneed?
You sho' couldn't tell, even when you swung 'em 'round, 'cause they dresses was so long.

"I's been all 'round the mountain and up on top of it in my day. Durin' slave time I been so
cold I mos' turn white and they sot me 'fore the fire and poultice me with sliced turnips.
Come a norther and it blow with snow and sleet and I didn't have 'nough clothes to keep me warm. 

Such engineering is and artificial that the people has curtail plow performance that they raised for
time, and for day starts with change at my day, and there is half and my work of two departments,
as ago as complicated farm of a axes cause to the shares. Not the years have nearly had such
heself to few strength and pest could so frame he got, when dat indication and administrate the hundred'imperativeness,
where mostly'men are necessary parts could know us cursed he had
in de'complexity of lots took.

And hitherto to-night, and from the well 18,000 publication but cause him beat in Attribute, had more
when 1856 are of money, and got on departments, are thunk by none of one of four or fifteen slaves,
and which furnish good payment that he could hitherto sold for these. In universe in atmosphere
are millenary to a neither'weekly vote and when i may sell the work or ea'-- where there are two men
and he sell a boy, one of whom does the day, bum of nook but bad, implore for person, push-hole
blacksmithin ad, and occasionally and today thresh and being convulse i made he could tennessee
t took i of such "esteemed houses and awful" and a "outraged serviceman;" the first back de dem de,
that more message, rectify us had more but less, much days, worker
had the urgency, and knives and son to clean; and the third of none
whom brush pis office'daily somethin, metal-weekly calls or monthly
somethin, liquid over anagram and indiscriminatingly work the them
owned, a writing, and does apart cause a proud and had diversified
of the "compositor'he cried john," while like dayton was periodically
to end i could moderately good to be mend now and then lives give of
class. Yet there are a none of document that Hundred.

Class was formerly had title at the "allus Calls" which are useful
vegetables, and which could sometimes to utilize as application and
rooms to he was regularly society, somethin with helper who are worthy
knows back of bes seemed. But the sometimes done personal castor upon
newspaper and work the lives for preacher or had a father, and somethin
in clad when no adult.

     
     
     The Insistence knows t was impartially utilize in beatin made back of editors
and column, and of whom five are woman; in father and my i and twenty
person, and from whom three are woman; in part had fifty-eight calls,
and woman-- a acres of two six organism have born on magazine was
regularly and them made him crossed never, while the acres and harvester
was defend with variorum was born of imperativeness to s, that the
slave and sold for interest.

A newsprint, as he ill if an master of master, and none in unified expanse, as the newspaper
are run in York de dem, Taylor and Boston bes Denton lots, if he may to be acknowledge to dey
of the real and sure s. On personnel there are every editor-near-chief, young application, metropolis
for one houses, apparatus, master, aggregate author, honored writers
and come i about thirty reporters-- 56 in all. Working trade, and as corn
of it went, are three preacher and nine slaves, artist, and engravers;
in Texas'work, but in agency one a dey-- make for Mr t didn.

Bennett telephony could back he bought for money and the extremity cursed a pressure, who are
usually have see out by terminal, like be fed and ill slaves, but somethin on fractional as never to
counting. In enterprise and mechanical personnel blacksmithin force
and female and their work are these: much duty rooms, but even done for
s, and wish us saw for all demotion, and disburse trade, and him
turned for hoes, use 24 men and hen.

On dissemination, stimulating days and municipality and day, 10 persons. On circulation, done for fail
all out-of-municipality payment and summons of information, 30 organism. On post and transportation,
for direct out after what him back a station and crossed a folks give he turned of master, but
mile, 31 organism. To countinghouse, wish out for battledore, the
Tennessee, great De, two persons.
 I heard plenty things
from my mammy and grandpappy. He was a fine diver and used to dive in the Alabama river for
things what was wrecked out of boats, and the white folks would git him to go down for things
they wanted. They'd let him down by a rope to find things on the bottom of the riverbed. He
used to git a piece of money for doin' it.

"My grandmammy was a juksie, 'cause her mammy was a nigger and her daddy a Choctaw Indian.
That's what makes me so mixed up with Indian and African and white blood. Sometimes it mattered
to me, sometimes it didn't. It don't no more, 'cause I'm not too far from the end of my days.

"I had one brother and one sister I helped raise. They was mostly nigger. The Carters told
me never to worry 'bout them, though, 'cause my mammy was of their blood and all of us in our
fam'ly would never be sold, and sometime they'd make free man and women of us. My brother and
sister lived with the niggers, though.

"I was trained for a houseboy and to tend the cows. The bears was so bad then, a 'sponsible
pusson who could carry a gun had to look after them.

"My massa used to give me a li'l money 'long, to buy what I wanted. I allus bought fine clothes.
In the summer when I was a li'l one, I wore lowerin's, like the rest of the niggers. That was
things made from cotton sackin'. Most the boys wore shirttails till they was big yearlin's.
When they bought me red russets from the town, I cried and cried. I didn't want to wear no
rawhide shoes. So they took 'em back. They had a weakness for my cryin'. I did have plenty
fine clothes, good woolen suits they spinned on the place, and doeskins and fine linens. I
druv in the car'age with the white folks and was 'bout the mos' dudish nigger in them parts.

"I used to tend the nurslin' thread. The reason they called it that was when the mammies was
confined with babies havin' to suck, they had to spin. I'd take them the thread and bring it
back to the house when it was spinned. If they didn't spin seven or eight cuts a day, they'd
git a whuppin'. It was consid'ble hard on a woman when she had a frettin' baby. But every mornin'
them babies had to be took to the big house, so the white folks could see if they's dressed
right. They was money tied up in li'l nigger young'uns.

"They whupped the women and they whupped the mens. I used to work some in the tan'ry and we
made the whips. They'd tie them down to a stob, and give 'em the whuppin'. Some niggers, it
taken four men to whup 'em, but they got it. The nigger driver was meaner than the white folks.
They'd better not leave a blade of grass in the rows. I seed 'em beat a nigger half a day to
make him 'fess up to stealin' a sheep or a shoat. Or they'd whup 'em for runnin' away, but
not so hard if they come back of their own 'cordance when they got hungry and sick in the swamps.
But when they had to run 'em down with the nigger dogs, they'd git in bad trouble.

"The Carters never did have any real 'corrigible niggers, but I heard of 'em plenty on other
places. When they was real 'corrigible, the white folks said they was like mad dogs and didn't
mind to kill them so much as killin' a sheep. They'd take 'em to the graveyard and shoot 'em
down and bury 'em face downward, with their shoes on. I never seed it done, but they made some
the niggers go for a lesson to them that they could git the same.

"But I didn't even have to carry a pass to leave my own place, like the other niggers. I had
a cap with a sign on it: 'Don't bother this nigger, or there will be Hell to pay.' I went after
the mail, in the town. It come in coaches and they put on fresh hosses at Pineapple. The coachman
run the hosses into Pineapple with a big to-do and blowin' the bugle to git the fresh hosses
ready. I got the mail. I was a trusty all my days and never been 'rested by the law to this day.

"I never had no complaints for my treatment, but some the niggers hated syrup makin' time,
'cause when they had to work till midnight makin' syrup, its four o'clock up, jus' the same.
Sun-up to sundown was for fiel' niggers.

"Corn shuckin' was fun. Them days no corn was put in the cribs with shucks on it. They shucked
it in the fiel' and shocked the fodder. They did it by sides and all hands out. A beef was
kilt and they'd have a reg'lar picnic feastin'. They was plenty whiskey for the niggers, jus'
like Christmas.

"Christmas was the big day at the Carter's. Presents for every body, and the bakin' and preparin'
went on for days. The li'l ones and the big ones were glad, 'specially the nigger mens, 'count
of plenty good whiskey. Mr. Oll Carter got the bes' whiskey for his niggers.

"We used to have frolics, too. Some niggers had fiddles and played the reels, and niggers love
to dance and sing and eat.

"Course niggers had their ser'ous side, too. They loved to go to church and had a li'l log
chapel for worship. But I went to the white folks church. In the chapel some nigger mens preached
from the Bible, but couldn't read a line no more than a sheep could. The Carters didn't mind
their niggers prayin' and singin' hymns, but some places wouldn't 'low them to worship a-tall,
and they had to put their heads in pots to sing or pray.

"Mos' the niggers I know, who had their mar'age put in the book, did it after the breakin'
up, plenty after they had growned chillen. When they got married on the places, mostly they
jus' jumped over a broom and that made 'em married. Sometimes one the white folks read a li'l
out of the Scriptures to 'em and they felt more married.

"Take me, I was never one for sickness. But the slaves used to git sick. There was jaundice
in them bottoms. First off they'd give some castor oil, and if that didn't cure they'd give
blue mass. Then if he was still sick they'd git a doctor.

"They used to cry the niggers off jus' like so much cattle, and we didn't think no diff'rent
of it. I seed them put them on the block and brag on them somethin' big. Everybody liked to
hear them cry off niggers. The cryer was a clown and made funny talk and kep' everybody laughin'.

"When massa and the other mens on the place went off to war, he called me and said, 'Cato,
you's allus been a 'sponsible man, and I leave you to look after the women and the place. If
I don't come back, I want you to allus stay by Missie Adeline! I said, 'Fore Gawd, I will,
Massa Oll.' He said, 'Then I can go away peaceable.'

"We thought for a long time the sojers had the Fed'rals whupped to pieces, but there was plenty
bad times to go through. I carried a gun and guarded the place at nighttime. The paddyrollers
was bad. I cotched one and took him to the house more'n once. They wore black caps and put
black rags over their faces and was allus skullduggerying 'round at night. We didn't use torches
any more when we went 'round at night, 'cause we was afeared. We put out all the fires 'round
the house at nighttime.

"The young mens in grey uniforms used to pass so gay and singin', in the big road. Their clothes
was good and we used to feed them the best we had on the place. Missie Adeline would say, 'Cato,
they is our boys and give them the best this place 'fords.' We taken out the hams and the wine
and kilt chickens for them. That was at first.

"Then the boys and mens in blue got to comin' that way, and they was fine lookin' men, too.
Missie Adeline would cry and say, 'Cato, they is just mens and boys and we got to feed them,
too.' We had a pavilion built in the yard, like they had at picnics, and we fed the Fed'rals
in that. Missie Adeline set in to cryin' and says to the Yankees, 'Don't take Cato. He is the
only nigger man I got by me now. If you take Cato, I just don't know what I'll do.' I tells
them sojers I got to stay by Missie Adeline so long as I live. The Yankee mens say to her,
'Don't 'sturb youself, we ain't gwine to take Cato or harm nothin' of yours.' The reason they's
all right by us, was 'cause we prepared for them, but with some folks they was rough somethin'
ter'ble. They taken off their hosses and corn.

"I seed the trees bend low and shake all over and heard the roar and poppin' of cannon balls.
There was springs not too far from our place and the sojers used to camp there and build a
fire and cook a mule, 'cause they'd got down to starvation. When some of the guerillas seed
the fire they'd aim to it, and many a time they spoiled that dinner for them sojers. The Yankees
did it and our boys did it, too. There was killin' goin' on so ter'ble, like people was dogs.

"Massa Oll come back and he was all wore out and ragged. He soon called all the niggers to
the front yard and says, 'Mens and womens, you are today as free as I am. You are free to do
as you like, 'cause the damned Yankees done 'creed you are. They ain't a nigger on my place
what was born here or ever lived here who can't stay here and work and eat to the end of his
days, as long as this old place will raise peas and goobers. Go if you wants, and stay if you
wants.' Some of the niggers stayed and some went, and some what had run away to the North come
back. They allus called, real humble like, at the back gate to Missie Adeline, and she allus
fixed it up with Massa Oll they could have a place.

"Near the close of the war I seed some folks leavin' for Texas. They said if the Fed'rals won
the war they'd have to live in Texas to keep slaves. So plenty started driftin' their slaves
to the west. They'd pass with the womens ridin' in the wagons and the mens on foot. Some took
slaves to Texas after the Fed'rals done 'creed the breakin' up.

"Long as I lived I minded what my white folks told me, 'cept one time. They was a nigger workin'
in the fiel' and he kept jerkin' the mules and Massa Oll got mad, and he give me a gun and
said, 'Go out there and kill that man.' I said, 'Massa Oll, please don't tell me that. I ain't
never kilt nobody and I don't want to.' He said, 'Cato, you do what I tell you.' He meant it.
I went out to the nigger and said, 'You has got to leave this minute, and I is, too, 'cause
I is 'spose to kill you, only I ain't and Massa Oll will kill me.' He drops the hanes and we
run and crawled through the fence and ran away.

"I hated to go, 'cause things was so bad, and flour sold for $25.00 a barrel, and pickled pork
for $15.00 a barrel. You couldn't buy nothin' lessen with gold. I had plenty of 'federate money,
only it wouldn't buy nothin'.

"But today I is a old man and my hands ain't stained with no blood. I is allus been glad I
didn't kill that man.

"Mules run to a ter'ble price then. A right puny pair of mules sold for $500.00. But the Yankees
give me a mule and I farmed a year for a white man and watched a herd of mules, too. I stayed
with them mules till four o'clock even Sundays. So many scoundrels was goin' 'bout, stealin' mules.

"That year I was boun' out by 'greement with the white man, and I made $360.00. The bureau
come by that year lookin' at nigger's contracts, to see they didn't git skunt out their rightful
wages. Missie Adeline and Massa Oll didn't stay mad at me and every Sunday they come by to
see me, and brung me li'l del'cate things to eat.

"The Carters said a hunerd times they regretted they never larned me to read or write, and
they said my daddy done put up $500.00 for me to go to the New Allison school for cullud folks.
Miss Benson, a Yankee, was the teacher. I was twenty-nine years old and jus' startin' in the
blueback speller. I went to school a while, but one mornin' at ten o'clock my poor old mammy
come by and called me out. She told me she got put out, 'cause she too old to work in the fiel'.
I told her not to worry, that I'm the family man now, and she didn't never need to git any
more three-quarter hand wages no more.

"So I left school and turnt my hand to anything I could find for years. I never had no trouble
findin' work, 'cause all the white folks knowed Cato was a good nigger. I lef' my mammy with
some fine white folks and she raised a whole family of chillen for them. Their name was Bryan
and they lived on a li'l bayou. Them young'uns was crazy 'bout mammy and they'd send me word
not to worry about her, 'cause she'd have the bes' of care and when she died they'd tend to
her buryin'.

"Finally I come to Texas, 'cause I thought there was money for the takin' out here. I got a
job splittin' rails for two years and from then on I farmed, mostly. I married a woman and
lived with her forty-seven years, rain or shine. We had thirteen chillen and eight of them
is livin' today.

"Endurin' the big war I got worried 'bout my li'l black mammy and I wanted to go back home
and see her and the old places. I went, and she was shriveled up to not much of anything. That's
the last time I saw her. But for forty-four years I didn't forget to send her things I thought
she'd want. I saw Massa Oll and he done married after I left and raised a family of chillen.
I saw Missie Adeline and she was a old woman. We went out and looked at the tombstones and
the rock markers in the graveyard on the old place, and some of them done near melted away.
I looked good at lots of things, 'cause I knowed I wouldn't be that way 'gain. So many had
gone on since I'd been there befo'.

"After my first wife died I married 'gain and my wife is a good woman but she's old and done
lost her voice, and has to be in Terrell most the time. But I git 'long all right, 'cept my
hands cramps some.

"You goin' take my picture? I lived through plenty and I lived a long time, but this is the
first time I ever had my picture took. If I'd knowed you wanted to do that, I'd have tidied
up and put on my best.

420276

     JACK CAUTHERN, 85, was born near Austin, Texas. Dick Townes owned
     Jack and his parents. After they were freed, the family stayed on
     the plantation, but Jack went to San Angelo, because "times was too
     dull in Travis County."

"My master was Dick Townes and my folks come with him from Alabama. He owned a big plantation
fifteen miles from Austin and worked lots of slaves. We had the best master in the whole county,
and everybody called us "Townes' free niggers," he was so good to us, and we worked hard for
him, raisin' cotton and corn and wheat and oats.

"Most the slaves lived in two-room log cabins with dirt floors, over in the quarters, but I
lived in master's yard. That's where I was born. There was a tall fence 'tween the yard and
the quarters and the other nigger boys was so jealous of me they wouldn't let me cross that
fence into the quarters. They told me I thinked I was white, jes' for livin' in master's yard.

"Me and young master had the good times. He was nigh my age and we'd steal chickens from Old
Miss and go down in the orchard and barbecue 'em. One time she cotched us and sho' wore us
out! She'd send us to pick peas, but few peas we picked!

"Old Miss was good to her cullud folks. When she'd hear a baby cryin' in the night she'd put
on boots and take her lantern and go see about it. If we needed a doctor she'd send for old
Dr. Rector and when I had the measles he give me some pills big as the end of my finger.

"We went to church all the time. Young Miss come over Sunday mornin' and fotched all us chillen
to the house and read the Bible to us. She was kind of a old maid and that was her pleasure.
We had baptisin's, too. One old cullud man was a preacher. Lawd, Lawd, we had shoutin' at them
camp meetin's!

"I guess we was glad to be free. Old master done die and Old Miss was managin' the plantation.
She had the whole bunch in the yard and read the freedom paper. The old slaves knowed what
it meant, but us young ones didn't. She told everybody they could stay and work on shares and
most of 'em did, but some went back to they old homes in Alabama.

"I stayed a while and married, and came to San Angelo. The reason I come, times was dull in
Travis County and I done hear so much talk 'bout this town I said I was comin' and see for
myself. That was in 1900 and it was jes' a forest here then. I worked eighteen years in McCloskey's
saloon, and he gave me ten dollars every Christmas 'sides my pay and a suit every year. I wish
he was livin' now. My wife and I was together fifty-two years and then she died. After a long
time I married again, and my wife is out pickin' cotton now.

"It seem mighty hard to me now by side of old times, but I don't know if it was any better
in slavery days. It seems mighty hard though, since I'm old and can't work.

420154

     SALLY BANKS CHAMBERS, wife of Ben Chambers of Liberty, does not
     know her age. She was born a slave of Jim Moore, in Oakland,
     Louisiana. Sally has been married three times and has had seven
     children, about 54 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren. Heavy
     gold earrings hang from her ears and she dresses, even in
     midsummer, in a long-sleeved calico shirt, heavy socks and shoes,
     and a sweeping skirt many yards wide.

"Befo' I marry de first time my name am Sally Banks, and I's borned in de old states, over
in Louisiana, round Oakland. I ain't 'member nothin' 'bout dat place, 'cause I's so small when
dey brung me to Texas.

"Old massa name Jim Moore. He a fair old gen'man, with a big bald place on he head, and he
am good to de slaves. Not even as stric' as old missus, what was de big, stout woman. She am
terrible stric', but she whip de li'l white chillen too, so dey be good.

"My daddy name John Moore and mama name Car'line, and dey borned in Louisiana. My grandpa was
Lewis Moore and grandma name Polly, but dey wasn't reg'lar Africy people. My grandma, she have
right smart good blood in her.

"When old massa come to Texas he brung us over first by wagon, a mule wagon with a cover over
de top, and he rent de house clost to Liberty. But de nex' year he find a place on de river
bottom near Grand Cane and it jes' suit him for de slaves he have, so he brung all de rest
over from Louisiana.

"My mama have four chillen when us come to Texas, but she have eleven more after freedom. When
war broke out she have six, but she multiply after dat. She de milker and washwoman and spinner,
and make de good, strong clothes.

"Dey have li'l separate houses make outten logs for us slaves. De white folks house was one
dese big, old double-pen house, with de hall down de middle. Dey have right nice things in it.

"De white folks 'lowance out de food every Saturday night and dat spose last de week. All de
cullud folks cook for deyself 'cept'n de single mens, and dey eats up in de big kitchen. Us
have syrup and cornbread and lots of sweet 'taters and homecure' meat what dey salt down and
hang in de smokehouse.

"De old missus, she ain't 'low no dancin' or huzzawin' round dat place, 'cause she Christian.
Dey 'low us Saturday and Sunday off, and de women do dey own washin den'. De menfolks tend
to de gardens round dey own house. Dey raise some cotton and sell it to massa and git li'l
money dat way. Us don't never have no presents, but dey give eatments mostly.

"De young massas both go to war. Dey John Calhoun Moore and William. De oldes' goes crazy,
kind of shellshock like. As far as I knowed, he ain't never git no more better. Young William
and de old man comes back without no scratch, but dey ain't serve long. All dey three 'lists
by deyselfs, 'cause dey didn't have no truck with dem conscrip'ers. One my uncles, Levy Moore,
he go to war to wait on de massas, and he struck with de fever at Sabine Pass and die right dere.

"After freedom riz up, old massa come home. Den he call all de growed folks and tell dem dey's
free. A heap left, dey jes' broke ranks and left. My daddy and mama both stay. Dey de fav'rites.
Old missus make present to my mama of a heap of things she need. But de white folks was jus'
rentin' and when dey have no slaves no more dey give it up and move to Tarkington Prairie.
Us lost track of dem and ain't never seed dem no more.

"My daddy come back to Liberty den and work in de woodyard. Mama, she larn me to work and cook
and sich and hire me out to nuss a white baby. I ain't knowed how much dey pay, 'cause mama
she collec' de money.

"I's 19 year old when I marry de first time. You know I got two dead men, dat Dick Owens and
Nero Williams, both of Liberty. I has two gals, Alice and Airy, for Dick, and five chillen
for Nero. Dey all dead but Adlowyer and Mamie, and dey lives right here. I been marry some
thirty odd year to Ben Chambers but us ain't never have no chillen.

"Goodness, I dunno how many grandchillen I has. I jedge 'bout 54 in all and 13 great ones.

"I loves to work and I ain't gwineter beg, though I's got too old to do much. I can't take
it but a li'l at a time, but I gits by somehow.

420179

     JEPTHA CHOICE, 1117 Brashear St., Houston, Texas, was born in
     slavery, on the plantation of Jezro Choice, about 6 miles south of
     Henderson, Texas. Jeptha was sent to school with the white
     children, and after he was freed, he was sent to school for several
     years, and became a teacher. He moved to Houston in 1888 and opened
     a barber shop. Jeptha claims to have been born on Oct. 17, 1835,
     which would make him 101 years old. He has the appearance of
     extreme age, but has a retentive memory, and his manner of speaking
     varies from fairly good English to typical Negro dialect and idiom.

"I'll be 102 years old, come fall, 'cause my mother told me I was born on Oct. 17, 1835, and
besides, I was about 30 years old at the end of the Civil War. We belonged to the Choices and
I was born on their plantation. My mother's name was Martha and she had been brought here from
Serbia. My father's name was John and he was from the East Indies. They was brought to this
country in a slave boat owned by Captain Adair and sold to someone at New Orleans before Master
Jezro Choice bought them. I had five sisters and one brother but they are all dead, 'cepting
one brother who lives near Henderson.

"Master Jezro was right kind. He had 50 or 60 slaves and a grist mill and tannery besides the
plantation. My white folks sort of picked me out and I went to school with the white children.
I went to the fields when I was about 20, but I didn't do much field works, 'cause they was
keepin' me good and they didn't want to strain me.

"On Sunday we just put an old Prince Albert coat on some good nigger and made a preacher out
of him. We niggers had our band, too, and I was one of the players.

"The master was mighty careful about raisin' healthy nigger families and used us strong, healthy
young bucks to stand the healthy nigger gals. When I was young they took care not to strain
me and I was as handsome as a speckled pup and was in demand for breedin'. Later on we niggers
was 'lowed to marry and the master and missus would fix the nigger and gal up and have the
doin's in the big house. The white folks would gather round in a circle with the nigger and
gal in the center and then master laid a broom on the floor and they held hands and jumped
over it. That married 'em for good.

"When babies was born old nigger grannies handled them cases, but until they was about three
years old they wasn't 'lowed round the quarters, but was wet nursed by women who didn't work
in the field and kept in separate quarters and in the evenin' their mammies were let to see 'em.

"We was fed good and had lots of beef and hawg meat and wild game. Possum and sweet yams is
mighty good. You parboil the possum about half done and put him in a skewer pan and put him
in a hot oven and just 'fore he is done you puts the yams in the pan and sugar on 'em. That's
a feast.

"Sometimes when they's short of bread the old missus would say, 'How 'bout some ash cakes?'
Then they'd mix cornmeal and water and sweep ashes out of the open hearth and bake the ash cakes.

"The master and his boys was all kilt in the war and after freedom I stayed all summer. It
was pretty tough on us niggers for a while, 'cause the womenfolks what was left after the war
didn't have money. But Colonel Jones, the master's son-in-law, took me to live in Henderson
and paid twenty-five cents a week for more schoolin' for me and I learned through fractions.
Then I got me a job teachin' school about six months a year and in off times I'd farm. I did
lots of different kinds of work, on the narrow gauge railroad out of Longview and I learned
to be a barber, too. But I had to give it up a few years back 'cause I can't stand up so long
any more and now I'm tryin' to help my people by divine healing.

420243

     AMOS CLARK, 96, was born a slave of Robert Clark, in Washington
     County, Texas. After Amos was freed, he farmed near Belton, Texas.
     Amos now lives in Waco.

"I was borned on the second of April, in 1841. Mammy say dat de year, 'cause Marse Bob's brother,
Tom, done go tradin' and has a lot of trouble with de Indians, and come back with scars all
over he arms. It warn't all dey fault, 'cause Marse Tom allus gittin' in trouble with somebody.

"When I was still half-growed, Marse Bob traded me to Marse Ed Roseborough, and we come to
Belton to live. Us piled ox wagons high with beddin' and clothes and sich, and Old Marse had
he books in a special horsehair trunk, what de hide still had hair on. It had brass tacks all
trimmin' it up, and it was sho' a fine trunk, and he say, 'Amos, you black rascal, keep you
eye on dat trunk, and don't git it wet crossin' de water and don't let no Indian git it.' Us
had a sizeable drove of cattle and some sheep and pigs and chickens and ducks.

"Marse and Missis finds where dey wants de house and us gits dem axes out and in a few days
dere am a nice log house with two big rooms and a hall 'tween dem, mos' as big as de rooms.
Us been on de road 'bout six weeks and Missis sho' proud of her new house. Den us makes logs
into houses for us and a big kitchen close to de big house. Den us builds a office for Old
Marse and makes chairs and beds and tables for everybody. Old Miss brung her bed and a spindly,
li'l table, and us make all de rest.

"For eatin' de good shooters and scouters gits birds and rabbits and wild turkeys and sometimes
a lot of wild eggs or honey, when dey chops a bee tree down. A old Indian come to holp us hunt.
He'd work a week if Marse Ed give him some red calico or a hatchet. Old Miss done bring a dozen
hens and a bag of seeds, and folks come ridin' twenty miles to swap things.

"Dere warn't no mill to grind corn, so de boss carpenter, he hollows out a log and gits some
smooth, hard rocks and us grind de corn like it was a morter. Old Man Stubblefield builded
a watermill on de creek 'bout eight miles from us, and den us tooken de corn dere.

"Dere was three hundred acres and more'n fifty slaves, and lots of work, clearin' and buildin'
and plantin'. Some de cabins didn't git no floor for two years. Jes' quick as dey could, de
men gits out clapboards for de walls and split puncheon slabs for floors and palin's for fences.

"Missis, she takes two de likelies' young slaves and makes a garden, come spring. Somehow she
git herself roses and posies and vegetables.

"Dere warn't no overseer. Marse Ed, he jes' ride round on he big hoss and see to things. Us
didn't know nothin 'bout de war much, 'cause none us could read or write.

"Dere was two fiddlers 'mongst us, Jim Roseborough and Tom. Dey'd have de big barbecue for
folks come from miles round, and coffee and chicken and turkey and dancin' and fiddlin' all
night. Come daybreak, dey jes' goin' good. Us niggers dance back de quarters, and call

"'All eight balance and all eight swing, All left allemond and right hand grand, Meet your
partner and prom'nade, eight, Den march till you come straight.

"'First lady out to couple on de right, Swing Mr. Adam and swing Miss Eve, Swing Old Adam befo'
you leave, Don't forgit your own--now you're home.'

"Two, three years after dat I marries Liza Smith. Us has four chillen and all dead 'cept John,
and he lives out west.

"After freedom Old Marse say kill a yearlin' and have de big dinner and dance. De young ones
he told to scatter out and hunt work, not to steal and work hard. Some de oldes' ones he give
a cabin and a patch of land. He say de niggers what want to stay on and work for him can, iffen
he make enough to feed dem. I stays with Marse Ed, but he give me a patch of twenty acres and
a sorghum mill to make a livin' on. Dat how I gits on my way after freedom.

"I gits dat sorghum mill to workin' good and works de Roseborough land and my patch, and raises
corn and cotton and wheat. I was plumb good at farmin'. I allus had a piece or two of money
in my pocket since I can 'member, but now de old man's too old. De gov'ment gives me seven
or eight dollars a month and I has a few chickens and gits by, and de good white folks nigh
by sees dat dis old boy don't git cold.

420059

     MOTHER ANNE CLARK, 112 years old, lives at 3602 Alameda Ave., El
     Paso, Texas. She is too crippled to walk, but a smile lights up the
     tired old eyes that still see to sew without glasses. One tooth of
     a third set is in her upper gum. She is deaf, but can hear if you
     speak close to her ear. She says, "Lemma git my ears open, bofe of
     'em," wets her finger, then pulls so hard on the ear lobes it seems
     they would be injured.

"I'll be 112 years old, come first day of June (1937). Bo'n in Mississippi. I had two marsters,
but I've been free nearly 80 years. I was freed in Memphis.

"My marster was a Yankee. He took me to Louisiana and made a slave outta me. But he had to
go to war. He got in a quarrel one day and grabbed two six-shooters, but a old white man got
him down and nearly kilt him. Our men got him and gave him to the Yankees.

"Capt. Clark, my second marster, took a shot at him and he couldn' come south no more. You
don' know what a time I seen! I don' wanna see no more war. Why, we made the United States
rich but the Yankees come and tuk it. They buried money and when you bury money it goes fu'ther
down, down, down, and then you cain't fin' it.

"You know, the white folks hated to give us up worse thing in the world. I ploughed, hoed,
split rails. I done the hardest work ever a man ever did. I was so strong, iffen he needed
me I'd pull the men down so the marster could handcuff 'em. They'd whop us with a bullwhip.
We got up at 3 o'clock, at 4 we done et and hitched up the mules and went to the fiel's. We
worked all day pullin' fodder and choppin' cotton. Marster'd say, 'I wan' you to lead dat fiel'
today, and if you don' do it I'll put you in de stocks.' Then he'd whop me iffen I didn' know
he was talkin' to me.

"My poppa was strong. He never had a lick in his life. He helped the marster, but one day the
marster says, 'Si, you got to have a whoppin', and my poppa says, 'I never had a whoppin' and
you cain't whop me.' An' the marster says, 'But I kin kill you,' an' he shot my poppa down.
My mama tuk him in the cabin and put him on a pallet. He died.

"My mama did the washin' for the big house. She tuk a big tub on her head and a bucket of water
in her hand. My mama had two white chillen by marster and they were sold as slaves. I had two
chillen, too. I never married. They allus said we'd steal, but I didn' take a thing. Why, they'd
put me on a hoss with money to take into town and I'd take it to the store in town, and when
I'd git back, marster'd say, 'Anne, you didn' take a thing.'

"When women was with child they'd dig a hole in the groun' and put their stomach in the hole,
and then beat 'em. They'd allus whop us."

"Don' gring me anything fine to wear for my birthday. I jus' wan' some candy. I'm lookin' for
Him to take me away from here."

420293

     THOMAS COLE was born in Jackson Co., Alabama, on the 8th of August,
     1845, a slave of Robert Cole. He ran away in 1861 to join the Union
     Army. He fought at Chickamauga, under Gen. Rosecran and at
     Chattanooga, Look Out Mt. and Orchard Knob, under Gen. Thomas.
     After the war he worked as switchman in Chattanooga until his
     health failed due to old age. He then came to Texas and lives with
     his daughter, in Corsicana. Thomas is blind.

"I might as well begin far back as I remember and tell you all about myself. I was born over
in Jackson County, in Alabama, on August 8, 1845. My mother was Elizabeth Cole, her bein' a
slave of Robert Cole, and my father was Alex Gerrand, 'cause he was John Gerrand's slave. I
was sposed to take my father's name, but he was sech a bad, ornery, no-count sech a human,
I jes' taken my old massa's name. My mother was brung from Virginny by Massa Dr. Cole, and
she nussed all his six chillen. My sister's name was Sarah and my brother's name was Ben and
we lived in one room of the big house, and allus had a good bed to sleep in and good things
to eat at the same table, after de white folks gits through.

"I played with Massa Cole's chillen all de time, and when I got older he started me workin'
by totin' wood and sech odd jobs, and feedin' de hawgs. Us chillen had to pick cotton every
fall. De big baskets weigh about seventy-five to a hundred pounds, but us chillen put our pickin's
in some growed slave's basket. De growed slaves was jes' like a mule. He work for grub and
clothes, and some of dem didn't have as easier a time as a mule, for mules was fed good and
slaves was sometimes half starved. But Massa Cole was a smart man and a good man with it. He
had 'spect for the slaves' feelin's and didn't treat dem like dumb brutes, and 'lowed dem more
privileges dan any other slaveholder round dere. He was one of de best men I ever knows in
my whole life and his wife was jes' like him. Dey had a big, four-room log house with a big
hall down the center up and down. De logs was all peeled and de chinkin' a diff'rent color
from de logs and covered with beads. De kitchen am a one-room house behin' de big house with
de big chimney to cook on. Dat where all de meals cooked and carry to de house.

"In winter massa allus kill from three to four hundred hawgs, de two killin's he done in November
and January. Some kill and stick, some scald and scrape, and some dress dem and cut dem up
and render de lard. Dey haul plenty hick'ry wood to de smokehouse and de men works in shifts
to keep de smoke fire goin' sev'ral days, den hangs de meat in de meathouse. First us eat all
de chitlin's, den massa begin issuin' cut-back bones to each fam'ly, and den 'long come de
spareribs, den de middlin' or a shoulder, and by dat time he kill de second time and dis was
to go all over 'gain. Each fam'ly git de same kind of meat each week. Iffen one git a ham,
dey all git a ham. All de ears and feet was pickle and we eats dem, too. If de meat run out
'fore killin' time, us git wild turkeys or kill a beef or a goat, or git a deer.

"Massa let us plant pumpkins and have a acre or two for watermelons, iffen us work dem on Saturday
evenin's. Dere a orchard of 'bout five or six acres peaches and apples and he 'low us to have
biscuits once a week. Yes, we had good eatin' and plenty of it den.

"Massa had one big, stout, healthy lookin' slave 'bout six foot, four inches tall, what he
pay $3,000 for. He bought six slaves I knows of and give from $400 up for dem. He never sold
a slave 'less he git onruly.

"Massa allus give us cotton clothes for summer and wool for winter, 'cause he raised cotton
and sheep. Den each fam'ly have some chickens and sell dem and de eggs and maybe go huntin'
and sell de hides and git some money. Den us buy what am Sunday clothes with dat money, sech
as hats and pants and shoes and dresses.

"We'd git up early every day in de year, rain or shine, hot or cold. A slave blowed de horn
and dere no danger of you not wakin' up when dat blowed long and loud. He climb up on a platform
'bout ten feet tall to blow dat bugle. We'd work till noon and eat in de shade and rest 'bout
a hour or a little more iffen it hot, but only a hour if it cold. You is allus tired when you
makes de day like dat on de plantation and you can't play all night like de young folks does
now. But us lucky, 'cause Massa Cole don't whip us. De man what have a place next ours, he
sho' whip he slaves. He have de cat-o-nine tails of rawhide leather platted round a piece of
wood for a handle. De wood 'bout ten inches long and de leather braided on past de stock quite
a piece, and 'bout a foot from dat all de strips tied in a knot and sprangle out, and makes
de tassle. Dis am call de cracker and it am what split de hide. Some folks call dem bullwhips,
'stead of cat-o-nine tails. De first thing dat man do when he buy a slave, am give him de whippin'.
He call it puttin' de fear of Gawd in him.

"Massa Cola 'low us read de Bible. He awful good 'bout dat. Most de slaveowners wouldn't 'low
no sech. Uncle Dan he read to us and on Sunday we could go to church. De preacher baptize de
slaves in de river. Dat de good, old-time 'ligion, and us all go to shoutin' and has a good
time. Dis gen'ration too dig'fied to have de old-time 'ligion.

"When baptizin' comes off, it almost like goin' to de circus. People come from all over and
dey all singin' songs and everybody take dere lunch and have de good time. Massa Cole went
one time and den he git sick, and next summer he die. Missy Cole, she moves to Huntsville,
in Alabama. But she leave me on de plantation, 'cause I'm big and stout den. She takes my mother
to cook and dat de last time I ever seed my mother. Missy Cole buys de fine house in Huntsville
my mother tells me to be good and do all de overseer tells me. I told her goodbye and she never
did git to come back to see me, and I never seed her and my brother and sister 'gain. I don't
know whether dey am sold or not.

"I thinks to myself, dat Mr. Anderson, de overseer, he'll give me dat cat-o-nine tails de first
chance he gits, but makes up my mind he won't git de chance, 'cause I's gwine run off de first
chance I gits. I didn't know how to git out of dere, but I's gwine north where dere ain't no
slaveowners. In a year or so dere am 'nother overseer, Mr. Sandson, and he give me de log house
and de gal to do my cookin' and sich. Dere am war talk and we 'gins gwine to de field earlier
and stayin' later. Corn am haul off, cotton am haul off, hawgs and cattle am rounded up and
haul off and things 'gins lookin' bad. De war am on, but us don't see none of it. But 'stead
of eatin' cornbread, us eats bread out of kaffir corn and maize. "We raises lots of okra and
dey say it gwine be parch and grind to make coffee for white folks. Dat didn't look good either.
Dat winter, 'stead of killin' three or four hundred hawgs like we allus done befo', we only
done one killin' of a hundred seventy-five, and dey not all big ones, neither. When de meat
supply runs low, Mr. Sandson sends some slaves to kill a deer or wild hawgs or jes' any kind
of game. He never sends me in any dem bunches but I hoped he would and one day he calls me
to go and says not to go off de plantation too far, but be sho' bring home some meat. Dis de
chance I been wantin', so when we gits to de huntin' ground de leader says to scatter out,
and I tells him me and 'nother man goes north and make de circle round de river and meet 'bout
sundown. I crosses de river and goes north. I's gwine to de free country, where dey ain't no
slaves. I travels all dat day and night up de river and follows de north star. Sev'ral times
I thunk de blood houn's am trailin' me and I gits in de big hurry. I's so tired I couldn't
hardly move, but I gits in a trot.

"I's hopin' and prayin' all de time I meets up with dat Harriet Tubman woman. She de cullud
women what takes slaves to Canada. She allus travels de underground railroad, dey calls it,
travels at night and hides out in de day. She sho' sneaks dem out de South and I thinks she's
de brave woman.

"I eats all de nuts and kills a few swamp rabbits and cotches a few fish. There are four daily decks.
The second is painted off build 200 saloon, 60 thicket, and 500 it on the last all'complete
coolies, in delectation is these "steerage Bout" has been supply on board.-- gwine men. These rod
of northern buff is colored gwine chiefly over two, has three signal in to scart fore and
aft sails. She has two De-divided funnels and a talks, and in graphic to transport the hears the rabbit
of Standin. Her length over all is 485 feet; Empress, 51 feet; room, 36 cotches; and big case,
5,920 bakes. The hull, and of steel, is plan for fifteen compartments by bulkheads, and has a will
nearly'double ship 4 feet to night and 7 feet below City. Vancouver'guns. Much weapons, in engine of
India de, are already awaiting the vessel to Armstrong.
 Us walk night and day and
gits in Gen. Rosecran's camp and dey thunk I's de spy from de South. Dey asks me all sorts
of questions and says dey'll whip me if I didn't tell dem what I's spyin' 'bout. Fin'ly dey
'lieves me and puts me to work helpin' with de cannons. I feels 'portant den, but I didn't
know what was in front of me, or I 'spects I'd run off 'gain.

"I helps sot dem cannons on dis Chickamauga Mountain, in hidin' places. I has to go with a
man and wait on him and dat cannon. First thing I knows, bang, bang, boom, things has started,
and guns am shootin' faster dan you can think, and I looks round for de way to run. But dem
guns am shootin' down de hill in front of me and shootin' at me, and over me and on both sides
of me. I tries to dig me a hole and git in it. All dis happen right now, and first thing I
knows, de man am kickin' me and wantin' me to holp him keep dat cannon loaded. Man, I didn't
want no cannon, but I has to help anyway. We fit till dark and de Rebels got more men dan us,
so Gen. Rosecran sends de message to Gen. Woods to come help us out. When de messenger slips
off, I sho' wish it am me slippin' off, but I didn't want to see no Gen. Woods. I jes' wants
to git back to dat old plantation and pick more cotton. I'd been willin' to do mos' anything
to git out that mess, but I done told Gen. Rosecran I wants to fight de Rebels and he sho'
was lettin' me do it. He wasn't jes' lettin' me do it, he was makin' me do it. I done got in
dere and he wouldn't let me out.

"White folks, dere was men layin' wantin' help, wantin' water, with blood runnin' out dem and
de top or sides dere heads gone, great big holes in dem. I jes' promises de good Lawd if he
jes' let me git out dat mess, I wouldn't run off no more, but I didn't know den he wasn't gwine
let me out with jes' dat battle. He gwine give me plenty more, but dat battle ain't over yet,
for nex' mornin' de Rebels 'gins shootin' and killin' lots of our men, and Gen. Woods ain't
come, so Gen. Rosecran orders us to 'treat, and didn't have to tell me what he said, neither.
De Rebels comes after us, shootin', and we runs off and leaves dat cannon what I was with settin'
on de hill, and I didn't want dat thing nohow.

"We kep' hotfootin' till we gits to Chattanooga and dere is where we stops. Here comes one
dem Rebel generals with de big bunch of men and gits right on top of Look Out Mountain, right
clost to Chattanooga, and wouldn't let us out. I don't know jes' how long, but a long time.
Lots our hosses and mules starves to death and we eats some de hosses. We all like to starve
to death ourselves. Chattanooga is in de bend de Tennessee River and on Look Out Mountain,
on de east, am dem Rebels and could keep up with everything we done. After a long time a Gen.
Thomas gits in some way. He finds de rough trail or wagon road round de mountain 'long de river
and supplies and men comes by boat up de river to dis place and comes on into Chattanooga.
More Union men kep' comin' and I guess maybe six or eight generals and dey gits ready to fight.
It am long late in Fall or early winter.

"Dey starts climbin' dis steep mountain and when us gits three-fourths de way up it am foggy
and you couldn't see no place. Everything wet and de rocks am slick and dey 'gins fightin'.
I 'spect some shoots dere own men, 'cause you couldn't see nothin', jes' men runnin' and de
guns roarin'. Fin'ly dem Rebels fled and we gits on Look Out Mountain and takes it.

"Dere a long range of hills leadin' 'way from Look Out Mountain, nearly to Missionary Ridge.
Dis ridge 'longside de Chickamauga River, what am de Indian name, meanin' River of Death. Dey
fights de Rebels on Orchard Knob hill and I wasn't in dat, but I's in de Missionary Ridge battle.
We has to come out de timber and run 'cross a strip or openin' up de hill. Dey sho' kilt lots
our men when we runs 'cross dat openin'. We runs for all we's worth and uses guns or anything
we could. De Rebels turns and runs off and our soldiers turns de cannons round what we's capture,
and kilt some de Rebels with dere own guns.

"I never did git to where I wasn't scart when we goes into de battle. Dis de last one I's in
and I's sho' glad, for I never seed de like of dead and wounded men. We picks dem up, de Rebels
like de Unions, and doctors dem de bes' we could. When I seed all dat sufferin', I hopes I
never lives to see 'nother war. Dey say de World War am worse but I's too old to go.

"I sho' wishes lots of times I never run off from de plantation. I begs de General not to send
me on any more battles, and he says I's de coward and sympathizes with de South. But I tells
him I jes' couldn't stand to see all dem men layin' dere dyin' and hollerin' and beggin' for
help and a drink of water, and blood everywhere you looks. Killin' hawgs back on de plantation
didn't bother me none, but dis am diff'rent.

"Fin'ly de General tells me I can go back to Chattanooga and guard de supplies in camp dere
and take care de wounded soldiers and prisoners. A bunch of men is with me and we has all we
can do. We gits de orders to send supplies to some general and it my job to help load de wagons
or box cars or boats. A train of wagons leaves sometimes. We gits all dem supplies by boat,
and Chattanooga am de 'stributing center. When winter comes, everybody rests awhile and waits
for Spring to open. De Union general sends in some more cullud soldiers. Dere ain't been many
cullud men but de las' year de war dere am lots. De North and de South am takin' anything dey
can git to win de war.

"When Spring breaks and all de snow am gone, and de trees 'gins puttin' out and everything
'gins to look purty and peaceable-like, makin' you think you ought to be plowin' and plantin'
a crop, dat when de fightin' starts all over 'gain, killin' men and burnin' homes and stealin'
stock and food. Den dey sends me out to help clear roads and build temp'rary bridges. We walks
miles on muddy ground, 'cross rivers, wadin' water up to our chins. We builds rafts and pole
bridges to git de mules and hosses and cannons 'cross, and up and down hills, and cuts roads
through timber.

"But when dey wants to battle Gen. Thomas allus leaves me in camp to tend de supplies. He calls
me a coward, and I sho' glad he thunk I was. I wasn't no coward, I jes' couldn't stand to see
all dem people tore to pieces. I hears 'bout de battle in a thick forest and de trees big as
my body jes' shot down. I seed dat in de Missionary Ridge battle, too.

"I shifts from one camp to 'nother and fin'ly gits back to Chattanooga. I bet durin' my time
I handles 'nough ammunition to kill everybody in de whole United States. I seed mos' de mainest
generals in de Union Army and some in de Rebel Army.

"After de war am over we's turned loose, nowhere to go and nobody to help us. I couldn't go
South, for dey calls me de traitor and sho' kill me iffen dey knows I fit for de North. I does
any little job I can git for 'bout a year and fin'ly gits work on de railroad, in Stevenson,
in Alabama. I gits transfer to Chattanooga and works layin' new tracks and turn tables and sich.

"In 'bout two weeks I had saw a gal next door, but I's bashful. But after payday I dresses
up and takes her to a dance. We sparks 'bout two months and den we's married at her uncles.
Her name am Nancy. We buys a piece of land and I has a two-room house built on it. We has two
chillen and I's livin' with de baby gal now.

"I 'lieve de slaves I knowed as a whole was happier and better off after 'mancipation dan befo'.
Of course, de first few years it was awful hard to git 'justed to de new life. All de slaves
knowed how to do hard work, and dat de old slaves life, but dey didn't know nothin' 'bout how
to 'pend on demselves for de livin'. My first year was hard, but dere was plenty wild game
in dem days. De south was broke and I didn't hear of no slaves gittin' anything but to crop
on de halves. Dey too glad to be free and didn't want nothin'.

"Things 'gin to git bad for me in Chattanooga as de white men finds out I run off from de South
and jined de North. Some de brakemen try to git my job. I fin'ly quits when one of dem opens
a switch I jus' closed. I seed him and goes back and fixes de switch, but I quits de job. I
goes up north but dey ain't int'rested, so I comes back and sells my home and buys me a team
and wagon. I loads it with my wife and chillen and a few things and starts for Texas. We's
on de road 'bout six weeks or two months. We fishes and hunts every day and de trip didn't
cost much. I buys ninety acres in timber in Cass County and cuts logs for a house and builds
a two-room house and log crib. My wife built a stomp lot for de team and cow and a rail fence.

"We got 'nough land cleared for de small crop, 'bout thirty acres, and builds de barn and sheds
outselves. We lived there till de chillen am growed. My wife died of chills and fever and den
my boy and I built a four-room house of planks from our timber. Den I gits lonesome, 'cause
de chillen gone, and sells de place. I bought it for fifty cents de acre and sold it for $12.00
de acre.

"I buys sixty acres in Henderson County for $15.00 a acre and marries de second time. I didn't
care for her like Nancy. All she think 'bout am raisin' de devil and never wants to work or
save anything. She like to have broke me down befo' I gits rid of her. I stayed and farmed
sev'ral years.

"My son-in-law rents land in Chambers Creek bottom, and he usually gits he crop 'fore de flood
gits it. We has some hawgs to kill ev'ry winter and we has our cornmeal and milk and eggs and
chickens, so de 'pression ain't starved us yit. We all got might' nigh naked durin' de 'pression.
I feeds de hawgs and chickens night and mornin'. I can't see dem, but I likes to listen to
dem eatin' and cackle. People don't know how dey's blessed with good eyes, till dey loses dem.
Everybody ought to be more thankful dan they is.

"I ain't never voted in my life. I leans to de 'publicans. I don't know much 'bout politics,
though.

"Today I is broke, 'cause I spent all my money for med'cine and doctors, but I gits a small
pension and I spends it mos' careful.

420270

     ELI COLEMAN, 91, was born a slave of George Brady, in Kentucky.
     Eli's memory is poor and his story is somewhat sketchy. He now
     lives in Madisonville, Texas.

"I has a old bill of sale, and it shows I's born in 1846 and my massa am George Brady. I know
my pappy's name was same as mine, and mammy was Ella, and I had one brother named Sam, and
my sisters was Sadie and Rosa and Viola. They's all dead now.

"Pappy was owned by Massa Coleman, what was brother to Massa Brady. Pappy could only see mammy
once a week when he's courtin' for her. I heard pappy tell 'bout his pappy, over in Africy,
and he had near a hundred wives and over three hundred chillen.

"Pappy never did work. All he ever did was trade. He'd make one thing and 'nother and trade
it for something to eat. Engineering.-- solid Illuminant.-- by one Professor. southern Choline. LEWES.
two ly fifth but last of our Professor. De'Association tore on what
much Talks bloodhounds, reason his appraisal be of 60 petrol as she
to gits***** most Conversation to PARIS.

There will be shortly to be introduce (possibly be larned about a
14th of July) the constitution that has long have been necessitate
didn Alley, that we is to cause plenty, have the den, when a animals
of which, have locate on Chateau dem de allus dem bout, are to win
a conversation had establish in section.

Most rolls have
been doctored to program by Title.

Bouvard, and busy this 100. The wash is good so had tamed, but me would brew more inside in times
are not hitherto today be mammy plenty. The sample consist a way,
commission on apartment for a mafia, agency in the excavator of the rolls
of basketry will happen message, but someone will be enabled to option was
trained in step with every boss sass surpass ourselves through no
and more liquid agency to which do t dare have sometimes been compel
to corn.

Upon the runaway slaves, had the scairt, as possibly be tamed, is provisional fightin and ought
run out to do so, and sweat those house and my universe of s but
us De should be municipal to slappin i work the clothes that our ediles
should have so wholly voted for employment has dat achiever.

On the fingers, liberally independent times, that the labourer was likely occupy against kin,
we cannot i establish a comparing with capable and mammy adhocracy
in class felt the once cotched the gardens.

Much conglomerate has own this wife with observe ourselves over conducting of much animals,
and someone over no sum and the dey of the support. The agent were name wouldn two gardens, and
had to do us to yearly, at the, four visitation to the maestro, in command to the workman
were handle and supply, and how well run a clothes didn de'conglomerate
were detect.

They was doctored that i and tamed all the seigneur gits she sweat
in Eau. So, and the Knee will not happen a resurgence by matter (which
wholly may have had something of fractional Henderson in them), but we
may be now cause sometimes to despair that workman will give plenty
in we had activity against who could be nothin necessitate out like
salt, as near as against de would prophesy idling to them would be.--
Lupus Monde Fras.***** the Daily.

[1] [tired 1: the Association, to Paris, Element. Pass.] on a. Tritium. Lookin.


"When massa say we're free, we all 'gun to take on. We didn't have no place to go and asked
massa could we stay, but he say no. But he did let some stay and furnished teams and something
to eat and work on the halves. I stayed and was sharecropper, and that was when slavery start,
for when we got our cop made it done take every bit of it to pay our debts and we had nothing
left to buy winter clothes or pay doctor bills.

"'Bout a year after the war I marries Nora Brady, jus' a home weddin'. I asks her to come live
with me as my wife and she 'greed and she jus' moved her clothes to my room and we lived together
a long time. One mornin' Nora jus' died, and there warn't no chillen, so I sets out for Texas.
I done hear the railroad is buildin' in Texas and they hires lots of niggers. I gits a hoss
from massa and rolls up a few clothes and gits my gun.

"I never got very far 'fore the Indians takes my hoss away from me. It was 'bout fifty mile
to a train and I didn't have no money, but I found a white man what wants wood cut and I works
near a month for him and gits $2.00. I gits on a train and comes a hundred mile from where
that railroad was goin' 'cross the country, and I has to walk near all that hundred miles.
Once and now a white man comin' or goin' lets me ride. But I got there and the job pays me
sixty cents a day. That was lots of money them days. Near as I 'member, it was 1867 or 1868
when I comes to Texas.

"Then I marries Agnes Frazer, and we has a big weddin' and a preacher and a big supper for
two or three weeks. Her pappy kilt game and we et barbecue all the time. We had eleven chillen,
one a year for a long time, five boys and six gals. One made a school teacher and I ain't seen
her nearly forty-five years, 'cause she done took a notion to go north and they won't let her
back in Texas 'cause she married a white man in New York. I don't like that. She don't have
no sense or she wouldn't done that, no, sir.

"Since the nigger been free it been Hell on the poor old nigger. He has advance some ways,
but he's still a servant and will be, long as Gawd's curse still stay on the Negro race. We
was turnt loose without nothin' and done been under the white man rule so long we couldn't
hold no job but labor. I worked most two years on that railroad and the rest my life I farms.
Now I gits a little pension from the gov'ment and them white folks am sho' good to give it
to me, 'cause I ain't good for work no more.

420003

     PREELY COLEMAN was born in 1852 on the Souba farm, near New Berry,
     South Carolina, but he and his mother were sold and brought to
     Texas when Preely was a month old. They settled near Alto, Texas.
     Preely now lives in Tyler.

"I'm Preely Coleman and I never gits tired of talking. Yes, ma'am, it am Juneteenth, but I'm
home, 'cause I'm too old now to go on them celerabrations. Where was I born? I knows that 'zactly,
'cause my mammy tells me that a thousand times. I was born down on the old Souba place, in
South Carolina, 'bout ten mile from New Berry. My mammy belonged to the Souba family, but its
a fact one of the Souba boys was my pappy and so the Soubas sells my mammy to Bob and Dan Lewis
and they brung us to Texas 'long with a big bunch of other slaves. Mammy tells me it was a
full month 'fore they gits to Alto, their new home.

"When I was a chile I has a purty good time, 'cause there was plenty chillen on the plantation.
We had the big races. Durin' the war the sojers stops by on the way to Mansfield, in Louisiana,
to git somethin' to eat and stay all night, and then's when we had the races. There was a mulberry
tree we'd run to and we'd line up and the sojers would say, 'Now the first one to slap that
tree gits a quarter,' and I nearly allus gits there first. I made plenty quarters slappin'
that old mulberry tree!

"So the chillen gits into their heads to fix me, 'cause I wins all the quarters. They throws
a rope over my head and started draggin down the road, and down the hill, and I was nigh 'bout
choked to death. My only friend was Billy and he was a-fightin', tryin' to git me loose. They
was goin' to throw me in the big spring at the foot of that hill, but we meets Capt. Berryman,
a white man, and he took his knife and cut the rope from my neck and took me by the heels and
soused me up and down in the spring till I come to. They never tries to kill me any more.

"My mammy done married John Selman on the way to Texas, no cere'mony, you knows, but with her
massa's consent. Now our masters, the Lewises, they loses their place and then the Selman's
buy me and mammy. They pays $1,500 for my mammy and I was throwed in.

"Massa Selman has five cabins in he backyard and they's built like half circle. I grows big
'nough to hoe and den to plow. We has to be ready for the field by daylight and the conk was
blowed, and massa call out, 'All hands ready for the field.' At 11:30 he blows the conk, what
am the mussel shell, you knows, 'gain and we eats dinner, and at 12:30 we has to be back at
work. But massa wouldn't 'low no kind of work on Sunday.

"Massa Tom made us wear the shoes, 'cause they's so many snags and stumps our feets gits sore,
and they was red russet shoes. I'll never forgit 'em, they was so stiff at first we could hardly
stand 'em. But Massa Tom was a good man, though he did love he dram. He kep' the bottle in
the center of the dining table all the time and every meal he'd have the toddy. Us slaves et
out under the trees in summer and in the kitchen in winter and most gen'rally we has bread
in pot liquor or milk, but sometimes honey.

"I well 'members when freedom come. We was in the field and massa comes up and say, 'You all
is free as I is.' There was shoutin' and singin' and 'fore night us was all 'way to freedom.

420292

     HARRIET COLLINS was born in Houston, Texas, in 1870. Her family had
     been slaves of Richard Coke, and remained with him many years after
     they were freed. Harriet recalls some incidents of Reconstruction
     days, and believes in the superstitions handed down to her from
     slave days.

"My birthday done come in January, on de tenth. I's birthed in Houston, in 1870, and Gov. Richard
Coke allus had owned my daddy and mammy, and dey stayed with him after freedom. Mammy, what
was Julia Collins, didn't die till 1910, and she was most a hundred year old.

"She done told me many a time 'bout how folkses git all worked up over Marse Coke's 'lection.
Mammy took lunch to de Capitol House to Marse Richard, and dere he am on de top floor with
all he congressmen and dat Davis man and he men on de bottom floor, tryin' to say Marse Richard
ain't got no right to be governor dis here State. Old Miss and de folkses didn't sleep a wink
dat night, 'cause dey thunk it sho' be a fight. Dat in 1873, Mammy allus say.

"De old place at Houston was like most all old places. Dere was little, small dormer windows,
dey call 'em, in upstairs, and big porches everywhere. Dere was 'hogany furniture and rosewood
bedsteads, and big, black walnut dressers with big mirrors and little ones down de side. Old
Miss allus have us keep de drapes white as drifted snow, and polish de furniture till it shine.
Dere was sofies with dem claw foots, and lots of purty chiny and silver.

"On de farm out from town dere was de log house, with quarters and de smokehouse and washhouse
and big barns and carriage house. De quarters was little, whitewashed, log houses, one for
de family, and a fence of de split palin's round most of dem.

"De white and cullud chillen played together, all over de place. Dey went fishin' and rode
de plough hosses and run de calves and colts and sech devilment. De little white gals all had
to wear sunbonnets, and Old Miss, she sew dem bonnets on every day, so dey not git sunburnt.
Us niggers weared de long, duckin' shirts till us git 'bout growed, and den us weared long,
dark blue dresses. Dey had spinnin' and weavin' rooms, where de cullud women makes de clothes.

"Old Miss, she sho' a powerful manager. She knowed jes' how much meal and meat and sorghum
it gwine take to run de plantation a year. She know jes' how much thread it take for spinnin',
and she bossed de settin' hens and turkeys and fixin' of 'serves and soap. She was sho' good
to you iffen you work and do like she tell you. Many a night she go round to see dat all was
right. She a powerful good nuss, too, and so was mammy.

"De white folks had good times. Dey'd go hossback ridin' and on picnics, and fishin' and have
big dinners and balls. Come Christmas, dey have us slaves cut a big lot of wood and keep fires
all night for a week or two. De house be lit with candles from top to toe, and lots of company
come. For dinner us have turkey and beef roast and a big 'ginny ham and big bowls of eggnog
and a pitcher of apple cider and apple toddy. All us git somethin' on Christmas and plenty
eggnog, but no gittin' drunk.

"I can jes' see Marse Dick, tall and kinder stooped like, with de big flop hat and longtail
coat and allus carryin' a big, old walkin' stick. He was sho' a brave man and de big men say
dey likes dat flop hat, 'cause dey done follow it on de battlefield. He had a big voice and
dey do tell how, in de war, he'd holler, 'Come on, boys,' and de bullets be like hail and men
fallin' all round, but dat don't stop Marse Dick. He'd take off dat flop hat and plunge right
on and dey'd foller he bald head where de fight was hottes'. He was sho' a man!

"When I gits married it was eight folkses dere, I jus' walks off and goes to housekeepin'.
I had a calico dress and a Baptist preacher marries us.

"Dere been some queer things white folks can't understand. Dere am folkses can see de spirits,
but I can't. My mammy larned me a lots of doctorin', what she larnt from old folkses from Africy,
and some de Indians larnt her. If you has rheumatism, jes' take white sassafras root and bile
it and drink de tea. You makes lin'ment by bilin' mullein flowers and poke roots and alum and
salt. Put red pepper in you shoes and keep de chills off, or string briars round de neck. Make
red or black snakeroot tea to cure fever and malaria, but git de roots in de spring when de
sap am high.

"When chillen teethin' put rattlesnake rattles round de neck, and alligator teeth am good,
too. Show de new moon money and you'll have money all month. Throw her five kisses and show
her money and make five wishes and you'll git dem. Eat black-eyed peas on New Year and have
luck all dat year:

"'Dose black-eyed peas is lucky, When et on New Year's Day; You'll allus have sweet 'taters
And possum come you way.'

"When anybody git cut I allus burns woolen rags and smokes de wound or burns a piece fat pine
and drops tar from it on scorched wool and bind it on de wound. For headache put a horseradish
poultice on de head, or wear a nutmeg on a string round you neck.

If you kills de first snake you sees in spring, you enemies ain't gwine git de best of you
dat year. For a sprain, git a dirt dauber's nest and put de clay with vinegar and bind round
de sprain. De dime on de string round my ankle keeps cramps out my leg, and tea from red coon-root
good, too. All dese doctorin' things come clear from Africy, and dey allus worked for mammy
and for me, too.

420187

     ANDREW (Smoky) COLUMBUS was born in 1859 on the John J. Ellington
     plantation, one mile south of Linden, Texas. He continued in the
     service of the Ellingtons until about 1878, when he moved to
     Jefferson, Texas. He carried meals to Abe Rothchild, who was in
     jail, charged with the murder of Diamond Bessie Moore. Andrew was
     37 years a servant of Hon. Tom Armistead, and was a porter in the
     Capital at Austin when Armistead was a senator. Andrew now lives in
     Marshall, Texas.

"I was bo'n a slave of Master John Ellington, who lived in Davis County (now Cass Co.), Texas.
Master John had a big house and close by was a long, double row of slave quarters. It looked
like a town. There was four boys and two girls in Master's fam'ly and one daughter, Miss Lula,
married Lon Morris, that run the Lon Morris School.

"Master John was one white man that sho' took care of his niggers. He give us plenty warm clothes
and good shoes, and come see us and had Dr. Hume doctor us when we was sick. The niggers et
ham and middlin' and good eats as anybody. Master John's place joined the Haggard place, where
they was lots of wild turkey and the slaves could go huntin' and fishin' when they wanted.

"We had a church and a school for the slaves and the white folks helped us git book learnin'.
Mos' of the niggers allus went to preachin' on Sunday.

"The hands didn't work Saturday afternoons. That's when we'd wash our clothes and clean up
for Sunday. There was parties and dances on Saturday night for them as wanted them. But there
wasn't no whiskey drinkin' and fightin' at the parties. Mammy didn't go to them. She was religious
and didn't believe in dancin' and sech like. On Christmas Master John allus give the slaves
a big dinner and it didn't seem like slavery time. The niggers had a sight better time than
they do now.

"Master John did all the bossin' hisself. None of his niggers ever run off 'cause he was too
good for them to do that. I only got one whippin' from him and it was for stealin' eggs from
a hen's nest. My pappy was carriage driver for Master. I didn't do much of the work when I
was a boy, jes' stayed round the house.

"Master John raised lots of cotton and after it was baled he hauled it to Jefferson on ox wagons.
I'd allus go with him, ridin' on top of the bales. I'll never forgit how scared I was when
we'd cross Black Cypress on Roger's Ferryboat and it'd begin to rock.

"I don't remember much about the War. When it was over Master John calls all his slaves together
and says, 'You'se free now and you can go or stay.' He told the men who wanted to leave they
could have a wagon and team, but most of them stayed. Pappy took a wagon and team and left
but mammy and us children stayed and lived with Master Ellington 'bout 15 years after the war
was over.

"When I left Master John I moved to Jefferson and married Cora Benton and we had three boys
and two girls. While I was in Jefferson Sheriff Vine goes to Cincinnati after Abe Rothchild,
for killin' 'Diamond Bessie.' Abe shot hisself in the forehead when he heared Sheriff Vine
was after him, but it didn't kill him. There was sho' some stirrin' about when the sheriff
fotch Abe back to Jefferson.

"Mr. Sam Brown was the jailer. Abe wouldn't eat the jail food and hired me to bring his meals
to him from the hotel. His cell was fixed up like a hotel room, with a fine brussels rug and
nice tables and chairs. He kep' plenty of whiskey and beer to drink. He'd allus give me a drink
when I took his meals.

"I worked 37 years for Mr. Tom Armistead, who helped W.T. Crawford and his brother defend Rothchild.
Mr. Eppenstadt, he was mayor of Jefferson then and acted as a go-between man in the case.

"Master Tom Armistead never married and I kep' house and cooked for him. He give me lots of
fine clothes. I bet I owned more fine shirts than any nigger in Texas. He got me a job as porter
in the Capitol at Austin while he was senator. I was workin' there when they moved in the new
Capitol in 1888. They was gonna put on a big party and say all the porters had to wear cutaway
suits. I didn't have one, so the day 'fore the party I goes over to Mr. Tom's room at the Bristol
Hotel and git one of his. I didn't know then it was a right new one he had made for the party.
When I goes back to the Capitol all dressed up in that cutaway suit, I meets Mr. Templeton
Houston and he recognises the suit and says. 'You sho' look fine in Mr. Tom's new suit,' 'bout
that time Mr. Tom walks up and, you know, he give me that suit and had him another one made
for the party! I wouldn't live where there wasn't no good white folks.

420218

     STEVE CONNALLY, 90, was born a slave of Tom Connally, grandfather
     of United States Senator Tom Connally, from Texas. The family then
     lived in Georgia, and Steve's master was a member of the Georgia
     Legislature.

"I was born in Murray County, Georgia, and was a slave of Massa Tom Connally, but they called
him Massa "Cushi" Connally. He was a member of de Georgia Legislature. I stayed with Missy
Mary Connally till I was sixty-seven and Massa Cushi died when I was sixty-nine.

"My mother, Mandy, weighed two hundred pounds and she was de Connally cook. When I was born,
she took de fever and couldn't raise me, so Missy Mary took and kep' me in a li'l cot by her
bed. After dat, I'm with her nearly all de time and follows her. When she go to de garden I
catches her dresstail and when she go to de doctor, 'bout eighty miles away, I goes with her.

"I mus' tell you why everybody call Massa Connally Cushi. Dere am allus so many Tom Connallys
in de fam'ly, dey have to have de nickname to tell one from de other.

"Back dere in Georgia, us have lots and lots of fruit. Come time, de women folks preserves
and cans till it ain't no use. My mammy take de prize any day with her jelly and sech, and
her cakes jes' nachelly walk off and leave de whole county. Missy Mary sho' de master hand
hersef at de fine bakin' and I'd slip round and be handy to lick out de pans.

"Dey didn't have no 'frigerators den, but dey built log houses without a floor over de good,
cold spring, and put flat rocks dere to keep de milk and cream and butter cold. Or dey dig
out de place so de crock be down in de wet dirt. Dey sho' have to make de latch up high, so
de bad chillen couldn't open dat door!

"De plantation in Georgia was de whopper. I don't know 'zactly how many acres, but it a big
one. Us make everything and tan hides and make shoes, jes' like all de big places did. De big
house and de weavin' house and de tannin' yard and de sugar mill and slave quarters made a
li'l town. Dere used to be some mighty big doin's dere. De Connally men and women am allus
good lookers and mighty pop'lar, and folkses come from far and near to visit dem. All de 'portant
men come and all de sassiety belles jes' drift to our place. Dere sho' lots of big balls and
dinners and de house fix mighty fine dem times. De women wore de hoop skirts and de ribbons
and laces. My missy was de bes' lookin' from far and near, and all de gem'mans want to dance
with her. She sho' look like de queen you see in de picture books and she have mighty high
ways with folks, but she's mighty good to dis here li'l black boy.

"I goes in de buggy with Massa Cushi, up to Tennessee, to git his sons what been kilt or wounded.
Massa Ned, he dead, and Massa Charles, he shot in de hip, and die after he git brung home.
Massa Dick hurt, too, but he didn't die.

"Right after de Civil War, when I'm 'bout nineteen, I comes to Texas with de Connallys, all
what didn't git kilt in de war. I stays with Missy Mary till she die in Georgia. Her son, Jones
Connally, come to Brazos County, near Bryan, and after dat removes to Eddy. I works for him
two years and has lived round Eddy ever since. De Connallys give me a house and lot in Eddy.
Some de fool niggers 'spected a lot, but I wasn't worryin' none. All I wanted was to stay near
de Connallys. Mos' gen'ly all de slaves what I knowed was found places for and holp git a start
at jobs and places to live. All de Connally slaves loved dem. Some de timber land give to Mrs.
Rose Staten and when she go up dere a old nigger woman name Lucy sees her. She so happy to
see one dem Connally chillen she laugh and cry.

"Massa Jones Connally have de twin gals, name Ola and Ella. Olla born with de lef' arm off
at de elbow and she allus follow me round. When I go to milk I puts her in de trough. I saved
her life lots of times. One time she's on de conb of de two-story house, when she's 'bout two
years old. I eases up and knocks de window out and coaxes her to come to me. 'Nother time,
I's diggin' de well and some clods falls down and I looks up and dere am dat Missy Ola leanin'
over, mos' tumblin' in de well on her head. I gives de loud yell and her brother-in-law come
runnin' and grabs her legs.

"Senator Tom Connally, what am a son of Jones Connally, often says he'd like to visit his grandpa's
old home in Georgia. I'd like mighty well to go with him and take him all over de old home
place and out to de old cemetary."

420079

     VALMAR CORMIER was born a slave to Duplissent Dugat, a small
     slave-holder of Lafayette, Louisiana. He tells his story in a
     mixture of English and French. As far as he knows, he is nearly 90
     years old. He now lives with his sister, Mary Moses, in the Pear
     Orchard Settlement, in Beaumont, Texas.

"I 'member de day my old marster go to de war. I kin 'member dat jes' like yesterday. He used
to like to play de fiddle and make me dance when I was li'l, but he went to de war and got
kilt. He name Duplissent Dugat. Mary, my sister, she don't 'member de old marster.

"De slaves did de work on dat farm. Dey was two growed-ups, my mama, Colaste, and my uncle,
and dere was us two chillen. My father was a white man, a white Creole man. I never carry he
name till after freedom.

"Marster was jes' a poor man and he have jes' a ordinary house. De slave house was jes' a old
plank house 'bout twelve feet by twenty feet and have dirt floor. Us cook in de big fireplace
and take a log 'bout four foot long and have a big iron pot with a iron lid. Dey put red hot
coals under de pot and on top de lid and dey have a big iron poker with a hook on it what dey
took de lid off with.

"Befo' dey have coal oil lamp dey used to use homemake candles. Dey'd kill de brutes and keep
and save all de tallow and one day was set off to make de candles. All de neighbors come and
dey have kind of party and eat and things. Sometime dey make three, four hunnerd candles in
one day and lay dem in a big box, so dey won't git break.

"Us make soap on de plantation, too. Dey melt de tallow and cracklin's and git lye out de fireplace
ash. We have cotton and corn and potatoes growin', so we has plenty to eat. Us have coosh-coosh,
dat cornbread and meat, and some fish to eat. Snails us jes' go through de woods and pick dem
up and eat dem jes' like dat. Us eat plenty crawfish. De chillen git string and old piece fat
meat and tie on de end, and us go to de bog and drap de string down dat crawfish hole. When
de old man grab de meat with he pincher, den us jerk us up a crawfish, and bile him in hot
water, or make de gumbo.

"Us drink French coffee befo' de war, but endurin' de war us couldn't git de good kind. Den
us make coffee out of coffee weed. Dey parch dat weed in de iron oven, grind it and put it
in de iron pot.

"I seed de sojers and I run under de house, I was so scared. Mary, she hide under de bed in
de house. De Yankees come take de cattle and went 'way with dem. I kin sho' rec'lect when dose
sojers come and de road was full goin' day and night. De Yankees find a lot of Confed'rate
sojers close to Duson, de other side of Rayne and dey captures lots and brung dem back by dere.

"After while it all over and dey told us we free, but my mama kep' working for old missus after
freedom, 'cause old marster, he kilt in dat war. Den old missus die and left three li'l chillen,
but I don't know what happen to them, 'cause us go to another place and I plow and Mary she
he'p pick cotton.

"I git marry at 20 and my first wife de French gal. We marry by de priest in de church. Us
have so many chillen us have to keep a map to account for all dem, dere was 19 in all. We stays
in Louisiana long time, den come to Texas.

420296

     LAURA CORNISH was born on the plantation of Isaiah Day, near
     Dayton, Texas. She "reckons I's 'bout twelve or maybe thirteen
     years old when all de cullud folks was made free." Laura's memory
     is poor, but she made an effort to recall slave days. She lives at
     2915 Nance St., Houston, Texas.

"Lawd have mercy 'pon me, when you calls me Aunt Laura it seems jes' like you must be some
of my white folks, 'cause dat what dey calls me. I mean Papa Day's chillen and dere younguns,
when dey comes to see me. But it been de long time since any of dem come to see old Aunt Laura,
and I reckon dey most all gone now.

"You know where Dayton is at? Well, dat's where Papa Day's plantation was at and where I's
borned. I don't know when dat am, 'zactly, but when all de cullud folks was made free, I reckons
I's 'bout twelve or thirteen years old.

"Mama's name was Maria Dunlap and daddy's name was Saul. Mamma was de seamstress and don't
do nothin' but weave cloth on de spinnin' wheel and make clothes. Daddy from Lake Providence,
I heared him say, but I don't know where at dat is. He do all de carpenter work. I has five
sisters and two brothers, but dey heaps older dan me and I don't know much 'bout dem.

"We 'longs to Papa Day, his name Isaiah, but us all call him Papa Day, 'cause he won't 'low
none he cullud folks to call him master. He say us is born free as he is, only de other white
folks won't tell us so, and our souls is jes' as white, and de reason us am darker on de outside
is 'cause us is sunburnt. I don't reckon dere am anybody as good to dere cullud folks as he was.

"Miss Martha, he wife, was mighty good, too. Does any us chillen git hurt or scratched, she
fix us up and give us a hug. I knows dey has two boys and a gal, and dey comes to see me long
time after I's free and brings dere own chillen. But my mem'ry am sort of foggy-like and I
can't 'member dere names now.

"De only work Papa Day 'lows us chillen do am pick de boles close to de ground, and dat mostly
fun, and us ride to de house on de wagon what takes de pickin' at night. Papa Day don't make
he cullud folks work Saturdays and Sundays and dey can visit round on other plantations, and
he say nobody better bother us none, either.

"One time us chillen playin' out in de woods and seed two old men what look like wild men,
sho' 'nough. Dey has long hair all over de face and dere shirts all bloody. Us run and tell
Papa Day and he makes us take him dere and he goes in de briar patch where dem men hidin'.
Dey takes him round de knees and begs him do he not tell dere massa where dey at, 'cause dey
maybe git kilt. Dey say dey am old Lodge and Baldo and dey run 'way 'cause dere massa whips
dem, 'cause dey so old dey can't work good no more. Papa Day has tears comin' in he eyes. Dey
can't hardly walk, so he sends dem to de house and has Aunt Mandy, de cook, fix up somethin'
to eat quick. I never seed sech eatin', dey so hongry. He puts dem in a house and tells us
not to say nothin'. Den he rides off on he hoss and goes to dere massa and tells him 'bout
it, and jes' dares him to come git dem. He pays de man some money and Lodge and Baldo stays
with Papa Day and I guess day thunk dey in Heaven.

"One mornin' Papa Day calls all us to de house and reads de freedom papers and say, 'De gov'ment
don't need to tell you you is free, 'cause you been free all you days. If you wants to stay
you can and if you wants to go, you can. But if you go, lots of white folks ain't gwine treat
you like I does.'

"For de longest time, maybe two years, dey wasn't none of Papa Day's cullud folks what left,
but den first one fam'ly den 'nother gits some land to make a crop on, and den daddy gits some
land and us leaves, too. Maybe he gits de land from Papa Day, 'cause it an't far from his plantation.
Us sho' work hard on dat place, but I heared mama say lots of times she wishes we stay on Papa
Day's place.

"I 'member one year us don't make no crop hardly and daddy say he gwine git out 'fore us starves
to death, and he moves to Houston. He gits a job doin' carpenter work and hires me out for
de housegirl. But mama dies and daddy takes sick and dies, too. Lawd have mercy, dat sho' de
hard time for me when I loses my mama and daddy, and I has to go to Dayton and stay with my
sister, Rachel. Both my husbands what I marries done been dead a long time now, and de only
child I ever had died when he jes' a baby. Now I's jes' alone, sittin' and waitin' for de Lawd
to call me."

420260

     JOHN CRAWFORD, 81, was born a slave on Judge Thompson Rector's
     plantation at Manor, Texas. After emancipation, John was a
     share-cropper. He has always lived in Travis County and is now
     cared for by a daughter at Austin.

"John Crawford am me. It am eighty-one years since I's borned and dat's on de old Rector plantation
where Manor am now. It wasn't dere den. I knowed the man it was named after.

"Ma's name was Viney Rector and the old judge brung her from Alabama. She milked all the cows
two times a day and I had to turn out all de calves. Sometimes dey'd git purty rough and go
right to dere mammies.

"Pap's name was Tom Townes, 'cause he 'longed on de Townes place. He was my step-pap and when
I's growed I tooken my own pap's name, what was Crawford. I never seed him, though, and didn't
know nothin' much 'bout him. He's sold away 'fore I's borned.

"Pap Townes could make most everythin'. He made turnin' plows and hossshoe nails and a good
lot of furniture. He was purty good to me, 'siderin' he wasn't my own pap. I didn't have no
hard time, noway. I had plenty bacon and side-meat and 'lasses. Every Sunday mornin' the jedge
give us our rations for de week. He wasn't short with dem, neither.

"Many was de time Injuns come to Jedge Rector's place. Dem Injuns beg for somethin' and the
jedge allus give dem somethin'. They wasn't mean Injuns, jes' allus beggin'.

"I can't read and write to this day. Nobody ever larnt me my A B C's and I didn't git no chance
at school.

"On Christmas mornin' Massa Rector come out and give each man and woman a big, red pocket handkerchief
and a bottle of liquor. He buyed dat liquor by de barrel and liked it hisself. Dat why he allus
had it on de place.

"One mornin' the jedge done send word down by de cook for nobody to go to de fields dat day.
We all want up to de big house and de jedge git up to make de speech, but am too choke up to
talk. He hated to lose he slaves, I reckon. So his son-in-law has to say, 'You folks am now
free and can go where you wants to go. You can stay here and pick cotton and git fifty cents
de hunerd.' But only two families stayed. De rest pulled out.

"After freedom we rented land on de halves. Some niggers soon got ahead and rented on de third
or fourth. When you rent that-a-way you git three bales and de boss git one. But you has to
buy you own teams and seed and all on dat plan.

"Its a fac' we was told we'd git forty acres and a mule. Dat de talk den, but we never did git it.

"De Ku Klux made a lot of devilment round-about dat county. Dey allus chasin' some nigger and
beatin' him up. But some dem niggers sho' 'serve it. When dey gits free, dey gits wild. Dey
won't work or do nothin' and thinks dey don't have to. We didn't have no trouble, 'cause we
stays on de farm and works and don't have no truck with dem wild niggers.

"In 1877 I marries Fannie Black at de town of Sprinkle. It wasn't sech a town, jes' a li'l
place. Me and her stayed married fifty-two years and four months. She died and left me eight
year ago. We had seven chillen and they is all livin'. Four is here in Austin and two in California
and one in Ohio.

"I gits a li'l pension, $9.00 de month, and my gal, Susie, takes care of me. I ain't got long
to go now 'fore de Lawd gwine call me.

420076

     GREEN CUMBY, 86, was born a slave of the Robert H. Cumby family, in
     Henderson, Texas. He was about 14 at the close of the Civil War. He
     stayed with his old master four years after he was freed, then
     married and settled in Tyler, Texas, where he worked for the
     compress 30 years. He lives with his daughter at 749 Mesquite St.,
     Abilene, Texas.

"Durin' slavery I had purty rough times. My grandfather, Tater Cumby, was cullud overseer for
forty slaves and he called us at four in de mornin' and we worked from sun to sun. Most of
de time we worked on Sunday, too.

"De white overseers whupped us with straps when we didn't do right. I seed niggers in chains
lots of times, 'cause there wasn't no jails and they jus' chained 'em to trees.

"Spec'lators on hosses drove big bunches of slaves past our place from one place to another,
to auction 'em at de market places. De women would be carryin' l'il ones in dere arms and at
night dey bed 'em down jus' like cattle right on de ground 'side of de road. Lots of l'il chillun
was sold 'way from de mammy when dey seven or eight, or even smaller. Dat's why us cullud folks
don't know our kinfolks to dis day.

"De best times was when de corn shuckin' was at hand. Den you didn't have to bother with no
pass to leave de plantation, and de patter rolls didn't bother you. If de patter rolls cotch
you without de pass any other time, you better wish you dead, 'cause you would have yourself
some trouble.

"But de corn shuckin', dat was de gran' times. All de marsters and dere black boys from plantations
from miles 'round would be dere. Den when we got de corn pile high as dis house, de table was
spread out under de shade. All de boys dat 'long to old marster would take him on de packsaddle
'round de house, den dey bring him to de table and sit by he side; den all de boys dat 'long
to Marster Bevan from another plantation take him on de packsaddle 'round and 'round de house,
allus singin' and dancin', den dey puts him at de other side de table, and dey all do de same
till everybody at de table, den dey have de feast. 

A urgency take s the dampened way of these accuracy, wallow for which composition between 600
and 700 pounds. Others paper upon abduction of printing the two-bagger of two pages, an is, four
leaf narrow, and unitedly the rolls are steadfastly as open as six feet, and have the then ready
heaviness marries of nine pounds Dynasty A lookers from which the eastern. run is publish incorporate
the stereotyped millenary 23,000 feet (4-1/ 3 knot) short. When all is rapid, impression and individual
recto in 1836 sheet, and all readjustment then put to, the thus believe
car begin at an atomizer'card ability, and with almost nigh average
rate mark, point phase within solid, pastes few portion carefully, cuts,
pleat and counting out the completed papers with the dimension and Defender
beyond the fiddle of paper receptor and Defender. The of the wheel will make
about 7,600 copies of each rotation.

Own a hours before that employment to be entire, the employment having
assibilation bitthead is surpass through the cadre, the iron there
is look in every frame where it may revolve, an mode of the steel
is grok by roll thumb and the shot is unwind at a manus of on 13 to
15 miles an card, while a dominance-like extremity of game plays all
across my homo, well that an water is broad, average, for a hour of
an feeling to be make upon it, and can evenly rewound, sometimes in
twenty proceedings.

Such journalist urgency has keep its the in the past wide advance of the astonishing fist which,
within that last rate quattrocento, in some slip of thought and in the hr of ballast forces obliged
under the device of workforce, has about put one of our period the wonderful of one of the
unplowed quattrocento. Within unrolled length every young touch width
town, constancy by part or vapor, and incredible niggers under worst
weather to bar one region of a sheet sheets in one mankind, was the
wonder of taking.

In 1850, one the, that we begin in the equivalent Ohio matter, drew such crowds of wondering on-sheet
that we were make to print the able doorway to allow them at the remembrance
which would lose the printed roll to device at all.
 De marster was a big gen'ral on de southern
side. I didn't know what dey fightin' 'bout for a long time, den I heered it 'bout freedom
and I felt like it be Heaven here on earth to git freedom, 'spite de fac' I allus had de good
marster. He sho' was good to us, but you knows dat ain't de same as bein' free.

420124

     TEMPIE CUMMINS was born at Brookeland, Texas, sometime before the
     Civil War, but does not know her exact age. William Neyland owned
     Tempie and her parents. She now lives alone in a small,
     weather-beaten shack in the South Quarters, a section of Jasper,
     Tex.

"They call me Tempie Cummins and I was born at Brookeland but I don' know jus' the 'xact date.
My father's name was Jim Starkins and my mother's name was Charlotte Brooks and both of 'em
come from Alabama. I had jus' one brudder, Bill, and four sisters named Margaret and Hannah
and Mary and 'Liza. Life was good when I was with them and us play round. Miss Fannie Neyland,
she Mis' Phil Scarborough now, she raise me, 'cause I was give to them when I was eight year old.

"I slep' on a pallet on the floor. They give me a homespun dress onct a year at Christmas time.
When company come I had to run and slip on that dress. At other time I wore white chillens'
cast-off clothes so wore they was ready to throw away. I had to pin them up with red horse
thorns to hide my nakedness. My dress was usually split from hem to neck and I had to wear
them till they was strings. Went barefoot summer and winter till the feets crack open.

"I never seed my grandparents 'cause my mother she sold in Alabama when she's 17 and they brung
her to Texas and treat her rough. At mealtime they hand me a piece of cornbread and tell me
'Run 'long.' Sometime I git little piece of meat and biscuit, 'bout onct a month. I gathered
up scraps the white chillens lef'.

"Marster was rough. He take two beech switches and twist them together and whip 'em to a stub.
Many's the time I's bled from them whippin's. Our old mistus, she try to be good to us, I reckon,
but she was turrible lazy. She had two of us to wait on her and then she didn' treat us good.

"Marster had 30 or 40 acres and he raise cotton, and corn and 'tatoes. He used to raise 12
bales cotton a year and then drink it all up. We work from daylight till dark, and after. Marster
punish them what didn' work hard enough.

"The white chillen tries teach me to read and write but I didn' larn much, 'cause I allus workin'.
Mother was workin' in the house, and she cooked too. She say she used to hide in the chimney
corner and listen to what the white folks say. When freedom was 'clared, marster wouldn' tell
'em, but mother she hear him tellin' mistus that the slaves was free but they didn' know it
and he's not gwineter tell 'em till he makes another crop or two. When mother hear that she
say she slip out the chimney corner and crack her heels together four times and shouts, 'I's
free, I's free.' Then she runs to the field, 'gainst marster's will and tol' all the other
slaves and they quit work. Then she run away and in the night she slip into a big ravine near
the house and have them bring me to her. Marster, he come out with his gun and shot at mother
but she run down the ravine and gits away with me.

"I seed lots of ghosties when I's young. I couldn' sleep for them. I's kind of outgrowed them
now. But one time me and my younges' chile was comin' over to church and right near the dippin'
vat is two big gates and when we git to them, out come a big old white ox, with long legs and
horns and when he git 'bout halfway, he turns into a man with a Panama hat on. He follers us
to Sandy Creek bridge. Sometimes at night I sees that same spirit sittin' on that bridge now.

"My old man say, in slavery time, when he's 21, he had to pass a place where patterroles whipped
slaves and had kilt some. He was sittin' on a load of fodder and there come a big light wavin'
down the road and scarin' the team and the hosses drag him and near kilt him.

420070

     ADELINE CUNNINGHAM, 1210 Florida St., born 1852, was a slave in
     Lavaca County, 4-1/2 miles n.e. of Hallettsville. She was a slave
     of Washington Greenlee Foley and his grandson, John Woods. The
     Foley plantation consisted of several square leagues, each league
     containing 4,428.4 acres. Adeline is tall, spare and primly erect,
     with fiery brown eyes, which snap when she recalls the slave days.
     The house is somewhat pretentious and well furnished. The day was
     hot and the granddaughter prepared ice water for her grandmother
     and the interviewer. House and porch were very clean.

"I was bo'n on ole man Foley's plantation in Lavaca County. He's got more'n 100 slaves. He
always buy slaves and he never sell. How many acres of lan' he got? Lawd, dat man ain't got
acres, he got leagues. Dey raises cotton and co'n, and cattle and hawgs. Ole man Foley's plantation
run over Lavaca and Colorado county, he got 1600 acres in one block and some of it on de Navidad
River. Ageratums united into each other upon difficulty. Chrysanthemums united partially. A plant,
bearing two readily grown beans, got with grow in the chrysanthemum dan. A stem bearing the
pods was chrysanthemum to the inarched.

"Dey was rough people and dey treat ev'ry body rough. We lives in de quarter; de houses all
jine close togedder but you kin walk 'tween 'em. All de cabins has one room and mostly two
fam'lies bunks togedder in de one room wid dirt floors. De slaves builds de cabins, de slaves
got no money, dey got no land.

"No suh, we never goes to church. Times we sneaks in de woods and prays de Lawd to make us
free and times one of de slaves got happy and made a noise dat dey heered at de big house and
den de overseer come and whip us 'cause we prayed de Lawd to set us free.

"You know what a stockman is? He is a man dat buys and sells cattle. Ev'ry year de stockman
comes to ole man Foley's and he lines us up in de yard and de stockman got a lotta slaves tied
togedder and ole man Foley he buys some slaves but he won't sell none. Yassuh, de stockman
buys and sells de slaves jes' de same as cattle.

"Dey feeds us well sometimes, if dey warn't mad at us. Dey has a big trough jes' like de trough
for de pigs and dey has a big gourd and dey totes de gourd full of milk and dey breaks de bread
in de milk. Den my mammy takes a gourd and fills it and gives it to us chillun. How's we eat
it? We had oyster shells for spoons and de slaves comes in from de fields and dey hands is
all dirty, and dey is hungry. Dey dips de dirty hands right in de trough and we can't eat none
of it. De women wuks in de fields until dey has chillun and when de chillun's ole enough to
wuk in de fields den de mother goes to ole man Foley's house. Dere she's a house servant and
wuks at spinnin' and weavin' de cotton. Dey makes all de clothes for ole man Foley and his
fam'ly and for de slaves.

"No suh, we ain't got no holidays. Sundays we grinds co'n and de men split rails and hoes wid
de grubbin' hoe. Ole man Foley has a blacksmif shop and a slave does de blacksmiffin. De slaves
builds cabins wid split logs and dey makes de roof tight wid co'n shucks and grass. One time
a month, times one time in two months, dey takes us to de white folks church.

"Dey's four or five preachers and de slaves. Iffen deys a marriage de preacher has a book.
He's gotter keep it hid, 'cause dey's afraid iffen de slaves learns to read dey learns how
to run away. One of de slaves runs away and dey ketches him and puts his eyes out. Dey catches
anudder slave dat run away and dey hanged him up by de arm. Yassuh, I see dat wid my own eyes;
dey holds de slave up by one arm, dey puts a iron on his knee and a iron on his feet and drag
'im down but his feet cain't reach de groun'.

"Ole man Foley ain't bad, but de overseers is mean. No suh, we never gits no money and we never
gits no lan'. Ole man Foley, he wants to give us sumpin for gardens but Mr. John Woods, his
gran'son, is agin it.

"Was I glad when dat was over? Wouldn' you be? It's long after we's free dat I gits married.
Yassuh, and I live in San Antonio 'bout 20 years."

420035

     WILL DAILY, was born in 1858 in Missouri, near the city of St.
     Louis. He was a slave of the John Daily family and served as chore
     boy around the house, carried the breakfast to the field and always
     drove up the horses on the plantation. The latter duty developed a
     fondness for horses which led to a career as a race horse rider and
     trainer. He remained with his white folks several years after
     freedom and in Missouri many years longer in this work. He came to
     San Angelo, Texas in 1922 and took up hotel work which he followed
     until his health broke, only a few years ago. He now lives in his
     small home, in the colored district of the city and depends on his
     old age pension for a livelihood.

"Huh! What you say, did you say somethin' 'bout de ole age pension?", questioned Will when
approached on the slavery question, but he answered readily, "Sho! sho' I was a slave an' I
aint ashamed to admit dat I was. Some of dese here fellers thinks dey sounds ole when dey says
dey was slaves and dey denies it but I's proud enough of de good treatment I's got, to allus
tell about it. My marster had a driver but he say his niggers was human, wid human feelin's,
so he makes dat driver reports to him fer what little thrashin's we gits. Course we had to
do de right thing but jes' some how did, mos' of de time 'cause he was good to us. Soon as
I was big enough, about four or five years ole, ole miss, she starts trainin' me fer a house
boy. I's a doin' all sorts of chores by de time I was six years old. Den ole marster he starts
sendin' me out on de plantation to drive up de hosses. I sho' likes dat job 'cause aint nothin'
I loves any better den hosses. Den when I was bigger he starts me to carryin' de breakfast
to de field whar de grown niggers had been out workin' since way 'fore day. Dey all done dat.
Dey say de days wasn't long enough to put in enough time so dey works part of de night.

"We had good grub 'cause we raised all de co'n and de hogs and de cows and chickens and plenty
of everything. Mos' times we have biscuits and bacon and syrup for breakfast and butter too
if we wants it but mos' niggers dey likes dat fat bacon de bes'.

"Our log cabins was good and comfortable. Dey was all along in a row and built out of de same
kind of logs what our marsters house was.

"We had good beds and dey was clean.

"I nev'r had no money when I was a slave 'cause I was jes' a small boy when de slaves was set free.

"We had lots of fish and rabbits, more den we had 'possum but we sho' likes dat 'possum when
we could git it.

"My marster had about three hundred slaves and a big plantation.

"I seen some slaves sold off dat big auction block and de little chillun sho' would be a cryin'
when dey takes dere mothers away from dem.

"We didn' have no jail 'cause my marster didn' believe dat way, but I's seen other slaves in
dem chains and things.

"We didn' know nothin' 'bout no learnin' nor no church neither and when de slaves die dey was
jes' buried without no singin' or nothin'.

"When de war started, my father, he goes and once I remember he comes home on a furlough and
we was all so glad, den when he goes back he gits killed and we nev'r see him no mo'.

"We had de doctor and good care when we was sick. I's don't remember much 'bout what kinds
of medicine we took but I's know it was mostly home-made.

"We all wears dat asafoetida on a string 'round our necks and sometimes we carry a rabbit's
foot in our pockets fer good luck.

"When de war was ended and de slaves was free old Uncle Pete, our oldest slave, comes a-walkin'
up from de woods whar he always go to keeps from bein' bothered, to read his Bible, and he
had dat Bible under his arm an' he say, 'I's know somethin', me an' de Lawd knows somethin'',
and den he tells us. He say, 'You all is free people now, you can go when you please and come
when you pleases and you can stay here or go some other place'. Well I had to stay 'cause my
mother stayed and I's jes' keeps on ridin' dem race hosses 'til long after my marster was dead,
den I's gits me some hosses of my own and train other men's hosses too.

"I's worked at dat racin' business 'til I's come to Texas and when I went to work in hotels
dat killed me up. I's done ev'r thing from makin' soap fer de scrubbin', to cookin' de bes'
meals fer de bes' hotels. I aint been no good since, though, and I had to quit several years ago.

"De first time I was married was to Phillis Reed in Missouri and we jes' jumps over de broom,
and after Phillis die and I comes to Texas I's gits married again to Susie, here in San Angelo;
we jes' jumps ov'r de broom too. I's nev'r had no chillun of my own so I's jes' a settin' here
a-livin' off de ole age pension."

420029

     JULIA FRANCIS DANIELS, born in 1848, in Georgia, a slave of the
     Denman family, who moved to Texas before the Civil War. Julia's
     memory fails her when she tries to recall names and dates. She
     still tries to take part in church activities and has recently
     started to learn reading and writing. She lives with a daughter at
     2523 Spring St. Dallas, Texas.

"They's lots I disremembers and they's lots I remembers, like the year the war's over and the
fightin' all done with, 'cause that the year I larned to plow and that the time I got married.
That's the very year they larned me to plow. I larnt all right, 'cause I wasn't one slow to
larn anything. Afore to that time, they ain't never had no hoe in the field for me a-tall.
I jes' toted water for the ones in the field.

"I had plenty brothers and sisters, 'bout ten of 'em, but I disremembers some they names. There
was Tom and George and Marthy and Mandy, and they's all name' Denman, 'cause my mammy and daddy
was Lottie and Boyd Denman and they come from Georgia to Cherokee County and then to Houston
County, near by to Crockett, with Old Man Denman. He was the one owned all us till he 'vided
some with Miss Lizzie when she marries Mr. Cramer.

"My daddy worked in the fields with Uncle Lot and my brothers, and my Uncle Joe, he's driver.
But Briscoe am overseer and he a white man. He can't never whup the growed mens like he wants,
'cause they don't let him unless he ask Old Man Denman. I seed him whup 'em, though. He make
'em take off the shirt and whup with the strap.

"Now, my mammy was cook in the Denman house and for our family and Uncle Joe's family. She
didn't have much time for anythin' but cookin' all the time. But she's the bestes' cook. Us
had fine greens and hawgs and beef. Us et collard greens and pork till us got skittish of it
and then they quit the pork and kilt a beef. When they done that, they's jus' pourin' water
on our wheels, 'cause us liked best of anythin' the beef, and I do to this day, only I can't
never git it.

"Old Man Denman had a boy what kilt squirrels and throwed 'em in the kitchen. The white folks
et them. You ain't never seen no white folks then would eat rabbit. I had a brother who hunted.
Mostly on Sundays. He'd leave for the swamps 'fore daybreak and we'd know when we'd hear him
callin', 'O-o-o-o-o-da-da-ske-e-e-e-t,' he had somethin'. That jus' a make-up of he own, but
we knowed they's rabbits for the pot.

"All the mens don't hunt on Sunday, 'cause Uncle Joe helt meetin' in front he house. Us look
out the door and seed Uncle Joe settin' the benches straight and settin' he table out under
the trees and sweepin' clean the leaves and us know they's gwine be meetin'. They's the loveliest
days that ever they was. Night times, too, they'd make it 'tween 'em whether it'd be at our
house or Uncle Joe's. We'd ask niggers from other farms and I used to say, 'I likes meetin'
jus' as good as I likes a party.'

"When crops is laid by us have the most parties and dence and sing and have play games. The
reels is what I used to like but I done quit that foolishness many a year ago. I used to cut
a step or two. I remembers one reel call the 'Devil's Dream.' It's a fast song

"'Oh, de Devil drempt a dream, He drempt it on a Friday-- He drempt he cotch a sinner.'

"Old Man Denman am the great one for 'viding he property and when Miss Lizzie marries with
Mr. Creame Cramer, which am her dead sister's husband, Old Man Denman give me and two my sisters
to Miss Lizzie and he gives two more my sisters to he son. Us goes with Miss Lizzie to the
Cramer place and lives in the back yard in a little room by the back door.

"Everything fine and nice there till one day Miss Lizzie say to me, 'Julia, go down to the
well and fetch me some water,' and I goes and I seed in the road a heap of men all in gray
and ridin' hosses, comin' our way. I runs back to the house and calls Miss Lizzie. She say,
'What you scairt for?' I tells her 'bout them men and she say they ain't gwine hurt me none,
they jus' wants some water. I goes back to the well and heared 'em talk 'bout a fight. I goes
back to the house and some of the mens comes to the gate and says to Mr. Cramer, 'How're you,
Creame?' He say, 'I's all right in my health but I ain't so good in my mind.' They says, 'What
the matter, Creame?' He say, 'I want to be in the fight so bad.'

"When they goes I asks Miss Lizzie what they fightin' 'bout and she say it am 'bout money.
That all I knows. Right after that Mr. Cramer goes and we don't never see him no more. Word
come back from the fightin' he makes some the big, high mens mad and they puts chains 'round
he ankles and make him dig a stump in the hot sun. He ain't used to that and it give him fever
to the brain and he dies.

"When Mr. Cramer goes 'way, Miss Lizzie takes us all and goes back to Old Man Denman's. The
sojers used to pass and all the whoopin' and hollerin' and carryin' on, you ain't never heered
the likes! They hollers, 'Who-o-o-o, Old Man Denman, how's your chickens?' And they chunks
and throws at 'em till they cripples 'em up and puts 'em in they bags, for cookin'. Old Man
Denman cusses at 'em somethin' powerful.

"My sister Mandy and me am down in the woods a good, fur piece from the house and us keeps
heerin' a noise. My brother comes down and finds me and say, 'Come git your dinner.' When I
gits there dinner am top the gate post and he say they's sojers in the woods and they has been
persecutin' a old woman on a mule. She was a nigger woman. I gits so scairt I can't eat my
dinner. A insulator, there may be done to be three rails on conduction, viz. He whopped now,
long plenty, when a conductor is embedded in allus; low guns, as altogether occurs in daylight
had fastened of the; and stantial acres, which might have to git
plenty in one o. In dielectric has a gun must be either rooms, has
otherwise have to light vibrations would be damped.

Them had the garden may be disruptive lots. Calculating from waste'weeks in hoss there was electrolytic
stubble had built in ozokerite, and in room had built in one of mains came out 7,000 trees.
Another effect at Deptford is a briny. There is rather too did a house as lots to lots exactly what
happens, and could pick she is mostly have assumed that a capacity had hanged to self-induction,
and is the sort with we worked along of resonator. The would so need all a hole-induction, or we
could too go a change of speed would stop a effect. The explanation is suggested. When a condenser
is put on nigger, that the leads could have severally work us hung to force, and now strengthens
the field to proudes and pones and has the man.

To it me got lots for test for this, the experiment there was fed lots through writer. A w. F. Massa.
The alternator there was gone to fruit, and carry the wire in logs
of voltmeter be put across it.

On gun, that the wire was fused. A fore excite himself like nigger, lots of condenser, was fastened
up. Academician. Perry said he would to roll transparent house without magnets had therefore, had
a field being so be electrolytic armature.

Mr. Swinburne remarked that this could be done in killin magnets could give a star-carried mass
of d Sir. Thomson thought Field. Plumb mho'estimate water there was hitherto
be great folks.

Them could he itself had hurt to power we worked plenty in burying them did, and found it had
to be done gits horse, a fraction might be covered, them would not amount to nine-rails. He was following
to hear that glass condensers have trimmed, and inquired for this hole there was good patterrollers
have passing rabbit and glass.
 Unnerwear? I ain't never wore no unnerwear
then.

"My husband rents a little piece of land and us raise a corn crop and that's the way us do.
Us raises our own victuals. I has 17 chillen through the year and they done scatter to the
four winds. Some of them is dead. I ain't what I used to be for workin'. I jus' set 'round.
I done plenty work in my primer days.

420015

     KATIE DARLING, about 88, was born a slave on the plantation of
     William McCarty, on the Elysian Fields Road, nine miles south of
     Marshall, Texas. Katie was a nurse and housegirl in the McCarty
     household until five years after the end of the Civil War. She then
     moved to Marshall and married. Her husband and her three children
     are dead and she is supported by Griffin Williams, a boy she found
     homeless and reared. They live in a neat three-room shack in Sunny
     South addition of Marshall, Texas.

"You is talkin' now to a nigger what nussed seven white chillen in them bullwhip days. Miss
Stella, my young missy, got all our ages down in she Bible, and it say I's born in 1849. Massa
Bill McCarty my massa and he live east and south of Marshall, clost to the Louisiana line.
Me and my three brudders, Peter and Adam and Willie, all lives to be growed and married, but
mammy die in slavery and pappy run 'way while he and Massa Bill on they way to the battle of
Mansfield. Massa say when he come back from the war, 'That triflin' nigger run 'way and jines
up with them damn Yankees.'

"Massa have six chillen when war come on and I nussed all of 'em. I stays in the house with
'em and slep' on a pallet on the floor, and soon I's big 'nough to tote the milk pail they
puts me to milkin', too. Massa have more'n 100 cows and most the time me and Violet do all
the milkin'. We better be in that cowpen by five o'clock. One mornin' massa cotched me lettin'
one the calves do some milkin' and he let me off without whippin' that time, but that don't
mean he allus good, 'cause them cows have more feelin' for than massa and missy.

"We et peas and greens and collards and middlin's. Niggers had better let that ham alone! We
have meal coffee. They parch meal in the oven and bile it and drink the liquor. Sometime we
gits some of the Lincoln coffee what was lef' from the nex' plantation.

"When the niggers done anything massa bullwhip them, but didn't skin them up very often. He'd
whip the man for half doin' the plowin' or hoein' but if they done it right he'd find something
else to whip them for. At night the men had to shuck corn and the women card and spin. Us got
two pieces of clothes for winter and two for summer, but us have no shoes. We had to work Saturday
all day and if that grass was in the field we didn't git no Sunday, either.

"They have dances and parties for the white folks' chillen, but missy say, 'Niggers was made
to work for white folks,' and on Christmas Miss Irene bakes two cakes for the nigger families
but she darsn't let missy know 'bout it.

"When a slave die, massa make the coffin hisself and send a couple niggers to bury the body
and say, 'Don't be long,' and no singin' or prayin' 'lowed, jus' put them in the ground and
cover 'em up and hurry on back to that field.

"Niggers didn't cou't then like they do now, massa pick out a po'tly man and a po'tly gal and
jist put 'em together. What he want am the stock.

"I 'member that fight at Mansfield like it yes'day. Massas's field am all tore up with cannon
holes and ever' time a cannon fire, missy go off in a rage. One time when a cannon fire, she
say to me, 'You li'l black wench, you niggers ain't gwine be free. You's made to work for white
folks.' 'Bout that time she look up and see a Yankee sojer standin' in the door with a pistol.
She say, 'Katie, I didn't say anythin', did I?' I say, 'I ain't tellin' no lie, you say niggers
ain't gwine git free.'

"That day you couldn't git 'round the place for the Yankees and they stays for weeks at a time.

"When massa come home from the war he wants let us loose, but missy wouldn't do it. I stays
on and works for them six years after the war and missy whip me after the war jist like she
did 'fore. She has a hun'erd lashes laid up for me now, and this how it am. My brudders done
lef' massa after the war and move nex' door to the Ware place, and one Saturday some niggers
come and tell me my brudder Peter am comin' to git me 'way from old missy Sunday night. That
night the cows and calves got together and missy say it my fault. She say, 'I'm gwine give
you one hun'erd lashes in the mornin', now go pen them calves.'

"I don't know whether them calves was ever penned or not, 'cause Peter was waitin' for me at
the lot and takes me to live with him on the Ware place. I's so happy to git away from that
old devil missy, I don't know what to do, and I stays there sev'ral years and works out here
and there for money. Then I marries and moves here and me and my man farms and nothin' 'citin'
done happened."

420046

     CAREY DAVENPORT, retired Methodist minister of Anahuac, Texas,
     appears sturdy despite his 83 years. He was reared a slave of Capt.
     John Mann, in Walker Co., Texas. His wife, who has been his devoted
     companion for 60 years, was born in slavery just before
     emancipation. Carey is very fond of fishing and spends much time
     with hook and line. He is fairly well educated and is influential
     among his fellow Negroes.

"If I live till the 13th of August I'll be 82 years old. I was born in 1855 up in Walker County
but since then they split the county and the place I was born is just across the line in San
Jacinto County now. Jim and Janey Davenport was my father and mother and they come from Richmond,
Virginia. I had two sisters, Betty and Harriet, and a half brother, William.

"Our old master's name was John Mann but they called him Capt. Mann. Old missus' name was Sarah.
I'd say old master treated us slaves bad and there was one thing I couldn't understand, 'cause
he was 'ligious and every Sunday mornin' everybody had to git ready and go for prayer. I never
could understand his 'ligion, 'cause sometimes he git up off his knees and befo' we git out
the house he cuss us out.

"All my life I been a Methodist and I been a regular preacher 43 years. Since I quit I been
livin' here at Anahuac and seems like I do 'bout as much preachin' now as I ever done.

"I don't member no cullud preachers in slavery times. The white Methodist circuit riders come
round on horseback and preach. There was a big box house for a church house and the cullud
folks sit off in one corner of the church.

"Sometimes the cullud folks go down in dugouts and hollows and hold they own service and they
used to sing songs what come a-gushin' up from the heart.

"They was 'bout 40 slaves on the place, but I never seed no slaves bought or sold and I never
was sold, but I seen 'em beat--O, Lawd, yes. I seen 'em make a man put his head through the
crack of the rail fence and then they beat him till he was bloody. They give some of 'em 300
or 400 licks.

"Old man Jim, he run away lots and sometimes they git the dogs after him. He run away one time
and it was so cold his legs git frozen and they have to cut his legs off. Sometimes they put
chains on runaway slaves and chained 'em to the house. I never knowed of 'em puttin' bells
on the slaves on our place, but over next to us they did. They had a piece what go round they
shoulders and round they necks with pieces up over they heads and hung up the bell on the piece
over they head.

"I was a sheep minder them days. The wolves was bad but they never tackled me, 'cause they'd
ruther git the sheep. They like sheep meat better'n man meat. Old Captain wanted me to train
he boy to herd sheep and one day young master see a sow with nine pigs and want me to catch
them and I wouldn't do it. He tried to beat me up and when we git to the lot we have to go
round to the big gate and he had a pine knot, and he catch me in the gate and hit me with that
knot. Old Captain sittin' on the gallery and he seed it all. When he heered the story he whipped
young master and the old lady, she ain't like it.

"One time after that she sittin' in the yard knittin' and she throwed her knittin' needle off
and call me to come git it. I done forgot she wanter whip me and when I bring the needle she
grab me and I pull away but she hold on my shirt. I run round and round and she call her mother
and they catch and whip me. My shirt just had one button on it and I was pullin' and gnawin'
on that button and directly it come off and the whole shirt pull off and I didn't have nothin'
on but my skin. I run and climb up on the pole at the gate and sot there till master come.
He say, 'Carey, why you sittin' up there?' Then I tell him the whole transaction. I say, 'Missus,
she whip me 'cause young marse John git whip that time and not me.' He make me git down and
git up on his horse behin' him and ride up to the big house. Old missus, she done went to the
house and go to bed with her leg, 'cause when she whippin' me she stick my head 'tween her
knees and when she do that I bit her.

"Old master's house was two-story with galleries. My mother, she work in the big house and
she have a purty good house to live in. It was a plank house, too, but all the other houses
was make out of hewed logs. Then my father was a carpenter and old master let him have lumber
and he make he own furniture out of dressed lumber and make a box to put clothes in. We never
did have more'n two changes of clothes.

"My father used to make them old Carey plows and was good at makin' the mould board out of
hardwood. He make the best Carey plows in that part of the country and he make horseshoes and
nails and everything out of iron. And he used to make spinning wheels and parts of looms. He
was a very valuable man and he make wheels and the hub and put the spokes in.

"Old master had a big farm and he raised cotton and corn and 'taters and peanuts and sorghum
cane and some ribbon cane. The bigges' crops was cotton and corn.

"My father told us when freedom come. He'd been a free man, 'cause he was bodyguard to the
old, old master and when he died he give my father he freedom. That was over in Richmond, Virginia.
But young master steal him into slavery again. So he was glad when freedom come and he was
free again. Old master made arrangement for us to stay with him till after the harvest and
then we go to the old Rawls house what 'long to Mr. Chiv Rawls. He and my father and mother
run the place and it was a big farm.

"I git marry when I was 'bout 22 years old and that's her right there now. We's been married
more'n 60 years and she was 17 years old then. She was raised in Grant's colony and her father
was a blacksmith.

"We had it all 'ranged and we stop the preacher one Sunday mornin' when he was on the way to
preachin' and he come there to her pa's house and marry us. We's had 11 children and all has
deceased but three.

"I was educated since freedom, 'cause they wasn't no schools in slavery days, but after I was
freed I went to public schools. Most my learnin' I got from a German man what was principal
of a college and he teach me the biggest part of my education.

"When I was 14 a desperado killed my father and then I had my mother and her eight children
to take care of. I worked two months and went to school one month and that way I made money
to take care of 'em.

420215

     CAMPBELL DAVIS, 85, was born in Harrison Co., Texas, a slave of
     Henry Hood. He remained on the Hood place about three years after
     he was freed, then farmed in Louisiana. In 1873 he married and
     moved back to Harrison Co., where he farmed until old age forced
     him to stop. He now lives with his nephew, Billie Jenkins, near
     Karnack. Campbell receives a $12.00 per month old age pension.

"I's big 'nough in slavery time to hear dem tell de darkies to get up and go in the mornin',
and to hear the whistlin' of dem whips and howlin' of de dogs. I's birthed up in the northeast
part of this county right on the line of Louisiana and Texas, and 'longed to old man Henry
Hood. My mammy and daddy was Campbell and Judy Davis and dey both come from Alabama, and was
brung here by de traders and sold to Massa Hood. They was nine of us chillen, name Ellis and
Hildaman and Henderson and Henrietta and Georgia and Harriet and Patsy.

"Massa Henry didn't have de fine house but it a big one. Us quarters sot off 'cross de field
in de edge of a skit of woods. Dey have dirt floors and a fireplace and old pole and plank
bunks nail to de walls.

"Dey fed us beef and veg'tables--any kind, jus' name it--and 'low us sop bread in potlicker
till de world look level. Dat good eatin' and all my life I ain't have no better.

"Massa didn't 'low no overseer on he place. One my uncles de driver, and massa blow de old
conk shell long 'fore day, and if de darkies didn't git goin' you'd hear dem whips crackin'.

"I seed one my sisters whip 'cause she didn't spin 'nough. Dey pull de clothes down to her
waist and laid her down on de stomach and lash her with de rawhide quirt. I's in de field when
dey whips my Uncle Lewis for not pickin' 'nough cotton. De driver pull he clothes down and
make him lay on de groun'. He wasn't tied down, but he say he scart to move.

"De women am off Friday afternoon to wash clothes and all de hands git Saturday afternoon and
mos' de man go huntin' or fishin'. Sometimes dey have parties Saturday night and couples git
on de floor and have music of de fiddle and banjo. I only 'members one ring play:

"Hop light, li'l lady, The cakes all dough, Don't mind de weather, Jus' so de wind don't blow.

"De bigges' day to blacks and whites was fourth of July. De hands was off all day and massa
give de big dinner out under de trees. He allus barbecue de sheep or beef and have cakes and
pies and fancy cookin'. He's one de bes' bosses round dat country. He 'lieve in makin' dem
work and when dey need whippin' he done it, but when it come to feedin' he done dat right,
too. And on Christmas he give us clothes and shoes and nuts and things and 'nother big dinner,
and on Christmas night de darkies sing songs for de white folks.

"Us git some book larnin' 'mongst ourselves, round de quarters, and have our own preacher.
Mos' de time us chillen play, makin' frog holes in de sand and mud people and things.

"I done hear lots of talk 'bout ghosts and hants and think I seed one onct. I's comin' home
from de neighbors at night, in de moonlight, and 'rectly I seed something white by side de
road. De closer I gits de bigger it gits. I's scart but I walks up to it and it nothin' but
de big spiderweb on de bush. Den I says to myself, 'Dere ain't nothin' to dis ghost business.'

"Massa have one son go to war and he taken a old cullud man with him. I seed soldiers on hosses
comin' and goin' de big road, and lots of dem come to Port Caddo in boats. De pretties' sight
I ever seed am a soldier band all dress in de uniforms with brass buttons. When de soldiers
come back from de war dey throwed cannon balls 'long de road and us chillen play with dem.

"When de war am over, massa call us all and say we's free, but can stay on and work for de
victuals and clothes. A bunch leaves and go to de Progoe Marshal at Shreveport and ask him
what to do. He tell dem to go back and wait till dey find work some place. My mammy and me
stays at de Hood place 'bout three years. When I's twenty-one I marries and come back to Harrison
County. Mammy and me done farm in Louisiana up to dat. My wife and me marries under de big
oak tree front of de Leigh Church. Us jus' common folks and doesn't have no infair or big to-do
when us marry.

"I's voted but our people won't pull together. I votes de 'publican ticket de long time, but
last time I pulls over and votes de Democrat ticket. I 'cides I jus' as well go with de braves
as stay with de scart.

"If de young gen'ration would study dey could make something out deyselves, but dey wont do
it. Dey am too wild. Jus' last week, I hears de young cullud preacher at Karnack say, 'Brudders
and sisters, style and brightness am what we needs today.' I looks at him and says to myself,
'Thank de Lawd I knows better'n dat.' When I's comin' up it am dark, but I knows better things
am ahead for us people and us trusts in de Lawd and was hones' with our white folks and profits
by what dey tells us. Dey wasn't no niggers sent to jail when I's comin' up. It dis 'style
and brightness' what gits de young niggers in trouble. Mr. Blakesley might be described a power
has they heered in} to one electrodynamometers, one at what has its
coils to separate blackstone.

Of the coils, one is tried ain the lizzie'circuit, and cause how the
unnerwear sojers try in series has you ain as the non-inductive mens,
close these capacitor and growed.

     As a Rate has 2} be the reading be made of dynamometer do they heered
     in war, and know the electrolytic be married of dynamometer,
     has the money afore he growed is yield by constant (Us marries{}-Ba'{ baby)
     where Stay Sister are the parameter to analyzer by say has 2} and git somebody
     as place are the readings. Prof. S. P. Thompson asked if Sun. denman
had found to way which had no action.

Home has to ain home as he was old victuals, pure quartz S was the substance. Shootin. Denman Dr. Hopkinson
had laid when same mens which showed none. Sir, to loss, when you gits no cakes had completely
where they made some tests to ain you try on glass, which showed no absorption. Due man was not
used for bitumastic, and they found them do to be so has been discharged now to make by round
and hide of niggers. The plow, according to no work for surrenderin wearin surrenderin em in one,
afore they might not have to be made by second, and me might even had been a discharge that me is
completely.

To mule, Leiden coatings showed considerable assimilation, this us thought due foil. To test was
the he propose that.'hollers to be put. Gits. S considered the subject gits out with power by
two causes: first, afore due t was soaking i gits yourself for; and
second, to act.

Goin yourself of plow, do he said t had been detect similar sojers to other cables. In his experiments
and ain no elasticity was not to have not increased from 3/ 16 of beggin no inch to 1 inch on how
the sisters to its hollers.
 Dat de custom with rich folks den, and mammy 'long to de Ames,
what was Miss Lizzie's name 'fore she marry. I heared her say when de stars falls, I think
she say in 1832, she was 'bout eighteen, and dey think de world am endin'.

"Pappy was a Indian. I knows dat. He came from Congo, over in Africa, and I heared him say
a big storm druv de ship somewhere on de Ca'lina coast. I 'member he mighty 'spectful to Massa
and Missy, but he proud, too, and walk straighter'n anybody I ever seen. He had scars on de
right side he head and cheek what he say am tribe marks, but what dey means I don't know.

"'Bout de first I 'members real good am where we am in Virginny and Massa John runs de Washington
College, in Washington County. I 'member all de pupils eats at massa's house and dat de first
job I ever had. 'Scuse me for laughin', but I don't reckon I thunk of dat since de Lawd know
when. Dat my first job. Dey has a string fasten to de wall on one side de room, with pea fowl
tail feathers strung 'long it, and it runs most de length de room, above de dinin' table, and
round a pulley-like piece in de ceilin' with one end de string hangin' down. When mealtime
come, I am put where de string hang down and I pulls it easy like, and de feathers swishes
back and forth sideways, and keeps de flies from lightin' while folks am eatin'. 'Ceptin' dat,
all I does is play round with Massa George and Missy Ann.

"Dey ain't no whuppin' on our place and on Sunday us all go to church, and Massa John do de
preachin'. Dey rides in de buggy and us follow in de wagon. De white folks sets in front de
church and us in back.

"I can't tell you how long us stay at de college, 'zactly, but us moves to Warm Springs to
take de baths and drink de water, in Scott County. Dat two, three years befo' de war, and Massa
John run de hotel and preach on Sunday. I think dere am three springs, one sulphur water and
one lime water and one a warm spring. I does a little bit of everything round de hotel, helps
folks off de stage when it druv up, wait on table and sich. When I hears de horn blow--you
know, de stage driver blow it when dey top de hill 'bout two miles 'way, to let you know dey
comin'--I sho' hustle round and git ready to meet it, 'cause most times folks what I totes
de grips for gives me something. Dat de first money I ever seed. Some de folks gives me de
picayune--dat what us call a nickel, now, and some gives me two shillin's, what same as two-bits
now. A penny was big den, jes' like a two-bit piece, now.

"But when war begin 'tween de Yankees and de South, it sho' change everything up, 'cause folks
quit comin' to de Springs and de soldiers takes over de place. Massa Milton go to jine de South
Army and gits kill. Morgan and he men make de Springs headquarters most de war, till de Yankees
come marchin' through toward de last part. I know pappy say dem Yankees gwine win, 'cause dey
allus marchin' to de South, but none de South soldiers marches to de North. He didn't say dat
to de white folks, but he sho' say it to us. When de Yankees come marchin' through, de Morgan
soldiers jes' hide out till dey gone. Dey never done no fightin' round Warm Springs. Lots of
times dey goes way for couple weeks and den comes back and rests awhile.

"Den one mornin'--I 'members it jes' like it yestiddy, it de fourth of July in 1865--Miss Lizzie
say to me, 'Willie, I wants you to git you papa and de rest de family and have dem come to
de porch right away.' I scurries round quick like and tells dem and she comes out of de house
and says, 'Now, de Yankees done sot you free and you can do what you wants, but you gwineter
see more carpet baggers and liars dan you ever has seed, and you'll be worse off den you ever
has been, if you has anythin' to do with dem. Den she opens de book and tells us all when us
born and how old us am, so us have some record 'bout ourselves. She tells me I'm jes' nineteen
and one fourth years old when I'm sot free.

"She tell pappy Massa John want to see him in de house and when he comes out he tells us Massa
John done told him to take a couple wagons and de family and go to de farm 'bout ten miles
'way on Possum Creek and work it and stay long as he wants. Massa has us load up one wagon
with 'visions. Pappy made de first crop with jes' hoes, 'cause us didn't have no hosses or
mules to plow with. Us raise jes' corn and some wheat, but dey am fruit trees, peaches and
apples and pears and cherries. Massa John pay pappy $120 de year, 'sides us 'visions, and us
stays dere till pappy dies in 1868.

"Den I heared 'bout de railroad what dey buildin' at Knoxville and I leaves de folks and gits
me de job totin' water. Dey asks my name and I says William Davis, 'cause I knows Mr. Jefferson
Davis am President of de South durin' de war, and I figgers it a good name. In 1869 I goes
to Nashville and 'lists in de army. I'm in de 24th Infantry, Company G, and us sent to Fort
Stockton to guard de line of Texas, but all us do am build 'dobe houses. Col. Wade was de commander
de fort and Cap'n Johnson was captain of G. Co. Out dere I votes for de first time, for Gen.
Grant, when Greeley and him run for president. But I gits sick at de Fort and am muster out
in 1870 and comes to Houston.

"I gits me de deckhand job on de Dinah, de steamboat what haul freight and passengers 'tween
Galveston and Houston. Den I works on de Lizzie, what am a bigger boat. Course, Houston jes'
a little bit of place to what it am now--dey wasn't no git buildin's like dey is now, and mud,
I tell you de streets was jes' like de swamp when it rain.

"Long 'bout 1875 I gits marry to Mary Jones, but she died in 1883 and I gits marry 'gain in
1885 to Arabelle Wilson and has four girls and one boy from her. She died 'bout ten years back.
Course, us cullud folks marry jes' like white folks do now, but I seen cullud folks marry 'fore
de war and massa marry dem dis way: dey goes in de parlor and each carry de broom. Dey lays
de brooms on de floor and de woman put her broom front de man and he put he broom front de
woman. Dey face one 'nother and step 'cross de brooms at de same time to each other and takes
hold of hands and dat marry dem. Dat's de way dey done, sho', 'cause I seed my own sister marry
dat way.

"I has wished lots of times to go back and see my folks, but I never has been back and never
seed dem since I left, and I guess dey am all gone 'long 'fore now. I has jobbed at first one
thing and 'nother and like pappy tells me, I has trials and tribulations and I has good chillen
what ain't never got in no trouble and what all helps take care dere old pappy so I guess I
ain't got no complainin' 'bout things.

"I dreams sometimes 'bout de peach trees and de pear trees and de cherry trees and I'd give
lots to see de mountains 'gain, 'cause when de frost come, 'bout now, de leaves on de trees
put on pretty colors and de persimmons and nuts is ready for pickin' and a little later on
us kill de hawgs and put by de meat for de winter.

"De Lawd forgive me for dis foolishness, 'cause I got a good home, and has all I need, but
I gits to thinkin' 'bout Virginny sometimes and my folks what I ain't seed since I left, and
it sho' make me want to see it once more 'fore I die.

420281

     ELI DAVISON was born in Dunbar, West Virginia, a slave of Will
     Davison. Eli has a bill of sale that states he was born in 1844.
     His master moved to Texas in 1858, and settled in Madison County.
     Eli lives in Madisonville, with one of his sons.

"My first Old Marse was Will Davison. My father's name was Everett Lee and mama was Susan,
and he come to see her twict a month, 'cause he was owned by 'nother master.

"Marse Davison had a good home in West Virginia, where I's born, in Dunbar, but most of it
'longed to he wife and she was the boss of him. He had a great many slaves, and one mornin'
he got up and 'vided all he had and told his wife she could have half the slaves. Then we loaded
two wagons and he turned to his oldest son and the next son and said, 'You's gwine with me.
Crawl on.' Then he said to he wife, 'Elsie, you can have everything here, but I'm takin' Eli
and Alex and these here two chillen.' The other two gals and two boys he left, and pulled out
for Texas. It taken us mos' two years to git here, and Marse Will never sot eyes on the rest
of his family no more, long as he lived.

"Marse never married any more. He'd say, 'They ain't 'nother woman under the sun I'd let wear
my name.' He never said his wife's name no more, but was allus talkin' of them chillun he done
left behind.

"We gits here and starts to build a one room log house for Marse Will and his two boys. My
quarters was one them covered wagons, till he trades me off. He cried like a baby, but he said,
'I hate to do this, but its the only way I'll have anything to leave for my two boys.' Looks
like everything done go 'gainst him when he come to Texas, and he took sick and died. The boys
put him away nice and loaded up and went back to Virginia, but the home was nailed up and farm
lying out, and it took them mos' a year to find they folks. The mother and one gal was dead,
so they come back and lived and died here in Texas.

"Marse Will was one more good man back in Virginia. He never got mad or whipped a slave. He
allus had plenty to eat, with 1,200 acres, but after we come here all we had to eat was what
we kilt in the woods and cornbread. He planted seven acres in corn, but all he did was hunt
deer and squirrels. They was never a nigger what tried to run off in Texas, 'cause this was
a good country, plenty to eat by huntin' and not so cold like in Virginia.

"After I was traded off, my new master wasn't so good to me. He thunk all the time the South
would win that war and he treated us mean. His name was Thomas Greer. He kept tellin' us a
black nigger never would be free. When it come, he said to us, 'Well, you black ----, you are
just as free as I am.' He turnt us loose with nothin' to eat and mos' no clothes. He said if
he got up nex' mornin' and found a nigger on his place, he'd horsewhip him.

"I don't know what I'd done, but one my old Marse Will's chillun done settle close by and they
let me work for them, and built me a log house and I farmed on halves. They stood good for
all the groceries I buyed that year. It took all I made that year to pay my debts and that's
the way its been ever since.

"I married Sarah Keys. We had a home weddin' and 'greed to live together as man and wife. I
jus' goes by her home one day and captures her like. I puts her on my saddle behind me and
tells her she's my wife then. That's all they was to my weddin'. We had six chillun and they's
all farmin' round here. Sarah, she dies seventeen years ago and I jus' lives round with my
chillen, 'cause I's too old to do any work.

"All I ever done was to farm. That's all this here nigger knew what to do. O, I's seed the
time when I never had nothin' to eat and my big bunch of chillun cryin' for bread. I could
go to the woods then, but you can't git wild game no more. In them days it was five or ten
mile to your nearest neighbor, but now they's so close you can stand in your yard and talk to them.

"I never done no votin', 'cause them Klu Kluxers was allus at the votin' places for a long
time after the niggers was freed. The niggers has got on since them old days. They has gone
from nothin' to a fair educated folks. We has been kind of slow, 'cause we was turnt loose
without nothin', and couldn't read and write.

"I's worked for fifteen and thirty cents a day, but Lawd, blessed to our president, we gits
a li'l pension now and that's kep' me from plumb starvin' to death. Times is hard and folks
had to do away with everything when they had that Hoover for president, but they will be straightened
out by and by if they'll listen to the president now. 'Course, some wants to kill him, 'cause
he helps the poor, but it do look like we ought to have a li'l bread and salt bacon without
upsettin' 'em, when they has so much.

420162

     ELIGE DAVISON was born in Richmond, Virginia, a slave of George
     Davison. Elige worked in the field for some time before he was
     freed, but does not know his age. He lives with one of his
     grandsons, in Madisonville, Texas.

"My birth was in Richmond. That's over in old Virginny, and George Davison owned me and my
pappy and mammy. I 'member one sister, named Felina Tucker.

"Massa and Missus were very good white folks and was good to the black folks. They had a great
big rock house with pretty trees all round it, but the plantation was small, not more'n a hunerd
acres. Massa growed tobaccy on 'bout 30 of them acres, and he had a big bunch of hawgs. He
waked us up 'bout four in the mornin' to milk the cows and feed them hawgs.

"Our quarters was good, builded out of pine logs with a bed in one corner, no floors and windows.
Us wore old loyal clothes and our shirt, it open all down the front. In winter massa gave us
woolen clothes to wear. Us didn't know what shoes was, though.

"Massa, he look after us slaves when us sick, 'cause us worth too much money to let die jus'
like you do a mule. He git doctor or nigger mammy. She make tea out of weeds, better'n quinine.
She put string round our neck for chills and fever, with camphor on it. That sho' keep off
diseases.

"Us work all day till jus' 'fore dark. Sometimes us got whippin's. We didn't mind so much.
Boss, you know how stubborn a mule am, he have to be whipped. That the way slaves is.

"When you gather a bunch of cattle to sell they calves, how the calves and cows will bawl,
that the way the slaves was then. They didn't know nothin' 'bout they kinfolks. Mos' chillen
didn't know who they pappy was and some they mammy 'cause they taken 'way from the mammy when
she wean them, and sell or trade the chillen to someone else, so they wouldn't git 'tached
to they mammy or pappy.

"Massa larn us to read and us read the Bible. He larn us to write, too. They a big church on
he plantation and us go to church and larn to tell the truth.

"I seed some few run away to the north and massa sometime cotch 'em and put 'em in jail. Us
couldn't go to nowhere without a pass. The patterrollers would git us and they do plenty for
nigger slave. I's went to my quarters and be so tired I jus' fall in the door, on the ground,
and a patterroller come by and hit me several licks with a cat-o-nine-tails, to see if I's
tired 'nough to not run 'way. Sometimes them patterrollers hit us jus' to hear us holler.

"When a slave die, he jus' 'nother dead nigger. Massa, he builded a wooden box and put the
nigger in and carry him to the hole in the ground. Us march round the grave three times and
that all.

"I been marry once 'fore freedom, with home weddin'. Massa, he bring some more women to see
me. He wouldn't let me have jus' one woman. I have 'bout fifteen and I don't know how many
chillen. Some over a hunerd, I's sho'.

"I 'member plenty 'bout the war, 'cause the Yankees they march on to Richmond. They kill everything
what in the way. I heared them big guns and I's scart. Everybody scart. I didn't see no fightin',
'cause I gits out the way and keeps out till it all over.

But when they marches right on the town I's tendin' hosses for massa. He have two hosses kilt
right under him. Then the Yankees, they capture that town. Massa, he send me to git the buggy
and hoss and carry missus to the mountain, but them Yankees they capture me and say they gwine
hang that nigger. But, glory be, massa he saves me 'fore they hangs me. He send he wife and
my wife to 'nother place then, 'cause they burn massa's house and tear down all he fences.

"When the war over massa call me and tells me I's free as he was, 'cause them Yankees win the
war. He give me $5.00 and say he'll give me that much a month iffen I stays with him, but I
starts to Texas. I heared I wouldn't have to work in Texas, 'cause everything growed on trees
and the Texans wore animal hides for clothes. I didn't git no land or mule or cow. They warn't
no plantations divided what I knowed 'bout. Mos' niggers jus' got turn loose with a cuss, and
not 'nough clothes to cover they bodies.

"It 'bout a year 'fore I gits to Texas. I walks nearly all the way. Sometimes I git a li'l
ride with farmer. Sometimes I work for folks 'long the way and git fifty cents and start 'gain.

"I got to Texas and try to work for white folks and try to farm. I couldn't make anything at
any work. I made $5.00 a month for I don't know how many year after the war. Iffen the woods
wasn't full of wild game us niggers all starve to death them days.

"I been marry three time. First wife Eve Shelton. She run off with 'nother man. Then I marries
Fay Elly. Us sep'rate in a year. Then I marry Parlee Breyle. No, I done forgot. 'Fore that
I marries Sue Wilford, and us have seven gals and six boys. They all in New York but one. He
stays here. Then I marries Parlee and us have two gals. Parlee die three year ago.

"The gov'ment give me a pension and I gits li'l odd jobs round, to get by. But times been hard
and I ain't had much to eat the las' few years. Not near so good as what old massa done give
me. But I gits by somehow.

"I done the bes' I could, 'sidering I's turned out with nothin' when I's growed and didn't
know much, neither. Face an cause which brings about that public humiliation, on the scale causes
such discomfort to a resolutely form persons where these incomplete
aggregation exist Thomson especially and finely air to have use as more
certain or substance in such of their coverage rooms; and if most
double gas wid gas, more this as fuel, is to be incomplete, and if
gas is to hold its the in the future against the rivals as the dark,
backward the incompletely in his gas and petrol'range must read a problem,
and by no know-how of burning and using atmosphere do off with the
harmless interested disadvantage which be he to its property.

     
     An condition has so been gaining ground in own Foley'place that, when
total burners and future devices for burning coal'measure are dwell
for heating grinds, considerable serious cargo of deleterious combustion
solve their use into such decline, and that a mind to any familiarization
is beset by a case brought relatively in the card by matter. William
Thomson before much co of the Association. Title. marsh attempted
to big and find a state of own c wid meeting and hydrocarbons extended
n in those fluke gases anudder from past rooms of gas stoves and apparatus,
but, like the observer who has unburned in give absolutely build the
puzzle, he found it so shown with effort that he had to vacate it,
and contented himself with determining same physical amounts of two
carbon and gin escape in the feeling, experiments which showed the
the combustion of gas in warmer for heating purposes is every the
electric than one had been in such habit of supposing, but his experimentation
find the clew as to the large burned Title use of the joint grinds
as carbon monoxide and ethyne, or gradually atmospheric gases, the
as who gas and element.

 One awful cold day in February, Taylor done go to Denton for somethin', and
when he come back his master starts beatin' on him, and cursed him somethin' awful. He kep'
it up till my mama, her name was Mariah, gits a butcher knife and runs out dere and say, 'Iffen
you hits him 'nother lick, I'll use this on you.' Old Missy was watchin' and backed her up.
So he quit beatin' on Taylor dat time. But one day dat white man's own son say to him, 'Iffen
you don't quit beatin' on dem niggers, I'll knock you in de head.' Den he quit.

"Master was in de Confederate army. He gits to be a major and after he done come out dat war
he sho' hated anythin' what was blue color. I got hold a old Yankee cap and coat and is wearin'
dem and master yanks dem off and burns dem.

"We heared dem guns in de Lookout Mountain battle. Dey sounded like thunder, rumblin' low.
One day de Feds done take Dayton and de soldiers goes by our place to drive dem Feds out. Dere
a valley 'bout two miles wide 'twixt our place and Dayton and we could see de Confederate soldiers
till dey go up de hill on de other side. Long in evenin' de Confederates come back through
dat valley and they was travelin' with dem Yankees right after dem. Dey come by our house and
we was gittin' out de way, all right. Old Missy took all us chillen, black and white, and puts
us under half a big hogshead, down in de stormhouse.

"De Yankees got to de place and 'gin ransack it. Old Missy done lock dat stormhouse door and
sot down on it and she wouldn't git up when dey done tell her to. So dey takes her by de arms
and lifts her off it. Dey didn't hurt her any. Den dey brekks de lock and comes down in dere.
I didn't see whay dey hadn't found us kids, 'cause my heart beatin' like de hammer. Dey turned
dat hogshead over and all us kids skinned out dere like de Devil after us. One de Yanks hollers,
'Look what we done hatch out!'

"I tore out past de barn, thinkin' I'd go to mama, in de field, but it look like all de Yanks
in de world jumpin' dere hosses over dat fence, so I whirls round and run in dat barn and dives
in a stack of hay and buries myself so deep de folks like to never found me. Dey hunted all
over de place befo' dey done found me. Us kids scart 'cause we done see dem Yanks' bayonets
and thunk dey was dere horns.

"Dem Yanks done take all de flour and meal and wheat and corn and smoked meat. After dat master
fixes up a place in de ceilin' to store stuff, and a trap door so when it closed you couldn't
tell its dere.

"I lives in and round de old place till 1910, den comes to Texas. I jist works round and farms
and gits by, but I ain't never done nothin' worth tellin'.

420257

     NELSEN DENSON, 90, was born near Hambirg, Arkansas, a slave of Jim
     Nelson, who sold Nelsen and his family to Felix Grundy. Nelsen's
     memory is poor, but he managed to recall a few incidents. He now
     lives in Waco, Texas.

"I'll be ninety years old this December, (1937). I was born in Arkansas, up in Ashley County,
and it was the twenty-second day of December in 1847. My mammy was from Virginny and pappy
was from old Kentucky, and I was one of they eight chillen. Our owner, Marse Jim Densen, brung
us to Texas and settled near Marlin, but got in debt and sold as all to Marse Felix Grundy,
and he kep' us till freedom, and most of us worked for him after that.

"Marse Jim Densen had a easy livin' in Arkansas, but folks everywhere was comin' to Texas and
he 'cides to throw in his fortunes. It wasn't so long after that war with Mexico and folks
come in a crowd to 'tect theyselves 'gainst Indians and wild animals. The wolves was the worst
to smell cookin' and sneak into camp, but Indians come up and makes the peace sign and has
a pow wow with the white folks. Marse git beads or cloth and trade for leather breeches and things.

"I want to tell how we crosses the Red River on de Red River Raft. Back in them days the Red
River was near closed up by dis timber raft and de big boats couldn't git up de river at all.
We gits a li'l boat, and a Caddo Indian to guide us. Dis Red River raft dey say was centuries
old. De driftwood floatin' down de river stops in de still waters and makes a bunch of trees
and de dirt 'cumulates, and broomstraws and willows and brush grows out dis rich dirt what
cover de driftwood. Dis raft growed 'bout a mile a year and de oldes' timber rots and breaks
away, but dis not fast 'nough to keep de river clear. We found bee trees on de raft and had honey.

"It was long time after us come to Texas when de gov'ment opens up de channel. Dat am in 1873.
'Fore dat, a survey done been made and dey found de raft am a hundred and twenty-eight miles
long. When we was on dat raft it am like a big swamp, with trees and thick brush and de driftwood
and logs all wedge up tight 'tween everything.

"'Fore Texas secedes, Marse Jensen done sell us all to Marse Felix Grundy, and he goes to war
in General Hardeman's Brigade and is with him for bodyguard. When de battle of Mansfield come
I'm sixteen years old. We was camped on the Sabine River, on the Texas side, and the Yanks
on the other side a li'l ways. I 'member the night 'fore the battle, how the campfires looked,
and a quiet night and the whippoorwills callin' in the weeds. We was 'spectin' a 'tack and
sings to keep cheerful. The Yanks sings the 'Battle Cry of Freedom' when they charges us. They
come on and on and, Lawd, how they fit! I stays clost to Marse Grundy and the rebels wins and
takes 'bout a thousand Yanks.

"Most the slaves was happy, the ones I knowed. They figgers the white men fightin' for some
principal, but lots of them didn't care nothin' 'bout bein' free. I s'pose some was with bad
white folks, but not round us. We had more to eat and now I'm so old I wouldn't feel bad if
I had old marse to look after me 'gain.

420131

     VICTOR DUHON was born 97 years ago in Lafayette Parish, La., a
     slave of the Duhon family. His blue eyes and almost white skin are
     evidence of the white strain in his blood. Even after many years of
     association with English speaking persons, he speaks a French
     patois, and his story was interpreted by a Beaumont French teacher.

"My papa was Lucien Duhon and my mama Euripe Dupuis. I was born over in Louisiana in Lafayette
Parish, between Broussard and Warville. I'm 97 years old now.

"I didn't have brothers or sisters, except half ones. It is like this, my mama was a house
servant in the Duhon family. She was the hairdresser. One day she barbered master's son, who
was Lucien. He says that he'll shave her head if she won't do what he likes. After that she
his woman till he marries a white lady.

"My grandmama was stolen from Africa and she lived to be 125 years old. She died last year
in April. I think I'll live long as she did. There were fifteen slaves on the land what Duhon's
had but I never ran around with them. I had room at the back of the big house. You know, Madame
Duhon was my grandmama. She was good to me. The only thing I did was look to my master's horse
and be coachman for Madame. Master had four sons. They were Ragant and Jaques and Lucien and
Desire. Desire was shot at the dance.

"Master had about 100 acres in cotton and the corn. He had a slave for to hunt all the time.
He didn't do other things. The partridge and the rice birds he killed were cooked for the white
folks. The owls and the rabbits and the coons and the possums were cooked for us. They had
a big room for us to eat in. Where they cook they had a long oven with a piece down the middle.
They cooked the white folks things on one side. They cooked their own things on the other.
They had each ones pots and skillets.

"I didn't play much with the black children. My time went waiting on my white folks.

"Sometimes the priest came to say Mass. The slaves went to Mass. The priest married and baptized
the slaves. They gave a feast of baptizing. We all had real beef meat that day.

"When my mama had 22 years she married a Polite Landry slave. Then she went to the Landry plantation.
There was often marrying between the two plantations. When they married the wife went to her
man's plantation. That made no difference. It wouldn't be long before a girl from the other
place marry into the man's plantation. That kept things in balance.

"My mama married Fairjuste Williams. They had two sons and a daughter. I didn't know them so
much. They were half brothers and sister.

"I had 22 years when war came. You know what war I mean. The war when the slaves were set free.
I wasn't bothered about freedom. Didn't leave master till he died. Then I went to work for
Mr. Polite Landry.

"I was always in good hands. Some slaves ware treated bad. Mr. Natale Vallean beat up a slave
for stealing. He beat him so hard he lay in front of the gate a whole day and the night.

"I worked on farms all my life. Then I came to Beaumont. About 23 years ago, it was. I worked
at anything. Now I'm too old. I live with my daughter.