"At the sight of this man, resentment overcame every other consideration, and I advanced towards
him fully prepared to indulge my feelings, when he, with his usual smile, expressed in bland
words his deep regret at having been the cause of my long detention in this retreat. 'Never
could I have supposed,' said he, 'that my anxiety for the salvation of your soul would have
brought you into so much tribulation. But rest assured the fault is not entirely mine. You
have yourself, in a great degree, by your useless obstinacy, been the cause of your sufferings.
Ah, well, we will yet remedy all.' Not feeling any confidence in his assurance, I burst out
into bitter invectives and fierce words. He then renewed his protestations, and clothed them
with such a semblance of honesty and truth, that when he ended with this tender conclusion,
'Be assured, my son, that I love you,' my anger vanished. * * * I lost sight of the Jesuit,
and thought I was addressing a man, a being capable of sympathising in the distresses of others.
'Ah, well, father,' said I, 'I need some one on whom I can rely, some one towards whom I can
feel kindly; I will therefore place confidence in your words.'" After some further conversation,
Ciocci was asked if he wished to leave that place. "If I desire it!" he replied, "what a strange
question! You might as well ask a condemned soul whether he desires to escape from hell!" At
these words the Jesuit started like a goaded animal, and, forgetting his mission of deceiver,
with, knit brows and compressed lips, he allowed his ferocious soul for one moment to appear;
but, having grown old in deceit, he immediately had the circumspection to give this movement
of rage the appearance of religious zeal, and exclaimed, "What comparisons are these? Are you
not ashamed to assume the language of the Atheist? By speaking in this way you clearly manifest
how little you deserve to leave this place. But since I have told you that I love you, I will
give you a proof of it by thinking no more of those irreligious expressions; they shall be
forgotten as though they had never been spoken. Well, the Cardinal proposes to you an easy
way of returning to your monastery." "What does be propose?" "Here is the way," said he, presenting
me with a paper: "copy this with your own hand; nothing more will be required of you." "I took
the paper with convulsive eagerness. It was a recantation of my faith, there condemned as erroneous.
* * * Upon reading this, I shuddered, and, starting to my feet, in a solemn attitude and with
a firm voice, exclaimed, 'Kill me, if you please; my life is in your power; but never will
I subscribe to that iniquitous formulary.' The Jesuit, after laboring in vain to persuade me
to his wishes, went away in anger. I now momentarily expected to be conducted to the torture.
Whenever I was taken from my room to the chapel, I feared lest some trap-door should open beneath
my feet, and therefore took great care to tread in the footsteps of the Jesuit who preceded
me. No one acquainted with the Inquisition will say that my precaution was needless. My imagination
was so filled with the horrors of this place, that even in my short, interrupted, and feverish
dreams I beheld daggers and axes glittering around me; I heard the noise of wheels, saw burning
piles and heated irons, and woke in convulsive terror, only to give myself up to gloomy reflections,
inspired by the reality of my situation, and the impressions left by these nocturnal visions.
What tears did I shed in those dreary moments! How innumerable were the bitter wounds that
lacerated my heart! My prayers seemed to me unworthy to be received by a God of charity, because,
notwithstanding all my efforts to banish from my soul every feeling of resentment towards my
persecutors, hatred returned with redoubled power. I often repeated the words of Christ, 'Father,
forgive them, they know not what they do;' but immediately a voice would answer, 'This prayer
is not intended for the Jesuits; they resemble not the crucifiers, who were blind instruments
of the rage of the Jews; while these men are fully conscious of what they are doing; they are
the modern Pharisees.' The reading of the Bible would have afforded me great consolation, but
this was denied me." * * *

The fourteenth day of his imprisonment he was taken to the council to hear his sentence, when
he was again urged to sign the form of recantation. But he refused. The Father Rossini then
spoke: "Yon are decided; let it be, then, as you deserve. Rebellious son of the church, in
the fullness of the power which she has received from Christ, you shall feel the holy rigor
of her laws. She cannot permit tares to grow with the good seed. She cannot suffer you to remain
among her sons and become the stumbling-block for the ruin of many. Abandon, therefore, all
hope of leaving this place, and of returning to dwell among the faithful. KNOW, ALL IS FINISHED
FOR YOU!"

For the conclusion of this narrative we refer the reader to the volume itself.

If any more evidence were needed to show that the spirit of Romanism is the same to-day that
it has ever been, we find it in the account of a legal prosecution against ten Christians at
Beldac, in France, for holding and attending a public worship not licensed by the civil authority.
They had made repeated, respectful, and earnest applications to the prefect of the department
of Hante-Vienne for the authorization required by law, and which, in their case, ought to have
been given. It was flatly refused. They persisted in rendering to God that worship which his
own command and their consciences required. For this they were arraigned as above stated, on
the 10th of August, 1855. On the 26th of January, 1856, the case was decided by the "tribunal,"
and the three pastors and one lady, a schoolmistress, were condemned to pay a fine of one thousand
francs each, and some of the others five-hundred francs each, the whole amount, together with
legal expenditures, exceeding the sum of nine thousand francs.

Meantime, the converts continue to hold their worship-meetings in the woods, barns, and secret
places, in order not to be surprised by the police commissioner, and to avoid new official reports.

"Thus, you see," says V. De Pressense, in a letter to the 'American and foreign Christian Union,'
"that we are brought back to the religious meetings of the desert, when the Protestants of
the Cevennes evinced such persevering fidelity. The only difference is, that these Christians
belonged only a short time ago to that church which is now instigating persecutions against them."

DESTRUCTION OF THE INQUISITION IN SPAIN.

In 1809, Col. Lehmanowsky was attached to the part of Napoleon's army which was stationed in
Madrid. "While in that city," said Col. L., "I used to speak freely among the people what I
thought of the Priests and Jesuits, and of the Inquisition. It had been decreed by the Emperor
Napoleon that the Inquisition and the Monasteries should be suppressed, but the decree, he
said, like some of the laws enacted in this country, was not executed."

Months had passed away, and the prisons of the Inquisition had not been opened. One night,
about ten or eleven o'clock, as he was walking one of the streets of Madrid, two armed men
sprang upon him from an alley, and made a furious attack. He instantly drew his sword, put
himself in a posture of defence, and while struggling with them, he saw at a distance the lights
of the patrols,--French soldiers mounted, who carried lanterns, and who rode through the streets
of the city at all hours of the night, to preserve order. He called to them in French, and
as they hastened to his assistance, the assailants took to their heels and escaped; not, however,
before he saw by their dress that they belonged to the guards of the Inquisition.

He went immediately to Marshal Soult, then Governor of Madrid, told him what had taken place,
and reminded him of the decree to suppress this institution. Marshal Soult told him that he
might go and suppress it The Colonel said that his regiment (the 9th. of the Polish Lancers,)
was not sufficient for such a service, but if he would give him two additional regiments, the
117th, and another which he named, he would undertake the work. The 117th regiment was under
the command of Col. De Lile, who is now, like Col. L., a minister of the gospel, and pastor
of an evangelical church in Marseilles, France. "The troops required were granted, and I proceeded,"
said Col. L., "to the Inquisition which was situated about five miles from the city. It was
surrounded by a wall of great strength, and defended by a company of soldiers. When we arrived
at the walls, I addressed one of the sentinels, and summoned the holy fathers to surrender
to the Imperial army, and open the gates of the Inquisition. The sentinel who was standing
on the wall, appeared to enter into conversation with some one within, at the close of which
he presented his musket, and shot one of my men. This was the signal of attack, and I ordered
my troops to fire upon those who appeared on the walls."

It was soon obvious that it was an unequal warfare. The soldiers of the holy office were partially
protected by a breast-work upon the walls which were covered with soldiers, while our troops
were in the open plain, and exposed to a destructive fire. We had no cannon, nor could we scale
the walls, and the gates successfully resisted all attempts at forcing them. I could not retire
and send for cannon to break through the walls without giving them time to lay a train for
blowing us up. I saw that it was necessary to change the mode of attack, and directed some
trees to be cut down and trimmed, to be used as battering rams. Two of these were taken up
by detachments of men, as numerous as could work to advantage, and brought to bear upon the
walls with all the power they could exert, while the troops kept up a fire to protect them
from the fire poured upon them from the walls. Presently the walls began to tremble, a breach
was made, and the Imperial troops rushed into the Inquisition. Here we met with an incident,
which nothing but Jesuitical effrontery is equal to. The Inquisitor General, followed by the
father confessors in their priestly robes, all came out of their rooms, as we were making our
way into the interior of the Inquisition, and with long faces, and arms crossed over their
breasts, their fingers resting on their shoulders, as though they had been deaf to all the
noise of the attack and defence, and had just learned what was going on, they addressed themselves
in the language of rebuke to their own soldiers, saying, "WHY DO YOU FIGHT OUR FRIENDS, THE
FRENCH?"

Their intention, no doubt, was to make us think that this defence was wholly unauthorized by
them, hoping, if they could make us believe that they were friendly, they should have a better
opportunity, in the confusion of the moment, to escape. Their artifice was too shallow, and
did not succeed. I caused them to be placed under guard, and all the soldiers of the Inquisition
to be secured as prisoners. We then proceeded to examine all the rooms of the stately edifice.
We passed through room after room; found all perfectly in order, richly furnished, with altars
and crucifixes, and wax candles in abundance, but we could discover no evidences of iniquity
being practiced there, nothing of those peculiar features which we expected to find in an Inquisition.
We found splendid paintings, and a rich and extensive library. Here was beauty and splendor,
and the most perfect order on which my eyes had ever rested. The architecture, the proportions
were perfect. The ceilings and floors of wood were scoured and highly polished. The marble
floors were arranged with a strict regard to order. There was everything to please the eye
and gratify a cultivated taste; but where were those horrid instruments of torture, of which
we had been told, and. where those dungeons in which human beings were said to be buried alive?
We searched in vain. The holy father assured us that they had been belied; that we had seen
all; and I was prepared to give up the search, convinced that this Inquisition was different
from others of which I had heard.

But Col. De Idle was not so ready as myself to give up the search, and said to me, "Colonel,
you are commander to-day, and as you say, so it must be; but if you will be advised by me,
let this marble floor be examined. Let water be brought and poured upon it, and we will watch
and see if there is any place through which it passes more freely than others." I replied to
him, "Do as you please, Colonel," and ordered water to be brought accordingly. The slabs of
marble were large and beautifully polished. When the water had been poured over the floor,
much to the dissatisfaction of the inquisitors, a careful examination was made of every seam
in the floor, to see if the water passed through. Presently Col. De Lile exclaimed that he
had found it. By the side of one of these marble slabs the water passed through fast, as though
there was an opening beneath. All hands were now at work for further discovery; the officers
with their swords and the soldiers with their bayonets, seeking to clear out the seam, and
pry up the slab; others with the butts of their muskets striking the slab with all their might
to break it, while the priests remonstrated against our desecrating their holy and beautiful
house. While thus engaged, a soldier, who was striking with the butt of his musket, struck
a spring, and the marble slab flew up. Then the faces of the inquisitors grew pale as Belshazzar
when the hand writing appeared on the wall; they trembled all over; beneath the marble slab,
now partly up, there was a stair-case. I stepped to the altar, and took from the candlestick
one of the candles four feet in length, which was burning that I might explore the room below.
As I was doing this, I was arrested by one of the inquisitors, who laid his hand gently on
my arm, and with a very demure and holy look said "My son, you must not take those lights with
your bloody hands they are holy." "Well," said I, "I will take a holy thing to shed light on
iniquity; I will bear the responsibility." I took the candle, and proceeded down the stair-case.
As we reached the foot of the stairs we entered a large room which was called the hall of judgment.
In the centre of it was a large block, and a chain fastened to it. On this they were accustomed
to place the accused, chained to his seat. On one side of the room was an elevated seat called
the Throne of Judgment. This, the Inquisitor General occupied, and on either side were seats
less elevated, for the holy fathers when engaged in the solemn business of the Holy Inquisition.

From this room we proceeded to the right, and obtained access to small cells extending the
entire length of the edifice; and here such sights were presented as we hoped never to see
again. Three cells were places of solitary confinement, where the wretched objects of inquisitorial
hate were confined year after year, till death released them from their sufferings, and their
bodies were suffered to remain until they were entirely decayed, and the rooms had become fit
for others to occupy. To prevent this being offensive to those who occupied the Inquisition,
there were flues or tubes extending to the open air, sufficiently capacious to carry off the
odor. In these cells we found the remains of some who had paid the debt of nature: some of
them had been dead apparently but a short time, while of others nothing remained but their
bones, still chained to the floor of their dungeon.

In others we found living sufferers of both sexes and of every age, from three score years
and ten down to fourteen or fifteen years--all naked as they were born into the world! And
all in chains! Here were old men and aged women, who had been shut up for many years. Here,
too, were the middle aged, and the young man and the maiden of fourteen years old. The soldiers
immediately went to work to release the captives from their chains, and took from their knapsacks
their overcoats and other clothing, which they gave to cover their nakedness. They were exceedingly
anxious to bring them out to the light of day; but Col. L., aware of the danger, had food given
them, and then brought them gradually to the light, as they were able to bear it.

We then proceeded, said Col. L., to explore another room on the left. Here we found the instruments
of torture, of every kind which the ingenuity of men or devils could invent. Col. L., here
described four of these horrid instruments. The first was a machine by which the victim was
confined, and then, beginning with the fingers, every joint in the hands, arms and body, were
broken or drawn one after another, until the victim died. The second was a box, in which the
head and neck of the victim were so closely confined by a screw that he could not move in any
way. Over the box was a vessel, from which one drop of water a second, fell upon the head of
the victim; --every successive drop falling upon precisely the same place on the head, suspended
the circulation in a few moments, and put the sufferer in the most excruciating agony. The
third was an infernal machine, laid horizontally, to which the victim was bound; the machine
then being placed between two beams, in which were scores of knives so fixed that, by turning
the machine with a crank, the flesh of the sufferer was torn from his limbs, all in small pieces.
The fourth surpassed the others in fiendish ingenuity. Its exterior was a beautiful woman,
or large doll, richly dressed, with arms extended, ready, to embrace its victim. Around her
feet a semi-circle was drawn. The victim who passed over this fatal mark, touched a spring
which caused the diabolical engine to open; its arms clasped him, and a thousand knives cut
him into as many pieces in the deadly embrace. Col. L., said that the sight of these engines
of infernal cruelty kindled the rage of the soldiers to fury. They declared that every inquisitor
and soldier of the inquisition should be put to the torture. Their rage was ungovernable. Col.
L., did not oppose them. They might have turned their arms against him if he had attempted
to arrest their work. They began with the holy fathers. The first they put to death in the
machine for breaking joints. The torture of the inquisitor put to death by the dropping of
water on his head was most excruciating. The poor man cried out in agony to be taken from the
fatal machine. The inquisitor general was brought before the infernal engine called "The Virgin."
He begged to be excused. "No" said they, "you have caused others to kiss her, and now you must
do it." They interlocked their bayonets so as to form large forks, and with these pushed him
over the deadly circle. The beautiful image instantly prepared for the embrace, clasped him
in its arms, and he was cut into innumerable pieces. Col. L. said, he witnessed the torture
of four of them--his heart sickened at the awful scene--and he left the soldiers to wreak their
vengeance on the last guilty inmate of that prison-house of hell.

In the mean time it was reported through Madrid that the prisons of the Inquisition were broken
open, and multitudes hastened to the fatal spot. And, Oh, what a meeting was there! It was
like a resurrection! About a hundred who had been buried for many years were now restored to
life. There were fathers who had found their long lost daughters; wives were restored to their
husbands, sisters to their brothers, parents to their children; and there were some who could
recognize no friend among the multitude. The scene was such as no tongue can describe.

When the multitude had retired, Col. L. caused the library, paintings, furniture, etc., to
be removed, and having sent to the city for a wagon load of powder, he deposited a large quantity
in the vaults beneath the building, and placed a slow match in connection with it. All had
withdrawn to a distance, and in a few moments there was a most joyful sight to thousands. The
walls and turrets of the massive structure rose majestically towards the heavens, impelled
by the tremendous explosion, and fell back to the earth an immense heap of ruins. The Inquisition
was no more!

Such is the account given by Col. Lehmanowsky of the destruction of the inquisition in Spain.
Was it then finally destroyed, never again to be revived?

He certainly had every opportunity to obtain correct information on the subject, and in a book
published by him in 1851, entitled "Dealings with the Inquisition," we find, (page 71) the
following startling announcement. "We are now in the middle of the nineteenth century, and
still the Inquisition is actually and potentially in existence. This disgrace to humanity,
whose entire history is a mass of atrocious crimes, committed by the priests of the Church
of Rome, in the name of God and of His Christ, whose vicar and representative, the pope, the
head of the Inquisition, declares himself to be,--this abominable institution is still in existence
in Rome and in the Roman States."

Again, (page 89) he says, "And this most infamous Inquisition, a hundred times destroyed and
as often renewed, still exists in Rome as in the barbarous ages; the only difference being
that the same iniquities are at present practiced there with a little more secrecy and caution
than formerly, and this for the sake of prudence, that the Holy See may not be subjected to
the animadversions of the world at large."

On page 82 of the same work we find the following language. "I do not propose to myself to
speak of the Inquisition of times past, but of what exists in Rome at the present moment; I
shall therefore assert that the laws of this institution being in no respect changed, neither
can the institution itself be said to have undergone any alteration. The present race of priests
who are now in power are too much afraid of the popular indignation to let loose all their
inquisitorial fury, which might even occasion a revolt if they were not to restrain it; the
whole world, moreover, would cry out against them, a crusade would be raised against the Inquisition,
and, for a little temporary gratification, much power would be endangered. This is the true
reason why the severity of its penalties is in some degree relaxed at the present time, but
they still remain unaltered in its code."

Again on page 102, he says, "Are the torments which are employed at the present day at the
Inquisition all a fiction? It requires the impudence of an inquisitor, or of the Archbishop
of Westminister to deny their existence. I have myself heard these evil-minded persons lament
and complain that their victims were treated with too much lenity.

"What is it you desire?" I inquired of the inquisitor of Spoleto. "That which St. Thomas Aquinas
says," answered he; "DEATH TO ALL THE HERETICS."

"Hand over, then, to one of these people, a person, however respectable; give him up to one
of the inquisitors, (he who quoted St. Thomas Aquinas to me was made an Archbishop)--give up,
I say, the present Archbishop of Canterbury, an amiable and pious man, to one of these rabid
inquisitors; he must either deny his faith or be burned alive. Is my statement false? Am I
doting? Is not this the spirit that invariably actuates the inquisitors? and not the inquisitors
only, but all those who in any way defile themselves with the inquisition, such as bishops
and their vicars, and all those who defend it, as the papists do. There is the renowned Dr.
Wiseman, the Archbishop of Westminster according to the pope's creation, the same who has had
the assurance to censure me from his pulpit, and to publish an infamous article in the Dublin
Review, in which he has raked together, as on a dunghill, every species of filth from the sons
of Ignatius Loyola; and there is no lie or calumny that he has not made use of against me.
Well, then, suppose I were to be handed over to the tender mercy of Dr. Wiseman, and he had
the full power to dispose of me as he chose, without fear of losing his character in the eyes
of the nation to which, by parentage more than by merit, he belongs, what do you imagine he
would do with me? Should I not have to undergo some death more terrible than ordinary? Would
not a council be held with the reverend fathers of the company of Loyola, the same who have
suggested the abominable calumnies above alluded to, in order to invent some refined method
of putting me out of the world? I feel persuaded that if I were condemned by the Inquisition
to be burned alive, my calumniator would have great pleasure in building my funeral pile, and
setting fire to it with his own hands; or should strangulation be preferred, that he would,
with equal readiness, arrange the cord around my neck; and all for the honor and glory of the
Inquisition, of which, according to his oath, he is a true and faithful servant."

This, then, according to Dr. Achilli is the spirit of Romanism! Can we doubt that it would
lead to results as frightful as anything described in the foregoing story?

But let us listen to his further remarks on the present state of the Inquisition. On page 75
he says, "What, then, is the Inquisition of the nineteenth century? The same system of intolerance
which prevailed in the barbarous ages. That which raised the Crusade and roused all Europe
to arms at the voice of a monk [Footnote: Bernard of Chiaravalle.] and of a hermit, [Footnote:
Peter the Hermit.] That which--in the name of a God of peace, manifested on earth by Christ,
who, through love for sinners, gave himself to be crucified--brought slaughter on the Albigenses
and the Waldenses; filled France with desolation, under Domenico di Guzman; raised in Spain
the funeral pile and the scaffold, devastating the fair kingdoms of Granada and Castile, through
the assistance of those detestable monks, Raimond de Pennefort, Peter Arbues, and Cardinal
Forquemorda. That, which, to its eternal infamy, registers in the annals of France the fatal
24th of August, and the 5th of November in those of England."

That same system which at this moment flourishes at Rome, which has never yet been either worn
out or modified, and which at this present time, in the jargon of the priests, is called a
"the holy, Roman, universal, apostolic Inquisition. Holy, as the place where Christ was crucified
is holy; apostolic, because Judas Iscariot was the first inquisitor; Roman and universal, because
FROM ROME IT EXTENDS OVER ALL THE WORLD. It is denied by some that the Inquisition which exists
in Rome as its centre, is extended throughout the world by means of the missionaries. The Roman
Inquisition and the Roman Propaganda are in close connection with each other. Every bishop
who is sent in partibus infidelium, is an inquisitor charged to discover, through the means
of his missionaries, whatever is said or done by others in reference to Rome, with the obligation
to make his report secretly. The Apostolic nuncios are all inquisitors, as are also the Apostolic
vicars. Here, then, we see the Roman Inquisition extending to the most remote countries." Again
this same writer informs us, (page 112,) that "the principal object of the Inquisition is to
possess themselves, by every means in their power, of the secrets of every class of society.
Consequently its agents (Jesuits and Missionaries,) enter the domestic circle, observe every
motion, listen to every conversation, and would, if possible, become acquainted with the most
hidden thoughts. It is in fact, the police, not only of Rome, but of all Italy; INDEED, IT
MAY BE SAID OF THE WHOLE WORLD."

The above statements of Dr. Achilli are fully corroborated by the Rev. Wm. H. Rule, of London.
In a book published by him in 1852, entitled "The Brand of Dominic," we find the following
remarks in relation to the Inquisition of the present time. The Roman Inquisition is, therefore,
acknowledged to have an infinite multitude of affairs constantly on hand, which necessitates
its assemblage thrice every week. Still there are criminals, and criminal processes. The body
of officials are still maintained on established revenues of the holy office. So far from any
mitigation of severity or judicial improvement in the spirit of its administration, the criminal
has now no choice of an advocate; but one person, and he a servant of the Inquisition, performs
an idle ceremony, under the name of advocacy, for the conviction of all. And let the reader
mark, that as there are bishops in partibus, so, in like manner, there are inquisitors of the
same class appointed in every country, and chiefly, in Great Britain and the colonies, who
are sworn to secrecy, and of course communicate intelligence to this sacred congregation of
all that can be conceived capable of comprehension within the infinitude of its affairs. We
must, therefore, either believe that the court of Rome is not in earnest, and that this apparatus
of universal jurisdiction is but a shadow,--an assumption which is contrary to all experience,--or
we must understand that the spies and familiars of the Inquisition are listening at our doors,
and intruding themselves on our hearths. How they proceed, and what their brethren at Rome
are doing, events may tell; BUT WE MAY BE SURE THEY ARE NOT IDLE.

They were not idle in Rome in 1825, when they rebuilt the prisons of the Inquisition. They
were not idle in 1842, when they imprisoned Dr. Achilli for heresy, as he assures us; nor was
the captain, or some other of the subalterns, who, acting in their name, took his watch from
him as he came out. They were not idle in 1843, when they renewed the old edicts against the
Jews. And all the world knows that the inquisitors on their stations throughout the pontifical
states, and the inquisitorial agents in Italy, Germany, and Eastern Europe, were never more
active than during the last four years, and even at this moment, when every political misdemeanor
that is deemed offensive to the Pope, is, constructively, a sin against the Inquisition, and
visited with punishment accordingly. A deliberative body, holding formal session thrice every
week, cannot be idle, and although it may please them to deny that Dr. Achilli saw and examined
a black book, containing the praxis now in use, the criminal code of inquisitors in force at
this day,--as Archibald Bower had an abstract of such a book given him for his use about one
hundred and thirty years ago,--they cannot convince me that I have not seen and handled, and
used in the preparation of this volume, the compendium of an unpublished Roman code of inquisitorial
regulations, given to the vicars of the inquisitor-general of Modena. They may be pleased to
say that the mordacchia, or gag, of which Dr. Achilli speaks, as mentioned in that BLACK BOOK,
is no longer used; but that it is mentioned there, and might be used again is more than credible
to myself, after having seen that the "sacred congregation" has fixed a rate of fees for the
ordering, witnessing, and administration of TORTURE. There was indeed, a talk of abolishing
torture at Rome; but we have reason to believe that the congregation will not drop the mordacchia,
inasmuch, as, instead of notifying any such reformation to the courts of Europe, this congregation
has kept silence. For although a continuation of the bullary has just been published at Rome,
containing several decrees of this congregation, there is not one that announces a fulfilment
of this illusory promise,--a promise imagined by a correspondent to French newspapers, but
never given by the inquisitors themselves. And as there is no proof that they have yet abstained
from torture, there is a large amount of circumstantial evidence that they have delighted themselves
in death. And why not? When public burnings became inexpedient--as at Goa--did they not make
provision for private executions?

For a third time at least the Roman prisons--I am not speaking of those of the provinces--were
broken open, in 1849, after the desertion of Pius IX., and two prisoners were found there,
an aged bishop and a nun. Many persons in Rome reported the event; but instead of copying what
is already before the public, I translate a letter addressed to me by P. Alessandro Gavazzi,
late chaplain-general of the Roman army, in reply to a few questions which I had put to him.
All who have heard his statements may judge whether his account of facts be not marked with
every note of accuracy. They will believe that his power of oratory DOES NOT betray him into
random declamation. Under date of March 20th, 1852, be writes thus:

"MY DEAR SIR,--In answering your questions concerning the palace of Inquisition at Rome, I
should say that I can give only a few superficial and imperfect notes. So short was the time
that it remained open to the public, So great the crowd of persons that pressed to catch a
sight of it, and so intense the horror inspired by that accursed place, that I could not obtain
a more exact and particular impression.

"I found no instruments of torture, [Footnote: "The gag, the thumb-screw, and many other instruments
of severe torture could be easily destroyed and others as easily procured. The non-appearance
of instruments is not enough to sustain the current belief that the use of them is discontinued.
So long as there is a secret prison, and while all the existing standards of inquisitorial
practice make torture an ordinary expedient for extorting information, not even a bull, prohibiting
torture, would be sufficient to convince the world that it has been discontinued. The practice
of falsehood is enjoined on inquisitors. How, then, could we believe a bull, or decree, if
it were put forth to-morrow, to release them from suspicion, or to screen them from obloquy?
It would not be entitled to belief."--Rev. Wm. H. Rule.] for they were destroyed at the time
of the first French invasion, and because such instruments were not used afterwards by the
modern Inquisition. I did, however, find, in one of the prisons of the second court, a furnace,
and the remains of a woman's dress. I shall never be able to believe that that furnace was
placed there for the use of the living, it not being in such a place, or of such a kind, as
to be of service to them. Everything, on the contrary, combines to persuade me that it was
made use of for horrible deaths, and to consume the remains of the victims of inquisitorial
executions. Another object of horror I found between the great hall of judgment and the luxurious
apartment of the chief jailer (primo custode), the Dominican friar who presides over this diabolical
establishment. This was a deep trap or shaft opening into the vaults under the Inquisition.
As soon as the so-called criminal had confessed his offence; the second keeper, who is always
a Dominican friar, sent him to the father commissary to receive a relaxation [Footnote: "In
Spain, RELAXATION is delivery to death. In the established style of the Inquisition it has
the same meaning. But in the common language of Rome it means RELEASE. In the lips of the inquisitor,
therefore, if he used the word, it has one meaning, and another to the ear of the prisoner."--Rev.
Wm. H. Rule.] of his punishment. With the hope of pardon, the confessed culprit would go towards
the apartment of the holy inquisitor; but in the act of setting foot at its entrance, the trap
opened, and the world of the living heard no more of him. I examined some of the earth found
in the pit below this trap; it was a compost of common earth, rottenness, ashes, and human
hair, fetid to the smell, and horrible to the sight and to the thought of the beholder.

"But where popular fury reached its highest pitch was in the vaults of St. Pius V. I am anxious
that you should note well that this pope was canonized by the Roman church especially for his
zeal against heretics. I will now describe to you the manner how, and the place where, those
vicars of Jesus Christ handled the living members of Jesus Christ, and show you how they proceeded
for their healing. You descend into the vaults by very narrow stairs. A narrow corridor leads
you to the several cells, which, for smallness and stench, are a hundred times more horrible
than the dens of lions and tigers in the Colosseum. Wandering in this labyrinth of most fearful
prisons, that may be called 'graves for the living,' I came to a cell full of skeletons without
skulls, buried in lime, and the skulls, detached from the bodies, had been collected in a hamper
by the first visitors. Whose were those skeletons? and why were they buried in that place and
in that manner? I have heard some popish priests trying to defend the Inquisition from the
charge of having condemned its victims to a secret death, say that the palace of the Inquisition
was built on a burial-ground, belonging anciently to a hospital for pilgrims, and that the
skeletons found were none other than those of pilgrims who had died in that hospital. But everything
contradicts this papistical defence. Suppose that there had been a cemetery there, it could
not have had subterranean galleries and cells, laid out with so great regularity; and even
if there had been such--against all probability --the remains of bodies would have been removed
on laying the foundation of the palace, to leave the space free for the subterranean part of
the Inquisition. Besides, it is contrary to the use of common tombs to bury the dead by carrying
them through a door at the side; for the mouth of the sepulchre is always at the top. And again,
it has never been the custom in Italy to bury the dead singly in quick lime; but, in time of
plague, the dead bodies have been usually laid in a grave until it was sufficiently full, and
then quick lime has been laid over them, to prevent pestilential exhalations, by hastening
the decomposition of the infected corpses. This custom was continued, some years ago, in the
cemeteries of Naples, and especially in the daily burial of the poor. Therefore, the skeletons
found in the Inquisition of Rome could not belong to persons who had died a natural death in
a hospital; nor could any one, under such a supposition, explain the mystery of all the bodies
being buried in lime except the head. It remains, then, beyond a doubt, that that subterranean
vault contained the victims of one of the many secret martyrdoms of the butcherly tribunal.
The following is the most probable opinion, if it be not rather the history of a fact:

