The whole story was this: In a power house on an island only a few hundred yards off the beach
was kept a magnetic cable which Leider had been using in connection with some deep sea dredging
apparatus he kept there. When our ship crashed, the order had come from headquarters that the
cable be fastened to us and the ship drawn into the sea. I concluded that we had missed an
unpleasant fate by a narrow margin.

Quickly Hargrib confirmed our belief that it was Leider who had wrecked our ship while it was
still approaching Orcon through space. A ray which had crippled the magnogravitos had been
used. So great was Leider's power that, after disabling us, he had even been able to direct
our course so that we had crashed on the beach close to the headquarters he had set up for
himself deep in the wilderness, away from the cities of Orcon.

The Orconite's free mention of Leider's name and his open admission that the man was king and
god in Orcon, made direct inquiry about him easy. Also it was plain that Hargrib, now he had
been cornered, would hold nothing back because he believed we would never live long enough
to make trouble, regardless of what information we gained.

                   *       *       *       *       *

To state the rest of it briefly, we learned that Leider had come to Orcon immediately after
his defeat at Calypsus. He had found ready allies here, on the crazy, distant planet which
had been too remote to tempt explorers from Earth until necessity had forced our voyage. The
people of Orcon knew science and machinery, and were advanced in every respect. From communication
which they had had with other peoples in their own zone of the Universe, they had even heard
of Earth and its allied planets. They had lent themselves readily to Leider's fierce plans
to make trouble for Earth.

As to what Leider's plan of war was, Hargrib could not tell us much, for his duties kept him
absorbed in other work, not connected with the campaign. He stated definitely, however, that
Leider had almost completed the development of apparatus which would enable him to strike his
blow without ever leaving Orcon. The whole work was being carried forward in tremendous subterranean
laboratories and power rooms which had been established in a series of natural caverns only
a few miles distant from the desolate beach on which we were lying at that moment. Hargrib
said that with the coming of daylight, we would be able to see the mountains in which the caverns
were concealed, just as we would be able to sight the nearby island whence had been shot the
cable which had so nearly done for us.

At this point my natural curiosity as a scientist made me desire greatly to ask a thousand
questions about the planet itself, with its bubbling chemical seas and its erratic orbit, and
I did ask a few things. The answers I received confirmed the theory I had already formed that
Orcon did not revolve regularly, but had days and nights which might last anywhere from a few
hours to a month. I was told--what I had already guessed--that the bubbling fluid which composed
the seas changed the orbit of the planet as the nature of the fluid's chemical elements changed.

Also I was told flatly and calmly, as though there were nothing at all remarkable about the
fact, that Leider had penetrated so deeply into the chemical secrets of Orcon that he was able
to control the coming of day and night. Finally I was told that the planet had a hot, moist
climate instead of the frigid one to be expected when any sun was so remote, because of the
continued warmth-giving chemical action of its seas.

                   *       *       *       *       *

I could have gone on seeking information for hours. Captain Crane, however, showed impatience
at even the few questions I did ask, and I knew that she was justified. It was my duty to think
about the position we were in and the task we had in hand.

I asked Hargrib sharply what was to be expected from Leider now that his cable party against
us had failed. And he told me.

The sum of it was that Leider was working eagerly to complete his preparations for the attack
on Earth. Although it was he who had sent word from headquarters that we were to be destroyed,
he had not paused to attend to the matter himself. Hargrib thought, however, that the failure
of the cable party might change this attitude, and expressed the belief that Leider would interview
us now before he put us out of the way. He swore, and I believed, that he did not know when
or how Leider would come to us or have us brought to him. Also he did not know when or how
we would finally be exterminated.

I now asked a series of indirect questions which led me to believe that neither Hargrib nor
his master knew of the thing I had been conscious of from the start--that we had aboard the
ship an amount of high explosive sufficient to do ghastly damage not only to this section of
the coast but to the whole planet of Orcon. I gathered, however, that Leider suspected we were
armed against him in some way, and would watch us carefully.

                   *       *       *       *       *

By now daylight had begun to peer in through the ports, a greenish daylight which grew out
of the north, and with its coming I resolved on a plan of action.

"I am done with Hargrib," I said suddenly to Captain Crane. "We'll lock him up in one of the
staterooms, and after that we'll see if we can't get busy with something that will at least
help Earth, even if it doesn't help us."

Hargrib, still terrified by those radio sounds he could not stand, made no protest when I ordered
him into the stateroom which had belonged to the ship's second officer, and we were rid of
him in a moment.

I now called LeConte from the radio room and Koto in from the deck, and after Captain Crane
and I had told them what we had learned, I made my proposal.

The plan was simply that LeConte should continue to work on his sending apparatus until he
reached Earth, while Koto, Captain Crane and I set out on a reconnaissance. I said that I hoped
to be able to locate Leider's headquarters and learn what method of attack he intended to use
against Earth; and that I hoped further that at least one of us would be able to bring word
back to LeConte, who could send it to Earth. Finally I indicated that we would see what could
be done with our two tons of kotomite as soon as we had made the attempt to send information
home. I told LeConte, who would stay with the ship, to fire the explosive himself if anything
happened to make him believe that we had been killed while scouting.

I did not fail to point out that since our atomic guns were useless against the Orconites and
Leider, we should have to go unarmed on our expedition, and I did not fail to state that the
whole effort seemed futile. But the opportunity offered by Leider's present withdrawal was
one we could not afford to miss. We were drowning people, I said, and we must clutch at straws.
And my friends were good enough to agree. 

                   The body being those loss that. practice is acquainted with*, he employs
it to differing uses, by which ours, for instrument inspired of squat,
are robust; and we may not become our stone ended for same rest of the stout,
which necessity obliges him to acquire Orcon Had he the state, would
his agility easily so come off the oak therefore branch whence an man? Strength
treats we so in this world that who formed the miles look of her
citizens; a savage snap well be treated off want she renders different
and incapable, and destroys all the Nature; strong in the industry
from our societies, in the hand, by permitting children to thank burdensome
to their parents, murders them all without distinction, exactly in
that wombs of their mothers.

 It didn't. But it was good to look at the mountains,
because the fact that we were going there meant that at least we should be acting instead of
idling.

No Orconite was visible anywhere.

With the coming of daylight--the greenish daylight of Orcon--the sea behind us had calmed until
its surface was disturbed only by gigantic lazy bubbles which broke with muffled, thudding
explosions. The air smelled of chlorine, iodine, and sulphurated hydrogen, but was breathable.
I saw that the principal characteristic of life on Orcon was an organic ability to thrive under
almost any climatic conditions. Many of the huge, crystal clear boulders which covered the
beach and the coastal plain which led to the hills, were covered with leafless flowers which
had immense, leathery petals and sharp, fang-like spines. Other evidences of swift growing
life showed on every hand. Ugly, jelly-like creatures oozed about the ship and everywhere else.
In places the very rocks seemed ready to come to life.

                   *       *       *       *       *

After one good look about, I issued the order to start. As we clambered down the ship's ladder
to the beach and set out resolutely toward the hills, I made myself try to hope, and for a
time did muster up a little cheer.

I did not keep it, though. In less than ten minutes something happened which ended our expedition
in a terrible manner.

What began it was a long shout which came echoing from LeConte back on the ship. The instant
I heard the cry I knew, somehow, that trouble had started. Leider had kept off us as long as
we had remained quiet, but at our first move he had gone into action.

While LeConte's cry still echoed in my ears, I swung to face the ship and saw him waving frantically
from the deck. At that moment I also had a queer impression that the sunlight was growing brighter
on all the glittering rocks, and that some new feeling was creeping into the air.

"Doctor Weeks!" LeConte cried across the distance between us. "Come at once!"

Terror had laid hold of the man. Captain Crane, Koto and I began to run to him.

"What is it?" I shouted.

"I don't know," came the thin answer. "I almost had Earth when my whole set went to pieces.
Come, quickly!"

"We will, if we're able," I muttered to myself, and said aloud as I ran in the gigantic bounds
possible on Orcon: "Koto, Captain, do you feel anything queer in the air as if--as if--"

I never finished. Suddenly Captain Crane screamed and flung out her arms to me with the gesture
of one about to fall.

"Doctor Weeks!" she gasped. "Frederick, help me!"

                   *       *       *       *       *

And that was all. Before she could choke out another word, before I could do more than clutch
at her, she had been caught up by an invisible power, caught up straight into the now dazzlingly
brilliant green air, and swept away from us as if she were a feather in a tornado.

It was over before realization could sink in. Nor was her departure all. From the ship came
a ringing yell, and as LeConte, in the distance, clutched a stanchion as if for dear life,
the whole battered, glimmering gray shape of the flier moved, shivered, and in a flash was
caught up and whisked away as easily as had been Virginia Crane!

"He's got us!" I sputtered as I turned to Koto. "He was only waiting until we started to march
against him."

"God, yes. Horrible!" he muttered.

Then his kindly yellow face went white. Even while I stood looking at him, he, too, was swept
away into space.

When my turn came, it was as if implacable fingers took hold of my wrists, the front of my
coat, my shoes. I distinctly remember thinking that after all the peace we'd had, something
as astounding as this was almost bound to have happened. The glittering boulders of the coastal
plain fell away, and I felt myself being whirled through space. The speed was taking my breath
away. A ringing came into my ears, spots floated before my eyes, a nauseating light-headedness
swept me, and I lapsed into unconsciousness.

CHAPTER IV

In the Caverns of Orcon

I came out of it to find myself lying on my back upon the rocky floor of a cavern more lofty
than any cathedral. The air was warm and charged with a pungent, almost mephitic odor. Blue
light filled the vast subterranean place. I heard the far-away, droning throb of machinery.
Crackling sounds like static on a vast scale ripped back and forth at intervals.

Neither Captain Crane, Koto, nor LeConte was in sight, but wherever I looked as I twisted my
head slowly, I saw winged Orconites staring at me. They stood back against the walls of the
cavern chamber, their wings folded, the antennae on their orange foreheads waving gently. None
was close, but all watched with cold, intelligent interest. I decided that I was in Leider's
headquarters, a closely guarded prisoner. It was to be supposed that Leider had brought us
here, as Hargrib had said he might, to interview us before he finished us off.

Fear for the others laid hold of me, but I was still too dazed and giddy to get up and look
for them. I lay still, trying to remember everything.

"He waited until we made an aggressive move," I thought, "and then he did something to us.
He did something which brought us shooting through the air here to his headquarters!"

After I had progressed so far, it did not take me long to realize what method Leider had employed
to fetch us to the caverns. Nor did it take me much longer, once I was sure of the method,
to roll over heavily and begin to yank the metal buttons off my coat. Since the many guards--fully
twenty of them--made no move to interfere, I did not stop until I had torn every button off
my clothing, dumped from my pockets every object which had a scrap of metal on it, and even
dug the metal eyelets out of my shoes.

                   *       *       *       *       *

What had happened was that Leider had simply readjusted the forces of his damned power houses
so as to yank us to him, ship and all, without the medium of a magnetic cable. What he had
done was to direct at us a magnetic current so terrific that, taking hold of the few odds and
ends of metal on our persons, it had snatched us bodily through space. And the ship, too! It
was stupendous; incredible.

Full consciousness had returned by this time, and fear possessed me even more completely than
it had before--fear for what might be going to happen to Earth and fear of what might already
have happened to my friends. The Leider who had planned the Calypsus war had had no such gigantic
powers as these. As thoughts of Virginia Crane and the others increased until they filled my
whole mind, I sat up on the floor of the cavern and then rose slowly to my feet.

The guards never relaxed their vigilance, but they made no move as I moved; they only stared,
and I ventured to call out.

"Captain Crane! Koto! LeConte!" I shouted loudly.

No answer came. Since the Orconites still did not prevent me, I began to walk swiftly down
the length of the great, echoing cathedral cavern, toward an abutment of rock which jutted
out from one wall, separating the room I was in from another. Again I shouted, and the whole
place rang with echoes, and my fears grew.

But all at once fear vanished. I knew that the worst had not happened and that I was not to
be left alone.

"Doctor Weeks!" It was Koto's voice, and it came from behind the abutment of rock toward which
I was hurrying.

"Koto!" I yelled and entered the next cavern and saw it all.

                   *       *       *       *       *

