Here is another matter which every horseman ought to know, and that is within what distance
a horse can overhaul a man on foot; or the interval necessary to enable a slower horse to escape
one more fleet. It is the business rather of the cavalry general to recognise at a glance the
sort of ground on which infantry will be superior to cavalry and where cavalry will be superior
to infantry. He should be a man of invention, ready of device to turn all circumstances to
account, so as to give at one time a small body of cavalry the appearance of a larger, and
again a large the likeness of a smaller body; he should have the craft to appear absent when
close at hand, and within striking distance when a long way off; he should know exactly not
only how to steal an enemy's position, but by a master stroke of cunning (1) to spirit his
own cavalry away, and, when least expected, deliver his attack. Another excellent specimen
of inventiveness may be seen in the general's ability, while holding a weak position himself,
to conjure up so lively an apprehension in the enemy that he will not dream of attacking; or
conversely, when, being in a strong position himself, he can engender a fatal boldness in the
adversary to venture an attack. Thus with the least cost to yourself, you will best be able
to catch your enemy tripping.

 (1) Or, "sleight of hand"; and for {kleptein} = escamoter see "Anab."
    IV. vi. 11, 15; V. vi. 9.

But to avoid suspicion of seeming to prescribe impossible feats, I will set down, in so many
words, the procedure in certain crucial instances.

The best safeguard against failure in any attempt to enforce pursuit or conduct a retreat lies
in a thorough knowledge of your horse's powers. (2) But how is this experience to be got? Simply
by paying attention to their behaviour in the peaceable manouvres of the sham fight, when there
is no real enemy to intervene--how the animals come off, in fact, and what stamina they show
in the various charges and retreats.

 (2) {empeiria}, "empirical knowledge."

Or suppose the problem is to make your cavalry appear numerous. In the first place, let it
be a fundamental rule, if possible, not to attempt to delude the enemy at close quarters; distance,
as it aids illusion, will promote security. The next point is to bear in mind that a mob of
horses clustered together  (owing perhaps to the creatures' size) will give a suggestion of
number, whereas scattered they may easily be counted.

Another means by which you may give your troop an appearance of numerical strength beyond reality
consists in posting, in and out between the troopers, so many lines of grooms (3) who should
carry lances if possible, or staves at any rate to look like lances--a plan which will serve
alike whether you mean to display your cavalry force at the halt or are deploying to increase
front; in either case, obviously the bulk and volume of the force, whatever your formation,
will appear increased. Conversely, if the problem be to make large numbers appear small, supposing
you have ground at command adapted to concealment, the thing is simple: by leaving a portion
of your men exposed and hiding away a portion in obscurity, you may effect your object. (4)
But if the ground nowhere admits of cover, your best course is to form your files (5) into
ranks one behind the other, and wheel them round so as to leave intervals between each file;
the troopers nearest the enemy in each file will keep their lances erect, and the rest low
enough not to show above.

 (3) Cf. Polyaen. II. i. 17, of Agesilaus in Macedonia, 394 B.C.  (our
    author was probably present); IV. iv. 3, of Antipater in Thessaly,
    323 B.C.

 (4) Lit. "steal your troopers." See "Cyrop." V. iv. 48.

 (5) Lit. "form your decads  (squads of ten; cf. our 'fours') in ranks
    and deploy with intervals."

To come to the next topic: you may work on the enemy's fears by the various devices of mock
ambuscades, sham relief parties, false information. Conversely, his confidence will reach an
overweening pitch, if the idea gets abroad that his opponents have troubles of their own and
little leisure for offensive operations.

But over and beyond all that can be written on the subject--inventiveness is a personal matter,
beyond all formulas--the true general must be able to take in, deceive, decoy, delude his adversary
at every turn, as the particular occasion demands. In fact, there is no instrument of war more
cunning than chicanery; (6) which is not surprising when one reflects that even little boys,
when playing, "How many  (marbles) have I got in my hand?" (7) are able to take one another
in successfully. Out goes a clenched fist, but with such cunning that he who holds a few is
thought to hold several; or he may present several and appear to be holding only a few. Is
it likely that a grown man, giving his whole mind to methods of chicanery, will fail of similar
inventiveness? Indeed, when one comes to consider what is meant by advantages snatched in war,
one will find, i think, that the greater part of them, and those the more important, must be
attributed in some way or other to displays of craft; (8) which things being so, a man had
better either not attempt to exercise command, or, as part and parcel of his general equipment,
let him pray to Heaven to enable him to exercise this faculty and be at pains himself to cultivate
his own inventiveness.

 (6) Cf. "Cyrop." IV. ii. 26; VII. i. 18.

 (7) {posinda}, lit. "How many?"  (i.e. dice, nuts, marbles, etc.); cf.
    the old game, "Buck! buck! how many horns do I hold up?" Schneid.
    cf. Aristot. "Rhet."iii. 5. 4.

 (8) "Have been won in connection with craft." See "Cyrop." I. vi. 32;
    "Mem." III. i. 6; IV. ii. 15.

A general, who has access to the sea, may exercise the faculty as follows: he may either, whilst
apparently engaged in fitting out his vessels, strike a blow on land; (9) or with a make-believe
of some aggressive design by land, hazard an adventure by sea. (10)

 (9) A ruse adopted by Jason, 371 B.C. Cf. "Hell." VI. iv. 21.

 (10) Cf. the tactics of the Athenians at Catana, 415 B.C. Thuc. vi.
    64.

I consider it to be the duty of the cavalry commander to point out clearly to the state authority
the essential weakness of a force of cavalry unaided by light infantry, as opposed to cavalry
with foot-soldiers attached. (11) It is duty also, having got his footmen, to turn the force
to good account. It is possible to conceal them effectively, not only between the lines, but
in rear also of the troopers--the mounted soldier towering high above his follower on foot.

 (11) Or, "divorced from infantry." In reference to {amippoi}, cf.
    Thuc. v. 57; "Hell." VII. v. 23.

With regard to these devices and to any others which invention may suggest towards capturing
the foeman by force or fraud, I have one common word of advice to add, which is, to act with
God, and then while Heaven propitious smiles, fortune will scarcely dare to frown. (12)

 (12) Or, "and then by the grace of Heaven you may win the smiles of
    fortune," reading with Courier, etc., {ina kai e tukhe sunepaine}.
    Cf. "Cyrop." III. iii. 20.

At times there is no more effective fraud than a make-believe (13) of over-caution alien to
the spirit of adventure. This itself will put the enemy off his guard and ten to one will lure
him into some egregious blunder; or conversely, once get a reputation for foolhardiness established,
and then with folded hands sit feigning future action, and see what a world of trouble you
will thereby cause your adversary.

 (13) S. 15 should perhaps stand before S. 13.

VI

But, after all, no man, however great his plastic skill, can hope to mould and shape a work
of art to suit his fancy, unless the stuff on which he works be first prepared and made ready
to obey the craftsman's will. Nor certainly where the raw material consists of men, will you
succeed, unless, under God's blessing, these same men have been prepared and made ready to
meet their officer in a friendly spirit. They must come to look upon him as of greater sagacity
than themselves in all that concerns encounter with the enemy. This friendly disposition on
the part of his subordinates, one must suppose, will best be fostered by a corresponding sympathy
on the part of their commander towards the men themselves, and that not by simple kindness
but by the obvious pains he takes on their behalf, at one time to provide them with food, and
at another to secure safety of retreat, or again by help of outposts and the like, to ensure
protection during rest and sleep.

When on active service (1) the commander must prove himself conspicuously careful in the matter
of forage, quarters, water-supply, outposts, (2) and all other requisites; forecasting the
future and keeping ever a wakeful eye in the interest of those under him; and in case of any
advantage won, the truest gain which the head of affairs can reap is to share with his men
the profits of success.

 (1) Al. "on garrison outpost duty."

 (2) Reading {phulakon}, or if with Courier {thulakon}, "haversacks,"
    i.e. "la farine, le contenant pour le contenu."

Indeed, to put the matter in a nutshell, there is small risk a general will be regarded with
contempt by those he leads, if, whatever he may have to preach, he shows himself best able
to perform.

Beginning with the simple art of mounting on horseback, let him so train himself in all particulars
of horsemanship that, to look at him, the men must see their leader is a horseman who can leap
a trench unscathed or scale a parapet, (3) or gallop down a bank, and hurl a javelin with the
best. These are accomplishments which one and all will pave the way to make contempt impossible.
If, further, the men shall see in their commander one who, with the knowledge how to act, has
force of will and cunning to make them get the better of the enemy; and if, further, they have
got the notion well into their heads that this same leader may be trusted not to lead them
recklesssly against the foe, without the help of Heaven, or despite the auspices--I say, you
have a list of virtues which will make those under his command the more obedient to their ruler.

 (3) Or, "stone walls," "dykes."

VII

If prudence may be spoken of as the one quality distinctive of true generalship, there are
two respects in which a general of cavalry at Athens should pre-eminently excel. Not only must
he show a dutiful submission to the gods; but he must possess great fighting qualities, seeing
that he has on his borders a rival cavalry equal to his own in number and backed by a large
force of heavy infantry. (1) So that, if he undertake to invade the enemy's territory unsupported
by the other forces of the city (2)--in dealing with two descriptions of forces single-handed,
he and his cavalry must look for a desperate adventure; or to take the converse case, that
the enemy invades the soil of Attica, to begin with, he will not invade at all, unless supported
by other cavalry besides his own and an infantry force sufficient to warrant the supposition
that no force on our side can cope with him.

 (1) The reference is doubtless to the Thebans. Unfortunately we do not
    know, on good authority, how many troops of either arm they had in
    the field at Leuctra or at Mantinea.

 (2) Lit. "without the rest of the city," i.e. the hoplites, etc.

