Despite all attempts to the contrary, reliance on salt fish from the North kept gaining. The
General Assembly that had met in 1619 censured a Captain Warde for establishing a plantation
in Virginia without asking anybody's permission. But when it was brought out that he had conveyed
quantities of salt fish to the Colony from Canada on his ship he was forgiven. This captain
was an important link between the Colony and the North. John Rolfe wrote to Sir Edwin Sandys
in 1619:

    Captain Warde in his ship went to Monhegan [island, Maine] in the
    Northern Colony in May and returned the latter end of July with
    fish which he caught there. He brought but a small quantity by
    reason he had but little salt. There were some Plymouth ships where
    he harbored, who made great store of fish which is far larger than
    Newland [Newfoundland] fish.

The Maine waters were far busier than those of Virginia. For more than a century vessels from
half-a-dozen European nations had thronged there, even to Greenland, attracted by the fishing,
and the furs available on the mainland. When some of the early experiments at colonization
failed, fishing became all the more emphasized. There was usually excellent demand for the
catches whether landed in Plymouth (England) or Plymouth (Massachusetts), Portugal, Holland,
the West Indies or Virginia. These bold adventurers made use of the land in the New World only
for drying, salting and barreling their fish. If conditions permitted, they transported them
fresh, in a cargo commonly known as "corfish." Oil made from whale and cod was a profitable
commodity.

Fishermen were the pioneers and explorers of America's first days just as the miners, trappers
and traders were those of a later period.

The importance of fish was thus underlined. In addition, conceding the value to the untrained
whites of Indians as fishermen, the 1619 Assembly agreed to a proposal that Indians to the
limit of six be permitted to live in white settlements if they engaged in fishing for the benefit
of the settlement. Indian methods were first described by Hariot of the Roanoke island colony:

    They have likewise a notable way to catch fish in their rivers, for
    whereas they lack both iron and steel, they fasten unto their
    reeds, or long rods, the hollow tail of a certain fish like to a
    sea crab instead of a point, wherewith by night or day they strike
    fishes, and take them up into their boats. They also know how to
    use the prickles, and pricks of other fishes. They also make weirs,
    with setting up reeds or twigs in the water, which they so plant
    one with another, that they grow still narrower, and narrower.
    There was never seen among us so cunning a way to take fish withal,
    whereof sundry sorts as they found in their rivers unlike ours,
    which are also of a very good taste. Doubtless it is a pleasant
    sight to see the people, sometimes wading, and going sometimes
    sailing in those rivers, which are shallow and not deep, free from
    all care of heaping up riches for their posterity, content with
    their state, and living friendly together of those things which God
    of His bounty hath given unto them, yet without giving Him any
    thanks according to His deserts.

The most vivid and comprehensive description of Indian fishing was given by historian Robert
Beverley. Though his work was not published until 1705, he dealt with an earlier period:

    Before the arrival of the English there, the Indians had fish in
    such vast plenty that the boys and girls would take a pointed stick
    and strike the lesser sort as they swam upon the flats. The larger
    fish that kept in deeper water, they were put to a little more
    difficulty to take. But for these they made weirs, that is, a hedge
    of small rived sticks or reeds of the thickness of a man's finger.
    These they wove together in a row with straps of green oak or other
    tough wood, so close that the small fish could not pass through.
    Upon high water mark they pitched one end of this hedge and the
    other they extended into the river to the depth of eight or ten
    foot, fastening it with stakes, making cods out from the hedge on
    one side, almost at the end, and leaving a gap for the fish to go
    into them. These were contrived so that the fish could easily find
    their passage into those cods when they were at the gap, but not
    see their way out again when they were in. Thus if they offered to
    pass through, they were taken.

    Sometimes they made such a hedge as this quite across a creek at
    high water and at low would go into the run, so contracted into a
    narrow stream, and take out what fish they pleased.

    At the falls of the rivers where the water is shallow and the
    current strong, the Indians use another kind of weir thus made.
    They make a dam of loose stone, whereof there is plenty at hand,
    quite across the river, leaving one, two, or more spaces or
    trunnels for the water to pass through. At the mouth they set a pot
    of reeds, wove in form of a cone, whose base is about three foot
    [wide] and ten [foot] perpendicular, into which the swiftness of
    the current carries the fish and wedges them so fast that they
    cannot possibly return.

    The Indian way of catching sturgeon, when they came into the narrow
    part of the rivers, was by a man's clapping a noose over their
    tails and by keeping fast his hold. Thus a fish, finding itself
    entangled, would flounce and often pull him under water. Then that
    man was counted a cockarouse, or brave fellow, that would not let
    go till with swimming, wading and diving, he had tired the sturgeon
    and brought it ashore. These sturgeon would also leap into their
    canoes in crossing the river, as many of them do still every year
    into the boats of the English.

    They have also another way of fishing like those on the Euxine Sea,
    by the help of a blazing fire by night. They make a hearth in the
    middle of their canoe, raising it within two inches of the edge.
    Upon this they lay their burning lightwood, split into small
    shivers, each splinter whereof will blaze and burn end for end like
    a candle. 'Tis one man's work to tend this fire and keep it
    flaming. At each end of the canoe stands an Indian with a gig or
    point spear, setting the canoe forward with the butt end of the
    spear as gently as he can, by that means stealing upon the fish
    without any noise or disturbing of the water. Then they with great
    dexterity dart these spears into the fish and so take them. Now
    there is a double convenience in the blaze of this fire, for it not
    only dazzles the eyes of the fish, which will lie still glaring
    upon it, but likewise discovers the bottom of the river clearly to
    the fisherman, which the daylight does not.

Under Governor George Yeardley in 1616, there were 400 people at Jamestown and one old frigate,
one old shallop and one boat belonging to the community. There were two boats privately owned.
The boats best suited to local fishing, and the most easily available, were the Indian dugout
canoes. Such was the size of the trees that it was possible to make them comparatively roomy,
as Strachey noted.

Every passing year brought home to the steadily growing Colony the need of improving its fishing
practices. Most nets had to be bought in England. Here is a London item from a 1623 List of
Subscribers and Subscriptions for Relief of the Colony: "Richard Tatem will adventure [speculate]
in cheese and fishing nets the sum of £30 sterling."

Jamestown had by 1624 begun to spawn little Jamestowns throughout the countryside. A census
was ordered of all settlements. In January, 1625, there were 1209 white persons, and 23 negroes.
This first American census listed, among general provisions, the stocks of salt fish. On hand
at thirteen settlements was 58,380 pounds. James City had the largest supply, 24,880 pounds.
Elizabeth City was next with 10,550 pounds. A community listed only as "Neck of Land" adjacent
to Jamestown, consisting of perhaps ten dwellings and plantations, had 4,050 pounds. The smallest
store, 450 pounds, was credited to another "Neck of Land" in Charles City. From the accumulated
evidences of disorganized home fishing, coupled with the deficiency of salt, it is to be concluded
that most of this supply had come from the Northern fishing grounds.

There were 40 boats of various sizes and uses listed in this census. For example, at Jamestown
a "barque of 40 tons, a shallop of 4 tons and one skiff" were among the ten there.

A token of the stress resulting from inadequate fisheries even after 16 years of active colonization
is this letter preserved in the records of the Virginia Company. A Virginia citizen named Arundle
in 1623 wrote to his friend, Mr. Caning, in London:

    The most evident hope from altogether starving is oysters, and for
    the easier getting of them I have agreed for a canoe which will
    cost me 6 livres sterling.

    Emigrants had been advised not to leave for Virginia without some
    fishing equipment. In his Travels, John Smith had included the
    warning: "A particular of such necessaries as either private
    families or single persons shall have cause to provide to go to
    Virginia ... nets, hooks and lines must be added."

Records of the Virginia Company in London throw light on the extensiveness of the fish trade.
Robert Bennett wrote from Virginia to Edward Bennett in London in 1623:

    My last letter I wrote you was in the Adam from Newfoundland,
    which I hope you shall receive before this. God send her back in
    safety and this from Canada. I hope the fish will come to a good
    reckoning for victuals is very scarce in the country. Your
    Newfoundland fish is worth 30s. per hundred, your dry Canada [fish]
    £3, 10s. and the wet £5, 10s. per hundred. I do not know nor hear
    of any that is coming hither with fish but only the Tiger which
    went in company with the Adam from this place and I know the
    country will carry away all this forthwith.

And again from the records of the Company, this extract from An Account of Sums Subscribed
and Supplies Sent Since April, dated July 23, 1623:

    ... We have received advice that from Canada there departed this
    last month a ship called Furtherance with above forty thousand of
    that fish which is little inferior to ling for the supply of the
    Colony in Virginia and that fish is worth not less than £600.

caviar.

U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Photos]

      [1] (we cannot be certain that much actual caviar was produced at
      Jamestown. The chances are that the roe was merely salted down
      and that the final processing took place in England)

The kernel of the situation was reflected by the Dutch traveler, David De Vries, who made voyages
to America from 1632 to 1644:

    In going down to Jamestown on board of a sloop, a sturgeon sprang
    out of the river, into the sloop. We killed it, and it was eight
    feet long. This river is full of sturgeon, as also are the two
    rivers of New Netherland. When the English first began to plant
    their Colony here, there came an English ship from England for the
    purpose of fishing for sturgeon; but they found that this fishery
    would not answer, because it is so hot in summer, which is the best
    time for fishing, that the salt or pickle would not keep them as in
    Muscovy whence the English obtain many sturgeon and where the
    climate is colder than in the Virginias.

The effects of the Virginians' favoring tobacco-growing above fishing were also noted by De
Vries on a visit to Canada:

    Besides my vessel [at Newfoundland] there was a small boat of fifty
    or sixty lasts [110 tons], with six guns, which had come out of the
    Virginias with tobacco, in order to exchange the tobacco for fish.

A rather aggrieved reaction to the tales of abundant natural resources in Virginia is contained
in this letter from one Tho. Niccolls to Sir Jo. Worstenholme in London in 1623:

    If the Company would allow to each man a pound of butter and a
    portion of cheese weekly, they would find more comfort therein then
    by all the deer, fish, and fowl [that] is so talked of in England,
    of which, I can assure you, your poor servants have not had so much
    as the scent since their coming into the country.

To prevent profiteering in Canadian fish the Virginia authorities had set the selling prices:

    January 3, 1625-6: Proclamation by the Governor and Council of
    Virginia renewing a former proclamation of August 31, 1623,
    restraining the excessive rates of commodities--commanding that no
    person in Virginia, either adventurer or planter, shall vend,
    utter, barter, or sell any of the commodities following above the
    prices hereafter mentioned, viz: New Foundland fish, the hundred
    ... 10 pounds of tobacco; Canada dry fish, the hundred ... 24
    pounds of tobacco; Canada wet fish, the hundred.... 30 pounds of
    tobacco.

In one proposed deal of fish for tobacco the owner of the fish got scared off, as recorded
in the Minutes of the Council and General Court, 1622-29:

    Luke Edan, sworn and examined, says that there were sixteen
    thousand fish offered him by one Corbin at Canada which afterward
    the said Corbin refused to sell him for it was told him his tobacco
    was not good, and as the examiner heard, it was Henry Hewat that
    told him so.

A case of special concession for the sale of fish was shown in a ruling of the Virginia Council
in 1626:

    It is ordered that whereas Mr. Weston came up to James City, he
    shall sell 3,000 of his fish there, which he has promised to sell
    at reasonable rates. Therefore, in regard the proclamations are not
    published for the choosing of merchants and factors, it is
    permitted that such as are desirous to buy any of the said fish he
    may have leave to deal with Mr. Weston, notwithstanding orders to
    the contrary.

Another dissuading factor in the unsubstantial fishing in Virginia was the threat of Indian
attack. The Assembly in 1626 ruled:

    It is ordered, according to the act of the late General Assembly,
    that no man go or send abroad either upon fowling, fishing, or
    otherwise whatsoever without a sufficient plenty of men, well armed
    and provided of munition, upon penalty of undergoing severe censure
    of punishment by the Governor and Council.

It was characteristic of Virginia's fisheries that the pessimists occupied the stage for a
while, then the optimists. An example of the whipping-up of enthusiasm is this discourse of
Edward Williams writing on Virginia at mid-century. China was a fabulous country, therefore
he compared Virginia with it. Ideas ran riot as he contemplated the resources crying to be
developed:

    ... What multitudes of fish to satisfy the most voluptuous of
    wishes, can China glory in which Virginia may not in justice boast
    of?... Let her publish a precedent so worthy of admiration (and
    which will not admit belief in those bosoms where the eye cannot be
    witness of the action) of five thousand fish taken at one draught
    near Cape Charles, at the entry into Chesapeake bay, and which
    swells the wonder greater, not one fish under the measure of two
    feet in length. What fleets come yearly upon the coasts of
    Newfoundland and New England for fish, with an incredible return?
    Yet it is a most assured truth that if they would make experiment
    upon the south of Cape Cod, and from thence to the coast of this
    happy country, they would find fish of greater delicacy, and as
    full handed plenty, which though foreigners know not, yet if our
    own planters would make use of it, would yield them a revenue which
    cannot admit of any diminution while there are ebbs and floods,
    rivers feed and receive the ocean, or nature fails in (the
    elemental original of all things) waters.

    There wants nothing but industrious spirits and encouragement to
    make a rich staple of this commodity; and would the Virginians but
    make salt pits, in which they have a greater convenience of tides
    (that part of the universe by reason of a full influence of the
    moon upon the almost limitless Atlantic causing the most spacious
    fluxes and refluxes, that any shore of the other divisions in the
    world is sensible of) to leave their pits full of salt-water, and
    more friendly and warm sunbeams to concoct it into salt, than
    Rochel, or any parts of Europe. Yet notwithstanding these
    advantages which prefer Virginia before Rochel, the French king
    raises a large proportion of his revenues out of that staple
    yearly, with which he supplies a great part of Christendom.

    Nor would it be such a long interval (salt being first made)
    betwixt the undertaking of this fishing, and the bringing it to
    perfection, for if every servant were enjoined to practice rowing,
    to be taught to handle sails, and trim a vessel, a work easily
    practised, and suddenly learned, the pleasantness of weather in
    fishing season, the delicacy of the fish, of which they usually
    feed themselves with the best, the encouragement of some share in
    the profit, and their understanding what their own benefit may be
    when their freedom gives them an equality, will make them willing
    and able fishermen and seamen. To add further to this, if we
    consider the abundance, largeness, and peculiar excellency of the
    sturgeon in that country, it will not fall into the least of
    scruples, but that one species will be of an invaluable profit to
    the buyer, or if we repeat to our thoughts the singular plenty of
    herrings and mackerel, in goodness and greatness much exceeding
    whatever of that kind these our seas produce, a very ordinary
    understanding may at the first inspection perceive that it will be
    no great difficulty to out-labor and out-vie the Hollander in that
    his almost only staple.

This flowery author goes on to make ingenious suggestions about raising fish in captivity,
like domesticated animals, by inclosing a creek against their egress but keeping it sluiced
to permit the action of tides. He even guesses that a nutritious and medicinal oil could be
produced from fish livers. It is worth noting that both these suggestions have been proved
practical but they had to wait until modern times to be carried out.

In the anonymous A Perfect Description of Virginia, published in 1649, the population is given
as 15,000 English and 300 negroes. The count of boats, remembering the shortage of 40 years
before, is impressive: "They have in their Colony pinnaces, barks, great and small boats many
hundreds, for most of their plantations stand upon the river sides or up little creeks, and
but a small way into the land so that for transportation and fishing they use many boats."

The enmity of the Indians had been a constant irritation, and worse, ever since the first days.
As soon as it became possible to do so, effort was made to cut them off from the resources
of the tidal waters. It was reasoned, and as it turned out, rightly, that with them unable
to supplement their food supplies with fish and shellfish, especially oysters, they would be
weakened in body and more easily subdued. The word early went out: Keep the Indians away from
the water. This strategy worked so successfully that by 1662 it was deemed safe to ease the
pressure. Thus another milestone was reached: the first oyster licensing law, as recorded in
Hening's Statutes:

    Be it further enacted that for the better relief of the poor
    Indians whom the seating of the English had forced from their
    wonted convenience of oystering, fishing ... that the said Indians
    upon address made to two of the justices of that county they desire
    to oyster ... they, the said justices, shall grant a license to the
    said Indians to oyster ... provided the said justices limit the
    time the Indians are to stay, and the Indians bring not with them
    any guns, or ammunition or any other offensive weapon but only such
    tools or implements as serve for the end of their coming. If any
    Englishman shall presume to take from the Indians so coming in any
    of their goods, or shall kill, wound, maim any Indian, he shall
    suffer as he had done the same to an Englishman and be fined for
    his contempt.

This was followed, according to Hening, in 1676 by another cavalier gesture to the oppressed:

    ... It is hereby intended that our neighbor Indian friends be not
    debarred from fishing and hunting within their own limits and
    bounds, using bows and arrows only. Provided also that such
    neighbor Indian friends who have occasion for corn to relieve their
    lives and it shall and may be lawful for any English to employ in
    fishing or deal with fish, canoes, bowls, mats, or baskets, and to
    pay the said Indians for the same in Indian corn, but no other
    commodities....

Thomas Glover, author of An Account of Virginia, addressed to the Royal Society in London,
published in 1676, sides with the optimists. His catalogue has a familiar sound but it is valuable
as substantiating many of the earlier reports. One impression to be gained from it is that
after more than 60 years of occupancy of the new territory, the settlers had in no way depleted
their fishery resources, had not, in fact, even scratched the surface:

    In the rivers are great plenty and variety of delicate fish. One
    kind whereof is by the English called a sheepshead from the
    resemblance the eye of it bears with the eye of a sheep. This fish
    is generally about fifteen or sixteen inches long and about half a
    foot broad. It is a wholesome and pleasant fish and of easy
    digestion. A planter does often times take a dozen or fourteen in
    an hour's time with hook and line.

    There is another sort which the English call a drum, many of which
    are two foot and a half or three foot long. This is likewise a very
    good fish, and there is plenty of them. In the head of this fish
    there is a jelly, which being taken and dried in the sun, then
    beaten to powder and given in broth, procures speedy delivery to
    women in labour.

    At the heads of the rivers there are sturgeon and in the creeks are
    great store of small fish, as perch, croakers, taylors, eels, and
    divers others whose name I know not. Here are such plenty of
    oysters as they may load ships with them. At the mouth of Elizabeth
    River, when it is low water, they appear in rocks a foot above
    water. There are also in some places great store of mussels and
    cockles. There is also a fish called a stingray, which resembles a
    skate, only on one side of his tail grows out a sharp bone like a
    bodkin about four or five inches long, with which he sticks and
    wounds other fish and then preys upon them.

The same author went farther than any other reporter up to that time in telling a real fish story:

    And now it comes into my mind, I shall here insert an account of a
    very strange fish or rather a monster, which I happened to see in
    Rappahannock River about a year before I came out of the country;
    the manner of it was thus:

    As I was coming down the forementioned river in a sloop bound for
    the bay, it happened to prove calm, at which time we were three
    leagues short of the river's mouth; the tide of ebb being then
    done, the sloop-man dropped his grapline, and he and his boy took a
    little boat belonging to the sloop, in which they went ashore for
    water, leaving me aboard alone, in which time I took a small book
    out of my pocket and sat down at the stern of the vessel to read;
    but I had not read long before I heard a great rushing and flashing
    of the water, which caused me suddenly to look up, and about half a
    stone's cast from me appeared a prodigious creature, much
    resembling a man, only somewhat larger, standing right up in the
    water with his head, neck, shoulders, breast and waist, to the
    cubits of his arms, above water; his skin was tawny, much like that
    of an Indian; the figure of his head was pyramidal, and slick,
    without hair; his eyes large and black, and so were his eyebrows;
    his mouth very wide, with a broad streak on the upper lip, which
    turned upward at each end like mustachioes; his countenance was
    grim and terrible; his neck, shoulders, arms, breast and waist were
    like unto the neck, arms, shoulders, breast and waist of a man; his
    hands if he had any, were under water; he seemed to stand with his
    eyes fixed on me for some time, and afterward dived down, and a
    little after riseth at somewhat a farther distance, and turned his
    head towards me again, and then immediately falleth a little under
    water, and swimmeth away so near the top of the water, that I could
    discern him throw out his arms, and gather them in as a man doth
    when he swimmeth. At last he shoots with his head downwards, by
    which means he cast his tail above the water, which exactly
    resembled the tail of a fish with a broad fane at the end of it.

Judging from the few piddling regulations and restrictions referred to in extracts already
cited, the Virginia lawmakers could see no need for intensive or even active supervision of
the Tidewater fisheries. A rather epoch-making law was enacted in 1678 by the county court
of Middlesex County, which is about 50 miles from James City, at the juncture of the Rappahannock
river and Chesapeake bay:

    Whereas, by the 15th act of Assembly made in the year 1662, liberty
    is given to each respective county to make by-laws for themselves;
    which laws, by virtue of the said act are to be binding upon them
    as any other general law; and whereas several of the inhabitants of
    this county have complained against the excessive and immoderate
    striking and destroying of fish, by some fire, of the inhabitants
    of this county by striking them by a light in the night time with
    fish gigs, wherby they not only affright the fish from coming into
    the rivers and creeks, but also wound four times that quantity that
    they take, so that if a timely remedy be not applied, by that means
    the fishing with hooks and lines will be thereby spoiled to the
    great hurt and grievance of most of the inhabitants of this county.
    It is therefore by this court ordered that from and after the 20th
    day of March next ensuing, it shall not be lawful for any of the
    inhabitants of this county to take, strike, or destroy any sort of
    fish in the night time with fish gigs, harping irons, or any other
    instrument of that nature, sort or kind, within any river, creek or
    bay which are accounted belonging to or within the bounds or
    precincts of this county. And it is further ordered that if any
    person or persons being a freeman, shall offend against this order,
    he or they so offending shall for the first offence be fined five
    hundred pounds of good tobacco to be paid to the informer, and for
    every other offence committed against this order after the first,
    by any person, the said fine to be doubled and if any servants be
    permitted or encouraged by their masters to keep or have in their
    possession any fish gig, harping iron or any other instrument of
    that kind or nature and shall therewith offend against this order,
    that in such case the master of such servant or servants shall be
    liable to pay the several fines above mentioned, and if any servant
    or servants shall, contrary to and against their master's will and
    knowledge, offend against this order, that for every offence they
    receive such corporal punishment as by this court shall be thought
    meet.

As population became more dense it was inevitable that rights previously of little significance
began to be asserted. This case of 1679 taken from Hening's Statutes, was a forerunner of countless
others like it which continue to this day:

    Robert Liny, having complained to this Grand Assembly that whereas
    he had cleared a fishing place in the river against his own land to
    his great cost and charge supposing the right thereof in himself by
    virtue of his patents, yet nevertheless several persons have
    frequently obstructed him in his just privilege of fishing there,
    and despite of him came upon his land and hauled their seines on
    shore to his great prejudice, alleging that the water was the King
    Majesty's and not by him granted away in any patent and therefore
    equally free to all His Majesty's subjects to fish in and haul
    their seines on shore, and praying for relief therein by a
    declaratory order of this Grand Assembly; it is ordered and
    declared by this Grand Assembly that every man's right by virtue of
    his patent extends into the rivers or creeks so far as low water
    mark and it is a privilege granted to him in and by his patent, and
    that therefore no person ought to come and fish there above low
    water mark or haul seines on shore without leave first obtained,
    under the hazard of comitting a trespass for which he is sueable by
    law.

In most cases this decision somewhat limited a landowner's claim. But on the seaside of Virginia's
Eastern Shore conditions have always been so that at low tide thousands of acres of land are
laid bare, with the result that "low water mark" is in many cases difficult of interpretation
as a boundary between waterfront properties and the public domain.

Toward the close of the century fishing methods had shaped up advantageously compared to the
crudities and hit-or-miss practices of the first settlers. Robert Beverley described them in 1705:

    The Indian invention of weirs in fishing is mightily improved by
    the English, besides which, they make use of seines, trolls,
    casting nets, setting nets, hand fishing and angling and in each
    find abundance of diversion. I have sat in the shade at the heads
    of the rivers angling and spent as much time in taking the fish off
    the hook as in waiting for their taking it. Like those of the
    Euxine Sea, they also fish with spilyards which is a long line
    staked out in the river and hung with a great many hooks on short
    strings, fastened to the main line, about four foot asunder. The
    only difference is that our line is supported by stakes and theirs
    is buoyed up with gourds.

The abundance of the fisheries never ceased impressing visitors. A French tourist added to
the chorus in 1687:

    Fish too is wonderfully plentiful. There are so many shell oysters
    that almost every Saturday my host craved them. He had only to send
    one of his servants in one of the small boats and two hours after
    ebb tide he brought it back full. These boats, made of a single
    tree hollowed in the middle, can hold as many as fourteen people
    and twenty-five hundredweight of merchandise.

As if to crown the final emergence of recognition of the home fisheries William Byrd I instructed
his agent in Boston in 1689 to send him a variety of commodities in return for a bill of exchange
but no salt fish:

    By the advice of my friend, Captain Peter Perry, I made bold to
    give you the trouble of a letter of the 1st instant with two small
    bills of exchange which I desired you to receive and return the
    effects to me in the upper part of James River, either in rum,
    sugar, Madeira wine, turnery, earthenware, or anything else you may
    judge convenient to this country (fish excepted)....

Evidently at least some good salt was now at hand to preserve the roe herring that choked the
rivers and creeks in the spring. The salt-herring breakfast was on its way to becoming a Virginia
institution, and the salt-fish monopolies of New England and Canada were cracking after three-quarters
of a century.

The score of "firsts" in the Virginia fishery world have been noted as they occurred. Among
them were the first fishery statistics, the first licensing law, the first price control, the
first diamond-back terrapin, the first conservation measures. And now in 1698 there was the
first agitation against polluted waters:

    We, the Council and Burgesses of the present General Assembly,
    being sensible to the great mischiefs and inconveniences that
    accrue to the inhabitants of this, his Majesty's Colony and
    Dominion of Virginia, by killing of whales within the capes
    thereof, in all humility take leave to represent the same unto Your
    Excellency and withal to acquaint you that by the means thereof
    great quantities of fish are poisoned and destroyed and the rivers
    also made noisome and offensive. For prevention of which evils in
    regard the restraint of the killing of whales is a branch of His
    Majesty's royal prerogative.

    We humbly pray that Your Excellency [the Governor, Francis
    Nicholson] will be pleased to issue out a proclamation forbidding
    all persons whatsoever to strike or kill any whales within the bay
    of Chesapeake in the limits of Virginia which we hope will prove an
    effectual means to prevent the many evils that arise therefrom.

As Jamestown reached the end of its span, the fisheries came of age. Inequities were being
ironed out, methods were being perfected, and planners were at work on ways of employing more
and more of the fast-growing population in searching out and making available the bounty of
the fair Chesapeake.

At the start of the 18th century, however, there was little evidence of an organized industry
in any phase. Everywhere were unlimited opportunities for exploitation. The abundance of oysters
still impressed travelers. In the extract to follow, Francis Louis Michel of Switzerland speaks
of the method of tonging oysters in 1701, but note that he says, "They usually pull from six
to ten times." This could be taken to mean that each individual procured his own oysters from
the lavish supply virtually at his doorstep, and stopped as soon as he had a "mess" to enjoy
over the week-end:

