233. As truths from good have all power, so falsities from evil have no power at all;{1} and
as all in hell are in falsities from evil they have no power against truth and good. But what
power they have among themselves, and what power evil spirits have before they are cast into
hell, will be told hereafter.

  {Footnote 1} Falsity from evil has no power, because truth from
  food has all power (n. 6784, 10481).

234. XXVII. THE SPEECH OF ANGELS.

Angels talk with each other just as men do in the world, and on various subjects, as on domestic
matters, and on matters of the civil state, and of moral, and spiritual life. And there is
no difference except that their talk is more intelligent than that of men, because it is from
more interior thought. I have been permitted to associate with them frequently, and to talk
with them as friend with friend, and sometimes as stranger with stranger; and as I was then
in a state like theirs I knew no otherwise than that I was talking with men on the earth.

235. Angelic speech, like human speech, is distinguished into words; it is also audibly uttered
and heard; for angels, like men, have mouth, tongue, and ears, and an atmosphere in which the
sound of their speech is articulated, although it is a spiritual atmosphere adapted to angels,
who are spiritual. In their atmosphere angels breathe and utter words by means of their breath,
as men do In their atmosphere.{1}

  {Footnote 1} In the heavens there is respiration, but it is of
  an interior kind (n. 3884, 3885) from experience (n. 3884,
  3885, 3891, 3893). There are differing respirations there,
  varying in accordance with their states (n. 1119, 3886, 3887,
  3889, 3892, 3893). The evil are wholly unable to breathe in
  heaven, and they are suffocated if they go there (n. 3894).

236. In the entire heaven all have the same language, and they all understand one another,
to whatever society, near or remote, they belong. Language there is not learned but is instinctive
with everyone, for it flows from their very affection and thought, the tones of their speech
corresponding to their affections, and the vocal articulations which are words corresponding
to the ideas of thought that spring from the affections; and because of this correspondence
the speech itself is spiritual, for it is affection sounding and thought speaking. All your actions and suffering and antics will help us to do true, we your Friends and friends
and all reasonable - laugh - forgive me, what can we do differently about it - so either you laugh
from the skin and the world beyond - or back into our colorful Wreath back.

So you would do better if you no longer wrote to me. I do not come to you, this I I conspired.
But I expect you to contact me if you see me once again to delight.

Rothe.

The answer to this letter came.

Tenth Letter

Honesta to the Pastor Claudius, one of her relatives in the countryside

Do you also know well that we have a new Werther, still probably worse than that, one Idris,
who is in the full force of the word, and the niche that Mr. Wieland left empty at the end
of his hero, has studied with all the violence is a living picture. In short, it the young heart
that you have to sometimes seen in our house, he was very flattering
the woman, but always in his expressions something romantic, which
I order as much better liked.

He resigned in full seriousness its operation, and is in the Odenwald gone and become a hermit. Everyone
REDT bedaurt it and the harm that such Writings serve. I claim that the reason of it in his heart,
and that He would have been without Werther and Idris what he is.

The person he loves is a countess who, in fact, a right pattern of all perfections is, as they were described
to me. She dances like an angel draws, paints, for life, speaks all languages, is friendly and
affectionate with everyone, in short, it well deserves that person is a man loses his head. All
their hours should be divided, that they are never idle, it keeps only a correspondence, including
some government ministers Secretary would not find enough, and the letters she writes all during the
time when it is styled on hand so that she did not rest on their period of employment . Take away It
must be a dear creature, it is to hear about the accident of poor heart have, and be heartbroken
about it, because she has a mind that does not like to offend a child would like. He got some
of her letters in the hands, which during their stay had on the land to the widow hollow written
here. You know the widow in the hollow Laubacher Strasse in the big red house. Heart should have
stayed with her.

The strangest thing is that he knows his idol yet of person, although he used all it can to get
to see. He has another for them, and therefore considered a very wrong idea of her taken to his cell.

The
young lady knows Schatouilleuse the countess also because it often
comes to her house like, but not much good to tell her.

She says she affective horrible, now is the only natural because her way of thinking must be
distinguished from that of their worlds apart.

It is said that the countess was going to write about poor heart to
him again, perhaps to cope .

Bring I do not have time to tell you more, although I usually so
reluctant white paper uebriglasse.

Our house is full of strangers who have come to Easter mass. If it
all about you could come a few days.

The wonderful Mr. Hokum is also there.

Honesta.
Eleventh letter

Heart to Rothen

I am heartbroken that my hermitage
is a fable of the city. Yesterday is a ** Lot of people from here
have been there to see and talk to me, and me several times while
have called, among many others the names of those who I the walls
of my hut and the lifeless trees to name hardly have the heart. But
when I was brought back into my former state, and thus into the natural thought proper to man,
and wished to recall what I had heard I could not; for there were thousands of things unadapted
to the ideas of natural thought, and therefore inexpressible except by variegations of heavenly
light, and thus not at all by human words. [3] Also the ideas of thought of the angels from
which their words spring are modifications of the light of heaven, and the affections from
which the tones of the words spring are variations of the heat of heaven, the light of heaven
being Divine truth or wisdom, and the heat of heaven the Divine good or love (see above, n.
126-140); and the angels have their affection from the Divine love, and their thought from
the Divine wisdom.{1}

  {Footnote 1} The ideas of angels, from which they speak, are
  expressed by wonderful variegations of the light of heaven (n.
  1646, 3343, 3993).

240. Because the speech of angels proceeds directly from their affection, and the ideas of
their thought are the various forms into which their general affection is distributed (see
above, n. 236), angels can express in a moment what a man cannot express in half an hour; also
they can set forth in a few words what has been expressed in writing on many pages; and this,
too, has been proved to me by much experience.{1} Thus the angels' ideas of thought and the
words of their speech make one, like effecting cause and effect; for what is in the ideas of
thought as cause is presented in the words as effect, and this is why every word comprehends
in itself so many things. Also all the particulars of angelic thought, and thus of angelic
speech, appear when presented to view like a thin wave or circumfluent atmosphere, in which
are innumerable things in their order derived from angelic wisdom, and these enter another's
thought and affect him. The ideas of thought of everyone, both angel and man, are presented
to view in the light of heaven, whenever the Lord pleases.{2}

  {Footnote 1} Angels can express by their speech in a moment
  more than a man can express by his in half an hour; and they
  can also express things that do not fall into the expressions
  of human speech (n. 1641-1643, 1645, 4609, 7089).

  {Footnote 2} The innumerable things contained in one idea of
  thought (n. 1008, 1869, 4946, 6613-6618). The ideas of man's
  thought are opened in the other life, and what they are is
  presented to view to the life (n. 1869, 3310, 5510). What their
  appearance is (n. 6601, 8885). The ideas of angels of the
  inmost heaven present an appearance of flamy light (n. 6615).
  The ideas of angels of the outmost heaven present an appearance
  of thin white clouds (n. 6614). An angelic idea seen, from
  which there was a radiation towards the Lord (n. 6620). Ideas
  of thought extend themselves widely into the societies of
  angels round about (n. 6598-6613).

241. The speech of angels of the Lord's celestial kingdom resembles the speech of the angels
of His spiritual kingdom, but it is from more interior thought. Celestial angels are in good
of love to the Lord, and therefore speak from wisdom; while spiritual angels are in the good
of charity towards the neighbor, which in its essence is truth (n. 215), and therefore speak
from intelligence, for wisdom is from good, and intelligence is from truth. For this reason
the speech of celestial angels is like a gentle stream, soft, and as it were continuous; but
the speech of spiritual angels is slightly vibratory and divided. The speech of celestial angels
has much of the tones of the vowels u and o; while the speech of spiritual angels has much
of the tones of e and i;{1} for the vowels stand for tone, and in the tone there is affection,
the tone of the speech of angels corresponding to their affection, as has been said above (n.
236); while the vocal articulations, which are words, correspond to the ideas of thought which
spring from affection. As the vowels are not essential to a language, but serve by means of
tones to elevate the words to the various affections according to each one's state, so in the
Hebrew tongue the vowels are not expressed, and are also variously pronounced. From this a
man's quality in respect to his affection and love is known to the angels. Also in the speech
of celestial angels there are no hard consonants, and it rarely passes from one consonant to
another without the interposition of a word beginning with a vowel. This is why in the Word
the particle "and" is so often interposed, as can be seen by those who read the Word in the
Hebrew, in which this particle is soft, beginning and ending with a vowel sound. Again, in
the Word, in Hebrew, it can in some measure be seen from the words used whether they belong
to the celestial class or the spiritual class, that is, whether they involve good or truth.
Those involving good partake largely of the sounds of u and o, and also somewhat of a, while
those involving truth partake of the sounds of e and i. Because it is especially in tones that
affections express themselves, so in human speech, when great subjects are discussed, such
as heaven [caelum] and God [Deus], those words are preferred that contain the vowels u and
o; and musical tones, whenever such themes are to be expressed, rise to the same fullness;
but not when less exalted themes are rendered. By such means musical art is able to express
affections of various kinds.

  {Footnote 1} [As these vowels are pronounced in European
  language. -- Tr.]

242. In angelic speech there is a kind of symphony that cannot be described;{1} which comes
from the pouring forth and diffusion of the thoughts and affections from which speech flows,
in accordance with the form of heaven, and all affiliation and all communication in heaven
is in accordance with that form. That angels are affiliated in accordance with the form of
heaven, and that their thoughts and affections flow in accordance with it may be seen above
(n. 200-212).

  {Footnote 1} In angelic speech there is a symphony with
  harmonious cadence (n. 1648, 1649, 7191).

243. Speech like that in the spiritual world is inherent in every man in his interior intellectual
part; but man does not know this, because this speech does not with man, as with angels, fall
into words analogous to affection; nevertheless this is what causes man, when he enters the
other life, to come into the same speech as spirits and angels, and thus to know how to speak
without instruction.{1} But more on this subject hereafter.

  {Footnote 1} There is spiritual or angelic speech belonging to
  man, though he does not know it (n. 4104). The ideas of the
  internal man are spiritual, but during his life in the world
  man perceives them naturally, because he then thinks in what is
  natural (n. 10236, 10237, 10551). Man comes after death into
  his interior ideas (n. 3226, 3342, 3343, 10568, 10604). Those
  ideas then form his speech (n. 2470-2479).

244. In heaven, as has been said above, all have one speech; but it is varied in this respect,
that the speech of the wise is more interior and more full of variations of affections and
ideas of thought, while the speech of the less wise is more external and less full; and the
speech of the simple is still more external, consisting of words from which the meaning is
to be gathered in the same way as when men are talking to one another. There is also speech
by the face, terminating in something sonorous modified by ideas. Again, there is speech in
which heavenly representatives are mingled with the ideas, and go forth from ideas to sight.
There is also speech by gestures that correspond to affections, and represent things like those
expressed by their words. There is speech by means of the generals of affections and the generals
of thoughts. There is speech like thunder; besides other kinds.

245. The speech of evil and infernal spirits is likewise natural to them because it is from
affections; but it is from evil affections and consequent filthy ideas, to which angels are
utterly averse. Thus the modes of speaking in hell are opposite to those of heaven; and in
consequence evil spirits cannot endure angelic speech, and angels cannot endure infernal speech.
To the angels infernal speech is like a bad odor striking the nostrils. The speech of hypocrites,
who are such as are able to feign themselves angels of light, resembles in respect to words
the speech of angels, but in respect to affections and consequent ideas of thought it is the
direct opposite. Consequently, when the inner nature of their speech is perceived as wise angels
perceive it, it is heard as the gnashing of teeth, and strikes with horror.

246. XXVIII. THE SPEECH OF ANGELS WITH MAN.

Angels who talk with man do not talk in their own language, nor in any language unknown to
man, but in the man's own language, or in some other language with which he is acquainted.
This is so because when angels speak with man they turn themselves to him and conjoin themselves
with him; and this conjunction of angel with man causes the two to be in like thought; and
as man's thought coheres to his memory, and this is the source of his speech, the two have
the same language. Moreover, when an angel or a spirit comes to a man, and by turning to him
is conjoined to him, he so enters into the entire memory of the man that he is scarcely conscious
that he does not himself know whatever the man knows, including his languages. [2] I have talked
with angels about this, and have said that perhaps they thought that they were addressing me
in my mother tongue, since it is so perceived; and yet it was I and not they that spoke; and
that this is evident from the fact that angels cannot utter a single word of human language
(see n. 237); furthermore, human language is natural and they are spiritual, and spiritual
beings cannot give expression to any thing in a natural way. To this they replied that they
are aware that their conjunction with the man with whom they are speaking is with his spiritual
thought; but because his spiritual thought flows into his natural thought, and his natural
thought coheres to his memory, the language of the man and all his knowledge appear to them
to be their own; and that this is so for this reason, that while it is the Lord's pleasure
that there should be such a conjunction with and sort of insertion of man into heaven, yet
the state of man is now such that there can no longer be such conjunction with angels, but
only with spirits who are not in heaven. [3] When I talked about this with spirits also they
were unwilling to believe that it is the man that speaks, insisting that they spoke in man,
also that man's knowledge is their knowledge and not the man's knowledge, consequently that
everything that man knows is from them. I tried to convince them by many proofs that this is
not true, but in vain. Who are meant by spirits and who are meant by angels will be told further
on when the world of spirits is treated of.

247. There is another reason why angels and spirits conjoin themselves so closely with man
as not to know but that what is man's is their own, namely, that there is such conjunction
between the spiritual world and the natural world in man that the two are seemingly one. But
inasmuch as man has separated himself from heaven the Lord has provided that there should be
angels and spirits with each individual, and that man should be ruled by the Lord through these.
This is the reason for such close conjunction. It would have been otherwise if man had not
separated himself; for in that case he might have been ruled by the Lord through the general
influx from heaven, without spirits and angels being adjoined to him. But this subject will
be specially considered in what follows when the conjunction of heaven with man is treated of.

248. The speech of an angel or spirit with man is heard by him as audibly as the speech of
man with man, yet by himself only, and not by others who stand near; and for the reason that
the speech of an angel or spirit flows first into a man's thought, and by an inner way into
his organ of hearing, and thus moves it from within; while the speech of man with man flows
first into the air and by an outward way into his organ of hearing, and moves it from without.
Evidently, then, the speech of an angel or spirit with man is heard within him; but as the
organs of hearing are thus equally moved, the speech is equally audible. That the speech of
an angel or a spirit flows down from within even into the ear has been made clear to me by
the fact that it flows also into the tongue, causing a slight vibration, but without any such
motion as when the man himself by means of the tongue forms the sound of speech into words.

249. But at the present day to talk with spirits is rarely granted because it is dangerous;{1}
for then the spirits know, what otherwise they do not know, that they are with man; and evil
spirits are such that they hold man in deadly hatred, and desire nothing so much as to destroy
him both soul and body, and this they do in the case of those who have so indulged themselves
in fantasies as to have separated from themselves the enjoyments proper to the natural man.
Some also who lead a solitary life sometimes hear spirits talking with them, and without danger;
but that the spirits with them may not know that they are with man they are at intervals removed
by the Lord; for most spirits are not aware that there is any other world than that in which
they live, and therefore are unaware that there are men anywhere else; and this is why man
is not permitted to speak with them in return. If he did they would know. Again, those who
meditate much on religious subjects, and are so intent upon them as to see them as it were
inwardly within themselves, begin to hear spirits speaking with them; for religious persuasions,
whatever they are, when man dwells upon them by himself and does not adapt them to the various
things of use in the world, penetrate to the interiors and rest there, and occupy the whole
spirit of the man, and even enter into the spiritual world and act upon the spirits there.
But such persons are visionaries and enthusiasts; and whatever spirit they hear they believe
to be the Holy Spirit, when, in fact, such spirits are enthusiastic spirits. Such spirits see
falsities as truths, and so seeing them they induce not themselves only but also those they
flow into to believe them. Such spirits, however, have been gradually removed, because they
began to lure others into evil and to gain control over them. Enthusiastic spirits are distinguished
from other spirits by their believing themselves to be the Holy Spirit, and believing what
they say to be Divine. As man honors such spirits with Divine worship they do not attempt to
harm him. I have sometimes talked with them, and the wicked things they infused into their
worshipers were then disclosed. They dwell together towards the left, in a desert place.

  {Footnote 1} Man is able to talk with spirits and angels; and
  the ancient people frequently talked with them (n. 67-69, 784,
  1634, 1636, 7802). In some earths angels and spirits appear in
  human form and talk with the inhabitants (n. 10751, 10752). But
  on this earth at this day it is dangerous to talk with spirits,
  unless man is in true faith, and is led by the Lord (n. 784,
  9438, 10751).

250. But to speak with the angels of heaven is granted only to those who are in truths from
good, especially to those who are in the acknowledgment of the Lord and of the Divine in His
Human, because this is the truth in which the heavens are. For, as it has been shown above,
the Lord is the God of heaven (n. 2-6); it is the Divine of the Lord that makes heaven (n.
7-12); the Divine of the Lord in heaven is love to Him and charity towards the neighbor from
Him (n. 13-19); the whole heaven in one complex reflects a single man; also every society of
heaven; and every angel is in complete human form, and this from the Divine Human of the Lord
(n. 59-86). All of which makes evident that only those whose interiors are opened by Divine
Truths, even to the Lord, are able to speak with the angels of heaven, since it is into these
truths with man that the Lord flows, and when the Lord flows in heaven also flows in. Divine
truths open the interiors of man because man was so created as to be in respect to his internal
man an image of heaven, and in respect to his external an image of the world (n. 57); and the
internal man is opened only by means of Divine truth going forth from the Lord, because that
is the light of heaven and the life of heaven (n. 126-140).

251. The influx of the Lord Himself into man is into his forehead, and from that into the whole
face, because the forehead of man corresponds to love, and the face corresponds to all his
interiors.{1} The influx of spiritual angels into man is into his head every where, from the
forehead and temples to the whole part that contains the cerebrum, because that region of the
head corresponds to intelligence; but the influx of celestial angels is into that part of the
head that contains the cerebellum, and is called the occiput, from the ears all around even
to the neck, for that region corresponds to wisdom. All the speech of angels with man enters
by these ways into his thought; and by this means I have perceived what angels they were that
spoke with me.

  {Footnote 1} The "forehead" corresponds to heavenly love, and
  consequently in the Word signifies that love (n. 9936). The
  "face" corresponds to the interiors of man, which belong to
  thought and affection (n. 1568, 2988 2989, 3631, 4796, 4797,
  4800, 5165, 5168, 5695, 9306). The face is formed to
  correspondence with the interiors (n. 4791-4805, 5695).
  Consequently the "face," in the Word, signifies the interiors
  (n. 1999, 2434, 3527, 4066, 4796).

252. 

Third letter

Rothe O! a hundred times I remember the woman who sat in a Catholic church where she understood
not a word from the Latin sermon, except for a certain name, their
Devotion was given to please and she came alone to the church.

You know that I have to get me here because I resigned my ministry, the whole Days to inform
them. Mattet me off a bit, all the different heads on so different ways to be comprehensible.
In the evening I go to rest up for the widow hollow and if I can
also say nothing more than the name of a certain person hear, me right
back so well and am so pleased to bed.

Fourth Letter

I see I see, that deceives the widow hollow to me. But let them, but she is also probably present,
and since it is not in my fortune is a human with the world Actions to make happy, it should
be happy at least one person on this had kind of bliss in the world already done waiver, at
least by their own Phantaseien have made her happy.

Between us, she believes, in fact, I love them. Even more, other people believe it, because I do it
so staunchly the court. I love it really, but not like she wants to be loved.

I is almost too long that I do not see the countess. Nowhere, nowhere can it be found. And the eternal
Sisyphean work of my daily work without the slightest pleasure and relaxation very tired.
If only I through all my trouble was still hosted.

I zerarbeite of people who are carriers as stones and what is the
worst of me with the bitterest Accusations hurt that they can not
go any further with me.

Hollow widow speaks not a word about the countess more.

Fifth Letter

Fraeulein Schatouilleuse to Rothen

As T -, are you doing for so long on the land which it absolutely intolerable. Your heart,
so no one gets to see, to enjoy even more, the hollow, the widow
probably at its Tunnel bed bound.

It's disgraceful that the man she is so faithful dog-like, since it is apparently behind him.

Do
you know something new, Rothe, quite something new, that the countess Stella's bride and the with
a nasty old man, but has a lot of money.

This post, insured, is Mr hearts taste nauseous.

If he just did not learn too gross, I think he shoots himself.

Do you not tell me whether you get good in brown mountain soft floss? And what there are the
Chinese flowers. Bring me some of the people here are judenmaessig expensive.

Sixth Letter

Heart to Rothen

Brother! it is something on the wallpaper, I am the happiest of all mortals. The Countess - I can
hardly believe my ears and eyes - she wants to get me to paint. O incomprehensible sky! as a father
you care for a forlorn forsaken creature. My last expectant and aspiring forces were already
exhausted, I died - I address me again, I stand, I hurry, I fly - fly against my big hopes.

Seventh
Letter

Widow hollow at the countess Stella

I finally did find a way, dear countess, the image you Lord Rothen
promised in his collection of paintings, without him it's a person
in the world for whom to give notice.

My friend's heart is in close connection with a local Painter, this
is as if I would have him secretly through the heart can order, you
unexpectedly surprise in my room, you face a little scared, I ask
you then for forgiveness and say, because they intended to travel
away from here soon, I should have give me the opportunity to take
advantage, do during your last visit at least your picture on to keep
the room.

My heart all this has given himself so, and you can focus on leave him, that he will set up everything
so the painter that you in any way by be compromised.

Eighth Letter

Heart to Rothen

I have just received a wonderful letter from a Hessian colonels in services, the Formerly studied
in Leipzig together with me has, and I antraegt the post of adjutant with him, if I want to
accompany him to America. How, Rothe!

This leap from the schoolmaster of life to the first season of the
head of the honor and happiness, the sky ladder on which all I to
climb hope my wishes.

What do you think? And her picture I take with me.

This Talisman to overthrow a thousand bayonets bare - Ha, Rothe, feel that you might like my heart
beats! Future week, they can be painted. O the great chords of fate goettlichguetigen of fate,
which we in the clouded hours through our curses so much wrong doing. Do not you hear it too?
You do not bless it? How is everything a combination of everything, everything needs to unite
- why do you not answer me then?

Ninth Letter

Red to the colonel of Plettenberg

I send you over here, my friend!

I am entrusted with a letter from your on my conscience Countess niece. There it seems to me
that it contains a further pre-request for the poor heart, for its fate in America is afraid of
her. He is not in fact made the soldiers, much he imagines to be one.

Would not it be possible that it the Electors ** Could recommend, to the vacant Hofjunkerstelle. I will
forward it to yourself Cell and bring about various circumstances of his coming and his recent fortunes
Verbally give you better insight.

Tenth Letter

Heart to Rothe

Eternal bliss must rest on that day and under the glow of heaven rosenlaechelnden at the same
two great souls, the inexorable fate that separated from each other long, in the highest ecstasy
of love kissing.

Let me come to myself, Rothe, I can not speak - can not express the feelings - but if ever there is joy
on earth, it was you this look again - after so much longing - so look again - you see, all the
joy I Schneidt heart, I sit there, half breathless, hop all my pulses,
for pleasure and a lustful tears tremble over the other falls from
my eyes down.

The story of the day - but all that you have not seen! How can I tell it? I came up with the painter.
No, I sent ahead of the painter and after a while I came after. She was sitting - sitting there
in all its glory - and I was able to face her and with insatiable eyes stimulus for stimulus, one eye
movement to movement. This was a Match the colors and expressions! When the sky opened up in the
moment I would, could ' he told me nothing beautiful way.

The pleasure sparkled in her eyes, oh what a Elysian Youth and blooming dueftend her cheeks, her
smile I conjured up the soul from the Body in the vast land of unlimited
chimeras.

And her breasts, on which my respectful Look not dare linger, the kindness and pity me entgegenhob
- Brother, I would like all day on my face are, and thank you, thank you, thank you -

Eleventh letter

Heart to Rothen

What a terrible storm has replaced this heavenly sunshine! Rothe, I do not know if I'm still
alive, if I'm still there or whether all this is just a frightening rate Dream. Also you are
a traitor - no, it can not be. My heart refuses to recognize the terrible pretenses to believe
my imagination but I can not help that. You, too, Rothe - never!

Send me back the image, or I terminate terrible.

You have to now have this image and with a bloody fist I will know zurueckzufodern's if you
do not give me's in good.

Your silence, your mysterious nature against me - against me, Rothe - consider what will say
this - but no, I can, can not believe it. You can join a so black Plot have been not guilty.

I will tell you everything, but I fodere from you that you my sincerity with sincerity reward.

I
flew in the afternoon, as soon as my information was gone, the widow hollow up - can You imagine
with what feelings? I wanted both of her hands motionless in my Lips, press down on his knees
before throwing her and with her eyes and tears for all thank the pleasure she had procured
me the morning. But God! I was like the spoil? I found her - in bed. With the true voice of
a despairing they REDT me: "Unfortunately, away from me what you want from me" - "What is you best widow Hollow
"-" You see your work as a traitor "-" I blame for your illness - Yes blame on my "" Death
"-" How "-" Ask your heart, villain! "

I was out of anger for me, I started to ask, I began to flatter, it's crying, to swear - What
cruel confusion had caused our misunderstanding, or rather my negligence, tear them more of
their error. She was about my conduct the Morning became jealous - jealous they - I had never
let me dream about. If she had only once during the entire period of our acquaintance saw
in the mirror, how much suffering they could have saved it!

Meanwhile, the man seeks all his bliss in self-deception. Perhaps I betray me. Be it what it
may, I want the image have again, or I'll kill myself .-- Now comes the worst erst. I told her,
I would you send the image, because I really thought the countess
would have perhaps wished that you should also see it before, before
I mitnaehme's to America.

Now she told me that I insult the countess the most cruel and unpardonable would, if I do not
stick to an oath promise, you send the picture and it never wiederzufodern
- "It wiederzufodern never, "I said," how can you ask for the "-"

Yes I ask, " she said, "and that orders to the countess, as the first
has already happened."

Now, imagine, they had to open my room while I was away from home
Lord To leave and removed the image.

I had set before me, like to take a Kopei and can send them to you, but keep the original for me,
because the painter's hand it was visibly led by an invisible force and I what the artist Viewed
call the divine enthusiasm, because I really work - and now - I would have they may tear with teeth
- all gone - Rothe, the image again, or death!

What's more, that I should travel the day after tomorrow. I wish I could wait for you. Send
only if you can not come himself, the picture on Fernand, who knows my address. Oh, my heart is
in an uproar, which can not be described.

What could cause for the countess have to paint the picture you can - No, it is a Incidence of
hollow widow. Answer me that.

Heart.

Part Three

First Letter

Honesta to the Pastor Claudius

They want to know the fate of poor heart and makes him such a speedy and strange Decision, as is the
one to go to America, can move. Dear pastor, to the To answer, I have to go back again and
start a rather prolix narrative, to me, because I love to write letters, a very enjoyable pastime.

I have since recovered full message from the heart first acquaintance
with the widow hollow, ill-fated from the passion that he put together
for the countess Stella, of the causes, all met to maintain this passion,
which every reasonable person would otherwise be incomprehensible,
as the countess not only so far about his exalted status, but also
in five years ago a bride with a certain Supreme is Plettenberg, who
has been through a campaign against the colonists in America has,
so he only had the opportunity to bring themselves up to the General
or Generallieutnant, because he dare not be otherwise, with the father
of the countess to stop them.

Is secretly But under her and her relatives all with him already identified .-- All these
messages will give you the keys to your heart wonderful character
and actions.

This story is so like the whole heart, a life such unbearable mixture of light and dark, that
I will not be able to write without intimate scandal. No state the soul is fatal to me as if I laugh
and cry at the same time must be, you know, I will all have all either raised or omitted Melancholei
merriment - however is it the way it is and I can not help it.

The widow hollow - you know the widow hollow and I do not need its ugliness to To describe but
if you no longer want to remember her face, she has sunken Eyes, the mouth twisted to one side,
which is a real grave, which, when it opens, Dead legs, has a sunken nose, in short all that
ugly and terrible in nature - here, let me get up and break off, the description has attacked
me, especially when I consider that the delicate, finely organized the heart was in love with
her -

Second letter

The widow Hollow is a person of much fortune, and what you will not
believe me, of an extraordinary intellect.

You can only see this clear-eyed from the fact that they really made the plan, the fine young Heart
to kidnap his heart, and that this plan - which is incomprehensible
to me - executed added.

I do not know what has charms they knew to draw him into her house. I picture's before so
it was all over the city known to be a great prolix Correspondence with nobles and scholars,
has it all authentic through her mind make to know. Heart, has always been a fool to characters
and in the real world they visit had too much disgust and moods, just here to do a treasure,
and - as they for all those correspondents are also making shops - all these people their way of
behaving, the different masses of light and shadow, of self-love and generosity, or good, with
people from lower in tone, avarice and arrogance of their Character here, as it has from the first
hand. Now there is the further that they themselves an unusually large gift to tell, she knows
all the items they once seen, the same must be sufficiently and to argue that they believe can also
be seen briefly as the heart first time with her was in the company,
where she pulled out for, like some of her letters, and listened to
them a room in her house for a very inexpensive price rent had, he
immediately moved in with her the following day, and now he was for
all our societies lost.

He came every three days only in our house, and did it so cold that we only ever him Terzianfieber
called. Most recently, he was gone and who did it lost the least, those were us. Jetzo until I
learned of the Lord Rothe the true context of his aberrations, I begin to regret it.

Imagine, they dug out the letters of the countess who since childhood stands with her great acquaintance,
and since that time ago in ** every single shop she can make. Now I have already described
the countess Stella, still have to You know, she writes like an angel. I have seen letters from
her, she knows the to give all things least something explicit, that even their smallest commissions
just read with interest, as the most well-written novel. My heart was out when he further and
further into this sanctuary came, letter for letter, this character is always beautiful he developed,
for here were letters from the first years of her life and she had never believed, against the
widow hollow in the least be adjusted or, nowadays generally is allowed to reproduce vibrant.

Now
the widow committed the cruel cunning, to conceal the heart completely, that the countess stand
with any man in person in the world connections of the heart.

All the newer Letters in which something occurred from Plettenberg, she hid him carefully, heart,
of the always, as you know, maybe by the fate of his youth, his strangely enough will was extremely
voted romantic, perhaps it believed possible that this heart, he at least for the friendship
to him by time, patience and care might be true. He summarized So the gigantic resolution not
to leave until he was brought by the widow of hollow so far; that the countess Stella would
at least his girlfriend. summarized on the other hand, the Widow Hollow, the most einsah, that
heart could be bound only by stimuli of the soul and is for the ordinary and beautiful like
the face of the city was too good also the firm resolve not to leave until they are brought
by the letters of the countess as meaning that he is totally invisible on merits and got used
when he saw that his passion for the countess was a mere Chimaera them as their most trusted
friend in their place sat. So she kept the news of her secret connection with Plettenberg
as the Theatrical stroke back, which should decide the whole catastrophe. I very much fear that
Piece could terminate more tragic than funny.

Now the drama went on from both sides and the roles were played masterfully. Widow Hollow spoke always
of the countess and moved by the heart always tighter. They even had at a narration of the early years
of the same all their wit and their whole heart with all his hopes to participate, which her eyes
were so like their expressions a fire the heart often quite charmed. He drank the sweet poison
eagerly, but he needed the precaution to affective for all that a
certain coldness and indifference and, what was the most furious passion
in his heart to dress as a frosty admiration which charmed on the
other hand, the widow hollow to him, because thereby improving humorisiert,
always, that I may say so, was enthusiastic, so that they never remendy
better was as if they came to this matter, and they all discourses
of ordinary life always find an opportunity to know, then relent.

To this was added that this matter an unparalleled touchstone of
her wit was, for all that their purpose always in mind to retain and
imperceptible, but they think very solid and reliable steps their
large state prisoners entgegenzufuehren same.

At the end they left from time undermine some time not to do with favorable descriptions of
the face of the countess, but said all these little mistakes would be on the properties of their
mind so darkened - I can not write, my pastor, I have to laugh out loud when I look at the face of
the widow think in these speeches and the surprised and embarrassed face, with her heart must zugehoert
have.

Third letter

They went so far as to in their letters to the countess of her new acquaintance REDT with heart
or rather this new and rare boasted conquest because she think as of course, refer to the descriptions
they made of his character and dissolute advantage of the countess were also obtained for him a very
favorable response to expressions had. She held this stratagem necessary to the fire that once
in his Heart is blown and he burn in politics on his face and dark, overcast and very often left,
not to let fade. Who was happier than heart? He searched in all these Expressions of entirely innocent
countess real traces of what he felt for them, and then it went downhill with his intellect,
genius and talent gallop. He heard them had arrived in the Winterlustbarkeiten **. He ran everywhere
around like a madman, to look for them to see them to find the image
of this invisible deity, which he adored.

You can imagine that he has had all cost, so he had at his narrowly tailored fortune necessarily
fall into debt. Finally, when his money went out and wanted to borrow no more, because it
was so much reason uebriggeblieben still that it can, even if it would have cost him his life,
business, never about money to the widow of hollow wanted to give her no right to him about what
they are lurking only - he marched out of the City and in a hermitage, where no one heard further
from him or saw.

Rothe came behind all this. He has long been access in the home of the countess, at all as it
has here in the best houses, because in the Big key Shops will be
used with success and his personal shares of his company to most pleasant
exercise in the world. He tried everything to bring the heart back
into the city, because it was all in vain, he turned to the countess
and told her frankly the course the case and the complicated role
played by the widow in the same hollow. The countess, how you can
easily imagine, the very innermost deepest regret was for the aberration
a man of so many talents, as described by Rothe her the heart, and
asked him to her a to provide resources with which to cure him, perhaps.
 Consequently as thought and perception
  are more interior they are clearer (n. 5920).

  {Footnote 2} The sensual is the outmost of man's life adhering
  to and inhering in his bodily part (n. 5077, 5767, 9212, 9216,
  9331, 9730). He is called a sensual man who judges all things
  and draws all his conclusions from the bodily senses, and
  believes nothing except what he sees with his eyes and touches
  with his hands (n. 5094, 7693). Such a man thinks in externals,
  and not interiorly in himself (n. 5089, 5094, 6564, 7693). His
  interiors are so closed up that he sees nothing of spiritual
  truth in them (n. 6564, 6844, 6845). In a word, he is in gross
  natural light and thus perceives nothing that is from the light
  of heaven (n. 6201, 6310, 6564, 6598, 6612, 6614, 6622, 6624,
  6844, 6845). Interiorly he is antagonistic to the things of
  heaven and the church (n. 6201, 6316, 6844, 6845, 6948, 6949).
  The learned who have confirmed themselves against the truths of
  the church come to be such (n. 6316). Sensual men are more
  cunning and malicious than others (n. 7693, 10236). They reason
  keenly and cunningly, but from the bodily memory, in which they
  place all intelligence (n. 195, 196, 5700, 10236). But they
  reason from the fallacies of the senses (n. 5084, 6948, 6949,
  7693).

268. It can be seen how great the wisdom of angels is from the fact that in the heavens there
is a communication of all things; intelligence and wisdom are communicated from one to another,
and heaven is a common sharing of all goods; and this for the reason that heavenly love is
such that it wishes what is its own to be another's; consequently no one in heaven perceives
his own good in himself to be good unless it is also in another; and this is the source of
the happiness of heaven. This the angels derive from the Lord, for such is His Divine love.
That there is such a communication of all things in the heavens it has been permitted me to
know by experience. Certain simple spirits were at one time taken up into heaven, and when
there they entered into angelic wisdom, and then understood things that they were never before
able to comprehend, and spoke things that they were unable to utter in their former state.

269. The wisdom of the angels is indescribable in words; it can only be illustrated by some
general things. Angels can express in a single word what a man cannot express in a thousand
words. Again, a single angelic word contains innumerable things that cannot be expressed in
the words of human language; for in each of the things uttered by angels there are arcana of
wisdom in continuous connection that human knowledges never reach. Again, what the angels fail
to express in the words of their speech they make up by the tone, in which there is an affection
for the things in their order; for (as has been said above, n. 236, 241) tones express affections,
as words express ideas of thought from the affections; and for this reason the things heard
in heaven are said to be ineffable. And that the replacement was not technically difficult
and they were prepared by an ancient ambivalence, she took along an ancient Relationship, which
still might not be long forgotten. The love goddess herself, who now took the place of the goddess
of death, was with her once been identical. Only the Greek Aphrodite was not without quite the
relationship with the underworld, although their chthonic Roll length to other gods, to Persephone,
the three-faceted Artemis-Hekate was given. The great mother goddesses of the Eastern peoples
but all seem equally well Tools such as gutters Vernichterinnen, goddesses of life and death of fertilization
as goddesses to have been. Including the replacement upheld a wish contrary to our location
on a old identity back.

The same consideration answers the question of where the train of choice in the myth of the three
Sisters is advised. There has again been a perversion of desire. Choice is at the point of necessity,
of destiny. So supersedes man's death, he in his thinking has acknowledged. There is no greater
triumph of wish-fulfillment possible. Man choose where you actually obey the constraint, and
you choose, not the Terrible but the fairest and most desirable.

On closer inspection, however, we note that the distortions of the original myth, not thoroughly
enough to reveal themselves not by residual symptoms. The choice between the three sisters is actually
not a free choice, for it must necessarily be the third Do not hit where, as in Lear, all evil
will arise from it. The fairest and best which has replaced the goddess of death, has kept trains
that roam on the uncanny, so that we could guess what is hidden from them [11].

  [11] The Psyche of Apuleius has preserved plenty of features which its
  relationship to death urge. Your wedding will be prepared as a funeral,
  she must descend into the underworld and sinks afterwards in a dead-like
  sleep (Otto Rank).

  
  About the importance of the psyche as Spring goddess and as a "bride
of Death ", see A. Zinzow:" Psyche and Eros "(Hall 1881).

  
  
  In another Grimm's fairy tales (No. 179, The goose on Wells) is
  available as Cinderella at the variety of beautiful and ugly form
  of the third daughter, in which one probably a Indication of their
  dual nature - before and after the substitution - must see. This third
  is from her father after a trial violation, which coincides with the King
  Lear almost. It should has to specify the other as sisters, as she
  loved her father, finds but no other expression of their love as
the comparison with the Salt.

(Friendly message from Dr. Hanns Sachs)
We have been pursuing the myth and his change and hope the secret
motives of the have demonstrated conversion to. The wisdom of
the angels of the third or inmost heaven is incomprehensible even to those who are in the outmost
heaven, for the reason that the interiors of the angels of the third heaven have been opened
to the third degree, while the interiors of angels of the first heaven have been opened only
to the first degree; and all wisdom increases towards interiors and is perfected as these are
opened (n. 208, 267). [2] Because the interiors of the angels of the third or inmost heaven
have been opened to the third degree, Divine truths are as it were inscribed on them; for the
interiors of the third degree are more in the form of heaven than the interiors of the second
and first degrees, and the form of heaven is from the Divine truth, thus in accord with the
Divine wisdom, and this is why the truth is as it were inscribed on these angels, or are as
it were instinctive or inborn in them. Therefore as soon as these angels hear genuine Divine
truths they instantly acknowledge and perceive them, and afterwards see them as it were inwardly
in themselves. As the angels of that heaven are such they never reason about Divine truths,
still less do they dispute about any truth whether it is so or not; nor do they know what it
is to believe or to have faith. They say, "What is faith? for I perceive and see that a thing
is so." This they illustrate by comparisons; for example, that it would be as when any one
with a companion, seeing a house and the various things in it and around it, should say to
his companion that he ought to believe that these things exist, and that they are such as he
sees them to be; or seeing a garden and trees and fruit in it, should say to his companion
that he ought to have faith that there is a garden and trees and fruits, when yet he is seeing
them clearly with his eyes. For this reason these angels never mention faith, and have no idea
what it is; neither do they reason about Divine truths, still less do they dispute about any
truth whether it is so or not.{1} [3] But the angels of the first or outmost heaven do not
have Divine truths thus inscribed on their interiors, because with them only the first degree
of life is opened; therefore they reason about truths, and those who reason see almost nothing
beyond the fact of the matter about which they are reasoning, or go no farther beyond the subject
than to confirm it by certain considerations, and having confirmed it they say that it must
be a matter of faith and must be believed. [4] I have talked with angels about this, and they
said that the difference between the wisdom of the angels of the third heaven and the wisdom
of the angels of the first heaven is like that between what is clear and what is obscure; and
the former they compared to a magnificent palace full of all things for use, surrounded on
all sides by parks, with magnificent things of many kinds round about them; and as these angels
are in the truths of wisdom they can enter into the palace and behold all things, and wander
about in the parks in every direction and delight in it all. But it is not so with those who
reason about truths, especially with those who dispute about them, as such do not see truths
from the light of truth, but accept truths either from others or from the sense of the letter
of the Word, which they do not interiorly understand, declaring that truths must be believed,
or that one must have faith, and are not willing to have any interior sight admitted into these
things. The angels said that such are unable to reach the first threshold of the palace of
wisdom, still less to enter into it and wander about in its grounds, for they stop at the first
step. 

When we decorate Christmas trees and therefore they set equipped with lights, we carry our young
teachers in a sense, the customs of our appreciation from. Today I would like in many windows read
into it and see the rivalry of happiness on the faces of small and great; urge the noisy kids
in little rooms I would listen how quiet bliss of parents, an only child - "a" trembling happiness
- call their own. To sick I can not imagine children at Christmas time, much less like I imagine
that death has somewhere knocked and a young fledge made little soul. I can not comfort To get
where I would do without him yourself. But remember your I want her depressed Beings that you
shy away from the bright glow of the candles and presses you into a corner of the room. What
is it that troubles you prepared? That you on the left leg a little limp, You good boy, let's not
up to challenge, your legs are straight enough to do your duty to do. And you, with your blond
braids, you sensible face, Do not fret too much, you that one shoulder is moved, you have humor
and accessing skills, you will straight shoulders, despite exercise once a good spirit of the household.
You will be more trusting, Brest her about them, and all come out gradually from the corner.
See, I have nothing to comfort you, as a good will and good words. Are we in the general images of
God, it is found in you sprained the one who twisted God. He bears it, and you ought can not
endure? Do you want to know which delicious secrets you stick in your brest Berget limbs, I
will tell you a tale that is as true as the great Tale of the creation of the world and world
government, and perhaps true, because it just is a fairy tale. Although not myself so much I wanted
to have invented this tale, but another German man, was located in the most recent major international
struggle against Paris and in his leisure hours, which gave him his hard work, a ribbon 'dreams
of French has co-written chimneys "for wife and children. A young doctor of philosophy from Schwab
has left this small book to my children last summer as a gift. »'S a nice ish's Buechler," he
said in his confidential dialect,' for which I begeischtert I, and for which I demand of every
righteous man Begeischterung. "I left it read to me from my children, and so for me the book,
in which in addition to the clever people an arrant rogue infected, very close to my heart. So I
promised my dear congregation of brest-like children, tell them a fairy tale, but has to leave
of her earlier Take me for who wanted to see if the poet has spoken? Also, I'm afraid a rain
and cloudy eyes, and may not want to be there when people are touched. The beautiful fairy tale
is to say, and reads:

The little hunchback girl.

There once was a woman who had one daughter who was very small and
pale and somewhat different from other children.

For if the woman was going out with him, were often the people stand,
looked at the child and whispered something.

Then, when the little girl's Mother asked why people tend to consider it as strange, the mother
always said, "Because you wear such a beautiful pretty new dress. "Then the little girl was happy.
Kamen However, she returned home, the mother her baby daughter in his arms, kissed it again
and over again and said, "You dear, sweet angel heart, what will become of you when I once'm dead?
No man knows what you are a dear angel, not even your father! "

After some time the mother became suddenly ill, and on the ninth day she died. As cast the father
of the little girl desperate for the death bed and wanted to with
his Woman be buried.

His friends talked to him, however, and consoled him, so he left it, and after a year he took
another woman, beautiful, younger and richer than the first, but so good it was not for long.

And
the little girl had all the time, since his mother had died, every day sat morning till night
in the room on the windowsill, for it was found no one who wanted to go out with him. It had become
even paler, and it was grown in the last It very little.

So when the new mother came into the house, she thought: "Now will you go walk again, front
the city, in the sunshine on the pretty funny ways in which the beautiful
shrubs and flowers are, and where many people are dressed.

"For it lived in a small, narrow streets, which shone in the sun only rarely, and when you click
on the window sill sat, we saw only a piece of blue sky, the size of a handkerchief. The new
mother went out every day, morning and afternoon. To this end they pulled each time a beautiful
had owned colorful dress, much nicer than the old one each mother. But the little girl never took
it with him.

Since the latter finally took a heart, and asked one day it will quite fervently they It would take
yet.

But the new mother struck off her round, saying, "You are probably not very wise! What will
people think well if I see myself with you leave? You are quite bumpy. Hunchback children never
walk, that always remain at home. "

Then the little girl was very quiet, and soon leave the new mother's house, set it down on
a chair and looked at herself in the mirror, and honestly, it was bumpy, very hunchback! So she
sat down again on his window sill and looked down the street, and thought to his good old mother,
who had taken it every day. Then she thought again his hump:

"What is just in there?" She said to herself, "there must be something in such a hump in it."

And the summer went, and when the winter came, the little girl was still paler, and so weak that
it became no longer could sit on the windowsill, but always had to lie in bed. And when the
snowdrops it's first green Spitzchen from the earth was stretched out, one night the good
old mother to him and told him, golden as and wonderful it looked
in the sky.

The next morning the little girl dead

! "Do not cry, man," said the new mother! "It is for the poor child is the best way And the Man
made no reply, but nodded his head.

And when the little girl was buried, an angel with big white swan wings came from Sky flew down
and sat down beside the grave and tapped it as if it were a door.

Soon the little girl came out from the grave, and the angel told him he had come to bring it
to his mother in the sky. As the little girl asked timidly whether because hunchbacked children
in the sky came.

It could be that not even imagine, because It would be so nice and elegant but in heaven.

However, the angel replied: "You dear, good child, you're not even bumpy," and! touched his
back with his white hand.

  There fell from the ugly old boss as a large hollow shell.

And what was it?

Two beautiful, white angel wings! It stretched out as if it had always been able to fly had,
and flew with the angels up through the sparkling sunshine in the blue sky. On the highest place
in heaven but his good old mother sat and spread his arms contrary. It flew straight into her
lap.

(On 25 December 1872)

Solitary sparrow

It is a gray bird with sharp eyes and sharp beak, in natural history
the people of the lonely sparrow is called, and the belligerent, despite
his being a host of singing and melody carries within itself.

He did it gladly, if he is irritated, precisely the Challenge with which he presents with pleasure,
he proposes his bravest tones and boldest statement on. If you want him but get to know better
and all, we must in a trap set, listen to him. Furthermore, noise, especially the strange compound
World noise, which resonates in the balance after rattling all the joys and sufferings of the
creature encourages him, makes him talkative. Then he miraculously pulls strings sound from
his throat, measures the extent of his voice was made to all degrees of strength of the clay
trying, in whispers, the swelling, in passing, and while he is intoxicated with his own song,
seems it to compete with itself. The world that separates him from his cage, flowers in his Tracks
on.

The gray bird that we painted on the wall drives, even in human society are Beings. We need him
not to call, it calls him now, any self: the bachelor, the bachelor. We do not, of course, the
bachelor, who, knowing only itself to Egoists are petrified, even those bachelors who, as a true
family destroyer, in a foreign nest and put on to a warm fire, the other one was set on fire.
The Bachelors who we think are rather those honest people who, by misadventure clumsiness
or isolated, the determination of the people have only one side can meet and feel that half-measures
for life than a deficiency. To put it short, her life is missing the woman, the child, whether
they admit it now or in unguarded moments, only to themselves acknowledge. No wonder, then, that
the great general family celebrations, the annual run brings with it, for they are the worst days. Especially
at Christmas, when the green Forest grows into the house and the
large children's eyes light up even brighter than the candles on the
nodding down pine branches, will hurt people that abandoned around
the mind, and they feel it more than ever that they, on such occasions
when even the maid, a beam the general happiness is, are really at
the door.

And no one should try it, to console a bachelor on such a day. The true bachelor will not comforted be,
he wants to have one unhappy, even the enjoyment of his misfortune. When he realizes that The Christmas
tree is lit - the light bites him in the eye - he steals the Along streets and disappears in a house
whose doors down from a pine branch, the Temporary greets. It is a wine bar.

The disgruntled world refugee sits in a corner, from where it overlooks the bar. The room is empty
and is still empty because it is brightly lit. The wall clock oscillates sharp and precise, as
the conscience of the time, only sometimes they seem to keep in mind, But the pendulum brought out
further blow following is an accelerated, and equilibrium restored. The stove warms the lonely
guest at soothing. A bottle of wine! Thoughtful He empties the first glass, the second faster. The
pub table captures his look, where to Top the bright shining wine cooler, some in straight lights,
the other with the whole Surface, the eye glides to some cut-crystal glasses down, the light brightly
colored and break so restless, as if they had something to say. A glass and another glass! While the
silent drinker the counter, can not from the eye, but without the brilliance of the sparkling
Harness more exercise, he hears the distant rolling of a carriage, which his ear for always
in the air, weaving the sound that you can call the world sound, opens. He listens deeper
and deeper into this sound, he will guess it in its individual components, . Recognize Gradually,
sounds seem to detach from the chaos, a note, two notes Three - a trio of tuned together by
well-known voices. The first note comes from a living mouth, he sounds so warm, so deep, so
the heart speaking, and behold, appears they themselves, the mother, as he knew in his youth. It
takes lifts him by the hand, him in his arms, kisses him. Then she carries him to a small bed, in which
a little girl is rosy, laughing. It is his sister, the second sound, which he belongs. Now it
embraces an atmosphere that he felt not long: a cozy Heat radiation, a humanized air - the
atmosphere of the family. He stands in front of the Christmas tree; He pulls out red eggs
under the bed, and he considers the birch on the mirror secret-respect. He heard the father
alternately friendly and strong - he sees let him go because his father died young. Then the
happy hours and days with his Sister, this unreserved communication, this innocent tenderness,
this love without In addition to thoughts - yes, thinks the silent drinker, who empties a glass
of whom the sky loves, he is a sister ... And the third voice, the highest of the triad? The solitary
guest gazes thoughtfully into his wine glass. As incense, it rises, and he believes in the church
to be. A marriage ceremony is performed, but the girl, at the lovely shape his eye is, goes
a stranger's hand. This "yes" from beloved lips, how did It hurt, it still hurts like! A word
at the wrong time, like mine, they alienated me! And then he drank a glass, sighed and ran
his hand across his forehead. The beautiful trio began to subside, down from the highest tone in
which only the fundamental, came from the mother, held on longer, until he dissolved into the general
hum, that was swallowed up by the wheels of a passing moving car. Again shone the wine cooler
over the bar, and the crystal glasses caught the light and broke
it in colorful Rays.

On the clock, which raised his arm noisy, clock struck 1.

Crept through the silent deserted streets revelers home. Once in his room, presented he light
from a large cage, in which sat a gray bird, a lonely sparrow. He provoked him with their fingers,
and the lively animal flew at him with bright whistle. "Poor Guy, "he shouted to the bird,"
where you have your mate? "And instead of answering, began the sparrow to sing so beautiful in that
the questioner was spellbound and listened. "You're right, good Animal love who can not sing,
must. And today I have not sung on my way internally, though dully? And besides, I did much better
than you, apart from the many starving girl's heart, which should
be anything but love.

  I am a man, and the man heard the whole world.

"

(On December 25, 1883)

Old girl

As usual, when the holiday season approaches, I again Tannenduft fed up, and this pleasant habit
inherited from her childhood, which I have now in every sense would call green fills me communicative,
as far as a man of nature as short tailed may make to such claim generous description. But the
child is ashamed of in it, who would want to - we do not have the Philistines, the precocious of
the height of their wisdom Look down when our children grow into the house of the forest and
in every fir resin Wedel stirs and meets the warm room with fragrance. This is the real aroma
of bliss the atmosphere of the children's heaven. The smell of happiness and brings it, it
would appear now in the form of sparkling diamonds and gilded walnuts. I hear it again in the walls
trickle, as if a thousand busy minds its being exaggerated, the door handle crack silent, without
anyone enters the room, and a rustle and whisper goes through the house, which you want to write
not only shaken the tinsel. The family ghost walk order, especially since the hundredfold dividing
spirit of the mother who knows every need and to maintain, reared from the edge of the petticoat
too long until the salvation of the Gentiles small nature, of her arms, sprang. Between when
a remote door opens, resounds fresh Children's laughter, or a gentle face continued scolded curious
looks in the room start. But the teenage girls already are inspired by the spirit of the mother,
for while equipped to consider the good itself, every wish, the family tree, they preen for
poor children a small fir tree, on whose head they put a naked little boy, which looks very
healthy, and goes from the child's community in the legend that it had redeemed the world.
And the legend is right.

Children, large and small - if they grew up, it means they are geniuses - save the world every
day still, and at the present day, little ones, is our only salvation Reflection of yours.
The little Saviour us look surprised her large eyes of children for they know not the evil world
and play with a smile with a passion flower.

But if I grateful to the children visiting me sit and sun on their salvation, we must I remember
every time the stepchildren of happiness, which only the sky and dreary gray days Nights brings.
I will not speak of the poor, because what is poor and rich? We are never rich enough to reach
the high flight of our desires, and often so poor that we do not could catch a ray of sunshine
every day of joy. I want from being truly poor Who speak so often, says if anything, sadly to
one side, sad and ignored, if not despised. This Cinderella of civil society, on Christmas
Day, as the feast of the children, twice the Cinderella, are - the
word will hardly out of the pen - the old girl.

Old girl! Old girl! There is such a contradiction between these two words, that they themselves
are surprised so hard to stand side by side. Girls - A creature full of promise, a thriving guide to life,
enjoyment and happiness! And old - The abyss Unwünschenswerten everything!

So cruel but this term may be, it is not cruel as the fate of the so designated. An old girl to
be called, who have a fate to which their own debt only in rare cases, a significant proportion.
It is mostly a old girl how to be a genius without merit or guilt, but with the cut, except
that the genius, because it is the Divine, of course, all the credit of, the old girl but because
it carries a fateful accident, everything will be counted as a liability. There are in the strictest
sense necessarily old girl: natural and social conditions do it this
way: what is necessary, just that mocked and laughed at me to see
is the most merciless and intolerable. An old girl asks, if not sympathy,
but Compassionately. Again, I have been told that true marriage love derives
its existence from innocence, because it derives its existence from the conjunction of good
and truth, and the two minds of husband and wife are in that conjunction, and when that conjunction
descends it presents the appearance of marriage love; for consorts are in mutual love, as their
minds are. This is why in marriage love there is a playfulness like that of childhood and like
that of innocence.{2}

  {Footnote 1} Every good of love and truth of faith, to be good
  and true must have innocence in it (n. 2526, 2780, 3111, 3994,
  6013, 7840, 9262, 10134). Innocence is the essential of good
  and truth (n. 2780, 7840). No one is admitted into heaven
  unless he possesses something of innocence (4797).

  {Footnote 2} True marriage love is innocence (n. 2736).
  Marriage love consists in willing what the other wills, thus
  mutually and reciprocally (n. 2731). They who are in marriage
  love dwell together in the inmosts of life (n. 2732). There is
  a union of the two minds, and thus from love they are a one (n.
  10168, 10169). True marriage love derives its origin and
  essence from the marriage of good and truth (n. 2728, 2729).
  About angelic spirits who have a perception from the idea of
  the conjunction of good and truth whether anything of marriage
  exists (n. 10756). Marriage love is wholly like the conjunction
  of good and truth (n. 1904, 2173, 2508, 2729, 3103, 3132, 3155,
  3179, 3180, 4358, 5807, 5835, 9206, 9207, 9495, 9637).
  Therefore in the Word "marriage" means the marriage of good and
  truth, such as there is in heaven and such as there will be in
  the church (n. 3132, 4434, 4835).

282. Because innocence With the angels of heaven is the very being [esse] of good, it is evident
that the Divine good that goes forth from the Lord is innocence itself, for it is that good
that flows into angels, and affects their inmosts, and arranges and fits them for receiving
all the good of heaven. It is the same with children, whose interiors are not only formed by
means of innocence flowing through them from the Lord, but also are continually being fitted
and arranged for receiving the good of heavenly love, since the good of innocence acts from
the inmost; for that good, as has been said, is the being [esse] of all good. From all this
it can be seen that all innocence is from the Lord. For this reason the Lord is called in the
Word a "lamb," a lamb signifying innocence.{1} Because innocence is the inmost in all the good
of heaven, it so affects minds that when it is felt by any one-as when an angel of the inmost
heaven approaches-he seems to himself to be no longer his own master and is moved and as it
were carried away by such a delight that no delight of the world seems to be anything in comparison
with it. This I say from having perceived it.

  {Footnote 1} In the Word a "lamb" signifies innocence and its
  good. (n. 3994, 10132).

283. Everyone who is in the good of innocence is affected by innocence, and is affected to
the extent that he is in that good; but those who are not in the good of innocence are not
affected by innocence. For this reason all who are in hell are wholly antagonistic to innocence;
they do not know what it is; their antagonism is such that so far as any one is innocent they
burn to do him mischief; therefore they cannot bear to see little children; and as soon as
they see them they are inflamed with a cruel desire to do them harm. From this it is clear
that what is man's own, and therefore the love of self, is antagonistic to innocence; for all
who are in hell are in what is their own, and therefore in the love of self.{1}

  {Footnote 1} What is man's own is loving self more than God,
  and the world more than heaven, and making one's neighbor of no
  account as compared with oneself; thus it is the love of self
  and of the world (n. 694, 731, 4317, 5660). The evil are wholly
  antagonistic to innocence, even to the extent that they cannot
  endure its presence (n. 2126).

284. XXXII. THE STATE OF PEACE IN HEAVEN.

Only those that have experienced the peace of heaven can have any perception of the peace in
which the angels are. As man is unable, as long as he is in the body, to receive the peace
of heaven, so he can have no perception of it, because his perception is confined to what is
natural. To perceive it he must be able, in respect to thought, to be raised up and withdrawn
from the body and kept in the spirit, and at the same time be with angels. In this way has
the peace of heaven been perceived by me; and for this reason I am able to describe it, yet
not in words as that peace is in itself, because human words are inadequate, but only as it
is in comparison with that rest of mind that those enjoy who are content in God.

285. There are two inmost things of heaven, namely, innocence and peace. These are said to
be inmost things because they proceed directly from the Lord. From innocence comes every good
of heaven, and from peace every delight of good. Every good has its delight; and both good
and delight spring from love, for whatever is loved is called good, and is also perceived as
delightful. From this it follows that these two inmost things, innocence and peace, go forth
from the Lord's Divine love and move the angels from what is inmost. That innocence is the
inmost of good may be seen in the preceding chapter, where the state of innocence of the angels
of heaven is described. That peace is the inmost of delight from the good of innocence shall
now be explained.

286. The origin of peace shall be first considered. Divine peace is in the Lord; it springs
from the union of the Divine Itself and the Divine Human in Him. The Divine of peace in heaven
is from the Lord, springing from His conjunction with the angels of heaven, and in particular
from the conjunction of good and truth in each angel. These are the origins of peace. From
this it can be seen that peace in the heavens is the Divine inmostly affecting with blessedness
everything good therefrom, and from this is every joy of heaven; also that it is in its essence
the Divine joy of the Lord's Divine love, resulting from His conjunction with heaven and with
everyone there. This joy, felt by the Lord in angels and by angels from the Lord, is peace.
By derivation from this the angels have everything that is blessed, delightful, and happy,
or that which is called heavenly joy.{1}

  {Footnote 1} By peace in the highest sense the Lord is meant,
  because peace is from Him, and in the internal sense heaven is
  meant, because those are in a state of peace (n. 3780, 4681).
  Peace in the heavens is the Divine inmostly affecting with
  blessedness everything good and true there, and this peace is
  incomprehensible to man (n. 92, 3780, 5662, 8455, 8665). Divine
  peace is in good, but not in truth apart from good (n. 8722).

287. 9:6, 7).

     These things have I spoken unto you that in Me ye may have
     peace (John 16:33).

     Jehovah lift up His countenance upon thee and give thee
     peace (Num. 6:26).

     The angels of peace weep bitterly, the highways are wasted
     (Isa. 33:7, 8).

     The work of righteousness shall be peace; and My people
     shall dwell in a habitation of peace (Isa. 32:17, 18).

[2] That it is Divine and heavenly peace that is meant in the Word by "peace" can be seen also
from other passages where it is mentioned (As Isa. 52:7; 54:10; 59:8; Jer. 16:5; 25:37; 29:11;
Hag. 2:9; Zech.

And when the Lord Himself appeared to the apostles, He said

     Peace be with you (John 20:19, 21, 26).

[3] A state of peace is also meant in the Word where it is said that:

     Jehovah smelled an odor of rest (as Exod. 29:18, 25, 41;
     Lev. 1:9, 13, 17; 2:2, 9; 6:8, 14; 23:12, 13, 18; Num,
     15:3, 7, 13; 28:6, 8, 13; 29:2, 6, 8, 13, 36).

"Odor of rest" in the heavenly sense signifies a perception of peace.{1} As peace signifies
the union of the Divine Itself and the Divine Human in the Lord, also the conjunction of the
Lord with heaven and with the church, and with all who are in heaven, and with all in the church
who receive Him, so the Sabbath was instituted as a reminder of these things, its name meaning
rest or peace, and was the most holy representative of the church. For the same reason the
Lord called Himself "the Lord of the Sabbath" (Matt. 12:8; Mark 2:27, 28; Luke 6:5).{2}

  {Footnote 1} In the word an "odor" signifies the perception of
  agreeableness or disagreeableness, according to the quality of
  the love and faith of which it is predicated (n. 3577, 4626,
  4628, 4748, 5621, 10292). An "odor of rest," in reference to
  Jehovah, means a perception of peace (n. 925, 10054). This is
  why frankincense, incense, and odors in oils and ointments,
  became representative (n. 925, 4748, 5621, 10177).

  {Footnote 2} The "Sabbath" signifies in the highest sense the
  union of the Divine Itself and the Divine Human in the Lord; in
  the internal sense the conjunction of the Divine Human of the
  Lord with heaven and with the church; in general, the
  conjunction of good and truth, thus the heavenly marriage (n.
  8495, 10356, 10730). Therefore "rest on the Sabbath day"
  signified the state of that union, because then the Lord had
  rest, and thereby there is peace and salvation in the heavens
  and on the earth; and in a relative sense it signified the
  conjunction of the Lord with man, because man then has peace
  and salvation (n. 8494, 8510, 10360, 10367, 10370, 10374,
  10668, 10730).

288. Because the peace of heaven is the Divine inmostly affecting with blessedness the veriest
good in angels, it can be clearly perceived by them only in the delight of their hearts when
they are in the good of their life, in the pleasure with which they hear truth that agrees
with their good, and in gladness of mind when they perceive the conjunction of good and truth.
From this it flows into all the acts and thoughts of their life, and there presents itself
as joy, even in outward appearance. [2] But peace in the heavens differs in quality and quantity
in agreement with the innocence of those who are there; since innocence and peace walk hand
in hand; for every good of heaven, as said above, is from innocence, and every delight of that
good is from peace. Evidently, then, the same that has been said in the foregoing chapter about
the state of innocence in the heavens may be said here of the state of peace there, since innocence
and peace are conjoined like good and its delight; for good is felt in its delight, and delight
is known from its good. This being so, it is evident that angels of the inmost or third heaven
are in the third or inmost degree of peace, because they are in the third or inmost degree
of innocence; and that angels of the lower heavens are in a less degree of peace, because they
are in a less degree of innocence (see above n. 280). [3] That innocence and peace go together
like good and its delight can be seen in little children, who are in peace because they are
in innocence, and because they are in peace are in their whole nature full of play. Yet the
peace of little children is external peace; while internal peace, like internal innocence,
is possible only in wisdom, and for this reason only in the conjunction of good and truth,
since wisdom is from that conjunction. Heavenly or angelic peace is also possible in men who
are in wisdom from the conjunction of good and truth, and who in consequence have a sense of
content in God; nevertheless, while they live in the world this peace lies hidden in their
interiors, but it is revealed when they leave the body and enter heaven, for their interiors
are then opened.

289. As the Divine peace springs from the conjunction of the Lord with heaven, and specially
from the conjunction of good and truth in each angel, so when the angels are in a state of
love they are in a state of peace; for then good and truth are conjoined in them. (That the
states of angels undergo successive changes may be seen above, n. 154-160.) The like is true
also of a man who is being regenerated. As soon as good and truth come to be conjoined in him,
which takes place especially after temptations, he comes into a state of delight from heavenly
peace.{1} This peace may be likened to morning or dawn in spring time, when, the night being
passed, with the rising of the sun all things of the earth begin to live anew, the fragrance
of growing vegetation is spread abroad with the dew that descends from heaven, and the mild
vernal temperature gives fertility to the ground and imparts pleasure to the minds of men,
and this because morning or dawn in the time of spring corresponds to the state of peace of
angels in heaven (see n. 155).{2}

  {Footnote 1} The conjunction of good and truth in a man who is
  being regenerated is effected in a state of peace (n. 3696,
  8517).

  {Footnote 2} The state of peace in the heavens is like a state
  of dawn or springtime on the earth (n. 1726, 2780, 5662).

290. I have talked with the angels about peace, saying that what is called peace in the world
is when wars and hostilities cease between kingdoms, and when enmities or hostilities cease
among men; also that internal peace is believed to consist in rest of mind when cares are removed,
especially in tranquility and enjoyment from success in affairs. But the angels said that rest
of mind and tranquility and enjoyment from the removal of cares and success in affairs seem
to be constituents of peace, but are so only with those who are in heavenly good, for only
in that good is peace possible. For peace flows in from the Lord into the inmost of such, and
from their inmost descends and flows down into the lower faculties, producing a sense of rest
in the mind, tranquility of disposition, and joy therefrom. But to those who are in evil peace
is impossible.{1} There is an appearance of rest, tranquility, and delight when things succeed
according to their wishes; but it is external peace and not at all internal, for inwardly they
burn with enmity, hatred, revenge, cruelty, and many evil lusts, into which their disposition
is carried whenever any one is seen to be unfavorable to them, and which burst forth when they
are not restrained by fear. Consequently the delight of such dwells in insanity, while the
delight of those who are in good dwells in wisdom. 

When she then up to the entrance of the waterway between the islands Chonas had been brought, called
them Robur, the rope can shoot what they as also did their savior blessing, and the "Albatross"
headed back out to sea.

But decided he had good qualities, this Aeronef that in this way in the wide Ocean lost sailors
could help him. Which ever so perfected balloon would have been able, he imitate? Among them also
had Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans the recognition, although they were more in the mood, the truth
of the whole incident to .

Deny

The sea was always excited and there were other troubling signs. The barometer decreased even
by a few millimeters, and then roared very violent gusts, therefore, that in the helicopter-sized
machines of the "Albatros" a loud whistle and this caused noticeable were staying. Under such
circumstances, a sailing vessel would have been the topsail twice and the Jib must reefer once. Everything
pointed out that the wind turn to the northwest am. The glass tube of the storm began to tarnish
the worrying. A clock in the morning became the wind an unusual intensity. Although the same
was Aeronef from scratch was able its propeller drive him away still,
so that it approximately four to five miles in put the hour back.

More one could not ask him.

Very definitely now is a cyclone approaching, what occurs in these latitudes are very rare. Whether
we choose to Hurracan in the Atlantic, typhoon in the China seas, Samum in the Sahara Tornado
and called on the West Coast, it is always a hurricane, the great dangers brings. Yes, the risk
to any vehicle that is seized by its rotating movement, the toward
the center increases and only one site can be quiet, the innermost
core of this Maelstrom of air.

Robur knew it, he also knew that it was advisable to escape a cyclone,
as he made the sphere of his attraction to higher layers of air rising.

Previously he had always able. But it was not an hour, maybe a minute more to lose.

In fact, the violence of the storm grew rapidly.

The waves at their crests torn wore an off-white dust out of the sea.

It was also to recognize that the Cyclon in the progress at breakneck
speed approaching the polar regions had.

"Up! Ordered Robur.

- Up "repeated Tom Turner.

The Aeronef was bestowed the ultimate buoyancy and he got up in an oblique direction, when he walks
up an inclined plane, which fell to the southwest.

As the barometer fell even further - the mercury fell rapidly at eight,
then at twelve Millimeters.

Suddenly heard the upward movement of the "albatross" in full.

What caused this stop? Apparently it was the pressure of the air due to a very strong current,
to the top-down took place and put down the resistance of his life time.

When a boat goes against a current, creates its screw the less effective Work, the faster flowing
through the water flowing between its wings.

Then there is He returned and can go so far as to back with the flow. was in this position now the
"Albatros".

Robur was his thing but that's not on. With his surprising similarities working screws were put in
the fastest possible turn, but irresistible attracted by the cyclone, the apparatus could not
escape him. During short breastfeeding increased it something in the air. Then it moved to
the heavier pressure's down, and New He sank like a ship about to
set.

And could you be lost in the sea air call in the middle of a night, which the blinding lights of
the "Albatros" only a small extent interrupted?

If the force of the cyclone are increased, was the "Albatros" surely soon to steerable straw was
carried away by the vortices, which uprooted trees, covering roofs
and often All walls topple.

Robur and Tom were able to get only by signs. Clinging to the railing, Uncle Prudent and Phil
are asked Evans if not enter it for the horrible Meteor and Aeronef with its inventor, the
inventor and the whole mystery of the invention would destroy it.

As it is now the "Albatros" failed to escape in this direction lothrechter Cyclon, it was only
one way out, the comparatively quieter visit the center of it, where he was more master of his
maneuvers. Certainly, but to get down to that, he had to the circulating currents That overcome
him at their peripheries with pulled away.

Did he really have enough mechanical Forces to snatch them?

Suddenly now the clouds burst over him, the vapors condensed into a horrific Downpour.

It was morning by two clock. He was at twelve millimeters and abschwankende barometer up fallen
to 709, although the amount, which occupied the Aeronef above the
sea, in Account should be drawn.

Strangely, this cyclone had formed outside the zones, which he runs through otherwise, ie between
30 Degrees north and 27 Degrees south latitude. Perhaps this explains in this way, why this
hurricane very soon into an ordinary, fairly straight running passed.

But what kind of storm raged for it! The blast of Connecticut 22 March 1882 could be compared to
him about, the speed of hundred and sixteen feet in the second, ie more than a hundred miles
an hour, reached.

It was therefore now no alternative but to escape to the rear, like a ship before the Forward,
or to be carried away by this flow to the contrary by the "Albatros" not overcome, and from which
he could not free himself.

But when he forced upon him this Street followed, he fled away to the south and was wound up
in the polar regions, which Robur had wanted to avoid. But he was no longer master of his
movements, he had to , Go to where the hurricane was wearing it.

Tom Turner was still pending faithfully at the helm. It required all his skill, not always to
be thrown from one board to another.

With the first hours of the day - when the dim light, the horizon of the dyed could call it
that - the "albatross" of Cape Horn her fifteen degrees of latitude
had behind left, ie, about four hundred miles, and now he crossed
the Arctic Circle.

Here the night is still in the month of July nineteen hours, the cold sun disk appears only faintly
glowing on the horizon, almost immediately disappearing again.

At the poles themselves this night extended to one hundred seventy-nine full days. Everything pointed
to it out that the "Albatros" as in an abyss had to rush into it.

That day would have an observation that if a would have been possible for such, the southern Width
of 66 degrees 40 minutes revealed. The aeronaut was fourteen so now one hundred miles from
the Antarctic Pole.

Irresistibly drawn to this otherwise inaccessible point of the globe,
"consumed" its speed so to speak, his whole weight, even though due
to the flattening the earth at the pole here was even greater.

His buoyancy, the screws could surely acquiesce. Soon the violence of the storm so vast that Robur
the rotation number the propeller decided to reducible to a minimum to protect them from serious
damage to and protect it a little at the lowest possible own speed through the contribute to the
helm.

Amidst these dangers, the engineer imparted his orders with great coolness, and the crew obeyed
him, as if the soul of the chief lived in it.

Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans had the top, where they stay the way
without any difficulty could not leave for a moment.

The air provided yes no or very little resistance. The Aeronef was just in the same position as
any aerostat, which deals with the fluid, in which he completely immersed, move forward.

The south polar region consists of the usual indication for an area of ​​four and a half million
(English) square miles, but is not known whether the same is a continent, an archipelago or just
a sea contains, for the ice even during the long summer time does not melt comes. It is known
however that the South Pole is colder than the North Pole, a phenomenon which the position
of the Earth in its orbit during the winter of the Antarctic region is derived.

During the day, entered no indication that the storm will decrease. The "Albatross" came under the
75th Degrees west longitude to the Polar Regions. Who could have known, under which Meridian again,
he should step out of the same?

The more he went down to the south, the more reduced the length of day. Inland had recently he found
in the ongoing night that only by moonlight or by the weak Lights of the southern lights is illuminated.
Now, however, was new moon, and the Robur's companions ran Risk of seeing nothing at all of
those parts, to uncover the mystery of man not yet has succeeded.

Most likely was the "Albatros" near the Arctic Circle on individual already known Points of time,
so in the west of the Graham Land, which has Biscoe discovered in 1832, and the Louis-Philippe
Land, the Dumont d'Urville as outermost border of the Unknown Continent Discovered in 1838.

On board is not particularly suffered from the cold which was not
as bad as it actually had to fear.

The hurricane seemed to form a kind of gulf stream of air, a certain amount Heat carried with
him.

How regrettable it was that this whole area was in darkness! Purpose is more, that even at full
moon, each observation was very limited, as covered in this season
a huge snow and a thick ice sheet the whole surface of the polar region.

We observed then not even those "blink" of the ice sheets, the whitish light, which reflect
on the dark horizon can not.

How could someone in these circumstances to recognize the shape of countries, the expansion
of the oceans or the distribution of islands able? How could acquaint himself with the hydrographic
network in the country, or even accommodate the orographic arrangement,
as now all the hills, mountains and all the icebergs and melted the
ice-pack to a single mass?

Shortly before midnight, a lighted Südpolarlicht
once the deep darkness.

With his silver Foothills, reaching far beyond its rays, formed the shape of a huge meteor that
Fan that took up about half of the sky. The last electrical Effluvien same lost at the southern
cross, the four stars were burning in the Zenith.

This phenomenon was truly unparalleled magnificence and their brightness was sufficient, an
overview granted to them in boundless white cloaked region.

It goes without saying that the compass in this, the south magnetic pole located so close Areas
appeared completely disrupted and the gathered information for absolutely nothing could give.
The dip of the needle was such an important but sometimes that Robur
should have known, about this magnetic pole, which is just about in
the Meridian-eight search is to be got over.

And later, against a clock in the morning, he called for observation
of the angle which the needle with the vertical, made loud:

"Now
the South Pole is under our feet!"

Well we saw a very white area, but nothing betrayed what they carry in their ice sheet liked.

The
Südpolarlicht went out soon after, and that ideal spot in which all meridians Cross is still to discover
the first place.

Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans had the intention of the Aeronef and all he wore, in the mysterious
wilderness to bury, so now was the best opportunity to do so. If they but did not, it was because
they lacked the necessary to blasting machine.

Meanwhile, the storm raged on with such fury that the "Albatros",
when on his taken through a mountain, would it necessarily would be
shattered as well as a ship thrown on a rocky coast.

Instantly he could in fact move as little horizontal, as Mr. was to be on and off.

Individual peaks rise well known, but also in the Antarctic areas.

Every moment was a possible collision which would have destroyed the whole apparatus must bring
about.

Such a catastrophe seemed to fear more so than the wind, in accordance
with the Meridian 0 decreased more, more capsized east.

Even were also, about a hundred kilometers from "Albatross" from two luminous points.

These were the two volcanoes, which to the vast areas of the Ross, Erebus and Terror Mountain belong.

If
the "albatross" in the same flames burn a giant butterfly?

It was an hour full of terrible fear, of one of the volcanoes of Erebus
seemed neat the Aeronef, who could not release from the bed of the
Vulcans for their chance ... His tufts of flame grew rapidly, a fire
power blocked the way that the air well enlightened.

The board now clearly visible shapes took half devilish appearance at. All expected motionless,
without a cry, without batting with the muscle, the horrific Minute of this blast furnace would
wrap it in its flames.

The hurricane, however, who fortriß the "Albatross" with him, saved him from this terrible
Disaster.

The depressed by the storm flames of Erebus gave him the dangerous Way, and amid a hail of lava,
which by the centrifugal movement the lift screws fortunately were ejected, he was happy about
this away in full eruption nascent crater.

An hour later covered the horizon, the two colossal flames, which the end the world during the
long polar night shine.

At two clock in the morning they came to the island Ballery namely at the edge of the coast of
the discovery over, without recognizing this, however, since they, too, with the Polar regions by
solid Ice was chained.

The withdrawal from the Arctic circle, which the "Albatross" in the seventy-five Meridian cut
through, the storm carried him across the ice masses and the icebergs
on which he threatened to smash a hundred times.

He was just not in the hands of his tax man but only in the hands
of God, and God is the best pilot.

The Aeronef again followed the meridian of Paris, with the under which he the Antarctic Enter the world,
forming an angle of 105 degrees.

Finally, 60 other side of the Latitude seemed to weaken the power of the hurricane. His speed
decreased markedly.

The "Albatross" was once again more of his own master. Furthermore, he was now, granted what a
great relief, again in the lighted parts of the globe, and eight clock morning dawned the
day.

After Robur and his hurricane of Cape Horn had escaped happy, had
it now also survived this hurricane.

They were gone all over the South Pole, after They completed within nineteen hours against seven thousand
kilometers, back to the Pacific Ocean has been driven, and since
they had taken to a mile a minute, was their Speed ​​was twice as
great as it the "Albatros" under ordinary circumstances could have
developed.

As a result of disruption of the magnetism of his Compaßnadel in the polar regions, but now knew
Robur can not remember where he was. So he had to wait until the sun sufficiently favorable
Conditions seemed to allow a direct observation. Unfortunately, capped dense clouds in the sky
that day and the sun was not visible.

That was all the more distressing because the two driving screws during the storm some Damage
suffered.

Very upset by this accident, Robur was during the day only with greatly
reduced Speed ​​drive on.

As he hovered over the antipodes of Paris, he put only six Miles an hour back, because he
had to be careful not to aggravate the damage. Failed his driving two screws about quite complete
the service, so the position of the Aeronef over the vast Pacific Ocean is a very unfortunate.
The engineer also wondered carry on, whether the necessary repairs
should not be in place to to ensure the continuation of the journey.

On the morning of the 27th July, as a country in the north reported.

It was soon realized that this was an island, but which of the thousands
in the Pacific Ocean are scattered?

Nevertheless, Robur decided to make a stop here, but not on the earth to go myself. In his
view, had to suffice a day to repair the breakdowns, and he then said to go back on the same
evening.

The wind had been - a favorable circumstance for the execution of that project - nearly complete
down. As he should stop now, could the "Albatros" at least not for unknown Areas to be devious.

It
was therefore an anchor is provided with one hundred and fifty feet
long cable of the airship down.

When the Aeronef came to the edge of the island, the anchor caught hold of the first rocks of it
and lay down quickly fixed between two rocks. The cable was stretched under the Effect of buoyancy
and screws tight to the "Albatross" remained motionless, like a ship that was set on the beach.

It was the first time he had since leaving Philadelphia at all in touch with the earth came.

XV.

What things proceed, the description is worth all the trouble.

As the "Albatros" still hovering at sufficiently high air layer, you could see that this Isle
of medium size was. But which probably average the same latitude? Up to meridian line which we had
come?

Was that an island of the Pacific, Austral-Asia (New Holland) and the Indian ocean? This remained
so long uncertain until his cutlery Robur had made.

Although this was now not been able to draw Compaßangaben consulted, but he had reason to believe
that he is finding himself on the Pacific Ocean.

Once only Sun appeared, had to be the circumstances most favorable to an accurate observation.

From
this altitude - about five hundred feet - from which was against fifteen (English) Miles in
diameter, island in the shape of a three-pointed starfish.

  
  Before the southern tip of an island still appeared on the attached
himself a rock maze.

On Beaches betrayed no backward feature of the tides, what's the view Robur with respect to encourage
his present situation seemed, as the tide in the Pacific Ocean almost
equal to zero.

On the north west rose a nearly conical mountain,
the amount to twelve hundred feet estimate was. 

From a native saw
nothing, but perhaps those living at the opposite Shore. In any case,
had the Aeronef if they ever noticed this, they are frightened and
compelled to hide or escape.

The "Albatross" had touched the southeastern
tip of the island. Not far from the same wound its way in limited
bay a river through the rocks. There was also winding valleys with
various species of trees and numerous wild birds, especially partridge
and bustard. If the island was not inhabited, it seemed then that
is at least habitable. Unquestionable Robur had here can go ashore,
and if he did not but that, so that was only because that the very
uneven ground to give it a suitable place for resting the Aeronef
appeared.

Before re-engineering of the upgrade was to make the most
necessary repairs, which He hoped to see completed in the course of
the day. As are in perfectly good condition Floating screws had functionirt
excellent even to the greatest violence of the hurricane, as the latter,
as it turns out that the same work even easier. Moment was only half
of the lifting mechanism in action, but sufficiently far to the lothrecht
the banks fixed rope to get excited.

Instead, the two actual propeller
had suffered, more so than even Robur presupposed. At least had their
blades up again and the gear teeth, by which they obtained the rotation,
will be corrected.

The team worked under the direction Robur's and
Turner's Tom with the front Screw. It appeared the more advantageous
in the event that the "albatross" for whatever Reason could be compelled
to push before full completion of the work to resume transfers and
be achieved even with the propeller alone nöthigenfalls a sufficient
speed could.

Meanwhile, Uncle Prudent and his colleague had to walk
around on the platform before were established on the back deck.

Frycollin
showed remarkable calm now. What is the difference, only a hundred
and fifty to float feet above the ground!

The work was only interrupted
when the collection of the sun above the horizon, first to measure
an hour angle and then the time of its culmination, the meridian line
of the place determine allowed.

As a result of the executed with
great care observation was found as a

Length of 176 ° 17 'west of
Greenwich, Width of 43 ° 37 'south of the equator.

This point on
the map corresponded to the Island and the Chatham islands VIFF which
group usually is known by the name of Brougthon Islands. Interior
  things spring forth and have permanent existence in what is
  outmost in simultaneous order (n. 5897, 6451, 8603, 10099).
  Therefore all interior things are held together in connection
  from a First by means of a Last (n. 9828). Therefore "the First
  and the Last" signify all things and each thing, that is, the
  whole (n. 10044, 10329, 10335). Consequently in outmosts there
  is strength and power (n. 9836).

305. But man has severed this connection with heaven by turning his exteriors away from heaven,
and turning them to the world and to self by means of his love of self and of the world, thereby
so withdrawing himself that he no longer serves as a basis and foundation for heaven; therefore
the Lord has provided a medium to serve in place of this base and foundation for heaven, and
also for the conjunction of heaven with man. This medium is the Word. How the Word serves as
such a medium has been shown in many places in the Arcana Coelestia, all of which may be seen
gathered up in the little work on The White Horse mentioned in the Apocalypse; also in the
Appendix to the New Jerusalem and Its Heavenly Doctrine, from which some notes are here appended.{1}

  {Footnote 1} The Word in the sense of the letter is natural (n.
  8783). For the reason that the natural is the outmost in which
  spiritual and heavenly things, which are interior things,
  terminate and on which they rest, like a house upon its
  foundation (n. 9430, 9433, 9824, 10044, 10436). Because
  the Word is such in the sense of the letter it is the
  containant of the spiritual and heavenly sense (n. 9407). And
  it is adapted both to men and to angels (n. 1769-1772, 1887,
  2143, 2157, 2275, 2333, 2395, 2540, 2541, 2547, 2553, 7381,
  8862, 10322). And it is what makes heaven and earth one (n.
  2310, 2495, 9212, 9216, 9357, 9396, 10375). The conjunction of
  the Lord with man is through the Word, by means of the internal
  sense (n. 10375). There is conjunction by means of all things
  and each particular thing of the Word, and in consequence the
  Word is wonderful above all other writing (n. 10632-10634).
  Since the Word was written the Lord speaks with men by means of
  it (n. 10290). The church, where the Word is and the Lord is
  known by means of it, in relation to those who are out of the
  church where there is no Word and the Lord is unknown is like
  the heart and lungs in man in comparison with the other parts
  of the body, which live from them as from the fountains of
  their life (n. 637, 931, 2054, 2853). Before the Lord the
  universal church on the earth is as a single man (n. 7396,
  9276). Consequently unless there were on this earth a church
  where the Word is, and where the Lord is known by means of it,
  the human race here would perish (n. 468, 637, 931, 4545,
  10452).

306. I have been told from heaven that the most ancient people, because their interiors were
turned heavenwards, had direct revelation, and by this means there was at that time a conjunction
of the Lord with the human race. After their times, however, there was no such direct revelation,
but there was a mediate revelation by means of correspondences, inasmuch as all their Divine
worship then consisted of correspondences, and for this reason the churches of that time were
called representative churches. For it was then known what correspondence is and what representation
is, and that all things on the earth correspond to spiritual things in heaven and in the church,
or what is the same, represent them; and therefore the natural things that constituted the
externals of their worship served them as mediums for thinking spiritually, that is, thinking
with the angels. When the knowledge of correspondences and representations had been blotted
out of remembrance a Word was written, in which all the words and their meanings are correspondences,
and thus contain a spiritual or internal sense, in which are the angels; and in consequence,
when a man reads the Word and perceives it according to the sense of the letter or the outer
sense the angels perceive it according to the internal or spiritual sense; for all the thought
of angels is spiritual while the thought of man is natural. These two kinds of thought appear
diverse; nevertheless they are one because they correspond. Thus it was that when man had separated
himself from heaven and had severed the bond the Lord provided a medium of conjunction of heaven
with man by means of the Word.

307. How heaven is conjoined with man by means of the Word I will illustrate by some passages
from it.

When man reads these words he understands them merely in accordance with the sense of the letter,
namely, that the visible heaven with the earth is to perish, and a new heaven is to come into
existence; and upon the new earth the holy city Jerusalem is to descend, with all its dimensions
as here described. But the angels that are with man understand these things in a wholly different
way, that is, everything that man understands naturally they understand spiritually. [2] By
"the new heaven and the new earth" they understand a new church; by "the city Jerusalem coming
down from God out of heaven" they understand its heavenly doctrine revealed by the Lord; by
"its length, breadth, and height, which are equal," and "twelve thousand furlongs," they understand
all the goods and truths of that doctrine in the complex; by its "wall" they understand the
truths protecting it; by "the measure of the wall, a hundred and forty-four cubits, which is
the measure of a man, that is, of an angel," they understand all those protecting truths in
the complex and their character; by its "twelve gates, which were of pearls," they understand
introductory truths, "pearls" signifying such truths; by "the foundations of the wall, which
were of precious stones," they understand the knowledge on which that doctrine is founded;
by "the gold like unto pure glass," of which the city and its street were made, they understand
the good of love which makes the doctrine and its truths transparent. Thus do the angels perceive
all these things; and therefore not as man perceives them. The natural ideas of man thus pass
into the spiritual ideas with the angels without their knowing anything of the sense of the
letter of the Word, that is, about "a new heaven and a new earth," "a new city Jerusalem,"
its "wall, the foundations of the wall, and its dimensions." And yet the thoughts of angels
make one with the thoughts of man, because they correspond; they make one almost the same as
the words of a speaker make one with the understanding of them by a hearer who attends solely
to the meaning and not to the words. All this shows how heaven is conjoined with man by means
of the Word: [3] Let us take another example from the Word:

     In that day there shall be a highway from Egypt to
     Assyria, and Assyria shall come into Egypt and Egypt into
     Assyria; and the Egyptians shall serve Assyria.

What man thinks when these words are read, and what the angels think, can be seen from the
sense of the letter of the Word and from its internal sense. Man from the sense of the letter
thinks that the Egyptians and Assyrians are to be converted to God and accepted, and are then
to become one with the Israelitish nation; but angels in accordance with the internal sense
think of the man of the spiritual church who is here described in that sense, whose spiritual
is "Israel," whose natural is the "Egyptian," and whose rational, which is the middle, is the
"Assyrian."{1} Nevertheless, these two senses are one because they correspond; and therefore
when the angels thus think spiritually and man naturally they are conjoined almost as body
and soul are; in fact, the internal sense of the Word is its soul and the sense of the letter
is its body. Such is the Word throughout. This shows that it is a medium of conjunction of
heaven with man, and that its literal sense serves as a base and foundation.

  {Footnote 1} In the Word "Egypt" and "Egyptian" signify the
  natural and its knowledge (n. 4967, 5079, 5080, 5095, 5160,
  5460, 5799, 6015, 6147, 6252, 7355, 7648, 9340, 9391).
  "Assyria" signifies the rational (n. 119, 1186). "Israel"
  signifies the spiritual (n. 5414, 5801, 5803, 5806, 5812, 5817,
  5819, 5826, 5833, 5879, 5951, 6426, 6637, 6862, 6868, 7035,
  7062, 7198, 7201, 7215, 7223, 7957, 8234, 8805, 9340).

308. There is also a conjunction of heaven by means of the Word with those who are outside
of the church where there is no Word; for the Lord's church is universal, and is with all who
acknowledge the Divine and live in charity. Moreover, such are taught after death by the angels
and receive Divine truths;{1} on which subject more may be seen below, in the chapter on the
heathen. The universal church on the earth in the sight of the Lord resembles a single man,
just as heaven does (see n. 59-72); but the church where the Word is and where the Lord is
known by means of it is like the heart and lungs in that man. It is known that all the viscera
and members of the entire body draw their life from the heart and lungs through various derivations;
and it is thus that those of the human race live who are outside of the church where the Word
is, and who constitute the members of that man. Again, the conjunction of heaven with those
who are at a distance by means of the Word may be compared to light radiating from a center
all around. The Divine light is in the Word, and there the Lord with heaven is present, and
from that presence those at a distance are in light; but it would be otherwise if there were
no Word. This may be more clearly seen from what has been shown above respecting the form of
heaven in accordance with which all who are in heaven have affiliation and communication. But
while this arcanum may be comprehended by those who are in spiritual light, it cannot be comprehended
by those who are only in natural light; for innumerable things are clearly seen by those who
are in spiritual light that are not seen or are seen obscurely as a single thing by those who
are only in natural light.

  {Footnote 1} The church specifically is where the Word is and
  where the Lord is known by means of it, thus where Divine
  truths from heaven are revealed (n. 3857, 10761). The Lord's
  church is with all in the whole globe who live in good in
  accordance with the principles of their religion (n. 3263,
  6637, 10765). All wherever they are who live in good in
  accordance with the principles of their religion and who
  acknowledge the Divine are accepted of the Lord (n. 2589-2604,
  2861, 2863, 3263, 4190, 4197, 6700, 9256). And besides these
  all children wheresoever they are born (n. 2289-2309, 4792).

309. Unless such a Word had been given on this earth the man of this earth would have been
separated from heaven; and if separated from heaven he would have ceased to be rational, for
the human rational exists by an influx of the light of heaven. Again, the man of this earth
is such that he is not capable of receiving direct revelation and of being taught about Divine
truths by such revelation, as the inhabitants of other earths are, that have been especially
described in another small work. For the man of this earth is more in worldly things, that
is, in externals, than the men of other earths, and it is internal things that are receptive
of revelation; if it were received in external things the truth would not be understood. That
such is the man of this earth is clearly evident from the state of those who are within the
church, which is such that while they know from the Word about heaven, about hell, about the
life after death, still in heart they deny these things; although among them there are some
who have acquired a pre-eminent reputation for learning, and who might for that reason be supposed
to be wiser than others.

310. I have at times talked with angels about the Word, saying that it is despised by some
on account of its simple style; and that nothing whatever is known about its internal sense,
and for this reason it is not believed that so much wisdom lies hid in it. The angels said
that although the style of the Word seems simple in the sense of the letter, it is such that
nothing can ever be compared to it in excellence, since Divine wisdom lies concealed not only
in the meaning as a whole but also in each word; and that in heaven this wisdom shines forth.
They wished to declare that this wisdom is the light of heaven, because it is Divine truth,
for that which shines in heaven is the Divine truth (see n. 132). Again, they said that without
such a Word there would be no light of heaven with the men of our earth, nor would there be
any conjunction of heaven with them; for there is conjunction only so far as the light of heaven
is present with man, and that light is present only so far as Divine truth is revealed to man
by means of the Word. This conjunction by means of the correspondence of the spiritual sense
of the Word with its natural sense is unknown to man, because the man of this earth knows nothing
about the spiritual thought and speech of angels, and how it differs from the natural thought
and speech of men; and until this is known it cannot in the least be known what the internal
sense is, and that such conjunction is therefore possible by means of that sense. They said,
furthermore, that if this sense were known to man, and if man in reading the Word were to think
in accordance with some knowledge of it, he would come into interior wisdom, and would be still
more conjoined with heaven, since by this means he would enter into ideas like the ideas of
the angels.

311. XXXV. HEAVEN AND HELL ARE FROM THE HUMAN RACE.

In the Christian world it is wholly unknown that heaven and hell are from the human race, for
it is believed that in the beginning angels were created and heaven was thus formed; also that
the devil or Satan was an angel of light, but having rebelled he was cast down with his crew,
and thus hell was formed. The angels never cease to wonder at such a belief in the Christian
world, and still more that nothing is really known about heaven, when in fact that is the primary
principle of all doctrine in the church. But since such ignorance prevails they rejoice in
heart that it has pleased the Lord to reveal to mankind at this time many things about heaven
and about hell, thereby dispelling as far as possible the darkness that has been daily increasing
because the church has come to its end. [2] They wish for this reason that I should declare
from their lips that in the entire heaven there is not a single angel who was created such
from the beginning, nor in hell any devil who was created an angel of light and cast down;
but that all, both in heaven and in hell, are from the human race; in heaven those who lived
in the world in heavenly love and belief, in hell those who lived in infernal love and belief,
also that it is hell taken as a whole that is called the Devil and Satan-the name Devil being
given to the hell that is behind, where those are that are called evil genii, and the name
Satan being given to the hell that is in front, where those are that are called evil spirits.{1}
The character of these hells will be described in the following pages. [3] The angels said
that the Christian world had gathered such a belief about those in heaven and those in hell
from some passages in the Word understood according to the mere sense of the letter not illustrated
and explained by genuine doctrine from the Word; although the sense of the letter of the Word
until illuminated by genuine doctrine, draws the mind in different directions, and this begets
ignorance, heresies, and errors.{2}

  {Footnote 1} The hells taken together, or the infernals taken
  together, are called the Devil and Satan (n. 694). Those that
  have been devils in the world become devils after death (n.
  968).

  {Footnote 2} The doctrine of the church must be derived from
  the Word (n. 3464, 5402, 6822, 6832, 10763, 10765). Without
  doctrine the Word is not understood (n. 9025, 9409, 9424, 9430,
  10324, 10431, 10582). True doctrine is a lamp to those who read
  the Word (n. 10400). Genuine doctrine must be from those who
  are enlightened by the Lord (n. 2510, 2516, 2519, 9424, 10105).
  Those who are in the sense of the letter without doctrine come
  into no understanding of Divine truths (n. 9409, 9410, 10582).
  And they are led away into many errors (n. 10431). The
  difference between those who teach and learn from the doctrine
  of the church derived from the Word and those who teach and
  learn from the sense of the letter alone (n. 9025).

312. The man of the church also derives this belief from his believing that no man comes into
heaven or into hell until the time of the final judgment; and about that he has accepted the
opinion that all visible things will perish at that time and new things will come into existence,
and that the soul will then return into its body, and from that union man will again live as
a man. This belief involves the other-that angels were created such from the beginning; for
it is impossible to believe that heaven and hell are from the human race when it is believed
that no man can go there until the end of the world. [2] But that men might be convinced that
this is not true it has been granted me to be in company with angels, and also to talk with
those who are in hell, and this now for some years, sometimes continuously from morning until
evening, and thus be informed about heaven and hell. This has been permitted that the man of
the church may no longer continue in his erroneous belief about the resurrection at the time
of judgment, and about the state of the soul in the meanwhile, also about angels and the devil.
As this belief is a belief in what is false it involves the mind in darkness, and with those
who think about these things from their own intelligence it induces doubt and at length denial,
for they say in heart, "How can so vast a heaven, with so many constellations and with the
sun and moon, be destroyed and dissipated; and how can the stars which are larger than the
earth fall from heaven to the earth; and can bodies eaten up by worms, consumed by corruption,
and scattered to all the winds, be gathered together again to their souls; and where in the
meantime is the soul, and what is it when deprived of the senses it had in the body?" [3] With
many other like things, which being incomprehensible cannot be believed, and which destroy
the belief of many in the life of the soul after death, and their belief in heaven and hell,
and with these other matters pertaining to the faith of the church. That this belief has been
destroyed is evident from its being said, "Who has ever come to us from heaven and told us
that there is a heaven? What is hell? is there any? What is this about man's being tormented
with fire to eternity? What is the day of judgment? has it not been expected in vain for ages?"
with other things that involve a denial of everything. [4] Therefore lest those who think in
this way-as many do who from their worldly wisdom are regarded as erudite and learned-should
any longer confound and mislead the simple in faith and heart, and induce infernal darkness
respecting God and heaven and eternal life, and all else that depends on these, the interiors
of my spirit have been opened by the Lord, and I have thus been permitted to talk with all
after their decease with whom I was ever acquainted in the life of the body-with some for days,
with some for months, and with some for a year, and also with so many others that I should
not exaggerate if I should say a hundred thousand; many of whom were in heaven, and many in
hell. I have also talked with some two days after their decease, and have told them that their
funeral services and obsequies were then being held in preparation for their interment; to
which they replied that it was well to cast aside that which had served them as a body and
for bodily functions in the world; and they wished me to say that they were not dead, but were
living as men the same as before, and had merely migrated from one world into the other, and
were not aware of having lost anything, since they had a body and its senses just as before,
also understanding and will just as before, with thoughts and affections, sensations and desires,
like those they had in the world. 

We Germans do not have the personal feeling of independence, we tend to deliberate dependence.

Let us not confuse independence with lack of discipline, we do not
mix and dependence Loyalty.

A man is to keep breeding and breeding practice, because the cosmos is an order to his idea each
member has to carry and loads to do, and to lead. The breeding pays homage to the idea not
her body, the violence, as we are not free to belong and obey those in power, but trust us orderly,
deliberate control and surrender. From trust comes loyalty, it is the voluntary, persuaded inviolable
gift of trust.

Forced loyalty is a contradiction in terms, may be forced submission, loyalty, the highest
ground Obligation rests on freedom and truth.

This does not mean however, that everyone is at will the bonds Choose: can decide which he wants
to take up, which do not. An existing state, an ordered Society, especially one acting army
puts on bonds, which according to the order the laws are inviolable,
as the highest earthly duty, it can be.

Thus, any question of submission to final law and its practice of discussing withdrawn.

Something else is it that loyalty and commitment form you want and what you do not want, whether
you tend to plunge into self-imposed bond, or to deliberate binding to add, if you tend to
indulge in power, violence and its owner, or the idea to follow their embodiment and their institutions,
whether one belongs to the person or thing, whether it is repaired or whether one is a servant
or who serves.

Especially if you under precautionary prevention and bracketing wants to live or whether you are
willing to take responsibility and to demand.

Certainly, our beautiful heritage contributed to the objectivity that we are never far asked whether,
by what right, in any form, and for what purpose a thing imposed on us Was when she was only
fulfilled properly, that we each inherited dependency ratio acceptance with the single exception too
outspoken foreign domination willingly. But fool we do not: the train to addiction is not an
inheritance of the old Germanic, at the high fidelity of the highest independence drive, defiance
and self-will was, but the unfree, usual service and verängsteten lower classes, which for too long,
especially in middle and eastern parts of the country, the mass of the population was. Even in the
18th Century were Here are the symbols of subservience: Saumkuß and whip, and the nobility called
his tenants the bastard. The comparison of the German semi-Slav with the tribe purer Friesen, Westphalia,
Franconia and Swabia, the variation of the dependent in character and sense of life. Not only the individual,
even a nation requires the nursery.

The heroic and spiritual past a top layer does not always have the effect of a model and may, with
sufficient alienation vice versa, namely distancing act by requiring all the men in honor of its
own.

It seems incomprehensible and it is not that we urge the character of our dependence not so
very aware, and that we are his most visible consequences of our dependence political life,
the military-feudal, bureaucratic, the plutocratic bond the superior and Subordinationswesen
of civic life, the rugged and rightly pointing Verkehrston, the spanning network of regulations
and prohibitions, the preference of the states, zopfigen inequalities and the unfriendliness of official
treatment, the claims of Owners and interested parties feel not so. It missed the comparisons.
Representations Aliens who are used to be also made in the form of hateful and wrong formulation
we refuse to law.

However, our emigrants of the last generation are not returned, certainly not for lack of patriotism
or love of strangers, or of greed. You could find itself no longer in the atmosphere after they realized
by comparing had become.

At a higher intellectual level, the dependence urge, like every human weakness, to certain Virtues
limits. It boasts of our organization, rather, our organizer, punctuality and discipline. You can
count on us for everything. What is commanded is done. What practiced, is expanded. What is ordered is true.
This is good and should remain so. But it is no matter what the cost paid for the last percent
of precision. A single creative idea can take a thousand-fold every disciplined habit. Bondage on
all areas of life does not warrant the high point of precision.

Even when national monopolies, example in the field of militarism, by a hundred-year discipline
of a people could be obtained, it would be arguable to strive for them, but now the war has shown, that
there are no such special benefits.

Even at this higher level is likely to begin overt threats. Feeling of dependence, transferred
to spiritual, means faith in authority, authority overestimation, clinging to tradition, series
of conventional thinking and methods.

In science we agitate the concept of development and the historicism to death. We dare any object
not begin to see eye to evaluate it and realize: we do all over around behind him to know his
past, kindred, circumstances, and analogies lose all innocence, and
have him every time, after it willingly or by force have been logical,
in the end absolutely cheap.

We know everything about everything as to leave. is the official science, next to the interested
parties, our conservative force. The pursuit of any originality, if she is younger than a generation
seems to her offered.

In the administration, we adhere to the tradition. Admitted or not, we always envy the model
of the old Prussians, an agricultural, unmechanisierten Central State to be kind of a big landowner
shaft by the owner with the help of some private offices managed
could.

The movement of the departments in any far-reaching policy question I have described; never
to my knowledge one of the parties, with the exception of Bismarck, alleging they open; we consider
this dependence as well as ordained by God, as the guide, intuition, the atmosphere.

In politics, greater independence of each party is striving programmatically.

In practice, one would be alarmed if they would be granted. Whether a parliamentary ministry could
be determined at all by the people about is questionable. Man would prefer to see taken on the
responsibility as usual, and, if it not bad note to find your name
on the list.

On the dependence of two men's case, the military-feudal and bureaucratic up and squat by the
plutocratic layer that is present through the Access winning the war intensified, there is nothing
further to say.

The strangest dependency needs on a higher level, the society, which in the upper middle class effect.

Military
and civil service under a management and home control. The upscale Bourgeoisie without it will
not. The interior is probably the reason: because the social Model of an aristocracy of general
attitude and way of life was missing and the young rich masses of aufschoß to form a patrician, was demanded
for legitimation. This Need was met, the state, half unconsciously, half-humorous calculating.
In Germany there are estimated as several thousand those titles, ranks and awards. Many were
accessible to the middle class, and you could not blame the state, indeed, we saw many a desired securitization
is that a mild and control the sources of leadership, a stronger political opinion was subject
to the ceremony. The advantage was obvious: Had An average industrialist donated thirty thousand
marks for church buildings and shortly thereafter the dignity of
a Royal Kommerzienrat receive, so it was a satisfaction to him and
his family, that a test was preceded by his personal and business
affairs, and thus to the outside served to prove that the bare material
performance at best the Occasion, not accounting for the reason of
his middle-elevation.

It is questionable whether the prevailing state powers are aware of what an immeasurable influence
attitude the self-elected leadership of the higher dependency grant them citizenship. Among
hundreds of thousands of civil or military beneficiaries there is hardly a Social Democrat,
in the military Relationship was not tolerated before the war outspoken liberalism, the civil
Money he was rare. Considering the effect on attachment and loyalty into consideration, shows
that the derided as a venial weakness and benign title of the German
Addiction one of the most serious political realities means: namely,
the abandonment of an important Part of the bourgeois intellectuals
to political independence.

To search for independence drive, we turn from the middle classes to the organizations of the proletariat,
and find the dependence of addiction in their four most rugged forms: dependence of scientific
dogma, depending on the masses of the leaders, depending on the masses self-created by the atmosphere,
depending on the leader of the masses.

If Christ again and would run against the program of the scribes, he would be in a party meeting
no safer than anywhere else.

All self-reliance and independence has fled into the economy.

There exists they do not, however, of strong character and unflinching conviction, but in the service
of Fight for mine and yours. Bad enough: Independent and proud man, we can be when it worthwhile.
To a million worth sake it to ragged ideals sake it does not pay.

The independence drive of the industry, the only one we have and the only one who bridled should
be connected to an unheard-of training in business policy and dialectical Behavior is becoming
our most serious internal threat. If the Secretary General of the "General German Federation to safeguard
the interests of all branches of the stuffed Bird Industry "(abbreviated: ADV for W. d. I. s.
Z. da VI), dazzling appearance, sonorous form and turned in the stands the importance of the interests
entrusted to him explained and with historical, geographical, ethnographical, commercial, financial,
social, cultural, ethical and universal human evidence confirms, if he then our Ostpolitik passes and showing
that it is not also far from a certain damaging infinitely important branch of his trade, so every
heart is filled with concern. If then, hundreds of thousands of pamphlets, numerous Assembly resolutions,
Chamber of Commerce entries and repeated appeals to MPs warning, so some of his friends, the
statesman recommend to change its overall policy. Finally, since there is no policy that is
not any Interests violated, it must come at the end meaning that only made things to be able to counter
the interested parties are weak, unpopular or sparse, which means
The final limitation of our already so low mobility.

We are interested in based.

We descend from the higher spiritual level to the average down and find less friendly Features of our
urge to addiction.

Human interdependence and impact of authority turns into a complete chain manager and subordinate,
linked by the iron clamp of subordination. The man is not a member of organic community, but he is
determined his values, his self-consciousness, his authority to, through the provision: whom
he commanded, and who has to say something to him. Unconsciously, each relationship turns into
a subordination: the father is the manager of the child, the teacher is the supervisor of the students,
protection of man is the boss of the public, the clerk is the manager
of stamp buyers, the military is the supervisor of the community,
and in the colonies felt, much to the detriment of civilization Thought
that many whites as superior of the natives.

Subordination! This hard word late Latin origin than in other languages German almost never
used, and we have it every day necessary. It by following, subordination, to replace loyalty,
think of anyone, because it means something else and something else will . Mean Even obedience
and docility, words that do not apply to adults have sufficient would not. The meaning, the subordination
awakens in us is limitless Subjugation of a people under the command of another person, and
the symbolism of the honors, confirm this relationship requires unreserved thrust out of the
whole body. It is logical that is spoken in two very different languages, depending on whether one
of bottom to top or from top to bottom is expressed. This is reminiscent humbly, respectfully
liberty to ask most humbly noted to be allowed, one wishes to die, shall at the feet, there
will be rested, ordered, decreed and calls at best. Here is speaking in the third person plural, in
the absence of a fourth, there is often popular, also from the younger to the older, one paternal
You. appear in higher decrees also all the people as a collective subject or subordinate, it is to be
faithful, to the performance of duty and exhorted to obedience.

The continuous chain ratio: superior - subordinate finds a balance in itself: Sharpness against
subordinates its limit in place of caution against the immediate superior; caused serious consequences,
if the effect only after down takes place because of their own superior
failed to reach or is present.

Such Episodes are created from ancient times and occasionally abroad in colonies.

It is understandable that our ruling caste German Subordinationszustand wants and defends for he it serves
to maintain the existing stratification. Since they like to patriotic and use of theological
arguments, it has the effective expression of the God-given dependence invented. Within the
ruling caste, which forms at all in Germany, the only class which overlooks the internal affairs
clear and has external comparisons, is because often talked about the prejudice and local
Subordinationswesen, the Lack of dignity and rulership noted, particularly in its impact on
residents appreciated.

It considers, however, the people for not sufficiently mature, the feudal stratification for which
were essential to allow for a change.

In our circles mean missing the comparisons. One can think of no other state than the one that
everyone who can afford it, commanded, and anyone who would like
to must be commanded.

What one receives from above, you are further down, and yet something unique to it. How should we
come to treat these things as moral issues? They are like that and like to stay that way.

It pains me when I think that our country to the rugged concept of subordination diagnosed, while
countries have far lower level of civilization is exempt from it. Leading and following, there are
indeed everywhere, but it is sufficient, the dependency ratio the objective to have an effect,
should not encroach on human relationship there. Completely embarrassed me, if I have to confess that
I found no other civilized country I, in which there were people who treated others rudely,
and those which treat roughly left.

Our good nature, for the concept of dressing-down for at least a dozen humorous Invented names,
excuse us a little, a little also our lack of form, but there remains enough, what makes you think.

Friends,
take these things lightly! Our reliance damages the human value. We need rulership and dignity.
Has not there been some among you that even the utterances of patriotism before the war could
hear a distasteful connotation? In the happiest Mingled with an aggressive reputation Schnarrton
of subordination. Bismarck said in theoretical Clothing: we have allegiance instead of national feeling
in his body.

We now know that the country our country, our state government, and our loyalty to the king's free
consent and followers of free men?

Shall we descend to the deepest forms of spiritual feeling of dependence? A few general Hints
may suffice. If the male self-esteem goes, the result is not rebellion and rebellion, but passivity.
One has fallen, and many can be comforted himself with that the neighbor is not better, and
that one need not be ashamed before him. The Superiors also have their weaknesses, you clap it,
and you're not larger, they are smaller. Where is applauded and denounced, it is not rebellious.
Only to the Next to rise, since the game would be spoiled. When misfortune of their neighbor
is not one without pity, the first ray of happiness breaks out of envy. Sitting at the table gossip
and envy, so the vulgarity is upon us.

However, if a sudden rise succeed, so show all the vices of the emancipated, because the inside
is prepaid by exemption not for men.

Enough. Of these lower forms, we have not much to fear. Only one thing: Let us use the Envy
fight, he is not far from being a national vice.

we survey the forms of undeveloped sense of independence and of the spoken Dependence on impulse,
then we may say: A mortal sin we are not charged.

We are not Slaves, has named Frederick as once in anger, we are not servants, like that embittered
philosopher claimed.

It is not our business to speak of our virtues; This we know, and that may be enough: Posterity
will have trouble understanding what our People in war has dutifully done and suffered heroically.

But
one thing we do not conceal from us: the need for dependence is one
of the worst Barriers of the inner and outer rise, it is the political
cardinal sin of a people.

For all the promotion, is the dignity of the innermost decision, the
nobility unreserved Alienation and the rulership of the will to advance
their own responsibility.

Dignity, nobility and Ruling class can not rise in deliberate and tolerated dependence.

Certainly sentiment is short of the prescribed path of the spirit, and bodies are follow her.
But both must advance the recovery of will happen, and, unfortunately,
is inhibited by a single weakness of our voluntarischen character.

Would we still, as a heavenly gift, the most perfect bodies of the state fated and cultural life,
it would be in vain. They would sink down to the level of our Attitude and be unrecognizable.
For a nation its goods and institutions can only keep those height at which it will create
on its own is capable of.

I used to describe the attitudes and objectives that we strive toward, now as I you the peaceful
struggle, the beginning perhaps, the end I will not do. It is the struggle for the soul of our
nation, his first objective is dignity, nobility and rulership. There is a German mission on
earth. It is not the mission of militarism, it is not the mission of mechanization and technology,
although these utilities not scorned, she is at least the mission
of world domination.

It is the mission it always was and always will be: the mission of the pure, incorruptible,
steadfast and relentless spirit. This program does not require emancipated
and subordinates, but noble men. It is not our thing, the waiters,
barbers and tailors of London and Newyork to deliver, but as free
men on free soil with the fraternal peoples to talk and act, not the
cheap value, but of the spirit and humanity sake, to offer them what
we have and receive from them what we need.

In your fight do not
count the years. There you will fight the ruling caste, and that is
shame because there are enterprising people, clever, brave and headstrong.
 When they recognize this they receive
the truths of faith, and adore the Lord, but less readily than others.

326. It is a common thing for heathen that have worshiped any god under an image or statue,
or any graven thing to be introduced, when they come into the other life, to certain spirits
in place of their gods or idols, in order that they may rid themselves of their fantasies.
When they have been with these for some days, the fantasies are put away. Also those that have
worshiped men are sometimes introduced to the men they have worshiped, or to others in their
place--as many of the Jews to Abraham, Jacob, Moses, and David-but when they come to see that
they are human the same as others, and that they can give them no help, they become ashamed,
and are carried to their own places in accordance with their lives. Among the heathen in heaven
the Africans are most beloved, for they receive the goods and truths of heaven more readily
than others. They especially wish to be called obedient, but not faithful. They say that as
Christians possess the doctrine of faith they may be called faithful; but not they unless they
accept that doctrine, or as they say, have the ability to accept it.

327. I have talked with some who were in the Ancient Church. That is called the Ancient Church
that was established after the deluge, and extended through many kingdoms, namely, Assyria,
Mesopotamia, Syria, Ethiopia, Arabia, Libya, Egypt, Philistia as far as Tyre and Zidon, and
through the land of Canaan on both sides of the Jordan.{1} The men of this church knew about
the Lord that He was to come, and were imbued with the goods of faith, and yet they fell away
and became idolaters. These spirits were in front towards the left, in a dark place and in
a miserable state. Their speech was like the sound of a pipe of one tone, almost without rational
thought. They said they had been there for many centuries, and that they are sometimes taken
out that they may serve others for certain uses of a low order. From this I was led to think
about many Christians--who are inwardly though not outwardly idolaters, since they are worshipers
of self and of the world, and in heart deny the Lord-what lot awaits such in the other life.

  {Footnote 1} The first and Most Ancient Church on this earth
  was that which is described in the first chapters of Genesis,
  and that church above all others was celestial (n. 607, 895,
  920, 1121-1124, 2896, 4493, 8891, 9942, 10545). What the
  celestial are in heaven (n. 1114-1125). There were various
  churches after the flood which are called ancient churches (n.
  1125-1127, 1327, 10355). What the men of the Ancient Church
  were (n. 609, 895). The ancient churches were representative
  churches (n. 519, 521, 2896). In the Ancient Church there was a
  Word, but it has been lost (n. 2897). The character of the
  Ancient Church when it began to decline (n. 1128). The
  difference between the Most Ancient Church and the Ancient
  Church (n. 597, 607, 640, 641, 765, 784, 895, 4493). The
  statutes, the judgments, and the laws, which were commanded in
  the Jewish Church, were in part like those in the Ancient
  Church (n. 4288, 4449, 10149). The God of the Most Ancient
  Church and of the Ancient Church was the Lord, and He was
  called Jehovah (n. 1343, 6846).

328. That the church of the Lord is spread over all the globe, and is thus universal; and that
all those are in it who have lived in the good of charity in accordance with their religion;
and that the church, where the Word is and by means of it the Lord is known, is in relation
to those who are out of the church like the heart and lungs in man, from which all the viscera
and members of the body have their life, variously according to their forms, positions, and
conjunctions, may be seen above (n. 308).

329. XXXVII. LITTLE CHILDREN IN HEAVEN.

It is a belief of some that only such children as are born within the church go to heaven,
and that those born out of the church do not, and for the reason that the children within the
church are baptized and by baptism are initiated into faith of the church. Such are not aware
that no one receives heaven or faith through baptism; for baptism is merely for a sign and
memorial that man should be regenerated, and that those born within the church can be regenerated
because the Word is there, and in the Word are the Divine truths by means of which regeneration
is effected, and there the Lord who regenerates is known.{1} Let them know therefore that every
child, wherever he is born, whether within the church or outside of it, whether of pious parents
or impious, is received when he dies by the Lord and trained up in heaven, and taught in accordance
with Divine order, and imbued with affections for what is good, and through these with knowledges
of what is true; and afterwards as he is perfected in intelligence and wisdom is introduced
into heaven and becomes an angel. Everyone who thinks from reason can be sure that all are
born for heaven and no one for hell, and if man comes into hell he himself is culpable; but
little children cannot be held culpable.

  {Footnote 1} Baptism signifies regeneration by the Lord by
  means of the truths of faith from the Word (n. 4255, 5120,
  9088, 10239, 10386-10388, 10392). Baptism is a sign that the
  man baptized is of the church in which the Lord, who
  regenerates, is acknowledged, and where the Word is from which
  are the truths of faith, by means of which regeneration is
  effected (n. 10386-10388). Baptism confers neither faith nor
  salvation, but it is a witness that those who are being
  regenerated will receive faith and salvation (n. 10391).

330. When children die they are still children in the other life, having a like infantile mind,
a like innocence in ignorance, and a like tenderness in all things. They are merely in the
rudiments of a capacity to become angels, for children are not angels but become angels. For
everyone passing out of this world enters the other in the same state of life, a little child
in the state of a little child, a boy in the state of a boy, a youth, a man, an old man, in
the state of a youth, a man, or an old man; but subsequently each one's state is changed. The
state of little children surpasses the state of all others in that they are in innocence, and
evil has not yet been rooted in them by actual life; and in innocence all things of heaven
can be implanted, for it is a receptacle of the truth of faith and of the good of love.

331. The state of children in the other life far surpasses their state in the world, for they
are not clothed with an earthly body, but with such a body as the angels have. The earthly
body is in itself gross, and receives its first sensations and first motions not from the inner
or spiritual world, but from the outer or natural world; and in consequence in this world children
must be taught to walk, to guide their motions, and to speak; and even their senses, as seeing
and hearing, must be opened by use. It is not so with children in the other life. As they are
spirits they act at once in accordance with their interiors, walking without practice, and
also talking, but at first from general affections not yet distinguished into ideas of thought;
but they are quickly initiated into these also, for the reason that their exteriors are homogeneous
with their interiors. The speech of angels (as may be seen above, n, 234-245) so flows forth
from affection modified by ideas of thought that their speech completely conforms to their
thoughts from affection.

332. As soon as little children are resuscitated, which takes place immediately after death,
they are taken into heaven and confided to angel women who in the life of the body tenderly
loved little children and at the same time loved God. Because these during their life in the
world loved all children with a kind of motherly tenderness, they receive them as their own;
while the children, from an implanted instinct, love them as their own mothers. There are as
many children in each one's care as she desires from a spiritual parental affection. This heaven
appears in front before the forehead, directly in the line or radius in which the angels look
to the Lord. It is so situated because all little children are under the immediate auspices
of the Lord; and the heaven of innocence, which is the third heaven, flows into them.

333. Little children have various dispositions, some that of the spiritual angels and some
that of the celestial angels. Those who are of a celestial disposition are seen in that heaven
to the right, and those of a spiritual disposition to the left. All children in the Greatest
Man, which is heaven, are in the province of the eyes-those of a spiritual disposition in the
province of the left eye, and those of a celestial disposition in the province of the right
eye. This is because the angels who are in the spiritual kingdom see the Lord before the left
eye, and those who are in the celestial kingdom before the right eye (see above, n. 118). This
fact that in the Greatest Man or heaven children are in the province of the eyes is a proof
that they are under the immediate sight and auspices of the Lord.

334. How children are taught in heaven shall also be briefly told. From their nurses they learn
to talk. Their earliest speech is simply a sound of affection; this by degrees becomes more
distinct as ideas of thought enter; for ideas of thought from affections constitute all angelic
speech (as may be seen in its own chapter, n. 234-245). Into their affections, all of which
proceed from innocence, such things as appear before their eyes and cause delight are first
instilled; and as these things are from a spiritual origin the things of heaven at once flow
into them, and by means of these heavenly things their interiors are opened, and they are thereby
daily perfected. But when this first age is completed they are transferred to another heaven,
where they are taught by masters; and so on.

335. Children are taught chiefly by representatives suited to their capacity. These are beautiful
and full of wisdom from within, beyond all belief. In this way an intelligence that derives
its soul from good is gradually instilled into them. I will here describe two representatives
that I have been permitted to see, from which the nature of others may be inferred. First there
was a representation of the Lord's rising from the sepulchre, and at the same time of the uniting
of His Human with the Divine. This was done in a manner so wise as to surpass all human wisdom,
and at the same time in an innocent infantile manner. An idea of a sepulchre was presented,
and with it an idea of the Lord, but in so remote a way that there was scarcely any perception
of its being the Lord, except seemingly afar off; and for the reason that in the idea of a
sepulchre there is something funereal, and this was thus removed, after wards they cautiously
admitted into the sepulchre something atmospheric, with an appearance of thin vapor, by which
with proper remoteness they signified spiritual life in baptism. Afterwards I saw a representation
by the angels of the Lord's descent to those that are "bound," and of His ascent with these
into heaven, and this with incomparable prudence and gentleness. In adaptation to the infantile
mind they let down little cords almost invisible, very soft and tender, by which they lightened
the Lord's ascent, always with a holy solicitude that there should be nothing in the representation
bordering upon anything that did not contain what is spiritual and heavenly. Other representations
are there given, whereby, as by plays adapted to the minds of children, they are guided into
knowledges of truth and affections for good.

336. It was also shown how tender their understanding is. When I was praying the Lord's Prayer,
and from their under standing they flowed into the ideas of my thought, their influx was perceived
to be so tender and soft as to be almost solely a matter of affection; and at the same time
it was observed that their understanding was open even from the Lord, for what flowed forth
from them was as if it simply flowed through them. Moreover, the Lord flows into the ideas
of little children chiefly from inmosts, for there is nothing, as with adults, to close up
their ideas, no principles of falsity to close the way to the understanding of truth, nor any
life of evil to close the way to the reception of good, and thereby to the reception of wisdom.
All this makes clear that little children do not come at once after death into an angelic state,
but are gradually brought into it by means of knowledges of good and truth, and in harmony
with all heavenly order; for the least particulars of their nature are known to the Lord, and
thus they are led, in accord with each and every movement of their inclination, to receive
the truths of good and the goods of truth.

337. I have also been shown how all things are instilled into them by delightful and pleasant
means suited to their genius. I have been permitted to see children most charmingly attired,
having garlands of flowers resplendent with most beautiful and heavenly colors twined about
their breasts and around their tender arms; and once to see them accompanied by those in charge
of them and by maidens, in a park most beautifully adorned, not so much with trees, as with
arbors and covered walks of laurel, with paths leading inward; and when the children entered
attired as they were the flowers over the entrance shone forth most joyously. This indicates
the nature of their delights, also how they are led by means of pleasant and delightful things
into the goods of innocence and charity, which goods the Lord continually instilled into these
delights and pleasures.

338. It was shown me, by a mode of communication common in the other life, what the ideas of
children are when they see objects of any kind. Each and every object seemed to them to be
alive; and thus in every least idea of their thought there is life. The
shape and size of the cartridge, it favored the way, exceptionally, this in a corner the cabin
to be positioned so that it smashed through the platform and its effect must also the ribs of
the hull work achieved. The explosion could now only through the primer, equipped with the cartridge
was to be done, that was the part of the heiklichste whole project, because this primer was only
after the scheduled time set on fire be.

Uncle Prudent had thought the course follows: Immediately after completion of the repair work in front of
the driving screw Aeronef should take the way north again, where the above was done, was close
to the probability that Robur and his men to the rear deck would come to the rear drive screw to put
in good standing. The presence the whole team, in the vicinity of the cabin but could easily at
his Uncle Prudent Disturbing activity. Therefore, he had decided to use a wick, means to to
effect the same explosion at a certain time.

He spoke out against it Phil Evans of the following words:

"When I took the cartridge, I have taken the same time some powder. This I think a powder fuse manufacture,
the length of their desired focal length in agreement will be put
to the end and I intend to fix in the primer. The
reason why children appear more mature, thus as youths and young men,
as they are perfected in intelligence and wisdom, is that
intelligence and wisdom are essential spiritual nourishment;{1} and
thus the things that nourish their minds also nourish their bodies,
and this from correspondence; for the form of the body is simply the
external form of the interiors. But it should be understood that in
heaven children advance in age only to early manhood, and remain in
this to eternity. That I might be assured that this is so I have been
permitted to talk with some who had been educated as children in
heaven, and had grown up there; with some also while they were
children, and again with the same when they had become young men; and
I have heard from them about the progress of their life from one age
to another. Therefore in a spiritual sense
  everything that comes forth from the mouth of the Lord is food
  (n. 681). Because bread means all food in general it signifies
  every good, celestial and spiritual (n. 276, 680, 2165, 2177,
  3478, 6118, 8410). And for the reason that these nourish the
  mind, which belongs to the internal man (n. 4459, 5293, 5576,
  6277, 8410). 

Truly a man lay near one of the Ruff. Apparently was the same as to say wont be hardly dozed off.
If this noise is proposed that the flight had to be impossible.

Near here were some ropes, pieces of canvas and oakum, which all in
repairing Screw had been used.

A minute later the man was gagged, wrapped over and over and to a
post Castells bound of the front, so that he does not give a sound,
nor a movement could make.

All this took place almost without any noise.

Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans listened excited ... Even inside the
Ruffs had no According to listen.

What was on board, was fast asleep.

The two fugitives - because that name should not be given to them
well - came after the number of Frycollin occupied cabin.

François Tapage was heard a most soothing snoring.

The biggest surprise took Uncle Prudent Frycollin the door's not even
aufzuklinken, because this was open.

He advocated a step in the cabin, but withdrew again back.

"There is no one d'rin," he whispered.

- No one ... Where he be?

"Muttered Phil Evans.

Both now went further ahead in the opinion Frycollin would in some
corner have fallen asleep.

Here, too, found no one.

"If the thief already have preceded us?

... Asked Uncle Prudent.

- This may be the case or not, "replied Phil Evans, we can not be longer . Wait Forward! "

Without hesitation, grabbed the refugees one by one the rope with his hands and held firmly with
your feet in it, then it slid down and came out safe and sound down to earth.

What a delight for them to enter the ground, who had been missing
for so long, to solid basis to go there and not at the mercy of the
air to be!

They looked flat, along the small watercourse hinwandernd, according
to the interior of the island , Arrive as suddenly before them rose
a shadow.

That was Frycollin.

Yes, the blacks had had the same thought that his master had come,
and even the Boldness, without any notification to bring the same
before the execution.

Now, of course was no time for arguments, and it urged Uncle Prudent
much more to find a refuge in remote parts of the island, are as Phil
Evans remained.

"Listen to me, Uncle Prudent," he began.

We are now out of the sphere that Robur.

He and his crew are dedicated to a terrible death, and I admit that he deserves it added. But
if he now wanted to swear on his honor in every attempt to meet again
with him to drag to move away ...

- The honor of such a man ... "

Uncle Prudent could not finish the sentence.

On board the "Albatross" was a striking Movement.

Apparently had sounded the alarm and the flight was discovered.

"Here, here," cried a voice.

This came from the guard-to-do, who can strip off the wrapping yet. Almost simultaneously the board
threw their electric lights rays over a wide radius.

"There they are, down there!" exclaimed Tom Turner.

The refugees had been detected.

At the same time, according to a command imparted Robur's down the movement of the lift screws
slow recovery of the anchor line and began the "Albatros" approach
the Earth.

At that moment could be clearly heard the voice of Phil Evans':

"Engineer Robur! Agree he called you to honor us here on this island for free ? Leave

- Never "Robur determined reply.

This response also accompanied the bang of a gun, the projectile shoulder Phil Evans slipped
'.

"Ah, these scoundrels!" said Uncle Prudent.

His knife in his hand, he threw it after the rock, which intervene
between the anchor had.

The Aeronef was only fifty feet above the ground.

Within a few seconds the rope was cut, and the more noticeably refreshed
Breeze that met the "albatross" in an oblique direction, led this
to the northeast of the Sea.

XVI.

Which leaves the reader in a perhaps deplorable uncertainty.

It was now twenty minutes after midnight.

Another five or six gunshots rang out down from the Aeronef.

Phil Evans supportive, be prudent and uncle had Frycollin refuge under the protection of the
rocks, without being injured by a bullet. For the moment they had nothing more to fear.

First, the "Albatros" was while he was simultaneously removed from the island of Chatham, driven
up to a height of nine hundred meters. He had his ascent speed must increase in order not to
fall into the sea.

At the moment, exhausted as the Emballage freed from his guard post the first cry had been Robur and
Tom Turner hastened to him and had him completely from the head enclosing canvas cover, free and dissolved
his bonds. Then rushed the navigator right after the cabin of Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans,
but this was empty.

François Tapage had meanwhile searched the cabin's Frycollin; was
no one in this more.

As Robur the conviction gained that his prisoners had escaped him, took him to the violent anger.
With the escape of Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans' was his secret, and his personality all over
the world revealed. Because of that when passing over Europe thrown down Magazine piece he had
done so much less worry, because he could accept that the same was
in the low traps ever lost ... Now the matter but was quite different.

Then he tried again to calm her.

"They are preliminary but escaped, he said to himself, as it before the end of the island but
Chatam can not get away a few days, I shall return there. I will look for them ... catch it again
... and then ... "

In fact, the three are considered refugees by no means as saved. Acquired of the "albatross"
for the first Manövrirfähigkeit his back, he certainly appeared again at the Chatham Island, from
those could hardly escape soon enough. Even before the course twelve hours, they could be
unfavorable case, the engineer again fallen into their hands.

Before the course of twelve hours? But within two hours the "Albatros" even destroyed be! Resembled
those dynamite cartridge is not a fortified wall on its torpedo,
which the destruction should perform mid-air?

Meanwhile, the Aeronef of the more stiffening breeze was further to the northeast and had driven out with
the sunrise island Chatam absolutely lost sight of have.

In order to prevail against the wind, had his driving screws, at least
the one on Anterior part, to perform their functions must be capable
of.

"Tom said, the engineer, the signal lights as bright as possible to let shine.

- At once, Master Robur.

- And then all the work!

- All "repeated
the navigator.

Now could not it be said, the completion of necessary repairs to the postpone the next morning.
By clicking the "Albatros" there was no man who is not the zeal of his Chefs divided, not one
who would have had no desire to return refugees to take. When the front drive screw was inserted correctly,
they wanted to Chatam , Turn lie at anchor there and follow the trail of the fugitives. Only later
should the repair of the posterior screw are made to enable the Aeronef then can perform all
security his journey across the Pacific Ocean and to the island of X.

In any case, it was important that the "Albatros" is not devious too far to the northeast would.
Sorry, but the wind was getting stronger and he could not rise against
the same now yes, did not even get on the same site.

His drive screws stripped He had just become a steerable aerostat. The still on the coast
because refugees were able to convince that he had come completely out of sight before the prepared
Explosion tore him to pieces.

The present state of affairs inspired Robur but some have a concern, as it only with rather
significant delay to return to the island of Chatham might hope. He decided Thus, while all hands
were busy with the repair so necessary to look deeper settle down, expecting to be found a weaker air
flow.

Maybe could the "albatross" in these layers at least get to the place
until he returns own strength enough could comment on in order to
fight against the breeze with success.

This maneuver was performed immediately.

If it had now been a ship in the area, how would the team be shocked at the sight of the evolution
of this huge Apparatus?

As the "Albatros" only hovered a few hundred feet above the sea surface, was his downfall stopped.

Unfortunately,
Robur had to be convinced that the wind in these lower zones only
violent was driven was blowing and the Aeronef so with even greater
speed then.

He ran hereby danger, of course, be devious very far to the northeast, which return to the island
Chatham had to be delayed even more.

After these failed attempts, therefore, decided again to do more in the upper to obtain documentation
of the atmosphere where the air-sea in better balance and therefore less was moved. The "Albatros"
climbed again to an average height of three thousand meters up.

Did he not also stationary, so he drove yet more slowly. The engineer could hope, therefore,
that he at daybreak, and from this height of the island, their geographical location was the
way he recorded with perfect security, nor will can see.

About whether the refugees on the part of the natives - the island was inhabited in the case
- a friendly reception had been made or not made Robur no further concern. Whether for their
help, the islanders helpful for him was rather minor. Through the attack weapons, on the "Albatros"
possessed, they would surely be alarmed and dispersed quickly.

The recovery of the prisoners was therefore an easy task, and one taken ...

"Well, no one escapes from the island of X!" said Robur.

An hour after midnight, the front engine set screw in position. It was not necessary now just
have the same Montirung, ie the corresponding attachment thereof to the shaft, which required
an additional hour of work. Afterwards, should the "albatross" that bows to the Southwest addressed
immediately exit and made the repair of the rear engine bolt in attack
be.

But the rat, which gleamed in the abandoned cabin, this sliver of
the now three Part, was exhausted!

... And that spark that approached more and more of the dynamite
cartridges!

...

Had the crew of the Aeronef been so busy not even urgent, but would
Perhaps the one perceived the faint rustle, which now and then, in
the Ruff was, perhaps he would have noticed the smell of burnt powder.

That it would certainly so worried that he was the engineer off the communication. On closer
scrutiny could then the box in which the body was hidden explode, do not remain undetected.
It would thus still have time, the wonderful "Albatros" and all that he came to save.

The people working, but on the front deck and at least twenty meters away from the Ruff the fugitives.
Still, they said nothing to this part of the deck, and nothing of it could divert a job that
took her full attention.

Robur put himself as a skilled mechanic with hands on. He pursued
the work without negligible but somehow, that everything was done
with great care, because he yes it arrived, his apparatus to master
completely. Succeeded him, not the prisoners soon back into his power,
they were expected to opportunity in their Homeland return. Then,
in any event conducted research and the island X could it possibly
be located; but it would be the end of existence came what are the
people who wore the "Albatros", had created - the end of this superhuman,
so to say, sublime way of life.

Right now Tom Turner came up to the
engineer. It was a quarter ein clock.

"Master Robur, he began, I
think, the breeze has tendency to falter and more to the west turn
over.

- And what does the barometer? asked Robur, after he looks
at the sky briefly.

- He keeps pretty much the same points, said
the navigator. In addition, it seems to me as if the cloud layers
below the "Albatros" is lowered.

- Quite right, Tom Turner, and in
this case it would not be unlikely that over the Seas now fall rain.
However, we remain suspended of the rainy zone, so we care about the
not know and we will not be disturbed in the completion of our work
by it.

- Now, when rain falls, "said Tom Turner, it can only be a
very fine - the form of clouds can at least conjecture - and most
likely lies down deep below soon the wind entirely.

- Without doubt,
Tom answered Robur. After all, it seems more appropriate not down
to go. Let us hurry only to repair any damage suffered, then we can
yes maneuver at will, and that's the main thing. "

A few minutes
after two clock was completed in the first part of the work. After
Reinstatement the front driving screw driving those batteries were
placed in the activity. After and after accelerated the movement of
the "albatross" and directed the bow to the southwest, He returned
at medium speed in the direction back to the island of Chatam.

"Tom,"
said Robur, it may be passed about two and a half hours since we to
northeast were driven out. The wind direction has, as I taught Compaßbeobachtungen
since not changed. So I guess that we are within a maximum of one
hour, the shores of the island may have been found.

- I believe it
also master replied Robur, the navigator, because we are moving now
forward at a speed of twelve meters per second. Between three and
four clock Morning would have the "Albatros" his starting point, therefore
to reach again.

- This would be the better, Tom replied the engineer.
We have an interest, nor arrive during the night, and unseen to come
ashore. The refugees keep us for devious far north and are now certainly
not on their guard. If the "Albatros" go forward quite close to the
ground, we will try our behind some high rocks of the island to hide.
If we had to spend several days at Chatam even then ...

- So we just
stay there, Master Robur, and if we had against a whole army of natives
to fight ...

- So we fight, Tom fight, we are for our "Albatros"
"!

The engineer turned back to his new arrangements of people expected.

"Dear
friends, he said, nor the hour of peace has not come, we need to break
of the day, be active. "

All agreed. 

Now it was to alter the rear
engine bolt the same repairs, which at the front were already running.
These were the same damages the same cause, that hurricane when passing
over the Antarctic continent causes had.

To recoup this screw, it
seemed advisable to drive during some of the Aeronef minutes or to
interrupt himself to impart a backward movement. At a signal Robur's
put the auxiliary mechanic to the machine by the front screw in the
opposite Meaning turn left so that the Aeronef - to use the maritime
and expression - 'on Tax will be started. " The degree itself of affection and desire is like a
measure that is filled to the full, he that has a large measure receiving more, and he that
has a small measure receiving less. This is so because man's love, to which affection and desire
belong, receives all that accords with itself; consequently reception is measured by the love.
This is what is meant by the Lord's words,

     To him that hath it shall be given, that he may have more
     abundantly (Matt. 13:12; 25:29).

     Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running
     over, shall be given into your bosom (Luke 6:38).

350. All are received into heaven who have loved truth and good for the sake of truth and good;
therefore those that have loved much are called the wise, and those that have loved little
are called the simple. The wise in heaven are in much light, the simple in less light, everyone
in accordance with the degree of his love for good and truth. To love truth and good for the
sake of truth and good is to will and do them; for those love who will and do, while those
who do not will and do do not love. Such also love the Lord and are loved by the Lord, because
good and truth are from the Lord. And inasmuch as good and truth are from the Lord the Lord
is in good and truth; and He is in those who receive good and truth in their life by willing
and doing. Moreover, when man is viewed in himself he is nothing but his own good and truth,
because good is of his will and truth of his understanding, and man is such as his will and
understanding are. Evidently, then, man is loved by the Lord just to the extent that his will
is formed from good and his understanding from truth. Also to be loved by the Lord is to love
the Lord, since love is reciprocal; for upon him who is loved the Lord bestows ability to love.

351. It is believed in the world that those who have much knowledge, whether it be knowledge
of the teachings of the church and the Word or of the sciences, have a more interior and keen
vision of truth than others, that is, are more intelligent and wise; and such have this opinion
of themselves. But what true intelligence and wisdom are, and what spurious and false intelligence
and wisdom are, shall be told in what now follows. [2] True intelligence and wisdom is seeing
and perceiving what is true and good, and thereby what is false and evil, and clearly distinguishing
between them, and this from an interior intuition and perception. With every man there are
interior faculties and exterior faculties; interior faculties belonging to the internal or
spiritual man, and exterior faculties belonging to the exterior or natural man. Accordingly
as man's interiors are formed and made one with his exteriors man sees and perceives. His interiors
can be formed only in heaven, his exteriors are formed in the world. When his interiors have
been formed in heaven the things they contain flow into his exteriors which are from the world,
and so form them that they correspond with, that is, act as one with, his interiors; and when
this is done man sees and perceives from what is interior. The interiors can be formed only
in one way, namely, by man's looking to the Divine and to heaven, since, as has been said,
the interiors are formed in heaven; and man looks to the Divine when he believes in the Divine,
and believes that all truth and good and consequently all intelligence and wisdom are from
the Divine; and man believes in the Divine when he is willing to be led by the Divine. In this
way and none other are the interiors of man opened. [3] The man who is in that belief and in
a life that is in accordance with his belief has the ability and capacity to understand and
be wise; but to become intelligent and wise he must learn many things, both things pertaining
to heaven and things pertaining to the world--things pertaining to heaven from the Word and
from the church, and things pertaining to the world from the sciences. To the extent that man
learns and applies to life he becomes intelligent and wise, for to that extent the interior
sight belonging to his understanding and the interior affection belonging to his will are perfected.
The simple of this class are those whose interiors have been opened, but not so enriched by
spiritual, moral, civil and natural truths. Such perceive truths when they hear them, but do
not see them in themselves. But the wise of this class are those whose interiors have been
both opened and enriched. Such both see truths inwardly and perceive them. All this makes clear
what true intelligence is and what true wisdom is.

352. Spurious intelligence and wisdom is failing to see and perceive from within what is true
and what is good, and thereby what is false and what is evil, but merely believing that to
be true and good and that to be false and evil which is said by others to be so, and then confirming
it. Because such see truth from some one else, and not from the truth itself, they can seize
upon and believe what is false as readily as what is true, and can confirm it until it appears
true; for whatever is confirmed puts on the appearance of truth; and there is nothing that
can not be confirmed. The interiors of such are opened only from beneath; but their exteriors
are opened to the extent that they have confirmed themselves. For this reason the light from
which they see is not the light of heaven but the light of the world, which is called natural
light [lumen]; and in that light falsities can shine like truths; and when confirmed they can
even appear resplendent, but not in the light of heaven. Of this class those are less intelligent
and wise who have strongly confirmed themselves, and those are more intelligent and wise who
have less strongly confirmed themselves. All this shows what spurious intelligence and wisdom
are. [2] But those are not included in this class who in childhood supposed what they heard
from their masters to be true, if in a riper age, when they think from their own understanding,
they do not continue to hold fast to it, but long for truth, and from that longing seek for
it, and when they find it are interiorly moved by it. Because such are moved by the truth for
the truth's sake they see the truth before they confirm it.{1} [3] This may be illustrated
by an example. There was a discussion among spirits why animals are born into all the knowledge
suited to their nature, but man is not; and the reason was said to be that animals are in the
order of their life, and man is not, consequently man must needs be led into order by means
of what he learns of internal and external things. But if man were born into the order of his
life, which is to love God above all things and his neighbor as himself, he would be born into
intelligence and wisdom, and as knowledges are acquired would come into a belief in all truth.
Good spirits saw this at once and perceived it to be true, and this merely from the light of
truth; while the spirits who had confirmed themselves in faith alone, and had thereby set aside
love and charity, were unable to understand it, because the light of falsity which they had
confirmed had made obscure to them the light of truth.

  {Footnote 1} It is the part of the wise to see and perceive
  whether a thing is true before it is confirmed and not merely
  to confirm what is said by others (n. 1017, 4741, 7012, 7680,
  7950). Only those can see and perceive whether a thing is true
  before it is confirmed who are affected by truth for the sake
  of truth and for the sake of life (n. 8521). The light of
  confirmation is not spiritual light but natural light, and is
  even sensual light which the wicked may have (n. 8780). All
  things, even falsities, may be so confirmed as to appear like
  truths (n. 2477, 2480, 5033, 6865, 8521).

353. False intelligence and wisdom is all intelligence and wisdom that is separated from the
acknowledgment of the Divine; for all such as do not acknowledge the Divine, but acknowledge
nature in the place of the Divine, think from the bodily-sensual, and are merely sensual, however
highly they may be esteemed in the world for their accomplishments and learning.{1} For their
learning does not ascend beyond such things as appear before their eyes in the world; these
they hold in the memory and look at them in an almost material way, although the same knowledges
serve the truly intelligent in forming their understanding. By sciences the various kinds of
experimental knowledge are meant, such as physics, astronomy, chemistry, mechanics, geometry,
anatomy, psychology, philosophy, the history of kingdoms and of the literary world, criticism,
and languages. [2] The clergy who deny the Divine do not raise their thoughts above the sensual
things of the external man; and regard the things of the Word in the same way as others regard
the sciences, not making them matters of thought or of any intuition by an enlightened rational
mind; and for the reason that their interiors are closed up, together with those exteriors
that are nearest to their interiors. These are closed up because they have turned themselves
away from heaven, and have retroverted those faculties that were capable of looking heavenward,
which are, as has been said above, the interiors of the human mind. For this reason they are
incapable of seeing anything true or good, this being to them in thick darkness, while whatever
is false and evil is in light. [3] And yet sensual men can reason, some of them more cunningly
and keenly than any one else; but they reason from the fallacies of the senses confirmed by
their knowledges; and because they are able to reason in this way they believe themselves to
be wiser than others.{2} The fire that kindles with affection their reasonings is the fire
of the love of self and the world. Such are those who are in false intelligence and wisdom,
and who are meant by the Lord in Matthew:

     Seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do
     they understand (13:13-15).

And again:

     These things are hid from the intelligent and wise, and
     revealed unto babes (11:25, 26). A description
  of the sensual man (n. 10236). Sensual men are more
  cunning and malicious than others (n. 7693, 10236). By the
  ancients such were called serpents of the tree of knowledge (n.
  195-197, 6398, 6949, 10313).

354. It has been granted me to speak with many of the learned after their departure from the
world; with some of distinguished reputation and celebrated in the literary world for their
writings, and with some not so celebrated, although endowed with profound wisdom. Those that
in heart had denied the Divine, whatever their professions may have been, had become so stupid
as to have little comprehension even of anything truly civil, still less of anything spiritual.
I perceived and also saw that the interiors of their minds were so closed up as to appear black
(for in the spiritual world such things become visible), and in consequence they were unable
to endure any heavenly light or admit any influx from heaven. This blackness which their interiors
presented was more intense and extended with those that had confirmed themselves against the
Divine by the knowledges they had acquired. In the other life such accept all falsity with
delight, imbibing it as a sponge does water; and they repel all truth as an elastic bony substance
repels what falls upon it. In fact, it is said that the interiors of those that have confirmed
themselves against the Divine and in favor of nature become bony, and their heads down to the
nose appear callous like ebony, which is a sign that they no longer have any perception. Those
of this description are immersed in quagmires that appear like bogs; and there they are harassed
by the fantasies into which their falsities are turned. Their infernal fire is a lust for glory
and reputation, which prompts them to assail one another, and from an infernal ardor to torment
those about them who do not worship them as deities; and this they do one to another in turns.
Into such things is all the learning of the world changed that has not received into itself
light from heaven through acknowledgment of the Divine.

355. That these are such in the spiritual world when they come into it after death may be inferred
from this alone, that all things that are in the natural memory and are in immediate conjunction
with the things of bodily sense (which is true of such knowledges as are mentioned above) then
become quiescent; and only such rational principles as are drawn from these then serve for
thought and speech. For man carries with him his entire natural memory, but its contents are
not then under his view, and do not come into his thought as when he lived in the world. He
can take nothing from that memory and bring it forth into spiritual light because its contents
are not objects of that light. But those things of the reason and understanding that man has
acquired from knowledges while living in the body are in accord with the light of the spiritual
world; consequently so far as the spirit of man has been made rational in the world through
knowledge and science it is to the same extent rational after being loosed from the body; for
man is then a spirit, and it is the spirit that thinks in the body.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Knowledges belong to the natural memory that man
  has while he is in the body (n. 5212, 9922). Unlike in the past taken his eye, the twinkling lights of the green Desire
tree, they break into darker colors inside, the seriousness of life, its changing Fortunes appear on
the horizon of the soul. He is no longer a child, and he does not have any Children. Only
when he brought home his beloved wife, when she presented him with pledges of love, Then it blossomed
into a second youth, and he is again with the full understanding before Christmas stand. The world he
is certainly now become clear. The sky has him at a infinite space of natural forces expanded,
but smiling and does not see without emotion his religious ideas as a toy in the hands of his
children. The interiors of the mind of such have been perceived by me, and were
seen as transparent from light of a glistening white, flamy, or blue color, like that of translucent
diamonds, rubies, and sapphires; and this in accordance with confirmations in favor of the
Divine and Divine truths drawn from science. Such is the appearance of true intelligence and
wisdom when they are presented to view in the spiritual world. This appearance is derived from
the light of heaven; and that light is Divine truth going forth from the Lord, which is the
source of all intelligence and wisdom (see above, n. 126-133). [2] The planes of that light,
in which variegations like those of colors exist, are the interiors of the mind; and these
variegations are produced by confirmations of Divine truths by means of such things as are
in nature, that is, in the sciences.{1} For the interior mind of man looks into the things
of the natural memory, and the things there that will serve as proofs it sublimates as it were
by the fire of heavenly love, and withdraws and purifies them even into spiritual ideas. This
is unknown to man as long as he lives in the body, because there he thinks both spiritually
and naturally, and he has no perception of the things he then thinks spiritually, but only
of those he thinks naturally. Now we may well be interested in the use of the motif with the poet. We get
the impression that the poet would a reduction of the subject to the original Myth front of you so
that the moving through the distortion weakened sense of the latter is felt by us. This reduction
of the distortion, the partial return the original, the poet achieved the deeper effect he
created with us.

To avoid misunderstandings I want to say, I have to contradict the intention of that the tragedy
of King Lear would have to inculcate the two doctrines, we should be on Good and not renounce
his rights during his lifetime, and one must beware of flattery to take at face value. These
and similar warnings resulting from the play, really, but it seems quite impossible, the incredible
effect of Lear from the impression that Contents of thought to explain or to assume that the
personal motives of the poet with carry forward the intention of the teachings were exhausted.
The information that the poet us want to play for the tragedy of ingratitude, that he might feel
remorse in his own body, and the effect of the game based on the purely formal moment of artistic
guise, does not seem to understand to replace, which to us through the appreciation of the subject
of Choice between the three sisters will be opened.

Lear is an old man we have said, so the three sisters appear to be his daughters. The Lord's money,
could erfließen from which so much fertile dramatic drives will the drama continues not recovered.
Lear is not only an age, but also a dying man. The so peculiar condition of inheritance loses
all strangeness. This the Expired death but wants to do without the love of the woman, he
wants to hear how much he is loved. Now consider the shocking last scene, one of the highlights
of the Tragedy in modern drama: the corpse of Cordelia with Lear on the stage. Cordelia is
death. If we reverse the situation, it is understandable and familiar to us. It is the Goddess of death,
which carries away the dead hero from the battle-field, like the Valkyrie in German Mythology. Eternal
wisdom in the guise of the ancient myth advises the old man to renounce
the love to choose death, to make friends with the necessity of dying.

The poet brings us closer to the old location by the choice between the three sisters of an aged
and dying can take place. The regressive process, which he so made with the transformation distorted by
wishful myth, the old sense can so far Shine through us that perhaps a two-dimensional, allegorical
interpretation of the three female characters the subject is possible. One could say that there are
three inevitable for the man Relations in marriage, which are shown here: the woman in labor,
the comrade and the corrupter. Or the three forms, which he transformed the image of the mother
in the course of life: Mother herself, the mistress, which he selected after their own image,
and finally the Mother Earth, which it resumes. The old man snatches in vain for the love of
the woman as he received first by the mother, only the third of the
Fates, the silent Goddess of Death will take him in her arms.

     While incongruous and opposing knowledges [scientifica]
     are rejected to the sides and banished (n. 5871, 5886,
     5889).

     [4] The sight of the internal man calls forth from the
     knowledges [scientificis] of the external man only such
     things as are in accord with its love (n. 9394).

     As seen by the internal man what pertains to the love is
     at the center and in brightness, but what is not of the
     love is at the sides and in obscurity (n. 6068, 6084).

     Suitable knowledges [scientifica] are gradually implanted
     in man's loves and as it were dwell in them (n. 6325).

     If man were born into love towards the neighbor he would
     be born into intelligence, but because he is born into the
     loves of self and of the world he is born into total
     ignorance (n. 6323, 6325).

     Knowledge [scientia], intelligence, and wisdom are sons of
     love to God and of love towards the neighbor (n. 1226,
     2049, 2116).

     [5] It is one thing to be wise, another thing to
     understand, another to know [scire], and another to do;
     nevertheless, in those that possess spiritual life these
     follow in order, and exist together in doing or deeds (n.
     10331).

     Also it is one thing to know [scire], another to
     acknowledge, and another to have faith (n. 896).

     [6] Knowledges [scientifica], which pertain to the
     external or natural man, are in the light of the world,
     but truths that have been made truths of faith and of
     love, and have thus acquired life, are in the light of
     heaven (n. 5212).

     The truths that have acquired spiritual life are
     comprehended by means of natural ideas (n. 5510).

     Spiritual influx is from the internal or spiritual man
     into the knowledges [scientifica] that are in the external
     or natural man (n. 1940, 8005).

     Knowledges [scientifica] are receptacles, and as it were
     vessels, for the truth and good that belong to the
     internal man (n. 1469, 1496, 3068, 5489, 6004, 6023, 6052,
     6071, 6077, 7770, 9922).

     Knowledges [scientifica] are like mirrors in which the
     truths and goods of the internal man appear as an image
     (n. 5201).

     There they are together as in their outmost (n. 5373,
     5874, 5886, 5901, 6004, 6023, 6052, 6071).

     [7] Influx is not physical but spiritual, that is, influx
     is from the internal man into the external, thus into the
     knowledges of the external; and not from the external into
     the internal, thus not from the knowledges [scientificis]
     of the external into truths of faith (n. 3219, 5119, 5259,
     5427, 5428, 5478, 6322, 9110).

     A beginning must be made from the truths of doctrine of
     the church, which are from the Word, and those truths must
     first be acknowledged, and then it is permissible to
     consult knowledges [scientifica] (n. 6047).

     Thus it is permissible for those who are in an affirmative
     state in regard to truths of faith to confirm them
     intellectually by means of knowledges [scientifica], but
     not for those who are in a negative state (n. 2568, 2588,
     4760, 6047).

     He that will not believe Divine truths until he is
     convinced by means of knowledges [scientificis] will never
     believe (n. 2094, 2832).

     To enter from knowledge [scientificis] into the truths of
     faith is contrary to order (n. 10236).

     Those who do so become demented respecting the things of
     heaven and the church (n. 128, 129, 130).

     They fall into the falsities of evil (n. 232, 233, 6047).

     In the other life when they think about spiritual matters
     they become as it were drunken (n. 1072).

     More respecting the character of such (n. 196).

      Examples showing that things spiritual cannot be
      comprehended when entered into through knowledges
      [scientifica] (n. 233, 2094, 2196, 2203, 2209).

     In spiritual things many of the learned are more demented
     than the simple, for the reason that they are in a
     negative state, which they confirm by means of the
     knowledges [scientifica] which they have continually and
     in abundance before their sight (n. 4760, 8629).

     [8] Those who reason from knowledges [scientificis]
     against the truths of faith reason keenly because they
     reason from the fallacies of the senses, which are
     engaging and convincing, because they cannot easily be
     dispelled (n. 5700).

     What things are fallacies of the senses, and what they are
     (n. 5084, 5094, 6400, 6948).

     Those that have no understanding of truth, and also those
     that are in evil, are able to reason about the truths and
     goods of faith, but are not able to understand them (n.
     4214).

     Intelligence does not consist in merely confirming dogma
     but in seeing whether it is true or not before it is
     confirmed (n. 4741, 6047).

     [9] Knowledges [scientiae] are of no avail after death,
     but only that which man has imbibed in his understanding
     and life by means of knowledges [scientias] (n. 2480).

     Still all knowledge [scientifica] remains after death,
     although it is quiescent (n. 2476-2479, 2481-2486).

     [10] Knowledge [scientifica] with the evil are falsities,
     because they are adapted to evils, but with the good the
     same knowledges are truths, because applied to what is
     good (n. 6917).

     True knowledges [scientifica] with the evil are not true,
     however much they may appear to be true when uttered,
     because there is evil within them (n. 10331).

     [11] An example of the desire to know [sciendi], which
     spirits have (n. 1974).

     The knowledge [scientia] of the ancients was the knowledge
     [scientia] of correspondences and representations, by
     which they gained entrance into the knowledge
     [cognitionem] of spiritual things; but that knowledge
     [scientia] at this day is wholly lost (n. 4749, 4844,
     4964, 4965).

     [12] For spiritual truths to be comprehended the following
     universals must be known [scientur]. (i) All things in the
     universe have relation to good and truth and to their
     conjunction that they may be anything, thus to love and
     faith and their conjunction. (ii) Man has understanding
     and will; and the understanding is the receptacle of truth
     and the will of good; and all things in man have relation
     to these two and to their conjunction, as all things have
     relation to truth and good and their conjunction. (iii)
     There is an internal man and an external man, which are as
     distinct from each other as heaven and the world are, and
     yet for a man to be truly a man, these must make one. (iv)
     The internal man is in the light of heaven, and the
     external man is in the light of the world; and the light
     of heaven is Divine truth itself, from which is all
     intelligence. (v) Between the things in the internal man
     and those in the external there is a correspondence,
     therefore the different aspect they present is such that
     they can be distinguished only by means of a knowledge
     [scientiam] of correspondences. Unless these and many
     other things are known [scientur], nothing but incongruous
     ideas of spiritual and heavenly truths can be conceived
     and formed; therefore without these universals the
     knowledges [scientifica et cognitiones] of the natural man
     can be of but little service to the rational man for
     understanding and growth. This makes clear how necessary
     knowledges [scientifica] are.

357. XXXIX. THE RICH AND THE POOR IN HEAVEN.

There are various opinions about reception into heaven. Some are of the opinion that the poor
are received and the rich are not; some that the rich and the poor are equally received; some
that the rich can be received only by giving up their wealth and becoming like the poor; and
proofs are found in the Word for all of these opinions. But those who make a distinction in
regard to heaven between the rich and the poor do not understand the Word. In its interiors
the Word is spiritual, but in the letter it is natural; consequently those who understand the
Word only in accordance with its literal sense, and not according to any spiritual sense, err
in many respects, especially about the rich and the poor; for example, that it is as difficult
for the rich to enter into heaven as for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle; and that
it is easy for the poor because they are poor, since it is said,

     Blessed are the poor, for theirs is the kingdom of the
     heavens (Matt. 5:3; Luke 6:20, 21).

But those who know anything of the spiritual sense of the Word think otherwise; they know that
heaven is for all who live a life of faith and love, whether rich or poor. But who are meant
in the Word by "the rich" and who by "the poor" will be told in what follows. From much conversation
and interaction with angels it has been granted me to know with certainty that the rich enter
heaven just as easily as the poor, and that no man is shut out of heaven on account of his
wealth, or received into heaven on account of his poverty. Both the rich and the poor are in
heaven, and many of the rich in greater glory and happiness than the poor.

358. It should be said to begin with that a man may acquire riches and accumulate wealth as
far as opportunity is given, if it is not done by craft or fraud; that he may enjoy the delicacies
of food and drink if he does not place his life therein; that he may have a palatial dwelling
in accord with his condition, have interaction with others in like condition, frequent places
of amusement, talk about the affairs of the world, and need not go about like a devotee with
a sad and sorrowful countenance and drooping head, but may be joyful and cheerful; nor need
he give his goods to the poor except so far as affection leads him; in a word, he may live
outwardly precisely like a man of the world; and all this will be no obstacle to his entering
heaven, provided that inwardly in himself he thinks about God as he ought, and acts sincerely
and justly in respect to his neighbor. For a man is such as his affection and thought are,
or such as his love and faith are, and from these all his outward acts derive their life; since
acting is willing, and speaking is thinking, acting being from the will, and speaking from
the thought. So where it is said in the Word that man will be judged according to his deeds,
and will be rewarded according to his works, it is meant that he will be judged and rewarded
in accordance with his thought and affection, which are the source of his deeds, or which are
in his deeds; for deeds are nothing apart from these, and are precisely such as these are.{1}
All this shows that the man's external accomplishes nothing, but only his internal, which is
the source of the external. For example: if a man acts honestly and refrains from fraud solely
because he fears the laws and the loss of reputation and thereby of honor or gain, and if that
fear did not restrain him would defraud others whenever he could; although such a man's deeds
outwardly appear honest, his thought and will are fraud; and because he is inwardly dishonest
and fraudulent he has hell in himself. But he who acts honestly and refrains from fraud because
it is against God and against the neighbor would have no wish to defraud another if he could;
his thought and will are conscience, and he has heaven in himself. The deeds of these two appear
alike in outward form, but inwardly they are wholly unlike.

  {Footnote 1} It is frequently said in the Word that man will be
  judged and will be rewarded according to his deeds and works
  (n. 3934). By "deeds and works" deeds and works in their
  internal form are meant, not in their external form, since good
  works in external form are likewise done by the wicked, but in
  internal and external form together only by the good (n. 3934,
  6073). Works, like all activities, have their being and outgo
  [esse et existere] and their quality from the interiors of man,
  which pertain to his thought and will, since they proceed from
  these; therefore such as the interiors are such are the works
  (n. 3934, 8911, 10331). That is, such as the interiors are in
  regard to love and faith (n. 3934, 6073, 10331, 10332). Thus
  works contain love and faith, and are love and faith in effect
  (n. 10331). Therefore to be judged and rewarded in accordance
  with deeds and works, means in accordance with love and faith
  (n. 3147, 3934, 6073, 8911, 10331, 10332). So far as works look
  to self and the world they are not good, but they are good so
  far as they look to the Lord and the neighbor (n. 3147).

359. Since a man can live outwardly as others do, can grow rich, keep a plentiful table, dwell
in an elegant house and wear fine clothing according to his condition and function, can enjoy
delights and gratifications, and engage in worldly affairs for the sake of his occupation and
business and for the life both of the mind and body, provided he inwardly acknowledges the
Divine and wishes well to the neighbor, it is evident that to enter upon the way to heaven
is not so difficult as many believe. 11:29, 30).

The Lord's yoke is easy and His burden light because a man is led by
the Lord and not by self just to the extent that he resists the evils
that flow forth from love of self and of the world; and because the
Lord then resists these evils in man and removes them. Into such loves man is born,
  thus in them are his inherited evils (n. 694, 4317, 5660).

360. I have spoken with some after death who, while they lived in the world, renounced the
world and gave themselves up to an almost solitary life, in order that by an abstraction of
the thoughts from worldly things they might have opportunity for pious meditations, believing
that thus they might enter the way to heaven. But these in the other life are of a sad disposition;
they despise others who are not like themselves; they are indignant that they do not have a
happier lot than others, believing that they have merited it; they have no interest in others,
and turn away from the duties of charity by which there is conjunction with heaven. If also
was in vain, it was not useless, for the Schuylkill required a thorough cleaning just in time
necessary. Oh, there are practical people who aediles of Philadelphia!

Later it turned to the popular newspapers. View, Reclamation, if not Reclame even been to all
the democratic and republican leaves of the Union - without Whatever their color - shipped.
The "Daily Negro" the especial organ of the black Race, brought Frycollin's portrait after its
last photograph. They offered rewards and promised rates to anyone who might be absent from
the three message, and even all To those who only discovered any
signs that promised to lead on the track.

"Five thousand dollars! Five thousand dollars to every citizen who ..."

In vain, the five thousand dollars remained in the Casse of the Weldon Institute.

Not "find non! Not find! Find! Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans of Philadelphia! "

It goes without saying that the club by this unexplained disappearance of its chairman and saw
his secretary fell into hopeless confusion from the start and the same is by this Nothlage forced
to resolutions that previously operated as eager and already fairly advanced work regarding
construction of the "Go a head" for an indefinite period set.

How would the other members in the absence of the two founders and
Sponsors of this company, the same - time and money - a portion of
their assets sacrificed had to decide to keep a plant over when those
were absent to To crown it as it were?

So they had to take patience.

Just at that time went on anew talk of the wonderful, strange phenomenon, which several weeks before
all the spirits had caused so vividly.

In fact, those mysterious object was seen over and over again, as he floated through the upper
layers of the atmosphere. Certainly no one thought of a link of this striking phenomenon with the
equally inexplicable disappearance the two members of the Weldon Institute. It would also have
an unusual dose of Imagination needed to bring these two facts with each other here.

In any event, the asteroid, the cooled air or the fire ball monster,
how to wanted to call phenomenon has now been seen under conditions
that its size and shape allowed to estimate better.

First in Canada over the field parts, which are derived from Ottawa extend to Quebec, and indeed
the very next day after the disappearance of two colleagues; then later on the plains of the
Far West, as the "Albatros" at speed with one stroke of the great Pacific Railway measured.

From that day prevailed among the learned world, no more uncertainty, these bodies was not
a product of nature, but a Fly-apparatus with a practical application of the theory of "heavy
as the air." And if the creator and leader of this Aeronef for its person would receive the former
Incognito still standing, at least he saw it, so far it affected his machine, from now because it is the
same as close to the areas of the Far West could see. His mode of mechanical power source, such
as the nature of the machines, the apparatus which imparts its motion
was, however provisionally unknown.

At least however, was made clear that this Aeronef a very unusual locomotion inherent, for only
a few days later they were reported by his appearance in the heavenly realms, then from the northern
parts of Hindostan, and soon after from the steppes of Russia.

Who could now be that bold mechanic who ruled over such a large moving forces for the neither countries
nor seas had a limit in the atmosphere like a him alone corresponding
areas on and prevailed?

If you believe that it could be that the Robur, of the Weldon Institute had flung his theories
so recklessly in the face, as He appeared at the conscious evening to the utopias of the steerable
balloon concerning a gaping lay slack?

Perhaps some were far-sighted minds this thought.

And - miraculously - Still, no one raised to believe that the said Robur with the disappearance of
the Chairman and could be the secretary of the Weldon Institute in any context.

This remained so even more secret, until a telegram from France by the trans-Atlantic Cable on 6
July siebenundreißig clock at eleven minutes in New-York arrived.

And as reported this dispatch? It sent the text of that in Paris in a snuff box Documents found -
of the document, which finally revealed what the two men had become, by which the Union was
about to create grief.

The author of the kidnapping but was so Robur, the engineer who for the sole purpose came to Philadelphia
to nip the theory of Ballonisten to speak in the egg. He was Aeronef of the "albatross" around
sailed he, the uncle of retaliation experienced injustice was kidnapped along with Prudent
and Phil Evans Frycollin the bargain in the air! And these people could look to as lost forever
if not by any kind of aid, an Machine was constructed which was able to fight those powerful force,
and when earthly friends That they thus did not come to their aid.

What excitement! What wonder! The Paris telegram was to the Bureau of the Weldon Institute adressirt
been. The members of the club were immediately inform knowledge.

After ten Minutes had completely Philadelphia experienced by his telephone the big news, within
an hour all over America because they had on the countless electrical wires of the New World
disseminated. It still did not quite believe it and thought it well for the Mystification a
bad joke Bolds - said the one hand - for a "smoke out" the worst kind - said the others. How
it would have been possible that robbery in Philadelphia in the so-secretly
run?

How could the "albatross" can go in Fairmont Park down to earth, without be seen on the horizon
of the state of Pennsylvania to?

Very beautiful - these were the usual arguments. - The unbelievers still retained to doubt
the law, it should be but seven days after the arrival of the telegram already . Lose On 13
July was the French packet boat "Normandy" at anchor in the Hudson - Brought the famous snuff
box. The railway transported the same in the greatest Ropes of New York to Philadelphia.

Yes, it was the box of the chairman of the Weldon Institute. Jem Cip had that day well done,
take a somewhat more substantial nourishment, as he was when he realized
to feel quite faint to fall down.

How often did, it became a Freundschaftsprieschen been reached! Miss Doll and Miss Mat they knew
well, this box, which they so often the secret wishes considered, one day their withered in to
Altjungfernfinger . Reduce And there were her father, William T. Forbes, Truk Milnor, Bat
T. Fyn, and many others from the Weldon Institute - a hundred times they had the same in the
hands of its distinguished chairman to open and close look. At last they had the testimony
of friends for himself, the Uncle Prudent in the good city of Philadelphia
had to their name - just not often enough can repeat them - indicating
that its residents love each other like brothers.

So now it was after this page is no shadow of a doubt get more upright.

Not only the box of the chairman, but especially to derogate from his writings Documents of the
allowed even the unbelievers not to shrug their shoulders. Since now began to wail and desperate
hands were raised toward heaven.

Uncle Prudent and his colleague kidnapped in a flying machine, without that one could discover a
means to to free!

The Society of the Niagara Falls, the strongest stockholders uncle was prudent, would have almost their
business is closed and the falls. The "Walton Watch Company" thought already working to liquid
its caucuses watch factory, as they had lost their director Phil Evans.

Yes, there was general sorrow, grief and the word is no exaggeration
here, because some brained heads, as one finds that even in the United
States, formed stiff and tight, see again the two honorable citizens
never.

After he had gone there to Paris, we heard of the "Albatros" not to talk for further. A few hours
later he had been seen hovering over Rome - that was all. In the known Speed ​​of Aeronef with
which he on Europe from north to south and the Mediterranean had driven from west to east,
so this should not surprise. And thanks to this very fast it was not a telescope to observe
more closely at any point of his journey line. And the observatories her entire staff day and
night would have been at the outposts, the Flying Machine Robur the conqueror had so far and so
high away - in "Icaria" as He used to say - that all were desperate
to find a track ever again.

It should be added that if his speed decreased over the banks of Africa also was, nevertheless, because
that document was not yet known, no one knew it, in the Aeronef To
find the height of the Algerian sky.

In any case, he was perceived by timbuctu; the observatory of this famous city - even if it has
such a - had but have not found time to impart the results of his
observations to Europe.

As for the King of Dahomey, this would certainly rather ten thousand subjects, and his ministers
included, have to make a head shorter, before he conceded, in the struggle failed in a floating in
the air machine to be. Everyone just indulged his little Self-love.

Furthermore, the contribution of the engineer Robur then over the Atlantic Ocean, where it
first to Tierra del Fuego and then came to the Cape Horn.

Furthermore, he was wrong, something against his will, on the most southern land vests and the
vast polar region of time. Of these Antarctic Areas of course, was no news to be expected.

The July passed, and no human eye could boast of the Aeronef again fleetingly seen to have.

The
August came to an end, without any of the uncertainty about the fate of two prisoners Robur's
changed a bit.

It began gradually to wonder whether the engineer, after the example of Icarus, this oldest
mechanic whose history of the legends mentioned, not a victim may have become his boldness.

Finally
passed and the only twenty-seven days of September without any change of the facts.

Known, so you get used to everything in the world. It is human nature, with the time to feel
the sting of pain less, one forgets, because it is necessary to to forget it. In this case
it was necessary, however, inhabitants of the earth to its valley
Said of honor that they differed from the general principle, not exhausted
still the warm sympathy with the lot of two whites and one black,
like the prophet Elias seemed kidnapped, which was prophesied by the
Bible no return.

In Philadelphia, which came, of course, more apparent than in any
other place, here yes it came closer personal relationships into play.

Robur had the Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans in revenge of their own alienated, had, though without
any right to a cruel Retaliation practiced.

But his throat was so cool? Would he not also have the same feel other colleagues of the chairman
and the secretary of the Weldon Institute have?

And who could imagine themselves secure against any attacks of that almighty ruler the sea air?

Since
ran on 28 September, a novelty, the whole city: Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans should then again
in the afternoon in the private residence of the chairman of the
Weldon Institute have emerged.

The strangest thing about this message was that they confirmed, although most do not wanted
to believe.

Yet you had to add the fact. These were the two disappeared in person - not its shadow - and
Frycollin had returned with them.

The members of the club, to their friends, and finally poured a huge crowd together in front of
Uncle Prudent's home. All greeted with jubilation, the two colleagues who were worn by cheers
and Hipps from hand to hand.

Here was Jem Cip that his breakfast - toasted with boiled Brotschnittchen
lathed - Had left, and William T. Forbes, together with his two daughters,
Miss Doll and Miss Mat Would Uncle Prudent was a Mormon, now he would
have to get all the two women; but he was not and had not the slightest
intention of it ever being.

Here were also Truk Milnor, Bat T. Fyn and finally the other members of the club. It is still
up this day remained a mystery, like Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans were alive from the thousands
of poor can emerge, which she also in her first swing through the
city many times threatened to overwhelm.

It was on that evening was the Weldon Institute to hold its usual weekly meeting. They counted
on their colleagues to see the two former places take it again. Since they way of their adventures
so far nothing had told - perhaps had the Throng of people they did not granted the necessary
time - it was hoped also that they now Tell the gehabten impressions during that trip would
be involuntary.

In fact, they both had behaved for some reason been quite silent, and dumb remained the servant
Frycollin, the quartered his tribesmen against great excitement almost had.

What the two colleagues have not said and probably had to say was this:

We hardly need the reader to the well-known events in the night of 27 28 July to come back, to
the daring escape running of the Chairman and Secretary of Weldon
Institute, for their lively excitement at migrating through the rocky
island of Chatham, the to Phil Evans fired rifle rounds, bisected
on the anchor rope and the "Albatros" at that time, his drive screws
lacking driven away, far from the southwest wind and while a great
height was to some extent skyrocketed.

It was the same soon their horizon vanished.

The fugitives had now nothing to fear. How could Robur return to the island , since its screws
were three to four hours, yet unable to perform their functions?

After this time, but had to destroyed by the explosion, "albatross" for the wretched at sea have become
driving wreck, and those who wore it, were certainly only in pieces of torn bodies, also the
Ocean could not publish again.

The terrible Racheact then had to be completely successful. Since Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans
considered to be in a position of self-defense, they suffered because of this fact at no remorse.

Phil
Evans had been violated by the "Albatross" from expatriated ball
slightly.

All Three traveled therefore up the shore, hoping to encounter the natives.

This hope was not to be deceived. About fifty half-wild, the fishing Inhabitants settled on
the west coast of Chatham. They had come down the Aeronef to the island and see the refugees
were preparing a reception as it earned him as supernatural beings.
They adored her, it was missing at least not much, and brought them
into the largest and most beautiful Hut under. Frycollin was certainly
never again such an opportunity, the role of God of blacks to play.

Like
them, subject saw Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans, the Aeronef not return,
and had to conclude that the terrible catastrophe have occurred at
high altitude am. Now, no one would hear again speak of the engineer
Robur, the least of his wonderful machine that had previously carried
his people with him.

Now it was only to wait for an opportunity to
return to America, for the island Chatam is visited by sailors little.
Thus passed the whole month of August and the refugees stored even
before the question of whether they end up not merely a prison for
another had exchanged with the way Frycollin far better than the "prison
in the Air, "seemed to find. Yet in heavenly marriages there is no predominance;
for the will of the wife is also the husband's will, and the understanding of the husband is
also the wife's understanding, since each loves to will and to think like the other, that is
mutually and reciprocally. Thus are they conjoined into one. This conjunction is actual conjunction,
for the will of the wife enters into the understanding of the husband, and the understanding
of the husband into the will of the wife, and this especially when they look into one another's
faces; for, as has been repeatedly said above, there is in the heavens a sharing of thoughts
and affections, more especially with husband and wife, because they reciprocally love each
other. This makes clear what the conjunction of minds is that makes marriage and produces marriage
love in the heavens, namely, that one wishes what is his own to be the others, and this reciprocally.

370. I have been told by angels that so far as a married pair are so conjoined they are in
marriage love, and also to the same extent in intelligence, wisdom and happiness, because Divine
truth and Divine good which are the source of all intelligence, wisdom, and happiness, flow
chiefly into marriage love; consequently marriage love, since it is also the marriage of good
and truth, is the very plane of Divine influx. For that love, as it is a conjunction of the
understanding and will, is also a conjunction of truth and good, since the understanding receives
Divine truth and is formed out of truths, and the will receives Divine good and is formed out
of goods. It is the arrogant illusion when we seem to us zapplige raised about this, vielbegehrliche
Brut, because if we just roll over, we are in most cases, the Our children's children, if not
worse, a fool. Conjunction of truth and good is what makes an angel; it makes his intelligence,
wisdom, and happiness; for an angel is an angel accordingly as good in him is conjoined with
truth and truth with good; or what is the same, accordingly as love in him is conjoined with
faith and faith with love.

371. The Divine that goes forth from the Lord flows chiefly into marriage love because marriage
love descends from a conjunction of good and truth; for it is the same thing as has been said
above, whether you say conjunction of understanding and will or conjunction of good and truth.
Conjunction of good and truth has its origin in the Lord's Divine love towards all who are
in heaven and on earth. From Divine love Divine good goes forth, and Divine good is received
by angels and men in Divine truths. As truth is the sole receptacle of good nothing can be
received from the Lord and from heaven by any one who is not in truths; therefore just to the
extent that the truths in man are conjoined to good is man conjoined to the Lord and to heaven.
This, then, is the very origin of marriage love, and for this reason that love is the very
plane of Divine influx. This shows why the conjunction of good and truth in heaven is called
the heavenly marriage, and heaven is likened in the Word to a marriage, and is called a marriage;
and the Lord is called the "Bridegroom" and "Husband," and heaven and also the church are called
the "bride" and the "wife."{1}

  {Footnote 1} The origin, cause, and essence of true marriage
  love is the marriage of good and truth; thus it is from heaven
  (n. 2728, 2729). Respecting angelic spirit, who have a
  perception whether there is anything of marriage from the idea
  of a conjunction of good and truth (n. 10756). It is with
  marriage love in every respect the same as it is with the
  conjunction of good and truth (n. 1904, 2173, 2429, 2508, 3101,
  3102, 3155, 3179, 3180, 4358, 5807, 5835, 9206, 9495, 9637). Only those that are in good and truth from
  the Lord know what true marriage love is (n. 10171). In the
  Word "marriage" signifies the marriage of good and truth (n.
  3132, 4434, 4835). The kingdom of the Lord and heaven are in
  true marriage love (n. 2737).

372. Good and truth conjoined in an angel or a man are not two but
one, since good is then good of truth and truth is truth of good.
This conjunction may be likened to a man's thinking what he wills and
willing what he thinks, when the thought and will make one, that is,
one mind; for thought forms, that is, presents in form that which the
will wills, and the will gives delight to it; and this is why a
married pair in heaven are not called two, but one angel. Not all
     can receive this word but they to whom it is given (Matt.
     19:4-6, 11; Mark 10:6-9; Gen. 2:24).

This is a description both of the heavenly marriage in which the angels are and of the marriage
of good and truth, "man's not putting asunder what God has joined together" meaning that good
is not to be separated from truth.

373. From all this the origin of true marriage love is made clear, namely, that it is formed
first in the minds of those who are in marriage, and descends therefrom and is derived into
the body, where it is perceived and felt as love; for whatever is felt and perceived in the
body has its origin in the spiritual, because it is from the understanding and the will. The
understanding and the will constitute the spiritual man. Whatever descends from the spiritual
man into the body presents itself there under another aspect, although it is similar and accordant,
like soul and body, and like cause and effect; as can be seen from what has been said and shown
in the two chapters on Correspondences.

374. I heard an angel describing true marriage love and its heavenly delights in this manner:
That it is the Lord's Divine in the heavens, which is Divine good and Divine truth so united
in two persons, that they are not as two but as one. He said that in heaven the two consorts
are marriage love, since everyone is his own good and his own truth in respect both to mind
and to body, the body being an image of the mind because it is formed after its likeness. From
this he drew the conclusion that the Divine is imaged in the two that are in true marriage
love; and as the Divine is so imaged so is heaven, because the entire heaven is Divine good
and Divine truth going forth from the Lord; and this is why all things of heaven are inscribed
on marriage love with more blessings and delights than it is possible to number. He expressed
the number by a term that involved myriads of myriads. He wondered that the man of the church
should know nothing about this, seeing that the church is the Lord's heaven on the earth, and
heaven is a marriage of good and truth. He said he was astounded to think that within the church,
even more than outside of it, adulteries are committed and even justified; the delight of which
in itself is nothing else in a spiritual sense, and consequently in the spiritual world, than
the delight of the love of falsity conjoined to evil, which delight is infernal delight, because
it is the direct opposite of the delight of heaven, which is the delight of the love of truth
conjoined with good.

375. Everyone knows that a married pair who love each other are interiorly united, and that
the essential of marriage is the union of dispositions and minds. And from this it can be seen
that such as their essential dispositions or minds are, such is their union and such their
love for each other. The mind is formed solely out of truths and goods, for all things in the
universe have relation to good and truth and to their conjunction; consequently such as the
truths and goods are out of which the minds are formed, exactly such is the union of minds;
and consequently the most perfect union is the union of minds that are formed out of genuine
truths and goods. Let it be known that no two things mutually love each other more than truth
and good do; and therefore it is from that love that true marriage love descends.{1} Falsity
and evil also love each other, but this love is afterwards changed into hell.

  {Footnote 1} All things in the universe, both in heaven and in
  the world, have relation to good and truth (n. 2452, 3166,
  4390, 4409, 5232, 7256, 10122). And to the conjunction of these
  (n. 10555). Between good and truth there is marriage (n. 1904,
  2173, 2508). Good loves truth, and from love longs for truth
  and for the conjunction of truth with itself, and from this
  they are in a perpetual endeavor to be conjoined (n. 9206,
  9207, 9495). The life of truth is from good (n. 1589, 1997,
  2572, 4070, 4096, 4097, 4736, 4757, 4884, 5147, 9667). 

Finally, on 3 September appeared a ship to take water from the Chatham Island. The Reader has
at least not forget that Uncle Prudent at the time of the kidnapping of Philadelphia several thousand
dollars of paper money brought with them, ie more than was necessary in order to return to
America. After her admirers, which they always the greatest Respect had proved sincere thanks to
uncle sailed Prudent, Phil Evans and Frycollin Aukland by one. Their fates after they told nothing,
and two days have arrived them to the capital in New Zealand.

Here they picked up a packet of the Pacific as passengers, and 20 September landed the survivors of
the "albatross" for the highest happier crossing in San Francisco. They had either expressed who
they were, nor where they came: but since they have a pretty decent Price paid for their seats,
it would have occurred to any American captain ever to address other questions to the people.

In San Francisco took advantage of Uncle Prudent, his colleague and servant of the first Frycollin
Train of the great Pacific Railway, and met on 27 safely in Philadelphia.

This is the concise report of all that since the escape of the refugees and their Departure from
the island of Chatham had happened, and thus could that evening, the Chairman and the secretary,
in the midst of a vast throng, their places in the Weldon Institute
again .

Taking

Never, however, neither the one nor the other is such an incredible peace had worn for show.
Their sight alone would have guessed never let that from since that
memorable sitting 12 June something special had happened.

This three and a half months seemed in their Life does not count.

After the first greeting volleys who accepted both without which only
the twitching of a facial muscle, Uncle Prudent covered his head and
he took the floor first.

"Honorable citizen, he said, the session is opened."

Insane, and certainly well justified applause, because if it as something extraordinary could
not apply that such a meeting was weeks, then was the fact but an
extraordinary weight that the by Uncle Prudent, assisted by Phil Evans
happened.

The chairman was in the cheers and clapping of hands announced his enthusiasm calmly let off
steam. Then he continued:

"In our last meeting, my Lord, there was quite a lively exchange of
views (Hear Hear!) Between the representatives of the front and the
back screw for our balloon, the "Go a head.

" (Signs of astonishment.) We have been an expedient invented to
to bring the front and back taxes under a hat, and that is simply
this: We provided just the two ends of the boat, each with a driving
screw.

"(silence before general Astonishment.)

That was all!

Yes, Everything, from the kidnapping of the chairman and the secretary
of the Weldon Institute was not a single word, no word on the engineer
Robur and the "Albatross", a word about the way in which the prisoners
had managed to escape, and finally a word about the fate of the Aeronef
if he can still float through the air and sea whether further attacks
to fear against members of the club would be.

Certainly it lacked the Ballonisten not feel like Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans question, she looked
the same but so serious, so buttoned up, it seemed appropriate to
their reluctance to .

Respectable Irishmen If they pass the time came to speak said they would speak alone and all would
be enough to feel honored to listen to them.

Besides, in this silence could be still hiding a secret that today could not be revealed.

Then took Uncle Prudent under a hitherto unheard-of in the meetings
of the Weldon Institute Silence the floor again.

"Gentlemen, he said, it is not necessary to us now just yet, the aerostat" Go a head, "the determined
is to conquer the sea air, quickly lead to the nearing completion. - The meeting is closed. "

XVIII.

What
this true story will end without them quit.

On 29 April the following year, seven months after the so-unexpected
return of Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans, was very lively movement in
Philadelphia.

To negotiated political issues this is not, nor to elections or public meetings. The instigation
of the Weldon Institute now completed Aerostat "Go a head," was finally
to his natural element be passed.

As Aeronaut for the same was the famous Harry W. Tinder, of which we already at the beginning of
this Story mentioned, has been appointed, and he had one more added
to an experienced assistant.

The passengers were the chairman and the secretary of the Weldon Institute, where this Certainly
honor above all others came up because it had become for them to say such a mission in life, personally
against any apparatus, upon the principle "Serious as the air" was based, opposition to be
raised.

But even now, after seven months, they should still only start on their adventure to report. Even
Frycollin had, as much as it urged him to not by the engineer Robur and his wonderful machine
spoken.

Apparently wanted Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans inveterate and incorrigible Ballonisten at all,
that from the Aeronef or any other flying machine ever, the speech was. Even if their balloon,
the "Go a head," not top the list of the to be moved through the air specific equipment should take, they
would still not, arising from any supporters of the Aviation Invention
can be applied here.

They believed and still wanted to believe and later only that the only true vehicle for the
Aerostat is atmospheric, and that he is only the future belong.

Besides, even one who existed on which they so terrible, it considers
only just revenge had taken, now long gone.

None of those he wore, had to survive its demise. The mystery of the "Albatross" was now in the
unfathomable Depths of the Pacific buried.

The assumption that the engineer Robur a refuge, an island in the
enormous saving, abandoned Ocean have found, appeared only as a very
daring hypothesis.

The two colleagues reserving for later a decision on whether it appears appropriate to this to cause
the direction of special investigations.

One step at last to the great experiment that the Weldon Institute for so long and had prepared
with such care. The "Go a head," was the most perfect type of that what was in the areas of
aerostatics yet invented - the same as the "Inflexible" and the "Formidable" (two recent French
armored battle ships) in the art of shipbuilding.

The "Go a head," had all the aerostat only for a more desirable properties. Its volume allowed him to
ascend to the greatest heights that can reach a balloon only; its impermeability to gas, there
indefinitely to get into the air, its strength, any expansion of the gases to resist, just as
the heaviest rain and strongest Storm winds, and his capacity to develop a sufficient buoyant force to other
than the take other requisite accessories to an electric machine, the one his propellers, each has
achieved superior blowing power could give.

The "Go a head," had an elongated Form to facilitate the horizontal movement. His car, one of
those Balloons of the Captains Renard and Krebs-like platform containing everything necessary for
Airship Implements and tools, physical tools, ropes, anchors, rollers,
etc, also Appliances, batteries and accumulators, which supplied its
mechanical strength.

This gondola carried forward a screw and screw the back next to a like a rudder. In all likelihood
However, after the work had to power the machines of the "Go a head," significantly behind the apparatus
of the "Albatros" left behind.

The "Go a head," was placed after the completion of filling of the forest in nakedness Fairmont Park
been located that is exactly in the same spot where earlier the Aeronef few hours had.

We need hardly stress that the buoyant force him through the lightest
of all gases had been awarded.

Ordinary coal gas per cubic meter developed just such a lifting force equal to 700 grams - which
is contrary to the surrounding air only insignificant difference
in weight represents.

The hydrogen gas on the other hand has the same volume one to about 1100 grams to be estimated
increase power. Such, in such manner and in the special apparatus of the famous Henry Giffard
represented pure hydrogen gas filled the enormous balloon. Since the "Go a head "now had a capacity
of 40,000 cubic meter, it corresponded to the rising power of his Gas is a weight of 1100 grams
40,000 or 44,000 kilograms.

On the morning of the 20th April everything was ready. At eleven clock has fluctuated a few
huge Aerostat Feet above the ground and ready to rise into the air, majestically to and fro.

There
was a magnificent and as for this experiment specially-made weather.

Maybe would be a little more wind force was desirable, since they show the test more had designed.
One has ever doubted that, after a balloon across a quiet air freely could be steered, in a
moving atmosphere, but that is another thing, and only under such Conditions such samples should be run.

Enough,
now was not to feel the wind, yet pointed something out that these occur would. In that day
sent from North America's inexhaustible supply of exception no storm on western Europe, and never
had one day less than this for Making of such aeronautical experiment can be chosen.

We hardly need the huge, in Fairmont Park pent-up crowd, nor to mention the many trains which
streams of curious people from all neighbors poured over Philadelphia had, not even the suspension
of any industrial and commerciellen Activity, which is all - leaders, officials, artisans,
men and women, old men and Children Congreßmitgliedern, representatives of the armed forces,
magistrates, reporters, white and black natives who had gathered at the forest clearing - allowed,
witness this spectacle. Or should the noisy confusion of these waves Crowds describe the unexpected
movements, the sudden pressure and the shout and shouts of the mob?

Are we the Hipp! Hipp! Hipp! , Which count equally from all sides the crack of fireworks were heard
when Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans on with the American stars and stripes decorated platform
appeared? Or we would have it first particularly say that the greatest part of this curious was
perhaps not come to see the "Go a head," but in order to consider the two extraordinary men
around which the world envied the old New?

Why only two and not three? Why not Frycollin? - This was because Frycollin the journey with
the "Albatros" deemed sufficient for his fame as he and the honor to accompany his master had refused
modest. It was therefore no part of the great Cheers, which received the chairman and the
secretary of the Weldon Institute.

It goes without saying that all members of the famous company on
the no was missing for this reservirten place within the poles and
lines, making a portion of the Exposure: area.

Here were Truk Milnor, Bat T. Fyn, William T. Forbes, his two Daughters,
Miss Doll and Miss Mat led to the poor.

All were released to their presence to reiterate that nothing was
ever able to followers of the "lighter than air" to separate.

About eleven clock twenty minutes a cannon shot announced the completion of the final preparations.

The
"Go a head," expected, only the signal to rise.

A second cannon shot thundered at eleven clock twenty-five.

The Bank has held its reins "Go a head," rose about fifteen feet above
the clearing.

At the other end of the platform upright, put Uncle Prudent and Phil
Evans, the left hand on the chest, which should mean that the audiences
of a heart would.

Then they stretched out their right hand to the zenith, to suggest that most, now known to balloon
finally stand in concept, supernatural possession of his kingdom
to take.

As hundreds of thousands of laid hands on hundreds of thousands of breasts, and a hundred thousand
other applicable to the sky.

At eleven clock dreißig crashed a third gun.

"Everything going on!" said Uncle Prudent, use the traditional phrase.

And "Go a head," rose "majestic" - the adjective always used in the
description beginning of air travel.

In fact, it was a magnificent spectacle! It would have meant to see a seagoing vessel, the just
ran from the stack. And this was not a ship that was discharged into the sea air?

The "Go a head," just lothrecht rose into the air - proof of the perfect peace of the Atmosphere
- and stopped about two hundred and fifty feet above the ground.

Here is the demonstration of the journey began in horizontally direction.

The

two screws driven by its "Go a head," moved with the speed of ten
meters meet in the second of the sun.

This is the speed of the whale in the open water. It is not also wrong to compare those with the aforementioned
giants of the northern seas, especially as he had the form of that
cetaceans.

A new volley of cheers penetrated up to the skilful aeronaut.

Then
the "Go conducted a head" under the effect of his steering wheel all
kinds of circular, skew and linear motions, which he aufnöthigte the
hand of his tax man. He turned in close circles, went forward to,
to back to even the toughest opponents of the tractability of balloons
to teach a lesson ... if any enemies were here! And if there had been
like, had they been cut into the pan!

Why was not accompanied by
the wind this beautiful experiments? That was unfortunate. Unquestionable
would have the "Go a head," followed all the movements without hesitation,
either by an oblique Direction cheated like a ship that sailed close
to the wind, or the air flow equal to against a steamer drove straight.

At
this moment the aerostat rose higher up to a few hundred meters.

One
can understand well the intention. Uncle Prudent and his companion
looked at the higher layers of air to find a flow in order to complete
the test. There were certain spirits who, from a practice acquired in the life of the body, infested
me with peculiar craftiness, and this by a very gentle wave-like influx like the usual influx
of well disposed spirits; but I perceived that there was craftiness and other like evils in
them prompting them to ensnare and deceive. Finally, I talked with one of them who, I was told,
had been when he lived in the world the leader of an army; and perceiving that there was a
lustfulness in the ideas of his thought I talked with him about marriage, using spiritual speech
with representatives, which fully expresses all that is meant and many things in a moment.
He said that in the life of the body he had regarded adulteries as of no account. But I was
permitted to tell him that adulteries are heinous, although to those like himself they do not
appear to be such, and even appear permissible, on account of their seductive and enticing
delights. That they are heinous he might know from the fact that marriages are the seminaries
of the human race, and thus also the seminaries of the heavenly kingdom; consequently they
must on no account be violated, but must be esteemed holy. This he might know from the fact,
which he ought to know because of his being in the other life and in a state of perception,
that marriage love descends from the Lord through heaven, and from that love, as from a parent,
mutual love, which is the foundation of heaven is derived; and again from this, that if adulterers
merely draw near to heavenly societies they perceive their own stench and cast themselves down
therefrom towards hell. At least he must have known that to violate marriages is contrary to
Divine laws, and contrary to the civil laws of all kingdoms, also contrary to the genuine light
of reason, because it is contrary to both Divine and human order; not to mention other considerations.
But he replied that he had not so thought in the life of the body. He wished to reason about
whether it were so, but was told that truth does not admit of such reasonings; for reasonings
defend what one delights in, and thus one's evils and falsities; that he ought first to think
about the things that had been said because they are truths; or at least think about them from
the principle well known in the world, that no one should do to another what he is unwilling
that another should do to him; thus he should consider whether he himself would not have detested
adulteries if any one had in that way deceived his wife, whom he had loved as everyone loves
in the first period of marriage, and if in his state of wrath he had expressed himself on the
subject; also whether being a man of talent he would not in that case have confirmed himself
more decidedly than others against adulteries, even condemning them to hell.

386. I have been shown how the delights of marriage love advance towards heaven, and the delights
of adultery towards hell. The advance of the delights of marriage love towards heaven is into
states of blessedness and happiness continually increasing until they become innumerable and
ineffable, and the more interiorly they advance the more innumerable and more ineffable they
become, until they reach the very states of blessedness and happiness of the inmost heaven,
or of the heaven of innocence, and this through the most perfect freedom; for all freedom is
from love, thus the most perfect freedom is from marriage love, which is heavenly love itself.
On the other hand, the advance of adultery is towards hell, and by degrees to the lowest hell,
where there is nothing but what is direful and horrible. Such a lot awaits adulterers after
their life in the world, those being meant by adulterers who feel a delight in adulteries,
and no delight in marriages.

387. XLI. THE EMPLOYMENTS OF ANGELS IN HEAVEN.

It is impossible to enumerate the employments in the heavens, still
less to describe them in detail, but something may be said about them
in a general way; for they are numberless, and vary in accordance
with the functions of the societies. Each society has its peculiar
function, for as societies are distinct in accordance with goods (see
above, n. 41), so they are distinct in accordance with uses, because
with all in the heavens goods are goods in act, which are uses. In the other life all must perform uses (n.
  1103); even the wicked and infernal, but in what manner (n.
  696). All are such as are the uses they perform (n. 4054,
  6815); illustrated (n. 7038). Angelic blessedness consists in
  the goods of charity, that is, in performing uses (n. 454).

388. In the heavens as on the earth there are many forms of service, for there are ecclesiastical
affairs, there are civil affairs, and there are domestic affairs. That there are ecclesiastical
affairs is evident from what has been said and shown above, where Divine worship is treated
of (n. 221-227); civil affairs, where governments in heaven are treated of (n. 213-220); and
domestic affairs, where the dwellings and homes of angels are treated of (n. 183-190); and
marriages in heaven (n. 366-368); all of which show that in every heavenly society there are
many employments and services.

389. All things in the heavens are organized in accordance with Divine order, which is everywhere
guarded by the services performed by angels, those things that pertain to the general good
or use by the wiser angels, those that pertain to particular uses by the less wise, and so
on. They are subordinated just as uses are subordinated in the Divine order; and for this reason
a dignity is connected with every function according to the dignity of the use. Nevertheless,
an angel does not claim dignity to himself, but ascribes all dignity to the use; and as the
use is the good that he accomplishes, and all good is from the Lord, so he ascribes all dignity
to the Lord. Therefore he that thinks of honor for himself and subsequently for the use, and
not for the use and subsequently for himself, can perform no function in heaven, because this
is looking away backwards from the Lord, and putting self in the first place and use in the
second. When use is spoken of the Lord also is meant, because, as has just been said, use is
good, and good is from the Lord.

390. From this it may be inferred what subordinations in the heavens are, namely, that as any
one loves, esteems, and honors the use he also loves, esteems, and honors the person with whom
the use is connected; also that the person is loved, esteemed and honored in the measure in
which he ascribes the use to the Lord and not to himself; for to that extent he is wise, and
the uses he performs he performs from good. Spiritual love, esteem, and honor are nothing else
than the love, esteem, and honor of the use in the person, together with the honor to the person
because of the use, and not honor to the use because of the person. This is the way, moreover,
in which men are regarded when they are regarded from spiritual truth, for one man is then
seen to be like another, whether he be in great or in little dignity, the only perceptible
difference being a difference in wisdom; and wisdom is loving use, that is, loving the good
of a fellow citizen, of society, of one's country, and of the church. It is this that constitutes
love to the Lord, because every good that is a good of use is from the Lord; and it constitutes
also love towards the neighbor, because the neighbor means the good that is to be loved in
a fellow citizen, in society, in one's country, and in the church, and that is to be done in
their behalf.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Loving the neighbor is not loving the person, but
  loving that which is in him and which constitutes him (n. 5025,
  10336). Those who love the person, and not that which is in
  him, and which constitutes him, love equally an evil man and a
  good man (n. 3820); and do good alike to the evil and to the
  good; and yet to do good to the evil is to do evil to the good
  and that is not loving the neighbor (n. 3820, 6703, 8120). The
  judge who punishes the evil that they may be reformed, and may
  not contaminate or injure the good, loves his neighbor (n.
  3820, 8120, 8121). Every individual and every community also
  one's country and the church, and in the most general sense the
  kingdom of the Lord, are the neighbor, and to do good to these
  from a love of good in accord with the quality of their state,
  is loving the neighbor; that is, the neighbor is their good,
  which is to be consulted (n. 6818-6824, 8123).

391. As all the societies in the heavens are distinct in accordance with their goods (as said
above, n. 41, seq.) so they are distinct in accordance with their uses, goods being goods in
act, that is, goods of charity which are uses. Some societies are employed in taking care of
little children; others in teaching and training them as they grow up; others in teaching and
training in like manner the boys and girls that have acquired a good disposition from their
education in the world, and in consequence have come into heaven. There are other societies
that teach the simple good from the Christian world, and lead them into the way to heaven;
there are others that in like manner teach and lead the various heathen nations. There are
some societies that defend from infestations by evil spirits the newly arrived spirits that
have just come from the world; there are some that attend upon the spirits that are in the
lower earth; also some that attend upon spirits that are in the hells, and restrain them from
tormenting each other beyond prescribed limits; and there are some that attend upon those who
are being raised from the dead. In general, angels from each society are sent to men to watch
over them and to lead them away from evil affections and consequent thoughts, and to inspire
them with good affections so far as they will receive them in freedom; and by means of these
they also direct the deeds or works of men by removing as far as possible evil intentions.
When angels are with men they dwell as it were in their affections; and they are near to man
just in the degree in which he is in good from truths, and are distant from him just in the
degree in which his life is distant from good.{1} But all these employments of angels are employments
of the Lord through the angels, for the angels perform them from the Lord and not from themselves.
For this reason, in the Word in its internal sense "angels" mean, not angels, but something
belonging to the Lord; and for the same reason angels are called "gods" in the Word.{2}

  {Footnote 1} Of the angels that are with little children and
  afterwards with boys, and thus in succession (n. 2303). Man is
  raised from the dead by means of angels; from experiences (n.
  168-189). Angels are sent to those who are in hell to prevent
  their tormenting each other beyond measure (n. 967). Of the
  services rendered by the angels to men on their coming into the
  other life (n. 2131). There are spirits and angels with all men
  and man is led by the Lord by means of spirits and angels (n.
  50, 697, 2796, 2887, 2888, 5846-5866, 5976-5993, 6209). Angels
  have dominion over evil spirits (n. 1755).

  {Footnote 2} In the Word by angels something Divine from the
  Lord is signified (n. 1925, 2821, 3039, 4085, 6280, 8192). In
  the Word angels are called "gods," because of their reception
  of Divine truth and good from the Lord (n. 4295, 4402, 8192,
  8301).

392. These employments of the angels are their general employments; but each one has his particular
charge; for every general use is composed of innumerable uses which are called mediate, ministering,
and subservient uses, all and each coordinated and subordinated in accordance with Divine order,
and taken together constituting and perfecting the general use, which is the general good.

393. Those are concerned with ecclesiastical affairs in heaven who in the world loved the Word
and eagerly sought in it for truths, not with honor or gain as an end, but uses of life both
for themselves and for others. These in heaven are in enlightenment and in the light of wisdom
in the measure of their love and desire for use; and this light of wisdom they receive from
the Word in heaven, which is not a natural Word, as it is in the world, but a spiritual Word
(see above, n. 259.) These minister in the preaching office; and in accordance with Divine
order those are in higher positions who from enlightenment excel others in wisdom. [2] Those
are concerned with civil affairs who in the world loved their country, and loved its general
good more than their own, and did what is just and right from a love for what is just and right.
So far as these from the eagerness of love have investigated the laws of justice and have thereby
become intelligent, they have the ability to perform such functions in heaven, and they perform
these in that position or degree that accords with their intelligence, their intelligence being
in equal degree with their love of use for the general good. [3] Furthermore, there are in
heaven more functions and services and occupations than can be enumerated; while in the world
there are few in comparison. But however many there may be that are so employed, they are all
in the delight of their work and labor from a love of use, and no one from a love of self or
of gain; and as all the necessaries of life are furnished them gratuitously they have no love
of gain for the sake of a living. They are housed gratuitously, clothed gratuitously, and fed
gratuitously. Evidently, then, those that have loved themselves and the world more than use
have no lot in heaven; for his love or affection remains with everyone after his life in the
world, and is not extirpated to eternity (see above, n. 563).

394. In heaven everyone comes into his own occupation in accordance with correspondence, and
the correspondence is not with the occupation but with the use of each occupation (see above,
n. 112); for there is a correspondence of all things (see n. 106). A system of internal balloons according
to the swim bladder of fish, in which one pump means a certain amount Gas could push allowed
him namely, climb up and down. Without ever Ballast eject to higher, or lose gas to go deeper,
he was able, after Discretion of the airship to lift in the atmosphere or lower. He was also
but provided at the top of a skull with a valve in the event that he once very quickly go down
would be forced. Here, therefore, only already known means were provided for this case by highest degree
of perfection developed.

The "Go a head," got up in lothrechter line. reduced by optical effect, its dimensions gradually
from view. Usually it seems rather odd to the audience, who, breaking up just to see, almost
the cervical vertebrae. The tremendous Whale has been gradually on the guinea pig in order to
finally up to the size of normal Gudgeon sinking.

Since the upward movement was not interrupted, reached the "Go a head" in height of four thousand
meters, but remained in the pure, containing no trace of haze heaven perfectly clear visible.

However,
he kept constantly on the clearing, as if he were there by diverging
Leinen noted.

And if a giant bell would have been thrown over the neighborhood, had the air of which can
not be quiet. Neither in that nor in any other Height stirred the slightest touch. Greatly reduced
by the distance, as if he was would have seen through a reversed telescope held, maneuvered the
Aerostat, without the to find least resistance.

Suddenly a cry came from the crowd, a cry, which was followed immediately
a hundred thousand others.

All arms were based on a point on the horizon, although occasionally the northwest.

There in the deep azure a moving body is released, which gradually gets closer and larger is. Is
it a bird that floats with powerful wing stroke by the highest layers of the atmosphere? Is it a
ball of fire, whose track the atmosphere obliquely cuts? In any case, is the mysterious phenomenon
a significant speed own, and must soon the astonished crowd cascade across.

A suspect, who imparts all the brains, as it electrically, spreads over the entire clearing.

However,
it seems as if even the "Go a head," would have noticed the strange
object.

Apparently he felt a sense of impending danger, for suddenly increases its speed and he fled to the
east.

Yes, the amount of all has understood. A fully retrieved from one of the members of the Weldon Institute
Name is repeated by two hundred thousand lips: "The 'Albatross' ... The 'Albatross'!"

In fact, it is the "Albatros" is. Robur is the one who appears in
the heights of heaven again!

It is he who rushes like a giant bird of prey to the "Go a head!"

And nine months earlier, was blown up by the explosion Aeronef, the screws broke and the roof was torn into
two pieces, but not destroyed. Without the wonderful calm the engineer who changed the rotation
of the front propeller, and that as a screw lift could contribute, would be the entire crew
of the "Albatros" already by the rapidity of the fall been stifled.

But even if they escaped this danger happy as it was that they was not drowned in the waters of
the Pacific Ocean?

This was because the ruins of the hood, the wing of the drive screw, the walls of Ruffs and what
else do the "Albatross" was left, had turned him into a floating
Seetrift.

The wounded bird had fallen into the water, but it still kept its wings on the waves. For some
hours, Robur and his men were still on the wreck, then they fled in the Ocean on the recovered
rubber boot.

Providence, for those who believe in divine intervention in earthly things - The chance for those
who have the weakness to believe in no providence - came to the aid of the shipwrecked.

A few hours after sunrise, they were seen by a ship not only Robur and his people, but also about
the floating debris of Aeronef recorded.

The engineer content with the claim that his vehicle had been destroyed by a collision, and
his Incognito has been maintained on this occasion.

That was an English three-masted ship, the "Two Friends" of Liverpool. It sailed to Melbourne, where
it arrived a few days.

Now you could see it in Australia, but very far from the island of X, but as soon as possible
after you had to return.

Under the rubble of the rear Ruff had the engineer still a considerable sum of money found him,
just to mention one without the other, denying all the needs of its people allowed. Shortly after
arriving in Melbourne he bought a small schooner of one hundred tons and on this went to Robur,
who was also an able seaman, returned to the island X.

Now filled
him only a single fixed idea - to take revenge.

But to do that, had a second "albatross" to be built, which for those who had constructed
the first, yes was an easy task. It was used here, which still appeared from the old Aeronef useful in other
parts of machinery and the propeller, with all the debris on the
schooner had been loaded.

The mechanism by means of new batteries and accumulators back repaired. In short, within less
than eight months, all the work finished and a new "Albatros", regardless of the destroyed
by the explosion and just as powerful as this, was ready to sail through the air.

Of course, he also wore the same team and just as natural foaming this man stick with rage
on Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans in particular, how the whole Weldon Institute in general.

With the first days of April left the "Albatros" Island X. During this aircraft Suspension should
be coming from any point on Earth can be reported. Sun floated He always toward the clouds. reached
over North America to a remote area of ​​the Far-West He went to the ground. Incognito preserving
the deepest, the engineer was told here what it the largest Had to
give pleasure: that the Weldon Institute was so far now, with its
sea trials to start, and that the "Go a head," Uncle Prudent and Phil
Evans on 29 April from Philadelphia should rise from.

What a wonderful opportunity for the cooling of that vengeance which
the Robur's heart and all its People met!

A terrible revenge which the "Go a head," should not escape! A public vengeance, who are the
superiority of Aeronef the aerostat and all the equipment had to prove that!

For this reason, therefore, appeared in that day, like the vulture, from a dizzy height shoot down,
the Aeronef of the Fairmont Park.

Yes, the "Albatros" was easily detected even by those who had formerly seen him before.

The "Go a head," still fled.

He realized, however, that he carried a flight in the horizontal Direction by virtue of never escape.
So he tried his luck in a vertical flight, but not approaching the earth, for as the Aeronef
could have him move the way but as he rose into the air, according to a zone in which he might
not attacked could be. That was very bold, but traded at the same time very logical.

Meanwhile, rising but also the "Albatross" with him.

Far smaller than the "Go a head," was like He swordfish in the pursuit of the whale, he pierced
his spine, or the on the battleship zufliegenden torpedo to blow up the one with a single blow in
the air endeavors.

The audience noticed with the oppressive fear. Within a few moments had the Aerostat a height of
five thousand meters achieved. The "Albatross" had him in his rising Movement followed. He
pranced around its sides, and now, as it circled it in constantly
reduced scale.

With a leap he could destroy him by his thin shell tore. Uncle Prudent and his companion were
shattered by a purely terrible crash been.

The silent with shock and were struggling for breath viewers of the kind horror packed, which constricts
the chest and paralyzed the feet when you fall down a high altitude
sees.

Now threatened an air battle, a battle that not even the bleak prospects
for Rescue like a water fight offered - the first of its kind, but
certainly not the last, for progress is one of the iron laws of this
world.

And if the "Go a head" in his Side, the Stars and Stripes was, so had the "Albatros" and its flag,
the black cloth banner with the golden sun Robur the conqueror unfolds.

The "Go a head," was looking to get out of the reach of his opponent,
as he still further raised.

He threw the ballast carried out as a reserve. Once again he made a Rate of a thousand meters,
and now appeared only as a point in the sky. The "Albatros" it lags with the maximum rotating speed of
its screws, was already completely invisible become.

Suddenly rose from the earth a cry of alarm.

The "Go a head," was visibly in size again, while also lowering with him Aeronef appeared on
anew. Now the fall was there! The strongly in the tremendous amount extended Gas had blown up the
sleeve of the balloon is inflated, and only half of these fell rapidly down.

Aeronef the other hand, only the movement of its buoyancy screws had moderately decreased, with
metered rate down.

He drove up to the "Go a head," as these only twelve hundred Feet away from the earth, and approached
him on board on board.

Robur wanted to give him the coup de grace? - No, he wanted to help, wanted to rescue the occupants!

His
Manövrirgeschicklichkeit was so amazing that the aeronaut and his comrade could reach the top
of the Aeronef.

If Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans reject as support Robur's, refuse to to have to save themselves from
him? They would have truly been able!

The people of the engineer However, they took possession of them,
and managed by force of the "Go a head," according to the "Albatros".

Since the Aeronef made it clear from that and stayed in the same place, while the now completely empty
gas balloon on the trees beside the clearing fell down where he, like a giant Scraps stuck.

Below there was the silence of death, it really seemed as if all life from the heart the crowd had fled.
Very many people had the same eyes closed to the end of the disaster not to watch.

Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans were thus again become the prisoners of the engineer Robur. Should
he, now he recovered, will fly with them again into the sea of ​​air,
whereas Nobody could follow him?

This was to suspect you.

Meanwhile lowered the "Albatros", instead of rising higher, slowly to the ground. It was believed
he wanted to go to the countryside, and the crowd pressed in to him to make room apart.

The excitement of the people had now reached the highest level.

Two meters above the ground was the "Albatros", and was under the deepest secrecy hear the voice of
the engineer:

"Citizens of the United States, he said, the chairman and the secretary of the Weldon Institute
are again in my power. I held them back, I would just about my rights
Make use of retaliation.

When in her mind by the success of the "Albatros" sparked I see but a passion that her mental state
may nevertheless be such as to the changes, which has to take the control of air to the sea once
to fully understand. Uncle Prudent and Phil Evans, you are free! "

      The chairman, the secretary of the Weldon Institute, the aeronaut
and his assistant had only to do a jump to reach the earth.

The "Albatros" immediately rose by about ten feet above the crowd
and Robur continued:

"Citizens of the United States, my attempt is
made happy, but my view asks to rush anything, not even the progress.

The science may not exceed the Country's customs and habits do not run ahead too much. Mankind
should be gradual, come not through violent alterations forward. I myself would still too early
Occur to unite all opposing and shared interests. The nations are not yet ready for the real league.

"So
I put on and take my secret with me.

For mankind it is therefore should not perish, but hers one day when
it shall be enough, is it to take advantage, and wise enough not to
abuse it.

Hail to you, citizens of the United States, Hail to you, now and forever! "

The air with his seventy-four screws and whipping of the two with
  the greatest force working propellers carried away, disappeared the
"albatross" in the east in the middle of a storm of cheers, which
now gave the general expression of admiration.

  

The two, now as the whole Weldon Institute deeply humbled colleagues
  did the only thing what they could do - they sneaked back to their
homes, while the amount due a sudden change of mind was a good mind,
she now with all attached biting Mock welcomed.

  

* * * * *
  

Now, there still remains the question: "Who is that one is the Robur
  ever know?"

You know it already. Robur is the knowledge and skills
of the future, perhaps the next day - he is the sure treasure in the
lap times to come.

That the "Albatros" still hinschwebe through the
atmosphere, in the midst of his kingdom, No one can make him be in
dispute, no doubt, also the winner is his Robur return according to
promise one day and reveal the secret of an invention which would
reshape the social and political relationship of the earth entirely.

As
for the future of air navigation, so this is the Aeronef, not the
aerostat.

The "albatross" is still reserved to conquer the empire
of the final proof air.

Content.

I. What the learned world, nor
counsel knows how the an unlearned

II in which the members of the
Weldon Institute with each other To argue without coming to an agreement
between 11

III. In which the fury of Uncle Prudent with the square
of Rate increases 144

XII. What the reader in a perhaps deplorable
Uncertainty can be 225

XVII. What the reader by two months back and
also at nine Months forward out 235

XVIII.Welches out this true story
to an end without them quit 252 Furthermore, the delights of each use are innumerable,
and these innumerable delights are likewise various, and yet conjoined in such order that they
mutually regard each other, like the uses of each member, organ, and viscus, in the body, and
still more like the uses of each vessel and fiber in each member, organ and viscus; each and
all of which are so affiliated as to have regard to another's good in their own good, and thus
each in all, and all in each. From this universal and individual aspect they act as one.

  {Footnote 1} One thing consists of various things, and receives
  thereby its form and quality and perfection in accordance with
  the quality of the harmony and concurrence (n. 457, 3241,
  8003). There is an infinite variety and never any one thing the
  same as another (n. 7236, 9002). It is the same in the heavens
  (n. 3744, 4005, 7236, 7833, 7836, 9002). The Lord's Divine love arranges all into a
  heavenly form, and so conjoins them that they are as a single
  man (n. 457, 3986, 5598).

406. I have talked at times with spirits that had recently come from the world about the state
of eternal life, saying that it is important to know who the Lord of the kingdom is, and what
kind and what form of government it has. As nothing is more important for those entering another
kingdom in the world than to know who and what the king is, and what the government is, and
other particulars in regard to the kingdom, so is it of still greater consequence in regard
to this kingdom in which they are to live to eternity. Therefore they should know that it is
the Lord who governs both heaven and the universe, for He who governs the one governs the other;
thus that the kingdom in which they now are is the Lord's; and that the laws of this kingdom
are eternal truths, all of which rest upon the law that the Lord must be loved above all things
and the neighbor as themselves; and even more than this, if they would be like the angels they
must love the neighbor more than themselves. On hearing this they could make no reply, for
the reason that although they had heard in the life of the body something like this they had
not believed it, wondering how there could be such love in heaven, and how it could be possible
for any one to love his neighbor more than himself. But they were told that every good increases
immeasurably in the other life, and that while they cannot go further in the life of the body
than to love the neighbor as themselves, because they are immersed in what concerns the body,
yet when this is set aside their love becomes more pure, and finally becomes angelic, which
is to love the neighbor more than themselves. For in the heavens there is joy in doing good
to another, but no joy in doing good to self unless with a view to its becoming another's,
and thus for another's sake. This is loving the neighbor more than oneself. They were told
that the possibility of such a love is shown in the world in the marriage love of some who
have suffered death to protect a consort from injury, in the love of parents for their children,
as in a mother's preferring to go hungry rather than see her child go hungry; in sincere friendship,
in which one friend will expose himself to danger for another; and even in polite and pretended
friendship that wishes to emulate sincere friendship, in offering the better things to those
to whom it professes to wish well, and bearing such good will on the lips though not in the
heart; finally, in the nature of love, which is such that its joy is to serve others, not for
its own sake but for theirs. But all this was incomprehensible to those who loved themselves
more than others, and in the life of the body had been greedy of gain; most of all to the avaricious.

407. There was one who in the life of the body had exercised power over others, and who had
retained in the other life the desire to rule; but he was told that he was now in another kingdom,
which is eternal, and that his rule on earth had perished, and that he was now where no one
is esteemed except in accordance with his goodness and truth, and that measure of the Lord's
mercy which he enjoyed by virtue of his life in the world; also that the same is true in this
kingdom as on the earth, where men are esteemed for their wealth and for their favor with the
prince, wealth here being good and truth, and favor with the prince the mercy bestowed on man
by the Lord in accordance with his life in the world. Any wish to rule otherwise would make
him a rebel, since he is in another's kingdom. On hearing these things he was ashamed.

408. I have talked with spirits who believed heaven and heavenly joy to consist in their being
great; but such were told that in heaven he that is least is greatest, since he is called least
who has, and wishes to have, no power or wisdom from himself, but only from the Lord, he that
is least in that sense having the greatest happiness, and as he has the greatest happiness,
it follows that he is greatest; for he has thereby from the Lord all power and excels all in
wisdom. What is it to be the greatest unless to be the most happy? For to be the most happy
is what the powerful seek through power and the rich through riches. It was further said that
heaven does not consist in a desire to be least for the purpose of being greatest, for that
would be aspiring and longing to be the greatest; but it consists in desiring from the heart
the good of others more than one's own, and in serving others with a view to their happiness,
not with recompense as an end, but from love.

409. Heavenly joy itself, such as it is in its essence, cannot be described, because it is
in the inmost of the life of angels and therefrom in everything of their thought and affection,
and from this in every particular of their speech and action. It is as if the interiors were
fully opened and unloosed to receive delight and blessedness, which are distributed to every
least fiber and thus through the whole. Thus the perception and sensation of this joy is so
great as to be beyond description, for that which starts from the inmosts flows into every
particular derived from the inmosts, propagating itself away with increase towards the exteriors.
Good spirits who are not yet in that joy, because not yet raised up into heaven, when they
perceive a sense of that joy from an angel from the sphere of his love, are filled with such
delight that they come as it were into a delicious trance. This sometimes happens with those
who desire to know what heavenly joy is.

410. When certain spirits wished to know what heavenly joy is they were allowed to feel it
to such a degree that they could no longer bear it; and yet it was not angelic joy; it was
scarcely in the least degree angelic, as I was permitted to perceive by sharing it, but was
so slight as to be almost frigid; nevertheless they called it most heavenly, because to them
it was an inmost joy. He lives and moves in a loud and fantasies can not help, sometimes not inconsiderable Little thing
from the real world in their right place, put. Therefore, the life of this An association of
people suffering the most sensitive and plagues that fact only sensitive be that he can make anyone understand.
He has now once a certain Given skill, the other is his nature, all people and acts in an idealistic
The light to see. All characters and opinions, depart from his, seem to him so great, it looks so
much behind it that it extraordinary man in a loud, gigantic surrounded virtuous heroes or villains
to be believed, and he never made comprehensible be possible that the greater part of men is moderate,
and neither major virtues even large trucks other than the hearsay knows after.

Now take that man if he was in love, what will put in his Schoenen.

Three times he is up and running, he finally despaired of the whole female gender and which he
attributed to them before too much, he did not trust them now too little, too.

Now imagine what the discovery of such a character as that of your bride was made for him to
have an idea must. He looked, thought, heard, felt now now nothing but the manifestation of
a deity who came to earth in female form would be to bring him back from his profane error. But
the more we have now to fear from him, his mind now reeling with his wild imagination makes
common cause.
 In order,
therefore, that the well disposed, who do not know what heavenly joy is, may know and realize
what it is, they are taken first to paradisal scenes that transcend every conception of the
imagination. They then think that they have come into the heavenly paradise; but they are taught
that this is not true heavenly happiness; and they are permitted to realize such interior states
of joy as are perceptible to their inmost. They are then brought into a state of peace even
to their inmost, when they confess that nothing of it is in the least expressible or conceivable.
Finally they are brought into a state of innocence even to their inmost sense. Thus they are
permitted to learn what true spiritual and heavenly good is.

413. But that I might learn the nature of heaven and heavenly joy I have frequently and for
a long time been permitted by the Lord to perceive the delights of heavenly joys; but while
I have been enabled to know by living experience what they are I am not at all able to describe
them. Nevertheless, that some idea of them may be formed, something shall be said about them. Which one for further discussion had
determined the events of last evening.

But not only these two well-known personalities of the State of Pennsylvania were without a trace
disappeared, even from the servants Frycollin was no message, he was no more to find his master.
Indeed, since Toussaint Louverture, Dessalines and Faustin Soulouque no Negro had been so much
talked about. He was on the point, excellent Place both among his colleagues serving in Philadelphia,
as in all those originals assume that any Exentricität in the beautiful America was already
in brighter light set suffices.

On the following day nothing new. Neither the two colleagues, nor
Frycollin reappeared. In a word, each general affection contains
infinite affections arranged in a most orderly form, with nothing therein that is not alive,
and that does not affect all of them from the inmosts; for heavenly joys go forth from inmosts.
I perceived also that the joy and ecstasy came as from the heart, diffusing most softly through
all the inmost fibers, and from these into the bundles of fibers, with such an inmost sense
of delight that the fiber seemed to be nothing but joy and ecstasy, and everything perceptive
and sensitive therefrom seemed in like manner to be alive with happiness. Compared with these
joys the joy of bodily pleasures is like a gross and pungent dust compared with a pure and
most gentle aura. I have noticed that when I wished to transfer all my delight to another,
a more interior and fuller delight continually flowed in in its place, and the more I wished
this, the more flowed in; and this was perceived to be from the Lord.

414. Those that are in heaven are continually advancing towards the spring of life, with a
greater advance towards a more joyful and happy spring the more thousands of years they live;
and this to eternity, with increase according to the growth and degree of their love, charity,
and faith. Women who have died old and worn out with age, if they have lived in faith in the
Lord, in charity to the neighbor, and in happy marriage love with a husband, advance with the
succession of years more and more into the flower of youth and early womanhood, and into a
beauty that transcends every conception of any such beauty as is seen on the earth. Goodness
and charity are what give this form and thus manifest their own likeness, causing the joy and
beauty of charity to shine forth from every least particular of the face, and causing them
to be the very forms of charity. Some who beheld this were struck with amazement. The form
of charity that is seen in a living way in heaven, is such that it is charity itself that both
forms and is formed; and this in such a manner that the whole angel is a charity, as it were,
especially the face; and this is both clearly seen and felt. When this form is beheld it is
beauty unspeakable, affecting with charity the very inmost life of the mind. In a word, to
grow old in heaven is to grow young. Such forms or such beauties do those become in the other
life who have lived in love to the Lord and in charity towards the neighbor. All angels are
such forms in endless variety; and of these heaven is constituted.

415. XLIII. THE IMMENSITY OF HEAVEN.

The immensity of the heaven of the Lord is evident from many things that have been said and
shown in the foregoing chapters, especially from this, that heaven is from the human race (n.
311-317), both from those born within the church and from those born out of it (n. 318-328);
thus it consists of all from the beginning of this earth that have lived a good life. How great
a multitude of men there is in this entire world any one who knows anything about the divisions,
the regions, and kingdoms of the earth may conclude. Whoever goes into a calculation will find
that several thousands of men die every day, that is, some myriads of millions every year;
and this from the earliest times, since which several thousands of years have elapsed. All
of these after death have gone into the other world, which is called the spiritual world, and
they are constantly going into it. But how many of these have become or are becoming angels
of heaven cannot be told. This I have been told, that in ancient times the number was very
great, because men then thought more interiorly and spiritually, and from such thought were
in heavenly affection; but in the following ages not so many, because in the process of time
man became more external and began to think more naturally, and from such thought to be in
earthly affection. All of this shows how great heaven is even from the inhabitants of this
earth alone.

416. The immensity of the heaven of the Lord is shown also by this, that all children, whether
born within the church or out of it, are adopted by the Lord and become angels; and the number
of these amounts to a fourth or fifth part of the whole human race on the earth. That every
child, wherever born, whether within the church or out of it, whether of pious or impious parents,
is received by the Lord when it dies, and is brought up in heaven, and is taught and imbued
with affections for good, and through these with knowledges of truth, in accordance with Divine
order, and as he becomes perfected in intelligence and wisdom is brought into heaven and becomes
an angel, can be seen above (n. 329-345). From all this a conclusion may be formed of the multitude
of angels of heaven, derived from this source alone, from the first creation to the present time.

417. Again, how immense the heaven of the Lord is can be seen from this, that all the planets
visible to the eye in our solar system are earths, and moreover, that in the whole universe
there are innumerable earths, all of them full of inhabitants. These have been treated of particularly
in a small work on those earths from which I will quote the following passage:

It is fully known in the other life that there are many earths inhabited by men from which
spirits and angels come; for everyone there who desires from a love of truth and of use to
do so is permitted to talk with spirits of other earths, and thus be assured that there is
a plurality of worlds, and learn that the human race is not from one earth alone, but from
innumerable earths. I have frequently talked about this with spirits of our earth, and was
told that any intelligent person ought to know from many things that he does know that there
are many earths inhabited by men; for it may be reasonably inferred that immense bodies like
the planets, some of which exceed this earth in magnitude, are not empty masses created merely
to be borne through space and to be carried around the sun, and to shine with their scanty
light for the benefit of a single earth, but must have a more important use. He that believes,
as everyone must believe, that the Divine created the universe for no other end than that the
human race might exist, and heaven therefrom, for the human race is a seminary of heaven, must
needs believe that wherever there is an earth there are men. That the planets visible to us
because they are within the limits of our solar system are earths is evident from their being
bodies of earthy matters, which is known from their reflecting the sun's light, and from their
not appearing, when viewed through telescopes, like stars, sparkling with flame, but like earths
varied with darker portions; also from their passing like our earth around the sun and following
in the path of the zodiac, thus making years and seasons of the year, spring, summer, autumn,
and winter, also revolving on their axes like our earth, making days and times of the day,
morning, mid-day, evening, and night; also from some of them having moons, called satellites,
that revolve around their earth at stated times, as the moon does around ours; while the planet
Saturn, being at a greater distance from the sun, has also a large luminous belt which gives
much light, though reflected, to that earth. Who that knows all this and thinks rationally
can ever say that the planets are empty bodies? Moreover, I have said to spirits that man might
believe that there are more earths in the universe than one, from the fact that the starry
heaven is so immense, and the stars there so innumerable, and each of them in its place or
in its system a sun, resembling our sun, although of a varying magnitude. Any one who duly
weighs the subject must conclude that such an immense whole must needs be a means to an end
that is the final end of creation; and this end is a heavenly kingdom in which the Divine may
dwell with angels and men. For the visible universe or the heaven illumined by stars so numberless,
which are so many suns, is simply a means for the existence of earths with men upon them from
whom the heavenly kingdom is derived. From all this a rational man must needs conclude that
so immense a means to so great an end could not have been provided merely for the human race
on a single earth. What would this be for a Divine that is infinite, to which thousands and
even myriads of earths, all of them full of inhabitants, would be little and scarcely anything?
There are spirits whose sole pursuit is the acquisition of knowledges, because their delight
is in this alone; and for this reason they are permitted to wander about, and even to pass
out of our solar system into others, in acquiring knowledge. But if the women in their nature also
continually betrayed, they retained the same amount of service you consent to something cool housemates
opposite, and since that first day, weeks passed without any of the neighbors Women had entered
the chamber of Förster widow. This was serious because of its accessibility, gradually to a rivalry
in all of the objectives pursued now, and we feared no list and came up in the late evening
hours, from Wankas a sugar or a mortar Corkscrew, which you strangely moved often, finally
the floor, or hire key things which one of them usually wore, in addition to the anger, not seen
on the threshold of the living room have to.

This hopeless obstinacy was not in proportion to the original confessions the old maid, and it was
understandable that one of its concessions all other expected; but even they seemed to be taciturn
and suspicious and began when she urged, again and again to tell a story, who knew all the long:
from the March morning, where the woodcutters the district forester Joachim Wanke, shot by poachers,
from the Forest had brought home. And that his face was full of congealed anger and dark,
almost overshadowed by the bushy eyebrows and lay there as his fists are not solved, even in the
not many tears, so that the forester would probably have his hands full - once - To do at the
last day, as he had all the time with piously folded hands lying there. Then the old woman
crossed herself with habitual About and assured the abundance, they have made of dreams and signs
long before known this whole disaster, and also the fact that the Mr. Julius Caesar in the
Krumlov castle was again handled and it was the warden that in an armchair opposite him and the
Emperor Rudolf, lowered his head in his hand, about the night away in the Moldau valley saw stars.

Who
did not believe such, the habit of despising the old Rosalka bluntly, for they thought it was
a lack of education and experience, and for one of the many ill effects
the culture that "in the big city" is always more powerful to make
progress.

She could then also not help in the evening, when Mrs. Wanka with her son at all serious and
considerate talks seemed to lead to the daughter Luisa, who so completely unnecessary with large
lost eyes dabeisaß to sneak into the kitchen and also wave to them from the sinful mouths of heretics
warning that would have more fear of anything - in any cemetery and before any midnight so
together, not even from both. And there was evoked by a short that mood, in which the old woman
felt at home: things all around, from the stiff kitchen cupboard until the clumsy washing trough,
which had just been standing still as sober, began with a male be listening to, and it was as
they advanced in order to lose no word Rosalkas closer and closer to the two women, such as noise
awakened by steps, and for no reason laughed one of the old tin pans: plink "Then was the maid,
and with a beating! Heart pursued both the silver clay and they happened that an invisible
Clock any an important hour had struck. And sometimes the old kitchen light, walked as in agreement
with Rosalka, just as was this last manned, and the heavy and rich twilight sultry reeling
from thousands of possibilities. Luisa, who always sat very silently in a corner, became smaller
and smaller these powers over, they seemed to dissolve and leave nothing anxious than two large
eyes, which haunts the faithful with a certain confidence . Going about It was then, as in the great hall
of the mask Krumlov Castle, whose walls way up to the vaulted ceiling, echoing up with life-size
figures are painted. A French Painter to many hundreds of years, this carnival groups as clever
in so rich and surprising changes have composed that one - even in the light of day - after each appear
figure still new, fantastically dressed guest sees. In Cesky Krumlov, but knows you definitely that
such is not on the merits of the painter, but on the strange Fact is that the knights and
ladies start at a certain hour to wake up to the to repeat a distant spectacle that night. rising from
the walls, they meet the Hall with its gleaming throng. Until the huge infantrymen on the Saalthüre
the halberds hard hit the ground: there is order the rows. A thunder rolls over them. With
its wild, black six horses, Prince Julius Caesar, the second son of Rudolf secret, from the
towering ramp driven up and barely a breath later, he is black and slender, among the guests,
who bow down, down, like a cypress in the flying field of corn. Then mix the music, the crowd,
a strange music, which, in the stringing together strips of precious Dresses seem to arise and
growing, spreads and roaring rises from the masses, as the melody of a sea. And here and there, the
prince tells a wave of the shining waves, disappears in them increases, on the other corner proudly
from them, can be brilliant Smile like a sun flash glide over it and throws a bright, mischievous
word, like a precious ring, after all snatches the midst of the surging inside. And under the
wilder and burrowing to and fro growing secret pleasure. At a silver knight Page recognizes the
Prince a pale blue lady and feels at once: the love for her, hatred for her companion. And both are
in it is red and quickly. And he has the silver Knight made a good king, for the flows down through
the bare tank a purple, always wider and bleeding, until he breaks silence under the weight of
the royal coat: "It goes so many kings," he laughs, the Prince in the dying eyes. Since freezing
the festive Figures pale with horror and slowly dying and bang into the walls back, and how a
pale rock country increases the deserted hall of the last shining waves. Only Julius Caesar
remains, and the greedy eyes glow of his hot seared the pale girl the senses. But how he will
grab them, they are snatching his compelling eyes and flees in the dark, echoing room, her
light blue silk dress is ripped to shreds, like a Piece of moon light in the wild fingers
of the prince, and he winds around his neck and strangled with it. Then he touched her to into
the night and shout suddenly. He hears she has discovered the small tapestry, and he knows
that now she is his, because from there it gives only one way: the narrow staircase tower, which opens
into the small round scented room - high Moldova in the tower. And with wanton haste he is behind
her, always behind her, and he hears not dispelled their step, but as a gloss he sees them at
every turn of the Steps in front of him. Then he grabs her again, and now he has the delicate,
warm shirt angst in hand, only the shirt, and his lips and cheeks it is cool. He was dizzy, and as
he kisses his prey, he slowly leans against the wall. Then with three, four tigers jumps he
appeared up to the door of the tower room, and - frozen: soars high before the night, naked, the
pure white body, like from the window edge blossomed. And still they are both. But then, before
he's even thinking stand out two bright, child-tender arms into the star, as did they are grand,
it goes out a little before him, and before the high window arch is nothing more as hollow
howling night and cry ...

- - - - - - - - - -

"And you're really eighteen?" Said Zdenko and bent over his frightened, crying Sister, which
was very small and shy, found in the little corner of the kitchen. "So you get your old ghosts
and forth to Prague? Or has it in their Rosalka Pots and pans with you? "The old maid turned
away angrily. "Yes," hesitated Luisa, "Yes," breathed and haltingly, "first, as we came from,
'I thought, I am rid of them. As I have seen the light houses and wide streets, because I was
quite free and happy; here, but on the small side, it is almost worse
than ours.

Not? "And slowly looked the girl at.

Zdenko but she pulled behind her bright in the living room. "Of course, As I have said it, "he called
out to his mother, -" as we speak, it is again with the old witch out there and very excited
by the eternal nonsense. "Mrs. Josephine shook her head with the wide, gray crests and said,
"When will you then be reasonable times, child? "She sewed on quietly in white linen pieces,
and in the basket next to her still a lot of work. But after a while put the widow of the pricked
Fingers in her lap and her daughter saw the face. Luisa had been blinded by the bright lamp, eyes
closed and her delicate pale face was such a significant fear remained, that the mother was terrified.
It struck her with a male to how weak and frail the girl was and whether she would ever have
power enough in life even without support and assistance to stay upright. The kind and pale
blue eyes clouded the mother in tears, it could but also by his effort, for the White Sewing is a
laborious work, and the lids Women Wanka were always a little flushed away. Luisa, who must
have felt the gaze, after a while went out to help the mother. So both women were bent over
the cloth, and the hanging lamp brightly illuminated the gray and blond hair. Now, said Zdenko:
"I do not know, I am always thinking that Luisa has remained so small from sheer awe. Really. It
may be so. If a small forever, from all over, all such great things does like them - you only think the castle
on the steep rocks, these high courts, the large Cannons on the jumps and finally in the halls
- chairs and pictures and vases - all as made for giants - then he looked to grow these things
either ... "(Mrs. Wanka their Son smiling face, and then diligently sewed on) "or - he loses all
at all Courage them to grow back. For he must think that so great "I shall never. And for sheer
Stand and stare the days pass, and we forget to itself and that these But things are really just
an example. Do not you know Luisa? "

"Perhaps," the nurse nodded and did not interrupt their work.

"I told him some day felt that one can push it - as a boy," Zdenko looked over. Women to continue
indefinitely. "But then there comes the jerk, since you can before all toes is rather kneel before
add, and one has the gone, then it is not long until Drüberhinsehen. And believe me, that makes
everything. Only everything always overlook. The maximum is at, is always the master. I've always
been very clear known what makes our time so confused and so unsure, but now I have been here in
the am city and see many people - I know it: that is not over it. You tell me that is wrong:
the city is the mayor and above it the governor and must again the
king is a good piece up and see the king and emperor of the Pope.

The Pope But despite his high three times the krona is still not
up to God, says her.

I think it comes from the fact that the thing we usually look at the wrong end. I seems very
far down is the good God and a little away about him, the Pope and so on. Top but is the people.
But the people's not one that many, they come and push each other, and moved one to the other
the sun. Since my 'I just always, - some one would have to raise it from time to time in the
air not too high (it could easily fall down to where the king, or the Emperor), but so that
he their strong and loyal Shoulders feel between themselves and can look with calm consideration
for a while about their Heads. If he is again among them, he will be returned as from home
and his brothers can say where the sun rises and how long it may last until then - And so much more.
But now ... "Zdenko covered his eyes with his hand. Then rose He violently: "Mua leave, now
the hard work and goes to sleep, it's late. The lamp is also go out the same. "His voice was rough.
He noticed until now that no longer Luisa leaning over the linen sat, her eyes were burning
to meet him, big and bright as ever. And strangely, he saw himself in those eyes and sat up proud
and strong as before a Mirror.

But his mother sewed all the time with vigorous tireless efforts, and Zdenko had suddenly the need to
be joined by her and kiss her hands.

* * * * *

There was no suspicion that the girl had been still and silent Rosalka the household opposite.
Old people, it was made often so when they made the usual Kleinhäuslichkeit their Provincial
city sold itself to cope in a new place, and may be the larger scales and are not adapted as
a narrow room in a reverberant room offset inside her most secret words by invisible choirs are
nachgesprochen loud during their many violent gestures to get lost in the vastness of this unresponsive
area seem.

In the beginning like them because of the novelty, but soon they will feel it as an effort which,
without adequate wages, discouraging effect of a morning and leave
the hands in her lap and are the words on the tongue.

                   It occurs, moreover, that the people in the country are to a capable
modest.

Since it is sufficient once had a fairly sizeable accident to have to for all time, to the last God-blessed
day, the respectful regret of the refer to acquaintances as a lifelong pension. But should "in
the big city is so - Growled the old woman - to stay reasonably on top, at least once a week
Father lose and fall every three weeks from the stairs or out the window. She thought with sad
eyes of their "position" in Cesky Krumlov and could not forgive her reign, that, in order to allow
the Zdenko the university would be moved to Prague. They granted Förster's the wife that they now
own a few times a week had to go into "houses" in order to Weißnäharbeit to her small pension and the
princely Schwarzenberg grace the content hinzuzuverdienen, which called for the new household
and formation of the son. She knew also that the woman Wanka Zdenko would make any sacrifice
and had the dark desire in him to see a "studied Doctor," which for Rosalka as the undue pursuit
of a unbridled arrogance, for whose sake they had to cross themselves three times, appeared.
 For there are two ways that lead to the rational mind of man; a higher
or internal way through which good and truth from the Lord enter, and a lower or external way
through which evil and falsity enter from hell. The rational mind itself is at the middle point
to which the ways tend. Consequently, so far as light from heaven is admitted man is rational;
but so far as it is not admitted he is not rational, however rational he may seem to himself
to be. This has been said to make known the nature of the correspondence of man with heaven
and with hell. While man's rational mind is being formed it corresponds to the world of spirits,
what is above it corresponding to heaven and what is below to hell. With those preparing for
heaven the regions above the rational mind are opened, but those below are closed to the influx
of evil and falsity; while with those preparing for hell the parts below it are opened, and
the parts above it are closed to the influx of good and truth. Thus the latter can look only
to what is below themselves, that is, to hell; while the former can look only to what is above
themselves, that is, to heaven. To look above themselves is to look to the Lord, because He
is the common center to which all things of heaven look; while to look below themselves is
to look backwards from the Lord to the opposite center, to which all things of hell look and
tend (see above, n. 123, 124).

431. In the preceding pages whenever spirits are mentioned those that are in the world of spirits
are meant; but when angels are mentioned those that are in heaven are meant.

432. XLV. IN RESPECT TO HIS INTERIORS EVERY MAN IS A SPIRIT.

Whoever duly considers the subject can see that as the body is material it is not the body
that thinks, but the soul, which is spiritual. The soul of man, upon the immortality of which
many have written, is his spirit, for this as to everything belonging to it is immortal. This
also is what thinks in the body, for it is spiritual, and what is spiritual receives what is
spiritual and lives spiritually, which is to think and to will. Therefore, all rational life
that appears in the body belongs to the soul, and nothing of it to the body; for the body,
as just said, is material, and the material, which is the property of the body, is added to
and apparently almost joined to the spirit, in order that the spirit of man may be able to
live and perform uses in the natural world, all things of which are material and in themselves
devoid of life. And as it is the spiritual only that lives and not the material, it can be
seen that whatever lives in man is his spirit, and that the body merely serves it, just as
what is instrumental serves a moving living force. An instrument is said indeed to act, to
move, or to strike; but to believe that these are acts of the instrument, and not of him who
acts, moves, or strikes by means of the instrument, is a fallacy.

433. As everything in the body that lives, and that acts and feels from that life, belongs
exclusively to the spirit, and nothing of it to the body, it follows that the spirit is the
man himself; or what is the same thing, that a man viewed in himself is a spirit possessing
a like form; for whatever lives and feels in man belongs to his spirit and everything in man,
from his head to the sole of his foot, lives and feels; and in consequence when the body is
separated from its spirit, which is what is called dying, man continues to be a man and to
live. I have heard from heaven that some who die, while they are lying upon the bier, before
they are resuscitated, continue to think even in their cold body, and do not know that they
are not still alive, except that they are unable to move a particle of matter belonging to
the body.

434. Unless man were a subject which is a substance that can serve a source and containant
he would be unable to think and will. Any thing that is supposed to exist apart from a substantial
subject is nothing. This can be seen from the fact that a man is unable to see without an organ
which is the subject of his sight, or to hear without an organ which is the subject of his
hearing. Apart from these organs, sight and hearing are nothing and have no existence. The
same is true of thought, which is inner sight, and of perception, which is inner hearing; unless
these were in substances and from substances which are organic forms and subjects, they would
have no existence at all. All this shows that man's spirit as well as his body is in a form,
and that it is in a human form, and enjoys sensories and senses when separated from the body
the same as when it was in it, and that all the life of the eye and all the life of the ear,
in a word, all the life of sense that man has, belongs not to his body but to his spirit, which
dwells in these organs and in their minutest particulars. This is why spirits see, hear, and
feel, as well as men. But when the spirit has been loosed from the body, these senses are exercised
in the spiritual world, not in the natural world. The natural sensation that the spirit had
when it was in the body it had by means of the material part that was added to it; but it then
had also spiritual sensations in its thinking and willing.

435. All this has been said to convince the rational man that viewed in himself man is a spirit,
and that the corporeal part that is added to the spirit to enable it to perform its functions
in the natural and material world is not the man, but only an instrument of his spirit. But
evidences from experience are preferable, because there are many that fail to comprehend rational
deductions; and those that have established themselves in the opposite view turn such deductions
into grounds of doubt by means of reasonings from the fallacies of the senses. "That," he said, patting with his
short hand over the shiny brown hair still the same, "this is of course only wig, but the
eyes, unnaturally young eyes, they're probably still the real old fun in our day! "

The guest into smiling this stream of chatter about indulging, while the mayor beside him on the sofa
niederzog. "And now," continued the latter, "where are you from, what are you, what are you doing?
"

"I, Fritz?" jokingly replied the other, "I'm looking for a content which is still empty Vessel
of my life, or rather, "he added more seriously, adding," I do not
seek it, I suffer just a little of that emptiness.

"

The Mayor looked him frankly in the eyes.

"You, Richard?" said he, "at the University of all faculties have
been grazed!

But Will an old friend at a certain anonymous have discovered even your pen in a botanical
journal "

"Really, Fritz - he has not seen failure."

The little fat man remembered.

"You're still single?" he asked. "Yes?" Even now? Hm! You were an enthusiast, Richard! Do you
remember when we danced on the students Dornburg? You were currently the bride at home, you
would not dance, you were sitting in the corner by the long Wassermann,
who could not dance because of his big boots, and drank only Wine,
very much wine, Richard!

You did not want the happy dances desecrate you at home had danced
with her!

"

The other was a bit quiet now, while the mayor in a sudden uneasiness
Clock his gold from the depths of his pocket pulled. "Tell me, darling,"
he began again, you give me but this day? "

"I have the afternoon
even more."

"Unruh Still the old masters?"

"Forgive the extra post
is already ordered! You have here a few miles north between Heath
and swamp forests still be looking a little Flora! "

438. To this may be added that every man in respect to his spirit, even while he is living
in the body, is in some society with spirits, although he does not know it; if a good man he
is by means of spirits in some angelic society; if an evil man in some infernal society; and
after death he comes into that same society. This has been often told and shown to those who
after death have come among spirits. Man, to be sure, does not appear in that society as a
spirit while he is living in the world, for the reason that he then thinks naturally; but when
one is thinking abstractly from the body, because he is then in the spirit, he sometimes appears
in his society; and when seen he is easily distinguished from the spirits there, for he goes
about meditating and in silence, not looking at others, and apparently not seeing them; and
as soon as any spirit speaks to him he vanishes.

439. To make clear that man in respect to his interiors is a spirit I will relate from experience
what happens when man is withdrawn from the body, and what it is to be carried away by the
spirit to another place.

440. First, as to withdrawal from the body, it happens thus. The electric lights went out, because
they lacked the power suddenly, and it was completely dark. But if at the same time the most buoyant
screws bent or partially destroyed, and thus ineffective made were so turned at least much
more undisturbed near the bow.

Pötzlich opened and the Aeronef a little behind the first Ruff, the accumulators still the front
driving screw received in action, and the rear portion of the deck fell just as quickly downward.
Almost simultaneously focused on the rear lift screws still and the
"Albatros" crashed down into the depths.

This meant for the eight men who are equal castaways clung to the wreck, a fall of three thousand
meters.

The same had to boot even faster so when the front drive screw, the Vertical axis now stood,
still worked.

Then ordered Robur, in this desperate situation, a very extraordinary coolness the day, put up
to slide the half-blasted away Ruff, seized the control lever and immediately changed the direction
of rotation of the screw, which is now up to take forward operation.

The crash was the fact although not stopped, but at least slowed down, the wreck was not down
with increasing speed, all of which only the effect of Body subject
to gravity show.

And although all living beings on the "Albatros" still threatened with death because they had to
fall helplessly into the sea, so it was not yet more death from suffocation
amidst the frantic speed of the case because unathembar expectant air.

Twenty-four seconds after the explosion was what the "Albatross" was left in the waters sunk.

XVI.

What
the reader is led forward by two months back and even at nine months.

Some weeks earlier, on 13 June, ie on the day after the memorable
meeting, while the It came in the Weldon Institute so stormy negotiations,
prevailed among all classes of the residents of Philadelphia, among
the Negroes as whites, a slight constatirende, to be described as
excitement. But it has been
granted to me now for many years to speak with spirits and to be with them as one of them,
even in full wakefulness of the body.

443. That in respect to his interiors man is a spirit there are further evidences in what has
been said and shown above (n. 311-317), where it is explained that heaven and hell are from
the human race.

444. That man is a spirit in respect to his interiors means in respect to the things pertaining
to his thought and will, for these are the interiors themselves that make man to be man, and
such a man as he is in respect to these interiors.

445. XLVI. THE RESUSCITATION OF MAN FROM THE DEAD AND HIS ENTRANCE INTO ETERNAL LIFE.

When the body is no longer able to perform the bodily functions in the natural world that correspond
to the spirit's thoughts and affections, which the spirit has from the spiritual world, man
is said to die. This takes place when the respiration of the lungs and the beatings of the
heart cease. Inside,
however, in his shop and sat the stern work himself, except the said office that of a court
servant and master police united in his person, immersed in a thick Aktenfaszikel, heedless of the
serene splendor, by the window hereinstroemte to him. As a fugitive was outside knocking at the
door, and the sullen "Come in!" the official was a brown, handsome man over the threshold, however,
the first Half of the forties may have already achieved.
 And this
is why in the Word in its internal sense "death" signifies resurrection and continuation of
life.{1}

  {Footnote 1} In the Word "death" signifies resurrection, for
  when man dies his life still goes on (n. 3498, 3505, 4618,
  4621, 6036, 6221).

