In his reports as Insurance Commissioner Elizur Wright had recommended this class of policies
as a salutary provision against poverty in old age, and he felt under obligations to the public
to correct this injustice, [Footnote: On a policy of ten thousand dollars, it would amount
to an appreciable sum.] but the insurance agents had also advocated them for evident reasons
and were naturally opposed to any project of reform. The managers of the companies also treated
the subject coldly, for the discrimination against endowments enabled them to accumulate a
larger reserve which made them appear to better advantage before the general public. The numerous
agents and solicitors formed a solid body of opposition and raised a chorus against Elizur
Wright like that which the robins make when you pick your own cherries. This class of persons
when they are actuated by a common impulse make a formidable impression.

Mr. Wright, after arguing his case with the insurance companies for nearly a year without effect,
appealed to the public through the newspapers. This, however, had unexpected consequences.
Mr. Wright's letters produced the impression, which he did not intend at all, that the insurance
companies were unsound, and policy-holders rushed to the offices to make inquiries. Many surrendered
their policies.

In this emergency the officers of the companies went to the editors and explained to them that
their business would be ruined if Mr. Wright was permitted to continue his attacks on them.
They then made Mr. Wright what may have been intended for a magnanimous offer, though he did
not look on it in that light,--namely, an offer of ten thousand dollars a year, if he would
retire from the actuary business and not molest them any longer. [Footnote: These events took
place thirty years ago and have no relation to the present condition and practice of American
insurance companies.] Elizur Wright refused this, as he might have declined the offer of a
cigar, and appealed to the Legislature. The companies then withdrew their business from Mr.
Wright and thus reduced his income from twelve thousand dollars a year to about three thousand;
but this troubled him no more than it would have Diogenes.

In the summer of 1872 a portly gentleman called at Elizur Wright's office on State Street and
introduced himself as the president of a well-known Western insurance company. As it was a
pleasant day Mr. Wright invited his visitor to Pine Hill, where they could converse to better
advantage than in a Boston office; but being much absorbed in his subject, while passing through
Medford Centre, he neglected to order a dinner; and the consequence of this was that his portly
friend was obliged to make a lunch on cold meat and potato salad. That same evening Mr. Wright's
daughter twitted him on his lack of forethought, and hoped such a thing would not happen again,
to which he only replied: "The kindest thing you can do for such a man is to starve him." Such
was his philosophy on all occasions.

He devised a plan for combining life insurance with a savings bank, by which the laboring man
could obtain a certain amount of insurance for his family (or old age) instead of interest
upon his deposits. This was an admirable idea, and if he had undertaken to carry it out in
the prime of life he might have succeeded in realizing it; but he was now upwards of seventy,
and his friends concluded that the experiment would be a risky one, as a favorable result would
depend entirely on Mr. Wright's longevity. At the same time he had another enterprise in hand,
namely, to convert the Middlesex Fells, in which Pine Hill is situated, into a public park.
This was greatly needed for the crowded population on the northern side of Boston, and though
the plan was not carried out until after his death, he was the originator and earliest promoter
of it.

Elizur Wright's most conspicuous trait was generosity. He lived for the world and not for himself.
He was a man of broad views and great designs; a daring, original thinker. He respected Emerson,
but preferred the philosophy of John Stuart Mill, from the study of which he became an advocate
of free trade and woman suffrage.

He died November 21, 1885, in the midst of a rain-storm which lasted six days and nights. He
lies interred at Mt. Hope Cemetery.

DR. W. T. G. MORTON

A distinguished American called upon Charles Darwin, and in the course of conversation asked
him what he considered the most important discovery of the nineteenth century. To which Mr.
Darwin replied, after a slight hesitation: "Painless surgery." He thought this more beneficial
in its effects on human affairs than either the steam-engine or the telegraph. Let it also
be noted that he spoke of it as an invention, rather than as a discovery.

The person to whom all scientific men now attribute the honor of this discovery, or invention,
is Dr. William T. G. Morton; and, although in that matter he was not without slight assistance
from others, as well as predecessors in the way of tentative experiments, yet it was Doctor
Morton who first proved the possibility of applying anaesthesia to surgical operations of a
capital order; and it was he who pushed his theory to a practical success. It may also be admitted
that Columbus could not have discovered the Western Hemisphere without the assistance of Ferdinand
and Isabella; but it was Columbus who divined the existence of the American continent, and
afterwards proved his theory to be true. There is an underlying similarity between the labors
and lives of Columbus and Morton, in spite of large superficial differences.

William Thomas Greene Morton was born August 19, 1819, in Charlton, Massachusetts, a small
town in the Connecticut Valley. His father was a flourishing farmer and lived in an old-fashioned
but commodious country house, with a large square chimney in the centre of it. William was
not only a bright but a very dexterous boy, and was sent to school in the academy at Northfield,
and afterwards at Leicester. It is a family tradition that he early showed an experimental
tendency by brewing concoctions of various kinds for the benefit of his young companions, and
that he once made his sister deathly sick in this manner. His father, finding him a more energetic
boy than the average of farmers' sons, advised him to go to Boston, to seek whatever fortune
he could find there.

This resulted in his obtaining employment, probably through the Charlton clergyman, in the
office of a religious periodical, the Christian Witness; but the situation, though a comfortable
one, was not adapted to his tastes, and from some unexplained attraction to the profession,
he decided to study dentistry. This he accordingly did, graduating at the Baltimore Dental
College in 1842. He then engaged an office in Boston, and soon acquired a lucrative practice.
He was an uncommonly handsome man, with a determined look in his eye, but also a kindly expression
and pleasing manners, which may have brought him more practice than his skill in dentistry,--although
that was also good.

The following year he was married to Miss Elizabeth Whitman, of Farmington, Connecticut, whose
uncle, at least, had been a member of Congress,--a highly genteel family in that region. In
fact, her parents objected to Doctor Morton on account of his profession, and it was only after
his promise to study medicine and become a regular practitioner that they consented to the
match. Accordingly, Doctor Morton in the autumn of 1844 commenced a course at the Harvard Medical-School.

Mrs. Morton was a handsome young woman, with a fair face and elegant figure. It would have
been difficult to find a better looking couple anywhere in the suburbs, and with good health
and strength it seemed as if fortune would certainly smile on them. Doctor Morton built a summer
cottage at Wellesley, where the public library now stands, and planted a grove of trees about
it; but a mere earthly paradise could not satisfy him. He was not an ambitious man, or he would
not have chosen the dental profession; but the food he lived on was not of this world. He had
the daring spirit, the speculative temperament, and restless energy of the born discoverer.
Already he had made improvements in the manufacture of artificial teeth. He was the first,
or one of the first, to recognize the importance of chemistry in connection with the practice
of medicine. He had no sooner returned to Boston than he commenced the study of chemistry with
Dr. Charles T. Jackson, spending from six to ten hours a week in his laboratory; and he thus
became acquainted with the properties and peculiarities of most of the chemical ingredients
known at that time.

Mrs. Morton soon discovered with awe and trepidation that she had married no ordinary man.
That he had a real skeleton in his closet was to have been expected; but, besides this, there
were rows of mysterious-looking bottles, with substances in them quite different from the medicines
which were prescribed by the doctors in Farmington. He tried experiments on their black water-spaniel
and nearly killed him; and even descended to fishes and insects. He would muse for hours by
himself, and if she asked him what he was thinking of he gave her no explanation that she could
understand. Although he was so attractive and pleasing, he did not care much for human society.
[Footnote: McClure's Magazine, September, 1896.] He was kind and good to her, and with that
she was content. A more devoted wife, or faithful mother, has not been portrayed in poetry
or romance.

These phenomena in Doctor Morton's early life remind one of certain processes in the budding
of a flower. They indicate a tendency to some object which perhaps was not at the time wholly
clear to the man himself. Impelled by the humanitarian spirit of the age, he moved forward
with a clear eye and firm hand to grasp the opportunity when it arrived,--nor was it long delayed.

In considering the discovery of etherization we ought to eliminate all evidence of an ex parte
character, unless it is supported circumstantially; but there is no reason why we should disbelieve
Mrs. Morton's statement that her husband made experiments with sulphuric ether; that his clothes
smelt of it; and that he tried to persuade laboring-men to allow him to experiment upon them
with it. As Dr. J. Collins Warren says: "Anaesthesia had been the dream of many surgeons and
scientists, but it had been classed with aerial navigation and other improbable inventions."
[Footnote: Anaesthesia in Surgery, 15.] As long ago as 1818 Faraday had discovered the chief
properties of ether, with the exception of its effect in deadening sensibility. In 1836 Dr.
Morrill Wyman and Dr. Samuel Parkman had experimented with it on themselves at the Massachusetts
Hospital, but without taking a sufficient quantity to produce unconsciousness. It was actually
employed in 1842 by Dr. Crawford W. Long, at the University of Pennsylvania, in some minor
cases of surgery, but he would seem to have lost confidence in his method and afterwards abandoned
it.

In December, 1844, Horace Wells, a dentist of Hartford, had a tooth extracted by his own request
while under the influence of nitrous oxide; and the following month he came to Boston, and
having made his discovery known, an operation at the hospital was undertaken with his assistance,
but the patient screamed, and it proved a failure so far as anaesthesia was concerned.

From these facts we readily draw the following conclusions: That the discovery of painless
surgery was essentially a practical affair for which only a slight knowledge of chemistry was
required; that it was not a discovery made at hap-hazard, but one that necessitated a skilful
hand and a clear understanding of the subject; and that the supposition which has sometimes
been advanced that Doctor Morton was necessarily indebted to Doctor Jackson for a knowledge
of the hypnotic effect of ether is wholly gratuitous.

We will now quote directly from Doctor Warren's lecture on "The Influence of Anaesthesia on
the Surgery of the Nineteenth Century," delivered before the American Surgical Association in 1897:

"Morton having acquainted himself by conversation with Mr. Metcalf and Mr. Burnett, both leading
druggists, as to purity and qualities of ether, and having also conversed with Mr. Wightman,
a philosophical instrument- maker, and with Doctor Jackson as to inhaling apparatus, proceeded
to experiment upon himself. After inhaling the purer quality of ether from a handkerchief he
awoke to find that he had been insensible for seven or eight minutes.

"The same day a stout, healthy man came to his office suffering from great pain and desiring
to have a tooth extracted. Dreading the pain, ho accepted willingly Morton's proposal to use
ether, and the tooth was extracted without suffering. Morton reported his success the next
day to Jackson, and conversed with him as to the best methods of bringing his discovery to
the attention of the medical profession and the public. Jackson pointed out that tooth-pulling
was not a sufficient test, as many people claimed to have teeth pulled without pain. It was
finally decided that the crucial test lay in a public demonstration in the operating theatre
of a hospital in a surgical case."

There is one statement in the above to which, according to our rules of literary procedure,
we feel obliged to take exception,--that is, the statement concerning the interview between
Morton and Jackson after the successful administration of ether to Morton's patient. It is
substantially Doctor Jackson's own statement. Doctor Morton gave a wholly different account
before the Congressional Committee of 1852. He said:

"I went to Doctor Jackson, told him what I had done, and asked him to give me a certificate
that ether was harmless in its effects. This he positively refused to do. I then told him I
should go to the principal surgeons and have the question thoroughly tried. I then called on
Doctor Warren, who promised me an early opportunity to try the experiment, and soon after I
received the invitation...."

Now as these are both ex parte statements, and as there are no witnesses on either side, according
to the rule we have already established, they will both have to be eliminated. [Footnote: The
Congressional Committee of 1852 did not find Doctor Jackson's report of this interview trustworthy.]
Doctor Morton, however, says previously that it was Doctor Hayward with whom he consulted as
to the best method of bringing his discovery before the world.

In the consideration of this subject we come upon a man of rare character--rare even, in his
profession. Dr. John C. Warren was the perfect type of an Anglo-Saxon surgeon. His courage
and dexterity were fully equalled by his kindness and sympathy for the patient. Cool and collected
in the most trying emergencies, it has been said of him that he never performed a capital operation
without feeling a pain in his heart; and the evidence of this was marked upon his face, so
that it is even visible in the photographs of him. He deserved to have his portrait painted
by Rubens. In 1847 Dr. Mason Warren published a review of etherization, in which he makes this
important statement:

"In the autumn of 1846 Dr. W. T. G. Morton, a dentist in Boston, a person of great ingenuity,
patience, and pertinacity of purpose, called on me several times to show some of his inventions.
At that time I introduced him to Dr. John C. Warren. Shortly after, in October, I learned from
Doctor Warren that Doctor Morton had visited him and informed him that he was in possession
of or had discovered a means of preventing pain, which he had proved in dental operations,
and wished Doctor Warren to give him an opportunity in a surgical operation. After some questions
on the subject in regard to its action and the safety of it, Doctor Warren promised that he
would do so.... The operation was therefore deferred until Friday, October 16, when the ether
was administered by Doctor Morton, and the operation performed by Doctor Warren."

It was eminently fitting that Dr. John C. Warren should be the one to introduce painless surgery
to the medical profession. Next to Morton he deserves the highest credit for the revolution
which it effected: a glorious revolution, fully equal to that of 1688. His quick recognition
of Morton's character, and the confidence he placed in him as the man of the hour, deserve
the highest commendation. Doctor Warren had invited Doctor Jackson to attend this critical
experiment with sulphuric ether at the Massachusetts Hospital; but he declined with the trite
excuse that he was obliged to go out of town. This has been generally interpreted by the medical
profession as a lack of courage on Jackson's part to face the music, but it may also have been
owing to his jealousy of Morton.

This happened October 16th, and on November 13th, Dr. C. T. Jackson wrote to M. Elie de Beaumont,
a member of the French Academy, this remarkable letter:

"I request permission to communicate through your medium to the Academy of Sciences a discovery
which I have made, and which I believe important for the relief of suffering humanity, as well
as of great value to the surgical profession. Five or six years ago I noticed the peculiar
state of insensibility into which the nervous system is thrown by the inhalation of the vapor
of pure sulphuric ether, which I respired abundantly,--first by way of experiments, and afterwards
when I had a severe catarrh, caused by the inhalation of chlorine gas. I have latterly made
a useful application of this fact by persuading a dentist of this city to administer the vapor
of ether to his patients, when about to undergo the operation of extraction of teeth. It was
observed that persons suffered no pain in the operation, and that no inconvenience resulted
from the administration of the vapor."

It was the opinion of Robert Rantoul and other members of the Congressional Committee that
Doctor Jackson suffered from a "heated and disordered imagination," and that is the most charitable
view that one can take of such a letter as this. Whatever may have been the result of Doctor
Jackson's investigations with sulphuric ether, it is certain that he added nothing to the scientific
knowledge of his time in that respect; [Footnote: Edinburgh Medical Journal, April 1, 1857.]
and if he persuaded Doctor Morton to make use of it, why was he not present to oversee his
subordinate? also, why did he make a charge on his books a few days later against Doctor Morton
of five hundred dollars for advice and information concerning the application of ether? It
is not customary to charge subordinates for their service but to reward them. The two horns
of this dilemma are sharp and penetrating.

In a later memorial of the same general tenor, which Doctor Jackson forwarded to Baron Humboldt,
he stated that he had applied to other dentists in Boston to make the experiment of etherization,
but found them unwilling to take the risk; but the names of the dentists have never been made
public, nor did any such appear afterwards to testify in Doctor Jackson's behalf.

Still more remarkable was the action of the French Academy of Arts and Sciences in these premises.
The French Academy was founded by Richelieu, but abolished in the first French Revolution,
with so many other enchanted phantasms. Napoleon re-established it, and gave it new life and
vigor by a discriminating choice of membership; but it is a close corporation which renews
itself by its own votes, and such a body of men is always in danger of becoming a mutual admiration
society, and if this happens its public utility is at an end. In the present instance the action
of the French Academy was illogical, unscientific, and mischievous.

Doctor Jackson's letter was brought before that august body on January 18, 1847, but previous
to that time Doctor Warren had written to Doctor Velpeau, an eminent French surgeon, concerning
the success of etherization at the Massachusetts Hospital, and suggesting the use of it in
the hospitals at Paris; and Doctor Velpeau referred to this fact at the meeting of January
18th. The contents of this letter have never been made public; but it is incredible that Doctor
Jackson's claim should have received any support from it. Nevertheless, the members of the
French Academy decided to divide one of the Mouthyon prizes (of five thousand francs for great
scientific discoveries) between Dr. W. T. G. Morton and Elie de Beaumont's American friend,
Dr. C. T. Jackson; and they conferred this particular favor on Dr. Jackson at his own representation,
without one witness in his favor, and without making an inquiry into the circumstances of the
discovery. Could the Northfield Academy of boys and girls have acted in a more heedless or
unscientific manner?

After the justice of this decision had been questioned, the French Academy promulgated a defence
of their previous action, of which the essence was that the scientific theory of Doctor Jackson
was as essential to the discovery of etherization as the practical skill of Doctor Morton;
that is, they attempted to decide a matter of fact by an a priori dogmatism. Was not the instruction
that Doctor Morton received from the dental college in Baltimore also essential to the discovery,--and
to go behind that,--what he learned at the primary school at Churiton? When learning is divorced
from reason it becomes mere pedantry or sublimated ignorance, and is more dangerous to the
community than unlettered ignorance can be.

This blunder of the French Academy had evil consequences for both Morton and Jackson; for it
placed the latter in a false position towards the world, and brought about a collision between
them which not only lasted during their lives, but was also carried on by their friends and
relatives long afterwards. It is doubtful if Jackson would have contested Morton's claim without
European support.

With true dignity of character Doctor Morton declined to divide the Mouthyon prize with Doctor
Jackson, and the French Academy accordingly had a large gold medal stamped in his honor, and
as this did not exhaust the original donation, the remainder of the sum was expended on a highly
ornamental case. The trustees of the Massachusetts Hospital partly subscribed and partly collected
a thousand dollars which they presented to Doctor Morton in a handsome silver casket. The King
of Sweden sent him the Cross of the Order of Wasa; and he also received the Cross of the Order
of St. Vladimir from the Tsar of Russia. He was only twenty-seven years of age at this time.

The ensuing eight years of Morton's life were spent in a desperate effort for recognition--recognition
of the importance of his discovery and of his own merits as the discoverer. No one can blame
him for this. As events proved, it would have been far better for him if he had finished his
course at the medical-school and set up his sign in the vicinity of Beacon Street; but the
wisest man can but dimly foresee the future. Doctor Morton had every reason to believe that
there was a fortune to be made in etherization. He consulted Rufus Choate, who advised him
to obtain a patent or proprietary right in his discovery. Hon. Caleb Eddy undertook to do this
for him, and being supported by a sound opinion from Daniel Webster, easily obtained it. Now,
however, Morton's troubles began.

He exempted the Massachusetts Hospital from the application of his royalty, and it was only
right that he should do so; but, unfortunately, it was the only large hospital where etherization
was regularly practised. In order to extend its application Doctor Morton secured the services
of three young physicians, practised them in the use of the gas, and paid them a thousand dollars
each to go forth into the world as proselytes of his discovery; but they met everywhere with
a cold reception, and were several times informed that if the Massachusetts Hospital enjoyed
the use of etherization, other hospitals ought to have the same privilege; so that his enterprise
proved of no immediate advantage.

The Mexican War was now at its height, and Doctor Morton offered the use of etherization to
the government for a very small royalty, but his offer was declined by the Secretary of War.
He soon discovered, however, that surgeons in the army and navy were making free use of it,--contrary
to law and the rights of men. Individuals all over the country--dentists and surgeons--were
doing the same thing; and it was more difficult to prevent this than to execute the game-laws.
For such an order of affairs the decision of the French Academy was largely responsible, for
if men only find a shadow of right on the side of self-interest, they are likely enough to
take advantage of it.

Meanwhile Doctor Jackson, with a few friends and a large body of Homoeopaths who acted in opposition
to the regulars of the Massachusetts Hospital, kept up a continual fusillade against Doctor
Morton; but this did him little harm, for early in 1847 the trustees of the hospital decided,
by a unanimous vote, that the honor of discovering etherization properly belonged to him.

Doctor Jackson questioned the justice of this decision, and applied for a reconsideration of
the subject. Whereupon the subject was reconsidered the following year, and the same verdict
rendered as before. Doctor Jackson then carried his case to the Boston Academy of Arts and
Sciences, when Professor Agassiz asked him the pertinent question: "But, Doctor Jackson, did
you make one little experiment?" adding drily, after receiving a negative reply: "It would
have been better if you had."

It is to be regretted that Doctor Jackson should have attacked Doctor Morton's private life
(which appears to have been fully as commendable as his own), and also that R. W. Emerson should
have entered the lists in favor of his brother-in-law. In one of his later books Emerson designates
Doctor Jackson as the discoverer of etherization. This was setting his own judgment above that
of the legal and medical professions, and even above the French Academy; but Emerson had lived
so long in intuitions and poetical concepts that he was not a fairly competent person to judge
of a matter of fact. It is doubtful if he made use of the inductive method of reasoning during
his life.

Doctor Morton sought legal advice in regard to the infringement of his patent rights; but he
found that legal proceedings in such cases were very expensive, and was counselled to apply
to Congress for redress and assistance. This seemed to him a good plan, for if he could exchange
his rights in etherization for a hundred thousand dollars, he would be satisfied; but in the
end it proved a Nessus shirt to strangle the life out of him. He soon found that Congress could
not be moved by a sense of justice, but only by personal influence. He gave up his business
in Boston and went to Washington with his family, but this soon exhausted his slender resources.
Knowing devils informed him that if he wished to obtain a hundred thousand dollars from the
government he would have to expend fifteen or twenty thousand in lobbying, but the idea of
this was hateful to him, and he declined to make the requisite pledges.

The winter of 1850 and of 1851 passed without result, until finally in December of the latter
year, Bissel, of Illinois, made a speech in Doctor Morton's favor, calling attention to the
fact that the government had been pirating his patent, and proposing that the subject be referred
to a committee. Robert Rantoul seconded the motion, and the step was taken. It was considered
better for the chances of success that the proposition should come from a Western man.

This committee continued its meeting throughout the winter and made a thorough-going examination
of the question before it. The frankness and plain character of Doctor Morton's testimony is
much in his favor, and the description he gave of his own proceedings previous to the first
operation in the Massachusetts Hospital show how hard he wrestled with his discovery,--wrestled
like Jacob of old,--working half the night with an instrument-maker to devise a suitable apparatus
for inhalation. Doctor Jackson and Horace Wells also presented their claims to the committee
and were respectfully considered.

The report of this committee is a valuable document,--a study for young lawyers in the sifting
of evidence,--and of itself a severe criticism on the judgment of the French Academy, which
it considered at too great a distance to judge fairly of the circumstances attending the advent
of painless surgery. The committee decided unanimously that Doctor Wells did not carry his
experiments far enough to reach a decided result; that Doctor Jackson's testimony was contradictory
and not much to be depended on; and that the credit of discovering painless surgery properly
appertained to Dr. W. T. G. Morton. They recommended an appropriation of a hundred thousand
dollars to be given to Doctor Morton in return for the free use of etherization by the surgeons
of the army and navy.

A hundred thousand dollars was little enough. The British Government paid thirty thousand pounds
as a gratuity for the discovery of vaccination; and more recently a poor German student made
a much larger sum by the invention of a drug which has since fallen into disuse. Half a million
would not have been more than Morton deserved, and a hundred thousand might have been bestowed
on Wells.

Doctor Morton must have thought now that the clouds were lifting for him at last; but they
soon settled down darker than ever. The committee's report was only printed towards the close
of the session, and Congress, gone rabid over the Presidential election, neglected to consider
it. Neither did it take further action the following winter. A year later a bill was introduced
in the Senate for Doctor Morton's relief, and was ably supported by Douglas, of Illinois, and
Hale, of New Hampshire. It passed the Senate by a small majority, but was defeated by the "mud-gods"
of the House--defeated by men who were pilfering the national treasury in sinecures for their
relatives and supporters. In the history of our government I know of nothing more disgraceful
than this,--except the exculpation of Brooks for his assault on Sumner.

Doctor Morton was a ruined man. His slender means had long since been exhausted, and he had
been running in debt for the past two or three years, as Hawthorne did at the old manse. Even
his house at Wellesley was mortgaged. His business was gone, and his health was shattered.
He felt as a man does in an earthquake. The government could not have treated him more cruelly
unless it had put him to death.

It was now, as a final resort, that he went to see President Pierce, always a kindly man, except
where Kansas affairs were concerned; and Pierce advised him to bring a suit for infringement
of his rights against a surgeon in the navy. Doctor Morton found a lawyer who was willing to
take the risk for a large share of the profits, and gained his case. His house was saved, but
he returned to Wellesley poorer than when he came to Boston to seek his fortune, a youth of
eighteen.

There was great indignation at the Massachusetts Hospital when the result of Doctor Morton's
case before Congress was known there, and soon after his return an effort was made to raise
a substantial testimonial for him. That noble-hearted physician, Dr. Henry I. Bowditch, interested
himself so conspicuously in this that Doctor Morton named his youngest son for him.

A similar effort was made by the medical profession in New York city, and a sufficient sum
obtained to render Doctor Morton moderately comfortable during the remainder of his earthly
existence, and to educate his eldest son.

Doctor Morton's health was too much shattered for professional work now, and he resigned himself
to his fate. He raised cattle at Wellesley, and imported fine cattle as a healthful out-of-door
occupation. In the autumn of 1862 he joined the Army of the Potomac as a volunteer surgeon,
and applied ether to more than two thousand wounded soldiers during the battles of Fredericksburg,
Chancellorsville, and the Wilderness. At the same time Senator Wil- [*printer's error--double
line and missing text] revive the gratuity for Morton in Congress, but the decision of the
French Academy was in men's minds, and a vicious precedent proved stronger than reason.

I saw Doctor Morton for the last time about nine months before his death; and the impression
his appearance made on me was indelible. He was walking in the path before his house with his
eldest daughter, and he seemed like the victim of an old Greek tragedy--a noble Oedipus who
had solved the Sphynx's riddle, attended by his faithful Antigone.

In July, 1868, a torrid wave swept over the Northern States which carried off many frail and
delicate persons in the large cities, and Doctor Morton was one of those who suffered from
it. He happened to be in New York City at the time, and went to Central Park to escape the
feeling of suffocation which oppressed him, but never returned alive. He now lies in Mount
Auburn Cemetery, with a modest monument over his grave erected by his Boston friends, with
this epitaph composed by Dr. Jacob Bigelow:

WILLIAM T. G. MORTON

INVENTOR AND REVEALER OF ANAESTHETIC INHALATION BY WHOM, PAIN IN SURGERY WAS ARRESTED AND ANNULLED
BEFORE WHOM, IN ALL TIME, SURGERY WAS AGONY SINCE WHOM, SCIENCE HAS CONTROL OF PAIN

Doctor Morton was a self-made man, but not a rough diamond,--rather one of Nature's gentlemen.
The pleasant urbanity of his manner was so conspicuous that no person of sensibility could
approach him without being impressed by it. His was a character such as those who live by academic
rules would be more likely to misjudge than to comprehend.

The semi-centennial of painless surgery was celebrated, in 1896, in Boston, New York, London,
and other cities, and the credit of its discovery was universally awarded to William T. G.
Morton. About the same time it happened that the Massachusetts State House was reconstructed,
and William Endicott, as Commissioner, and a near relative of Robert Rantoul, had Morton's
name emblazoned in the Hall of Fame with those of Franklin, Morse, and Bell. This may be said
to have decided the controversy; but, like many another benefactor of mankind, Doctor Morton's
reward on earth was a crown of thorns.

LEAVES FROM A ROMAN DIARY

February, 1869

(Rewritten in 1897)

As I look out of P----'s windows on the Via Frattina every morning at the plaster bust of Pius
IX., I like his face more and more, and feel that he is not an unworthy companion to George
Washington and the young Augustus. [Footnote: Three busts in a row.] I think there may be something
of the fox, or rather of the crow, in his composition, but his face has the wholeness of expression
which shows a sound and healthy mind,--not a patchwork character. I was pleased to hear that
he was originally a liberal; and the first, after the long conservative reaction of Metternich,
to introduce reforms in the states of the Church. The Revolution of 1848 followed too quickly,
and the extravagant proceedings of Mazzini and Garibaldi drove him into the ranks of the conservatives,
where he has remained ever since. Carlyle compared him to a man who had an old tin-kettle which
he thought he would mend, but as soon as he began to tinker it the thing went to pieces in
his hands. The Revolution of 1848 proved an unpractical experiment, but it opened the way for
Victor Emanuel and a more sound liberalism in 1859.

We attended service at the Sistine Chapel yesterday in company with two young ladies from Philadelphia,
who wore long black veils so that Pius IX. might not catch the least glimpse of their pretty
faces. I was disappointed in my hope of obtaining a view of the Pope's face. Cardinal Bonaparte
sat just in front of us, a man well worth observing. He looks to be the ablest living member
of that family, and bears a decided resemblance to the old Napoleon. His features are strong,
his eyes keen, and he wears his red cap in a jaunty manner on the side of his head. When the
blessing was passed around the conclave of Cardinals, Bonaparte transferred it to his next
neighbor as if he meant to put it through him. It is supposed that he will be the successor
of Pius IX.; but, as Rev. Samuel Longfellow says, that will depend very much upon whether Louis
Napoleon is alive at the time of the election.

The singing in the Sistine Chapel is not worth listening to, besides having unpleasant associations;
so during the service we had an excellent opportunity to study Michael Angelo's Last Judgment--for
there was nothing else to be done.

Kugler considers the picture an inharmonious composition, and that nothing could be more disagreeable
than the stout figure of St. Bartholomew holding a flaying knife in one hand and his own mortal
hide in the other. This is not a pleasant spectacle; but Michael Angelo did not paint for other
people's pleasure, but rather to satisfy his own conscience. It was customary to introduce
St. Bartholomew in this manner, for there was no other way in which he could be identified.
We found the towering form of St. Christopher on the left side of the Saviour rather more of
an eyesore than St. Bartholomew, whose expression of awe partially redeems his appearance.

The Saviour has a herculean frame, but his face and head are magnificent. He has no beard,
and his hair is arranged in festoons which gives the impression of a wreath of grape leaves.
The expression of his face is the noblest I have seen in any work of art in Rome; the face
that has risen through suffering; calm, compassionate, immutable. The Madonna seems like a
girl beside this stalwart form, and she draws close to her son with naive timidity at the vast
concourse which crowds about them. Her face is expressive of resignation and compassion rather
than any joyful feeling.

The left side of this vast painting, in which the bodies of men and women are rising from their
graves, is less interesting than the right side, where the saints and blessed are gathered
together above and the sinners are hurled down below. Michael Angelo's saints and apostles
look like vigorous men of affairs, and are all rather stout and muscular. The attitudes of
some of them are by no means conventional, but they are natural and unconstrained. St. Peter,
holding forth the keys, is a magnificent figure. The group of the saved who are congregated
above the saints is the pleasantest portion of the picture. Here Damion and Pythias embrace
each other; a young husband springs to greet the wife whom he lost too early; a poor unfortunate
to whom life was a curse is timidly raising his eyes, scarcely believing that he is in paradise;
men with fine philosophic heads converse together; and a number of honest serving- women express
their astonishment with such gestures as are customary among that class of persons.

In the lunettes above, wingless angels are hovering with the cross, the column, and other instruments
of Christ's agony, which they clasp with a loving devotion. In the lower right-hand corner,
Charon appears (taken from pagan mythology) with a boat-load of sinners, whom he smites with
his oar according to Dante's description. He is truly a terrible demon, and his fiery eyes
gleam across the length of the chapel. Minos, who receives the boat-load in the likeness of
Biagio da Cesena, the pope's master of ceremonies, is another to match him. A modern fop with
banged hair is stepping from the boat to the shore of hell. This is said to be the best painted
portion of the picture,--most life-like and free from mannerism. It is a mighty work, and too
little appreciated, like many other works of art, chiefly owing to the critics, who do not
understand it, and write a lingo of their own which is not easy to make out and does not come
to much after all. [Footnote: All this shows what a heart there was in Michael Angelo, and
dissipates the assertion of a recent English biographer that Michael Angelo painted masks instead
of faces, with little or no expression.]

After the service we went into St. Peter's with the ladies, and walked the whole circuit of
the church. Our ladies talked meanwhile exactly as they might at an American watering-place,
without apparently observing anything about them. When we came to the statue of St. Peter,
P---- said, pointing to the big toe: "You see there the mischief that can be done by too much
kissing." Nearly a third of the toe has been worn away by the oscular applications of the faithful.

Feb. 4.--Dr. B. B. Appleton, an American resident of Florence, is here on a flying visit. We
have heard from many sources of the kindness of this man to American travellers, especially
to young students. In fact, he took P---- into his house while at Florence, and entertained
him in the most generous manner. He has done the same for Mrs. Julia Ward Howe and many others.
He lives with an Italian family who were formerly in the service of the Grand Duke of Tuscany,
and who were ruined by the recent change of rulers. Dr. Appleton boards with them, and helps
to support them in other ways. In spite of his goodness he does not seem to be happy.

One of his chief friends in Florence is Fraulein Assig, who was banished from Prussia together
with her publisher for editing Von Humboldt's memoirs, which were perhaps too severely critical
of the late king of Prussia. The book, however, had an excellent sale, and she now lives contentedly
in Florence, where she is well acquainted both with prominent liberals and leading members
of the government. Dr. Appleton reports that a cabinet officer lately said to her, "We may
move to Rome at any time."

Louis Napoleon is the main-stay of the papacy, and the only one it has. The retrocession of
Venetia to Italy has separated Austria effectually from the states of the Church, and the Spaniards
are too much taken up with their internal affairs to interfere at present in the pope's behalf.
Napoleon's health is known to be delicate, and prayers for his preservation are offered up
daily in Roman churches. If he should die before his son comes of age great political changes
may be looked for.

Meanwhile murmurs of discontent are heard on all sides. The city is unclean and badly cared
for. The civil offices are said to be filled mainly with nephews of cardinals and other prelates.
Even Italians of the lower classes know enough of political economy to foresee that if Rome
was the capital of Italy it would be more prosperous than it is at present. The value of land
would rise, and all the small trades would flourish. This is what is really undermining the
power of Pius IX. A most curious sign of the times is the general belief among the Roman populace
that the Pope has an evil eye. How long since this originated I have not been able to learn;
but it is not uncommon for those who chance to see the pope in his carriage, especially women,
to go immediately into the nearest church for purification. A few days since the train from
Rome to Florence ran into a buffalo, and the locomotive was thrown off the track. Even this
was attributed to the fact that the engineer had encountered the pope near the Quirinal the
previous Sunday.

Dr. Appleton told us a story at dinner about the youth of Louis Napoleon. His Florentine housekeeper,
Gori, remembers Hortense and her two sons very distinctly; for Louis once met him in the Boboli
Gardens and insisted on his smoking a cigar, in order to laugh at him when it had made him
sick,--as it was Gori's first experience with tobacco. He also says that on one occasion when
the young princes had some sort of a feast together, the others all gave the caterer from five
to ten francs as a pour-boir, but Louis Napoleon gave him a twenty-franc piece. When his companions
expressed their surprise at this Louis said: "It is only right that I should do so, for some
day I shall be Emperor."

As a rule few Italian men attend church. The women go; but the men, if not heretical, are at
least rather indifferent, on the subject of religion. Macaulay refers to this fact in his essay
on Macchiavelli, and Dr. Appleton, who has lived among them, knows it to be true. To make amends
for it, English and American ladies are returning to the fold of St. Peter in large numbers;
and many of them bring their male relatives eventually with them. I believe this to be largely
a matter of fashion. They have always accepted the Protestant creed as a matter of course,
and coming here, where they are separated from all previous associations, they find themselves
out of tune with their surroundings. They feel lonely, as all travellers do at times, and being
in need of sympathy are easily impressed by those about them. Most of them have Catholic maids,
who often serve as stepping-stones to the acquaintance of the priest. Conversion gives them
a kind of importance, which Catholic ladies of rank know how to make the most of. The external
grandeur of Catholicism as we see it here has also its due influence.

Feb. 9.--I was greatly disgusted last evening while calling on two New England ladies, who
were formerly my schoolmates, to have a pompous priest walk in and take possession of the parlor,
spoiling my pleasant tete-a-tete. He sat in the middle of the room like a pail of water, and
stared about in the most ill-mannered way. My friends remarked that he was the abbate of the
Pantheon, and he inquired if I had been to see it; to which I replied that I had, and that
I considered it the noblest building in Rome. This seemed to be a new idea to him, and one
which he did not altogether like. Not long since I came upon a priest drinking wine with some
young artists, and laughing at jokes for which a stage-driver might be ashamed. There are fine
exceptions among them, but as a class they appear to me coarse and even vicious,--by no means
spiritually attractive. Monks are not attractive either, but in their way they are much more
interesting. Religion seems to be meat and drink to them.

P---- and I were invited to dine by an American Catholic lady who was formerly a friend of
Margaret Fuller, and who having been incautiously left in Rome by her husband, embraced Catholicism
before he was fairly across the Atlantic,--to his lasting sorrow and vexation. Being in an
influential position she has made many converts, and it is said that she has come to Rome on
the present occasion to be sainted by the pope. She has already loaned P---- a biography of
Father Lacordaire, which he has not had leisure to read. He referred to it, as soon as politeness
permitted, with a shrewd inquiry as to whether the book did not give rather a rose-colored
view of practical Catholicism. Mrs. X---- turned to her daughters and said with all imaginable
sweetness: "Just hear him,-- the poor child!" Then she went off into a long, eloquent, and
really interesting discourse on the true, sole, and original Christian Church. She admitted,
however, that during the sixteenth century the Christian faith had much fallen into decay,
and that Martin Luther was not to be blamed for his exhortations against the evil practices
of popes and cardinals. Now that the Church had been reformed it was altogether different.
She told us how she became converted. It came to her like a vision on a gloomy winter day,
while she was looking into the embers of a wood-fire.

Then she talked about Margaret Fuller, whom she called the most brilliant woman she had ever
known. She had never loved another woman so much; but it was a dangerous love. If she wrote
a rather gushing letter to Margaret, she would receive in reply, "How could you have written
so beautifully! You must have been inspired." This, she said, had all the effect of flattery
without being intended for it, and was so much the more mischievous. "Emerson and Margaret
Fuller," said Mrs. X----, "put inspiration in the place of religion. They believed that some
people had direct communication with the Almighty." P---- and I thought this might be true
of Miss Fuller, but doubted it in Emerson's case.

Miss X---- told me that she had lately ascended to the rotunda of the Capitol, from which the
pope's flag flies all day, and that she had asked the Swiss guard what he would do if she hoisted
the tricolor there. He replied: "I should shoot you." Nothing could be more kind or truly courteous
than the manner in which these ladies treated us.

Another distinguished convert here is Mrs. Margaret Eveleth, a rare, spirituelle woman, who
was born within a mile of my father's house. She was formerly a Unitarian, but soon became
a Catholic on coming to Rome. While she was in process of transition from one church to the
other she wrote a number of letters to her former pastor in New York, requesting information
on points of faith. Not one of these letters was ever answered, and it is incredible to suppose
that they would not have been if he had received them. It is highly probable that they never
left Rome. I have myself been warned to attach my stamps to letters firmly, so that they may
not be stolen in passing through the Post-office. Postage here is also double what it is in
Florence.

Feb. 12.--I have been looking for some time to find a good picture of Marcus Aurelius, and
have generally become known among Roman photographers as the man who wants the Marc Aureli.
This morning I had just left my room when I discovered Rev. Samuel Longfellow in a photograph
shop in the Via Frattina. "I was just coming to see you," he said; "and I stopped here to look
for a photograph of Marcus Aurelius." He laughed when I told him that I had been on the same
quest, and suggested that we should walk to the Capitol together and look at the statue and
bust of our favorite emperor. "I think he was the greatest of the Romans," said Mr. Longfellow,
"if not the noblest of all the ancients."

So we walked together--as we never shall again--through the long Corso with its array of palaces,
past the column of Aurelius and the fragments of Trajan's forum, until we reached the ancient
Capitol of Rome, rearranged by Michael Angelo. Here we stood before the equestrian statue of
Marcus Aurelius, and considered how it might be photographed to advantage. "I do not think,"
said Rev. Mr. Longfellow, "that we can obtain a satisfactory picture of it. The face is too
dark to be expressive, and it is the man's face that I want; and I suppose you do also."

I asked him how he could explain the creation of such a noble statue in the last decline of
Greek art; he said he would not attempt to explain it except on the ground that things do not
always turn out as critics and historians would have them. It was natural that the arts should
revive somewhat under the patronage of Hadrian and the Antonines.

We went into the museum of the Capitol to look for the bust of the young Aurelius, which shone
like a star (to use Homer's expression) among its fellows, but we discovered from the earth-stains
on portions of it why the photographers had not succeeded better with it. We decided that our
best resource would be to have Mr. Appleton's copy of it photographed, and Rev. Mr. Longfellow
agreed to undertake the business with me in the forenoon of the next day.

The busts of the Roman emperors were interesting because their characters are so strongly marked
in history. The position would seem to have made either brutes or heroes of them. Tiberius,
who was no doubt the natural son of Augustus, resembles him as a donkey does a horse. Caligula,
Nero, and Domitian had small, feminine features; Nero a bullet-head and sensual lips, but the
others quite refined. During the first six years of Nero's reign he was not so bad as he afterwards
became; and I saw an older bust of him in Paris which is too horrible to be looked at more
than once. Vespasian has a coarse face, but wonderfully good-humored; and Titus, called "the
delight of mankind," looks like an improvement on Augustus. The youthful Commodus bears a decided
resemblance to his father, and there is no indication in his face to suggest the monster which
he finally became.

Early in the next forenoon I reached the Hotel Costanzi in good season and inquired for the
Rev. Mr. Longfellow. He soon appeared, together with Mr. T. G. Appleton, who was evidently
pleased at my interest in the young Aurelius, and remarked that it was a more interesting work
than the young Augustus. The bust had been sent to William Story's studio to be cleaned, and
thither we all proceeded in the best possible spirits.

We found a photographer named Giovanni Braccia on the floor a piano above Mr. Story; and after
a lengthy discussion with him, in which Mr. Longfellow was the leading figure, he agreed to
take the photographs at two napoleons a dozen. [Footnote: These pictures proved to be fine
reproductions, and are still to be met with in Boston and Cambridge parlors.] When the bust
was brought in Mr. Longfellow called my attention to the incisions representing pupils in the
eyes, which he said were a late introduction in sculpture, and not generally considered an
improvement. After this Mr. Appleton called to us to come with him to the studio of an English
painter in the same building, whose name I cannot now recollect. He was the type of a graceful,
animated young artist, and had just finished a painting representing ancient youths and maidens
in a procession with the light coming from the further side, so that their faces were mostly
in shadow, with bright line along the profile,--an effect which it requires skill to render.

On returning to the street we looked into Mr. Story's outer room again, where the casts of
all his statues were seated in a double row like persons at a theatre. Mr. Appleton was rather
severe in his criticism of them, though he admitted that the Cleopatra (which I believe was
a replica) had a finely modulated face.

Feb. 15.--Warrington Wood invited P---- and myself to lunch with him in his studio, and at
the appointed time a waiter appeared from the Lapre with a great tin box on his shoulder filled
with spaghetti, roast goat, and other Italian dishes. We had just spread these on a table in
front of the clay model of Michael and Satan, when Wood's marble- cutter rushed in to announce
the King and Queen of Naples. Wood hastily threw a green curtain over the dishes, while P----
and I retreated to the further end of the room.

The Queen of Naples is a fine-looking and spirited person, still quite young, and talks English
well. She conversed with Wood and asked him a number of questions about his group, and also
about the stag-hound, Eric, that was standing sentinel. The King said almost nothing, and moving
about as if he know not what to do with himself, finally backed up against the table where
our lunch was covered by the green cloth. I think he had an idea of sitting down on it, but
the dishes set up such a clatter that he beat a hasty retreat. The King did not move a muscle
of his countenance, but the Queen looked around and said something to him in Italian, laughing
pleasantly. She is said to be friendly to Americans and is quite intimate with Miss Harriet
Hosmer. She is at least a woman of noble courage, and when Garibaldi besieged Naples she went
on to the ramparts and rallied the soldiers with the shells bursting about her.

They subscribed themselves in Wood's register under the name of Bourbon, and after their departure
we found our lunch cold, but perhaps we relished it better for this visitation of royalty.
Then we all went to the carnival, where an Italian lazzaroni attempted to pick Wood's pocket,
but was caught in the act and soundly kicked by Wood.

This was the most entertaining event of the afternoon. The best part of the carnival was the
quantity of fresh flowers that were brought in from the country and sold at very moderate prices.
P---- distinguished himself throwing bouquets to ladies in the balconies. It is said that he
has an admirer among them. For the first hour or so I found it entertaining enough, but after
that I became weary of its endless repetition. Eighty years since Goethe, seated in one of
these balconies, was obliged to ask for paper and pencil to drive away ennui, as he afterwards
confessed. The carnival now is almost entirely given up to the English and Americans; while
many of the lower class of Italians mix in it disguised in masks and fancy dresses. Four masked
young women greeted us with confetti and danced about me on the sidewalk. One tipped up my
hat behind and another whispered a name in my ear which I did not suppose was known in Europe.
I have not yet discovered who they were.

Feb. 19.--I have had the pleasure of dining with that remarkable woman and once distinguished
actress, Miss Charlotte Cushman. Her nephew was consul at Rome, appointed by William II. Seward,
who was one of her warmest American friends. She is still queen of the stage, and of her own
household, and unconsciously gives orders to the servants in a dramatic manner which is sometimes
very amusing. So it was to hear her sing, "Mary, call the cattle home," as if she were sending
for the heavy artillery. She impresses me, however, as one of the most genuine of womankind;
and her conversation is delightful,--so sympathetic, appreciative, full of strong good sense,
and fresh original views. She has small mercy on newly-converted Catholics. "The faults of
men," she said, "are chiefly those of strength, but the faults of my own sex arise from weakness."
I happened to refer to Mr. Appleton's bust of Aurelius, and she said she was surprised he had
purchased it, for it did not seem to her a satisfactory copy; a conclusion that I had been
slowly coming to myself. She has a bronze replica of Story's "Beethoven" which, like most of
his statues, is seated in a chair, and a rather realistic work, as Miss Cushman admitted. I
judged from the conversation at table that she is not treated with full respect by the English
and American society here, although looked upon as a distinguished person. The reason for this
may be more owing to the social position of her relatives than her former profession. Mrs.
Trelawney, the wife of Byron's eccentric friend, spoke of her to me a few days ago in terms
of the highest esteem. She is a great-hearted woman, and her presence would be a moral power
anywhere.

There is snobbishness enough in Rome--English, American, and Italian. Doolittle, who is the
son of a highly respectable New York lawyer, went to the hunt last week, as he openly confessed,
to give himself distinction. A young lady was thrown from her horse, and he was the first person
to come to her assistance. She thanked him for it at the time, but two days afterwards declined
to recognize his acquaintance. This was probably because he was an artist, or rather sets up
for one, for he is more like a gentleman of leisure.

MY LAST VISIT TO THE LONGFELLOWS.

The Longfellow party will soon depart for Naples, and I went to the Costanzi to make my final
call. Mr. Henry W. Longfellow was alone in his parlor cutting the leaves of a large book. He
said that his brother had gone to the Pincion with the ladies, but would probably return soon.
Everything this man says and does has the same grace and elevated tone as his poetry. I took
a chair and pretty soon he said to me, "How do you like your books, Mr. S----? For my part,
I prefer to cut the leaves of a book, for then I feel as if I had earned the right to read
it." I replied that I liked books with rough edges if they were printed on good paper; and
then he said, "See this remarkable picture."

I drew my chair closer to him, and he showed me a large colored chart of Hell and Purgatory,
according to the theory that prevailed in Dante's time. Satan with his three faces was represented
in the centre, and on the other side rose the Mount of Purgatory.

"It is an Italian commentary," he said, "on the Divina Commedia," which had been sent to him
that day; and he added that some of the information in it was of a very curious sort.

I asked him if he could read Italian as easily as English. "Very nearly," he replied; "but
the fine points of Italian are as difficult as those of German."

He inquired how I and my friends spent our evenings in Rome, and I said, "In all kinds of study
and reading, but just now P---- was at work on Browning's 'Ring and the Book.'"

Mr. Longfellow laughed. "I do not wonder you call it work," he said. "It seems to me a story
told in so many different ways may be something of a curiosity--not much of a poem." [Footnote:
I have since observed that poets as a class are not fair critics of poetry; for they are sure
to prefer poetry which is like their own. This is true at least of Lowell, Emerson, or Matthew
Arnold; but when I came to read "The Ring and the Book" I found that Longfellow's objection
was a valid one.]

I remarked that Rev. Mr. Longfellow had a decided partiality for Browning. "Yes," he said;
"Sam likes him, and my friend John Weiss prefers him to Tennyson. My objection is to his diction.
I have always found the English language sufficient for my purpose, and have never tried to
improve on it. Browning's 'Saul' and 'The Ride from Ghent to Aix' are noble poems."

"Carlyle also," I said, "has a peculiar diction." "That is true," he replied, "but one can
forgive anything to a writer who has so much to tell us as Carlyle. Besides, he writes prose,
and not poetry."

He took up a photograph which was lying on the table and showed it to me, saying, "How do you
like Miss Stebbins's 'Satan'?" I told him I hardly knew how to judge of such a subject. Then
we both laughed, and Mr. Longfellow said: "I wonder what our artists want to make Satans for.
I doubt if there is one of them that believes in the devil's existence."

I noticed on closer examination that the features resembled those of Miss Stebbins herself.
Mr. Longfellow looked at it closely, and said, "So it does,--somewhat." Then I told him that
I asked Warrington Wood how he obtained the expression for his head of Satan, and that he said
he did it by looking in the glass and making up faces. Mr. Longfellow laughed heartily at this,
saying, "I suppose Miss Stebbins did the same, and that is how it came about. Our sculptors
should be careful how they put themselves in the devil's place. Wood has modelled a fine angel,
and his group (Michael and Satan) is altogether an effective one."

Rev. Mr. Longfellow and the ladies now came in, and as it was late I shook hands with them all.

It is reported that when Mr. Longfellow met Cardinal Antonelli he remarked that Rome had changed
less in the last fifteen years than other large cities, and that Antonelli replied, "Yes; God
be praised for it!"

Feb. 25.--The elder Herbert [Footnote: The elder of two brothers, sons of an English artist.]
has painted a fine picture, and we all went to look at it this afternoon, as it will be packed
up to-morrow for the Royal Exhibition at London. He has chosen for his subject the verse of
a Greek poet, otherwise unknown:

  "Unyoke your oxen, you fellow,
  And take the coulter out of your plough;
  For you are ploughing amid the graves of men,
  And the dust you turn up is the dust of your ancestors."

Herbert has substituted buffalos for oxen as being more picturesque, though they were not imported
into Italy until some time in the Middle Ages. It is generally predicted that Herbert will
become an R. A. like his father; but the subject is even more to his credit than his treatment
of it. It is discussed at the Lapre whether this verse has been equalled by Tennyson or Longfellow,
and the conclusion was: "Not proven."

March 1.--The Longfellows are gone, and Rome is filling up with a different class of people
who have come here to witness the fatiguing spectacles of Easter. One look at Michael Angelo's
"Last Judgment" would be worth the whole of it to me.

P---- is said to have captured his young lady, and it seems probable, for I see very little
of him now. He disappears after breakfast, rushes through his dinner, and returns late in the
evenings. So all the world changes.

CENTENNIAL CONTRIBUTIONS

THE ALCOTT CENTENNIAL

Read at the Second Church, Copley Square, Boston, Wednesday, November 29, 1899

A hundred years ago A. Bronson Alcott was born, and thirty-three years later his daughter Louisa
was born, happily on the same day of the year, as if for this very purpose,--that you might
testify your appreciation of the good work they did in this world, at one and the same moment.
It was a fortunate coincidence, which we like to think of to-day, as it undoubtedly gave pleasure
to Bronson Alcott and his wife sixty-seven years ago.

How genuine were Mr. Alcott and his daughter, Louisa! "All else," says the sage, "is superficial
and perishable, save love and truth only." It is through the love and truth that was in these
two that we still feel their influence as if they were living to-day. How well I recollect
Mr. Alcott's first visit to my father's house at Medford, when I was a boy! I had the same
impression of him then that the consideration of his life makes on me now,--as an exceptional
person, but one greatly to be trusted. I could see that he was a man who wished well to me,
and to all mankind; who had no intention of encroaching on my rights as an individual in any
way whatever; and who, furthermore, had no suspicion of me as a person alien to himself. The
criticism made of him by my young brother held good of him then and always,--that "he looked
like one of Christ's disciples." His aspect was intelligently mild and gentle, unmixed with
the slightest taint of worldly self-interest.

He heard that Goethe had said, "We begin to sin as soon as we act;" but he did not agree to
this, and was determined that one man at least should live in this world without sinning. He
carried this plan out so consistently that, as he once confessed to me, it brought him to the
verge of starvation. Then he realized that in order to play our part in the general order of
things,--in order to obviate the perpetual tendency in human affairs to chaos,--we are continually
obliged to compromise. However, to the last he would never touch animal food. Others might
murder sheep and oxen, but he, Bronson Alcott, would not be a partaker in what he considered
a serious transgression of moral law. This brought him into antagonism with the current of
modern opinion, which considers man the natural ruler of this earth, and that it is both his
right and his duty to remodel it according to his ideas of usefulness and beauty.

It brought him into a life-long conflict with society, but how gallantly, how amiably he carried
this on you all know. It cannot be said that he was defeated, for his spirit was unconquerable.
His purity of intention always received its true recognition; and wherever Bronson Alcott went
he collected the most earnest, high-minded people about him, and made them more earnest, more
high-minded by his conversation.

How different was his daughter, Louisa,--the keen observer of life and manners; the witty story-teller
with the pictorial mind; always sympathetic, practical, helpful--the mainstay of her family,
a pillar of support to her friends; forgetting the care of her own soul in her interest for
the general welfare; heedless of her own advantage, and thereby obtaining for herself as a
gift from heaven, the highest of all advantages, and the greatest of all rewards!

And yet, with so wide a difference in the practical application of their lives, the well-spring
of Louisa's thought and the main-spring of her action were identical with those of her father,
and may be considered an inheritance from him. For the well-spring of her thought was truth,
and the main-spring of her action was love. There can be no fine art, no great art, no art
which is of service to mankind, which does not originate on this twofold basis. We are told
that when she was a young girl, on a voyage from Philadelphia to Boston, her face suddenly
lighted up with the true brightness of genius, as she said, "I love everybody in this whole
world!" If, afterwards, a vein of satire came to be mingled with this genial flow of human
kindness, it was not Louisa's fault.

In like manner, Bronson Alcott rested his argument for immortality on the ground of the family
affections. "Such strong ties," he reasoned, "could not have been made merely to be broken."
Let us share his faith, and believe that they have not been broken.

THE EMERSON CENTENNIAL

EMERSON AND THE GREAT POETS

Read in the Town Hall, Concord, Mass., July 23, 1903

On his first visit to England, Emerson was so continually besieged with invitations that, as
he wrote to Carlyle, answering the notes he received "ate up his day like a cherry;" and yet
I have never met but one Englishman, Dr. John Tyndall, the chemist, who seemed to appreciate
Emerson's poetry, and few others who might be said to appreciate the man himself. Tyndall may
have recognized Emerson's keen insight for the poetry of science in such verses as:

  "What time the gods kept carnival;
    Tricked out in gem and flower;
  And in cramp elf and saurian form
    They swathed their too much power."

A person who lacks some knowledge of geology would not be likely to understand this. Matthew
Arnold and Edwin Arnold had no very high opinion of Emerson's poetry; and even Carlyle, who
was Emerson's best friend in Europe, spoke of it in rather a disparaging manner. The "Mountain
and the Squirrel" and several others have been translated into German, but not those which
we here consider the best of them.

On the other hand, Dr. William H. Furness considered Emerson "heaven-high above our other poets;"
C. P. Cranch preferred him to Longfellow; Dr. F. H. Hedge looked upon him as the first poet
of his time; Rev. Samuel Longfellow and Rev. Samuel Johnson held a very similar opinion, and
David A. Wasson considered Emerson's "Problem" one of the great poems of the century.

These men were all poets themselves, though they did not make a profession of it, and in that
character were quite equal to Matthew Arnold, whose lecture on Emerson was evidently written
under unfavorable influences. They were men who had passed through similar experiences to those
which developed Emerson's mind and character, and could therefore comprehend him better than
others. We all feel that Emerson's poetry is sometimes too abstruse, especially in his earlier
verses, and that its meaning is often too recondite for ready apprehension; but there are passages
in it so luminous and so far-reaching in their application that only the supreme poets of all
time have equalled them.

Homer's strength consists in his pictorial descriptions, but also sometimes in pithy reflections
on life and human nature; and it is in these latter that Emerson often comes close to him.
Most widely known of Homer's epigrams is that reply of Telemachus to Antiochus in the Odyssey,
which Pope has rendered:

  "True hospitality is in these terms expressed,
  Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest."

The wise man carries rest and contentment in his own mental life, and is equally himself at
the Corona d'Italia and on a western ranch; while the weakling runs back to earlier associations
like a colt to its stable. But Homer is also Emersonian at times. What could be more so than
Achilles's memorable saying, which is repeated by Ulysses in the Odyssey: "More hateful to
me than the gates of death is he who thinks one thing and speaks another;" or this exclamation
of old Laertes in the last book of the Odyssey: "What a day is this when I see my son and grandson
contending in excellence!"

It seems a long way from Dante to Emerson, and yet there are Dantean passages in "Woodnotes"
and "Voluntaries." They are not in Dante's matchless measure, but they have much of his grace,
and more of his inflexible will. This warning against mercenary marriages might be compared
to Dante's answer to the embezzling Pope Nicholas III. in Canto XIX. of the Inferno:

  "He shall be happy in his love,
  Like to like shall joyful prove;
  He shall be happy whilst he woos,
  Muse-born, a daughter of the Muse.
  But if with gold she bind her hair,
  And deck her breast with diamond,
  Take off thine eyes, thy heart forbear,
  Though thou lie alone on the ground.
  The robe of silk in which she shines,
  It was woven of many sins;
  And the shreds
  Which she sheds
  In the wearing of the same,
  Shall be grief on grief,
  And shame on shame."

There is a Spartan-like severity in this, but so was Dante very severe. It was his mission
to purify the moral sense of his countrymen in an age when the Church no longer encouraged
virtue; and Emerson no less vigorously opposed the rank materialism of America in a period
of exceptional prosperity.

The next succeeding lines are not exactly Dantean, but they are among Emerson's finest, and
worthy of any great poet.

Again we are reminded of Dante in the opening passages of "Voluntaries":

  "Low and mournful be the strain,
    Haughty thought be far from me;
  Where a captive lies in pain
    Moaning by the tropic sea.

Or this one from the "Building of the House"--considered metaphorically as the life structure
of man:

  "She lays her beams in music,
     In music every one,
   To the cadence of the whirling world
     Which dances round the sun."

There is a flash as of heaven's own lightning in some of his verses, and his name has become
a spell to conjure with.

THE HAWTHORNE CENTENNIAL

HAWTHORNE AS ART CRITIC

When the "Marble Faun" was first published the art criticism in it, especially of sculptors
and painters who were then living, created a deal of discussion, which has been revived again
by the recent centennial celebration. Hawthorne himself was the most perfect artist of his
time as a man of letters, and the judgment of such a person ought to have its value, even when
it relates to subjects which are beyond the customary sphere of his investigations, and for
which he has not made a serious preparation. In spite of the adage, "every man to his own trade,"
it may be fairly asserted that much of Hawthorne's art criticism takes rank among the finest
that has been written in any language. On the other hand, there are instances, as might be
expected, in which he has failed to hit the mark.

These latter may be placed in two classes: Firstly, those in which he indicates a partiality
for personal acquaintances; and secondly, those in which he has followed popular opinion at
the time, or the opinion of others, without sufficient consideration.

American society in Rome is always split up into various cliques,--which is not surprising
in view of the adventitious manner in which it comes together there,--and in Hawthorne's time
the two leading parties were the Story and the Crawford factions. The latter was a man of true
genius, and not only the best of American sculptors, but perhaps the greatest sculptor of the
nineteenth century. His statue of Beethoven is in the grand manner, and instinct with harmony,
not only in attitude and expression, but even to the arrangement of the drapery. Crawford's
genius was only too well appreciated, and he was constantly carrying off the prizes of his
art from all competitors. Consequently it was inevitable that other sculptors should be jealous
of him, and should unite together for mutual protection. Story was a man of talent, and not
a little of an amateur, but he was the gentlemanly entertainer of those Americans who came
to the city with good letters of introduction. Hawthorne evidently fell into Story's hands.
He speaks slightingly of Crawford, and praises Story's statue of Cleopatra in unqualified terms;
and yet there seems to have been an undercurrent of suspicion in his mind, for he says more
than once in the "Marble Faun" that it would appear to be a failing with sculptors to speak
unfavorably of the work of other sculptors, and this, of course, refers to those with whom
he was acquainted, and whom he sometimes rated above their value.

Warrington Wood, the best English sculptor of thirty years ago, praised Story's "Cleopatra"
to me, and I believe that Crawford also would have praised it. The whole figure of Story's
"Cleopatra" suffers from it.

Hawthorne was an idealist, and he idealized the materials in Story's studio, for literary purposes,
just as Shakespeare idealized Henry V., who was not a magnanimous monarch at all, but a brutal,
narrow-minded fighter. The discourse on art, which he develops in this manner, forms one of
the most valuable chapters in the "Marble Faun." It assists us in reading it to remember that
Story was not the model for Hawthorne's "Kenyon," but a very different character. He recognizes
the Laocoon for what it really is, the abstract type of a Greek tragedy. He notices what has
since been proved by severe archaeological study, that most of the possible types and attitudes
of marble statues had been exhausted by the Greeks long before the Christian era. Miss Hosmer's
Zenobia was originally a Ceres, and even Crawford's Orpheus strongly resembles a figure in
the Niobe group at Florence.

But Hawthorne's description of the Faun of Praxiteles stands by itself. As a penetrative analysis
of a great sculptor's motive it is unequalled by any modern writer on art, and this is set
forth with a grace and delicacy worthy of Praxiteles himself. The only criticism which one
feels inclined to make of it is that it too Hawthornish, too modern and elaborate; but is not
this equally true of all modern criticism? We cannot return to the simplicity of the Greeks
any more than we can to their customs. If Hawthorne would seem to discover too much in this
statue, which is really a poor Roman copy, he has himself given us an answer to this objection.
In Volume II., Chapter XII., he says: "Let the canvas glow as it may, you must look with the
eye of faith, or its highest excellence escapes you. There is always the necessity of helping
out the painter's art with your own resources of sensibility and imagination." His cursory
remarks on Raphael are not less pertinent and penetrating. Of technicalities he knew little,
but no one, perhaps, has sounded such depths of that clairvoyant master's nature, and so brought
to light the very soul of him.

The "Marble Faun" may not be the most perfect of Hawthorne's works, but it is much the greatest,--an
epic romance, which can only be compared with Goethe's "Wilhelm Meister."

HAWTHORNE AND HAMLET.

A Reply to Professor Bliss Perry.

To compare a person in real life with a character in fiction is not uncommon, but it is more
conducive to solidity of judgment to compare the living with the living, and the imaginary
with the imaginary. The chief difficulty, however, in Hamlet's case, is that he only appears
before us as a person acting in an abnormal mental condition. The mysterious death of his father,
the suspicion of his mother's complicity in crime, which takes the form of an apparition from
beyond the grave, is too much of a strain for his tender and impressible nature. His mental
condition has become well known to physicians as cerebral hyperaemia, and all his strange speeches
and eccentric actions are to be traced to this source; and it is for this reason that the dispute
has arisen as to whether Hamlet was not partially insane. If the strain continued long enough
he would no doubt have become insane.

As well as we can penetrate through this adventitious nimbus, we discover Hamlet to be a person
of generous, princely nature, high-minded and chivalrous. He is cordial to every one, but always
succeeds in asserting the superiority of his position, even in his conversation with Horatio.
If he is mentally sensitive he shows no indication of it. He never appears shy or reserved,
but on the contrary, confident and even bold. This may be owing to the mental excitement under
which he labors; but the best critics from Goethe down have accredited him with a lack of resolution;
and it is this which produces the catastrophe of the play. He must have realized, as we all
do, that after the scene of the players in which he "catches the conscience of a king," his
life was in great danger. He should either have organized a conspiracy at once, or fled to
the court of Fortinbras; but he allows events to take their course, and is controlled by them
instead of shaping his own destiny. Instead of planning and acting he philosophizes.

