A VISIT TO THE UNITED STATES IN 1841

BY JOSEPH STURGE

1842

BOSTON: DEXTER S. KING, NO. 1 CORNHILL.

COWPER.

    Preface to the American Edition

    Preface to the English Edition

    A Visit, &c.

    General Observations

    Appendix A: ANTI-SLAVERY EPISTLE OF "FRIENDS" IN GREAT BRITAIN.

    Appendix B: EARLY EFFORTS OF "FRIENDS" IN BEHALF OF NEGRO

    Appendix C: Report of the Committee of the Yearly Meeting of
    Friends, &c.

    Appendix D: ELISHA TYSON.

    Appendix E: THE "AMISTAD CAPTIVES"

    Appendix F: Extract from an Essay by WILLIAM JAY

    Appendix G: OPIUM WAR WITH CHINA.

    Appendix H: LETTER OF A.L. PENNOCK.

    Appendix I: GERRIT SMITH'S SLAVES.

    Appendix K: The Society of Friends in America and the
    Colonization Society

    Appendix L: Memorial of citizens of Boston, United States, to
    the Lords of the Admiralty, Great Britain.

PREFACE

TO THE AMERICAN EDITION.

Within a few years past, several of our visitors from the other side of the Atlantic, have
published their views of our country and her institutions. Basil Hall, Hamilton and others,
in their attempts to describe the working of the democratic principle in the United States,
have been unfavorably influenced by their opposite political predilections. On the other hand,
Miss Martineau, who has strong republican sympathies, has not, at all times, been sufficiently
careful and discriminating in the facts and details of her spirited and agreeable narrative.

The volume of Mr. Sturge, herewith presented, is unlike any of its predecessors. Its author
makes no literary pretensions. His style, like his garb, is of the plainest kind; shorn of
every thing like ornament, it has yet a truthful, earnest simplicity, as rare as it is beautiful.
The reader will look in vain for those glowing descriptions of American scenery, and graphic
delineations of the peculiarities of the American character with which other travellers have
endeavored to enliven and diversify their journals. Coming among us on an errand of peace and
good will--with a heart oppressed and burdened by the woes of suffering humanity--he had no
leisure for curious observations of men and manners, nor even for the gratification of a simple
and unperverted taste for the beautiful in outward nature. His errand led him to the slave-jail
of the negro-trafficker--the abodes of the despised and persecuted colored man--the close walls
of prisons. His narrative, like his own character, is calm, clear, simple; its single and manifest
aim, to do good.

Although this volume is mainly devoted to the subject of emancipation, and to his intercourse
with the religious Society of which he is a member, yet the friends of peace, of legal reform,
and of republican institutions, will derive gratification from its perusal. The liberal spirit
of Christian philanthropy breathes through it. The author's deep and settled detestation of
our slavery, and of the hypocrisy which sustains and justifies it, does not render him blind
to the beauty of the republican principle of popular control, nor repress in any degree his
pleasure in recording its beneficent practical fruits in the free States.

The labors of Mr. Sturge in the cause of emancipation have given him the appellation of the
"Howard of our days." The author of the popular "History of Slavery," page 600, thus notices
his arduous personal investigations of the state of things in the West India Islands, under
the apprenticeship system. "The idea originated with Joseph Sturge, of Birmingham, a member
of that religious body, the FRIENDS, who have ever stood pre-eminent in noiseless but indefatigable
exertions in the cause of the negro; and who seem to possess a more thorough practical understanding
than is generally possessed by statesmen and politicians, of the axiom that the shortest communication
between two given points, is a straight line. While others were speculating, and hoping that
the worst reports from the West Indies might not be true, and that the evils would work their
own cure, this generous and heroic philanthropist, resolved to go himself and ascertain the
facts and the remedy required." On his return, Mr. Sturge, with his companion, Thomas Harvey,
published a full account of their investigations into the working of the apprenticeship system;
and his testimony before the Parliamentary Committee, occupied seven days. His disclosures
sealed the fate of the apprenticeship system. Such a demonstration of popular sentiment was
called forth against it, that the Colonies, one after another, felt themselves under the necessity
of abandoning it for unconditional emancipation. It was a remark of Brougham, in the House
of Lords, that the abolition of the apprenticeship was the work of one man, and that man was
Joseph Sturge.

Mr. Sturge's benevolent labors have not been confined to the abolition of slavery. He is a
prominent member of the Anti-corn Law League. He is an active advocate of the cause of universal
peace. He has given all his influence to the cause of the oppressed and laboring classes of
his own countrymen: and his name is at this moment, the rallying-word of millions, as the author
and patron of the "Suffrage Declaration," which is now in circulation in all parts of the United
Kingdom, pledging its signers to the great principle of universal suffrage--a full, fair and
free representation of the people. It was reserved for the untitled Quaker of Birmingham to
take the lead in the great and good work of uniting, for the first time, the middle and the
working classes of his countrymen, and in so doing, to infuse hope and newness of life into
the dark dwellings of the English peasant and artisan. The Editor of the London Non-Conformist,
speaking of this movement of Mr. Sturge, says: "The Declaration is put forth by a man, who,
perhaps, in a higher degree than any other individual, has the confidence of both the middle
class and the working men. The former can trust to his prudence; the latter have faith in his
sincerity."

Such is the man, who, prompted by his untiring benevolence, visited our shores during the past
year. This volume is the brief record of his visit, and of the impressions produced upon his
mind by our conflicting interests and institutions. It is now republished, in the belief that
the opinions of its author will be received with candor and respect by all classes of our citizens,
and that they are calculated to make a permanent and salutary impression, in favor of the great
cause of universal freedom.

Boston, May, 1842.

PREFACE

TO THE ENGLISH EDITION.

In visiting the United States, the objects which preferred the chief claim to my attention
were the universal abolition of slavery, and the promotion of permanent international peace.
Deeply impressed with the conviction that the advancement of these is intimately connected
with the progress of right views among professing Christians in that country, it was my desire
not only to inform myself of the actual state of feeling and opinion among this important class,
but if possible, to contribute my mite of encouragement and aid to those who are bearing the
burden and heat of the day, in an arduous contest, on whose issue the alternative of a vast
amount of human happiness or misery depends. This general outline of my motives included several
specific, practical objects, which will be found detailed in the ensuing pages.

For obvious reasons, the abolition of slavery in the United States is the most prominent topic
in my narrative; but I have freely interspersed observations on other subjects of interest
and importance, as they came under consideration. Short notices are introduced of some of the
prominent abolitionists of America; and, though sensible how imperfectly I have done justice
to exertions, which, either in degree or kind, have scarcely a parallel in the annals of self-denying
benevolence, I fear I shall occasionally have hurt the feelings of the individuals referred
to, by what they may deem undeserved or unseasonable praise; yet I trust they will pardon the
act for the sake of the motive, which is to introduce the English anti-slavery reader to a
better acquaintance with his fellow laborers in the United States. My short stay, and the limited
extent of my visit, prevented my becoming acquainted with many who are equally deserving of notice.

Less than twelve months have elapsed since I embarked on this "visit;" and though, with the
help of steam by sea and land, an extensive journey may now be performed in a comparatively
short time, yet, during this brief interval, my own engagements would have prevented my placing
the following narrative so early before the public without assistance. It is right to state
that a large portion of the work has been prepared for the press from a rough transcript of
my journal, from my correspondence, and other documents, by the friend who accompanied me on
a former journey to the West Indies, and who then compiled the account of our joint labors.

Nearly the whole of the narrative portion of this publication has been sent to America, to
different individuals who were concerned in, or present at the transactions related, and has
been returned to me with their verification of the facts; so that the reader has the strongest
guaranty for their accuracy. The inferences and comments I am solely responsible for, and I
leave them to rest on their own merits.

In undertaking this journey, I was careful not to shackle my individual liberty by appearing
as the representative of any society, whether religious or benevolent; and, on the other hand,
none of those friends, who kindly furnished me with letters of introduction, are in any way
responsible for my proceedings in the United States, or for any thing which this volume contains.

In conclusion,--should these pages come under the notice of any, who, though well wishers to
their species, are not yet identified with anti-slavery effort, I would entreat such to "come
over and help us." If they are ambitious of a large and quick return for their outlay of money,
of time, of labor,--for their painful sympathies and self-denying prayers,--where will they
find a cause where help is more needed, or where it would be rewarded more surely and abundantly?
Let them reflect on what has been effected, within a few short years, in the British West Indies,
so recently numbered among "the dark places of the earth, full of the habitations of cruelty,"--but
now scenes of light, gladness, and prosperity, temporal and spiritual. To show what remains
to be accomplished for the universal abolition of slavery--a field in which the laborers are
few indeed, in proportion to its extent--I may be allowed to quote the following comprehensive
statement, from the preface to one of the most important volumes that ever issued from the
press on the subject of slavery:[A]

[Footnote A: "Proceedings of the London Anti-Slavery Convention."]

    "The extent of these giant evils may be gathered from a brief
    statement of facts. In the United States of America, the slave
    population is estimated to be 2,750,000; in Brazil, 2,500,000;
    in the Spanish Colonies, 600,000; in the French Colonies,
    265,000; in the Dutch Colonies, 70,000; in the Danish and
    Swedish Colonies, 30,000; and in Texas, 25,000; besides those
    held in bondage by Great Britain, in the East Indies, and the
    British Settlements of Ceylon, Malacca, and Penang; and by
    France, Holland, and Portugal, in various parts of Asia and
    Africa; amounting in all to several millions more; and exclusive
    also of those held in bondage by the native powers of the East,
    and other parts of the world, of whose number it is impossible
    to form a correct estimate.

    "To supply the slave-markets of the Western world, 120,000
    native Africans are, on the most moderate calculation, annually
    required; whilst the slave-markets of the East require 50,000
    more. In procuring these victims of a guilty traffic, to be
    devoted to the rigors of perpetual slavery, it is computed that
    280,000 perish in addition, and under circumstances the most
    revolting and afflicting.

    "But this is not all. In the Southern section of the United
    States, and in British India, a vast internal slave-trade is
    carried on, second only in horror and extent to that which has
    so long desolated and degraded Africa.

    J.S.

    Edgbaston, near Birmingham, Second Month, 1st, 1842.

A VISIT, &c.

I embarked at Portsmouth, on board the British Queen steam packet, commanded by Captain Franklin,
on the 10th of the 3d Month, (March,) 1841. During the first two or three days, the weather
was unusually fine for the season of the year, and gave us the prospect of a quick and prosperous
voyage. The passengers, about seventy in number, were of various nations, including English,
French, German and American.

The very objectionable custom of supplying the passengers with intoxicating liquors without
limit and without any additional charge, thus compelling the temperate or abstinent passenger
to contribute to the expenses of the intemperate, was done away. Each individual paid for the
wine and spirits he called for, a circumstance which greatly promoted sobriety in the ship;
but I am sorry to say three or four, and these my own countrymen, were not unfrequently in
a state of intoxication. On one occasion, after dinner, one of these addressed an intelligent
black steward, who was waiting, by the contemptuous designation of "blackey;" the man replied
to him in this manner:--"My name is Robert; when you want any thing from me please to address
me by my name; there is no gentleman on board who would have addressed me as you have done;
we are all the same flesh and blood; I did not make myself; God made me." This severe and public
rebuke commended itself to every man's conscience, and my countryman obtained no sympathy even
from the most prejudiced slaveholder on board. Several of my fellow passengers stood in this
relation; and I found I could freely converse with a native American slaveholder not only with
less risk of giving offence, but that he was more ready to admit the inherent evils of slavery
than the Europeans who had become inured to the system by residence in the Southern States
of America, or than the American merchants residing in the Northern cities, whose participation
in the commerce of the Slave States had imbued them with pro-slavery views and feelings. One
of them, a French merchant of New Orleans, went so far as to assure me, that in his opinion
it would be as reasonable to class the negroes with monkeys, as to place them on an equality
with the whites.

