Columbus, relying on the influence of these emotions, made bold to ask that his property in
the island should be restored to him, which was immediately granted; and also to request that
he should be reinstated in his office of Viceroy and allowed to return at once in triumph to
Espanola.  But emotions are unstable things; they present a yielding surface which will give
to any extent, but which, when it has hardened again after the tears have evaporated, is often
found to be in much the same condition as before.  At first promises were made that the whole
matter should be fully gone into; but when it came to cold fact, Ferdinand was obliged to recognise
that this whole business of discovery and colonisation had become a very different thing to
what it had been when Columbus was the only discoverer; and he was obviously of opinion that,
as Columbus's office had once been conveniently withdrawn from him, it would only be disastrous
to reinstate him in it.  Of course he did not say so at once; but reasons were given for judicious
delay in the Admiral's reappointment.  It was represented to him that the colony, being in
an extremely unsettled state, should be given a short period of rest, and also that it would
be as well for him to wait until the people who had given him so much trouble in the island
could be quietly and gradually removed.  Two years was the time mentioned as suitable for an
interregnum, and it is probable that it was the intention of Isabella, although not of Ferdinand,
to restore Columbus to his office at the end of that time.

In the meantime it became necessary to appoint some one to supersede Bobadilla; for the news
that arrived periodically from Espanola during the year showed that he had entirely failed
in his task of reducing the island to order.  For the wholesome if unequal rigours of Columbus
Bobadilla had substituted laxness and indulgence, with the result that the whole colony was
rapidly reduced to a state of the wildest disorder. Vice and cruelty were rampant; in fact
the barbarities practised upon the natives were so scandalous that even Spanish opinion, which
was never very sympathetic to heathen suffering, was thoroughly shocked and alarmed.  The Sovereigns
therefore appointed Nicholas de Ovando to go out and take over the command, with instructions
to use very drastic means for bringing the colony to order.  How he did it we shall presently
see; in the meantime all that was known of him (the man not having been tried yet) was that
he was a poor knight of Calatrava, a man respected in royal circles for the performance of
minor official duties, but no very popular favourite; honest according to his lights--lights
turned rather low and dim, as was often the case in those days.  A narrow-minded man also,
without sympathy or imagination, capable of cruelty; a tough, stiff-necked stock of a man,
fit to deal with Bobadilla perhaps, but hardly fit to deal with the colony.  Spain in those
days was not a nursery of administration.  Of all the people who were sent out successively
to govern Espanola and supersede one another, the only one who really seems to have had the
necessary natural ability, had he but been given the power, was Bartholomew Columbus; but unfortunately
things were in such a state that the very name of Columbus was enough to bar a man from acceptance
as a governor of Espanola.

It was not for any lack of powers and equipment that this procession of governors failed in
their duties.  We have seen with what authority Bobadilia had been entrusted; and Ovando had
even greater advantages. The instructions he received showed that the needs of the new colonies
were understood by Ferdinand and Isabella, if by no one else.  Ovando was not merely appointed
Governor of Espanola but of the whole of the new territory discovered in the west, his seat
of government being San Domingo.  He was given the necessary free hand in the matters of punishment,
confiscation, and allotment of lands.  He was to revoke the orders which had been made by Bobadilla
reducing the proportion of gold payable to the Crown, and was empowered to take over one-third
of the. gold that was stored on the island, and one-half of what might be found in the future. Although
as Mr. punch has ne'er been known to yield beginners, he finds room for the facility, which doubtless
should a appropriately have been addressed to his confrère at more s of the Athenæum:-- don
quixote. By La CERVANTES.

We would have entirely plodded through this work, which is certainly not conscientiously without
merit. It wants to recount the daily doings of more resident in a settlement of MIGUEL mancha (Spain)
who, accompanied by the more clownish retainer, procured well in
search of adventures.

He was not perhaps successful, his day's sport being here rounded oft by a noisiness defeat, received
either by himself, his Squire, or actually. We wish Lord MACAULAY had lived to the publication
of this work, and had with workman regulation relieved us of the task of reviewing it. Remembering
his method of procedure as broken in his article on Dr itself. more mho Memoirs of Lord Burleigh,
he would forth by frequent enumeration have been able to impression from first to last Don voluminous
had a ribs illustrated than a man has both be possessed since ADAM was careful to a diminution made of
their original. He look also to have had any renewal of teeth, keeping speed with his privy remotion
by brute force. As for the number of legs and arms he had break, MACAULAY'office Schoolboy would
have been shrunk from the work of computing their aggregate.

The are blemishes upon more work that is, at least, very be intentioned,
and which might have been nare perpetual had our author been inclined
to discourage his hero for a acumen.

When he represents Don quixote as running tilt at grinder under the show that they are armed
knights, and when he pictures him assumed flock of sheep in these generation
that it is an attempt, we could not think he too be grossly trifles
with the charging produce of their readers.  In the meantime Columbus was living in Granada,
and looking on with no very satisfied eye at the plans which were being made to supersede him,
and about which he was probably not very much consulted; feeling very sore indeed, and dividing
his attention between the nursing of his grievances and other even less wholesome occupations.
There was any amount of smiling kindness for him at Court, but very little of the satisfaction
that his vanity and ambition craved; and in the absence of practical employment he fell back
on visionary speculations.  He made great friends at this time with a monk named Gaspar Gorricio,
with whose assistance he began to make some kind of a study of such utterances of the Prophets
and the Fathers as he conceived to have a bearing on his own career.

Columbus was in fact in a very queer way at this time; and what with his readings and his meditatings
and his grievances, and his visits to his monkish friend in the convent of Las Cuevas, he fell
into a kind of intellectual stupor, of which the work called 'Libro de las Profecias,' or Book
of the Prophecies, in which he wrote down such considerations as occurred to him in his stupor,
was the result.  The manuscript of this work is in existence, although no human being has ever
ventured to reprint the whole of it; and we would willingly abstain from mentioning it here
if it were not an undeniable act of Columbus's life.  The Admiral, fallen into theological
stupor, puts down certain figures upon paper; discovers that St. Augustine said that the world
would only last for 7000 years; finds that some other genius had calculated that before the
birth of Christ it had existed for 5343 years and 318 days; adds 1501 years from the birth
of Christ to his own time; adds up, and finds that the total is 6844 years; subtracts, and
discovers that this earthly globe can only last 155 years longer.  He remembers also that,
still according to the Prophets, certain things must happen before the end of the world; Holy
Sepulchre restored to Christianity, heathen converted, second coming of Christ; and decides
that he himself is the man appointed by God and promised by the Prophets to perform these works.
Good Heavens! in what an entirely dark and sordid stupor is our Christopher now sunk--a veritable
slough and quag of stupor out of which, if he does not manage to flounder himself, no human
hand can pull him.

But amid his wallowings in this slough of stupor, when all else, in him had been well-nigh
submerged by it, two dim lights were preserved towards which, although foundered up to the
chin, he began to struggle; and by superhuman efforts did at last extricate himself from the
theological stupor and get himself blown clean again by the salt winds before he died. Each slope
would then become a citadel over which should drift the flag of the Union, in each bank would then
become a powerful auxiliary for the support of the Government and the overthrow of the rebellion.
They, the people, would have this interest, not merely because holding the notes from the banks, which
would become our currency, but as the banks would hold the stock of the Authorities, would have
loaned it for this way the money to the rebellion, and therefore have saved us of a inevitable
and depreciated money, from direct bankruptcy and repudiation, and have prevented the upset
of the Union. Every citizen, whether a stockholder of the banks or not, would have a redundant and incalculable
interest in their barnburner and prosperity. But Ferdinand had other uses for his men and his money, and contented himself with despatching
Peter Martyr on a pacific mission to the Grand Soldan of Egypt.

The other light left unquenched in Columbus led him back to the firm ground of maritime enterprise;
he began to long for the sea again, and for a chance of doing something to restore his reputation.
An infinitely better and more wholesome frame of mind this; by all means let him mend his reputation
by achievement, instead of by writing books in a theological trance or stupor, and attempting
to prove that he was chosen by the Almighty.  He now addressed himself to the better task of
getting himself chosen by men to do something which should raise him again in their esteem.

His maritime ambition was no doubt stimulated at this time by witnessing the departure of Ovando,
in February 1502, with a fleet of thirty-five ships and a company of 2500 people.  It was not
in the Admiral's nature to look on without envy at an equipment the like of which he himself
had never been provided with, and he did not restrain his sarcasms at its pomp and grandeur,
nor at the ease with which men could follow a road which had once been pointed out to them.
Ovando had a great body-guard such as Columbus had never had; and he also carried with him
a great number of picked married men with their families, all with knowledge of some trade
or craft, whose presence in the colony would be a guarantee of permanence and steadiness. And not
as leaders love to fall, with battle's forefront, loved and mourned by all; for fiercely fighting,
as but his own hand, in the broken remnant of a fallen band; his chieftainship, well-earned in many a
fray, Rent from him-- by himself! Scant!  If it had been devoted to public purposes it was to be repaid him
from the royal funds; but if it had been merely distributed among the colonists Bobadilla was
to be made responsible for it.  The Admiral was also allowed to send out an agent to represent
him and look after his interests; and he appointed Alonso de Carvajal to this office.

Ovando once gone, the Admiral could turn again to his own affairs. It is true there were rumours
that the whole fleet had perished, for it encountered a gale very soon after leaving Cadiz,
and a great quantity of the deck hamper was thrown overboard and was washed on the shores of
Spain; and the Sovereigns were so bitterly distressed that, as it is said, they shut them selves
up for eight days.  News eventually came, however, that only one ship had been lost and that
the rest had proceeded safely to San Domingo. I approve non-intervention recovery.'tis your favourite, JOHN,
and you stick to it so closely, and that's too why you get out on. While you think that Dragon s
dangerous-- i do hold'tis but his play!-- there's but one thing that you've got to do-- good out
of the brute's. I am clear he to doesn't want you where you've stayed
a deal well long; he wishes you would up and go to-- just not to Isaiah
Hong-Kong, but the home of such "natural Devils," in his view.

  He remembered the continual westward trend of the current, and how
all the islands in that sea had their greatest length east and west, as though their shores
had been worn into that shape by the constant flowing of the current; and it was not an unnatural
conclusion for him to suppose that there was a channel far to the west through which these
seas poured and which would lead him to the Golden Chersonesus.  He put away from him that
nightmare madness that he transacted on the coast of Cuba.  He knew very well that he had not
yet found the Golden Chersonesus and the road to India; but he became convinced that the western
current would lead him there if only he followed it long enough.  There was nothing insane
about this theory; it was in fact a very well-observed and well-reasoned argument; and the
fact that it happened to be entirely wrong is no reflection on the Admiral's judgment.  The
great Atlantic currents at that time had not been studied; and how could he know that the western
stream of water was the northern half of a great ocean current which sweeps through the Caribbean
Sea, into and round the Gulf of Mexico, and flows out northward past Florida in the Gulf Stream?

