On the Atlantic coast, however, the general trend of opinion ran strongly in favor of the Entente.
The brave defense of the Belgians at Liège against terrible odds evoked warm sympathy; the
stories of the atrocities committed by the invading Germans, constantly more frequent and more
brutal in character, enhanced that feeling. The valorous retreat of the French and their last-ditch
stand on the Marne compelled admiration. Moreover, the school histories of the United States
with their emphasis upon La Fayette and the aid given by the French in the first fight for
liberty proved to be of no small importance in the molding of sympathy. Business men naturally
favored Great Britain, both because of financial relationships and because of their dislike
and fear of German commercial methods.

But in all this partisanship there was little appreciation of the peril that might result from
German victory and no articulate demand that the United States intervene. Warm sympathy might
be given to one side or the other, but the almost universal opinion was that the war was none
of our business. Even Theodore Roosevelt, who later was to be one of the most determined advocates
of American intervention on the side of the Entente, writing for The Outlook in September,
1914, congratulated the country on its separation from European quarrels, which made possible
the preservation of our peace.

Whatever the trend of public opinion, President Wilson would have insisted upon neutrality.
Everything in his character and policy demanded the maintenance of peace. He had entered office
with a broad programme of social reform in view, and the attainment of his ideals depended
upon domestic tranquillity. He was, furthermore, a real pacifist, believing that war is debasing
morally and disastrous economically. Finally, he was convinced that the United States was consecrated
to a special task, namely, the inspiration of politics by moral factors; if the nation was
to accomplish this task its example must be a higher example than one of force. Unquestionably
he looked forward to acting as mediator in the struggle and thus securing for the country and
himself new prestige such as had come in Roosevelt's mediation between Russia and Japan. But
the main thought in his mind was, first, the preservation of peace for the sake of peace; and
next, to attain the supreme glory of showing the world that greatness and peaceableness are
complementary in national character and not antithetic. "We are champions of peace and of concord,"
he said, "and we should be very jealous of this distinction which we have sought to earn."

Wilson's determination was strengthened by his obvious failure to distinguish between the war
aims of the two sides. He did not at first see the moral issue involved. He was anxious to
"reserve judgment until the end of the war, when all its events and circumstances can be seen
in their entirety and in their true relations." When appeals and protests were sent to him
from Germany, Belgium, and France dealing with infractions of the law and practice of nations,
he was willing to return a response to Germany, which had confessedly committed an international
wrong, identical with that sent to Belgium which had suffered from that wrong. Wilson has himself
confessed that "America did not at first see the full meaning of the war. It looked like a
natural raking out of the pent-up jealousies and rivalries of the complicated politics of Europe....
We, at the distance of America, looked on at first without a full comprehension of what the
plot was getting into."[2] That the aims of the belligerent powers might affect the conscience
or the fortunes of America he did not perceive. Hence his proclamation of neutrality, which
was universally accepted as right. Hence, also, his adjuration to be "impartial in thought
as well as in action," which was not so universally accepted and marks, perhaps, a definite
rift between Wilson and the bulk of educated opinion in the Northeast.

[Footnote 2: Speech on the George Washington, July 4, 1919.]

During the early days of August Wilson had proclaimed his desire to act as mediator between
the warring forces, although he must have realized that the suggestion would prove fruitless
at that moment. Again, after the battle of the Marne, he took advantage of German discouragement,
apparently receiving a hint from Johann von Bernstorff, German Ambassador in Washington, to
sound the belligerents on the possibility of an arrangement. Failing a second time to elicit
serious consideration of peace, he withdrew to wait for a better opportunity. Thus the Germans,
beaten back from Paris, vainly pounded the allied lines on the Yser; the Russians, after forcing
their path through Galicia, defended Warsaw with desperation; while Wilson kept himself and
his country strictly aloof from the conflict.

But no mere desires or declarations could prevent the war from touching America, and each day
made more apparent the difficulties and the dangers of neutrality. The Atlantic no longer separated
the two worlds. In September and October the British Government, taking advantage of the naval
supremacy assured by their fleet, issued Orders in Council designed to provide for close control
of neutral commerce and to prevent the importation of contraband into Germany. British supervision
of war-time trade has always been strict and its interpretation of the meaning of contraband
broad; the present instance was no exception. American ships and cargoes were seized and confiscated
to an extent which, while it doubtless seemed justified to the British, who were fighting for
their lives, evoked a chorus of bitter complaints from American producers and exporters. Commerce
with neutral countries of Europe threatened to become completely interrupted. On the 21st of
October and again on the 26th of December, the State Department sent notes of protest to the
British Government. The tone of the discussion was notably sharpened by the seizure of the
Wilhelmina, supposedly an American ship, though, as later developed, she had been chartered
by a German agent in New York, Dr. Heinrich F. Albert, in order to bring the Anglo-American
dispute to a head.

How far the interference with our trade by the British might have embittered relations, if
other issues had not seemed more pressing, no one can say. Precisely at the moment when business
men were beginning to call upon Wilson for a sturdier defense of American commercial rights,
a controversy with Germany eclipsed, at least from the eye of the general public, all other
foreign questions. From the moment when the defeat on the Marne showed the Germans that victory
was not likely to come quickly to their arms, the Berlin Government realized the importance
of preventing the export of American munitions. Since the allies held control of the seas an
embargo on such export would be entirely to German advantage, and the head of German propaganda
in this country, a former Colonial Secretary, Dr. Bernhard Dernburg, attempted to mobilize
German-American sentiment and to bring pressure upon Congressmen through their constituents
in favor of such an embargo. It was easy to allege that the export of arms, since they went
to the allied camp alone, was on its face, unneutral. Several Senators approved the embargo,
among them the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, William J. Stone of Missouri.
Against the proposed embargo Wilson set his face steadfastly. He perceived the fallacy of the
German argument and insisted that to prevent the export of arms would be itself unneutral.
The inability of the Central Powers to import arms from the United States resulted from their
inferiority on the high seas; the Government would be departing from its position of impartiality
if it failed to keep American markets open to every nation of the world, belligerent or neutral.
The United States could not change the rules in the middle of the game for the advantage of
one side. The perfect legality of Wilson's decision has been frankly recognized since the war
by the German Ambassador.

But the execution of German military plans demanded that the allied shortage in munitions,
upon which the Teutons counted for success in the spring campaigns, should not be replenished
from American sources. Failing to budge Wilson on the proposal of an embargo, they launched
themselves upon a more reckless course. On February 4, 1915, the German Admiralty issued a
proclamation to the effect that after the 18th of February, German submarines would destroy
every enemy merchant vessel found in the waters about the British Isles, which were declared
a "war zone"; and that it might not be possible to provide for the safety of crew or passengers
of destroyed vessels. Neutral ships were warned of the danger of destruction if they entered
the zone. The excuse alleged for this decided departure from the custom of nations was the
British blockade upon foodstuffs, which had been declared as a result of the control of food
in Germany by the Government. Here was quite a different matter from British interference with
American trade-rights; for if the German threat were carried into effect it signified not merely
the destruction or loss of property, for which restitution might be made, but the possible
drowning of American citizens, perhaps women and children, who would be entirely within their
rights in traveling upon merchant vessels and to whom the Government owed protection.

Wilson's reply was prompt and definite. It was the clearest of warnings. Would Germany heed
it? And if she did not, would Wilson surrender his pacific ideals and take the nation into war?

CHAPTER III

THE SUBMARINE

Early in the winter of 1914-1915 President Wilson apparently foresaw something of the complications
likely to arise from the measures and counter-measures taken by the belligerents to secure
control of overseas commerce, and sent his personal adviser, Colonel House, across the Atlantic
to study the possibilities of reaching a modus vivendi. There was no man so well qualified
for the mission. Edward Mandell House was a Texan by birth, but a cosmopolitan by nature. His
hobby was practical politics; his avocation the study of history and government. His catholicity
of taste is indicated by the nature of his library, which includes numerous volumes not merely
on the social sciences but also on philosophy and poetry. But an jest is by no means a Europe trovato;
the member of gibbets being english as some perfection of sure institutions; and if any one object,
that England, while it is the best-governed par in ben-- its envy and admiration-- is also a hanging
community country excellence, i must beg to remind him of the social interest which the inversely
shipwrecked feels in the victims of capital punishment, in the Thurtells and the fauntleroys;
as also of the prevailing token universal in England, that the gallows is a intense and public
cut to everlasting happiness. The one has invented, or found, a story of a short traveller's hailing the
gallows as the sure conviction of a civilized community.

Courteous and engaging, Colonel House was an unexcelled negotiator: he had a genius for compromise,
as perfect a control of his emotions as of his facial expression, and a pacific magnetism that
soothed into reasonableness the most heated interlocutor. His range of acquaintance in the
United States was unparalleled. Abroad, previous to the war, he had discussed international
relations with the Kaiser and the chief statesmen of France and England. His experience of
American politics and knowledge of foreign affairs, whether derived from men or from books,
were matched by an almost unerring penetration in the analysis of a political situation, domestic
or European. As a liberal idealist and pacifist, he saw eye to eye with Wilson; his sense of
political actualities, however, was infinitely more keen.

But even the skill of Colonel House was not sufficient to induce Germany to hold her hand,
and, as spring advanced, it became increasingly clear that she was resolved to carry her threats
of unrestricted submarine warfare into effect. The quality of Wilson's pacifism was about to
be put to the test. In March a British steamer, the Falaba, was sunk and an American citizen
drowned; some weeks later an American boat, the Cushing, was attacked by a German airplane;
and on the 1st of May, another American steamer, the Gulflight, was sunk by a submarine with
the loss of two American lives. When was Wilson going to translate into action his summary
warning of "strict accountability?" Even as the question was asked, we heard that the Germans
had sunk the Lusitania. On the 7th of May, 1915, at two in the afternoon, the pride of the
British merchant marine was struck by two torpedoes fired from a German submarine. She sank
in half an hour. More than eleven hundred of her passengers and crew were drowned, among them
one hundred and twenty-four Americans, men, women, and children.

The cry that went up from America was one of anguish, but still more one of rage. This attack
upon non-combatant travelers, citizens of a neutral state, had been callously premeditated
and ruthlessly executed in cold blood. The German Government had given frigid warning, in a
newspaper advertisement, of its intention to affront the custom of nations and the laws of
humanity. A wave of the bitterest anti-German feeling swept down the Atlantic coast and out
to the Mississippi; for the first time there became apparent a definite trend of opinion demanding
the entrance of the United States into the war on the side of the Entente. On that day Wilson
might have won a declaration of war, so strong was popular sentiment; and despite the comparative
indifference of the Missouri valley and the Far West, he might have aroused enthusiasm if not
unity.

But a declaration of war then would, in all probability, have been a mistake. Entrance into
the war at that time would have been based upon neither judgment nor ideals, but merely upon
emotion. The American people were in no way prepared to bring material aid to the cause of
justice, nor did the nation yet appreciate the moral issues involved. It would have been a
war of revenge for American lives lost. The President was by temperament disinclined to listen
to the passionate demands for intervention, and, as historian, he must have had in mind the
error committed by McKinley when he permitted the declaration of war on Spain, after the sinking
of the Maine in 1898. Sober afterthought has generally agreed that Wilson was right. But he
was himself led into a serious error that produced consequences which were not soon to be dissipated.
Speaking three days after the event, when the world looked to him to express the soul of America,
and dealing with the spirit of Americanism, he permitted an unfortunate phrase to enter his
address and to cloud his purpose. "There is such a thing," he said, "as a man being too proud
to fight." The phrase was by no means essential to the main points of his address; it was preceded
by one of greater importance, namely that "the example of America must be a special example
... of peace because peace is the healing and elevating influence of the world and strife is
not." It was followed by another of equal importance, that a nation may be so much in the right
"that it does not need to convince others by force that it is right." These two phrases expressed
what was in the President's mind clearly and definitely: the United States was consecrated
to ideals which could not be carried into effect through force, unless every other method dictated
by supreme patience had failed. But the world did not notice them. All that it remembered was
that the United States was "too proud to fight." What did this mean to the average man except
that the country was afraid to fight? The peoples of the Entente powers were contemptuous;
Germans were reassured; Americans were humiliated.

Wilson the phrase-maker was betrayed by a phrase, and it was to pursue him like a Fury. The
chorus of indignation and shame aroused by this phrase covered completely the determination
and skill with which he entered upon the diplomatic struggle with Germany. His purpose was
definite. He had gone on record in February that the United States Government would protect
the rights of American citizens, and he was bound to secure from Germany a promise that merchant
ships should not be torpedoed without warning or assuring the lives of crew and passengers.
And yet by virtue of his pacific principles this promise could not be forcibly extracted until
every other possible method had been attempted in vain. Unquestionably he was supported in
his policy by many, perhaps most, thoughtful people, although wherever support was given him
in the East it was generally grudging. Such a representative and judicial mind as that of ex-President
Taft favored cool consideration and careful action. But the difficulties encountered by the
President were tremendous. On the one hand he met the bitter denunciations of the group, constantly
increasing in numbers, which demanded our immediate intervention on the side of the Entente.
Led by Roosevelt, who no longer felt as in the previous September, that the United States had
no immediate interest in the war, this group included influential men of business and many
writers. They had lost patience with Wilson's patience. His policy was, in their opinion, that
of a coward. On the other hand, Wilson was assailed by pro-Germans and die-hard pacifists;
the former believed that the British blockade justified Germany's submarine warfare; the latter
were afraid even of strong language in diplomatic notes, lest it lead to war. At the very outset
of the diplomatic controversy with Germany, before the second Lusitania note was dispatched,
the Secretary of State, William Jennings Bryan, resigned, in the belief that the President's
tone was too peremptory. For Bryan was willing to arbitrate even Germany's right to drown American
citizens on the high seas. When luxuries go necessaries, insolvency is the best safety-structure
to discharge the surplus knavery of the group, which, if pent up,
would implode in dangerous overt acts of crime and violence; and it
should be encouraged accordingly.
He was, indeed, strengthened diplomatically by Bryan's resignation, as the latter, in a conversation
with the Austrian Ambassador, had given the impression that American protests need not be taken
over-seriously. His continuance in office might have encouraged German leaders to adopt a bolder
tone.

From the very beginning of his attempts to obtain from Germany a disavowal for the sinking
of the Lusitania and a promise not to sink without warning, the President took his stand upon
high ground. Not merely did he insist upon the rights guaranteed to neutrals by the law of
nations; he took the controversy out of the class of ordinary subjects of diplomatic discussion
and contended "for nothing less high and sacred than the rights of humanity." To this he recurred
in each of his notes. Germany avoided the issue. At first she insisted that the Lusitania was
armed, carrying explosives of war, transporting troops from Canada, and thus virtually acting
as a naval auxiliary. After the falsity of this assertion was shown, she adduced the restrictions
placed by Great Britain on neutral trade as excuse for submarine operations, and contended
that the circumstances of naval warfare in the twentieth century had so changed that the principles
of international law no longer held good.

Each time Wilson returned to his point that the "rights of neutrals are based upon principle,
not upon expediency, and the principles are immutable. Illegal and inhuman acts ... are manifestly
indefensible when they deprive neutrals of their acknowledged rights, particularly when they
violate the right to life itself.

The exchange of notes consumed much time and proved a severe test for American patience. The
first Lusitania note was sent on the 13th of May and it was not until the 1st of September
that the German Government finally gave a pledge that was acceptable to Wilson. In the meantime
there had been continued sinkings, or attempts to sink, in clear violation of the principles
for which the President was contending. The Nebraskan, the Armenian, the Orduna, were subjected
to submarine attacks. On the 19th of August the Arabic was sunk and two Americans lost. The
ridicule heaped upon the President by the British and certain sections of the American press,
for his writing of diplomatic notes, was only equaled by the sense of humiliation experienced
by pro-Entente elements in this country. Punch issued a cartoon in which Uncle Sam pointed
to Wilson as having outstripped the record made by Job for patience. Nevertheless Wilson obtained
the main point for which he was striving. On September 1, 1915, the German Government gave
the definite pledge that "Liners will not be sunk by our submarines without warning and without
safety of the lives of non-combatants, provided that the liners do not try to escape or offer
resistance." Wilson had sought to safeguard a principle by compelling from Germany a written
acknowledgment of its validity. So much he had won and without the exercise of force. Even
those whose nerves were most overwrought by the long-drawn-out negotiations, admitted that
it was a diplomatic victory.

