Every spare moment till our work began had to be devoted to learning Russian. It is a brain-splitting
language. Before I went to Russia I was told that two words would carry me through the Empire:
"Nichevo" meaning "never mind," and "Seechas" which means "immediately" or "to-morrow" or "next
week." But we had to study every moment to learn as much Russian as possible, as of course
the soldiers could not understand any other language. French is understood everywhere in society,
but in the shops no other tongue than Russian is any use. German is understood pretty widely--but
it is absolutely forbidden now to be spoken under penalty of a 3000 rouble fine. In all the
hotels there is a big notice put up in Russian, French, and English in the public rooms "It
is forbidden to speak German," and just at first it added rather to the complications of life
not to be able to use it.

VII

OUR WORK IN WARSAW

In two or three days' time after our visit to the Empress we were off to Warsaw and reported
ourselves to Monsieur Goochkoff, the head of the Red Cross Society there.

We received our marching orders at once. We were not to be together at first, as they thought
we should learn Russian more quickly if we were separated, so two of us were to go to one hospital
in Warsaw, two to another. My fate was a large Red Cross hospital close to the station, worked
by a Community of Russian Sisters. I must say I had some anxious moments as I drove with Sister
G. to the hospital that afternoon. I wondered if Monsieur Goochkoff had said we were coming,
and thought if two Russian Sisters suddenly turned up without notice at an English hospital
how very much surprised they would be. Then I hoped they were very busy, as perhaps then they
would welcome our help. But again, I meditated, if they were really busy, we with our stumbling
Russian phrases might be only in the way. It was all very well in Denmark to think one would
come and help Russia--but supposing they did not want us after all?

By the time I got so far we had arrived at the hospital, the old familiar hospital smell of
disinfectants met my nostrils, and I felt at home at once. I found that I had been tormenting
myself in vain, for they were expecting us and apparently were not at all displeased at our
arrival. The Sister Superior had worked with English people in the Russo-Japanese War and spoke
English almost perfectly, and several of the other Sisters spoke French or German. She was
very worried as to where we should sleep, as they were dreadfully overcrowded themselves; even
she had shared her small room with another Sister. However, she finally found us a corner in
a room which already held six Sisters. Eight of us in a small room with only one window! The
Sisters sleeping there took our advent like angels, said there was plenty of room, and moved
their beds closer together so that we might have more space. Again I wondered whether if it
were England we should be quite so amiable under like circumstances. I hope so.

I began to unpack, but there was nowhere to put anything; there was no furniture in the room
whatsoever except our straw beds, a table, and a large tin basin behind a curtain in which
we all washed--and, of course, the ikon or holy picture which hangs in every Russian room.
We all kept our belongings under our beds--not a very hygienic proceeding, but à la guerre
comme à la guerre. The patients were very overcrowded too, every corridor was lined with beds,
and the sanitars, or orderlies, slept on straw mattresses in the hall. The hospital had been
a large college and was originally arranged to hold five hundred patients, but after the last
big battle at Soldau every hospital in Warsaw was crammed with wounded, and more than nine
hundred patients had been sent in here and had to be squeezed into every available corner.

My work was in the dressing-room, which meant dressing wounds all day and sometimes well into
the night, and whatever time we finished there were all the dressings for the next day to be
cut and prepared before we could go to bed. The first week was one long nightmare with the
awful struggle for the Russian names of dressings and instruments and with their different
methods of working, but after that I settled down very happily.

Sister G. was in the operating-room on the next floor, and she, too, found that first week
a great strain. The other two Sisters who had come out with us and had been sent to another
hospital apparently found the same, for they returned to England after the first five days,
much to my disappointment, as I had hoped that our little unit of four might have got a small
job of our own later, when we could speak Russian better and had learnt their ways and customs.

After the first few days we began to be very busy. In England we should consider that hospital
very badly staffed, as there were only twenty Sisters to sometimes nearly a thousand patients,
all very serious cases moreover, as we were not supposed to take in the lightly wounded at
all in this hospital. The sanitars, or orderlies, do all that probationers in an English hospital
would do for the patients, and all the heavy lifting and carrying, so that the work is not
very hard though very continuous. There was no night staff. We all took it in turns to stay
up at night three at a time, so that our turn came about once a week. That meant being on duty
all day, all night, and all the next day, except for a brief rest and a walk in the afternoon.
Most of the Sisters took no exercise beyond one weekly walk, but we two English people longed
for fresh air, and went out whenever possible even if it was only for ten minutes. English
views on ventilation are not at all accepted in Russia. It is a great concession to open the
windows of the ward for ten minutes twice a day to air it, and the Sisters were genuinely frightened
for the safety of the patients when I opened the windows of a hot, stuffy ward one night. "It
is never done," they reiterated, "before daylight."

The Sister Superior was the mainspring of the hospital. She really was a wonderful person,
small and insignificant to look at, except for her eyes, which looked you through and through
and weighed you in the balance; absolutely true and straight, with a heart of gold, and the
very calmest person in all the world. I remember her, late one evening, when everybody was
rather agitated at a message which had come to say that 400 patients were on their way to the
hospital, and room could only be made for 200 at the most. "Never mind," she said, not in the
least perturbed, "they must be made as comfortable as possible on stretchers for the night,
and to-morrow we must get some of the others moved away." And the Sisters took their cue from
her, and those 400 patients were all taken in and looked after with less fuss than the arrival
of forty unexpected patients in most hospitals.

All night long that procession of shattered men brought in on stretchers never ceased. The
kitchen Sister stayed up all night so that each man should have some hot soup on arrival, and
all the other Sisters were at their posts. Each man was undressed on the stretcher (often so
badly wounded that all his clothing had to be cut off him) and hastily examined by the doctor.
He was then dressed in a clean cotton shirt and trousers and lifted into bed, either to enjoy
a bowl of hot soup, or, if the case was urgent, to be taken off in his turn to the operating-room.
And though she was no longer young and not at all strong, there was dear Sister Superior herself
all night, taking round the big bowls of soup or sitting beside the dying patients to cheer
and comfort their last hours. How the men loved her.

It was she who gave the whole tone to the hospital--there the patients and their welfare were
the first consideration and nothing else mattered in comparison. The hospital was not "smart"
or "up to date," the wards were not even tidy, the staff was inadequate, overworked, and villainously
housed, the resources very scanty, but for sheer selflessness and utter devotion to their work
the staff of that hospital from top to bottom could not have been surpassed. I never heard
a grumble or a complaint all the time I was there either from a doctor, a Sister, or an orderly,
and I never saw in this hospital a dressing slurred over, omitted, or done without the usual
precautions however tired or overworked everybody might be.

Of course the art of nursing as practised in England does not exist in Russia--even the trained
Sisters do things every hour that would horrify us in England. One example of this is their
custom of giving strong narcotic or stimulating drugs indiscriminately, such as morphine, codeine,
camphor, or ether without doctors' orders. When untrained Sisters and inexperienced dressers
do this (which constantly happens) the results are sometimes very deplorable. I have myself
seen a dresser give a strong hypodermic stimulant to a man with a very serious hæmorrhage.
The bleeding vessel was deep down and very difficult to find, and the hæmorrhage became so
severe after the stimulant that for a long time his life was despaired of from extreme exhaustion
due to loss of blood. I have also heard a Sister with no training except the two months' war
course say she had given a certain man ten injections of camphor within an hour because he
was so collapsed, but she had not seen fit to tell the doctor she had done this, nor had she
let him know his patient was so much worse until he was at the point of death. Neither of these
particular incidents could have happened in the Red Cross hospital at Warsaw as the Sisters
there were properly trained; but even there they gave drugs at their own sweet will without
consulting anyone--particularly in the night.

We were so busy at the hospital that we did not see much of Warsaw. To the casual observer
it looks a busy, modern, rather gay capital, but almost every inch of the city is interesting
historically, and nearly all the pages of that history are red with blood. War, revolutions,
and riots seem to have been almost its normal condition, and the great broad Vistula that flows
sluggishly through it has been many a time before stained crimson with the blood of its citizens.
But this time the war is being fought under different conditions. Russians and Poles are for
the first time working together with a common aim in view. If the only outcome of this war
was the better mutual understanding of these two great nations, it would not have been fought
entirely in vain.

When we first arrived the Russians had beaten the Germans back to the frontier, and every one
was elated with the great victory. Now at the end of October things did not look quite so happy.
The people who knew looked anxious and harassed. The newspapers, as usual, told nothing at
all, but the news which always filters in somehow from mouth to mouth was not good. Terrific
fighting was going on outside Lodz, it was said, and enormous German reinforcements were being
poured in. Warsaw was full to overflowing with troops going through to reinforce on the Russian
side. A splendid set of men they looked, sturdy, broad-chested, and hardy--not in the least
smart, but practical and efficient in their warm brown overcoats and big top boots.

There are two things one notices at once about the Russian soldier. One is his absolute disregard
of appearances. If he is cold he will tie a red comforter round his head without minding in
the least whether he is in the most fashionable street in Warsaw or in camp at the front. The
other noticeable characteristic is the friendly terms he is on with his officers. The Prussian
soldiers rarely seem to like their officers, and it is not to be wondered at, as they treat
their men in a very harsh, overbearing way. On duty the Russian discipline is strict, but off
duty an officer may be heard addressing one of his men as "little pigeon" or "comrade" and
other terms of endearment, and the soldier, on the other hand, will call his officer "little
father" or "little brother." I remember one most touching scene when a soldier servant accompanied
his wounded officer to hospital. The officer was quite a young, delicate-looking boy, who had
been shot through the chest. His servant was a huge, rough Cossack, who would hardly let any
of us touch his master if he could help it, and stayed by his bed night and day till the end,
when, his great frame heaving with sobs and tears streaming down the seamed and rugged face,
he threw himself over the officer's body and implored God to let him die too.

The hospital began to grow empty and the work slackened down, as every possible patient was
sent away to Moscow or Petrograd to make room for the rush of wounded that must be coming from
the Lodz direction. But no patients arrived, and we heard that the railway communications had
been cut. But this proved to be untrue.

One Sunday afternoon Sister G. and I, being free, betook ourselves to tea at the Hotel d'Europe--that
well-named hostelry which has probably seen more history made from its windows than any other
hotel in Europe. We favoured it always on Sunday when we could, for not only was a particularly
nice tea to be had, but one could also read there a not too old French newspaper. I think just
at first we felt almost as cut off from news of what was happening on the English side as we
did in Belgium. No English or French papers could be bought and the Polish and Russian papers
were as sealed books to us, and when I did succeed in getting some long-suffering person to
translate them to me, the news was naturally chiefly of the doings of the Russian side. Later
on I had English papers sent out to me which kept me in touch with the western front, and also
by that time, too, I could make out the substance of the Russian papers; but just at first
it was very trying not to know what was going on. We had had tea and had read of an Anglo-French
success near Ypres and returned rested and cheered to the hospital to find Sister Superior
asking for us. She had had a message from the Red Cross Office that we were to go to Lodz next
day, and were to go at once to the Hotel Bristol to meet Prince V., who would give us full
particulars.

We went off at once to the Bristol and saw Prince V., but did not get any particulars--that
was not the Prince's way. He was sitting reading in the lounge when we arrived, a very tall,
lean, handsome man with kind brown eyes and a nose hooked like an eagle's. He greeted us very
kindly and said he would take us to Lodz next day in one of the Red Cross automobiles, and
that we must be ready at 10 A. M. I think we earned his everlasting gratitude by asking no
questions as to where and how we were going to work, but simply said we would be ready at that
time and returned to hospital to pack, fully realizing what lucky people we were to be going
right into the thick of things, and only hoping that we should rise to the occasion and do
the utmost that was expected of us.

We were now officially transferred from the hospital to the Flying Column, of which Prince
V. was the head. A flying column works directly under the head of the Red Cross, and is supposed
to go anywhere and do anything at any hour of the day or night. Our Column consisted of five
automobiles that conveyed us and all our equipment to the place where we were to work, and
then were engaged in fetching in wounded, and taking them on to the field hospital or ambulance
train. The staff consisted of Prince and Princess V., we two English Sisters, with generally,
but not always, some Russian ones in addition, an English surgeon, Colonel S., some Russian
dressers and students, and some sanitars, or orderlies. The luggage was a dreadful problem,
and the Prince always groaned at the amount we would take with us, but we could not reduce
it, as we had to carry big cases of cotton-wool, bandages and dressings, anæsthetics, field
sterilizer, operating-theatre equipment, and a certain amount of stores--such as soap, candles,
benzine and tinned food--as the column would have been quite useless if it had not been to
a large extent self-supporting. Our Column was attached to the Second Army, which operated
on the eastern front of Warsaw. The Russian front changes so much more rapidly than the Anglo-French
front, where progress is reckoned in metres, that these mobile columns are a great feature
of ambulance work here. Our front changed many miles in a week sometimes, so that units that
can move anywhere at an hour's notice are very useful. The big base hospitals cannot quite
fulfil the same need on such a rapidly changing front.

VIII

THE BOMBARDMENT OF LODZ

It took us a long time to get to Lodz, though it is not much more than 200 kilometres away.
Russian roads are villainously bad anyhow, and the Germans, though their retreat had been hasty,
had had time to destroy the roads and bridges as they went. Another thing that delayed us were
the enormous reinforcements of troops going up from Warsaw to the front. It was very interesting
to watch the different groups as we passed, first a Cossack regiment going up, then an immense
convoy followed with about 200 wagons of forage. Just ahead of that we passed the remounts--sturdy,
shaggy Siberian ponies. They are the most delightful creatures in the world, as tame as a dog,
and not much bigger, and many of them of a most unusual and beautiful shade of golden cream.
They have been brought from Siberia by the thousand, and most of the little things had never
seen a motor-car before, and pranced and kicked and jumped, and went through all kinds of circus
tricks as we passed.

As we grew nearer to Lodz it was sad to see a good many dead horses lying by the roadside,
mostly killed by shell-fire. The shells had made great holes in the road too, and the last
part of our journey was like a ride on a switchback railway. It began to get dark as we came
to Breeziny, where a large number of Russian batteries were stationed. It looked very jolly
there, these large camps of men and horses having their supper by the light of a camp-fire,
with only the distant rumble of the guns to remind them that they were at war. Two hours later
we jolted into the streets of Lodz.

Lodz is a large cotton manufacturing town--sometimes called the Manchester of Poland--but now
of course all the factories were closed, and many destroyed by shell. I should not think it
was a very festive place at the best of times; it looked squalid and grimy, and the large bulk
of its population was made up of the most abject Jews I have ever seen.

We had to make a long detour and get into the town by an unfrequented country road, as Lodz
was being heavily bombarded by the German guns. We were put down at a large building which
we were told was the military hospital. Princess V., Colonel S., and a Russian student were
working hard in the operating-room, and we hastily put on clean overalls and joined them. They
all looked absolutely worn out, and the doctor dropped asleep between each case; but fresh
wounded were being brought in every minute and there was no one else to help. Lodz was one
big hospital. We heard that there were more than 18,000 wounded there, and I can well believe
it. Every building of any size had been turned into a hospital, and almost all the supplies
of every kind had given out.

The building we were in had been a day-school, and the top floor was made up of large airy
schoolrooms that were quite suitable for wards. But the shelling recommenced so violently that
the wounded all had to be moved down to the ground floor and into the cellars. The place was
an absolute inferno. I could never have imagined anything worse. It was fearfully cold, and
the hospital was not heated at all, for there was no wood or coal in Lodz, and for the same
reason the gas-jets gave out only the faintest glimmer of light. There was no clean linen,
and the poor fellows were lying there still in their verminous, blood-soaked shirts, shivering
with cold, as we had only one small blanket each for them. They were lucky if they had a bed
at all, for many were lying with only a little straw between them and the cold stone floor.
There were no basins or towels or anything to wash up with, and no spittoons, so the men were
spitting all over the already filthy floor. In the largest ward where there were seventy or
eighty men lying, there was a lavatory adjoining which had got blocked up, and a thin stream
of dirty water trickled under the door and meandered in little rivulets all over the room.
The smell was awful, as some of the men had been there already several days without having
had their dressings done.

This was the state in which the hospital had been handed over to us. It was a military hospital
whose staff had had orders to leave at four o'clock that morning, and they handed the whole
hospital with its 270 patients over to us just as it was; and we could do very little towards
making it more comfortable for them. The stench of the whole place was horrible, but it was
too cold to do more than open the window for a minute or two every now and then. It was no
one's fault that things were in such a horrible condition--it was just the force of circumstances
and the fortune of war that the place had been taxed far beyond its possible capacities.

All night long the most terribly wounded men were being brought in from the field, some were
already dead when they arrived, others had only a few minutes to live; all the rest were very
cold and wet and exhausted, and we had nothing to make them comfortable. What a blessing hot-water
bottles would have been--but after all there would have been no hot water to fill them if we
had had them. But the wounded had to be brought in for shelter somewhere, and at least we had
a roof over their heads, and hot tea to give them.

At 5 A. M. there came a lull. The tragic procession ceased for a while, and we went to lie
down. At seven o'clock we were called again--another batch of wounded was being brought in.

The shelling had begun again, and was terrific; crash, crash, over our heads the whole time.
A clock-tower close to the hospital was demolished and windows broken everywhere. The shells
were bursting everywhere in the street, and civilians were being brought in to us severely
wounded. A little child was carried in with half its head blown open, and then an old Jewish
woman with both legs blown off, and a terrible wound in her chest, who only lived an hour or
two. Apparently she suffered no pain, but was most dreadfully agitated, poor old dear, at having
lost her wig in the transit. They began bringing in so many that we had to stop civilians being
brought in at all, as it was more than we could do to cope with the wounded soldiers that were
being brought in all the time.

At midday we went to a hotel for a meal. There was very, very little food left in Lodz, but
they brought what they could. Coming back to the hospital we tried everywhere to get some bread,
but there was none to be had anywhere--all the provision shops were quite empty, and the inhabitants
looked miserable and starved, the Jewish population particularly so, though they were probably
not among the poorest.

On our way back a shell burst quite close to us in the street, but no one was hurt. These shells
make a most horrible scream before bursting, like an animal in pain. Ordinarily I am the most
dreadful coward in the world about loud noises--I even hate a sham thunderstorm in a theatre--but
here somehow the shells were so part of the whole thing that one did not realize that all this
was happening to us, one felt rather like a disinterested spectator at a far-off dream. It
was probably partly due to want of sleep; one's hands did the work, but one's mind was mercifully
numbed. Mercifully, for it was more like hell than anything I can imagine. The never-ending
processions of groaning men being brought in on those horrible blood-soaked stretchers, suffering
unimagined tortures, the filth, the cold, the stench, the hunger, the vermin, and the squalor
of it all, added to one's utter helplessness to do more than very little to relieve their misery,
was almost enough to make even Satan weep.

On the third day after our arrival a young Russian doctor and some Russian sisters arrived
to relieve us for a few hours, and we most thankfully went to bed--at least it was not a bed
in the ordinary sense, but a wire bedstead on which we lay down in all our clothes; but we
were very comfortable all the same.

When we woke up we were told that the military authorities had given orders for the patients
to be evacuated, and that Red Cross carts were coming all night to take them away to the station,
where some ambulance trains awaited them. So we worked hard all night to get the dressings
done before the men were sent away, and as we finished each case, he was carried down to the
hall to await his turn to go; but it was very difficult as all the time they were bringing
in fresh cases as fast as they were taking the others away, and alas! many had to go off without
having had their dressings done at all. The next afternoon we were still taking in, when we
got another order that all the fresh patients were to be evacuated and the hospital closed,
as the Russians had decided to retire from Lodz. Again we worked all night, and by ten the
next morning we had got all the patients away. The sanitars collected all the bedding in the
yard to be burnt, the bedsteads were piled high on one another, and we opened all the windows
wide to let the clean cold wind blow over everything.

We had all our own dressings and equipment to pack, and were all just about at our last gasp
from want of food and sleep, when a very kind Polish lady came and carried princess, we two
Sisters, and Colonel S. off to her house, where she had prepared bedrooms for us. I never looked
forward to anything so much in my life as I did to my bed that night. Our hostess simply heaped
benefits on us by preparing us each a hot bath in turn. We had not washed or had our clothes
off since we came to Lodz, and were covered with vermin which had come to us from the patients;
men and officers alike suffer terribly from this plague of insects, which really do make one's
life a burden. There are three varieties commonly met with: ordinary fleas that no one minds
in the least; white insects that are the commonest and live in the folds of one's clothes,
whose young are most difficult to find, and who grow middle-aged and very hungry in a single
night; and, lastly, the red insects with a good many legs, which are much less numerous but
much more ravenous than the other kinds.

After the bath and the hunt, we sat down to a delicious supper, and were looking forward to
a still more delicious night in bed, when suddenly Prince V. arrived and said we must leave
at once. We guessed instantly that the Germans must be very near, but that he did not wish
us to ask questions, as it seemed very mean to go off ourselves and leave our kind hosts without
a word of explanation, though of course we could only obey orders. So we left our unfinished
supper and quickly collected our belongings and took them to the hotel where our Red Cross
car should have been waiting for us. But the Red Cross authorities had sent off our car with
some wounded, which of course was just as it should be, and we were promised another "seechas,"
which literally translated signifies "immediately," but in Russia means to-day or to-morrow
or not at all.

"Let us come into the hotel and get a meal while we wait," suggested the Prince, mindful of
our uneaten supper, and we followed him to the restaurant--still mourning those beautiful beds
we had left behind us, and so tired we didn't much care whether the Germans came or not. Nothing
can express utter desolation much more nakedly than a Grand Hotel that has been through a week
or two's bombardment. Here indeed were the mighty fallen. A large hole was ripped out of the
wall of the big restaurant, close to the alcove where the band used to play while the smart
people dined. An elaborate wine-list still graced each little table, but coffee made from rye
bread crusts mixed with a little chicory was the only drink that a few white-faced waiters
who crept about the room like shadows could apologetically offer us. We sat there till nearly
3 A. M., and Colonel S., utterly worn out, was fast asleep with his head on the little table,
and there was no sign of any car, or of any Germans, so we went to lie down till morning.

In the morning things began to look cheerful. The Germans had still not arrived, our own car
turned up, and best of all the Prince heard officially that every wounded man who was at all
transportable had now been successfully got out of Lodz. It was a gigantic task, this evacuation
of over 18,000 wounded in four days, and it is a great feather in the Russian cap to have achieved
it so successfully.

It was a most lovely day with a soft blue sky, and all the world bathed in winter sunshine.
Shelling had ceased during the night, but began again with terrific force in the morning, and
we started off under a perfect hail of shells. There were four German aeroplanes hovering just
above us, throwing down bombs at short intervals. The shells aimed at them looked so innocent,
like little white puff-balls bursting up in the blue sky. We hoped they would be brought down,
but they were too high for that. The bombs were only a little diversion of theirs by the way--they
were really trying to locate the Russian battery, as they were evidently making signals to
their own headquarters. Danger always adds a spice to every entertainment, and as the wounded
were all out and we had nobody but ourselves to think about, we could enjoy our thrilling departure
from Lodz under heavy fire to the uttermost. And I must say I have rarely enjoyed anything
more. It was simply glorious spinning along in that car, and we got out safely without anyone
being hurt.

We passed through Breeziny, where the tail-end of a battle was going on, and the Prince stopped
the car for a few minutes so that we could see the men in the trenches. On our way we passed
crowds of terrified refugees hurrying along the road with their few possessions on their backs
or in their arms; it reminded me of those sad processions of flying peasants in Belgium, but
I think these were mostly much poorer, and had not so much to lose. Just as the sun was setting
we stopped for a rest at a place the Prince knew of, half inn, half farm-house. We looked back,
and the sky was bloody and lurid over the western plain where Lodz lay. To us it seemed like
an ill omen for the unhappy town, but it may be that the Germans took those flaming clouds
to mean that even the heavens themselves were illuminated to signal their victory.

Some bread and some pale golden Hungarian Tokay were produced by our host for our refreshment.
The latter was delicious, but it must have been much more potent than it looked, for though
I only had one small glass of it, I collapsed altogether afterwards, and lay on the floor of
the car, and could not move till the lights of Warsaw were in sight. In a few minutes more
we arrived at the Hotel Bristol, and then the Flying Column went to bed at last.

IX

MORE DOINGS OF THE FLYING COLUMN

The Grand Duchess Cyril happened to be staying at the Hotel Bristol too. Like most of the other
members of the Russian Royal Family, since the beginning of the war she has been devoting her
whole time to helping wounded soldiers, and is the centre of a whole network of activities.
She has a large hospital in Warsaw for men and officers, a very efficient ambulance train that
can hold 800 wounded, and one of the best surgeons in Petrograd working on it, and a provision
train which sets up feeding-stations for the troops and for refugees in places where food is
very scarce, which last is an indescribable boon to all who benefit by it. The Grand Duchess's
hospital in Warsaw, like every other just at this time, was crammed to overflowing with wounded
from Lodz, and the staff was inadequate to meet this unexpected need.

The Grand Duchess met Princess V. in the lounge just as we arrived from Lodz, and begged that
our Column might go and help for a time at her hospital. Accordingly, the next day, the consent
of the Red Cross Office having been obtained, we went off to the Grand Duchess's hospital for
a time to supplement and relieve their staff. They met us with open arms, as they were all
very tired and very thankful for our help. They only had room for fifty patients and had had
about 150 brought in. Fortunately the Grand Duchess's ambulance train had just come back to
Warsaw, so the most convalescent of the old cases were taken off to Petrograd, but even then
we were working in the operating-theatre till twelve or one every night. They hoped we had
come for two or three weeks and were very disgusted when, in five days' time, the order came
for us to go off to Skiernevice with the automobiles. The hospital staff gave us such a nice
send-off, and openly wished that they belonged to a flying column too. I must say it was very
interesting these startings off into the unknown, with our little fleet of automobiles containing
ourselves and our equipment. We made a very flourishing start out of Warsaw, but very soon
plunged into an appalling mess of mud. One could really write an epic poem on Russian roads.
At the best of times they are awful; on this particular occasion they were full of large holes
made by shells and covered with thick swampy mud that had been snow the week before. It delayed
us so much that we did not get to Skiernevice till late that night.

Skiernevice is a small town, important chiefly as a railway junction, as two lines branch off
here towards Germany and Austria north-west and south-west. The Tsar has a shooting-box here
in the midst of beautiful woods, and two rooms had been set apart in this house for our Column.

We arrived late in the evening, secretly hoping that we should get a night in bed, and were
rather rejoiced at finding that there were no wounded there at all at present, though a large
contingent was expected later. So we camped in the two rooms allotted to us: Princess, Sister
G., and myself in one, and all the men of the party in the other. No wounded arrived for two
or three days, and we thoroughly enjoyed the rest and, above all, the beautiful woods. How
delicious the pines smelt after that horrible Lodz. Twice a day we used to go down the railway
line, where there was a restaurant car for the officers; it seemed odd to be eating our meals
in the Berlin-Warsaw International Restaurant Car. There was always something interesting going
on at the station. One day a regiment from Warsaw had just been detrained there when a German
Taube came sailing over the station throwing down grenades. Every man immediately began to
fire up in the air, and we ran much more risk of being killed by a Russian bullet than by the
German Taube. It was like being in the middle of a battle, and I much regretted I had not my
camera with me. Another day all the débris of a battlefield had been picked up and was lying
in piles in the station waiting to be sent off to Warsaw. There were truck-loads of stuff;
German and Russian overcoats, boots, rifles, water-bottles, caps, swords, and helmets and all
sorts of miscellaneous kit.

We often saw gangs of prisoners, mostly Austrian, but some German, and they always seemed well
treated by the Russians. The Austrian prisoners nearly always looked very miserable, cold,
hungry, and worn out. Once we saw a spy being put into the train to go to Warsaw, I suppose
to be shot--an old Jewish man with white hair in a long, black gaberdine, strips of coloured
paper still in his hand with which he had been caught signalling to the Germans. How angry
the soldiers were with him--one gave him a great punch in the back, another kicked him up into
the train, and a soldier on the platform who saw what was happening ran as fast as he could
and was just in time to give him a parting hit on the shoulder. The old man did not cry out
or attempt to retaliate, but his face was ashy-white with terror, and one of his hands was
dripping with blood. It was a very horrible sight and haunted me all the rest of the day. It
was quite right that he should be shot as a spy, but the unnecessary cruelty first sickened me.

There were masses of troops constantly going up to the positions from Skiernevice, and as there
was a short cut through the park, which they generally used, we could see all that was going
on from our rooms. On Sunday it was evident that another big battle was pending. Several batteries
went up through our woods, each gun-carriage almost up to its axles in mud, dragged by eight
strong horses. They were followed by a regiment of Cossacks, looking very fierce in their great
black fur head-dresses, huge sheep-skin coats, and long spears. There was one small Cossack
boy who was riding out with his father to the front and who could not have been more than eleven
or twelve years old. There are quite a number of young boys at the front who make themselves
very useful in taking messages, carrying ammunition, and so on. We had one little boy of thirteen
in the hospital at Warsaw, who was badly wounded while carrying a message to the colonel, and
he was afterwards awarded the St. George's Cross.

There were enormous numbers of other troops too: Siberians, Tartars, Asiatic Russians from
Turkestan, Caucasians in their beautiful black-and-silver uniforms, Little Russians from the
south, and great fair-haired giants from the north.

The little Catholic Church in the village was full to overflowing at the early Mass that Sunday
morning with men in full marching kit on their way out to the trenches. A very large number
of them made their Confession and received the Blessed Sacrament before starting out, and for
many, many of these it was their Viaticum, for the great battle began that afternoon, and few
of the gallant fellows we saw going up to the trenches that morning ever returned again.

