Behmen's teaching on human nature, his doctrine of the heart of man, and of the image of GOD
in the heart of man, has a greatness about it that marks it off as being peculiarly Behmen's
own doctrine.  He agrees with the catechisms and the creeds in their teaching that the heart
of man was at first like the heart of GOD in knowledge, righteousness, and true holiness. 
But Behmen is above and beyond the catechisms in this also, in the way that he sees the heart
of man still opening in upon the Divine Nature, as also upon Eternal and Temporal Nature, somewhat
as the heart of GOD opens on all that He has made.  On every page of his, wherever you happen
to open him, Behmen is found teaching that GOD and CHRIST, heaven and hell, life and death,
are in every several human heart.  Heaven and all that it contains is every day either being
quenched and killed in every human heart, or it is being anew generated, rekindled, and accepted
there; and in like manner hell.  'Yea,' he is bold to exclaim, 'GOD Himself is so near thee
that the geniture of the Holy Trinity is continually being wrought in thy heart.  Yea, all
the Three Persons are generated for thee in thy heart.'  And, again: 'GOD is in thy dark heart.
Knock, and He shall come out within thee into the light.  The Holy Ghost holds the key of thy
dark heart.  Ask, and He shall be given to thee within thee.  Do not let any sophister teach
thee that thy GOD is far aloft from thee as the stars are.  Only offer at this moment to GOD
thine heart, and CHRIST, the Son of GOD, will be born and formed within thee. And then thou
art His brother, His flesh, and His spirit.  Thou also art a child of His Father.  GOD is in
thee.  Power, might, majesty, heaven, paradise, elements, stars, the whole earth--all is thine.
Thou art in CHRIST over hell, and all that it contains.'  'Behmen's speculation,' Martensen
is always reminding us, 'streams forth from the deepest practical inspiration.  His speculations
are all saturated with a constant reference to salvation.  His whole metaphysic is pervaded
by practical applications.'  And conspicuously so, we may here point out, is his metaphysic
of GOD and of the heart of man.  The immanence of GOD, as theologians and philosophers call
it; the indwelling of GOD, as the psalmists and the apostles and the saints call it; the Divine
Word lightening every man that comes into the world, as John has it,--of the practical and
personal bearings of all that Behmen's every book is full. Dost thou not see it and feel it?
he continually calls to his readers. Heaven, be sure, is in every holy man, and hell in every
bad man.  When thou dost work together with GOD then thou art in heaven, and thy soul dwells
in GOD.  In like manner, also, thou art in hell and among the devils when thou art in any envy,
malice, anger, or ill-will.  Thou needest not to ask where is heaven or where is hell.  Both
are within thee, even in thy heart.  Now, then, when thou prayest, pray in that heaven that
is within thee, and there the Holy Ghost shall meet with thee and will help thee, and thy soul
shall be the whole of heaven within thee.  It is a fundamental doctrine of Behmen's that the
fall would have been immediate and eternal death to Adam and Eve had not the Divine Word, the
Seed of the woman, entered their hearts, and kept a footing in their hearts, and in the hearts
of all their children, against the fulness of time when He would take our flesh and work out
our redemption.  And thus it is that Behmen appeals to all his readers, that if they will only
go down deep enough into their own hearts--then, there, down there, deeper than indwelling
sin, deeper than original sin, deep down and seated in the very substance and centre of their
souls--they will come upon secret and unexpected seeds of the Divine Life.