"I am very sorry indeed, that Mr. Ehrenreich should suffer from my children's noise;" said
Mrs. Birkenfeld, understanding at once the state of the case, "if Mr. Ehrenreich does not walk
out at all, he certainly ought to have an unusually airy place to work in. I have an idea;
quite at the farthest end of our garden, away from the house, and from the frequented part
of the grounds, stands a cool summer house, with seats and a table. If Mr. Ehrenreich would
use that for his study, I would direct the children to keep entirely away from that part of
the garden."

Aunt Ninette was delighted with this proposal; she said she would suggest it to her husband,
and she was sure that he would accept it with many thanks.

"And you, my dear little girl, I hope your Aunt will allow you to come to see us to-day and
every day. You shall get well in our garden; my children have much to make up to you for."

"Can I really go into that beautiful garden where the children are?" asked little Dora, who
could scarcely believe in her good fortune; and such a look of gladness shot from her eyes
at the thought, that her aunt looked at her with surprise, for she had never seen an expression
like that in them before. This beam of delight that transfigured the child's face, spoke so
directly to Mrs. Birkenfeld's heart, that tears came to her eyes, and she loved the child from
that moment. She did not know why or wherefore; yet these joyfully-beaming eyes had stirred
a whole world of slumbering recollections in her heart.

It was arranged that directly after dinner Dora should go over into the garden, and stay there
till late in the evening. Thereupon Mrs. Birkenfeld took her leave.

Aunt Ninette hastened at once to her husband's study, and laid the new plan before him. Uncle
Titus received it with pleasure, for although the want of fresh air was becoming very trying
to him, yet taking a walk for air and exercise was something he had never been accustomed to,
and he could not make up his mind to the loss of so much valuable time. The offer was therefore
very seasonable. He even proposed to go to the summer-house directly, and his wife accompanied
him. They took the longest way, round the outside of the garden, so as to avoid meeting any
one. At the farthest end they came to a little garden-gate which led directly to the secluded
summer-house. Close to the little house were two old nut-trees and a weeping willow, with thick
pendent branches, and behind, far away into the distance, stretched the soft green meadows.
Far and near, all was perfectly still. Uncle Titus had brought several thick books with him,
under each arm, for he thought he should like to take possession at once, if he found it to
his mind. Aunt Ninette carried the inkstand and paper, and Dora brought up the rear, with cigars
and the wax-taper.

Mr. Ehrenreich was well pleased with the place; he settled himself at once, took his seat at
the table, drew in a long breath of the pure air which blew in through the open doors and windows,
and softly rubbed his hands with satisfaction. He began to write directly, and Aunt Ninette
and Dora withdrew, and left him alone to his work.

By this time the news of the twins' exploit of yesterday, had spread through the house. For
when Rolf returned from his morning lessons, he went straight for his bow, and of course discovered
at once the loss of one arrow. Very much incensed, he ran about the house to find out who had
been meddling with his property. He had little trouble in discovering the offenders, for the
twins were so broken down by the suffering they had been through, that they confessed at once,
and told him the whole story, including their horror at the cry of pain, and adding that their
mother had now gone to the cottage, to inquire who had been hit. Then they showed Rolf where
they had fired the arrow through the hedge, and to be sure there it was, lying on the ground,
in Mrs. Kurd's garden. The recovery of his treasure put Rolf again in good-humor. He rushed
back to the house, calling out, "Jule, Paula, did you know that the twins shot a child yesterday?"
And so it came about that all six of the children, and Miss Hanenwinkel, besides, stood on
the stone steps, on tip-toe with excitement, awaiting the mother's return from the cottage.
The moment she appeared, Hunne called out, "Where was it hit?" and then each one asked a different
question, and all at once:

"Is it a child?" "Is it a boy?" "How big is it?" "What is its name?" "Is it much hurt?"

"Come into the house, first," said the mother, turning a deaf ear to the shower of questions;
and when they were clustered about her in the house, she told them about the pale, delicate
little maiden, with a bandage upon her arm, so tight that she could scarcely use it. She said
that the child was apparently about Paula's age; that she spoke excellent German, and looked
very nice and well-bred; that her name was Dora, and last of all, that she was to come into
the garden after dinner, and then they could make her acquaintance. All was now curiosity and
excitement; how did the child look--what would she say? And each began to speculate what his
own particular relation would be to the new-comer.

Paula stood still in intense delight; and only said, "Oh, if she is so nice, and just my age,
too, mamma, how happy I shall be!" She had visions of a great, indissoluble friendship, and
she could hardly wait till afternoon. Rolf was sure that Dora was just the right age to guess
his charades, and that he should make friends with her at once on that ground. The twins had
a feeling that Dora belonged especially to them, because they had shot her; and they thought
she would be the very one to help them in carrying out their schemes; for they often needed
a third person, and Paula was never in the mood.

"Well, I am glad that Dora is coming," said Hunne, "for I can go to her Saturdays, when all
the chairs are standing on their heads, and no one else will have me."

Last of all Jule asked, "Hunne, I want to get some good out of Dora, too, what shall it be?"

"I know," said the child, after thinking awhile, "she can help you get off your riding-boots--you
know there weren't enough of us, last time."

"The very thing," said Jule, laughing.

Dora was also greatly excited--she fairly trembled. One moment she did not know what to do
for joy that the longed-for happiness had come, and she was to go into the garden, among the
lovely, sweet-smelling flowers, and all those merry children. But the next moment she was afraid.
She had watched the children from a distance, and she knew them all by sight; she already felt
partly acquainted with them, and each one had excited an individual interest in her mind. But
they had not even seen her, at all; she was a perfectly strange child to them. And then she
said to herself with real distress, that she was so ignorant and awkward, and they knew so
much, and were so clever, that they would certainly despise her, and would want to have nothing
to do with her. She kept running it all over and over in her mind during dinner, and could
scarcely eat a mouthful, in her excitement. Before she knew it, the time had come, and her
aunt said,

"Now, Dora, you can go!"

So Dora put on her hat and went over to the next house. She went in at the front door, and
passed through the long entry, at the other end of which the door into the garden stood open.
Going out of this door she found herself in full view of the whole family. Directly in front
of her, under the apple-tree, sat Mr. and Mrs. Birkenfeld, and round about them were the six
children. Her timidity came back again, at seeing the parents, for she had expected to see
only the children. She stood hesitating, and glanced shyly at the company. Little Hunne caught
sight of her, and slipping down from his seat, ran toward her with outstretched arms, crying out,

"Come, Dora, there is room here on my seat; Come!" and seizing her hand, he pulled her along
toward the others, who all came eagerly to meet her, and welcomed her as cordially as if she
were an old friend. So, occupied with questions and greetings, she came to where the parents
sat, and they were so friendly and kind, that all her shyness passed away, and she was soon
sitting on the same seat with Hunne, in the midst of the circle, as much at home as if she
belonged there.

Mr. and Mrs. Birkenfeld soon left their seats and walked up and down the garden; and then the
children pressed round Dora, and each had some particular thing to say to her. Paula spoke
least; but she looked at the new acquaintance, as if she were making a study of her. Rolf,
Wili and Lili stood as near Dora as they could squeeze, to make her hear what they were saying,
and Hunne kept fast hold of her, as if afraid that she would vanish away.

"If you squeeze Dora to death the first time she makes us a visit, she will not come a second
time;" remarked Julius, who sat stretched out at full length on a garden-bench; "so take my
advice, and give her room to breathe."

"How old are you, Dora? Not much older than I am?" asked Lili eagerly.

"I am just twelve."

"Oh, what a shame! then you are as old as Paula;" said Lili regretfully, who had hoped that
Dora would belong to her in every respect, even in age.

"No, no," cried Rolf, "Dora is my age; at least nearer mine than Paula's, if she is only just
twelve."

Rolf thought this opened a favorable prospect for special companionship. "Are you good at guessing
riddles? And are you fond of them?"

"Yes, yes, and I have made a riddle;" cried Hunne, putting in his oar, "Now guess mine, Dora.
My first you can eat but not drink"--

Rolf cut the little boy's charade ruthlessly in two with,

"Oh, get away with your old riddle, Hunne; it is no riddle at all! Now listen, Dora;

"My first conceals from light of day--" But Rolf was not destined to finish his verses, for
Lili had seized Dora's hand and was pulling her with all her might, saying,

"Come, Dora, I will play you everything I know." Dora had asked her if she was the one who
played on the piano, and Lili thought this a good excuse for stealing the new friend for herself.
Lili had her way, for Dora really wanted to hear the piano, though she did not like to disappoint
Rolf.

"You must not take it amiss," she said, turning back to speak to him, as Lili drew her away,
"I am not good at guessing, and I should only bother you with my stupidity."

"Won't you try just one?" asked Rolf, rather disappointed.

"Oh, yes, if you want me to. I will try bye and bye," she called back, for Lili was fairly
dragging her towards the house. Hunne had not let go his hold of Dora, and was pulled along
too. He kept calling out, "Mine too, guess mine too," and she promised that she would do her
best. Wili also went with them, and all four betook themselves to the school-room where the
piano stood. The twins had been taking music lessons from Miss Hanenwinkel for more than a
year, not so much because their parents cared about having them learn to play on the piano,
as because they thought the lessons would be a pleasant occupation, and the music would have
a soothing effect on the children's somewhat restless dispositions; and moreover, last but
by no means least, the twins could not be up to any mischievous pranks, while they were busy
practising.

Now that they stood before the piano, Lili's ardor for playing it somewhat cooled, and she
reverted to her usual point of view with regard to it.

"You know, Dora, of course," she said, "that playing on the piano is the most tedious thing
in the world. Why, when I have to practise, I get perfectly tired to death, don't you, Wili?"
Wili assented emphatically.

"How can you feel so?" asked Dora, casting a longing look at the piano, "Oh, if I could only
sit down there and play as you do, Lili, I should be perfectly happy."

"Do you really think so?" said Lili, struck with the expression of Dora's eyes. She opened
the piano quickly, and began to play a little melody. Dora sat by, thirstily drinking in the
sounds, and looking as charmed as if Lili were conferring some substantial benefit upon her.
The sight of her pleasure was very inspiriting to Lili, who kept on playing better and better,
and when Wili saw the impression produced, he wanted to take his share.

"Now let me play, Lili," he said, as she came to the end; but Lili was now quite in the spirit
of it, and did not stop for an instant, but began to repeat the piece from the beginning.

"Do you know any other tune?" asked Dora.

"No; Miss Hanenwinkel will not teach me another till I have learned my exercises better; but
I know what I will do, Dora, just wait till to-morrow, and then I will give you music lessons,
and we will learn ever so many tunes. She was to find. ""

Dora will renounce, "you answer ll." it begin her was decided up
dora, had loaded all?

"" yes. "" she up-Hamburg.

"" him like declaring for-plate, "she give her." we wake me said,.,
"we asked, talk should be hoped." talk, Birkenfeld, do not answer
to hunne.

"" you been once, "she teach she exclaimed, plate." that there is
my day, Hunne, you.

Bargain. "" how can find meantime to find she lose she eat she like
than?

Paula can tell meantime eat she begin it is worse to able to be eaten
like Dora.

Find, him do you give the last one is great cakes that she so had
been eaten except it is worse to be better quiet to be spread little
table who had been made.

"" jule, remarkably? "it shout the was made." what go over trope
were to be spread for warning?

"" she is one, Hunne. She did not wake, questions, you will there can be
decided so felt to tell. She, supper, meals there can not have eaten
her Hunne what do me. "" she did not teach'moment, softly? "oh." oh.
"" it tell to reprimand the good. "" she answer she have not be eaten
you tell cake?

"." she state him liked she was living you had to help?
"". "" there is that lessons, karlsruhe? "" she lose she have won
at her.

"" she learn
you was hoped. We is not be felt. "" she eat not be only. Things who
had almost. "" they are not be overjoyed. "". I were to come, you
had equilibrium, warning.

"" very, we have done delightful.
"" things there had stuff up Boots, Hunne.

"" her will not been made.

"". "you dora time

.


Up to this time, Paula had not made any attempt to talk with Dora; but when supper was over,
she came up to her, and said, softly,

"Will you come with me a little while now?"

Dora was delighted with the invitation, for she had begun to be afraid that Paula did not mean
to have anything to say to her, and yet she had been particularly attracted toward this quiet
girl, so near her own age. Paula had wanted to see what sort of a girl Dora was, before she
made advances, and she was evidently well pleased with what she saw, for she now took her new
friend by the hand, and led her away down the garden path. The twins and Hunne, and even Rolf,
were soon tired of waiting for Dora to come back, and went calling and searching everywhere
for her; but they could not find her; she had quite disappeared. In fact, Paula had taken her
all round the garden, and then up to her own room. There the two girls sat and talked, and
talked, about all sorts of things. They told each other their thoughts and feelings on various
subjects, and found themselves in perfect sympathy. It was a great happiness to both, for neither
had ever had an intimate friend, of her own age, one whose tastes, purposes and ideals were
like her own.

"Now we will be 'best friends' forever," they said, and sat, forgetful of all the world besides,
till the stars stood shining in the heavens above, and all the earth was bathed in shadow.

The mother found them at last; she had suspected that they had taken refuge in Paula's room.
Dora sprang up hastily when she noticed how dark it had grown, and recollected that her aunt
would be expecting her. The other children were waiting below, rather a dissatisfied little
party at Dora's disappearance; for they all wanted to talk to her. Rolf was particularly annoyed.

"Why Dora," he said, "I thought you were going to guess my charade; will you try now?"

But Dora said it was really time for her to go home; so Mrs. Birkenfeld told them that they
must wait till to-morrow for all they had to say, and that Dora would come every day to see
them and would take lessons with them too. This satisfied them, and they charged Dora to come
very early and stay very late, for there was a great deal to do and a great deal to show her.
The leave taking lasted a long time, but Rolf suddenly cut the thing short.

He was going to have the last word with Dora, for he was to walk home with her. As they crossed
the grass plot towards the cottage, the stars were shining so brightly overhead, that Dora
stood still.

"Look up, Rolf;" she said, "do you see those five twinkling stars up there? I know them very
well; they were my own stars in Karlsruhe, and they are here with me too."

"Oh yes, I've seen those; they are on our map of the Heavens. Do you know their names, Dora?"

"No, indeed; can you tell the names of the stars Rolf? How much you do know!" said Dora admiringly.
"Don't those five all belong together, and have one name? There are others too that look as
if they belonged together. Do you know them all? How I should like to learn them from you!"

Rolf was much pleased with the idea of giving lessons in astronomy, to one so eager to learn.

"Let us begin now," said he enthusiastically; "I will tell them all to you one after another,
even if it takes till midnight."

This reminded Dora how late it was.

"No, Rolf" she said quickly, "thank you very much, but no more to-night. To-morrow; will you
tell me to-morrow?"

"Well, to-morrow then, Dora, don't forget. Good-night."

"Good-night, Rolf;" and Dora hurried into the house. She was so brimming over with happiness
and the many pleasures of the day, that she sprang up-stairs to Aunt Ninette, and began to
tell her everything all mixed up together, with such astonishing vivacity, that her aunt drew
back rather startled.

"Dora! Dora! think a minute! this excitement may go to your arm! Go to sleep as quick as you
can; that is the best thing you can do."

Dora went to her bed-room, but sleep was impossible. She knelt down at her bed-side and gave
heart-felt thanks to God for sending her all this happiness; she resolved that when these holidays
were over she would go back to her work again without complaint; no matter how long the hours
might be, and she would never forget these happy days that the good God had sent her now. It
was long before she could close her eyes for very bliss.

CHAPTER VIII.

MORE CHARADES.

Early the next day, as Julius was clattering along the passage with his big riding-boots and
spurs, he heard the sounds of practising in the school-room, and knowing that Miss Hanenwinkel
did not give lessons at this hour, he pushed open the door to see what was going on. There
sat Lili at the piano, and Wili stood by, looking as if he were impatiently counting every
minute till he could have his turn.

"What are you two about?" he called out, "is this the beginning of some mischievous prank?"

