Skip Doughty, Tiffany Vergon, Charles Franks, and the Online Distributed

SUNNY MEMORIES OF FOREIGN LANDS.

BY MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE, Author of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," Etc.

  ..... "When thou haply seest
  Some rare note-worthy object in thy travels,
  Make me partake of thy happiness."
                           SHAKESPEARE

IN TWO VOLUMES. VOL. II.

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LETTER XIX. Breakfast.--Macaulay.--Hallam.--Milman.--Sir R. Inglis.-- Lunch at Surrey Parsonage.--Dinner
at Sir E. Buxton's.

LETTER XX. Dinner at Lord Shaftesbury's.

LETTER XXI. Stoke Newington.--Exeter Hall.--Antislavery Meeting.

LETTER XXII. Windsor.--The Picture Gallery.--Eton.--The Poet Gray.

LETTER XXIII. Rev. Mr. Gurney.--Richmond, the Artist.--Kossuth.-- Pembroke Lodge.--Dinner at
Lord John Russell's.--Lambeth Palace.

LETTER XXIV. Playford Hall.--Clarkson.

LETTER XXV. Joseph Sturge.--The "Times" upon Dressmaking.--Duke of Argyle.-- Sir David Brewster.--Lord
Mahon.--Mr. Gladstone.

LETTER XXVI. London Milliners.--Lord Shaftesbury.

LETTER XXVII. Archbishop of Canterbury's Sermon to the Ragged Scholars.--Mr. Cobden.--Miss
Greenfield's Concert.--Rev. S. R. Ward. --Lady Byron.--Mrs. Jameson.--George Thompson.--Ellen
Crafts.

LETTER XXVIII. Model Lodging Houses.--Lodging House Act.--Washing Houses.

LETTER XXIX. Benevolent Movements.--The Poor Laws.--The Insane.-- Factory Operatives.--Schools, &c.

LETTER XXX. Presentation at Surrey Chapel.--House of Parliament.-- Miss Greenfield's Second
Concert.--Sir John Malcolm.--The Charity Children.--Mrs. Gaskell.--Thackeray.

JOURNAL. London to Paris.--Church Music.--The Shops.--The Louvre.--Music at the Tuileries.--A
Salon.--Versailles.--M. Belloc.

LETTER XXXI. The Louvre.--The Venus de Milon.

JOURNAL. M. Belloc's Studio.--M. Charpentier.--Salon Musicale.--Peter Parley.--Jardin Mabille.--Remains
of Nineveh.--The Emperor.-- Versailles.--Sartory.--Pere la Chaise.--Adolphe Monod.--Paris to
Lyons.--Diligence to Geneva.--Mont Blanc.--Lake Leman.

LETTER XXXII. Route to Chamouni.--Glaciers.

LETTER XXXIII. Chamouni.--Rousse, the Mule.--The Ascent.

JOURNAL. The Alps.

LETTER XXXIV. The Ice Fields.

JOURNAL. Chamouni to Martigny.--Humors of the Mules.

LETTER XXXV. Alpine Flowers.--Pass of the Tete Noir.

JOURNAL. The Same.

LETTER XXXVI. Ascent to St. Bernard.--The Dogs.

LETTER XXXVII. Castle Chillon.--Bonnevard.--Mont Blanc from Geneva.--Luther and Calvin.--Madame
De Wette.--M. Fazy.

JOURNAL. A Serenade.--Lausanne.--Freyburg.--Berne.--The Staubbach.-- Grindelwald.

LETTER XXXVIII. Wengern Alps.--Flowers.--Glaciers.--The Eiger.

JOURNAL. Glaciers.--Interlachen.--Sunrise in the Mountains.--Monument to the Swiss Guards of
Louis XVI.--Basle.--Strasbourg.

LETTER XXXIX. Strasbourg.

LETTER XL. The Rhine.--Heidelberg.

JOURNAL. To Frankfort.

LETTER XLI. Frankfort.--Lessing's "Trial of Huss."

JOURNAL. To Cologne.--The Cathedral.

LETTER XXII. Cologne.--Church of St. Ursula.--Relics.--Dusseldorf.

JOURNAL. To Leipsic.--M. Tauchnitz.--Dresden.--The Gallery.--Berlin.

LETTER XLIII. The Dresden Gallery.--Schoeffer.

LETTER XLIV. Berlin.--The Palace.--The Museum.

LETTER XLV. Wittenberg.--Luther's House.--Melanchthon's House.

LETTER XLVI. Erfurt.--The Cathedral.--Luther's Cell.--The Wartburg.

JOURNAL. The Smoker discomfited.--Antwerp.--The Cathedral Chimes.--To Paris.

LETTER XLVII. Antwerp.--Rubens.

LETTER XLVIII.

Paris.--School of Design.--Egyptian and Assyrian Remains.--Mrs. S. C. Hall.--The Pantheon.--The
Madeleine.--Notre Dame.--Beranger.--French Character.--Observance of Sunday.

JOURNAL. Seasickness on the Channel.

LETTER XLIX.

York.--Castle Howard.--Leeds.--Fountains Abbey.--Liverpool.--Irish Deputation.--Departure.

LETTER XIX.

May 19.

Well, my dear, so far as relates to the mere outward husk of the soul, our engravers and daguerreotypists
have done their work as well as they usually do. The engraving that you get in the best editions
of his works may be considered, I suppose, a fair representation of how he looks, when he sits
to have his picture taken, which is generally very different from the way any body looks at
any other time. People seem to forget, in taking likenesses, that the features of the face
are nothing but an alphabet, and that a dry, dead map of a person's face gives no more idea
how one looks than the simple presentation of an alphabet shows what there is in a poem.

Macaulay's whole physique gives you the impression of great strength and stamina of constitution.
He has the kind of frame which we usually imagine as peculiarly English; short, stout, and
firmly knit. There is something hearty in all his demonstrations. He speaks in that full, round,
rolling voice, deep from the chest, which we also conceive of as being more common in England
than America. As to his conversation, it is just like his writing; that is to say, it shows
very strongly the same qualities of mind.

I was informed that he is famous for a most uncommon memory; one of those men to whom it seems
impossible to forget any thing once read; and he has read all sorts of things that can be thought
of, in all languages. A gentleman told me that he could repeat all the old Newgate literature,
hanging ballads, last speeches, and dying confessions; while his knowledge of Milton is so
accurate, that, if his poems were blotted out of existence, they might be restored simply from
his memory. This same accurate knowledge extends to the Latin and Greek classics, and to much
of the literature of modern Europe. Had nature been required to make a man to order, for a
perfect historian, nothing better could have been put together, especially since there is enough
of the poetic fire included in the composition, to fuse all these multiplied materials together,
and color the historical crystallization with them.

Macaulay is about fifty. He has never married; yet there are unmistakable evidences in the
breathings and aspects of the family circle by whom he was surrounded, that the social part
is not wanting in his conformation. Some very charming young lady relatives seemed to think
quite as much of their gifted uncle as you might have done had he been yours.

Macaulay is celebrated as a conversationalist; and, like Coleridge, Carlyle, and almost every
one who enjoys this reputation, he has sometimes been accused of not allowing people their
fair share in conversation. This might prove an objection, possibly, to those who wish to talk;
but as I greatly prefer to hear, it would prove none to me. I must say, however, that on this
occasion the matter was quite equitably managed. There were, I should think, some twenty or
thirty at the breakfast table, and the conversation formed itself into little eddies of two
or three around the table, now and then welling out into a great bay of general discourse.

Milman's appearance is quite striking; tall, stooping, with a keen black eye and perfectly
white hair--a singular and poetic contrast. He began upon architecture and Westminster Abbey--a
subject to which I am always awake. I told him I had not yet seen Westminster; for I was now
busy in seeing life and the present, and by and by I meant to go there and see death and the past.

Milman was for many years dean of Westminster, and kindly offered me his services, to indoctrinate
me into its antiquities.

Macaulay made some suggestive remarks on cathedrals generally. I said that I thought it singular
that we so seldom knew who were the architects that designed these great buildings; that they
appeared to me the most sublime efforts of human genius.

He said that all the cathedrals of Europe were undoubtedly the result of one or two minds;
that they rose into existence very nearly contemporaneously, and were built by travelling companies
of masons, under the direction of some systematic organization. Perhaps you knew all this before,
but I did not; and so it struck me as a glorious idea. And if it is not the true account of
the origin of cathedrals, it certainly ought to be; and, as our old grandmother used to say,
"I'm going to believe it."

Looking around the table, and seeing how every body seemed to be enjoying themselves, I said
to Macaulay, that these breakfast parties were a novelty to me; that we never had them in America,
but that I thought them the most delightful form of social life.

He seized upon the idea, as he often does, and turned it playfully inside out, and shook it
on all sides, just as one might play with the lustres of a chandelier--to see them glitter.
He expatiated on the merits of breakfast parties as compared with all other parties. He said
dinner parties are mere formalities. You invite a man to dinner because you must invite him;
because you are acquainted with his grandfather, or it is proper you should; but you invite
a man to breakfast because you want to see him. You may be sure, if you are invited to breakfast,
there is something agreeable about you. This idea struck me as very sensible; and we all, generally
having the fact before our eyes that we were invited to breakfast, approved the sentiment.

"Yes," said Macaulay, "depend upon it; if a man is a bore he never gets an invitation to breakfast."

"Rather hard on the poor bores," said a lady.

"Particularly," said Macaulay, laughing, "as bores are usually the most irreproachable of human
beings. Did you ever hear a bore complained of when they did not say that he was the best fellow
in the world? For my part, if I wanted to get a guardian for a family of defenceless orphans,
I should inquire for the greatest bore in the vicinity. I should know that he would be a man
of unblemished honor and integrity."

The conversation now went on to Milton and Shakspeare. Macaulay made one remark that gentlemen
are always making, and that is, that there is very little characteristic difference between
Shakspeare's women. Well, there is no hope for that matter; so long as men are not women they
will think so. In general they lump together Miranda, Juliet, Desdemona, and Viola,

  "As matter too soft a lasting mark to bear,
  And best distinguished as black, brown, or fair."

It took Mrs. Jameson to set this matter forth in her Characteristics of Women; a book for which
Shakspeare, if he could get up, ought to make her his best bow, especially as there are fine
things ascribed to him there, which, I dare say, he never thought of, careless fellow that
he was! But, I take it, every true painter, poet, and artist is in some sense so far a prophet
that his utterances convey more to other minds than he himself knows; so that, doubtless, should
all the old masters rise from the dead, they might be edified by what posterity has found in
their works.

Some how or other, we found ourselves next talking about Sidney Smith; and it was very pleasant
to me, recalling the evenings when your father has read and we have laughed over him, to hear
him spoken of as a living existence, by one who had known him. Still, I have always had a quarrel
with Sidney, for the wicked use to which he put his wit, in abusing good old Dr. Carey, and
the missionaries in India; nay, in some places he even stooped to be spiteful and vulgar. I
could not help, therefore, saying, when Macaulay observed that he had the most agreeable wit
of any literary man of his acquaintance, "Well, it was very agreeable, but it could not have
been very agreeable to the people who came under the edge of it," and instanced his treatment
of Dr. Carey. Some others who were present seemed to feel warmly on this subject, too, and
Macaulay said,--

"Ah, well, Sidney repented of that, afterwards." He seemed to cling to his memory, and to turn
from every fault to his joviality, as a thing he could not enough delight to remember.

Truly, wit, like charity, covers a multitude of sins. A man who has the faculty of raising
a laugh in this sad, earnest world is remembered with indulgence and complacency, always. Lord
Glenelg, formerly Sir Charles Grant, himself has been the author of several pieces of poetry,
which were in their time quite popular.

The historian Hallam was also present, whose Constitutional History, you will remember, gave
rise to one of Macaulay's finest reviews; a quiet, retiring man, with a benignant, somewhat
sad, expression of countenance. The loss of an only son has cast a shadow over his life. It
was on this son that Tennyson wrote his "In Memoriam."

Sir Robert H. Inglis was also present, and Mr. S. held considerable conversation with him.
Knowing that he was both high tory and high church, it was an agreeable surprise to find him
particularly gentle and bland in manners, earnest and devout in religious sentiment. I have
heard him spoken of, even among dissenters, as a devout and earnest man. Another proof this
of what mistakes we fall into when we judge the characters of persons at a distance, from what
we suppose likely to be the effect of their sentiments. We often find the professed aristocrat
gentle and condescending, and the professed supporter of forms spiritual.

I think it very likely there may have been other celebrities present, whom I did not know.
I am always finding out, a day or two after, that I have been with somebody very remarkable,
and did not know it at the time.

After breakfast we found, on consulting our list, that we were to lunch at Surrey parsonage.

Of all the cities I was ever in, London is the most absolutely unmanageable, it takes so long
to get any where; wherever you want to go it seems to take you about two hours to get there.
From the West End down into the city is a distance that seems all but interminable. London
is now more than ten miles long. And yet this monster city is stretching in all directions
yearly, and where will be the end of it nobody knows. Southey says, "I began to study the map
of London, though dismayed at its prodigious extent. The river is no assistance to a stranger
in finding his way; there is no street along its banks, and no eminence from whence you can
look around and take your bearings."

You may take these reflections as passing through my mind while we were driving through street
after street, and going round corner after corner, towards the parsonage.

Surrey Chapel and parsonage were the church and residence of the celebrated Kowland Hill. At
present the incumbent is the Rev. Mr. Sherman, well known to many of our American clergy by
the kind hospitalities and attentions with which he has enriched their stay in London. The
church maintains a medium rank between Congregationalism and Episcopacy, retaining part of
the ritual, but being independent in its government. The kindness of Mr. Sherman had assembled
here a very agreeable company, among whom were Farquhar Tupper, the artist Cruikshank, from
whom I received a call the other morning, and Mr. Pilatte, M. P. Cruikshank is an old man with
gray hair and eyebrows, strongly marked features, and keen eyes. He talked to me something
about the promotion of temperance by a series of literary sketches illustrated by his pencil.

I sat by a lady who was well acquainted with Kingsley, the author of Alton Locke, Hypatia,
and other works, with whom I had some conversation with regard to the influence of his writings.

She said that he had been instrumental in rescuing from infidelity many young men whose minds
had become unsettled; that he was a devoted and laborious clergyman, exerting himself, without
any cessation, for the good of his parish.

After the company were gone I tried to get some rest, as my labors were not yet over, we being
engaged to dine at Sir Edward Buxton's. This was our most dissipated day in London. We never
tried the experiment again of going to three parties in one day.

By the time I got to my third appointment I was entirely exhausted. I met here some, however,
whom I was exceedingly interested to see; among them Samuel Gurney, brother of Elizabeth Fry,
with his wife and family. Lady Edward Buxton is one of his daughters. All had that air of benevolent
friendliness which is characteristic of the sect.

Dr. Lushington, the companion and venerable associate of Wilberforce and Clarkson, was also
present. He was a member of Parliament with Wilberforce forty or fifty years ago. He is now
a judge of the admiralty court, that is to say, of the law relating to marine affairs. This
is a branch of law which the nature of our government in America makes it impossible for us
to have. He is exceedingly brilliant and animated in conversation.

Dr. Cunningham, the author of World without Souls, was present. There was there also a master
of Harrow School.

He told me an anecdote, which pleased me for several reasons; that once, when the queen visited
the school, she put to him the inquiry, "whether the educational system of England did not
give a disproportionate attention to the study of the ancient classics." His reply was, "that
her majesty could best satisfy her mind on that point by observing what men the public schools
of England had hitherto produced;" certainly a very adroit reply, yet one which would be equally
good against the suggestion of any improvement whatever. We might as well say, see what men
we have been able to raise in America without any classical education at all; witness Benjamin
Franklin, George Washington, and Roger Sherman.

It is a curious fact that Christian nations, with one general consent, in the early education
of youth neglect the volume which they consider inspired, and bring the mind, at the most susceptible
period, under the dominion of the literature and mythology of the heathen world; and that,
too, when the sacred history and poetry are confessedly superior in literary quality. Grave
doctors of divinity expend their forces in commenting on and teaching things which would be
utterly scouted, were an author to publish them in English as original compositions. A Christian
community has its young men educated in Ovid and Anacreon, but is shocked when one of them
comes out in English with Don Juan; yet, probably, the latter poem is purer than either.

The English literature and poetry of the time of Pope and Dryden betray a state of association
so completely heathenized, that an old Greek or Roman raised from the dead could scarce learn
from them that any change had taken place in the religion of the world; and even Milton often
pains one by introducing second-hand pagan mythology into the very shadow of the eternal throne.
In some parts of the Paradise Lost, the evident imitations of Homer are to me the poorest and
most painful passages.

The adoration of the ancient classics has lain like a dead weight on all modern art and literature;
because men, instead of using them simply for excitement and inspiration, have congealed them
into fixed, imperative rules. As the classics have been used, I think, wonderful as have been
the minds educated under them, there would have been more variety and originality without them.

With which long sermon on a short text, I will conclude my letter.

LETTER XX.

Thursday, May 12. My dear I.:--

Yesterday, what with my breakfast, lunch, and dinner, I was, as the fashionable saying is,
"fairly knocked up." This expression, which I find obtains universally here, corresponds to
what we mean by being "used up." They talk of Americanisms, and I have a little innocent speculation
now and then concerning Anglicisms. I certainly find several here for which I can perceive
no more precedent in the well of "English undefiled," than for some of ours; for instance,
this being "knocked up," which is variously inflected, as, for example, in the form of a participial
adjective, as a "knocking up" affair; in the form of a noun, as when they say "such a person
has got quite a knocking up," and so on.

The fact is, if we had ever had any experience in London life we should not have made three
engagements in one day. To my simple eye it is quite amusing to see how they manage the social
machine here. People are under such a pressure of engagements, that they go about with their
lists in their pockets. If A wants to invite B to dinner, out come their respective lists.
A says he has only Tuesday and Thursday open for this week. B looks down his list, and says
that the days are all closed. A looks along, and says that he has no day open till next Wednesday
week. B, however, is going to leave town Tuesday; so that settles the matter as to dining;
so they turn back again, and try the breakfasting; for though you cannot dine in but one place
a day, yet, by means of the breakfast and the lunch, you can make three social visits if you
are strong enough.

Then there are evening parties, which begin at ten o'clock. The first card of the kind that
was sent me, which was worded, "At home at ten o'clock," I, in my simplicity, took to be ten
in the morning.

But here are people staying out night after night till two o'clock, sitting up all night in
Parliament, and seeming to thrive upon it. There certainly is great apology for this in London,
if it is always as dark, drizzling, and smoky in the daytime as it has been since I have been
here. If I were one of the London people I would live by gaslight as they do, for the streets
and houses are altogether pleasanter by gaslight than by daylight. But to ape these customs
under our clear, American skies, so contrary to our whole social system, is simply ridiculous.

This morning I was exceedingly tired, and had a perfect longing to get but of London into some
green fields--to get somewhere where there was nobody. So kind Mrs. B. had the carriage, and
off we drove together. By and by we found ourselves out in the country, and then I wanted to
get out and walk.

After a while a lady came along, riding a little donkey. These donkeys have amused me so much
since I have been here! At several places on the outskirts of the city they have them standing,
all girt up with saddles covered with white cloth, for ladies to ride on. One gets out of London
by means of an omnibus to one of these places, and then, for a few pence, can have a ride upon
one of them into the country. Mrs. B. walked by the side of the lady, and said to her something
which I did not hear, and she immediately alighted and asked me with great kindness if I wanted
to try the saddle; so I got upon the little beast, which was about as large as a good-sized
calf, and rode a few paces to try him. It is a slow, but not unpleasant gait, and if the creature
were not so insignificantly small, as to make you feel much as if you were riding upon a cat,
it would be quite a pleasant affair. After dismounting I crept through a hole in a hedge, and
looked for some flowers; and, in short, made the most that I could of my interview with nature,
till it came time to go home to dinner, for our dinner hour at Mr. B.'s is between one and
two; quite like home. In the evening we were to dine at Lord Shaftesbury's.

