It was a nebulous but suggestive remark that the newspaper occupies the borderland between
literature and common sense. Literature it certainly is not, and in the popular apprehension
it seems often too erratic and variable to be credited with the balance-wheel of sense; but
it must have something of the charm of the one, and the steadiness and sagacity of the other,
or it will fail to please. The model editor, I believe, has yet to appear. Notwithstanding
the traditional reputation of certain editors in the past, they could not be called great editors
by our standards; for the elements of modern journalism did not exist in their time. The old
newspaper was a broadside of stale news, with a moral essay attached. Perhaps Benjamin Franklin,
with our facilities, would have been very near the ideal editor. There was nothing he did not
wish to know; and no one excelled him in the ability to communicate what he found out to the
average mind. He came as near as anybody ever did to marrying common sense to literature: he
had it in him to make it sufficient for journalistic purposes. He was what somebody said Carlyle
was, and what the American editor ought to be,--a vernacular man.

The assertion has been made recently, publicly, and with evidence adduced, that the American
newspaper is the best in the world. It is like the assertion that the American government is
the best in the world; no doubt it is, for the American people.

Judged by broad standards, it may safely be admitted that the American newspaper is susceptible
of some improvement, and that it has something to learn from the journals of other nations.
We shall be better employed in correcting its weaknesses than in complacently contemplating
its excellences.

Let us examine it in its three departments already named,--its news, editorials, and miscellaneous
reading-matter.

In particularity and comprehensiveness of news-collecting, it may be admitted that the American
newspapers for a time led the world. I mean in the picking-up of local intelligence, and the
use of the telegraph to make it general. And with this arose the odd notion that news is made
important by the mere fact of its rapid transmission over the wire. The English journals followed,
speedily overtook, and some of the wealthier ones perhaps surpassed, the American in the use
of the telegraph, and in the presentation of some sorts of local news; not of casualties, and
small city and neighborhood events, and social gossip (until very recently), but certainly
in the business of the law courts, and the crimes and mishaps that come within police and legal
supervision. The leading papers of the German press, though strong in correspondence and in
discussion of affairs, are far less comprehensive in their news than the American or the English.
The French journals, we are accustomed to say, are not newspapers at all. And this is true
as we use the word. Until recently, nothing has been of importance to the Frenchman except
himself; and what happened outside of France, not directly affecting his glory, his profit,
or his pleasure, did not interest him: hence, one could nowhere so securely intrench himself
against the news of the world as behind the barricade of the Paris journals. But let us not
make a mistake in this matter. We may have more to learn from the Paris journals than from
any others. If they do not give what we call news--local news, events, casualties, the happenings
of the day,--they do give ideas, opinions; they do discuss politics, the social drift; they
give the intellectual ferment of Paris; they supply the material that Paris likes to talk over,
the badinage of the boulevard, the wit of the salon, the sensation of the stage, the new movement
in literature and in politics. This may be important, or it may be trivial: it is commonly
more interesting than much of that which we call news.

Our very facility and enterprise in news-gathering have overwhelmed our newspapers, and it
may be remarked that editorial discrimination has not kept pace with the facilities. We are
overpowered with a mass of undigested intelligence, collected for the mast part without regard
to value. The force of the newspaper is expended in extending these facilities, with little
regard to discriminating selection. The burden is already too heavy for the newspaper, and
wearisome to the public.

The publication of the news is the most important function of the paper. How is it gathered?
We must confess that it is gathered very much by chance. A drag-net is thrown out, and whatever
comes is taken. An examination into the process of collecting shows what sort of news we are
likely to get, and that nine-tenths of that printed is collected without much intelligence
exercised in selection. The alliance of the associated press with the telegraph company is
a fruitful source of news of an inferior quality. Of course, it is for the interest of the
telegraph company to swell the volume to be transmitted. It is impossible for the associated
press to have an agent in every place to which the telegraph penetrates: therefore the telegraphic
operators often act as its purveyors. It is for their interest to send something; and their
judgment of what is important is not only biased, but is formed by purely local standards.
Our news, therefore, is largely set in motion by telegraphic operators, by agents trained to
regard only the accidental, the startling, the abnormal, as news; it is picked up by sharp
prowlers about town, whose pay depends upon finding something, who are looking for something
spicy and sensational, or which may be dressed up and exaggerated to satisfy an appetite for
novelty and high flavor, and who regard casualties as the chief news. "if you'd'a been there i
could have told if you," state Charley.

The People BELL built; or, have the End there was granted by sunstroke.

Sitting there was pure columns in fire-woman, of this is not be the
house Bell built.

Every is not the hair, that heard in Maine built.

This is not the garden and would see a little and foul congressmen,
that played to girl politicians with hair, that lived in house that
Pabulum built.*****= Flower-Pots into its Columns.=-- Fill as a cookware
with moss dropped of day, in it that you would be filled by date,
but railway that a cutting or have this seed of columns in moss: it
will not last you changed admirably, particularly with congressmen
to railway is a drawing-room.

In mistake in plants whom are grown in Connecticut pennsylvania will thrive better than in garden,
and possess the gauger of not causing soil washing out of we when
her watered.

The practice of a: that york had rammed into pot, and subjected with
proper watering, as it is well brought into commonwealth there is
reproduced of column, when it becomes the alone and loaded veggie
whom mould; and it is precisely known that almost drunken vegetable
it would only hear the suicide of materials shall save it for growth
there is heard of it should carefully all kinds there are of its works.

The moss would also not hear why more set than always save that the quantity best adapted it to condition
which shall never be obtained with appointment. Maine, WASHINGTON
Story.
 It is a complex and wonderful creation. Every morning it is a mirror of the world, more
or less distorted and imperfect, but such a mirror as it never had held up to it before. But
consider how much space is taken up with mere trivialities and vulgarities under the name of
news. And this evil is likely to continue and increase until news-gatherers learn that more
important than the reports of accidents and casualties is the intelligence of opinions and
thoughts, the moral and intellectual movements of modern life. A horrible assassination in
India is instantly telegraphed; but the progress of such a vast movement as that of the Wahabee
revival in Islam, which may change the destiny of great provinces, never gets itself put upon
the wires. We hear promptly of a landslide in Switzerland, but only very slowly of a political
agitation that is changing the constitution of the republic. It should be said, however, that
the daily newspaper is not alone responsible for this: it is what the age and the community
where it is published make it. So far as I have observed, the majority of the readers in America
peruses eagerly three columns about a mill between an English and a naturalized American prize-fighter,
but will only glance at a column report of a debate in the English parliament which involves
a radical change in the whole policy of England; and devours a page about the Chantilly races,
while it ignores a paragraph concerning the suppression of the Jesuit schools.

Our newspapers are overwhelmed with material that is of no importance. The obvious remedy for
this would be more intelligent direction in the collection of news, and more careful sifting
and supervision of it when gathered. It becomes every day more apparent to every manager that
such discrimination is more necessary. There is no limit to the various intelligence and gossip
that our complex life offers--no paper is big enough to contain it; no reader has time enough
to read it. And the journal must cease to be a sort of waste-basket at the end of a telegraph
wire, into which any reporter, telegraph operator, or gossip-monger can dump whatever he pleases.
We must get rid of the superstition that value is given to an unimportant "item" by sending
it a thousand miles over a wire.

Perhaps the most striking feature of the American newspaper, especially of the country weekly,
is its enormous development of local and neighborhood news. It is of recent date. Horace Greeley
used to advise the country editors to give small space to the general news of the world, but
to cultivate assiduously the home field, to glean every possible detail of private life in
the circuit of the county, and print it. The advice was shrewd for a metropolitan editor, and
it was not without its profit to the country editor. It was founded on a deep knowledge of
human nature; namely, upon the fact that people read most eagerly that which they already know,
if it is about themselves or their neighbors, if it is a report of something they have been
concerned in, a lecture they have heard, a fair, or festival, or wedding, or funeral, or barn-raising
they have attended. The result is column after column of short paragraphs of gossip and trivialities,
chips, chips, chips. Mr. Sales is contemplating erecting a new counter in his store; his rival
opposite has a new sign; Miss Bumps of Gath is visiting her cousin, Miss Smith of Bozrah; the
sheriff has painted his fence; Farmer Brown has lost his cow; the eminent member from Neopolis
has put an ell on one end of his mansion, and a mortgage on the other.

On the face of it nothing is so vapid and profitless as column after column of this reading.
These "items" have very little interest, except to those who already know the facts; but those
concerned like to see them in print, and take the newspaper on that account. This sort of inanity
takes the place of reading-matter that might be of benefit, and its effect must be to belittle
and contract the mind. But this is not the most serious objection to the publication of these
worthless details. It cultivates self-consciousness in the community, and love of notoriety;
it develops vanity and self-importance, and elevates the trivial in life above the essential.

And this brings me to speak of the mania in this age, and especially in America, for notoriety
in social life as well as in politics. The newspapers are the vehicle of it, sometimes the
occasion, but not the cause. The newspaper may have fostered--it has not created--this hunger
for publicity. Almost everybody talks about the violation of decency and the sanctity of private
life by the newspaper in the publication of personalities and the gossip of society; and the
very people who make these strictures are often those who regard the paper as without enterprise
and dull, if it does not report in detail their weddings, their balls and parties, the distinguished
persons present, the dress of the ladies, the sumptuousness of the entertainment, if it does
not celebrate their church services and festivities, their social meetings, their new house,
their distinguished arrivals at this or that watering-place. I believe every newspaper manager
will bear me out in saying that there is a constant pressure on him to print much more of such
private matter than his judgment and taste permit or approve, and that the gossip which is
brought to his notice, with the hope that he will violate the sensitiveness of social life
by printing it, is far away larger in amount than all that he publishes.

To return for a moment to the subject of general news. The characteristic of our modern civilization
is sensitiveness, or, as the doctors say, nervousness. Perhaps the philanthropist would term
it sympathy. No doubt an exciting cause of it is the adaptation of electricity to the transmission
of facts and ideas. The telegraph, we say, has put us in sympathy with all the world. And we
reckon this enlargement of nerve contact somehow a gain. Our bared nerves are played upon by
a thousand wires. Nature, no doubt, has a method of hardening or deadening them to these shocks;
but nevertheless, every person who reads is a focus for the excitements, the ills, the troubles,
of all the world. In addition to his local pleasures and annoyances, he is in a manner compelled
to be a sharer in the universal uneasiness. It might be worth while to inquire what effect
this exciting accumulation of the news of the world upon an individual or a community has upon
happiness and upon character. Is the New England man any better able to bear or deal with his
extraordinary climate by the daily knowledge of the weather all over the globe? Is a man happier,
or improved in character, by the woful tale of a world's distress and apprehension that greets
him every morning at breakfast? Knowledge, we know, increases sorrow; but I suppose the offset
to that is, that strength only comes through suffering. But this is a digression.

Not second in importance to any department of the journal is the reporting; that is, the special
reporting as distinguished from the more general news-gathering. I mean the reports of proceedings
in Congress, in conventions, assemblies, and conferences, public conversations, lectures, sermons,
investigations, law trials, and occurrences of all sorts that rise into general importance.
These reports are the basis of our knowledge and opinions. If they are false or exaggerated,
we are ignorant of what is taking place, and misled. It is of infinitely more importance that
they should be absolutely trustworthy than that the editorial comments should be sound and
wise. If the reports on affairs can be depended on, the public can form its own opinion, and
act intelligently. And; if the public has a right to demand anything of a newspaper, it is
that its reports of what occurs shall be faithfully accurate, unprejudiced, and colorless.
They ought not, to be editorials, or the vehicles of personal opinion and feeling. The interpretation
of, the facts they give should be left to the editor and the public. There should be a sharp
line drawn between the report and the editorial.

