We remained for several days to let our animals recruit, as well as ourselves, then we went
back and got the wagons. We traveled westward through Carson Valley until we entered the Six
Mile Canon, the roughest piece of road that we found between Missouri and California. There
were great boulders from the size of a barrel to that of a stage coach, promiscuously piled
in the bed of this tributary to the Carson, and over which we were obliged to haul our wagons.
It took us two days to make the six miles.

Arrival In California.

Now we see Silver Lake, at the base of the Sierra Nevadas on the east side; our advance to
the summit was not as difficult as we anticipated. Having arrived at this point we are at the
source of the south fork of the American River and at the summit of the Sierra Nevadas. We
now commenced the descent on a tributary of this river.

After a day or two of travel we arrived at a place called Weaverville, on the tenth day of
September, 1849. This place consisted of one log cabin with numerous tents on either side.
Here was my first mining, but being weary and worn out, I was unable to wield the pick and
shovel, and so I left in a few days for Sacramento where I undertook to make a little money
by painting, but it was a failure, both as to workmanship and as to financial gain. However,
by this time I had gained some strength and left for Beal's Bar at the junction of the north
and south forks of the American River. Here I mined through the winter with some success.

In the spring of 1850 thirty of us formed a company for the purpose of turning the south fork
through a canal into the north fork, thereby draining about a thousand yards of the river bed.
Just as we had completed the dam and turned the water into the canal, the river rose and away
went our dam and our summer's work with it.

Winter coming on now nothing could be done until spring, so I left for San Francisco where
I had heard of the death of a friend at Burns' old diggings on the Merced River, about seventy-five
miles from Stockton, and knowing that his life was insured in favor of his wife I went there
and secured the necessary proof of his death so that his widow got the insurance. There was
considerable hardship in this little trip of about one week. On my return, and when within
about thirty miles of Stockton, I camped for the night at Knight's Ferry, picketed my pony
out, obtained the privilege of spreading my blankets on the ground in a tent and was soon in
a sound sleep, out of which I was awakened at about two o'clock in the morning by feeling things
considerably damp around me (for it had been raining). I put out my hand and found I was lying
in about three inches of water. I was not long getting out of it, rolled up my blankets, saddled
my pony and left for Stockton. Here I arrived at about nine o'clock, sold the pony, and was
ready to leave at four o'clock for San Francisco. While waiting here (Stockton) I became acquainted
with a Kentucky hunter who told me the story of his experiences of the day previous. He said:

"I came to the place where you stayed last night, yesterday morning, and was told that there
were a number of bears in the neighborhood, and that no one dared to hunt them. I remarked
that that was my business, and I would take a hand at it; I strapped on my revolvers and knife,
shouldered my Kentucky rifle and started out. I had not gone more than half a mile, when I
discovered one of the animals I was in search of, and away my bullet sped striking him in the
hip. I made for a tree and he made for me! I won the race by stopping on the topmost branch,
while he howled at the base; while reloading my rifle I heard an answer to his wailing for
me or for his companion--it didn't matter which. Very soon a second cry came from another direction,
and still one more from the third point of the compass. By this time one had reached the tree
and I fired killing him. Hastily reloading, I was just in time to fire as the second one responded
to the first one's howl; he fell dead; then the third arrived and shared the same fate. Having
allowed the first one to live as a decoy, his turn came last; then I descended and looked over
my work--four full-grown bears lay dead at my feet."

To corroborate this statement I will say that I saw one of them on the hooks in front of a
butcher shop in Stockton, and the other three went to San Francisco on the same boat that I
did. I met the hunter on the street about a week later and he told me that he realized seven
hundred dollars for his bears. I do not make the statement as a bear story, but as a bare fact.

Life In the Mines.

The preceding pages were written about twenty years ago, and only covered about one and one-half
years after leaving the Green Mountains of old Vermont. Since which time, I have experienced
nearly all of the vicissitudes of the State to the present time (1913). I will now attempt
to give an account of my stewardship from that time on. I date my arrival in the State, Weaverville,
about three miles below Hangtown (now Placerville), September 10th, 1849. This was where I
did my first mining, which was not, much of a success, on account of my weak condition caused
by my having the so-called "land scurvy," brought on from a want of vegetable food, and I left
for Sacramento City where I remained for a week or two and then left and went to Grass Valley.
There I made a little money, and went to Sacramento City and bought two wagon loads of goods,
went back to Grass Valley and started a hotel, ran it a few weeks, and the first thing I knew
I was "busted."

It is now in the winter of '49 and '50 and I went to Sacramento again, and from Sacramento
to Beal's Bar on the North Fork of the American River at the junction of the North and South
Forks. By this time I had gained my strength so that I was more like myself, and I bought a
rocker, pick, shovel and pan and went into the gulches for gold. I had fairly good luck until
spring. By this time I had laid by a few hundred dollars, and I joined a company of thirty
to turn the South Fork of the American River into the North Fork, by so doing we expected to
drain about one-fourth of a mile of the bed of the South Fork. The banks of the river were
rich and everything went to show that the bed of the river was very rich, and we went to work
with great hopes of a big harvest of gold. The first thing we did was to build a dam, and dig
a canal, which we accomplished in about four months. About this time snow and rain came on
in the mountains, raised the water in the river and washed away part of our dam. It was now
too late to build again that season.

Now you see the hopes and disappointments of the miner. While we were at work on the canal
we had occasion to blast some boulders that were in our way. We had a blacksmith to sharpen
the picks and drills who had a portable forge on the point of land between the two rivers.
When we were ready to blast the rock we gave him timely warning, he paid no heed, the blast
went off, and a portion of a boulder weighing about 500 pounds went directly for his forge
and within about six inches of his legs and went on over into the North Fork. The man turned
about and hollered to the boys in the canal "I surrender."

About this time the river had risen to such an extent that it was thought advisable to suspend
operations until the next spring. This was a dividing of the roads, and each member had to
look out for himself. I went to Mokelumne Hill, staked out some claims and went to work to
sink a shaft through the lava to bedrock. The lava on the surface is very hard, but grows softer
as you go down. While I was thus banging away with my pick and not making much headway, there
came along a Mr. Ferguson from San Francisco, on a mule. He stopped and looked at me a minute
and then said, "Young man, how deep do you expect to go before you reach bedrock?" I said,
"About 65 or 75 feet." "Well," said he, "by ---- you have got more pluck than any man I ever
saw." He went on and so did I, and I have not seen him since. It took me about two weeks to
get so that I could not throw the dirt to the surface, then I had to make a windlass, get a
tub and rope, and hire a man to help me at eight dollars a day, and 50 cents a point for sharpening
picks. These things completed and in operation, I was able to make two or three feet per day,
and we finally reached the bedrock at a depth of 97 feet. The last two feet in the bottom of
the shaft I saved for washing, and had to haul it about one mile to water. I washed it out
and realized 3 1/2 ounces of very coarse gold. Now we were on the bedrock and the next thing
to do was to start three drifts in as many directions. This called for two more men to work
the drifts, and a man with his team to haul the dirt to the water, while I stood at the windless
and watched both ends. This went on for one week. When I washed out my dirt, paid off my help
and other expenses, I had two dollars and a half for myself.

About this time I was feeling a little blue and I gave directions for each man in the drifts
to start drifts to the left at the end of each drift. This was done, and we went on for another
week as before, and this time I came out about one hundred dollars ahead. About this time a
couple of miners came along and offered me thirteen hundred dollars for my claim, and I sold
it, took the dust and went to Sacramento and sent it to my father in Vermont. That paid up
for all the money that I had borrowed, and made things quite easy at home.

Now, I am mining again with cradle, pick, shovel and pan in gulches, on the flats, in the river
and on the banks, with miner's luck, up and down, most of the time down. However, "pluck" was
always the watchword with me. I floated some of the time in water, some of the time in the
air, some of the time on dry land, it did not make much difference with me at that time where
I was. I was at home wherever night overtook me. But finally I got tired of that and began
to look about and think of home and "the girl I left behind me."

Home Again. Married. Return to California.

In the spring of '52 I left San Francisco on the steamer "Independence" via the "Nicaragua
route" for New York, arrived there in course of a month, and took train for Boston, where I
found my father from Vermont with a carload of horses. This was clover for me. We remained
there a week or ten days, then left for home. The "girl I left behind" was a Vermont lady but
was visiting a sister in Cincinnati, Ohio. In the spring of 1853 I went on to Ohio to see the
"girl I left behind me," and married the "girl I had left behind me." We then went to Vermont,
where we remained until the year of 1854. In the summer of this year I had the second attack
of the "California fever." I called in Dr. Hichman and he diagnosed my case, and pronounced
it fatal, and said there was no medicine known to science that would help me, that I must go,
so I took the "girl I left behind me" and started for San Francisco.

Vigilance Committee of 1865.

On my return to San Francisco it did not take me long to discover that the city was wide open
to all sorts of crime from murder, to petty theft. In a very short time I became interested
in the Pacific Iron Works, and paid very little attention to what else was going on around
me until the spring of '56. Here was a poise of the scales, corruption and murder on one side,
with honesty and good government on the other. Which shall be the balance of power, the first
or the last?

On May 14th, 1856, James King, editor of the "Evening Bulletin," was shot by Jas. P. Casey
on the corner of Washington and Montgomery streets. He lingered along for a few days and died.
This was too much for the people and proved the entering wedge for a second vigilance committee.
During the first 36 hours after the shooting there were 2,600 names enrolled on the committee's
books. Of that number, I am proud to say, I was the 96th member, and the membership increased
until it amounted to over 7,000.

Shooting of Gen. Richardson.

I will first relate a crime that had happened the November previous (November 17, 1855), in
which Charles Cora had shot and killed General William H. Richardson, United States Marshal
for the Northern District of California. These men had a quarrel on the evening of November
17th, 1855, between 6 and 7 o'clock, which resulted in the death of General Richardson by being
shot dead on the spot in front of Fox & O'Connor's store on Clay street, between Montgomery
and Leidesdorff streets, by Cora. Shortly after this Cora was arrested and placed in custody
of the City Marshal. There was talk of lynching, but no resort was had to violence. Mr. Samuel
Brannan delivered an exciting speech, and resolutions were declared to have the law enforced
in this trial. General Richardson was a brave and honorable man, and beloved by all. He was
about 33 years of age, a native of Washington, D. C., and married. Cora was confined in the
County jail. We will now leave this case in the mind of the reader and take it up later on.

Shooting of James King, of William.

On May 14th, 1856, the city was thrown into a great excitement by an attempt to assassinate
James King, of William, editor of the "Evening Bulletin," by James P. Casey, editor of the
"Sunday Times." Both Casey and King indulged in editorials of a nature that caused much personal
enmity, and in one of the issues of the "Bulletin" King reproduced articles from the New York
papers showing Casey up as having once been sentenced to Sing Sing. Casey took offense at the
articles, and about 5 o'clock in the afternoon, at the corner of Montgomery and Washington
streets, intercepted King who was on his way home, drew a revolver, saying, "Draw and defend
yourself," and shot him through the left breast near the armpit. Mr. King exclaimed, "I am
shot," and reeling, was caught up and carried to the Pacific Express office on the corner Casey
was quickly locked up in the station house[1].

Immediately following the shooting large crowds filled the streets in the neighborhood anxious
to hang to the nearest lamp post the perpetrator of the crime. Casey was immediately removed
to the County jail for safer keeping. Here crowds again congregated, demanding the turning
over to them of Casey and threatening violence if denied. Mayor Van Ness and others addressed
them in efforts to let the law take its course but the crowd which had been swelled into a
seething mass, remonstrated, citing the shooting of Marshal Richardson, and demanding Cora,
his assassin, that he, too, might be hanged.

Military aid was called to the defense of the jail and its prisoners and after a while the
multitude dispersed, leaving all quiet.

Casey and Cora Turned Over to Vigilance Committee.

