All this vegetation, to be sure, was stunted.  The madrona was here no bigger than the manzanita;
the bay was but a stripling shrub; the very pines, with four or five exceptions in all our
upper canyon, were not so tall as myself, or but a little taller, and the most of them came
lower than my waist.  For a prosperous forest tree, we must look below, where the glen was
crowded with green spires.  But for flowers and ravishing perfume, we had none to envy:  our
heap of road-metal was thick with bloom, like a hawthorn in the front of June; our red, baking
angle in the mountain, a laboratory of poignant scents.  It was an endless wonder to my mind,
as I dreamed about the platform, following the progress of the shadows, where the madrona with
its leaves, the azalea and calcanthus with their blossoms, could find moisture to support such
thick, wet, waxy growths, or the bay tree collect the ingredients of its perfume.  But there
they all grew together, healthy, happy, and happy-making, as though rooted in a fathom of black
soil.

Nor was it only vegetable life that prospered.  We had, indeed, few birds, and none that had
much of a voice or anything worthy to be called a song.  My morning comrade had a thin chirp,
unmusical and monotonous, but friendly and pleasant to hear.  He had but one rival:  a fellow
with an ostentatious cry of near an octave descending, not one note of which properly followed
another.  This is the only bird I ever knew with a wrong ear; but there was something enthralling
about his performance.  You listened and listened, thinking each time he must surely get it
right; but no, it was always wrong, and always wrong the same way.  Yet he seemed proud of
his song, delivered it with execution and a manner of his own, and was charming to his mate.
A very incorrect, incessant human whistler had thus a chance of knowing how his own music pleased
the world.  Two great birds--eagles, we thought--dwelt at the top of the canyon, among the
crags that were printed on the sky.  Now and again, but very rarely, they wheeled high over
our heads in silence, or with a distant, dying scream; and then, with a fresh impulse, winged
fleetly forward, dipped over a hilltop, and were gone.  They seemed solemn and ancient things,
sailing the blue air:  perhaps co-oeval with the mountain where they haunted, perhaps emigrants
from Rome, where the glad legions may have shouted to behold them on the morn of battle.

But if birds were rare, the place abounded with rattlesnakes--the rattlesnake's nest, it might
have been named.  Wherever we brushed among the bushes, our passage woke their angry buzz.
One dwelt habitually in the wood-pile, and sometimes, when we came for firewood, thrust up
his small head between two logs, and hissed at the intrusion.  The rattle has a legendary credit;
it is said to be awe-inspiring, and, once heard, to stamp itself for ever in the memory.  But
the sound is not at all alarming; the hum of many insects, and the buzz of the wasp convince
the ear of danger quite as readily.  As a matter of fact, we lived for weeks in Silverado,
coming and going, with rattles sprung on every side, and it never occurred to us to be afraid.
I used to take sun-baths and do calisthenics in a certain pleasant nook among azalea and calcanthus,
the rattles whizzing on every side like spinning- wheels, and the combined hiss or buzz rising
louder and angrier at any sudden movement; but I was never in the least impressed, nor ever
attacked.  It was only towards the end of our stay, that a man down at Calistoga, who was expatiating
on the terrifying nature of the sound, gave me at last a very good imitation; and it burst
on me at once that we dwelt in the very metropolis of deadly snakes, and that the rattle was
simply the commonest noise in Silverado. Immediately on our return, we attacked the Hansons
on the subject. They had formerly assured us that our canyon was favoured, like Ireland, with
an entire immunity from poisonous reptiles; but, with the perfect inconsequence of the natural
man, they were no sooner found out than they went off at score in the contrary direction, and
we were told that in no part of the world did rattlesnakes attain to such a monstrous bigness
as among the warm, flower-dotted rocks of Silverado.  This is a contribution rather to the
natural history of the Hansons, than to that of snakes.

One person, however, better served by his instinct, had known the rattle from the first; and
that was Chuchu, the dog.  No rational creature has ever led an existence more poisoned by
terror than that dog's at Silverado.  Every whiz of the rattle made him bound. His eyes rolled;
he trembled; he would be often wet with sweat. One of our great mysteries was his terror of
the mountain.  A little away above our nook, the azaleas and almost all the vegetation ceased.
Dwarf pines not big enough to be Christmas trees, grew thinly among loose stone and gravel
scaurs.  Here and there a big boulder sat quiescent on a knoll, having paused there till the
next rain in his long slide down the mountain.  There was here no ambuscade for the snakes,
you could see clearly where you trod; and yet the higher I went, the more abject and appealing
became Chuchu's terror.  He was an excellent master of that composite language in which dogs
communicate with men, and he would assure me, on his honour, that there was some peril on the
mountain; appeal to me, by all that I held holy, to turn back; and at length, finding all was
in vain, and that I still persisted, ignorantly foolhardy, he would suddenly whip round and
make a bee- line down the slope for Silverado, the gravel showering after him. What was he
afraid of?  There were admittedly brown bears and California lions on the mountain; and a grizzly
visited Rufe's poultry yard not long before, to the unspeakable alarm of Caliban, who dashed
out to chastise the intruder, and found himself, by moonlight, face to face with such a tartar.
Something at least there must have been:  some hairy, dangerous brute lodged permanently among
the rocks a little to the north-west of Silverado, spending his summer thereabout, with wife
and family.

And there was, or there had been, another animal.  Once, under the broad daylight, on that
open stony hillside, where the baby pines were growing, scarcely tall enough to be a badge
for a MacGregor's bonnet, I came suddenly upon his innocent body, lying mummified by the dry
air and sun:  a pigmy kangaroo.  I am ingloriously ignorant of these subjects; had never heard
of such a beast; thought myself face to face with some incomparable sport of nature; and began
to cherish hopes of immortality in science.  Rarely have I been conscious of a stranger thrill
than when I raised that singular creature from the stones, dry as a board, his innocent heart
long quiet, and all warm with sunshine.  His long hind legs were stiff, his tiny forepaws clutched
upon his breast, as if to leap; his poor life cut short upon that mountain by some unknown
accident.  But the kangaroo rat, it proved, was no such unknown animal; and my discovery was
nothing.

