At that time England was beginning to initiate a new method for what it called the proper government
of Ireland. Hitherto it had tried the plan of setting one party in the country against another;
but now a new party was called into being, known as the "English party." This party had nothing
to do with the Irish national spirit, and any man, no matter how capable, who held by such
a national spirit, was to be set aside. There was to be no Irish party or parties as such--there
was to be only the English party governing Ireland in the interests of England. It was the
beginning of a government which led to the appointment of such a man as Primate Boulter, who
simply ruled Ireland behind the Lord Lieutenant (who was but a figurehead) for and on behalf
of the King of England's advisers. Irish institutions, Irish ideas, Irish traditions, the Irish
Church, Irish schools, Irish language and literature, Irish trade, manufactures, commerce,
agriculture--all were to be subordinated to England's needs and England's demands. At any cost
almost, these were to be made subservient to the interests of England. So well was this plan
carried out, that Ireland found itself being governed by a small English clique and its Houses
of Parliament a mere tool in the clique's hands. The Parliament no longer represented the national
will, since it did really nothing but ratify what the English party asked for, or what the
King's ministers in England instructed should be made law.

Irish manufactures were ruined by legislation; the commerce of Ireland was destroyed by the
same means; her schools became practically penitentiaries to the Catholic children, who were
compelled to receive a Protestant instruction; her agriculture was degraded to the degree that
cattle could not be exported nor the wool sold or shipped from her own ports to other countries;
her towns swarmed with beggars and thieves, forced there by the desolation which prevailed
in the country districts, where people starved by the wayside, and where those who lived barely
kept body and soul together to pay the rents of the absentee landlords.

Swift has himself, in the pamphlets printed in the present volume, given a fairly accurate
and no exaggerated account of the miserable condition of his country at this time; and his
writings are amply corroborated by other men who might be considered less passionate and more
temperate.

The people had become degraded through the evil influence of a contemptuous and spendthrift
landlord class, who considered the tenant in no other light than as a rent-paying creature.
As Roman Catholics they found themselves the social inferiors of the ruling Protestant class--the
laws had placed them in that invidious position. They were practically without any defence.
They were ignorant, poor, and half-starved. Thriftless, like their landlords, they ate up in
the autumn what harvests they gathered, and begged for their winter's support. Adultery and
incest were common and bred a body of lawless creatures, who herded together like wild beasts
and became dangerous pests.

Swift knew all this. He had time, between the years 1714 and 1720, to find it out, even if
he had not known of it before. But the condition was getting worse, and his heart filled, as
he told Pope in 1728, with a "perfect rage and resentment" at "the mortifying sight of slavery,
folly, and baseness about me, among which I am forced to live."

He commenced what might be called a campaign of attack in 1720, with the publication of his
tract entitled, "A Modest Proposal for the Universal Use of Irish Manufactures." As has been
pointed out in the notes prefixed to the pamphlets in the present volume, England had, apparently,
gone to work systematically to ruin Irish manufactures. They seemed to threaten ruin to English
industries; at least so the people in England thought. The pernicious legislation began in
the reign of Charles II. and continued in that of William III. The Irish manufacturer was not
permitted to export his products and found a precarious livelihood in a contraband trade. Swift's
"Proposal" is one of retaliation. Since England will not allow Ireland to send out her goods,
let the people of Ireland use them, and let them join together and determine to use nothing
from England. Everything that came from England should be burned, except the people and the
coal. If England had the right to prevent the exportation of the goods made in Ireland, she
had not the right to prevent the people of Ireland from choosing what they should wear. The
temper of the pamphlet was mild in the extreme; but the governing officials saw in it dangerous
symptoms. The pamphlet was stigmatized as libellous and seditious, and the writer as attempting
to disunite the two nations. The printer was brought to trial, and the pamphlet obtained a
tremendous circulation. Although the jury acquitted the printer, Chief Justice Whitshed, who
had, as Swift puts it, "so quick an understanding, that he resolved, if possible, to outdo
his orders," sent the jury back nine times to reconsider their verdict. He even declared solemnly
that the author's design was to bring in the Pretender. This cry of bringing in the Pretender
was raised on any and every occasion, and has been well ridiculed by Swift in his "Examination
of Certain Abuses and Corruptions in the City of Dublin." The end of Whitshed's persecution
could have been foretold--it fizzled out in a nolle prosequi.

Following on this interesting commencement came the lengthened agitation against Wood's Halfpence
to which we owe the remarkable series of writings known now as the "Drapier's Letters." These
are fully discussed in the volume preceding this. But Swift found other channels in which to
continue rousing the spirit of the people, and refreshing it to further effort. The mania for
speculation which Law's schemes had given birth to, reached poor Ireland also. People thought
there might be found a scheme on similar lines by which Ireland might move to prosperity. A
Bank project was initiated for the purpose of assisting small tradesmen. But a scheme that
in itself would have been excellent in a prosperous society, could only end in failure in such
a community as peopled Ireland. Swift felt this and opposed the plan in his satirical tract,
"The Swearer's Bank." The tract sufficed, for no more was heard of the National Bank after
the House of Commons rejected it.

The thieves and "roughs" who infested Dublin came in next for Swift's attention. In characteristic
fashion he seized the occasion of the arrest and execution of one of their leaders to publish
a pretended "Last Speech and Dying Confession," in which he threatened exposure and arrest
to the remainder of the gang if they did not make themselves scarce. The threat had its effect,
and the city found itself considerably safer as a consequence.

How Swift pounded out his "rage and resentment" against English misgovernment, may be further
read in the "Story of the Injured Lady," and in the "Answer" to that story. The Injured Lady
is Ireland, who tells her lover, England, of her attractions, and upbraids him on his conduct
towards her. In the "Answer" Swift tells the Lady what she ought to do, and hardly minces matters.
Let her show the right spirit, he says to her, and she will find there are many gentlemen who
will support her and champion her cause.

Then came the plain, pathetic, and truthful recital of the "Short View of the State of Ireland"--a
pamphlet of but a few pages and yet terribly effective. As an historical document it takes
rank with the experiences of the clergymen, Skelton and Jackson, as well as the more dispassionate
writings of contemporary historians. It is frequently cited by Lecky in his "History of Ireland."
Nothing comparable to this piece of writing is to be found in any literature; while the mere
fact that it came into being must stand as one of the deadliest indictments against England's
misrule. Governments and rulers have been satirized time and again, but no similar condition
of things has existed with a Swift living at the time, to observe and comment on them. The
tract itself must be read with a knowledge of the Irish conditions then prevailing; its temper
is so calm and restrained that a reader unacquainted with the conditions might be misled and
think that the author of "Gulliver's Travels" was indulging himself in one of his grim jokes.
That it was not a joke its readers at the time well knew, and many of them also knew how great
was the indignation which raged in Swift's heart to stir him to so unprecedented an expression
of contempt. He had, as he himself said, raged and stormed only to find himself stupefied.
In the "Modest Proposal" he changed his tune and

      ... with raillery to nettle,
  Set your thoughts upon their mettle.

Swift has been censured for the cold-blooded cynicism of this piece of writing, but these censurers
have entirely misunderstood both his motive and his meaning. We wonder how any one could take
seriously a proposal for breeding children for food purposes, and our wonder grows in reflecting
on an inability to see through the thin veil of satire which barely hid an impeachment of a
ruling nation by the mere statement of the proposal itself. That a Frenchman should so misunderstand
it (as a Frenchman did) may not surprise us, but that any Englishman should so take it argues
an utter absence of humour and a total ignorance of Irish conditions at the time the tract
was written. But history has justified Swift, and it is to his writings, rather than to the
many works written by more commonplace observers, that we now turn for the true story of Ireland's
wrongs, and the real sources of her continued attitude of hostility towards England's government
of her.

It has been well noted by one of Swift's biographers, that for a thousand readers which the
"Modest Proposal" has found, there is perhaps only one who is acquainted with Swift's "Answer
to the Craftsman." It may be that the title is misleading or uninviting; but there is no question
that this tract may well stand by the side of the "Modest Proposal," both for force of argument
and pungency of satire. In its way and within the limits of its more restricted argument it
is one of the ablest pieces of writing Swift has given us on behalf of Irish liberty.

The title of Irish patriot which Swift obtained was not sought for by him. It was given him
mainly for the part he played, and for the success he achieved in the Wood's patent agitation.
He was acclaimed the champion of the people, because he had stopped the foolish manoeuvres
of the Walpole Administration. So to label him, however, would be to do him an injustice. In
truth, he would have championed the cause of liberty and justice in any country in which he
lived, had he found liberty and justice wanting there. The matter of the copper coinage patent
was but a peg for him to hang arguments which applied almost everywhere. It was not to the
particular arguments but to the spirit which gave them life that we must look for the true
value of Swift's work. And that spirit--honest, brave, strong for the right--is even more abundantly
displayed in the writings we have just considered. They witness to his championship of liberty
and justice, to his impeachment of selfish office-holders and a short-sighted policy. They
gave him his position as the chief among the citizens of Dublin to whom he spoke as counsel
and adviser. They proclaim him as the friend of the common people, to whom he was more than
the Dean of St. Patrick's. He may have begun his work impelled by a hatred for Whiggish principles;
but he undoubtedly accomplished it in the spirit of a broad-minded and far-seeing statesman.
The pressing needs of Ireland were too urgent and crying for him to permit his personal dislike
of the Irish natives to divert him from his humanitarian efforts. If he hated the beggar he
was ready with his charity. The times in which he lived were not times in which, as he told
the freemen of Dublin, "to expect such an exalted degree of virtue from mortal men." He was
speaking to them of the impossibility of office-holders being independent of the government
under which they held their offices. "Blazing stars," he said, "are much more frequently seen
than such heroical virtues." As the Irish people were governed by such men he advised them
strongly to choose a parliamentary representative from among themselves. He insisted on the
value of their collected voice, their unanimity of effort, a consciousness of their understanding
of what they wished to bring about. "Be independent" is the text of all his writings to the
people of Ireland. It is idle to appeal to England's clemency or England's justice. It is vain
to evolve social schemes and Utopian dreams. The remedy lay in their own hands, if the people
only realized it.

"Violent zeal for truth," Swift noted in one of his "Thoughts on Religion," "has a hundred
to one odds to be either petulancy, ambition, or pride." Examining Swift's writings on behalf
of Ireland by the criterion provided in this statement, we must acquit him entirely of misusing
any of these qualities. If he were bitter or scornful, he was certainly not petulant. No one
has written with more justice or coolness; the temper is hot but it is the heat of a conscious
and collected indignation. If he wrote or spoke in a manner somewhat overbearing, it was not
because of ambition, since he was now long past his youth and his mind had become settled in
a fairly complacent acceptance of his position. If he had pride, and he undoubtedly had, it
was nowhere obtruded for personal aggrandizement, but rather by way of emphasizing the dignity
of citizenship, and the value of self-respect. Assuredly, in these Irish tracts, Swift was
no violent zealot for truth. Indeed, it is a high compliment to pay him, to say that we wonder
he restrained himself as he did.

