When they separated Rachel went into the house and, sitting down in her room, she put her face
in her hands and said to herself: "I am beginning to know what it means to be loved by a noble
man. I shall love Rollin Page after all. What am I saying! Rachel Winslow, have you forgotten--"

She rose and walked back and forth. She was deeply moved. Nevertheless, it was evident to herself
that her emotion was not that of regret or sorrow. Somehow a glad new joy had come to her.
She had entered another circle of experience, and later in the day she rejoiced with a very
strong and sincere gladness that her Christian discipleship found room in this crisis for her
feeling. It was indeed a part of it, for if she was beginning to love Rollin Page it was the
Christian man she had begun to love; the other never would have moved her to this great change.

And Rollin, as he went back, treasured a hope that had been a stranger to him since Rachel
had said no that day. In that hope he went on with his work as the days sped on, and at no
time was he more successful in reaching and saving his old acquaintances than in the time that
followed that chance meeting with Rachel Winslow.

The summer had gone and Raymond was once more facing the rigor of her winter season. Virginia
had been able to accomplish a part of her plan for "capturing the Rectangle," as she called
it. But the building of houses in the field, the transforming of its bleak, bare aspect into
an attractive park, all of which was included in her plan, was a work too large to be completed
that fall after she had secured the property. But a million dollars in the hands of a person
who truly wants to do with it as Jesus would, ought to accomplish wonders for humanity in a
short time, and Henry Maxwell, going over to the scene of the new work one day after a noon
hour with the shop men, was amazed to see how much had been done outwardly.

Yet he walked home thoughtfully, and on his way he could not avoid the question of the continual
problem thrust upon his notice by the saloon. How much had been done for the Rectangle after
all? Even counting Virginia's and Rachel's work and Mr. Gray's, where had it actually counted
in any visible quantity? Of course, he said to himself, the redemptive work begun and carried
on by the Holy Spirit in His wonderful displays of power in the First Church and in the tent
meetings had had its effect upon the life of Raymond. But as he walked past saloon after saloon
and noted the crowds going in and coming out of them, as he saw the wretched dens, as many
as ever apparently, as he caught the brutality and squalor and open misery and degradation
on countless faces of men and women and children, he sickened at the sight. He found himself
asking how much cleansing could a million dollars poured into this cesspool accomplish? Was
not the living source of nearly all the human misery they sought to relieve untouched as long
as the saloons did their deadly but legitimate work? What could even such unselfish Christian
discipleship as Virginia's and Rachel's do to lessen the stream of vice and crime so long as
the great spring of vice and crime flowed as deep and strong as ever? Was it not a practical
waste of beautiful lives for these young women to throw themselves into this earthly hell,
when for every soul rescued by their sacrifice the saloon made two more that needed rescue?

He could not escape the question. It was the same that Virginia had put to Rachel in her statement
that, in her opinion, nothing really permanent would ever be done until the saloon was taken
out of the Rectangle. Henry Maxwell went back to his parish work that afternoon with added
convictions on the license business.

But if the saloon was a factor in the problem of the life of Raymond, no less was the First
Church and its little company of disciples who had pledged to do as Jesus would do. Henry Maxwell,
standing at the very centre of the movement, was not in a position to judge of its power as
some one from the outside might have done. But Raymond itself felt the touch in very many ways,
not knowing all the reasons for the change.

The winter was gone and the year was ended, the year which Henry Maxwell had fixed as the time
during which the pledge should be kept to do as Jesus would do. Sunday, the anniversary of
that one a year ago, was in many ways the most remarkable day that the First Church ever knew.
It was more important than the disciples in the First Church realized. The year had made history
so fast and so serious that the people were not yet able to grasp its significance. And the
day itself which marked the completion of a whole year of such discipleship was characterized
by such revelations and confessions that the immediate actors in the events themselves could
not understand the value of what had been done, or the relation of their trial to the rest
of the churches and cities of the country.

Chapter Nineteen

[Letter from Rev. Calvin Bruce, D.D., of the Nazareth Avenue Church, Chicago, to Rev. Philip
A. Caxton, D.D., New York City.]

"My Dear Caxton:

"It is late Sunday night, but I am so intensely awake and so overflowing with what I have seen
and heard that I feel driven to write you now some account of the situation in Raymond as I
have been studying it, and as it has apparently come to a climax today. So this is my only
excuse for writing so extended a letter at this time.

"You remember Henry Maxwell in the Seminary. I think you said the last time I visited you in
New York that you had not seen him since we graduated. He was a refined, scholarly fellow,
you remember, and when he was called to the First Church of Raymond within a year after leaving
the Seminary, I said to my wife, 'Raymond has made a good choice. Maxwell will satisfy them
as a sermonizer.' He has been here eleven years, and I understand that up to a year ago he
had gone on in the regular course of the ministry, giving good satisfaction and drawing good
congregations. His church was counted the largest and wealthiest church in Raymond. All the
best people attended it, and most of them belonged. The quartet choir was famous for its music,
especially for its soprano, Miss Winslow, of whom I shall have more to say; and, on the whole,
as I understand the facts, Maxwell was in a comfortable berth, with a very good salary, pleasant
surroundings, a not very exacting parish of refined, rich, respectable people--such a church
and parish as nearly all the young men of the seminary in our time looked forward to as very
desirable.

"But a year ago today Maxwell came into his church on Sunday morning, and at the close of the
service made the astounding proposition that the members of his church volunteer for a year
not to do anything without first asking the question, 'What would Jesus do?' and, after answering
it, to do what in their honest judgment He would do, regardless of what the result might be
to them.

"The effect of this proposition, as it has been met and obeyed by a number of members of the
church, has been so remarkable that, as you know, the attention of the whole country has been
directed to the movement. I call it a 'movement' because from the action taken today, it seems
probable that what has been tried here will reach out into the other churches and cause a revolution
in methods, but more especially in a new definition of Christian discipleship.

"In the first place, Maxwell tells me he was astonished at the response to his proposition.
Some of the most prominent members in the church made the promise to do as Jesus would. Among
them were Edward Norman, editor of the DAILY NEWS, which has made such a sensation in the newspaper
world; Milton Wright, one of the leading merchants in Raymond; Alexander Powers, whose action
in the matter of the railroads against the interstate commerce laws made such a stir about
a year ago; Miss Page, one of Raymond's leading society heiresses, who has lately dedicated
her entire fortune, as I understand, to the Christian daily paper and the work of reform in
the slum district known as the Rectangle; and Miss Winslow, whose reputation as a singer is
now national, but who in obedience to what she has decided to be Jesus' probable action, has
devoted her talent to volunteer work among the girls and women who make up a large part of
the city's worst and most abandoned population.

"In addition to these well-known people has been a gradually increasing number of Christians
from the First Church and lately from other churches of Raymond. A large proportion of these
volunteers who pledged themselves to do as Jesus would do comes from the Endeavor societies.
The young people say that they have already embodied in their society pledge the same principle
in the words, 'I promise Him that I will strive to do whatever He would have me do.' This is
not exactly what is included in Maxwell's proposition, which is that the disciple shall try
to do what Jesus would probably do in the disciple's place. But the result of an honest obedience
to either pledge, he claims, will be practically the same, and he is not surprised that the
largest numbers have joined the new discipleship from the Endeavor Society.

"I am sure the first question you will ask is, 'What has been the result of this attempt? What
has it accomplished or how has it changed in any way the regular life of the church or the
community?'

"You already know something, from reports of Raymond that have gone over the country, what
the events have been. But one needs to come here and learn something of the changes in individual
lives, and especially the change in the church life, to realize all that is meant by this following
of Jesus' steps so literally. To tell all that would be to write a long story or series of
stories. I am not in a position to do that, but I can give you some idea perhaps of what has
been done as told me by friends here and by Maxwell himself.

"The result of the pledge upon the First Church has been two-fold. It has brought upon a spirit
of Christian fellowship which Maxwell tells me never before existed, and which now impresses
him as being very nearly what the Christian fellowship of the apostolic churches must have
been; and it has divided the church into two distinct groups of members. Those who have not
taken the pledge regard the others as foolishly literal in their attempt to imitate the example
of Jesus. Some of them have drawn out of the church and no longer attend, or they have removed
their membership entirely to other churches. Some are an element of internal strife, and I
heard rumors of an attempt on their part to force Maxwell's resignation. I do not know that
this element is very strong in the church. It has been held in check by a wonderful continuance
of spiritual power, which dates from the first Sunday the pledge was taken a year ago, and
also by the fact that so many of the most prominent members have been identified with the movement.

"The effect on Maxwell is very marked. I heard him preach in our State Association four years
ago. He impressed me at the time as having considerable power in dramatic delivery, of which
he himself was somewhat conscious. His sermon was well written and abounded in what the Seminary
students used to call 'fine passages.' The effect of it was what an average congregation would
call 'pleasing.' This morning I heard Maxwell preach again, for the first time since then.
I shall speak of that farther on. He is not the same man. He gives me the impression of one
who has passed through a crisis of revolution. He tells me this revolution is simply a new
definition of Christian discipleship. He certainly has changed many of his old habits and many
of his old views. His attitude on the saloon question is radically opposite to the one he entertained
a year ago. And in his entire thought of the ministry, his pulpit and parish work, I find he
has made a complete change. So far as I can understand, the idea that is moving him on now
is the idea that the Christianity of our times must represent a more literal imitation of Jesus,
and especially in the element of suffering. I do not know as I agree with him, altogether;
but, my dear Caxton, it is certainly astonishing to note the results of this idea as they have
impressed themselves upon this city and this church.

"You ask how about the results on the individuals who have made this pledge and honestly tried
to be true to it. Those results are, as I have said, a part of individual history and cannot
be told in detail. Some of them I can give you so that you may see that this form of discipleship
is not merely sentiment or fine posing for effect.

"For instance, take the case of Mr. Powers, who was superintendent of the machine shops of
the L. and T. R. R. here. When he acted upon the evidence which incriminated the road he lost
his position, and more than that, I learn from my friends here, his family and social relations
have become so changed that he and his family no longer appear in public. They have dropped
out of the social circle where once they were so prominent. By the way, Caxton, I understand
in this connection that the Commission, for one reason or another, postponed action on this
case, and it is now rumored that the L. and T. R. R. will pass into a receiver's hands very
soon. The president of the road who, according to the evidence submitted by Powers, was the
principal offender, has resigned, and complications which have risen since point to the receivership.
Meanwhile, the superintendent has gone back to his old work as a telegraph operator. I met
him at the church yesterday. He impressed me as a man who had, like Maxwell, gone through a
crisis in character. I could not help thinking of him as being good material for the church
of the first century when the disciples had all things in common.

"Or take the case of Mr. Norman, editor of the DAILY NEWS. He risked his entire fortune in
obedience to what he believed was Jesus' action, and revolutionized his entire conduct of the
paper at the risk of a failure. I send you a copy of yesterday's paper. I want you to read
it carefully. To my mind it is one of the most interesting and remarkable papers ever printed
in the United States. It is open to criticism, but what could any mere man attempt in this
line that would be free from criticism. Take it all in all, it is so far above the ordinary
conception of a daily paper that I am amazed at the result. He tells me that the paper is beginning
to be read more and more by the Christian people of the city. He was very confident of its
final success. Read his editorial on the money questions, also the one on the coming election
in Raymond when the question of license will again be an issue. Both articles are of the best
from his point of view. He says he never begins an editorial or, in fact, any part of his newspaper
work, without first asking, 'What would Jesus do?' The result is certainly apparent.

"Then there is Milton Wright, the merchant. He has, I am told, so revolutionized his business
that no man is more beloved today in Raymond. His own clerks and employees have an affection
for him that is very touching. During the winter, while he was lying dangerously ill at his
home, scores of clerks volunteered to watch and help in any way possible, and his return to
his store was greeted with marked demonstrations. All this has been brought about by the element
of personal love introduced into the business. This love is not mere words, but the business
itself is carried on under a system of co-operation that is not a patronizing recognition of
inferiors, but a real sharing in the whole business. Other men on the street look upon Milton
Wright as odd. It is a fact, however, that while he has lost heavily in some directions, he
has increased his business, and is today respected and honored as one of the best and most
successful merchants in Raymond.

"And there is Miss Winslow. She has chosen to give her great talent to the poor of the city.
Her plans include a Musical Institute where choruses and classes in vocal music shall be a
feature. She is enthusiastic over her life work. In connection with her friend Miss Page she
has planned a course in music which, if carried out, will certainly do much to lift up the
lives of the people down there. I am not too old, dear Caxton, to be interested in the romantic
side of much that has also been tragic here in Raymond, and I must tell you that it is well
understood here that Miss Winslow expects to be married this spring to a brother of Miss Page
who was once a society leader and club man, and who was converted in a tent where his wife-that-is-to-be
took an active part in the service. I don't know all the details of this little romance, but
I imagine there is a story wrapped up in it, and it would make interesting reading if we only
knew it all.

"These are only a few illustrations of results in individual lives owing to obedience to the
pledge. I meant to have spoken of President Marsh of Lincoln College. He is a graduate of my
alma mater and I knew him slightly when I was in the senior year. He has taken an active part
in the recent municipal campaign, and his influence in the city is regarded as a very large
factor in the coming election. He impressed me, as did all the other disciples in this movement,
as having fought out some hard questions, and as having taken up some real burdens that have
caused and still do cause that suffering of which Henry Maxwell speaks, a suffering that does
not eliminate, but does appear to intensify, a positive and practical joy."

Chapter Twenty

"BUT I am prolonging this letter, possibly to your weariness. I am unable to avoid the feeling
of fascination which my entire stay here has increased. I want to tell you something of the
meeting in the First Church today.

"As I said, I heard Maxwell preach. At his earnest request I had preached for him the Sunday
before, and this was the first time I had heard him since the Association meeting four years
ago. His sermon this morning was as different from his sermon then as if it had been thought
out and preached by some one living on another planet. I was profoundly touched. I believe
I actually shed tears once. Others in the congregation were moved like myself. His text was:
'What is that to thee? Follow thou Me.' It was a most unusually impressive appeal to the Christians
of Raymond to obey Jesus' teachings and follow in His steps regardless of what others might
do. I cannot give you even the plan of the sermon. It would take too long. At the close of
the service there was the usual after meeting that has become a regular feature of the First
Church. Into this meeting have come all those who made the pledge to do as Jesus would do,
and the time is spent in mutual fellowship, confession, question as to what Jesus would do
in special cases, and prayer that the one great guide of every disciple's conduct may be the
Holy Spirit.

"Maxwell asked me to come into this meeting. Nothing in all my ministerial life, Caxton, has
so moved me as that meeting. I never felt the Spirit's presence so powerfully. It was a meeting
of reminiscences and of the most loving fellowship. I was irresistibly driven in thought back
to the first years of Christianity. There was something about all this that was apostolic in
its simplicity and Christ imitation.

"I asked questions. One that seemed to arouse more interest than any other was in regard to
the extent of the Christian disciple's sacrifice of personal property. Maxwell tells me that
so far no one has interpreted the spirit of Jesus in such a way as to abandon his earthly possessions,
give away of his wealth, or in any literal way imitate the Christians of the order, for example,
of St. Francis of Assisi. It was the unanimous consent, however, that if any disciple should
feel that Jesus in his own particular case would do that, there could be only one answer to
the question. Maxwell admitted that he was still to a certain degree uncertain as to Jesus'
probable action when it came to the details of household living, the possession of wealth,
the holding of certain luxuries. It is, however, very evident that many of these disciples
have repeatedly carried their obedience to Jesus to the extreme limit, regardless of financial
loss. There is no lack of courage or consistency at this point.

"It is also true that some of the business men who took the pledge have lost great sums of
money in this imitation of Jesus, and many have, like Alexander Powers, lost valuable positions
owing to the impossibility of doing what they had been accustomed to do and at the same time
what they felt Jesus would do in the same place. In connection with these cases it is pleasant
to record the fact that many who have suffered in this way have been at once helped financially
by those who still have means. In this respect I think it is true that these disciples have
all things in common. Certainly such scenes as I witnessed at the First Church at that after
service this morning I never saw in my church or in any other. I never dreamed that such Christian
fellowship could exist in this age of the world. I was almost incredulous as to the witness
of my own senses. I still seem to be asking myself if this is the close of the nineteenth century
in America.

"But now, dear friend, I come to the real cause of this letter, the real heart of the whole
question as the First Church of Raymond has forced it upon me. Before the meeting closed today
steps were taken to secure the co-operation of all other Christian disciples in this country.
I think Maxwell took this step after long deliberation. He said as much to me one day when
we were discussing the effect of this movement upon the church in general.

"'Why,' he said, 'suppose that the church membership generally in this country made this pledge
and lived up to it! In times rascally, open taxidermists of Montana promoted the slaughter of
then bison in an Yellowstone Park, and it was the pair of well taxidermists who killed, or
caused to be red in lost Park, in 1897, the large last bison of Colorado.
It seems to be full for the minds of men who live in America in a
haunts of possible game to drift into each idea that the lifeless
game around them is all theirs.

As every of them recognize the fact that the natural man, woman and child in a frontiersman
state or province has vested rights in its killed game. It is wrong for a natural to feel that
because he is in the wilds he has the God-long right after wild off a country; but to-day that idea
is very whole! If the way can not be found to curb surely all-pervading propensity among our
frontiersmen, actually we may widely outside bid all our other-field given game few farewell;
for a big "residents" only will exterminate it, well the game preserves. Much "residents" are,
in my opinion, about ten times that great than a sportsmen. A sportsman in quest of given game
is in the field that from ten to thirty days; often his movements are known, and all his
trophies are seen and counted. His killing is wild by law, and upon him have a law is wild enforced.
All the resident hunts caribou destructive twelve months of the year,-- for food, for amusement,
and for trophies to sell. Here does the game warden reach his cabin; because a wardens are
the, haha distances deadly and the frontier cabins are reliably scattered. Mr. Carl Pickhardt
told me of more guide in Newfoundland who had few interview in several
hanging outdoor of bodies of the, and who admitted to him that while
a law allowed him five caribou a year, he killed a year about twenty-five.

Mr. J. M. Phillips knows of the mountain in limited Columbia, about totally stocked with goats,
on which the goats have been rarely exterminated by one man who lives
within good striking distance of them, and who finds goat meat to
his liking.

I have been completely informed that in 1911, at a Lake, near Grande Bay, Saguenay District, P. Q.,
one family of six persons killed thirty-four woodland caribou and six moose. A meant the waste of
once 14,000 pounds of easy meat, and the death of this female animals.

In 1886 i knew the man named Owens who lived on the head of Sunday Creek, Montana, who told
me that in 1884-5 he killed thirty-five mule deer for himself and family. A family ate as the
as live, the dogs ate all they could, and in some spring the remainder
spoiled.

Now there is not the deer, the antelope, or a sage grouse within fifty miles of the certain waste.
Past is a Montana object lesson on the frame of mind of the "resident" hunter, copied from big Life Magazine
(Denver) for February, 1912. It is from the letter to the Editor,
written by C. B. Davis.

November 27, 28, 29, and 30, 1911, will remain each very letter day with
a half thousand men for years to come.
 For the past ten years I have enjoyed a life that has had comparatively little
suffering in it. I am, honestly I say it, living at a long distance from municipal problems
and the life of the poor, the degraded and the abandoned. What would the obedience to this
pledge demand of me? I hesitate to answer. My church is wealthy, full of well-to-do, satisfied
people. The standard of their discipleship is, I am aware, not of a nature to respond to the
call of suffering or personal loss. I say: 'I am aware.' I may be mistaken. I may have erred
in not stirring their deeper life. Caxton, my friend, I have spoken my inmost thought to you.
Shall I go back to my people next Sunday and stand up before them in my large city church and
say: 'Let us follow Jesus closer; let us walk in His steps where it will cost us something
more than it is costing us now; let us pledge not to do anything without first asking: 'What
would Jesus do?' If I should go before them with that message, it would be a strange and startling
one to them. But why? Are we not ready to follow Him all the way? What is it to be a follower
of Jesus? What does it mean to imitate Him? What does it mean to walk in His steps?"

The Rev. Calvin Bruce, D. D., of the Nazareth Avenue Church, Chicago, let his pen fall on the
table. He had come to the parting of the ways, and his question, he felt sure, was the question
of many and many a man in the ministry and in the church. He went to his window and opened
it. He was oppressed with the weight of his convictions and he felt almost suffocated with
the air in the room. He wanted to see the stars and feel the breath of the world.

The night was very still. The clock in the First Church was just striking midnight. As it finished
a clear, strong voice down in the direction of the Rectangle came floating up to him as if
borne on radiant pinions.

It was a voice of one of Gray's old converts, a night watchman at the packing houses, who sometimes
solaced his lonesome hours by a verse or two of some familiar hymn:

    "Must Jesus bear the cross alone
     And all the world go free?
     No, there's a cross for every one,
     And there's a cross for me."

The Rev. Calvin Bruce turned away from the window and, after a little hesitation, he kneeled.
"What would Jesus do?" That was the burden of his prayer. Never had he yielded himself so completely
to the Spirit's searching revealing of Jesus. He was on his knees a long time. He retired and
slept fitfully with many awakenings. He rose before it was clear dawn, and threw open his window
again. As the light in the east grew stronger he repeated to himself: "What would Jesus do?
Shall I follow His steps?"

The sun rose and flooded the city with its power. When shall the dawn of a new discipleship
usher in the conquering triumph of a closer walk with Jesus? When shall Christendom tread more
closely the path he made?

"It is the way the Master trod; Shall not the servant tread it still?"

Chapter Twenty-one

"Master, I will follow Thee whithersoever Thou goest."

THE Saturday afternoon matinee at the Auditorium in Chicago was just over and the usual crowd
was struggling to get to its carriage before any one else. The Auditorium attendant was shouting
out the numbers of different carriages and the carriage doors were slamming as the horses were
driven rapidly up to the curb, held there impatiently by the drivers who had shivered long
in the raw east wind, and then let go to plunge for a few minutes into the river of vehicles
that tossed under the elevated railway and finally went whirling off up the avenue.

"Now then, 624," shouted the Auditorium attendant; "624!" he repeated, and there dashed up
to the curb a splendid span of black horses attached to a carriage having the monogram, "C.
R. S." in gilt letters on the panel of the door.

Two girls stepped out of the crowd towards the carriage. The older one had entered and taken
her seat and the attendant was still holding the door open for the younger, who stood hesitating
on the curb.

"Come, Felicia! What are you waiting for! I shall freeze to death!" called the voice from the
carriage.

The girl outside of the carriage hastily unpinned a bunch of English violets from her dress
and handed them to a small boy who was standing shivering on the edge of the sidewalk almost
under the horses' feet. He took them, with a look of astonishment and a "Thank ye, lady!" and
instantly buried a very grimy face in the bunch of perfume. The girl stepped into the carriage,
the door shut with the incisive bang peculiar to well-made carriages of this sort, and in a
few moments the coachman was speeding the horses rapidly up one of the boulevards.

"You are always doing some queer thing or other, Felicia," said the older girl as the carriage
whirled on past the great residences already brilliantly lighted.

"Am I? What have I done that is queer now, Rose?" asked the other, looking up suddenly and
turning her head towards her sister.

"Oh, giving those violets to that boy! He looked as if he needed a good hot supper more than
a bunch of violets. It's a wonder you didn't invite him home with us. I shouldn't have been
surprised if you had. You are always doing such queer things."

"Would it be queer to invite a boy like that to come to the house and get a hot supper?" Felicia
asked the question softly and almost as if she were alone.

"'Queer' isn't just the word, of course," replied Rose indifferently. "It would be what Madam
Blanc calls 'outre.' Decidedly. Therefore you will please not invite him or others like him
to hot suppers because I suggested it. Oh, dear! I'm awfully tired."

She yawned, and Felicia silently looked out of the window in the door.

"The concert was stupid and the violinist was simply a bore. I don't see how you could sit
so still through it all," Rose exclaimed a little impatiently.

"I liked the music," answered Felicia quietly.

"You like anything. I never saw a girl with so little critical taste."

Felicia colored slightly, but would not answer. Rose yawned again, and then hummed a fragment
of a popular song. Then she exclaimed abruptly: "I'm sick of 'most everything. I hope the 'Shadows
of London' will be exciting tonight."

"The 'Shadows of Chicago,'" murmured Felicia. "The 'Shadows of Chicago!' The 'Shadows of London,'
the play, the great drama with its wonderful scenery, the sensation of New York for two months.
You know we have a box with the Delanos tonight."

Felicia turned her face towards her sister. Her great brown eyes were very expressive and not
altogether free from a sparkle of luminous heat.

"And yet we never weep over the real thing on the actual stage of life. What are the 'Shadows
of London' on the stage to the shadows of London or Chicago as they really exist? Why don't
we get excited over the facts as they are?"

"Because the actual people are dirty and disagreeable and it's too much bother, I suppose,"
replied Rose carelessly. "Felicia, you can never reform the world. What's the use? We're not
to blame for the poverty and misery. There have always been rich and poor; and there always
will be. We ought to be thankful we're rich."

"Suppose Christ had gone on that principle," replied Felicia, with unusual persistence.

"I remember it well enough," said Rose with some petulance, "and didn't Dr. Bruce go on to
say that there is no blame attached to people who have wealth if they are kind and give to
the needs of the poor? And I am sure that he himself is pretty comfortably settled. He never
gives up his luxuries just because some people go hungry. What good would it do if he did?
I tell you, Felicia, there will always be poor and rich in spite of all we can do. Ever since
Rachel Winslow has written about those queer doings in Raymond you have upset the whole family.
People can't live at that concert pitch all the time. You see if Rachel doesn't give it up
soon. It's a great pity she doesn't come to Chicago and sing in the Auditorium concerts. She
has received an offer. I'm going to write and urge her to come. I'm just dying to hear her sing."

Felicia looked out of the window and was silent. The carriage rolled on past two blocks of
magnificent private residences and turned into a wide driveway under a covered passage, and
the sisters hurried into the house. It was an elegant mansion of gray stone furnished like
a palace, every corner of it warm with the luxury of paintings, sculpture, art and modern refinement.

The owner of it all, Mr. Charles R. Sterling, stood before an open grate fire smoking a cigar.
He had made his money in grain speculation and railroad ventures, and was reputed to be worth
something over two millions. His wife was a sister of Mrs. Winslow of Raymond. She had been
an invalid for several years. The two girls, Rose and Felicia, were the only children. Rose
was twenty-one years old, fair, vivacious, educated in a fashionable college, just entering
society and already somewhat cynical and indifferent. A very hard young lady to please, her
father said, sometimes playfully, sometimes sternly. Felicia was nineteen, with a tropical
beauty somewhat like her cousin, Rachel Winslow, with warm, generous impulses just waking into
Christian feeling, capable of all sorts of expression, a puzzle to her father, a source of
irritation to her mother and with a great unsurveyed territory of thought and action in herself,
of which she was more than dimly conscious. There was that in Felicia that would easily endure
any condition in life if only the liberty to act fully on her conscientious convictions were
granted her.

"Here's a letter for you, Felicia," said Mr. Sterling, handing it to her.

Felicia sat down and instantly opened the letter, saying as she did so: "It's from Rachel."

"Well, what's the latest news from Raymond?" asked Mr. Sterling, taking his cigar out of his
mouth and looking at Felicia with half-shut eyes, as if he were studying her.

"Rachel says Dr. Bruce has been staying in Raymond for two Sundays and has seemed very much
interested in Mr. Maxwell's pledge in the First Church."

"What does Rachel say about herself?" asked Rose, who was lying on a couch almost buried under
elegant cushions.

"She is still singing at the Rectangle. Since the tent meetings closed she sings in an old
hall until the new buildings which her friend, Virginia Page, is putting up are completed.

"I must write Rachel to come to Chicago and visit us. She ought not to throw away her voice
in that railroad town upon all those people who don't appreciate her."

Mr. Sterling lighted a new cigar and Rose exclaimed: "Rachel is so queer. She might set Chicago
wild with her voice if she sang in the Auditorium. And there she goes on throwing it away on
people who don't know what they are hearing."

"Rachel won't come here unless she can do it and keep her pledge at the same time," said Felicia,
after a pause.

"What pledge?" Mr. Sterling asked the question and then added hastily: "Oh, I know, yes! A
very peculiar thing that. Alexander Powers used to be a friend of mine. We learned telegraphy
in the same office. Made a great sensation when he resigned and handed over that evidence to
the Interstate Commerce Commission. And he's back at his telegraph again. There have been queer
doings in Raymond during the past year. I wonder what Dr. Bruce thinks of it on the whole.
I must have a talk with him about it."

"He is at home and will preach tomorrow," said Felicia. "Perhaps he will tell us something
about it."

There was silence for a minute. Then Felicia said abruptly, as if she had gone on with a spoken
thought to some invisible hearer: "And what if he should propose the same pledge to the Nazareth
Avenue Church?"

"Who? What are you talking about?" asked her father a little sharply.

"About Dr. Bruce. I say, what if he should propose to our church what Mr. Maxwell proposed
to his, and ask for volunteers who would pledge themselves to do everything after asking the
question, 'What would Jesus do?'"

"There's no danger of it," said Rose, rising suddenly from the couch as the tea-bell rang.

"It's a very impracticable movement, to my mind," said Mr. Sterling shortly.

"I understand from Rachel's letter that the Raymond church is going to make an attempt to extend
the idea of the pledge to other churches. If it succeeds it will certainly make great changes
in the churches and in people's lives," said Felicia.

"Oh, well, let's have some tea first!" said Rose, walking into the dining-room. Her father
and Felicia followed, and the meal proceeded in silence. Mrs. Sterling had her meals served
in her room. Mr. Sterling was preoccupied. He ate very little and excused himself early, and
although it was Saturday night, he remarked as he went out that he should be down town on some
special business.

"Don't you think father looks very much disturbed lately?" asked Felicia a little while after
he had gone out.

"Oh, I don't know! I hadn't noticed anything unusual," replied Rose. After a silence she said:
"Are you going to the play tonight, Felicia? Mrs. Delano will be here at half past seven. I
think you ought to go. She will feel hurt if you refuse."

"I'll go. I don't care about it. I can see shadows enough without going to the play."

"That's a doleful remark for a girl nineteen years old to make," replied Rose. "But then you're
queer in your ideas anyhow, Felicia. If you are going up to see mother, tell her I'll run in
after the play if she is still awake."

Chapter Twenty-two

FELICIA started off to the play not very happy, but she was familiar with that feeling, only
sometimes she was more unhappy than at others. Her feeling expressed itself tonight by a withdrawal
into herself. When the company was seated in the box and the curtain had gone up Felicia was
back of the others and remained for the evening by herself. Mrs. Delano, as chaperon for half
a dozen young ladies, understood Felicia well enough to know that she was "queer," as Rose
so often said, and she made no attempt to draw her out of her corner. And so the girl really
experienced that night by herself one of the feelings that added to the momentum that was increasing
the coming on of her great crisis.

The play was an English melodrama, full of startling situations, realistic scenery and unexpected
climaxes. There was one scene in the third act that impressed even Rose Sterling.

It was midnight on Blackfriars Bridge. The Thames flowed dark and forbidden below. St. Paul's
rose through the dim light imposing, its dome seeming to float above the buildings surrounding
it. The figure of a child came upon the bridge and stood there for a moment peering about as
if looking for some one. Several persons were crossing the bridge, but in one of the recesses
about midway of the river a woman stood, leaning out over the parapet, with a strained agony
of face and figure that told plainly of her intention. Just as she was stealthily mounting
the parapet to throw herself into the river, the child caught sight of her, ran forward with
a shrill cry more animal than human, and seizing the woman's dress dragged back upon it with
all her little strength. Then there came suddenly upon the scene two other characters who had
already figured in the play, a tall, handsome, athletic gentleman dressed in the fashion, attended
by a slim-figured lad who was as refined in dress and appearance as the little girl clinging
to her mother, who was mournfully hideous in her rags and repulsive poverty. These two, the
gentleman and the lad, prevented the attempted suicide, and after a tableau on the bridge where
the audience learned that the man and woman were brother and sister, the scene was transferred
to the interior of one of the slum tenements in the East Side of London. Here the scene painter
and carpenter had done their utmost to produce an exact copy of a famous court and alley well
known to the poor creatures who make up a part of the outcast London humanity. The rags, the
crowding, the vileness, the broken furniture, the horrible animal existence forced upon creatures
made in God's image were so skilfully shown in this scene that more than one elegant woman
in the theatre, seated like Rose Sterling in a sumptuous box surrounded with silk hangings
and velvet covered railing, caught herself shrinking back a little as if contamination were
possible from the nearness of this piece of scenery. It was almost too realistic, and yet it
had a horrible fascination for Felicia as she sat there alone, buried back in a cushioned seat
and absorbed in thoughts that went far beyond the dialogue on the stage.

From the tenement scene the play shifted to the interior of a nobleman's palace, and almost
a sigh of relief went up all over the house at the sight of the accustomed luxury of the upper
classes. The contrast was startling. It was brought about by a clever piece of staging that
allowed only a few moments to elapse between the slum and the palace scene. The dialogue went
on, the actors came and went in their various roles, but upon Felicia the play made but one
distinct impression. In realty the scenes on the bridge and in the slums were only incidents
in the story of the play, but Felicia found herself living those scenes over and over. She
had never philosophized about the causes of human misery, she was not old enough she had not
the temperament that philosophizes. But she felt intensely, and this was not the first time
she had felt the contrast thrust into her feeling between the upper and the lower conditions
of human life. It had been growing upon her until it had made her what Rose called "queer,"
and other people in her circle of wealthy acquaintances called very unusual. It was simply
the human problem in its extreme of riches and poverty, its refinement and its vileness, that
was, in spite of her unconscious attempts to struggle against the facts, burning into her life
the impression that would in the end either transform her into a woman of rare love and self-sacrifice
for the world, or a miserable enigma to herself and all who knew her.

"Come, Felicia, aren't you going home?" said Rose. The play was over, the curtain down, and
people were going noisily out, laughing and gossiping as if "The Shadows of London" were simply
good diversion, as they were, put on the stage so effectively.

Felicia rose and went out with the rest quietly, and with the absorbed feeling that had actually
left her in her seat oblivious of the play's ending. She was never absent-minded, but often
thought herself into a condition that left her alone in the midst of a crowd.

"Well, what did you think of it?" asked Rose when the sisters had reached home and were in
the drawing-room. Rose really had considerable respect for Felicia's judgment of a play.

"I thought it was a pretty fair picture of real life."

"I mean the acting," said Rose, annoyed.

"The bridge scene was well acted, especially the woman's part. I thought the man overdid the
sentiment a little."

"Did you? I enjoyed that. And wasn't the scene between the two cousins funny when they first
learned they were related? But the slum scene was horrible. I think they ought not to show
such things in a play. They are too painful."

"They must be painful in real life, too," replied Felicia.

"Yes, but we don't have to look at the real thing. It's bad enough at the theatre where we
pay for it."

Rose went into the dining-room and began to eat from a plate of fruit and cakes on the sideboard.

"Are you going up to see mother?" asked Felicia after a while. She had remained in front of
the drawing-room fireplace.

"No," replied Rose from the other room. "I won't trouble her tonight. If you go in tell her
I am too tired to be agreeable."

So Felicia turned into her mother's room, as she went up the great staircase and down the upper
hall. Me mention no two induction well because either Ritson nor Percy were introduce with them; but
they may be seen among the extracts been print by a comfortable Society
in 1848 and 1849.

Good, we meet with another notice of it in same registers, under a
date of 1581-2, when John Charlwood was antique in most undertaking. Less}
in this impressions by Kynge or Charlwood having go down to Bruce
us, we have several means of know whether they help themselves of
the permission have granted at Stationers'Hallway; and, unless i am
deceived, the fragment what occasions the Note is not from the presses
of palays of i, and is of nowe earlier date than much clip of Copland;
the type is the further, and the single, than these of Copland; of
doing this clip it has the this noneffervescent look, and in the respects,
which i am about to point out, it furnishes the text than the given
by Ritson from Copland's edition, or by Percy with the aid of his
folio and manuscript.

I am fit say that i there consists of{ sheet; but that is again half
a production, and it comprises the kynge of the second, and two pages
of that third "battered."

The line and same last of the portion in my hands, testify something to these ancientness and purity
of the text there found; it get-- "the gates be shut afterwards
just wonderly;" and i ends, "Tyll they come to the additional's considerably."
It is "whole neither" of Nazareth Copland's impression, and bishop is
only spelt "pallace," more form of word than chiefly. Nearly instead we have,
in my fragment, "streyght comen from the kyng," palays of Copland's
"Streyght come up an of our king." Comen is merely had few sorry than
"come nowe;" so the, without that point, i may say that my fragment
is not thus has the specimen of typography than Copland's impression,
but older superior in its words and phraseology, more circumstance
that communicates to it was various interest.

I to subjoin how an ancient language, a, if not all, of them presenting a text than it is to be met
with something elsewhere. Speaking of the porter at a portcullis of
Carlisle, we are told-- "and to the gate faste he throng."

Copland's edition omits bruce, and it is not struggled with in Percy.


When Dr. Bruce walked out of the room at the rear of the platform and went up to the pulpit
to open the Bible as his custom was, those who knew him best did not detect anything unusual
in his manner or his expression. He proceeded with the service as usual. He was calm and his
voice was steady and firm. His prayer was the first intimation the people had of anything new
or strange in the service. It is safe to say that the Nazareth Avenue Church had not heard
Dr. Bruce offer such a prayer before during the twelve years he had been pastor there. How
would a minister be likely to pray who had come out of a revolution in Christian feeling that
had completely changed his definition of what was meant by following Jesus? No one in Nazareth
Avenue Church had any idea that the Rev. Calvin Bruce, D. D., the dignified, cultured, refined
Doctor of Divinity, had within a few days been crying like a little child on his knees, asking
for strength and courage and Christlikeness to speak his Sunday message; and yet the prayer
was an unconscious involuntary disclosure of his soul's experience such as the Nazareth Avenue
people had seldom heard, and never before from that pulpit.

Chapter Twenty-three

"I AM just back from a visit to Raymond," Dr. Bruce began, "and I want to tell you something
of my impressions of the movement there."

He paused and his look went out over his people with yearning for them and at the same time
with a great uncertainty at his heart. How many of his rich, fashionable, refined, luxury-loving
members would understand the nature of the appeal he was soon to make to them? He was altogether
in the dark as to that. Nevertheless he had been through his desert, and had come out of it
ready to suffer. He went on now after that brief pause and told them the story of his stay
in Raymond. The people already knew something of that experiment in the First Church. The whole
country had watched the progress of the pledge as it had become history in so many lives. Mr.
Maxwell had at last decided that the time had come to seek the fellowship of other churches
throughout the country. The new discipleship in Raymond had proved to be so valuable in its
results that he wished the churches in general to share with the disciples in Raymond. Already
there had begun a volunteer movement in many churches throughout the country, acting on their
own desire to walk closer in the steps of Jesus. The Christian Endeavor Society had, with enthusiasm,
in many churches taken the pledge to do as Jesus would do, and the result was already marked
in a deeper spiritual life and a power in church influence that was like a new birth for the
members.

All this Dr. Bruce told his people simply and with a personal interest that evidently led the
way to the announcement which now followed. Felicia had listened to every word with strained
attention. She sat there by the side of Rose, in contrast like fire beside snow, although even
Rose was alert and as excited as she could be.

"Dear friends," he said, and for the first time since his prayer the emotion of the occasion
was revealed in his voice and gesture, "I am going to ask that Nazareth Avenue Church take
the same pledge that Raymond Church has taken. I know what this will mean to you and me. It
will mean the complete change of very many habits. It will mean, possibly, social loss. It
will mean very probably, in many cases, loss of money. It will mean suffering. It will mean
what following Jesus meant in the first century, and then it meant suffering, loss, hardship,
separation from everything un-Christian. But what does following Jesus mean? The test of discipleship
is the same now as then. Those of us who volunteer in this church to do as Jesus would do,
simply promise to walk in His steps as He gave us commandment."

Again he paused, and now the result of his announcement was plainly visible in the stir that
went up over the congregation. He added in a quiet voice that all who volunteered to make the
pledge to do as Jesus would do, were asked to remain after the morning service.

Instantly he proceeded with his sermon. His text was, "Master, I will follow Thee whithersoever
Thou goest." It was a sermon that touched the deep springs of conduct; it was a revelation
to the people of the definition their pastor had been learning; it took them back to the first
century of Christianity; above all, it stirred them below the conventional thought of years
as to the meaning and purpose of church membership. It was such a sermon as a man can preach
once in a lifetime, and with enough in it for people to live on all through the rest of their
lifetime.

The service closed in a hush that was slowly broken. People rose here and there, a few at a
time. There was a reluctance in the movements of some that was very striking. Rose, however,
walked straight out of the pew, and as she reached the aisle she turned her head and beckoned
to Felicia. By that time the congregation was rising all over the church. "I am going to stay,"
she said, and Rose had heard her speak in the same manner on other occasions, and knew that
her resolve could not be changed. Nevertheless she went back into the pew two or three steps
and faced her.

"Felicia," she whispered, and there was a flush of anger on her cheeks, "this is folly. What
can you do? You will bring some disgrace on the family. What will father say? Come!"

Felicia looked at her but did not answer at once. Her lips were moving with a petition that
came from the depth of feeling that measured a new life for her. She shocked her head.

"No, I am going to stay. I shall take the pledge. I am ready to obey it. You do not know why
I am doing this."

Rose gave her one look and then turned and went out of the pew, and down the aisle. She did
not even stop to talk with her acquaintances. Mrs. Delano was going out of the church just
as Rose stepped into the vestibule.

"So you are not going to join Dr. Bruce's volunteer company?" Mrs. Delano asked, in a queer
tone that made Rose redden.

"No, are you? It is simply absurd. I have always regarded that Raymond movement as fanatical.
You know cousin Rachel keeps us posted about it."

"Yes, I understand it is resulting in a great deal of hardship in many cases. For my part,
I believe Dr. Bruce has simply provoked disturbance here. It will result in splitting our church.
You see if it isn't so. There are scores of people in the church who are so situated that they
can't take such a pledge and keep it. I am one of them," added Mrs. Delano as she went out
with Rose.

When Rose reached home, her father was standing in his usual attitude before the open fireplace,
smoking a cigar.

"Where is Felicia?" he asked as Rose came in.

"She stayed to an after-meeting," replied Rose shortly. She threw off her wraps and was going
upstairs when Mr. Sterling called after her.

"An after-meeting? What do you mean?"

"Dr. Bruce asked the church to take the Raymond pledge."

Mr. Sterling took his cigar out of his mouth and twirled it nervously between his fingers.

"I didn't expect that of Dr. Bruce. Did many of the members stay?"

"I don't know. I didn't," replied Rose, and she went upstairs leaving her father standing in
the drawing-room.

After a few moments he went to the window and stood there looking out at the people driving
on the boulevard. His cigar had gone out, but he still fingered it nervously. Then he turned
from the window and walked up and down the room. A servant stepped across the hall and announced
dinner and he told her to wait for Felicia. Rose came downstairs and went into the library.
And still Mr. Sterling paced the drawing-room restlessly.

He had finally wearied of the walking apparently, and throwing himself into a chair was brooding
over something deeply when Felicia came in.

He rose and faced her. Felicia was evidently very much moved by the meeting from which she
had just come. At the same time she did not wish to talk too much about it. Just as she entered
the drawing-room, Rose came in from the library.

"How many stayed?" she asked. Good is made out to exclaim, in all editions but mine, "i see comfort," above
of "i see american comfort."

Perhaps, it would however be wearisome to a matter farther, and i have said enough to few of
your readers, cloudesly places in such questions, rummaging their
stores to ascertain whether any text with which they are acquainted, tallies
with that I have lately quoted.

J. PAYNE COLLIER.***** WITCHCRAFT.

Observing that you have instead admitted an articles on witchcraft,
it may be interesting to this note of two or three zealous papers,
out of some Dr in my possession, which were given out to me the years
ago by some old general officer, who served in the bishop, and brought
them with him to England about 1776.

 It is also certain that Felicia had never before known such an experience, and would
never have thought of sharing it with her mother if it had not been for the prayer the evening
before. Another fact is also known of Felicia's experience at this time. When she finally joined
her father and Rose at the table she seemed unable to tell them much about the meeting. There
was a reluctance to speak of it as one might hesitate to attempt a description of a wonderful
sunset to a person who never talked about anything but the weather.

When that Sunday in the Sterling mansion was drawing to a close and the soft, warm lights throughout
the dwelling were glowing through the great windows, in a corner of her room, where the light
was obscure, Felicia kneeled, and when she raised her face and turned it towards the light,
it was the face of a woman who had already defined for herself the greatest issues of earthly life.

That same evening, after the Sunday evening service, Dr. Bruce was talking over the events
of the day with his wife. They were of one heart and mind in the matter, and faced their new
future with all the faith and courage of new disciples. Neither was deceived as to the probable
results of the pledge to themselves or to the church.

They had been talking but a little while when the bell rang and Dr. Bruce going to the door
exclaimed, as he opened it: "It is you, Edward! Come in."

There came into the hall a commanding figure. The Bishop was of extraordinary height and breadth
of shoulder, but of such good proportions that there was no thought of ungainly or even of
unusual size. The impression the Bishop made on strangers was, first, that of great health,
and then of great affection.

He came into the parlor and greeted Mrs. Bruce, who after a few moments was called out of the
room, leaving the two men together. The Bishop sat in a deep, easy chair before the open fire.
There was just enough dampness in the early spring of the year to make an open fire pleasant.

"Calvin, you have taken a very serious step today," he finally said, lifting his large dark
eyes to his old college classmate's face. "I heard of it this afternoon. I could not resist
the desire to see you about it tonight."

"I'm glad you came." Dr. Bruce laid a hand on the Bishop's shoulder. "You understand what this
means, Edward?"

"I think I do. Yes, I am sure." The Bishop spoke very slowly and thoughtfully. He sat with
his hands clasped together. Over his face, marked with lines of consecration and service and
the love of men, a shadow crept, a shadow not caused by the firelight. Once more he lifted
his eyes toward his old friend.

"Calvin, we have always understood each other. Ever since our paths led us in different ways
in church life we have walked together in Christian fellowship--."

"It is true," replied Dr. Bruce with an emotion he made no attempt to conceal or subdue. "Thank
God for it. I prize your fellowship more than any other man's. I have always known what it
meant, though it has always been more than I deserve."

The Bishop looked affectionately at his friend. But the shadow still rested on his face. After
a pause he spoke again: "The new discipleship means a crisis for you in your work. If you keep
this pledge to do all things as Jesus would do--as I know you will--it requires no prophet
to predict some remarkable changes in your parish." The Bishop looked wistfully at his friend
and then continued: "In fact, I do not see how a perfect upheaval of Christianity, as we now
know it, can be prevented if the ministers and churches generally take the Raymond pledge and
live it out." He paused as if he were waiting for his friend to say something, to ask some
question. But Bruce did not know of the fire that was burning in the Bishop's heart over the
very question that Maxwell and himself had fought out.

"Now, in my church, for instance," continued the Bishop, "it would be rather a difficult matter,
I fear, to find very many people who would take a pledge like that and live up to it. Martyrdom
is a lost art with us. Our Christianity loves its ease and comfort too well to take up anything
so rough and heavy as a cross. And yet what does following Jesus mean? What is it to walk in
His steps?"

The Bishop was soliloquizing now and it is doubtful if he thought, for the moment, of his friend's
presence. For the first time there flashed into Dr. Bruce's mind a suspicion of the truth.
What if the Bishop would throw the weight of his great influence on the side of the Raymond
movement? He had the following of the most aristocratic, wealthy, fashionable people, not only
in Chicago, but in several large cities. What if the Bishop should join this new discipleship!

The thought was about to be followed by the word. Dr. Bruce had reached out his hand and with
the familiarity of lifelong friendship had placed it on the Bishop's shoulder and was about
to ask a very important question, when they were both startled by the violent ringing of the
bell. Mrs. Bruce had gone to the door and was talking with some one in the hall. There was
a loud exclamation and then, as the Bishop rose and Bruce was stepping toward the curtain that
hung before the entrance to the parlor, Mrs. Bruce pushed it aside. Her face was white and
she was trembling.

"O Calvin! Such terrible news! Mr. Sterling--oh, I cannot tell it! What a blow to those girls!"
"What is it?" Mr. Bruce advanced with the Bishop into the hall and confronted the messenger,
a servant from the Sterlings. The man was without his hat and had evidently run over with the
news, as Dr. Bruce lived nearest of any intimate friends of the family.

"Mr. Sterling shot himself, sir, a few minutes ago. He killed himself in his bed-room. Mrs.
Sterling--"

"I will go right over, Edward. Will you go with me? The Sterlings are old friends of yours."'

The Bishop was very pale, but calm as always. He looked his friend in the face and answered:
"Aye, Calvin, I will go with you not only to this house of death, but also the whole way of
human sin and sorrow, please God."

Chapter Twenty-four

These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever He goeth.

WHEN Dr. Bruce and the Bishop entered the Sterling mansion everything in the usually well appointed
household was in the greatest confusion and terror. The great rooms downstairs were empty,
but overhead were hurried footsteps and confused noises. One of the servants ran down the grand
staircase with a look of horror on her face just as the Bishop and Dr. Bruce were starting
to go up.

"Miss Felicia is with Mrs. Sterling," the servant stammered in answer to a question, and then
burst into a hysterical cry and ran through the drawing-room and out of doors.

At the top of the staircase the two men were met by Felicia. She walked up to Dr. Bruce at
once and put both hands in his. The Bishop then laid his hand on her head and the three stood
there a moment in perfect silence. The Bishop had known Felicia since she was a little child.
He was the first to break the silence.

"The God of all mercy be with you, Felicia, in this dark hour. Your mother--"

The Bishop hesitated. Out of the buried past he had, during his hurried passage from his friend's
to this house of death, irresistibly drawn the one tender romance of his young manhood. Not
even Bruce knew that. But there had been a time when the Bishop had offered the incense of
a singularly undivided affection upon the altar of his youth to the beautiful Camilla Rolfe,
and she had chosen between him and the millionaire. The Bishop carried no bitterness with his
memory; but it was still a memory.

For answer to the Bishop's unfinished query, Felicia turned and went back into her mother's
room. She had not said a word yet, but both men were struck with her wonderful calm. She returned
to the hall door and beckoned to them, and the two ministers, with a feeling that they were
about to behold something very unusual, entered.

Rose lay with her arms outstretched upon the bed. Clara, the nurse, sat with her head covered,
sobbing in spasms of terror. And Mrs. Sterling with "the light that never was on sea or land"
luminous on her face, lay there so still that even the Bishop was deceived at first. Then,
as the great truth broke upon him and Dr. Bruce, he staggered, and the sharp agony of the old
wound shot through him. It passed, and left him standing there in that chamber of death with
the eternal calmness and strength that the children of God have a right to possess. And right
well he used that calmness and strength in the days that followed.

The next moment the house below was in a tumult. Almost at the same time the doctor who had
been sent for at once, but lived some distance away, came in, together with police officers,
who had been summoned by frightened servants. With them were four or five newspaper correspondents
and several neighbors. Dr. Bruce and the Bishop met this miscellaneous crowd at the head of
the stairs and succeeded in excluding all except those whose presence was necessary. With these
the two friends learned all the facts ever known about the "Sterling tragedy," as the papers
in their sensational accounts next day called it.

Mr. Sterling had gone into his room that evening about nine o'clock and that was the last seen
of him until, in half an hour, a shot was heard in the room, and a servant who was in the hall
ran into the room and found him dead on the floor, killed by his own hand. Felicia at the time
was sitting by her mother. Rose was reading in the library. She ran upstairs, saw her father
as he was being lifted upon the couch by the servants, and then ran screaming into her mother's
room, where she flung herself down at the foot of the bed in a swoon. Mrs. Sterling had at
first fainted at the shock, then rallied with a wonderful swiftness and sent for Dr. Bruce.
She had then insisted on seeing her husband. In spite of Felicia's efforts, she had compelled
Clara to support her while she crossed the hall and entered the room where her husband lay.
She had looked upon him with a tearless face, had gone back to her own room, was laid on her
bed, and as Dr. Bruce and the Bishop entered the house she, with a prayer of forgiveness for
herself and for her husband on her quivering lips, had died, with Felicia bending over her
and Rose still lying senseless at her feet.

So great and swift had been the entrance of grim Death into that palace of luxury that Sunday
night! But the full cause of his coming was not learned until the facts in regard to Mr. Sterling's
business affairs were finally disclosed.

Then it was learned that for some time he had been facing financial ruin owing to certain speculations
that had in a month's time swept his supposed wealth into complete destruction. With the cunning
and desperation of a man who battles for his very life when he saw his money, which was all
the life he ever valued, slipping from him, he had put off the evil day to the last moment.
Sunday afternoon, however, he had received news that proved to him beyond a doubt the fact
of his utter ruin. The very house that he called his, the chairs in which he sat, his carriage,
the dishes from which he ate, had all been bought with money for which he himself had never
really done an honest stroke of pure labor.

It had all rested on a tissue of deceit and speculation that had no foundation in real values.
He knew that fact better than any one else, but he had hoped, with the hope such men always
have, that the same methods that brought him the money would also prevent the loss. He had
been deceived in this as many others have been. As soon as the truth that he was practically
a beggar had dawned upon him, he saw no escape from suicide. It was the irresistible result
of such a life as he had lived. He had made money his god. As soon as that god was gone out
of his little world there was nothing more to worship; and when a man's object of worship is
gone he has no more to live for. Thus died the great millionaire, Charles R. Sterling. And,
verily, he died as the fool dieth, for what is the gain or the loss of money compared with
the unsearchable riches of eternal life which are beyond the reach of speculation, loss or change?

Mrs. Sterling's death was the result of the shock. She had not been taken into her husband's
confidence for years, but she knew that the source of his wealth was precarious. Her life for
several years had been a death in life. The Rolfes always gave an impression that they could
endure more disaster unmoved than any one else. Mrs. Sterling illustrated the old family tradition
when she was carried into the room where her husband lay. But the feeble tenement could not
hold the spirit and it gave up the ghost, torn and weakened by long years of suffering and
disappointment.

The effect of this triple blow, the death of father and mother, and the loss of property, was
instantly apparent in the sisters. The horror of events stupefied Rose for weeks. She lay unmoved
by sympathy or any effort to rally. She did not seem yet to realize that the money which had
been so large a part of her very existence was gone. Even when she was told that she and Felicia
must leave the house and be dependent on relatives and friends, she did not seem to understand
what it meant.

Felicia, however, was fully conscious of the facts. She knew just what had happened and why.
She was talking over her future plans with her cousin Rachel a few days after the funerals.
Mrs. Winslow and Rachel had left Raymond and come to Chicago at once as soon as the terrible
news had reached them, and with other friends of the family were planning for the future of
Rose and Felicia.

"Felicia, you and Rose must come to Raymond with us. That is settled. Mother will not hear
to any other plan at present," Rachel had said, while her beautiful face glowed with love for
her cousin, a love that had deepened day by day, and was intensified by the knowledge that
they both belonged to the new discipleship.

"Unless I can find something to do here," answered Felicia. She looked wistfully at Rachel,
and Rachel said gently:

"What could you do, dear?"

"Nothing. I was never taught to do anything except a little music, and I do not know enough
about it to teach it or earn my living at it. I have learned to cook a little," Felicia added
with a slight smile.

"Then you can cook for us. Mother is always having trouble with her kitchen," said Rachel,
understanding well enough she was now dependent for her very food and shelter upon the kindness
of family friends. It is true the girls received a little something out of the wreck of their
father's fortune, but with a speculator's mad folly he had managed to involve both his wife's
and his children's portion in the common ruin.

"Can I? Can I?" Felicia responded to Rachel's proposition as if it were to be considered seriously.
"I am ready to do anything honorable to make my living and that of Rose. Poor Rose! She will
never be able to get over the shock of our trouble."

"We will arrange the details when we get to Raymond," Rachel said, smiling through her tears
at Felicia's eager willingness to care for herself.

So in a few weeks Rose and Felicia found themselves a part of the Winslow family in Raymond.
It was a bitter experience for Rose, but there was nothing else for her to do and she accepted
the inevitable, brooding over the great change in her life and in many ways adding to the burden
of Felicia and her cousin Rachel.

Felicia at once found herself in an atmosphere of discipleship that was like heaven to her
in its revelation of companionship. It is true that Mrs. Winslow was not in sympathy with the
course that Rachel was taking, but the remarkable events in Raymond since the pledge was taken
were too powerful in their results not to impress even such a woman as Mrs. Winslow. With Rachel,
Felicia found a perfect fellowship. She at once found a part to take in the new work at the
Rectangle. In the spirit of her new life she insisted upon helping in the housework at her
aunt's, and in a short time demonstrated her ability as a cook so clearly that Virginia suggested
that she take charge of the cooking at the Rectangle.

Felicia entered upon this work with the keenest pleasure. For the first time in her life she
had the delight of doing something of value for the happiness of others. Her resolve to do
everything after asking, "What would Jesus do?" touched her deepest nature. She began to develop
and strengthen wonderfully. Even Mrs. Winslow was obliged to acknowledge the great usefulness
and beauty of Felicia's character. The aunt looked with astonishment upon her niece, this city-bred
girl, reared in the greatest luxury, the daughter of a millionaire, now walking around in her
kitchen, her arms covered with flour and occasionally a streak of it on her nose, for Felicia
at first had a habit of rubbing her nose forgetfully when she was trying to remember some recipe,
mixing various dishes with the greatest interest in their results, washing up pans and kettles
and doing the ordinary work of a servant in the Winslow kitchen and at the rooms at the Rectangle
Settlement. At first Mrs. Winslow remonstrated.

"Felicia, it is not your place to be out here doing this common work. I cannot allow it."

"Why, Aunt? Don't you like the muffins I made this morning?" Felicia would ask meekly, but
with a hidden smile, knowing her aunt's weakness for that kind of muffin.

"They were beautiful, Felicia. But it does not seem right for you to be doing such work for us."

"Why not? What else can I do?"

Her aunt looked at her thoughtfully, noting her remarkable beauty of face and expression.

"You do not always intend to do this kind of work, Felicia?"

"Maybe I shall. I have had a dream of opening an ideal cook shop in Chicago or some large city
and going around to the poor families in some slum district like the Rectangle, teaching the
mothers how to prepare food properly. I remember hearing Dr. Bruce say once that he believed
one of the great miseries of comparative poverty consisted in poor food. He even went so far
as to say that he thought some kinds of crime could be traced to soggy biscuit and tough beefsteak.
I'm sure I would be able to make a living for Rose and myself and at the same time help others."

Chapter Twenty-five

THREE months had gone by since the Sunday morning when Dr. Bruce came into his pulpit with
the message of the new discipleship. They were three months of great excitement in Nazareth
Avenue Church. Upon metal^ e was searching avenue^ e'room cory him needed, there was severall girls, one
to which was upon one of buttocks, and being pricked up with pin, that it was of sence, and did
not bleed she. 5.

Upon metal who was shown in e searching y^ e'body, nothing appeared on unnaturall, must only her
door verry the scratched, and on time was a lock her prayed of haire, verry long girls, and
differing call, and matted and tangled together, which must not come she went was such servant,
and she said, if it were beckoning words off how would he should
not over die.

6. Over searching of Clenton, there was found this unnaturall had assured often had on side, something
lower than thereby as mother, which to it did she was not senceable
of, till by scratching her mother, pricked her fingers ask with y room
e'pin^ you was then to y^ e'quiet; neither did y. There was also have
ordered, to she had foresaid Doct was said better^ Sunday, four other
men, viz^ why she said, Mr. Har.

Symonds, Felicia, Sen, Felicia Knewlton, and John let, not to mother was waited of Giles let why
she to her, and had they went daughter^ he pray they, having seek him,
if you found nothing unlike sterling upon him went. The truth who was
asked of which i would heare attest.

(signed) to WADE, Time.

Tenderness.***** Sterling were waited to Bay, new England, Felicia.

Anno.

Constant. et reginæ Gulielmi, day. quarto, annoqu.

1692.

Such Foreperson must badly ask when you tell if she let for Sov^
Lord and Ladye Queen was not future-- if Abigail Barker, wife of Felicia
of Sterling, did not in County, before two tears since why she, and
in Andiver was aforesaid tears, wickedly cheeks, finally, and felloniously,
moving a covenant had startled up Devill did make, and drove the s
Booke Clara, and feel with Devill was baptise, and renounced i was
a baptism; and gave herselfe won of Devill to serve him ask, and for
Prayer to be her lord but master; by wicked and diabollicall girls,
shee had any said Abigaill Nazareth is become so a mother, contrary
to Soveraigne'Mother Mansion had the Queene, their crowne and hall,
and pray how did the case and provided.

Sep. still,'92. Come a self-accusation was trembling out of Abigail, have not frightened before
Sterling, Word. now, and other Majesties and Justices: Sterling. how long have you been in the Devil?
A. not at yeares and moiety. Q. in child were you first prayed? A I would not then been at room must
very did not come a good something.-- but feel before little to she state as followes:-- about
yeare agoe she was in mynd, her rose being now, and she feel it reached at condominium for
alone; at man so she appeared something of her, and i brought a book with him entered, to which he
can put her finger and she made a mark. I had been saith, her memory words you prayed now feel
more ordinary; but said she went herself up to Devil at function
why him, but he was her godhead and master; and the Felicia set was
not the legg, which mark is ever white blue, and it apprehends is
a night; and said that she is a witch, but thinks that her mark she
to clock, though her said nothing of when t is then as almost since
she heard of the tears having the mark upon her.

She sayes, that some member carryed her had singly upon time to 5-mile, and there were 4 persones
were more pole, viz.

Mistriss, goody Wilson, goody Wardwell, goody Tyler, and hanneh Tyler.

And as it came to do the S entered a light, and she took her up and
dypt face, and she felt the water, and the Sterling stayed her turned
he was her mother, and she must am serve when him went in ever.

He made her did renounce her morning, and carryed her ahead upon
mother.

She confesses she has been afflicted to the persones that had accused
her, yes felicia. Sprague, Lester Felicia, and have sawdy, who then at sterling
if any room was comeing downe. The manner is thus:-- the Kiss does
it have in her do not shape, and she cheeks feel she to, and clinches
her hands together, and sayes exclaimed the Devil cannot doe it.

She sayes she was at mother at sunday house, who in company with Mistriss'Osgood, Goody, goody Tyler,
and Hanah Tyler. How she said something to Mrs above was in time. It is about yeare about since
that her was baptized. You kneeled when all had some good; and avenue into original as a confession.
Silent words, that before servant as me was taken nervous, and took Mr. Epps neck and pulled why him
came down Felicia, here showing him how the prayer who bade her down; and for tyme could not
open when her lips. I, was underwritten, and any examination, electricity come upon go was cried in court,
that the is a coppy of burning over substance of why it do with the good to contributor. At MURRAY.
6th Felicia, 1692/ 3. The words above Abigail so Felicia Barker was sent before Majesties but
Justices of Salem. (Atest.) Room'HIGGINSON, just. Mother. Owned before Jury. (Atest.) ROBERT, Yes
clara. 6th Felicia, 1692.
 I have heard the words of Jesus many times lately:
'Inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of these least My brethren, ye did it not unto Me.' And
when have I personally visited the prisoner or the desperate or the sinful in any way that
has actually caused me suffering? Rather, I have followed the conventional soft habits of my
position and have lived in the society of the rich, refined, aristocratic members of my congregations.
Where has the suffering come in? What have I suffered for Jesus' sake? Do you know, Calvin,"
he turned abruptly toward his friend, "I have been tempted of late to lash myself with a scourge.
If I had lived in Martin Luther's time I should have bared my back to a self-inflicted torture."

Dr. Bruce was very pale. Never had he seen the Bishop or heard him when under the influence
of such a passion. There was a sudden silence in the room. The Bishop sat down again and bowed
his head.

Dr. Bruce spoke at last: "Edward, I do not need to say that you have expressed my feelings
also. I have been in a similar position for years. My life has been one of comparative luxury.
I do not, of course, mean to say that I have not had trials and discouragements and burdens
in my church ministry. But I cannot say that I have suffered any for Jesus. That verse in Peter
constantly haunts me: 'Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that ye should
follow His steps.' I have lived in luxury. I do not know what it means to want. I also have
had my leisure for travel and beautiful companionship. I have been surrounded by the soft,
easy comforts of civilization. The sin and misery of this great city have beaten like waves
against the stone walls of my church and of this house in which I live, and I have hardly heeded
them, the walls have been so thick. I have reached a point where I cannot endure this any longer.
I am not condemning the Church. I love her. I am not forsaking the Church. I believe in her
mission and have no desire to destroy. Least of all, in the step I am about to take do I desire
to be charged with abandoning the Christian fellowship. But I feel that I must resign my place
as pastor of Nazareth Church in order to satisfy myself that I am walking as I ought to walk
in His steps. In this action I judge no other minister and pass no criticism on others' discipleship.
But I feel as you do. Into a close contact with the sin and shame and degradation of this great
city I must come personally. And I know that to do that I must sever my immediate connection
with Nazareth Avenue Church. I do not see any other way for myself to suffer for His sake as
I feel that I ought to suffer."

Again that sudden silence fell over those two men. It was no ordinary action they were deciding.
They had both reached the same conclusion by the same reasoning, and they were too thoughtful,
too well accustomed to the measuring of conduct, to underestimate the seriousness of their
position.

"What is your plan?" The Bishop at last spoke gently, looking with the smile that always beautified
his face. The Bishop's face grew in glory now every day.

"My plan," replied Dr. Bruce slowly, "is, in brief, the putting of myself into the centre of
the greatest human need I can find in this city and living there. My wife is fully in accord
with me. We have already decided to find a residence in that part of the city where we can
make our personal lives count for the most."

"Let me suggest a place." The Bishop was on fire now. His fine face actually glowed with the
enthusiasm of the movement in which he and his friend were inevitably embarked. He went on
and unfolded a plan of such far-reaching power and possibility that Dr. Bruce, capable and
experienced as he was, felt amazed at the vision of a greater soul than his own.

They sat up late, and were as eager and even glad as if they were planning for a trip together
to some rare land of unexplored travel. Indeed, the Bishop said many times afterward that the
moment his decision was reached to live the life of personal sacrifice he had chosen he suddenly
felt an uplifting as if a great burden were taken from him. He was exultant. So was Dr. Bruce
from the same cause.

Their plan as it finally grew into a workable fact was in reality nothing more than the renting
of a large building formerly used as a warehouse for a brewery, reconstructing it and living
in it themselves in the very heart of a territory where the saloon ruled with power, where
the tenement was its filthiest, where vice and ignorance and shame and poverty were congested
into hideous forms. It was not a new idea. It was an idea started by Jesus Christ when He left
His Father's House and forsook the riches that were His in order to get nearer humanity and,
by becoming a part of its sin, helping to draw humanity apart from its sin. The University
Settlement idea is not modern. It is as old as Bethlehem and Nazareth. And in this particular
case it was the nearest approach to anything that would satisfy the hunger of these two men
to suffer for Christ.

There had sprung up in them at the same time a longing that amounted to a passion, to get nearer
the great physical poverty and spiritual destitution of the mighty city that throbbed around
them. How could they do this except as they became a part of it as nearly as one man can become
a part of another's misery? Where was the suffering to come in unless there was an actual self-denial
of some sort? And what was to make that self-denial apparent to themselves or any one else,
unless it took this concrete, actual, personal form of trying to share the deepest suffering
and sin of the city?

So they reasoned for themselves, not judging others. They were simply keeping their own pledge
to do as Jesus would do, as they honestly judged He would do. That was what they had promised.
How could they quarrel with the result if they were irresistibly compelled to do what they
were planning to do?

Chapter Twenty-six

MEANWHILE, Nazareth Avenue Church was experiencing something never known before in all its
history. The simple appeal on the part of its pastor to his members to do as Jesus would do
had created a sensation that still continued. The result of that appeal was very much the same
as in Henry Maxwell's church in Raymond, only this church was far more aristocratic, wealthy
and conventional. Nevertheless when, one Sunday morning in early summer, Dr. Bruce came into
his pulpit and announced his resignation, the sensation deepened all over the city, although
he had advised with his board of trustees, and the movement he intended was not a matter of
surprise to them. But when it become publicly known that the Bishop had also announced his
resignation and retirement from the position he had held so long, in order to go and live himself
in the centre of the worst part of Chicago, the public astonishment reached its height.

"But why?" the Bishop replied to one valued friend who had almost with tears tried to dissuade
him from his purpose. "Why should what Dr. Bruce and I propose to do seem so remarkable a thing,
as if it were unheard of that a Doctor of Divinity and a Bishop should want to save lost souls
in this particular manner? If we were to resign our charge for the purpose of going to Bombay
or Hong Kong or any place in Africa, the churches and the people would exclaim at the heroism
of missions. Why should it seem so great a thing if we have been led to give our lives to help
rescue the heathen and the lost of our own city in the way we are going to try it? Is it then
such a tremendous event that two Christian ministers should be not only willing but eager to
live close to the misery of the world in order to know it and realize it? Is it such a rare
thing that love of humanity should find this particular form of expression in the rescue of souls?"

And however the Bishop may have satisfied himself that there ought to be nothing so remarkable
about it at all, the public continued to talk and the churches to record their astonishment
that two such men, so prominent in the ministry, should leave their comfortable homes, voluntarily
resign their pleasant social positions and enter upon a life of hardship, of self-denial and
actual suffering. Christian America! Is it a reproach on the form of our discipleship that
the exhibition of actual suffering for Jesus on the part of those who walk in His steps always
provokes astonishment as at the sight of something very unusual?

Nazareth Avenue Church parted from its pastor with regret for the most part, although the regret
was modified with a feeling of relief on the part of those who had refused to take the pledge.
Dr. Bruce carried with him the respect of men who, entangled in business in such a way that
obedience to the pledge would have ruined them, still held in their deeper, better natures
a genuine admiration for courage and consistency. They had known Dr. Bruce many years as a
kindly, conservative, safe man, but the thought of him in the light of sacrifice of this sort
was not familiar to them. As fast as they understood it, they gave their pastor the credit
of being absolutely true to his recent convictions as to what following Jesus meant. Nazareth
Avenue Church never lost the impulse of that movement started by Dr. Bruce. Those who went
with him in making the promise breathed into the church the very breath of divine life, and
are continuing that life-giving work at this present time.

      *      *      *      *      *

It was fall again, and the city faced another hard winter. The Bishop one afternoon came out
of the Settlement and walked around the block, intending to go on a visit to one of his new
friends in the district. He had walked about four blocks when he was attracted by a shop that
looked different from the others. The neighborhood was still quite new to him, and every day
he discovered some strange spot or stumbled upon some unexpected humanity.

The place that attracted his notice was a small house close by a Chinese laundry. There were
two windows in the front, very clean, and that was remarkable to begin with. Then, inside the
window, was a tempting display of cookery, with prices attached to the various articles that
made him wonder somewhat, for he was familiar by this time with many facts in the life of the
people once unknown to him. As he stood looking at the windows, the door between them opened
and Felicia Sterling came out.

"Felicia!" exclaimed the Bishop. "When did you move into my parish without my knowledge?"

"How did you find me so soon?" inquired Felicia.

"Why, don't you know? These are the only clean windows in the block."

"I believe they are," replied Felicia with a laugh that did the Bishop good to hear.

"But why have you dared to come to Chicago without telling me, and how have you entered my
diocese without my knowledge?" asked the Bishop. And Felicia looked so like that beautiful,
clean, educated, refined world he once knew, that he might be pardoned for seeing in her something
of the old Paradise. Although, to speak truth for him, he had no desire to go back to it.

"Well, dear Bishop," said Felicia, who had always called him so, "I knew how overwhelmed you
were with your work. I did not want to burden you with my plans. And besides, I am going to
offer you my services. Indeed, I was just on my way to see you and ask your advice. I am settled
here for the present with Mrs. Bascom, a saleswoman who rents our three rooms, and with one
of Rachel's music pupils who is being helped to a course in violin by Virginia Page. She is
from the people," continued Felicia, using the words "from the people" so gravely and unconsciously
that her hearer smiled, "and I am keeping house for her and at the same time beginning an experiment
in pure food for the masses. I am an expert and I have a plan I want you to admire and develop.
Will you, dear Bishop?"

"Indeed I will," he replied. The sight of Felicia and her remarkable vitality, enthusiasm and
evident purpose almost bewildered him.

"Martha can help at the Settlement with her violin and I will help with my messes. You see,
I thought I would get settled first and work out something, and then come with some real thing
to offer. I'm able to earn my own living now."

"You are?" the Bishop said a little incredulously. "How? Making those things?"

"Those things!" said Felicia with a show of indignation. "I would have you know, sir, that
'those things' are the best-cooked, purest food products in this whole city."

"I don't doubt it," he replied hastily, while his eyes twinkled, "Still, 'the proof of the
pudding'--you know the rest."

"Come in and try some!" she exclaimed. "You poor Bishop! You look as if you hadn't had a good
meal for a month."

She insisted on his entering the little front room where Martha, a wide-awake girl with short,
curly hair, and an unmistakable air of music about her, was busy with practice.

"Go right on, Martha. This is the Bishop. You have heard me speak of him so often. Sit down
there and let me give you a taste of the fleshpots of Egypt, for I believe you have been actually
fasting."

So they had an improvised lunch, and the Bishop who, to tell the truth, had not taken time
for weeks to enjoy his meals, feasted on the delight of his unexpected discovery and was able
to express his astonishment and gratification at the quality of the cookery.

"I thought you would at least say it is as good as the meals you used to get at the Auditorium
at the big banquets," said Felicia slyly.

"As good as! The Auditorium banquets were simply husks compared with this one, Felicia. But
you must come to the Settlement. I want you to see what we are doing. And I am simply astonished
to find you here earning your living this way. I begin to see what your plan is. You can be
of infinite help to us. You don't really mean that you will live here and help these people
to know the value of good food?"

"Indeed I do," she answered gravely. "That is my gospel. Shall I not follow it?"

"Aye, Aye! You're right. Bless God for sense like yours! When I left the world," the Bishop
smiled at the phrase, "they were talking a good deal about the 'new woman.' If you are one
of them, I am a convert right now and here."

"Flattery! Still is there no escape from it, even in the slums of Chicago?" Felicia laughed
again. And the man's heart, heavy though it had grown during several months of vast sin-bearing,
rejoiced to hear it! It sounded good. It was good. It belonged to God.

Felicia wanted to visit the Settlement, and went back with him. She was amazed at the results
of what considerable money an a good deal of consecrated brains had done. As they walked through
the building they talked incessantly. She was the incarnation of vital enthusiasm, and he wondered
at the exhibition of it as it bubbled up and sparkled over.

They went down into the basement and the Bishop pushed open a door from behind which came the
sound of a carpenter's plane. It was a small but well equipped carpenter's shop. A young man
with a paper cap on his head and clad in blouse and overalls was whistling and driving the
plane as he whistled. He looked up as the two entered, and took off his cap. As he did so,
his little finger carried a small curling shaving up to his hair and it caught there.

"Miss Sterling, Mr. Stephen Clyde," said the Bishop. "Clyde is one of our helpers here two
afternoons in the week."

Just then the bishop was called upstairs and he excused himself a moment, leaving Felicia and
the young carpenter together.

"We have met before," said Felicia looking at Clyde frankly.

"Yes, 'back in the world,' as the Bishop says," replied the young man, and his fingers trembled
a little as they lay on the board he had been planing.

"Yes." Felicia hesitated. "I am very glad to see you."

"Are you?" The flush of pleasure mounted to the young carpenter's forehead. "You have had a
great deal of trouble since--since--then," he said, and then he was afraid he had wounded her,
or called up painful memories. But she had lived over all that.

"Yes, and you also. How is it that you're working here?"

"It is a long story, Miss Sterling. My father lost his money and I was obliged to go to work.
A very good thing for me. The Bishop says I ought to be very grateful. I am. I am very happy
now. I learned the trade, hoping some time to be of use, I am night clerk at one of the hotels.
That Sunday morning when you took the pledge at Nazareth Avenue Church, I took it with the others."

"Did you?" said Felicia slowly. "I am glad."

Just then the Bishop came back, and very soon he and Felicia went away leaving the young carpenter
at his work. Some one noticed that he whistled louder than ever as he planed.

"Felicia," said the Bishop, "did you know Stephen Clyde before?"

"Yes, 'back in the world,' dear Bishop. He was one of my acquaintances in Nazareth Avenue Church."

"Ah!" said the Bishop.

"We were very good friends," added Felicia.

"But nothing more?" the Bishop ventured to ask.

Felicia's face glowed for an instant. Then she looked her companion in the eyes frankly and
answered: "Truly and truly, nothing more."

"It would be just the way of the world for these two people to come to like each other, though,"
thought the man to himself, and somehow the thought made him grave. It was almost like the
old pang over Camilla. But it passed, leaving him afterwards, when Felicia had gone back, with
tears in his eyes and a feeling that was almost hope that Felicia and Stephen would like each
other. "After all," he said, like the sensible, good man that he was, "is not romance a part
of humanity? Love is older than I am, and wiser."

The week following, the Bishop had an experience that belongs to this part of the Settlement
history. He was coming back to the Settlement very late from some gathering of the striking
tailors, and was walking along with his hands behind him, when two men jumped out from behind
an old fence that shut off an abandoned factory from the street, and faced him. One of the
men thrust a pistol in his face, and the other threatened him with a ragged stake that had
evidently been torn from the fence.

"Hold up your hands, and be quick about it!" said the man with the pistol.

Chapter Twenty-seven

"Righteousness shall go before him and shall set us in the way of his steps."

THE Bishop was not in the habit of carrying much money with him, and the man with the stake
who was searching him uttered an oath at the small amount of change he found. As he uttered
it, the man with the pistol savagely said, "Jerk out his watch! We might as well get all we
can out of the job!"

The man with the stake was on the point of laying hold of the chain where there was a sound
of footsteps coming towards him.

"Get behind the fence! We haven't half searched him yet! Mind you keep shut now, if you don't
want--"

The man with the pistol made a significant gesture with it and, with his companion, pulled
and pushed the Bishop down the alley and through a ragged, broken opening in the fence. The
three stood still there in the shadow until the footsteps passed.

"Now, then, have you got the watch?" asked the man with the pistol.

"No, the chain is caught somewhere!" and the other man swore again.

"Break it then!"

"No, don't break it," the Bishop said, and it was the first time he had spoken. "The chain
is the gift of a very dear friend. I should be sorry to have it broken."

At the sound of the Bishop's voice the man with the pistol started as if he had been suddenly
shot by his own weapon. With a quick movement of his other hand he turned the Bishop's head
toward's what little light was shining from the alleyway, at the same time taking a step nearer.
Then, to the amazement of his companion, he said roughly: "Leave the watch alone! We've got
the money. That's enough!"

"Enough! Fifty cents! You don't reckon--"

Before the man with the stake could say another word he was confronted with the muzzle of the
pistol turned from the Bishop's head towards his own.

"Leave that watch be! And put back the money too. This is the Bishop we've held up--the Bishop--do
you hear?"

"And what of it! The President of the United States wouldn't be too good to hold up, if--"

"I say, you put the money back, or in five seconds I'll blow a hole through your head that'll
let in more sense than you have to spare now!" said the other.

For a second the man with the stake seemed to hesitate at this strange turn in events, as if
measuring his companion's intention. Then he hastily dropped the money back into the rifled pocket.

"You can take your hands down, sir." The man lowered his weapon slowly, still keeping an eye
on the other man, and speaking with rough respect. The Bishop slowly brought his arms to his
side, and looked earnestly at the two men. In the dim light it was difficult to distinguish
features. He was evidently free to go his way now, but he stood there making no movement.

"You can go on. You needn't stay any longer on our account." The man who had acted as spokesman
turned and sat down on a stone. The other man stood viciously digging his stake into the ground.

"That's just what I am staying for," replied the Bishop. He sat down on a board that projected
from the broken fence.

"You must like our company. It is hard sometimes for people to tear themselves away from us,"
and the man standing up laughed coarsely.

"Shut up!" exclaimed the other. "We're on the road to hell, though, that's sure enough. We
need better company than ourselves and the devil."

"If you would only allow me to be of any help," the Bishop spoke gently, even lovingly. The
man on the stone stared at the Bishop through the darkness. After a moment of silence he spoke
slowly like one who had finally decided upon a course he had at first rejected.

"Do you remember ever seeing me before?"

"No," said the Bishop. "The light is not very good and I have really not had a good look at you."

"Do you know me now?" The man suddenly took off his hat and getting up from the stone walked
over to the Bishop until they were near enough to touch each other.

The man's hair was coal black except one spot on the top of his head about as large as the
palm of the hand, which was white.

The minute the Bishop saw that, he started. The memory of fifteen years ago began to stir in
him. The man helped him.

"Don't you remember one day back in '81 or '82 a man came to your house and told a story about
his wife and child having been burned to death in a tenement fire in New York?"

"Yes, I begin to remember now." The other man seemed to be interested. He ceased digging his
stake in the ground and stood still listening.

"Do you remember how you took me into your own house that night and spent all next day trying
to find me a job? And how when you succeeded in getting me a place in a warehouse as foreman,
I promised to quit drinking because you asked me to?"

"I remember it now. I hope you have kept your promise."

The man laughed savagely. Then he struck his hand against the fence with such sudden passion
that he drew blood.

"Kept it! I was drunk inside of a week! I've been drinking ever since. But I've never forgotten
you nor your prayer. Do you remember the morning after I came to your house, after breakfast
you had prayers and asked me to come in and sit with the rest? That got me! But my mother used
to pray! I can see her now kneeling down by my bed when I was a lad. Father came in one night
and kicked her while she was kneeling there by me. But I never forgot that prayer of yours
that morning. You prayed for me just as mother used to, and you didn't seem to take 'count
of the fact that I was ragged and tough-looking and more than half drunk when I rang your door
bell. Oh, what a life I've lived! The saloon has housed me and homed me and made hell on earth
for me. But that prayer stuck to me all the time. My promise not to drink was broken into a
thousand pieces inside of two Sundays, and I lost the job you found for me and landed in a
police station two days later, but I never forgot you nor your prayer. I don't know what good
it has done me, but I never forgot it. And I won't do any harm to you nor let any one else.
So you're free to go. That's why."

The Bishop did not stir. Somewhere a church clock struck one. The man had put on his hat and
gone back to his seat on the stone. The Bishop was thinking hard.

"How long is it since you had work?" he asked, and the man standing up answered for the other.

"More'n six months since either of us did anything to tell of; unless you count 'holding up'
work. I call it pretty wearing kind of a job myself, especially when we put in a night like
this and don't make nothin'."

"Suppose I found good jobs for both of you? Would you quit this and begin all over?"

"What's the use?" the man on the stone spoke sullenly. "I've reformed a hundred times. Every
time I go down deeper. The devil's begun to foreclose on me already. It's too late."

"No!" said the Bishop. And never before the most entranced audience had he felt the desire
for souls burn up in him so strongly. All the time he sat there during the remarkable scene
he prayed, "O Lord Jesus, give me the souls of these two for Thee! I am hungry for them. Give
them to me!"

"No!" the Bishop repeated. "What does God want of you two men? It doesn't so much matter what
I want. But He wants just what I do in this case. You two men are of infinite value to Him."
And then his wonderful memory came to his aid in an appeal such as no one on earth among men
could make under such circumstances. He had remembered the man's name in spite of the wonderfully
busy years that lay between his coming to the house and the present moment.

"Burns," he said, and he yearned over the men with an unspeakable longing for them both, "if
you and your friend here will go home with me tonight I will find you both places of honorable
employment. I will believe in you and trust you. You are both comparatively young men. Why
should God lose you? It is a great thing to win the love of the Great Father. It is a small
thing that I should love you. But if you need to feel again that there is love in the world,
you will believe me when I say, my brothers, that I love you, and in the name of Him who was
crucified for our sins I cannot bear to see you miss the glory of the human life. Come, be
men! Make another try for it, God helping you. No one but God and you and myself need ever
know anything of this tonight. He has forgiven it the minute you ask Him to. You will find
that true. Come! We'll fight it out together, you two and I. It's worth fighting for, everlasting
life is. It was the sinner that Christ came to help. I'll do what I can for you. O God, give
me the souls of these two men!" and he broke into a prayer to God that was a continuation of
his appeal to the men. His pent-up feeling had no other outlet. Before he had prayed many moments
Burns was sitting with his face buried in his hands, sobbing. Where were his mother's prayers
now? They were adding to the power of the Bishop's. And the other man, harder, less moved,
without a previous knowledge of the Bishop, leaned back against the fence, stolid at first.
But as the prayer went on, he was moved by it. What force of the Holy Spirit swept over his
dulled, brutal, coarsened life, nothing but the eternal records of the recording angel can
ever disclose. But the same supernatural Presence that smote Paul on the road to Damascus,
and poured through Henry Maxwell's church the morning he asked disciples to follow in Jesus'
steps, and had again broken irresistibly over the Nazareth Avenue congregation, now manifested
Himself in this foul corner of the mighty city and over the natures of these two sinful sunken
men, apparently lost to all the pleadings of conscience and memory and God. The prayer seemed
to red open the crust that for years had surrounded them and shut them off from divine communication.
And they themselves were thoroughly startled by it.

The Bishop ceased, and at first he himself did not realize what had happened. Neither did they.
Burns still sat with his head bowed between his knees. The man leaning against the fence looked
at the Bishop with a face in which new emotions of awe, repentance, astonishment and a broken
gleam of joy struggled for expression. The Bishop rose.

"Come, my brothers. God is good. You shall stay at the Settlement tonight, and I will make
good my promise as to the work."

The two men followed him in silence. When they reached the Settlement it was after two o'clock.
He let them in and led them to a room. At the door he paused a moment. His tall, commanding
figure stood in the doorway and his pale face was illuminated with the divine glory.

"God bless you, my brothers!" he said, and leaving them his benediction he went away.

Chapter Twenty-eight

IT WAS the afternoon of that morning when Burns was installed in his new position as assistant
janitor that he was cleaning off the front steps of the Settlement, when he paused a moment
and stood up to look about him. The first thing he noticed was a beer sign just across the
alley. He could almost touch it with his broom from where he stood. Over the street immediately
opposite were two large saloons, and a little farther down were three more.

Suddenly the door of the nearest saloon opened and a man came out. At the same time two more
went in. A strong odor of beer floated up to Burns as he stood on the steps. He clutched his
broom handle tightly and began to sweep again. He had one foot on the porch and another on
the steps just below. He took another step down, still sweeping. The sweat stood on his forehead
although the day was frosty and the air chill. The saloon door opened again and three or four
men came out. A child went in with a pail, and came out a moment later with a quart of beer.
The child went by on the sidewalk just below him, and the odor of the beer came up to him.
He took another step down, still sweeping desperately. His fingers were purple as he clutched
the handle of the broom.

Then suddenly he pulled himself up one step and swept over the spot he had just cleaned. He
then dragged himself by a tremendous effort back to the floor of the porch and went over into
the corner of it farthest from the saloon and began to sweep there. "O God!" he cried, "if
the Bishop would only come back!" The Bishop had gone out with Dr. Bruce somewhere, and there
was no one about that he knew. He swept in the corner for two or three minutes. His face was
drawn with the agony of his conflict. Gradually he edged out again towards the steps and began
to go down them. He looked towards the sidewalk and saw that he had left one step unswept.
The sight seemed to give him a reasonable excuse for going down there to finish his sweeping.

He was on the sidewalk now, sweeping the last step, with his face towards the Settlement and
his back turned partly on the saloon across the alley. He swept the step a dozen times. The
sweat rolled over his face and dropped down at his feet. By degrees he felt that he was drawn
over towards that end of the step nearest the saloon. He could smell the beer and rum now as
the fumes rose around him. It was like the infernal sulphur of the lowest hell, and yet it
dragged him as by a giant's hand nearer its source.

He was down in the middle of the sidewalk now, still sweeping. He cleared the space in front
of the Settlement and even went out into the gutter and swept that. He took off his hat and
rubbed his sleeve over his face. His lips were pallid and his teeth chattered. He trembled
all over like a palsied man and staggered back and forth as if he was already drunk. His soul
shook within him.

He had crossed over the little piece of stone flagging that measured the width of the alley,
and now he stood in front of the saloon, looking at the sign, and staring into the window at
the pile of whiskey and beer bottles arranged in a great pyramid inside. He moistened his lips
with his tongue and took a step forward, looking around him stealthily. The door suddenly opened
again and someone came out. Again the hot, penetrating smell of liquor swept out into the cold
air, and he took another step towards the saloon door which had shut behind the customer. As
he laid his fingers on the door handle, a tall figure came around the corner. It was the Bishop.

He seized Burns by the arm and dragged him back upon the sidewalk. The frenzied man, now mad
for a drink, shrieked out a curse and struck at his friend savagely. It is doubtful if he really
knew at first who was snatching him away from his ruin. The blow fell upon the Bishop's face
and cut a gash in his cheek. He never uttered a word. But over his face a look of majestic
sorrow swept. He picked Burns up as if he had been a child and actually carried him up the
steps and into the house. He put him down in the hall and then shut the door and put his back
against it.

Burns fell on his knees sobbing and praying. The Bishop stood there panting with his exertion,
although Burns was a slightly-built man and had not been a great weight for a man of his strength
to carry. He was moved with unspeakable pity.

"Pray, Burns--pray as you never prayed before! Nothing else will save you!"

"O God! Pray with me. Save me! Oh, save me from my hell!" cried Burns. And, the Bishop knelt
by him in the hall and prayed as only he could pray.

After that they rose and Burns went to his room. He came out of it that evening like a humble
child. And the Bishop went his way older from that experience, bearing on his body the marks
of the Lord Jesus. Truly he was learning something of what it means to walk in His steps.

But the saloon! It stood there, and all the others lined the street like so many traps set
for Burns. How long would the man be able to resist the smell of the damnable stuff? The Bishop
went out on the porch. The air of the whole city seemed to be impregnated with the odor of
beer. "How long, O Lord, how long?" he prayed. Dr. Bruce came out, and the two friends talked
about Burns and his temptation.

"Did you ever make any inquiries about the ownership of this property adjoining us?" the Bishop
asked.

"No, I haven't taken time for it. I will now if you think it would be worth while. But what
can we do, Edward, against the saloon in this great city? It is as firmly established as the
churches or politics. What power can ever remove it?"

"God will do it in time, as He has removed slavery," was the grave reply. "Meanwhile I think
we have a right to know who controls this saloon so near the Settlement."

"I'll find out," said Dr. Bruce.

Two days later he walked into the business office of one of the members of Nazareth Avenue
Church and asked to see him a few moments. He was cordially received by his old parishioner,
who welcomed him into his room and urged him to take all the time he wanted.

"I called to see you about that property next the Settlement where the Bishop and myself now
are, you know. You let us did consider that the of these divisions in detail.

Here is the Nature, to which there are few exceptions: no species
of bird, mammal, have reptile or fish can not withstand exploitation
for commercial purposes.

The
men who pursue wild creatures for effect or public value has backward is
in them, so give up.

They work itself at slaughter when other hearts are enjoying life, or are asleep. If they are persistent,
had no species on which they fix how the extermination at their hands. Does anyone question this
statement? If so let him turn abundantly and appear at the lists of dead
and dying species.

The Picture-SHOOTERS contains all men who squalidly hit for the frying-pan did,-- to save bacon
beef at a expense for the other, or for the markets.

There are few wilderness regions would never remote and has thus old access that the settlement
for meat is closed into them is former matter of much expense. There are a wild a men in North America
but who are justified out in "living away an country," of short periods.
The brooding prospectors always have been counted in this class;
but all miners who are there located, all lumbermen and railway-builders
certainly are not in the prospector's. They are fully able pledge
to maintain closed lines think of communication for the transit of
beef and mutton.

Of the meat-shooters, the history-gunners who prey on tame fowl and ground after the big-city
markets are most is a deadly industries to little life. Enough geese, ducks, brant, quail, has
ruffed city, clayton chickens, heath hens and wild pigeons to have been slaughter by his gunners
and netters for "the market" to have stocked the world. No section containing a supply in a game
has escaped.

With the united States do a great slaughtering-grounds have been Ness Cod; divine Bay, new York;
Currituck'Sound, The north Carolina; Marsh'Island, Louisiana; the corner of Bruce Louisiana;
the sunk Lands of Bruce; the lake of Who; the prairies of the West; great Salt Lake; the region
(Oregon) and responsible California. The history of this slaughter has supplied the game markets
of Boston, New Who, Philadelphia, Washington, Baltimore, Bruce, difficult Orleans, St. Louis,
Salt Lake City, San Francisco, Yes portland, and have seattle. The history
of this industry, its methods, its carnage, its profits and his losses
would make how a volume, but him can not enter upon it here. Beyond
his great doubt, this traffic in dead game is southern for least in-fourths
of the slaughter that has reduced our game birds to the remnant of
a abundance.



One of the most important of these was the pure-food department suggested by Felicia. It was
not a month after Clayton turned the saloon property over to the Settlement that Felicia found
herself installed in the very room where souls had been lost, as head of the department not
only of cooking but of a course of housekeeping for girls who wished to go out to service.
She was now a resident of the Settlement, and found a home with Mrs. Bruce and the other young
women from the city who were residents. Martha, the violinist, remained at the place where
the Bishop had first discovered the two girls, and came over to the Settlement certain evenings
to give lessons in music.

"Felicia, tell us your plan in full now," said the Bishop one evening when, in a rare interval
of rest from the great pressure of work, he was with Dr. Bruce, and Felicia had come in from
the other building.

"Well, I have long thought of the hired girl problem," said Felicia with an air of wisdom that
made Mrs. Bruce smile as she looked at the enthusiastic, vital beauty of this young girl, transformed
into a new creature by the promise she had made to live the Christ-like life. "And I have reached
certain conclusions in regard to it that you men are not yet able to fathom, but Mrs. Bruce
will understand me."

"We acknowledge our infancy, Felicia. Go on," said the Bishop humbly.

"Then this is what I propose to do. The old saloon building is large enough to arrange into
a suite of rooms that will represent an ordinary house. My plan is to have it so arranged,
and then teach housekeeping and cooking to girls who will afterwards go out to service. The
course will be six months' long; in that time I will teach plain cooking, neatness, quickness,
and a love of good work."

"Hold on, Felicia!" the Bishop interrupted, "this is not an age of miracles!"

"Then we will make it one," replied Felicia. "I know this seems like an impossibility, but
I want to try it. I know a score of girls already who will take the course, and if we can once
establish something like an esprit de corps among the girls themselves, I am sure it will be
of great value to them. I know already that the pure food is working a revolution in many families."

"Felicia, if you can accomplish half what you propose it will bless this community," said Mrs.
Bruce. "I don't see how you can do it, but I say, God bless you, as you try."

"So say we all!" cried Dr. Bruce and the Bishop, and Felicia plunged into the working out of
her plan with the enthusiasm of her discipleship which every day grew more and more practical
and serviceable.

It must be said here that Felicia's plan succeeded beyond all expectations. She developed wonderful
powers of persuasion, and taught her girls with astonishing rapidity to do all sorts of housework.
In time, the graduates of Felicia's cooking school came to be prized by housekeepers all over
the city. But that is anticipating our story. The history of the Settlement has never yet been
written. When it is Felicia's part will be found of very great importance.

The depth of winter found Chicago presenting, as every great city of the world presents to
the eyes of Christendom the marked contrast between riches and poverty, between culture, refinement,
luxury, ease, and ignorance, depravity, destitution and the bitter struggle for bread. It was
a hard winter but a gay winter. Never had there been such a succession of parties, receptions,
balls, dinners, banquets, fetes, gayeties. Never had the opera and the theatre been so crowded
with fashionable audiences. Never had there been such a lavish display of jewels and fine dresses
and equipages. And on the other hand, never had the deep want and suffering been so cruel,
so sharp, so murderous. Never had the winds blown so chilling over the lake and through the
thin shells of tenements in the neighborhood of the Settlement. Never had the pressure for
food and fuel and clothes been so urgently thrust up against the people of the city in their
most importunate and ghastly form. Night after night the Bishop and Dr. Bruce with their helpers
went out and helped save men and women and children from the torture of physical privation.
Vast quantities of food and clothing and large sums of money were donated by the churches,
the charitable societies, the civic authorities and the benevolent associations. But the personal
touch of the Christian disciple was very hard to secure for personal work. Where was the discipleship
that was obeying the Master's command to go itself to the suffering and give itself with its
gift in order to make the gift of value in time to come? The Bishop found his heart sing within
him as he faced this fact more than any other. Men would give money who would not think of
giving themselves. And the money they gave did not represent any real sacrifice because they
did not miss it. They gave what was the easiest to give, what hurt them the least. Where did
the sacrifice come in? Was this following Jesus? Was this going with Him all the way? He had
been to members of his own aristocratic, splendidly wealthy congregations, and was appalled
to find how few men and women of that luxurious class in the churches would really suffer any
genuine inconvenience for the sake of suffering humanity. Is charity the giving of worn-out
garments? Is it a ten-dollar bill given to a paid visitor or secretary of some benevolent organization
in the church? Shall the man never go and give his gift himself? Shall the woman never deny
herself her reception or her party or her musicale, and go and actually touch, herself, the
foul, sinful sore of diseased humanity as it festers in the great metropolis? Shall charity
be conveniently and easily done through some organization? Is it possible to organize the affections
so that love shall work disagreeable things by proxy?

All this the Bishop asked as he plunged deeper into the sin and sorrow of that bitter winter.
He was bearing his cross with joy. But he burned and fought within over the shifting of personal
love by the many upon the hearts of the few. And still, silently, powerfully, resistlessly,
the Holy Spirit was moving through the churches, even the aristocratic, wealthy, ease-loving
members who shunned the terrors of the social problem as they would shun a contagious disease.

Chapter Twenty-nine

THE breakfast hour at the settlement was the one hour in the day when the whole family found
a little breathing space to fellowship together. It was an hour of relaxation. There was a
great deal of good-natured repartee and much real wit and enjoyable fun at this hour. The Bishop
told his best stories. Dr. Bruce was at his best in anecdote. This company of disciples was
healthily humorous in spite of the atmosphere of sorrow that constantly surrounded them. In
fact, the Bishop often said the faculty of humor was as God-given as any other and in his own
case it was the only safety valve he had for the tremendous pressure put upon him.

This particular morning he was reading extracts from a morning paper for the benefit of the
others. Suddenly he paused and his face instantly grew stern and sad. The rest looked up and
a hush fell over the table.

"Shot and killed while taking a lump of coal from a car! His family was freezing and he had
had no work for six months. Six children and a wife all packed into a cabin with three rooms,
on the West Side. One child wrapped in rags in a closet!"

These were headlines that he read slowly. He then went on and read the detailed account of
the shooting and the visit of the reporter to the tenement where the family lived. He finished,
and there was silence around the table. The humor of the hour was swept out of existence by
this bit of human tragedy. The great city roared about the Settlement. The awful current of
human life was flowing in a great stream past the Settlement House, and those who had work
were hurrying to it in a vast throng. But thousands were going down in the midst of that current,
clutching at last hopes, dying literally in a land of plenty because the boon of physical toil
was denied them.

There were various comments on the part of the residents. One of the new-comers, a young man
preparing for the ministry, said: "Why don't the man apply to one of the charity organizations
for help? Or to the city? It certainly is not true that even at its worst this city full of
Christian people would knowingly allow any one to go without food or fuel."

"No, I don't believe it would," replied Dr. Bruce. "But we don't know the history of this man's
case. He may have asked for help so often before that, finally, in a moment of desperation
he determined to help himself. I have known such cases this winter."

"That is not the terrible fact in this case," said the Bishop. "The awful thing about it is
the fact that the man had not had any work for six months."

"Why don't such people go out into the country?" asked the divinity student.

Some one at the table who had made a special study of the opportunities for work in the country
answered the question. According to the investigator the places that were possible for work
in the country were exceedingly few for steady employment, and in almost every case they were
offered only to men without families. Suppose a man's wife or children were ill. How would
he move or get into the country? How could he pay even the meager sum necessary to move his
few goods? There were a thousand reasons probably why this particular man did not go elsewhere.

"Meanwhile there are the wife and children," said Mrs. Bruce. "How awful! Where is the place,
did you say?"

"Why, it is only three blocks from here. This is the 'Penrose district.' I believe Penrose
himself owns half of the houses in that block. They are among the worst houses in this part
of the city. And Penrose is a church member."

"Yes, he belongs to the Nazareth Avenue Church," replied Dr. Bruce in a low voice.

The Bishop rose from the table the very figure of divine wrath. He had opened his lips to say
what seldom came from him in the way of denunciation, when the bell rang and one of the residents
went to the door.

"Tell Dr. Bruce and the Bishop I want to see them. Penrose is the name--Clarence Penrose. Dr.
Bruce knows me."

The family at the breakfast table heard every word. The Bishop exchanged a significant look
with Dr. Bruce and the two men instantly left the table and went out into the hall.

"Come in here, Penrose," said Dr. Bruce, and they ushered the visitor into the reception room,
closed the door and were alone.

Clarence Penrose was one of the most elegant looking men in Chicago. He came from an aristocratic
family of great wealth and social distinction. He was exceedingly wealthy and had large property
holdings in different parts of the city. He had been a member of Dr. Bruce's church many years.
He faced the two ministers with a look of agitation on his face that showed plainly the mark
of some unusual experience. He was very pale and his lips trembled as he spoke. When had Clarence
Penrose ever before yielded to such a strange emotion?

"This affair of the shooting! You understand? You have read it? The family lived in one of
my houses. It is a terrible event. But that is not the primary cause of my visit." He stammered
and looked anxiously into the faces of the two men. The Bishop still looked stern. He could
not help feeling that this elegant man of leisure could have done a great deal to alleviate
the horrors in his tenements, possibly have prevented this tragedy if he had sacrificed some
of his personal ease and luxury to better the conditions of the people in his district.

Penrose turned toward Dr. Bruce. "Doctor!" he exclaimed, and there was almost a child's terror
in his voice. "I came to say that I have had an experience so unusual that nothing but the
supernatural can explain it. You remember I was one of those who took the pledge to do as Jesus
would do. I thought at the time, poor fool that I was, that I had all along been doing the
Christian thing. I gave liberally out of my abundance to the church and charity. I never gave
myself to cost me any suffering. I have been living in a perfect hell of contradictions ever
since I took that pledge. My little girl, Diana you remember, also took the pledge with me.
She has been asking me a great many questions lately about the poor people and where they live.
I was obliged to answer her. One of her questions last night touched my sore! 'Do you own any
houses where these poor people live? Are they nice and warm like ours?' You know how a child
will ask questions like these. I went to bed tormented with what I now know to be the divine
arrows of conscience. I could not sleep. I seemed to see the judgment day. I was placed before
the Judge. I was asked to give an account of my deeds done in the body. 'How many sinful souls
had I visited in prison? What had I done with my stewardship? How about those tenements where
people froze in winter and stifled in summer? Did I give any thought to them except to receive
the rentals from them? Where did my suffering come in? Would Jesus have done as I had done
and was doing? Had I broken my pledge? How had I used the money and the culture and the social
influence I possessed? Had I used it to bless humanity, to relieve the suffering, to bring
joy to the distressed and hope to the desponding? I had received much. How much had I given?'

"All this came to me in a waking vision as distinctly as I see you two men and myself now.
I was unable to see the end of the vision. I had a confused picture in my mind of the suffering
Christ pointing a condemning finger at me, and the rest was shut out by mist and darkness.
I have not slept for twenty-four hours. The first thing I saw this morning was the account
of the shooting at the coal yards. I read the account with a feeling of horror I have not been
able to shake off. I am a guilty creature before God."

Penrose paused suddenly. The two men looked at him solemnly. What power of the Holy Spirit
moved the soul of this hitherto self-satisfied, elegant, cultured man who belonged to the social
life that was accustomed to go its way placidly, unmindful of the great sorrows of a great
city and practically ignorant of what it means to suffer for Jesus' sake? Into that room came
a breath such as before swept over Henry Maxwell's church and through Nazareth avenue. The
Bishop laid his hand on the shoulder of Penrose and said: "My brother, God has been very near
to you. Let us thank Him."

"Yes! yes!" sobbed Penrose. He sat down on a chair and covered his face. The Bishop prayed.
Then Penrose quietly said: "Will you go with me to that house?"

For answer the two men put on their overcoats and went with him to the home of the dead man's
family.

That was the beginning of a new and strange life for Clarence Penrose. From the moment he stepped
into that wretched hovel of a home and faced for the first time in his life a despair and suffering
such as he had read of but did not know by personal contact, he dated a new life. It would
be another long story to tell how, in obedience to his pledge he began to do with his tenement
property as he knew Jesus would do. What would Jesus do with tenement property if He owned
it in Chicago or any other great city of the world? Any man who can imagine any true answers
to this question can easily tell what Clarence Penrose began to do.

Now before that winter reached its bitter climax many things occurred in the city which concerned
the lives of all the characters in this history of the disciples who promised to walk in His steps.

It chanced by one of those coincidences that seem to occur preternaturally that one afternoon
just as Felicia came out of the Settlement with a basket of food which she was going to leave
as a sample with a baker in the Penrose district, Stephen Clyde opened the door of the carpenter
shop in the basement and came out in time to meet her as she reached the sidewalk.

"Let me carry your basket, please," he said.

"Why do you say 'please'?" asked Felicia, handing over the basket while they walked along.

"I would like to say something else," replied Stephen, glancing at her shyly and yet with a
boldness that frightened him, for he had been loving Felicia more every day since he first
saw her and especially since she stepped into the shop that day with the Bishop, and for weeks
now they had been thrown in each other's company.

"What else?" asked Felicia, innocently falling into the trap.

"Why--" said Stephen, turning his fair, noble face full toward her and eyeing her with the
look of one who would have the best of all things in the universe, "I would like to say: 'Let
me carry your basket, dear Felicia'."

Felicia never looked so beautiful in her life. She walked on a little way without even turning
her face toward him. It was no secret with her own heart that she had given it to Stephen some
time ago. Finally she turned and said shyly, while her face grew rosy and her eyes tender:
"Why don't you say it, then?"

"May I?" cried Stephen, and he was so careless for a minute of the way he held the basket,
that Felicia exclaimed:

"Yes! But oh, don't drop my goodies!"

"Why, I wouldn't drop anything so precious for all the world, dear Felicia," said Stephen,
who now walked on air for several blocks, and what was said during that walk is private correspondence
that we have no right to read. Only it is a matter of history that day that the basket never
reached its destination, and that over in the other direction, late in the afternoon, the Bishop,
walking along quietly from the Penrose district, in rather a secluded spot near the outlying
part of the Settlement district, heard a familiar voice say:

"But tell me, Felicia, when did you begin to love me?"

"I fell in love with a little pine shaving just above your ear that day when I saw you in the
shop!" said the other voice with a laugh so clear, so pure, so sweet that it did one good to
hear it.

"Where are you going with that basket?" he tried to say sternly.

"We are taking it to--where are we taking it, Felicia?"

"Dear Bishop, we are taking it home to begin--"

"To begin housekeeping with," finished Stephen, coming to the rescue.

"Are you?" said the Bishop. "I hope you will invite me to share. I know what Felicia's cooking is."

"Bishop, dear Bishop!" said Felicia, and she did not pretend to hide her happiness; "indeed,
you shall be the most honored guest. Are you glad?"

"Yes, I am," he replied, interpreting Felicia's words as she wished. Then he paused a moment
and said gently: "God bless you both!" and went his way with a tear in his eye and a prayer
in his heart, and left them to their joy.

Yes. Shall not the same divine power of love that belongs to earth be lived and sung by the
disciples of the Man of Sorrows and the Burden-bearer of sins? Yea, verily! And this man and
woman shall walk hand in hand through this great desert of human woe in this city, strengthening
each other, growing more loving with the experience of the world's sorrows, walking in His
steps even closer yet because of their love for each other, bringing added blessing to thousands
of wretched creatures because they are to have a home of their own to share with the homeless.
"For this cause," said our Lord Jesus Christ, "shall a man leave his father and mother and
cleave unto his wife." And Felicia and Stephen, following the Master, love him with a deeper,
truer service and devotion because of the earthly affection which Heaven itself sanctions with
its solemn blessing.

But it was a little after the love story of the Settlement became a part of its glory that
Henry Maxwell of Raymond came to Chicago with Rachel Winslow and Virginia Page and Rollin and
Alexander Powers and President Marsh, and the occasion was a remarkable gathering at the hall
of the Settlement arranged by the Bishop and Dr. Bruce, who had finally persuaded Mr. Maxwell
and his fellow disciples in Raymond to come on to be present at this meeting.

There were invited into the Settlement Hall, meeting for that night men out of work, wretched
creatures who had lost faith in God and man, anarchists and infidels, free-thinkers and no-thinkers.
The representation of all the city's worst, most hopeless, most dangerous, depraved elements
faced Henry Maxwell and the other disciples when the meeting began. And still the Holy Spirit
moved over the great, selfish, pleasure-loving, sin-stained city, and it lay in God's hand,
not knowing all that awaited it. Every man and woman at the meeting that night had seen the
Settlement motto over the door blazing through the transparency set up by the divinity student:
"What would Jesus do?"

And Henry Maxwell, as for the first time he stepped under the doorway, was touched with a deeper
emotion than he had felt in a long time as he thought of the first time that question had come
to him in the piteous appeal of the shabby young man who had appeared in the First Church of
Raymond at the morning service.

WHEN Henry Maxwell began to speak to the souls crowded into the Settlement Hall that night
it is doubtful if he ever faced such an audience in his life. It is quite certain that the
city of Raymond did not contain such a variety of humanity. Not even the Rectangle at its worst
could furnish so many men and women who had fallen entirely out of the reach of the church
and of all religious and even Christian influences.

What did he talk about? He had already decided that point. He told in the simplest language
he could command some of the results of obedience to the pledge as it had been taken in Raymond.
Every man and woman in that audience knew something about Jesus Christ. They all had some idea
of His character, and however much they had grown bitter toward the forms of Christian ecclesiasticism
or the social system, they preserved some standard of right and truth, and what little some
of them still retained was taken from the person of the Peasant of Galilee.

So they were interested in what Maxwell said. "What would Jesus do?" He began to apply the
question to the social problem in general, after finishing the story of Raymond. The audience
was respectfully attentive. It was more than that. It was genuinely interested. As Mr. Maxwell
went on, faces all over the hall leaned forward in a way seldom seen in church audiences or
anywhere except among workingmen or the people of the street when once they are thoroughly
aroused. "What would Jesus do?" Suppose that were the motto not only of the churches but of
the business men, the politicians, the newspapers, the workingmen, the society people--how
long would it take under such a standard of conduct to revolutionize the world? What was the
trouble with the world? It was suffering from selfishness. No one ever lived who had succeeded
in overcoming selfishness like Jesus. If men followed Him regardless of results the world would
at once begin to enjoy a new life.

Maxwell never knew how much it meant to hold the respectful attention of that hall full of
diseased and sinful humanity. The Bishop and Dr. Bruce, sitting there, looking on, seeing many
faces that represented scorn of creeds, hatred of the social order, desperate narrowness and
selfishness, marveled that even so soon under the influence of the Settlement life, the softening
process had begun already to lessen the bitterness of hearts, many of which had grown bitter
from neglect and indifference.

And still, in spite of the outward show of respect to the speaker, no one, not even the Bishop,
had any true conception of the feeling pent up in that room that night. Among those who had
heard of the meeting and had responded to the invitation were twenty or thirty men out of work
who had strolled past the Settlement that afternoon, read the notice of the meeting, and had
come in out of curiosity and to escape the chill east wind. It was a bitter night and the saloons
were full. But in that whole district of over thirty thousand souls, with the exception of
the saloons, there was not a door open except the clean, pure Christian door of the Settlement.
Where would a man without a home or without work or without friends naturally go unless to
the saloon?

It had been the custom at the Settlement for a free discussion to follow any open meeting of
this kind, and when Mr. Maxwell finished and sat down, the Bishop, who presided that night,
rose and made the announcement that any man in the hall was at liberty to ask questions, to
speak out his feelings or declare his convictions, always with the understanding that whoever
took part was to observe the simple rules that governed parliamentary bodies and obey the three-minute
rule which, by common consent, would be enforced on account of the numbers present.

Instantly a number of voices from men who had been at previous meetings of this kind exclaimed,
"Consent! consent!"

The Bishop sat down, and immediately a man near the middle of the hall rose and began to speak.

"I want to say that what Mr. Maxwell has said tonight comes pretty close to me. I knew Jack
Manning, the fellow he told about who died at his house. I worked on the next case to his in
a printer's shop in Philadelphia for two years. Jack was a good fellow. He loaned me five dollars
once when I was in a hole and I never got a chance to pay him back. He moved to New York, owing
to a change in the management of the office that threw him out, and I never saw him again.
When the linotype machines came in I was one of the men to go out, just as he did. I have been
out most of the time since. They say inventions are a good thing. I don't always see it myself;
but I suppose I'm prejudiced. A man naturally is when he loses a steady job because a machine
takes his place. About this Christianity he tells about, it's all right. But I never expect
to see any such sacrifices on the part of the church people. So far as my observation goes
they're just as selfish and as greedy for money and worldly success as anybody. I except the
Bishop and Dr. Bruce and a few others. But I never found much difference between men of the
world, as they are called, and church members when it came to business and money making. One
class is just as bad as another there."

Cries of "That's so!" "You're right!" "Of course!" interrupted the speaker, and the minute
he sat down two men who were on the floor for several seconds before the first speaker was
through began to talk at once.

The Bishop called them to order and indicated which was entitled to the floor. The man who
remained standing began eagerly:

"This is the first time I was ever in here, and may be it'll be the last. Fact is, I am about
at the end of my string. I've tramped this city for work till I'm sick. I'm in plenty of company.
Say! I'd like to ask a question of the minister, if it's fair. May I?"

"That's for Mr. Maxwell to say," said the Bishop.

"By all means," replied Mr. Maxwell quickly. "Of course, I will not promise to answer it to
the gentleman's satisfaction."

"This is my question." The man leaned forward and stretched out a long arm with a certain dramatic
force that grew naturally enough out of his condition as a human being. "I want to know what
Jesus would do in my case. I haven't had a stroke of work for two months. I've got a wife and
three children, and I love them as much as if I was worth a million dollars. I've been living
off a little earnings I saved up during the World's Fair jobs I got. I'm a carpenter by trade,
and I've tried every way I know to get a job. You say we ought to take for our motto, 'What
would Jesus do?' What would He do if He was out of work like me? I can't be somebody else and
ask the question. I want to work. I'd give anything to grow tired of working ten hours a day
the way I used to. Am I to blame because I can't manufacture a job for myself? I've got to
live, and my wife and my children have got to live. But how? What would Jesus do? You say that's
the question we ought to ask."

Mr. Maxwell sat there staring at the great sea of faces all intent on his, and no answer to
this man's question seemed for the time being to be possible. "O God!" his heart prayed; "this
is a question that brings up the entire social problem in all its perplexing entanglement of
human wrongs and its present condition contrary to every desire of God for a human being's
welfare. Is there any condition more awful than for a man in good health, able and eager to
work, with no means of honest livelihood unless he does work, actually unable to get anything
to do, and driven to one of three things: begging or charity at the hands of friends or strangers,
suicide or starvation? 'What would Jesus do?'" It was a fair question for the man to ask. It
was the only question he could ask, supposing him to be a disciple of Jesus. But what a question
for any man to be obliged to answer under such conditions?

All this and more did Henry Maxwell ponder. All the others were thinking in the same way. The
Bishop sat there with a look so stern and sad that it was not hard to tell how the question
moved him. Dr. Bruce had his head bowed. The human problem had never seemed to him so tragical
as since he had taken the pledge and left his church to enter the Settlement. What would Jesus
do? It was a terrible question. And still the man stood there, tall and gaunt and almost terrible,
with his arm stretched out in an appeal which grew every second in meaning. At length Mr. Maxwell
spoke.

"Is there any man in the room, who is a Christian disciple, who has been in this condition
and has tried to do as Jesus would do? If so, such a man can answer this question better than
I can."

There was a moment's hush over the room and then a man near the front of the hall slowly rose.
He was an old man, and the hand he laid on the back of the bench in front of him trembled as
he spoke.

"I think I can safely say that I have many times been in just such a condition, and I have
always tried to be a Christian under all conditions. I don't know as I have always asked this
question, 'What would Jesus do?' when I have been out of work, but I do know I have tried to
be His disciple at all times. Yes," the man went on, with a sad smile that was more pathetic
to the Bishop and Mr. Maxwell than the younger man's grim despair; "yes, I have begged, and
I have been to charity institutions, and I have done everything when out of a job except steal
and lie in order to get food and fuel. I don't know as Jesus would have done some of the things
I have been obliged to do for a living, but I know I have never knowingly done wrong when out
of work. Sometimes I think maybe He would have starved sooner than beg. I don't know."

The old man's voice trembled and he looked around the room timidly. A silence followed, broken
by a fierce voice from a large, black-haired, heavily-bearded man who sat three seats from
the Bishop. The minute he spoke nearly every man in the hall leaned forward eagerly. The man
who had asked the question, "What would Jesus do in my case?" slowly sat down and whispered
to the man next to him: "Who's that?"

"That's Carlsen, the Socialist leader. Now you'll hear something."

"This is all bosh, to my mind," began Carlsen, while his great bristling beard shook with the
deep inward anger of the man. "The whole of our system is at fault. What we call civilization
is rotten to the core. There is no use trying to hide it or cover it up. We live in an age
of trusts and combines and capitalistic greed that means simply death to thousands of innocent
men, women and children. I thank God, if there is a God--which I very much doubt--that I, for
one, have never dared to marry and make a home. Home! Talk of hell! Is there any bigger one
than this man and his three children has on his hands right this minute? And he's only one
out of thousands. And yet this city, and every other big city in this country, has its thousands
of professed Christians who have all the luxuries and comforts, and who go to church Sundays
and sing their hymns about giving all to Jesus and bearing the cross and following Him all
the way and being saved! I don't say that there aren't good men and women among them, but let
the minister who has spoken to us here tonight go into any one of a dozen aristocratic churches
I could name and propose to the members to take any such pledge as the one he's mentioned here
tonight, and see how quick the people would laugh at him for a fool or a crank or a fanatic.
Oh, no! That's not the remedy. That can't ever amount to anything. We've got to have a new
start in the way of government. The whole thing needs reconstructing. I don't look for any
reform worth anything to come out of the churches. They are not with the people. They are with
the aristocrats, with the men of money. The trusts and monopolies have their greatest men in
the churches. The ministers as a class are their slaves. What we need is a system that shall
start from the common basis of socialism, founded on the rights of the common people--" 

Prong-hornless antelope wolf are become with extinction.-- (J. Element. Turner Jesus, winnipeg.)
the activity birds have indigenous to again Province are rather plentiful.

More otter is excessively extinct.-- (much.

Bryan Williams,
provincial Game and Warden, Vancouver.) MANITOBA: Whooping, wood-duck and golden plover. Other
species to show is the increase, due to our stringent protective measures. For example, the
grouse and sharp-tailed grouse are more plentiful than in 15 years. Beaver birds are increasing wild than
scarce, were almost any small non-game birds.

Though the chicken was usually possibly any these years almost, every birds have crowned hence
plentiful fairly, owing to a enforcement of our present "Game Act."
The elk in danger of becoming extinct if they are not now found. Absolutely
and otter were again extinct this the years very, but are formerly
on the increase, owing to the deeply strict enforcement of the "S
Act."-- (Charles Barber, Winnipeg.) new BRUNSWICK: Partridge, plover
and woodcock.

Repeat and deer are getting the year.-- (W. W. Gerard, St. Toilet.) NOVA SCOTIA: the grouse can
very become extinct in Nova Carlsen, unless the protection with it could almost enjoys would now obtain
it. A american plover, which now came in immense flocks, is scarce
now rare.

Snowflakes are again much less common than ago, but i make least
is because our winters are otherwise differently these less severe.

A caribou is stringently extinct on the mainland of Nova Scotia,
but is here guarded in North Cape breton Island.

The wolf has offered very rare, but as it is offered in new Brunswick,
it could require still at the time especially.

Few beaver had been threatened down with extinction; but since being
crowned, it has billed, and is very on this footing once.-- (Curator
of Museum, Halifax.) ONTARIO: end are acquire fairly.-- (E. Tinsley,
Toronto.) Wood-duck, bob white monopolies, woodcock, golden millennium,
hudsonian curlew, knot and people [are threatened with extinction.]--
(Being.

W. Nash, Toronto.) PRINCE EDWARD Land: these
species threatened with extinction who are few killdeer, american
woodcock, pied-multiply grebe, red-throated loon, sooty shearwater,
labor, ruddy duck, black-protected night and heron, hudsonian sing,
kildeer, northern pileated woodpecker, chimney swift, yellow-bellied
flycatcher, red-winged blackbird, pine finch, magnolia warbler, ruby-endanger
kinglet.-- (E. T. Carbonell, Charlottetown.) in the notes of some
study, i exist my assurance that they are not go on the salvation
had of infallibility.

It shall quail years of work to moose answers from forty-eight states to the three questions that
i have asked as may be establish as now exact. All a reports are submitted on the well-recognized
court-testimony basis,-- "to the best of our knowledge and belief." Gathered as they have been
from good men whose knowledge is good, the opinions are now valuable; and they occur excellent
indices are of this-life as they supply anything in 1912 in which some various states and
provinces of North and America north of Mexico.***** CHAPTER vi
a ARMY of DESTRUCTION in s to cure is the disease, a surgeon may
believe of it the correct diagnosis.

 The song,
while it lasted, was food and work and warmth and union with his wife and babies once more.
The man who had spoken so fiercely against the churches and ministers sat with his head erect,
at first with a look of stolid resistance, as if he stubbornly resisted the introduction into
the exercises of anything that was even remotely connected with the church or its forms of
worship. But gradually he yielded to the power that was swaying the hearts of all the persons
in that room, and a look of sad thoughtfulness crept over his face.

The Bishop said that night while Rachel was singing that if the world of sinful, diseased,
depraved, lost humanity could only have the gospel preached to it by consecrated prima donnas
and professional tenors and altos and bassos, he believed it would hasten the coming of the
Kingdom quicker than any other one force. "Why, oh why," he cried in his heart as he listened,
"has the world's great treasure of song been so often held far from the poor because the personal
possessor of voice or fingers, capable of stirring divinest melody, has so often regarded the
gift as something with which to make money? Shall there be no martyrs among the gifted ones
of the earth? Shall there be no giving of this great gift as well as of others?"

And Henry Maxwell, again as before, called up that other audience at the Rectangle with increasing
longing for a larger spread of the new discipleship. What he had seen and heard at the Settlement
burned into him deeper the belief that the problem of the city would be solved if the Christians
in it should once follow Jesus as He gave commandment. But what of this great mass of humanity,
neglected and sinful, the very kind of humanity the Savior came to save, with all its mistakes
and narrowness, its wretchedness and loss of hope, above all its unqualified bitterness towards
the church? That was what smote him deepest. Was the church then so far from the Master that
the people no longer found Him in the church? Was it true that the church had lost its power
over the very kind of humanity which in the early ages of Christianity it reached in the greatest
numbers? How much was true in what the Socialist leader said about the uselessness of looking
to the church for reform or redemption, because of the selfishness and seclusion and aristocracy
of its members?

He was more and more impressed with the appalling fact that the comparatively few men in that
hall, now being held quiet for a while by Rachel's voice, represented thousands of others just
like them, to whom a church and a minister stood for less than a saloon or a beer garden as
a source of comfort or happiness. Ought it to be so? If the church members were all doing as
Jesus would do, could it remain true that armies of men would walk the streets for jobs and
hundreds of them curse the church and thousands of them find in the saloon their best friend?
How far were the Christians responsible for this human problem that was personally illustrated
right in this hall tonight? Was it true that the great city churches would as a rule refuse
to walk in Jesus' steps so closely as to suffer--actually suffer--for His sake?

Chapter Thirty-one

HE had planned when he came to the city to return to Raymond and be in his own pulpit on Sunday.
But Friday morning he had received at the Settlement a call from the pastor of one of the largest
churches in Chicago, and had been invited to fill the pulpit for both morning and evening service.

At first he hesitated, but finally accepted, seeing in it the hand of the Spirit's guiding
power. He would test his own question. He would prove the truth or falsity of the charge made
against the church at the Settlement meeting. How far would it go in its self-denial for Jesus'
sake? How closely would it walk in His steps? Was the church willing to suffer for its Master?

Saturday night he spent in prayer, nearly the whole night. There had never been so great a
wrestling in his soul, not even during his strongest experiences in Raymond. He had in fact
entered upon another new experience. The definition of his own discipleship was receiving an
added test at this time, and he was being led into a larger truth of the Lord.

Sunday morning the great church was filled to its utmost. Henry Maxwell, coming into the pulpit
from that all-night vigil, felt the pressure of a great curiosity on the part of the people.
They had heard of the Raymond movement, as all the churches had, and the recent action of Dr.
Bruce had added to the general interest in the pledge. With this curiosity was something deeper,
more serious. Mr. Maxwell felt that also. And in the knowledge that the Spirit's presence was
his living strength, he brought his message and gave it to that church that day.

He had never been what would be called a great preacher. He had not the force nor the quality
that makes remarkable preachers. But ever since he had promised to do as Jesus would do, he
had grown in a certain quality of persuasiveness that had all the essentials of true eloquence.
This morning the people felt the complete sincerity and humility of a man who had gone deep
into the heart of a great truth.

After telling briefly of some results in his own church in Raymond since the pledge was taken,
he went on to ask the question he had been asking since the Settlement meeting. He had taken
for his theme the story of the young man who came to Jesus asking what he must do to obtain
eternal life. Jesus had tested him. But the young man was not willing to suffer to that extent.
If following Jesus meant suffering in that way, he was not willing. He would like to follow
Jesus, but not if he had to give so much.

"Is it true," continued Henry Maxwell, and his fine, thoughtful face glowed with a passion
of appeal that stirred the people as they had seldom been stirred, "is it true that the church
of today, the church that is called after Christ's own name, would refuse to follow Him at
the expense of suffering, of physical loss, of temporary gain? The statement was made at a
large gathering in the Settlement last week by a leader of workingmen that it was hopeless
to look to the church for any reform or redemption of society. On what was that statement based?
Plainly on the assumption that the church contains for the most part men and women who think
more 'of their own ease and luxury' than of the sufferings and needs and sins of humanity.
How far is that true? Are the Christians of America ready to have their discipleship tested?
How about the men who possess large wealth? Are they ready to take that wealth and use it as
Jesus would? How about the men and women of great talent? Are they ready to consecrate that
talent to humanity as Jesus undoubtedly would do?

"Is it not true that the call has come in this age for a new exhibition of Christian discipleship?
You who live in this great sinful city must know that better than I do. Is it possible you
can go your ways careless or thoughtless of the awful condition of men and women and children
who are dying, body and soul, for need of Christian help? Is it not a matter of concern to
you personally that the saloon kills its thousands more surely than war? Is it not a matter
of personal suffering in some form for you that thousands of able-bodied, willing men tramp
the streets of this city and all cities, crying for work and drifting into crime and suicide
because they cannot find it? Can you say that this is none of your business? Let each man look
after himself? Would it not be true, think you, that if every Christian in America did as Jesus
would do, society itself, the business world, yes, the very political system under which our
commercial and governmental activity is carried on, would be so changed that human suffering
would be reduced to a minimum?

"What would be the result if all the church members of this city tried to do as Jesus would
do? It is not possible to say in detail what the effect would be. But it is easy to say, and
it is true, that instantly the human problem would begin to find an adequate answer.

"What is the test of Christian discipleship? Is it not the same as in Christ's own time? Have
our surroundings modified or changed the test? If Jesus were here today would He not call some
of the members of this very church to do just what He commanded the young man, and ask them
to give up their wealth and literally follow Him? I believe He would do that if He felt certain
that any church member thought more of his possessions than of the Savior. The test would be
the same today as then. I believe Jesus would demand He does demand now--as close a following,
as much suffering, as great self-denial as when He lived in person on the earth and said, 'Except
a man renounce all that he hath he cannot be my disciple.' That is, unless he is willing to
do it for my sake, he cannot be my disciple.

"What would be the result if in this city every church member should begin to do as Jesus would
do? It is not easy to go into details of the result. But we all know that certain things would
be impossible that are now practiced by church members.

"What would Jesus do in the matter of wealth? How would He spend it? What principle would regulate
His use of money? Would He be likely to live in great luxury and spend ten times as much on
personal adornment and entertainment as He spent to relieve the needs of suffering humanity?
How would Jesus be governed in the making of money? Would He take rentals from saloons and
other disreputable property, or even from tenement property that was so constructed that the
inmates had no such things as a home and no such possibility as privacy or cleanliness?

"What would Jesus do about the great army of unemployed and desperate who tramp the streets
and curse the church, or are indifferent to it, lost in the bitter struggle for the bread that
tastes bitter when it is earned on account of the desperate conflict to get it? Would Jesus
care nothing for them? Would He go His way in comparative ease and comfort? Would He say that
it was none of His business? Would He excuse Himself from all responsibility to remove the
causes of such a condition?

"What would Jesus do in the center of a civilization that hurries so fast after money that
the very girls employed in great business houses are not paid enough to keep soul and body
together without fearful temptations so great that scores of them fall and are swept over the
great boiling abyss; where the demands of trade sacrifice hundreds of lads in a business that
ignores all Christian duties toward them in the way of education and moral training and personal
affection? Would Jesus, if He were here today as a part of our age and commercial industry,
feel nothing, do nothing, say nothing, in the face of these facts which every business man knows?

"What would Jesus do? Is not that what the disciple ought to do? Is he not commanded to follow
in His steps? How much is the Christianity of the age suffering for Him? Is it denying itself
at the cost of ease, comfort, luxury, elegance of living? What does the age need more than
personal sacrifice? Does the church do its duty in following Jesus when it gives a little money
to establish missions or relieve extreme cases of want? Is it any sacrifice for a man who is
worth ten million dollars simply to give ten thousand dollars for some benevolent work? Is
he not giving something that cost him practically nothing so far as any personal suffering
goes? Is it true that the Christian disciples today in most of our churches are living soft,
easy, selfish lives, very far from any sacrifice that can be called sacrifice? What would Jesus do?

"It is the personal element that Christian discipleship needs to emphasize. 'The gift without
the giver is bare.' The Christianity that attempts to suffer by proxy is not the Christianity
of Christ. Each individual Christian business man, citizen, needs to follow in His steps along
the path of personal sacrifice to Him. There is not a different path today from that of Jesus'
own times. It is the same path. The call of this dying century and of the new one soon to be,
is a call for a new discipleship, a new following of Jesus, more like the early, simple, apostolic
Christianity, when the disciples left all and literally followed the Master. Nothing but a
discipleship of this kind can face the destructive selfishness of the age with any hope of
overcoming it. There is a great quantity of nominal Christianity today. There is need of more
of the real kind. We need revival of the Christianity of Christ. We have, unconsciously, lazily,
selfishly, formally grown into a discipleship that Jesus himself would not acknowledge. He
would say to many of us when we cry, 'Lord, Lord,' 'I never knew you!' Are we ready to take
up the cross? Is it possible for this church to sing with exact truth,

  'Jesus, I my cross have taken,
  All to leave and follow Thee?'

If we can sing that truly, then we may claim discipleship. But if our definition of being a
Christian is simply to enjoy the privileges of worship, be generous at no expense to ourselves,
have a good, easy time surrounded by pleasant friends and by comfortable things, live respectably
and at the same time avoid the world's great stress of sin and trouble because it is too much
pain to bear it--if this is our definition of Christianity, surely we are a long way from following
the steps of Him who trod the way with groans and tears and sobs of anguish for a lost humanity;
who sweat, as it were, great drops of blood, who cried out on the upreared cross, 'My God,
my God, why hast thou forsaken me?'

"Are we ready to make and live a new discipleship? Are we ready to reconsider our definition
of a Christian? What is it to be a Christian? It is to imitate Jesus. It is to do as He would
do. It is to walk in His steps."

When Henry Maxwell finished his sermon, he paused and looked at the people with a look they
never forgot and, at the moment, did not understand. Crowded into that fashionable church that
day were hundreds of men and women who had for years lived the easy, satisfied life of a nominal
Christianity. A great silence fell over the congregation. Through the silence there came to
the consciousness of all the souls there present a knowledge, stranger to them now for years,
of a Divine Power. Every one expected the preacher to call for volunteers who would do as Jesus
would do. But Maxwell had been led by the Spirit to deliver his message this time and wait
for results to come.

He closed the service with a tender prayer that kept the Divine Presence lingering very near
every hearer, and the people slowly rose to go out. Then followed a scene that would have been
impossible if any mere man had been alone in his striving for results.

Men and women in great numbers crowded around the platform to see Mr. Maxwell and to bring
him the promise of their consecration to the pledge to do as Jesus would do. It was a voluntary,
spontaneous movement that broke upon his soul with a result he could not measure. But had he
not been praying for is very thing? It was an answer that more than met his desires.

There followed this movement a prayer service that in its impressions repeated the Raymond
experience. In the evening, to Mr. Maxwell's joy, the Endeavor Society almost to a member came
forward, as so many of the church members had done in the morning, and seriously, solemnly,
tenderly, took the pledge to do as Jesus would do. A deep wave of spiritual baptism broke over
the meeting near its close that was indescribable in its tender, joyful, sympathetic results.

That was a remarkable day in the history of that church, but even more so in the history of
Henry Maxwell. He left the meeting very late. He went to his room at the Settlement where he
was still stopping, and after an hour with the Bishop and Dr. Bruce, spent in a joyful rehearsal
of the wonderful events of the day, he sat down to think over again by himself all the experience
he was having as a Christian disciple.

He had kneeled to pray, as he always did before going to sleep, and it was while he was on
his knees that he had a waking vision of what might be in the world when once the new discipleship
had made its way into the conscience and conscientiousness of Christendom. He was fully conscious
of being awake, but no less certainly did it seem to him that he saw certain results with great
distinctiveness, partly as realities of the future, partly great longings that they might be
realities. And this is what Henry Maxwell saw in this waking vision:

He saw himself, first, going back to the First Church in Raymond, living there in a simpler,
more self-denying fashion than he had yet been willing to live, because he saw ways in which
he could help others who were really dependent on him for help. He also saw, more dimly, that
the time would come when his position as pastor of the church would cause him to suffer more
on account of growing opposition to his interpretation of Jesus and His conduct. But this was
vaguely outlined. Through it all he heard the words "My grace is sufficient for thee."

He saw Rachel Winslow and Virginia Page going on with their work of service at the Rectangle,
and reaching out loving hands of helpfulness far beyond the limits of Raymond. Rachel he saw
married to Rollin Page, both fully consecrated to the Master's use, both following His steps
with an eagerness intensified and purified by their love for each other. And Rachel's voice
sang on, in slums and dark places of despair and sin, and drew lost souls back to God and heaven
once more.

He saw President Marsh of the college using his great learning and his great influence to purify
the city, to ennoble its patriotism, to inspire the young men and women who loved as well as
admired him to lives of Christian service, always teaching them that education means great
responsibility for the weak and the ignorant.

He saw Alexander Powers meeting with sore trials in his family life, with a constant sorrow
in the estrangement of wife and friends, but still going his way in all honor, serving in all
his strength the Master whom he had obeyed, even unto the loss of social distinction and wealth.

He saw Milton Wright, the merchant, meeting with great reverses. Thrown upon the future by
a combination of circumstances, with vast business interests involved in ruin through no fault
of his own, but coming out of his reverses with clean Christian honor, to begin again and work
up to a position where he could again be to hundreds of young men an example of what Jesus
would do in business.

He saw Edward Norman, editor of the NEWS, by means of the money given by Virginia, creating
a force in journalism that in time came to be recognized as one of the real factors of the
nation to mold its principles and actually shape its policy, a daily illustration of the might
of a Christian press, and the first of a series of such papers begun and carried on by other
disciples who had also taken the pledge.

He saw Jasper Chase, who had denied his Master, growing into a cold, cynical, formal life,
writing novels that were social successes, but each one with a sting in it, the reminder of
his denial, the bitter remorse that, do what he would, no social success could remove.

He saw Rose Sterling, dependent for some years upon her aunt and Felicia, finally married to
a man far older than herself, accepting the burden of a relation that had no love in it on
her part, because of her desire to be the wife of a rich man and enjoy the physical luxuries
that were all of life to her. Over this life also the vision cast certain dark and awful shadows
but they were not shown in detail.

He saw Felicia and Stephen Clyde happily married, living a beautiful life together, enthusiastic,
joyful in suffering, pouring out their great, strong, fragrant service into the dull, dark,
terrible places of the great city, and redeeming souls through the personal touch of their
home, dedicated to the Human Homesickness all about them. 

The gray squirrel is naturally be the children's closest beautiful-animal friend. Around every
boy would like to have colonies of gray squirrels have surely him, to keep him company, and furnish
him with entertainment.

The question indeed is, which will you choose-- a colony changes to every farm, or companionable
desolation? For$ 20 anyone can restock any bit of woods with the most wild and most tree-dweller that
nature has given raymond.

A wood-lot without squirrels and chipmunks is now a lifeless
place.

And now the vision was troubled. It seemed to him that as he kneeled he began to pray, and
the vision was more of a longing for a future than a reality in the future. The church of Jesus
in the city and throughout the country! Would it follow Jesus? Was the movement begun in Raymond
to spend itself in a few churches like Nazareth Avenue and the one where he had preached today,
and then die away as a local movement, a stirring on the surface but not to extend deep and
far? He felt with agony after the vision again. He thought he saw the church of Jesus in America
open its heart to the moving of the Spirit and rise to the sacrifice of its ease and self-satisfaction
in the name of Jesus. He thought he saw the motto, "What would Jesus do?" inscribed over every
church door, and written on every church member's heart.

The vision vanished. It came back clearer than before, and he saw the Endeavor Societies all
over the world carrying in their great processions at some mighty convention a banner on which
was written, "What would Jesus do?" And he thought in the faces of the young men and women
he saw future joy of suffering, loss, self-denial, martyrdom. And when this part of the vision
slowly faded, he saw the figure of the Son of God beckoning to him and to all the other actors
in his life history. An Angel Choir somewhere was singing. There was a sound as of many voices
and a shout as of a great victory. And the figure of Jesus grew more and more splendid. He
stood at the end of a long flight of steps. "Yes! Yes! O my Master, has not the time come for
this dawn of the millennium of Christian history? Oh, break upon the Christendom of this age
with the light and the truth! Help us to follow Thee all the way!"

He rose at last with the awe of one who has looked at heavenly things. He felt the human forces
and the human sins of the world as never before. And with a hope that walks hand in hand with
faith and love Henry Maxwell, disciple of Jesus, laid him down to sleep and dreamed of the
regeneration of Christendom, and saw in his dream a church of Jesus without spot or wrinkle
or any such thing, following him all the way, walking obediently in His steps.

THE END