As resistance was worse than useless, I complied, and soon found my poor feet aching with the
cold on the bare stone floor. I was soon made to feel the blessing of St. Francis with a vengeance.
My sufferings were indescribable. It seemed as though ten thousand bees had stung me in every
part. I never closed my eyes for several nights. I laid on my coarse straw and groaned and
sighed for death to come and relieve me of my anguish. As soon as the holy wax candle was left
with me I took it in my hand and went forth to survey my dungeon; but I did not enjoy my ramble.
In one of the cells, I found my Tuscan friend--that dear Christian sister--in great agony,
having had on the accursed garment for several days. Her body was one entire blister, and very
much inflamed. Her bones were racked with pain, as with the most excruciating inflammatory
rheumatism. We recognized each other; she pointed to heaven as if to say 'trust in the Lord,
my sister, our sufferings will soon be over.' I kissed my hand to her and returned again to
my cell. I saw other victims half dead and emaciated that made my heart sick. I refrained from
speaking to any one for I feared my condition, wretched as it was, might be rendered even worse,
if possible by the fiends who had entire power over me. "O my God!" said I to myself, "why
was I born? O give my soul patience to suffer every pain."

On the fourth day of my imprisonment the jailor brought me some water and soap, a towel, brush
and comb, and the same clothes I wore when I entered the foul den. They told me to make haste
and prepare myself to appear before the holy Bishop. Hope revived in my soul, for I always
thought that my god-father had some regard for me, and had now come to release me from the
foul den I was in. Cold water seemed to afford much relief to my tortured body. I made my toilet
as quick as I could in such a place. My feet were so numb and swollen that it was difficult
for me to get my shoes on. At last the Bishop arrived as I supposed, and I was conducted--not
into his presence as I expected, but into that of my bitterest enemy, the confessor. At the
very sight of the monster, I trembled like a reed shaken by the wind. The priest walked to
each of the doors, locked them, put the keys into a small writing desk, locked it, took out
the key and placed it carefully in his sleeve pocket. This he did to assure me that we were
alone, that not one of the inmates could by any means disturb for the present the holy meditations
of the priest. He bade me take a seat on the sofa by him. In kind soft words he said to me,
that if I was only docile and obedient, he would cause me to be treated like a princess, and
that in a short time I should have my liberty if I preferred to return to the world. At the
same time he attempted to put his arm around my waist. In a moment I was on my feet. While
he was talking love to me, I was looking at two large alabaster vases full of beautiful wax
flowers; one of them was as much as I could lift. Without one thought about consequences, I
seized the nearest vase and threw it with all the strength I had at the priest's head. He fell
like a log and uttered one or two groans. The vase was broken. It struck the priest on the
right temple, close to the ear. For a moment I listened to see if any one were coming. I then
looked at the priest, and saw the blood running out of his wound. I quaked with fear lest I
had killed the destroyer of my peace. I did not intend to kill him, I only wished to stun him,
that I might take the keys, open the door and run, for the back door of the priest's room led
right into a back path where the gates were frequently opened daring the day time. This was
about twelve o'clock, and a most favorable moment for me to escape. In a moment I had searched
the sleeve pocket of the priest, found the key and a heavy purse of gold which I secured in
my dress pocket. I opened the little writing desk and took out the key to the back door. I
saw that the priest was not dead, and I had not the least doubt from appearances, but that
he would soon come to. I trembled for fear he might wake before I could get away. I thought
of my dear Tuscan sister in her wretched cell, but I could not get to her without being discovered.
There was no time to be lost. I opened the door with the greatest facility and gained the opening
into the back path. I locked the door after me, and brought the key with me for a short distance,
then placed all the keys tinder a rock. I had no hat but only a black veil. I threw that over
my head after the fashion of Italy and gained the outer gate. There were masons at work near
the gate which was open and I passed through into the street without being questioned by any one.

As I had not a nun's dress on, no one supposed I belonged to the Institution. I walked down
directly to the sea coast. I could speak a few English words which I had learned from some
English friends of my father. Before I got to where the boats lay I saw a gentleman whom I
took to be an English or American gentleman. He had a pleasant face, looked at me very kindly,
saw my pale dejected face and at once felt a deep sympathy for me. As I appeared to be in trouble
and needed help, he extended his hand to me and said in tolerable good Italian, "Como va' le'
signorina?" that is "How do you do young lady?" I asked him what was his country. "Me," said
he, "Americano, Americano, capitano de Bastimento." (American captain of a ship.) "Signor Capitano,"
said I, "I wish to go on board your ship and see an American ship." "Well," said he, "with
a great deal of pleasure; my ship lies at anchor, my men are waiting; you shall dine with me,
Signorina."

I praised God in my soul for this merciful providence of meeting a friend, though a stranger,
whose face seemed to me so honest and so true. Any condition, even honest slavery, would have
been preferred by me at that time to a convent. The American ship was the most beautiful thing
I ever saw afloat; splendid and neat in all her cabin arrangements. The mates were polite,
and the sailors appeared neat and happy. Even the black cook showed his beautiful white teeth,
as though he was glad to see one of the ladies of Italy. Poor fellows! Little did they know
at that time what peril I was in should I be found out and taken back to my dungeon again.
I informed the captain of my situation, of having just escaped from a convent into which I
had been forced against my will. I told him I would pay him my passage to America, if he would
hide me somewhere until the ship was well out to sea. He said I had come just in time, for
he was only waiting for a fair wind, and hoped to be off that evening. "I have," said he, "a
large number of bread-casks on board, and two are empty. I shall have you put into one of these,
in which I shall make augur-holes, so that you can have plenty of fresh air. Down in the hold
amongst the provisions you will be safe." I thanked my kind friend and requested him to buy
me some needles, silk, and cotton thread, and some stuff for a couple of dresses, and one-piece
of fine cotton, so that I might make myself comfortable during the voyage.

After I ate my dinner, the men called the captain and said there were several boats full of
soldiers coming to the ship, accompanied by the priests. "Lady," exclaimed the captain, "they
are after you. There is not a moment to be lost. Follow me," he continued. "And, Mr. Smith,
tell the men to be careful and not make known that there is a lady on board."

An awful cold chill ran over me. I followed my friend quickly, and soon found myself coiled
in a large cask. The captain coopered the head, which was missing, and made holes for me to
get the air; but the perspiration ran off my face in a stream. Lots of things were piled on
the cask, so that I had hard work to breathe; but such was my fear of the priests that I would
rather have perished in the cask than be returned to die by inches.

The captain had been gone but a short time when I heard steps on deck, and much noise and confusion.
As the hatches were open, I could hear very distinctly. After the whole company were on deck,
the captain invited the priests and friars, about twenty in number, to walk down to the cabin,
and explain the cause of their visit. They talked through an interpreter, and said that "a
woman of bad character had robbed one of the churches of a large amount of gold, had attempted
to murder one of the holy priests, but they were happy to say that the holy father, though
badly wounded, was in a fair way of recovery. This woman is young, but very desperate, has
awful raving fits, and has recently escaped from a lunatic institution. When her fits of madness
come on they are obliged to put her into a straight jacket, for she is the most dangerous person
in Italy. A great reward is offered for her by her father and the government--five thousand
scudi. Is not this enough to tempt one to help find her? She was seen coming towards the shipping,
and we want the privilege of searching your ship."

"Gentlemen," said the captain, "I do not know that the Italian authorities have any right to
search an American ship, under the stars and stripes of the United States, for we do not allow
even the greatest naval power on earth to do that thing. But if such a mad and dangerous woman
as you have described should by any means have smuggled herself on board my ship, you are quite
welcome to take her away as soon as possible, for I should be afraid of my life if I was within
one hundred yards of such an unfortunate creature. If you can get her into your lunatic asylum,
the quicker the better; and the five thousand scudi will come in good time, for I am thinking
of building me a larger ship on my return home. Now, gentlemen, come; I will assist you, for
I should like to see the gold in my pocket." The captain opened all his closets and secret
places, in the cabin and forecastle and in the hold; everything was searched, all but the identical
bread-cask in which I was snugly coiled.

After something like half an hour's search, the soldiers of King Ferdinand and the priests
of King Pope left the ship, satisfied that the crazy nun was not on board; for, judging the
captain by themselves, they thought he certainly would have given up a mad woman for the sake
of five thousand scudi in gold, and for the safety of his own peace and comfort. A few moments
after the Pope's friends had left, the excellent benevolent captain came down, and speedily
and gently knocking off a few hoops with a hammer, took the head out, and I was free once more
to breathe God's free air. I lifted my trembling heart in thanksgiving, while tears of gratitude
rolled down my cheeks. Yet, as we were still within the reach of the guns of the papal forts,
my heart was by no means at rest. But the good captain assured me repeatedly that all danger
was past, for he had twenty-five men on board, all true Protestants, and he declared that all
the priests of Naples would walk over their dead bodies before they should reach his vessel
a second time. "And besides," said the captain, "there are two American men-of-war in port,
who will stand up for the rights of Americans. They have not yet forgotten Captain Ingraham,
of the United States ship St. Louis, and his rescue from the Austrian papists of the Hungarian
patriot, Martin Kozsta." The captain wisely refused to purchase any needles or thread for me
on shore, or any articles of ladies' dress, for fear of the Jesuitical spies, who might surmise
something and cause further trouble. But he kindly furnished me with some goods he had purchased
for his own wife, and there were needles and silk enough on board, so that I soon cut and made
a few articles that made me very comfortable during our voyage of thirty-two days to London.

Early the next morning we sailed out of the beautiful harbor of Naples, with a fair wind. The
beautiful ship seemed to fly over the blue sea. I staid on deck gazing at my native city as
long as I could. I thought then of my once happy home, of my poor, broken-hearted mother, of
my unhappy father. Although he had cast me off through the foul play of Jesuitical intrigue,
my love for my dear father remained the same. "Farewell, my dear Italy," I said to myself.
"When, my poor native land, wilt thou be happy? Never, never, so long as the Pope lives, and
his wicked, murderous priests, to curse thee by their power."

After we got out into the open sea, the motion of the ship made me feel very sick, and I was
so starved out before I came on board, that what good provisions I ate on board did not seem
to agree with me. My stomach was in a very bad state, for while I was in the lower regions
of the convent I ate only a small quantity of very stale hard bread once in twenty-four hours,
at the ringing of the vesper bells every evening, and the water given me was that in which
the holy Mother Abbess had washed her sacred feet. But I must give the holy mother credit for
one good omission--she did not use any soap.

The captain gave me a good state-room which I occupied with an English lady passenger. This
good lady was accustomed to the sea, therefore, she did not suffer any inconvenience from sea-sickness;
but I was very sick, so that I kept my berth for five days. This good Protestant lady was very
kind and attentive during the whole passage, and kindly assisted me in getting my garments
made up on board. On our arrival in London, the captain said that he would sail for America
in two weeks time, and very kindly offered me a free passage to his happy, native land; and
I could not persuade him to take any money for my passage from Naples, nor for the clothing
he had given me.

My fellow passenger being wealthy, and well acquainted with people in England, took me to her
splendid home, a few miles from London. At her residence I was introduced to a young French
gentleman, a member of the Evangelical protestant church in France, and a descendant of the
pious persecuted Huguenots. This gentleman speaks good English and Italian, having enjoyed
the privilege of a superior education. His fervent prayers at the family altar morning and
evening made a very deep impression on my mind. He became deeply interested in my history,
and offered to take me to France, after I should become his lawful wife.

Though I did not like the idea of choosing another popish country for my residence, yet as
my friend assured me that I should enjoy my protestant religion unmolested, I gave him my hand
and my heart. My lady fellow passenger was my bridesmaid. We were married by a good protestant
minister. My husband is a wealthy merchant--gives me means and opportunities for doing good.
Home is precious in a foreign land. Our home is one of piety and peace and happiness. The blessed
Bible is read by us every day. Morning and evening we sing God's praise, and call upon the
name of the Lord. Our prayer is that God may deliver beloved France and Italy from the curse
of popery.

Another proof of the persecuting spirit of Rome is furnished by the "Narrative of Raffaele
Ciocci, formerly a Benedictine Monk, but who now 'comes forth from Inquisitorial search and
torture, and tells us what he has seen, heard and felt.'" We can make but a few extracts from
this interesting little volume, published by the American and Foreign Christian Union, who,--to
use their own language--"send it forth as a voice of instruction and warning to the American
people. Let the facts be heard and read. They are not to be set aside by an apology for the
dark ages, nor an appeal to the refinement of the nineteenth century. Here is Rome, not as
she WAS in the midnight of the world, but as she IS at the present moment. There is the same
opposition to private judgment --the same coercive measures--the same cruel persecution-- the
same efforts to crush the civil and religious liberties of her own subjects, for which she
has ever been characterized."

Ciocci, compelled at an early age to enter the Catholic College--forced, notwithstanding his
deep disgust and earnest remonstrance, to become a monk--imprisoned-- deceived--the victim
of priestly artifice and fraud, at length becomes a Christian. He is of course thrown into
a deeper dungeon; and more exquisite anguish inflicted upon him that he may be constrained
to return to the Romish faith. Of his imprisonment he says, "We traversed long corridors till
we arrived at the door of an apartment which they requested me to enter, and they themselves
retired. On opening the door I found myself in a close dark room, barely large enough for the
little furniture it contained, which consisted of a small hard bed, hard as the conscience
of an inquisitor, a little table cut all over, and a dirty ill-used chair. The window which
was shut and barred with iron resisted all my efforts to open it My heart sunk within me, and
I began to cogitate on the destiny in store for me." The Jesuit Giuliani entering his room,
he asked that the window might be opened for the admission of light and air. Before the words
were finished he exclaimed in a voice of thunder, "How! wretched youth, thou complainest of
the dark, whilst thou art living in the clouds of error? Dost thou desire the light of heaven,
while thou rejectest the light of the Catholic faith?"

Ciocci saw that remonstrance was useless, but he reminded his jailer that he had been sent
there for three days, to receive instruction, not to be treated as a criminal.

"For three days," he resumed, counterfeiting my tone of voice, "for three days! That would
be nothing. The dainty youth will not forsooth, be roughly treated; it remains to be seen whether
he desires to be courteously entertained. Be converted, be converted, condemned soul! Fortunate
is it for thee that thou art come to this place. THOU WILT NEVER quit it excepting with the
real fruits of repentance! Among these silent shades canst thou meditate at thy leisure upon
the deplorable state into which thou hast fallen. Woe unto thee, if thou refusest to listen
to the voice of God, who conducts souls into solitude that he may speak with them." "So saying,"
he continues, "he abruptly left me. I remained alone drooping under the weight of a misfortune,
which was the more severe, because totally unexpected. I stood, I know not how long, in the
same position, but on recovering from this lethargy, my first idea was of flight. But this
thought was at once abandoned. There was no possibility of flight. Without giving a minute
account of the manner in which I passed my wearisome days and nights in this prison, let it
suffice to say that they were spent in listening to sermons preached to me four times a day
by the fathers Giuliani and Rossini, and in the most gloomy reflections.

"In the mean time the miseries I endured were aggravated by the heat of the season, the wretchedness
of the chamber, scantiness of food, and the rough severity of those by whom I was occasionally
visited. Uncertainty as to when this imprisonment would be at an end, almost drove me wild,
and the first words I addressed to those who approached me were, 'Have the kindness to tell
me when I shall be permitted to leave this place?' One replied, 'My son, think of hell.' I
interrogated another; the answer was, 'Think my son, how terrible is the death of the sinner!'
I spoke to a third, to a fourth, and one said to me, 'My son, what will be your feeling, if,
on the day of judgment you find yourself on the left hand of God?' the other, 'Paradise, my
son, Paradise!' No one gave me a direct answer; their object appeared to be to mistify and
confound me. After the first few days, I began to feel most severely the want of a change of
clothing. Accustomed to cleanliness, I found myself constrained to wear soiled apparel. * *
* For the want of a comb, my hair became rough and entangled. After the fourth day my portion
of food was diminished; a sign, that they were pressing the siege, that it was their intention
to adopt both assault and blockade--to conquer me by arms, or induce me to capitulate through
hunger. I had been shut up in this wretched place for thirteen days, when, one day, about noon,
the Father Mislei, the author of all my misery, entered my cell.

