Moreover during this spring of 1916 Petrograd, against my knowledge, wove webs about my feet.
I had never shared the common belief that Moscow was the only town in Russia. I had always
known that Petrograd had its own grace and beauty, but it was not until, sore and sick at heart,
lonely and bitter against fate, haunted always by the face and laughter of one whom I would
never see again, I wandered about the canals and quays and deserted byways of the city that
I began to understand its spirit. I took, to the derision of my few friends, two tumbledown
rooms on Pilot's Island, at the far end of Ekateringofsky Prospect. Here amongst tangled grass,
old, deserted boats, stranded, ruined cottages and abraided piers, I hung above the sea. Not
indeed the sea of my Glebeshire memories; this was a sluggish, tideless sea, but in the winter
one sheet of ice, stretching far beyond the barrier of the eye, catching into its frosted heart
every colour of the sky and air, the lights of the town, the lamps of imprisoned barges, the
moon, the sun, the stars, the purple sunsets, and the strange, mysterious lights that flash
from the shadows of the hovering snow-clouds. My rooms were desolate perhaps, bare boards with
holes, an old cracked mirror, a stove, a bookcase, a photograph, and a sketch of Rafiel Cove.
My friends looked and shivered; I, staring from my window on to the entrance into the waterways
of the city, felt that any magic might come out of that strange desolation and silence. A shadow
like the sweeping of the wing of a great bird would hover above the ice; a bell from some boat
would ring, then the church bells of the city would answer it; the shadow would pass and the
moon would rise, deep gold, and lie hard and sharp against the thick, impending air; the shadow
would pass and the stars come out, breaking with an almost audible crackle through the stuff
of the sky... and only five minutes away the shop-lights were glittering, the Isvostchicks
crying to clear the road, the tram-bells clanging, the boys shouting the news. Around and about
me marvellous silence....

In the early autumn of 1916 I met at a dinner-party Nicolai Leontievitch Markovitch. In the
course of a conversation I informed him that I had been for a year with the Ninth Army in Galicia,
and he then asked me whether I had met his wife's uncle Alexei Petrovitch Semyonov, who was
also with the Ninth Army. It happened that I had known Alexei Petrovitch very well and the
sound of his name brought back to me so vividly events and persons with whom we had both been
connected that I had difficulty in controlling my sudden emotion. Markovitch invited me to
his house. He lived, he told me, with his wife in a flat in the Anglisky Prospect; his sister-in-law
and another of his wife's uncles, a brother of Alexei Petrovitch, also lived with them. I said
that I would be very glad to come.

It is impossible to describe how deeply, in the days that followed, I struggled against the
attraction that this invitation presented to me. I had succeeded during all these months in
avoiding any contact with the incidents or characters of the preceding year. I had written
no letters and had received none; I had resolutely avoided meeting any members of my old Atriad
when they came to the town.

But now I succumbed. Perhaps something of my old vitality and curiosity was already creeping
back into my bones, perhaps time was already dimming my memories--at any rate, on an evening
early in October I paid my call. Alexei Petrovitch was not present; he was on the Galician
front, in Tarnople. I found Markovitch, his wife Vera Michailovna, his sister-in-law Nina Michailovna,
his wife's uncle Ivan Petrovitch and a young man Boris Nicolaievitch Grogoff. Markovitch himself
was a thin, loose, untidy man with pale yellow hair thinning on top, a ragged, pale beard,
a nose with a tendency to redden at any sudden insult or unkind word and an expression perpetually
anxious.

Vera Michailovna on the other hand was a fine young woman and it must have been the first thought
of all who met them as to why she had married him. She gave an impression of great strength;
her figure tall and her bosom full, her dark eyes large and clear. She had black hair, a vast
quantity of it, piled upon her head. Her face was finely moulded, her lips strong, red, sharply
marked. She looked like a woman who had already made up her mind upon all things in life and
could face them all. Her expression was often stern and almost insolently scornful, but also
she could be tender, and her heart would shine from her eyes. She moved slowly and gracefully,
and quite without self-consciousness.

A strange contrast was her sister, Nina Michailovna, a girl still, it seemed, in childhood,
pretty, with brown hair, laughing eyes, and a trembling mouth that seemed ever on the edge
of laughter. Her body was soft and plump; she had lovely hands, of which she was obviously
very proud. Vera dressed sternly, often in black, with a soft white collar, almost like a nurse
or nun. Nina was always in gay colours; she wore clothes, as it seemed to me, in very bad taste,
colours clashing, strange bows and ribbons and lace that had nothing to do with the dress to
which they were attached. She was always eating sweets, laughed a great deal, had a shrill
piercing voice, and was never still. Ivan Petrovitch, the uncle, was very different from my
Semyonov. He was short, fat, and dressed with great neatness and taste. He had a short black
moustache, a head nearly bald, and a round chubby face with small smiling eyes. He was a Chinovnik,
and held his position in some Government office with great pride and solemnity. It was his
chief aim, I found, to be considered cosmopolitan, and when he discovered the feeble quality
of my French he insisted in speaking always to me in his strange confused English, a language
quite of his own, with sudden startling phrases which he had "snatched" as he expressed it
from Shakespeare and the Bible. He was the kindest soul alive, and all he asked was that he
should be left alone and that no one should quarrel with him. He confided to me that he hated
quarrels, and that it was an eternal sorrow to him that the Russian people should enjoy so
greatly that pastime. I discovered that he was terrified of his brother, Alexei, and at that
I was not surprised. His weakness was that he was inpenetrably stupid, and it was quite impossible
to make him understand anything that was not immediately in line with his own experiences--unusual
obtuseness in a Russian. He was vain about his clothes, especially about his shoes, which he
had always made in London; he was sentimental and very easily hurt.

Very different again was the young man Boris Nicolaievitch Grogoff. No relation of the family,
he seemed to spend most of his time in the Markovitch flat. A handsome young man, strongly
built, with a head of untidy curly yellow hair, blue eyes, high cheek bones, long hands with
which he was for ever gesticulating. Grogoff was an internationalist Socialist and expressed
his opinions at the top of his voice whenever he could find an occasion. He would sit for hours
staring moodily at the floor, or glaring fiercely upon the company. Then suddenly he would
burst out, walking about, flinging up his arms, shouting. I saw at once that Markovitch did
not like him and that he despised Markovitch. He did not seem to me a very wise young man,
but I liked his energy, his kindness, sudden generosities, and honesty. I could not see his
reason for being so much in this company.

During the autumn of 1916 I spent more and more time with the Markovitches. I cannot tell you
what was exactly the reason. Vera Michailovna perhaps, although let no one imagine that I fell
in love with her or ever thought of doing so. No, my time for that was over. But I felt from
the first that she was a fine, understanding creature, that she sympathised with me without
pitying me, that she would be a good and loyal friend, and that I, on my side could give her
comprehension and fidelity. They made me feel at home with them; there had been as yet no house
in Petrograd whither I could go easily and without ceremony, which I could leave at any moment
that I wished. Soon they did not notice whether I were there or no; they continued their ordinary
lives and Nina, to whom I was old, plain, and feeble, treated me with a friendly indifference
that did not hurt as it might have done in England. Boris Grogoff patronised and laughed at
me, but would give me anything in the way of help, property, or opinions, did I need it. I
was in fact by Christmas time a member of the family. They nicknamed me "Durdles," after many
jokes about my surname and reminiscences of "Edwin Drood" (my Russian name was Ivan Andreievitch).
We had merry times in spite of the troubles and distresses now crowding upon Russia.

And now I come to the first of the links in my story. It was with this family that Henry Bohun
was to lodge.

VII

Some three years before, when Ivan Petrovitch had gone to live with the Markovitches, it had
occurred to them that they had two empty rooms and that these would accommodate one or two
paying guests. It seemed to them still more attractive that these guests should be English,
and I expect that it was Ivan Petrovitch who emphasised this. The British Consulate was asked
to assist them, and after a few inconspicuous clerks and young business men they entertained
for a whole six months the Hon. Charles Trafford, one of the junior secretaries at the Embassy.
At the end of those six months the Hon. Charles, burdened with debt, and weakened by little
sleep and much liquor, was removed to a less exciting atmosphere. With all his faults, he left
faithful friends in the Markovitch flat, and he, on his side, gave so enthusiastic an account
of Mme. Markovitch's attempts to restrain and modify his impetuosities that the Embassy recommended
her care and guidance to other young secretaries. The war came and Vera Michailovna declared
that she could have lodgers no longer, and a terrible blow this was to Ivan Petrovitch. Then
suddenly, towards the end of 1916, she changed her mind and announced to the Embassy that she
was ready for any one whom they could send her. Henry Bohun was offered, accepted, and prepared
for. Ivan Petrovitch was a happy man once more.

I never discovered that Markovitch was much consulted in these affairs. Vera Michailovna "ran"
the flat financially, industrially, and spiritually. Markovitch meanwhile was busy with his
inventions. I have, as yet, said nothing about Nicolai Leontievitch's inventions. I hesitate,
indeed, to speak of them, although they are so essential, and indeed important a part of my
story. I hesitate simply because I do not wish this narrative to be at all fantastic, but that
it should stick quite honestly and obviously to the truth. It is certain moreover that what
is naked truth to one man seems the falsest fancy to another, and after all I have, from beginning
to end, only my own conscience to satisfy. The history of the human soul and its relation to
divinity which is, I think, the only history worth any man's pursuit must push its way, again
and again, through this same tangled territory which infests the region lying between truth
and fantasy; one passes suddenly into a world that seems pure falsehood, so askew, so obscure,
so twisted and coloured is it. One is through, one looks back and it lies behind one as the
clearest truth. Such an experience makes one tender to other men's fancies and less impatient
of the vague and half-defined travellers' tales that other men tell. Childe Roland is not the
only traveller who has challenged the Dark Tower.

In the Middle Ages Nicolai Leontievitch Markovitch would have been called, I suppose, a Magician--a
very half-hearted and unsatisfactory one he would always have been--and he would have been
most certainly burnt at the stake before he had accomplished any magic worthy of the name.
His inventions, so far as I saw anything of them, were innocent and simple enough. It was the
man himself rather than his inventions that arrested the attention. About the time of Bohun's
arrival upon the scene it was a new kind of ink that he had discovered, and for many weeks
the Markovitch flat dripped ink from every pore. He had no laboratory, no scientific materials,
nor, I think, any profound knowledge. The room where he worked was a small box-like place off
the living-room, a cheerless enough abode with a little high barred window in it as in a prison-cell,
cardboard-boxes piled high with feminine garments, a sewing-machine, old dusty books, and a
broken-down perambulator occupying most of the space. I never could understand why the perambulator
was there, as the Markovitches had no children. Nicolai Leontievitch sat at a table under the
little window, and his favourite position was to sit with the chair perched on one leg and
so, rocking in this insecure position, he brooded over his bottles and glasses and trays. This
room was so dark even in the middle of the day that he was often compelled to use a lamp. There
he hovered, with his ragged beard, his ink-stained fingers and his red-rimmed eyes, making
strange noises to himself and envolving from his materials continual little explosions that
caused him infinite satisfaction. He did not mind interruptions, nor did he ever complain of
the noise in the other room, terrific though it often was. He would be absorbed, in a trance,
lost in another world, and surely amiable and harmless enough. And yet not entirely amiable.
His eyes would close to little spots of dull, lifeless colour--the only thing alive about him
seemed to be his hands that moved and stirred as though they did not belong to his body at
all, but had an independent existence of their own--and his heels protruding from under his
chair were like horrid little animals waiting, malevolently, on guard.

His inventions were, of course, never successful, and he contributed, therefore, nothing to
the maintenance of his household. Vera Michailovna had means of her own, and there were also
the paying guests. But he suffered from no sense of distress at his impecuniosity. I discovered
very quickly that Vera Michailovna kept the family purse, and one of the earliest sources of
family trouble was, I fancy, his constant demands for money. Before the war he had, I believe,
been drunk whenever it was possible. Because drink was difficult to obtain, and in a flood
of patriotism roused by the enthusiasm of the early days of the war, he declared himself a
teetotaller, and marvellously he kept his vows. This abstinence was now one of his greatest
prides, and he liked to tell you about it. Nevertheless he needed money as badly as ever, and
he borrowed whenever he could. One of the first things that Vera Michailovna told me was that
I was on no account to open my purse to him. I was not always able to keep my promise.

On this particular evening of Bohun's arrival I came, by invitation, to supper. They had told
me about their Englishman, and had asked me indeed to help the first awkward half-hour over
the stile. It may seem strange that the British Embassy should have chosen so uncouth a host
as Nicolai Leontievitch for their innocent secretaries, but it was only the more enterprising
of the young men who preferred to live in a Russian family; most of them inhabited elegant
flats of their own, ornamented with coloured stuffs and gaily decorated cups and bright trays
from the Jews' Market, together with English comforts and luxuries dragged all the way from
London. Moreover, Markovitch figured very slightly in the consciousness of his guests, and
the rest of the flat was roomy and clean and light. It was, like most of the homes of the Russian
Intelligentzia over-burdened with family history. Amazing the things that Russians will gather
together and keep, one must suppose, only because they are too lethargic to do away with them.
On the walls of the Markovitch dining-room all kinds of pictures were hung--old family photographs
yellow and dusty, old calendars, prints of ships at sea, and young men hanging over stiles,
and old ladies having tea, photographs of the Kremlin and the Lavra at Kieff, copies of Ivan
and his murdered son and Serov's portrait of Chaliapine as Boris Godounov. Bookcases there
were with tattered editions of Pushkin and Lermontov. The middle of the living-room was occupied
with an enormous table covered by a dark red cloth, and this table was the centre of the life
of the family. A large clock wheezed and groaned against the wall, and various chairs of different
shapes and sizes filled up most of the remaining space. Nevertheless, although everything in
the room looked old except the white and gleaming stove, Vera Michailovna spread over the place
the impress of her strong and active personality. It was not a sluggish room, nor was it untidy
as so many Russian rooms are. Around the table everybody sat. It seemed that at all hours of
the day and night some kind of meal was in progress there; and it was almost certain that from
half-past two in the afternoon until half-past two on the following morning the samovar would
be found there, presiding with sleepy dignity over the whole family and caring nothing for
anybody. I can smell now that especial smell of tea and radishes and salted fish, and can hear
the wheeze of the clock, the hum of the samovar, Nina's shrill laugh and Boris's deep voice....
I owe that room a great deal. It was there that I was taken out of myself and memories that
fared no better for their perpetual resurrection. That room called me back to life.

On this evening there was to be, in honour of young Bohun, an especially fine dinner. A message
had come from him that he would appear with his boxes at half-past seven. When I arrived Vera
was busy in the kitchen, and Nina adding in her bedroom extra ribbons and laces to her costume;
Boris Nicolaievitch was not present; Nicolai Leontievitch was working in his den.

I went through to him. He did not look up as I came in. The room was darker than usual; the
green shade over the lamp was tilted wickedly as though it were cocking its eye at Markovitch's
vain hopes, and there was the man himself, one cheek a ghastly green, his hair on end and his
chair precariously balanced.

I heard him say as though he repeated an incantation--"Nu Vot... Nu Vot... Nu Vot."

"Zdras te, Nicolai Leontievitch," I said. Then I did not disturb him but sat down on a rickety
chair and waited. Ink dripped from his table on to the floor. One bottle lay on its side, the
ink oozing out, other bottles stood, some filled, some half-filled, some empty.

"Ah, ha!" he cried, and there was a little explosion; a cork spurted out and struck the ceiling;
there was smoke and the crackling of glass. He turned round and faced me, a smudge of ink on
one of his cheeks, and that customary nervous unhappy smile on his lips.

"Well, how goes it?" I asked.

"Well enough." He touched his cheek then sucked his fingers. "I must wash. We have a guest
to-night. And the news, what's the latest?"

He always asked me this question, having apparently the firm conviction that an Englishman
must know more about the war than a man of any other nationality. But he didn't pause for an
answer--"News--but of course there is none. What can you expect from this Russia of ours?--and
the rest--it's all too far away for any of us to know anything about it--only Germany's close
at hand. Yes. Remember that. You forget it sometimes in England. She's very near indeed....
We've got a guest coming--from the English Embassy. His name's Boon and a funny name too. You
don't know him, do you?"

No, I didn't know him. I laughed. Why should he think that I always knew everybody, I who kept
to myself so?

"The English always stick together. That's more than can be said for us Russians. We're a rotten
lot. Well, I must go and wash."

Then, whether by a sudden chance of light and shade, or if you like to have it, by a sudden
revelation on the part of a beneficent Providence, he really did look malevolent, standing
in the middle of the dirty little room, malevolent and pathetic too, like a cross, sick bird.

"Vera's got a good dinner ready. That's one thing, Ivan Andreievitch," he said; "and vodka--a
little bottle. We got it from a friend. But I don't drink now, you know."

He went off and I, going into the other room, found Vera Michailovna giving last touches to
the table. I sat and watched with pleasure her calm assured movements. She really was splendid,
I thought, with the fine carriage of her head, her large mild eyes, her firm strong hands.

"All ready for the guest, Vera Michailovna?" I asked.

"Yes," she answered, smiling at me, "I hope so. He won't be very particular, will he, because
we aren't princes?"

"I can't answer for him," I replied, smiling back at her. "But he can't be more particular
than the Hon. Charles--and he was a great success."

The Hon. Charles was a standing legend in the family, and we always laughed when we mentioned him.

"I don't know"--she stopped her work at the table and stood, her hand up to her brow as though
she would shade her eyes from the light--"I wish he wasn't coming--the new Englishman, I mean.
Better perhaps as we were--Nicholas--" she stopped short. "Oh, I don't know! They're difficult
times, Ivan Andreievitch."

The door opened and old Uncle Ivan came in. He was dressed very smartly with a clean white
shirt and a black bow tie and black patent leather shoes, and his round face shone as the sun.

"Ah, Mr. Durward," he said, trotting forward. "Good health to you! What excellent weather we're
sharing."

"So we are, M. Semyonov," I answered him. "Although it did rain most of yesterday you know.
But weather of the soul perhaps you mean? In that case I'm very glad to hear that you are well."

"Ah--of the soul?" He always spoke his words very carefully, clipping and completing them,
and then standing back to look at them as though they were china ornaments arranged on a shining
table. "No--my soul to-day is not of the first rank, I'm afraid."

It was obvious that he was in a state of the very greatest excitement; he could not keep still,
but walked up and down beside the long table, fingering the knives and forks.

Then Nina burst in upon us in one of her frantic rages. Her tempers were famous both for their
ferocity and the swiftness of their passing. In the course of them she was like some impassioned
bird of brilliant plumages, tossing her feathers, fluttering behind the bars of her cage at
some impertinent, teasing passer-by. She stood there now in the doorway, gesticulating with
her hands.

"Nu, Tznaiesh schto? Michael Alexandrovitch has put me off--says he is busy all night at the
office. He busy all night! Don't I know the business he's after? And it's the third time--I
won't see him again--no, I won't. He--"

"Good-evening, Nina Michailovna," I said, smiling. She turned to me.

"Durdles--Mr. Durdles--only listen. It was all arranged for to-night--the Parisian, and then
we were to come straight back--"

"But your guest--" I began.

However the torrent continued. The door opened and Boris Grogoff came in. Instantly she turned
upon him.

"There's your fine friend!" she cried; "Michael Alexandrovitch isn't coming. Put me off at
the last moment, and it's the third time. And I might have gone to Musikalnaya Drama. I was
asked by--"

"Well, why not?" Grogoff interrupted calmly. "If he had something better to do--"

Then she turned upon him, screaming, and in a moment they were at it, tooth and nail, heaping
up old scores, producing fact after fact to prove, the one to the other, false friendship,
lying manners, deceitful promises, perjured records. Vera tried to interrupt, Markovitch said
something, I began a remonstrance--in a moment we were all at it, and the room was a whirl
of noise. In the tempest it was only I who heard the door open. I turned and saw Henry Bohun
standing there.

I smile now when I think of that moment of his arrival, go fitting to the characters of the
place, so appropriate a symbol of what was to come. Bohun was beautifully dressed, spotlessly
neat, in a bowler hat a little to one side, a light-blue silk scarf, a dark-blue overcoat.
His face wore an expression of dignified self-appreciation. It was as though he stood there
breathing blessings on the house that he had sanctified by his arrival. He looked, too, with
it all, such a boy that my heart was touched. And there was something good and honest about
his eyes.

He may have spoken, but certainly no one heard him in the confusion.

I just caught Nina's shrill voice: "Listen all of you! There you are! You hear what he says!
That I told him it was to be Tuesday when, everybody knows--Verotchka! Ah--Verotchka! He says--"
Then she paused; I caught her amazed glance at the door, her gasp, a scream of stifled laughter,
and behold she was gone!

Then they all saw. There was instant silence, a terrible pause, and then Bohun's polite gentle
voice: "Is this where Mr. Markovitch lives? I beg your pardon--"

Great awkwardness followed. It is quite an illusion to suppose that Russians are easy, affable
hosts. I know of no people in the world who are so unable to put you at your ease if there
is something unfortunate in the air. They have few easy social graces, and they are inclined
to abandon at once a situation if it is made difficult for them. If it needs an effort to make
a guest happy they leave him alone and trust to a providence in whose powers, however, they
entirely disbelieve. Bohun was led to his room, his bags being carried by old Sacha, the Markovitch's
servant, and the Dvornik.

His bags, I remember, were very splendid, and I saw the eyes of Uncle Ivan grow large as he
watched their progress. Then with a sigh he drew a chair up to the table and began eating zakuska,
putting salt-fish and radishes and sausage on to his place and eating them with a fork.

"Dyadya, Ivan!" Vera said reproachfully. "Not yet--we haven't begun. Ivan Andreievitch, what
do you think? Will he want hot water?"

She hurried after him.

The evening thus unfortunately begun was not happily continued. There was a blight upon us
all. I did my best, but I was in considerable pain and very tired. Moreover, I was not favourably
impressed with my first sight of young Bohun. He seemed to me foolish and conceited. Uncle
Ivan was afraid of him. He made only one attack.

"It was a very fruitful journey that you had, sir, I hope?"

"I beg your pardon," said Bohun.

"A very fruitful journey--nothing burdensome nor extravagant?"

"Oh, all right, thanks," Bohun answered, trying unsuccessfully to show that he was not surprised
at my friend's choice of words. But Uncle Ivan saw that he had not been successful and his
lip trembled. Markovitch was silent and Boris Nicolaievitch sulked. Only once towards the end
of the meal Bohun interested me.

"I wonder," he asked me, "whether you know a fellow called Lawrence? He travelled from England
with me. A man who's played a lot of football."

"Not Jerry Lawrence, the international!" I said. "Surely he can't have come out here?" Of course
it was the same. I was interested and strangely pleased. The thought of Lawrence's square back
and cheery smile was extremely agreeable just then.

"Oh! I'm very glad," I answered. "I must get him to come and see me. I knew him pretty well
at one time. Where's he to be found?"

Bohun, with an air of rather gentle surprise, as though he could not help thinking it strange
that any one should take an interest in Lawrence's movements, told me where he was lodging.

"And I hope you also will find your way to me sometime,"

I added. "It's an out-of-place grimy spot, I'm afraid. You might bring Lawrence round one evening."

Soon after that, feeling that I could do no more towards retrieving an evening definitely lost,
I departed. At the last I caught Markovitch's eye. He seemed to be watching for something.
A new invention perhaps. He was certainly an unhappy man.

VIII

I was to meet Jerry Lawrence sooner than I had expected. And it was in this way.

Two days after the evening that I have just described I was driven to go and see Vera Michailovna.
I was driven, partly by my curiosity, partly by my depression, and partly by my loneliness.
This same loneliness was, I believe, at this time beginning to affect us all. I should be considered
perhaps to be speaking with exaggeration if I were to borrow the title of one of Mrs. Oliphant's
old-fashioned and charming novels and to speak of Petrograd as already "A Beleaguered City"--beleaguered,
moreover, in very much the same sense as that other old city was. From the very beginning of
the war Petrograd was isolated--isolated not by the facts of the war, its geographical position
or any of the obvious causes, but simply by the contempt and hatred with which it was regarded.
From very old days it was spoken of as a German town. "If you want to know Russia don't go
to Petrograd." "Simply a cosmopolitan town like any other." "A smaller Berlin"--and so on,
and so on. This sense of outside contempt influenced its own attitude to the world. It was
always at war with Moscow. It showed you when you first arrived its Nevski, its ordered squares,
its official buildings as though it would say: "I suppose you will take the same view as the
rest. If you don't wish to look any deeper here you are. I'm not going to help you."

As the war developed it lost whatever gaiety and humour it had. After the fall of Warsaw the
attitude of the Russian people in general became fatalistic. Much nonsense was talked in the
foreign press about "Russia coming back again and again." "Russia, the harder she was pressed
the harder she resisted," and the ghost of Napoleon retreating from Moscow was presented to
every home in Europe; but the plain truth was that, after Warsaw, the temper of the people
changed. Things were going wrong once more as they had always gone wrong in Russian history,
and as they always would go wrong. Then followed bewilderment. What to do? Whose fault was
it all? Shall we blame our blood or our rulers? Our rulers, certainly, as we always, with justice,
have blamed them--our blood, too, perhaps. From the fall of Warsaw, in spite of momentary flashes
of splendour and courage, the Russians were a blindfolded, naked people, fighting a nation
fully armed. Now, Europe was vast continents away, and only Germany, that old Germany whose
soul was hateful, whose practical spirit was terribly admirable, was close at hand. The Russian
people turned hither and thither, first to its Czar, then to its generals, then to its democratic
spirit, then to its idealism--and there was no hope anywhere. They appealed for Liberty. In
the autumn of 1916 a great prayer from the whole country went up that the bandage might be
taken from its eyes, and soon, lest when the light did at last come the eyes should be so unused
to it that they should see nothing. Nicholas had his opportunity--the greatest opportunity
perhaps ever offered to man. He refused it. From that moment the easiest way was closed, and
only a most perilous rocky path remained.

With every week of that winter of 1916, Petrograd stepped deeper and deeper into the darkness.
Its strangeness grew and grew upon me as the days filed through. I wondered whether my illness
and the troubles of the preceding year made me see everything at an impossible angle--or it
was perhaps my isolated lodging, my crumbling rooms, with the grey expanse of sea and sky in
front of them that was responsible. Whatever it was, Petrograd soon came to be to me a place
with a most terrible secret life of its own.

There is an old poem of Pushkin's that Alexandre Benois has most marvellously illustrated,
which has for its theme the rising of the river Neva in November 1824. On that occasion the
splendid animal devoured the town, and in Pushkin's poem you feel the devastating power of
the beast, and in Benois' pictures you can see it licking its lips as it swallowed down pillars
and bridges and streets and squares with poor little fragments of humanity clutching and crying
and fruitlessly appealing.

This poem only emphasised for me the suspicion that I had originally had, that the great river
and the marshy swamp around it despised contemptuously the buildings that man had raised beside
and upon it, and that even the buildings in their turn despised the human beings who thronged
them. It could only be some sense of this kind that could make one so repeatedly conscious
that one's feet were treading ancient ground.

The town, raised all of a piece by Peter the Great, could claim no ancient history at all;
but through every stick and stone that had been laid there stirred the spirit and soul of the
ground, so that out of one of the sluggish canals one might expect at any moment to see the
horrid and scaly head of some palaeolithic monster with dead and greedy eyes slowly push its
way up that it might gaze at the little black hurrying atoms as they crossed and recrossed
the grey bridge. There are many places in Petrograd where life is utterly dead; where some
building, half-completed, has fallen into red and green decay; where the water lies still under
iridescent scum and thick clotted reeds seem to stand at bay, concealing in their depths some
terrible monster.

At such a spot I have often fancied that the eyes of countless inhabitants of that earlier
world are watching me, and that not far away the waters of Neva are gathering, gathering, gathering
their mighty momentum for some instant, when, with a great heave and swell, they will toss
the whole fabric of brick and mortar from their shoulders, flood the streets and squares, and
then sink tranquilly back into great sheets of unruffled waters marked only with reeds and
the sharp cry of some travelling bird.

All this may be fantastic enough, I only know that it was sufficiently real to me during that
winter of 1916 to be ever at the back of my mind; and I believe that some sense of that kind
had in all sober reality something to do with that strange weight of uneasy anticipation that
we all of us, yes, the most unimaginative amongst us, felt at this time.

Upon this afternoon when I went to pay my call on Vera Michailovna, the real snow began to
fall. We had had the false preliminary attempt a fortnight before; now in the quiet persistent
determination, the solid soft resilience beneath one's feet, and the patient aquiescence of
roofs and bridges and cobbles one knew that the real winter had come. Already, although it
was only four o'clock in the afternoon, there was darkness, with the strange almost metallic
glow as of the light from an inverted looking-glass that snow makes upon the air. I had not
far to go, but the long stretch of the Ekateringofsky Canal was black and gloomy and desolate,
repeating here and there the pale yellow reflection of some lamp, but for the most part dim
and dead, with the hulks of barges lying like sleeping monsters on its surface. As I turned
into Anglisky Prospect I found stretched like a black dado, far down the street, against the
wall, a queue of waiting women. They would be there until the early morning, many of them,
and it was possible that then the bread would not be sufficient. And this not from any real
lack, but simply from the mistakes of a bungling, peculating Government. No wonder that one's
heart was heavy.

I found Vera Michailovna to my relief alone. When Sacha brought me into the room she was doing
what I think I had never seen her do before, sitting unoccupied, her eyes staring in front
of her, her hands folded on her lap.

"I don't believe that I've ever caught you idle before, Vera Michailovna," I said.

"Oh, I'm glad you've come!" She caught my hand with an eagerness very different from her usual
calm, quiet greeting. "Sit down. It's an extraordinary thing. At that very moment I was wishing
for you."

"What is it I can do for you?" I asked. "You know that I would do anything for you."

"Yes, I know that you would. But--well. You can't help me because I don't know what's the matter
with me."

"That's very unlike you," I said.

"Yes, I know it is--and perhaps that's why I am frightened. It's so vague; and you know I long
ago determined that if I couldn't define a trouble and have it there in front of me, so that
I could strangle it--why I wouldn't bother about it. But those things are so easy to say."

She got up and began to walk up and down the room. That again was utterly unlike her, and altogether
I seemed to be seeing, this afternoon, some quite new Vera Michailovna, some one more intimate,
more personal, more appealing. I realised suddenly that she had never before, at any period
of our friendship, asked for my help--not even for my sympathy. She was so strong and reliant
and independent, cared so little for the opinion of others, and shut down so closely upon herself
her private life, that I could not have imagined her asking help from any one. And of the two
of us, she was the man, the strong determined soul, the brave and self-reliant character. It
seemed to me ludicrous that she should ask for my help. Nevertheless I was greatly touched.

"I would do anything for you," I said.

She turned to me, a splendid figure, her head, with its crown of black hair, lifted, her hands
on her hips, her eyes gravely regarding me.

"There are three things," she said, "perhaps all of them nothing.... And yet all of them disturbing.
First my husband. He's beginning to drink again."

"Drink?" I said; "where can he get it from?"

"I don't know. I must discover. But it isn't the actual drinking. Every one in our country
drinks if he can. Only what has made my husband break his resolve? He was so proud of it. You
know how proud he was. And he lies about it. He says he is not drinking. He never used to lie
about anything. That was not one of his faults."

"Perhaps his inventions," I suggested.

"Pouf! His inventions! You know better than that, Ivan Andreievitch. No, no. It is something....
He's not himself. Well, then, secondly, there's Nina. The other night did you notice anything?"

"Only that she lost her temper. But she's always doing that."

"No, it's more than that. She's unhappy, and I don't like the life she's leading. Always out
at cinematographs and theatres and restaurants, and with a lot of boys who mean no harm, I
know--but they're idiotic, they're no good.... Now, when the war's like this and the suffering....
To be always at the cinematograph! But I've lost my authority over her, Ivan Andreievitch.
She doesn't care any longer what I say to her. Once, and not so long ago, I meant so much to
her. She's changed, she's harder, more careless, more selfish. You know, Ivan Andreievitch,
that Nina's simply everything to me. I don't talk about myself, do I? but at least I can say
that since--oh, many, many years, she's been the whole world and more than the whole world
to me. Our mother and father were killed in a railway accident coming up from Odessa when Nina
was very small, and since then Nina's been mine--all mine!"

She said that word with sudden passion, flinging it at me with a fierce gesture of her hands.
"Do you know what it is to want that something should belong to you, belong entirely to you,
and to no one else? I've been too proud to say, but I've wanted that terribly all my life.
I haven't had children, although I prayed for them, and perhaps now it is as well. But Nina!
She's known she was mine, and, until now, she's loved to know it. But now she's escaping from
me, and she knows that too, and is ashamed. I think I could bear anything but that sense that
she herself has that she's being wrong--I hate her to be ashamed."

"Perhaps," I suggested, "it's time that she went out into the world now and worked. There are
a thousand things that a woman can do."

"No--not Nina. I've spoilt her, perhaps; I don't know. I always liked to feel that she needed
my help. I didn't want to make her too self-reliant. That was wrong of me, and I shall be punished
for it."

"Speak to her," I said. "She loves you so much that one word from you to her will be enough."

"No," Vera Michailovna said slowly. "It won't be enough now. A year ago, yes. But now she's
escaping as fast as she can."

"Perhaps she's in love with some one," I suggested.

"No. I should have seen at once if it had been that. I would rather it were that. I think she
would come back to me then. No, I suppose that this had to happen. I was foolish to think that
it would not. But it leaves one alone--it--"

She pulled herself up at that, regarding me with sudden shyness, as though she would forbid
me to hint that she had shown the slightest emotion, or made in any way an appeal for pity.

I was silent, then I said:

"And the third thing, Vera Michailovna?"

"Uncle Alexei is coming back." That startled me. I felt my heart give one frantic leap.

"Alexei Petrovitch!" I cried. "When? How soon?"

"I don't know. I've had a letter." She felt in her dress, found the letter and read it through.
"Soon, perhaps. He's leaving the Front for good. He's disgusted with it all, he says. He's
going to take up his Petrograd practice again."

"Will he live with you?"

"No. God forbid!"

She felt then, perhaps, that her cry had revealed more than she intended, because she smiled
and, trying to speak lightly, said:

"No. We're old enemies, my uncle and I. We don't get on. He thinks me sentimental, I think
him--but never mind what I think him. He has a bad effect on my husband."

"A bad effect?" I repeated.

"Yes. He irritates him. He laughs at his inventions, you know."

I nodded my head. Yes, with my earlier experience of him I could understand that he would do that.

"He's a cynical, embittered man," I said. "He believes in nothing and in nobody. And yet he
has his fine side--"

"No, he has no fine side," she interrupted me fiercely. "None. He is a bad man. I've known
him all my life, and I'm not to be deceived."

Then in a softer, quieter tone she continued:

"But tell me, Ivan Andreievitch. I've wanted before to ask you. You were with him on the Front
last year. We have heard that he had a great love affair there, and that the Sister whom he
loved was killed. Is that true?"

"Yes," I said, "that is true."

"Was he very much in love with her?"

"I believe terribly."

"And it hurt him deeply when she was killed?"

"Desperately deeply."

"But what kind of woman was she? What type? It's so strange to me. Uncle Alexei... with his
love affairs!"

I looked up, smiling. "She was your very opposite, Vera Michailovna, in everything. Like a
child--with no knowledge, no experience, no self-reliance--nothing. She was wonderful in her
ignorance and bravery. We all thought her wonderful."

"And she loved him?"

"Yes--she loved him."

"How strange! Perhaps there is some good in him somewhere. But to us at any rate he always
brings trouble. This affair may have changed him. They say he is very different. Worse perhaps--"

She broke out then into a cry:

"I want to get away, Ivan Andreievitch! To get away, to escape, to leave Russia and everything
in it behind me! To escape!"

It was just then that Sacha knocked on the door. She came in to say that there was an Englishman
in the hall inquiring for the other Englishman who had come yesterday, that he wanted to know
when he would be back.

"Perhaps I can help," I said. I went out into the hall and there I found Jerry Lawrence.

He stood there in the dusk of the little hall looking as resolute and unconcerned as an Englishman,
in a strange and uncertain world, is expected to look. Not that he ever considered the attitudes
fitting to adopt on certain occasions. He would tell you, if you inquired, that "he couldn't
stand those fellows who looked into every glass they passed." His brow wore now a simple and
innocent frown like that of a healthy baby presented for the first time with a strange and
alarming rattle. It was only later that I was to arrive at some faint conception of Lawrence's
marvellous acceptance of anything that might happen to turn up. Vice, cruelty, unsuspected
beauty, terror, remorse, hatred, and ignorance--he accepted them all once they were there in
front of him. He sometimes, as I shall on a later occasion, show, allowed himself a free expression
of his views in the company of those whom he could trust, but they were never the views of
a suspicious or a disappointed man. It was not that he had great faith in human nature. He
had, I think, very little. Nor was he without curiosity--far from it. But once a thing was
really there he wasted no time over exclamations as to the horror or beauty or abomination
of its actual presence. There was as he once explained to me, "precious little time to waste."
Those who thought him a dull, silent fellow--and they were many--made of course an almost ludicrous
mistake, but most people in life are, I take it, too deeply occupied with their own personal
history to do more than estimate at its surface value the appearance of others... but after
all such a dispensation makes, in all probability for the general happiness....

On this present occasion Jerry Lawrence stood there exactly as I had seen him stand many times
on the football field waiting for the referee's whistle, his thick short body held together,
his mouth shut and his eyes on guard. He did not at first recognise me.

"You've forgotten me," I said.

"I beg your pardon," he answered in his husky good-natured voice, like the rumble of an amiable
bull-dog.

"My name is Durward," I said, holding out my hand. "And years ago we had a mutual friend in
Olva Dune."

That pleased him. He gripped my hand very heartily and smiled a big ugly smile. "Why, yes,"
he said. "Of course. How are you? Feeling fit? Damned long ago all that, isn't it? Hope you're
really fit?"

"Oh, I'm all right," I answered. "I was never a Hercules, you know. I heard that you were here
from Bohun. I was going to write to you. But it's excellent that we should meet like this."

"I was after young Bohun," he explained. "But it's pleasant to find there's another fellow
in the town one knows. I've been a bit at sea these two days. To tell you the truth I never
wanted to come." I heard a rumble in his throat that sounded like "silly blighters."

"Come in," I said. "You must meet Madame Markovitch with whom Bohun is staying--and then wait
a bit. He won't be long, I expect."

The idea of this seemed to fill Jerry with alarm. He turned back toward the door. "Oh! I don't
think... she won't want... better another time..." his mouth was filled with indistinct rumblings.

"Nonsense." I caught his arm. "She is delightful. You must make yourself at home here. They'll
be only too glad."

"Does she speak English?" he asked.

"No," I answered. "But that's all right."

He backed again towards the door.

"My Russian's so slow," he said. "Never been here since I was a kid. I'd rather not, really--"

However, I dragged him in and introduced him. I had quite a fatherly desire, as I watched him,
that "he should make good." But I'm afraid that that first interview was not a great success.
Vera Michailovna was strange that afternoon, excited and disturbed as I had never known her,
and I could see that it was only with the greatest difficulty that she could bring herself
to think about Jerry at all.

And Jerry himself was so unresponsive that I could have beaten him. "Why, you're duller than
you used to be," I thought to myself, and wondered how I could have suspected, in those days,
subtle depths and mysterious comprehensions. Vera Michailovna asked him questions about France
and London but, quite obviously, did not listen to his answers.

After ten minutes he pulled himself up slowly from his chair:

"Well, I must be going," he said. "Tell young Bohun I shall be waiting for him to-night--7.30--Astoria--"
He turned to Vera Michailovna to say good-bye, and then, suddenly, as she rose and their eyes
met, they seemed to strike some unexpected chord of sympathy. It took both of them, I think,
by surprise; for quite a moment they stared at one another.

"Please come whenever you want to see your friend," she said, "we shall be delighted."

"Thank you," he answered simply, and went.

When he had gone she said to me:

"I like that man. One could trust him."

"Yes, one could," I answered her.

IX

I must return now to young Henry Bohun. I would like to arouse your sympathy for him, but sympathy's
a dangerous medicine for the young, who are only too ready, so far as their self-confidence
goes, to take a mile if you give them an inch. But with Bohun it was simply a case of re-delivering,
piece by piece, the mile that he had had no possible right to imagine in his possession, and
at the end of his relinquishment he was as naked and impoverished a soul as any life with youth
and health on its side can manage to sustain. He was very miserable during these first weeks,
and then it must be remembered that Petrograd was, at this time, no very happy place for anybody.
Bohun was not a coward--he would have stood the worst things in France without flinching--but
he was neither old enough nor young enough to face without a tremor the queer world of nerves
and unfulfilled expectation in which he found himself. In the first place, Petrograd was so
very different from anything that he had expected. Its size and space, its power of reducing
the human figure to a sudden speck of insignificance, its strange lights and shadows, its waste
spaces and cold, empty, moonlit squares, its jumble of modern and mediaeval civilisation, above
all, its supreme indifference to all and sundry--these things cowed and humiliated him. He
was sharp enough to realise that here he was nobody at all. Then he had not expected to be
so absolutely cut off from all that he had known. The Western world simply did not seem to
exist. The papers came so slowly that on their arrival they were not worth reading. He had
not told his friends in England to send his letters through the Embassy bag, with the result
that they would not, he was informed, reach him for months.

Of his work I do not intend here to speak,--it does not come into this story,--but he found
that it was most complicated and difficult, and kicks rather than halfpence would be the certain
reward. And Bohun hated kicks....

Finally, he could not be said to be happy in the Markovitch flat. He had, poor boy, heard so
much about Russian hospitality, and had formed, from the reading of the books of Mr. Stephen
Graham and others, delightful pictures of the warmest hearts in the world holding out the warmest
hands before the warmest samovars. In its spirit that was true enough, but it was not true
in the way that Bohun expected it.

The Markovitches, during those first weeks, left him to look after himself because they quite
honestly believed that that was the thing that he would prefer. Uncle Ivan tried to entertain
him, but Bohun found him a bore, and with the ruthless intolerance of the very young, showed
him so. The family did not put itself out to please him in any way. He had his room and his
latchkey. There was always coffee in the morning, dinner at half-past six, and the samovar
from half-past nine onwards. But the Markovitch family life was not turned from its normal
course. Why should it be?

And then he was laughed at. Nina laughed at him. Everything about him seemed to Nina ridiculous--his
cold bath in the morning, his trouser-press, the little silver-topped bottles on his table,
the crease in his trousers, his shining neat hair, the pearl pin in his black tie, his precise
and careful speech, the way that he said "Nu tak... Spasebo... gavoreet... gariachy..." She
was never tired of imitating him; and very soon he caught her strutting about the dining-room
with a man's cap on her head, twisting a cane and bargaining with an Isvostchick--this last
because, only the evening before, he had told them with great pride of his cleverness in that
especial direction. The fun was good-natured enough, but it was, as Russian chaff generally
is, quite regardless of sensitive feelings. Nina chaffed everybody and nobody minded, but Bohun
did not know this, and minded very much indeed. He showed during dinner that evening that he
was hurt, and sat over his cabbage soup very dignified and silent. This made every one uncomfortable,
although Vera told me afterwards that she found it difficult not to laugh. The family did not
make themselves especially pleasant, as Henry felt they ought to have done--they continued
the even tenor of their way. He was met by one of those sudden cold horrible waves of isolated
terror with which it pleases Russia sometimes to overwhelm one. The snow was falling; the town
was settling into a suspicious ominous quiet. There was no light in the sky, and horrible winds
blew round the corners of abandoned streets. Henry was desperately homesick. He would have
cut and run, had there been any possible means of doing it. He did not remember the wild joy
with which he had heard, only a few weeks before, that he was to come to Petrograd. He had
forgotten even the splendours of Discipline. He only knew that he was lonely and frightened
and home-sick. He seemed to be without a friend in the world.

But he was proud. He confided in nobody. He went about with his head up, and every one thought
him the most conceited young puppy who had ever trotted the Petrograd streets. And, although
he never owned it even to himself, Jerry Lawrence seemed to him now the one friendly soul in
all the world. You could be sure that Lawrence would be always the same; he would not laugh
at you behind your back, if he disliked something he would say so. You knew where you were
with him, and in the uncertain world in which poor Bohun found himself that simply was everything.
Bohun would have denied it vehemently if you told him that he had once looked down on Lawrence,
or despised him for his inartistic mind. Lawrence was "a fine fellow"; he might seem a little
slow at first, "but you wait and you will see what kind of a chap he is." Nevertheless Bohun
was not able to be for ever in his company; work separated them, and then Lawrence lodged with
Baron Wilderling on the Admiralty Quay, a long way from Anglisky Prospect. Therefore, at the
end of three weeks, Henry Bohun discovered himself to be profoundly wretched. There seemed
to be no hope anywhere. Even the artist in him was disappointed. He went to the Ballet and
saw Tchaikowsky's "Swan Lake"; but bearing Diagilev's splendours in front of him, and knowing
nothing about the technique of ballet-dancing he was bored and cross and contemptuous. He went
to "Eugen Onyegin" and enjoyed it, because there was still a great deal of the schoolgirl in
him; but after that he was flung on to Glinka's "Russlan and Ludmilla," and this seemed to
him quite interminable and to have nothing to do with the gentleman and lady mentioned in the
title. He tried a play at the Alexander Theatre; it was, he saw, by Andréeff, whose art he
had told many people in England he admired, but now he mixed him up in his mind with Kuprin,
and the play was all about a circus--very confused and gloomy. As for literature, he purchased
some new poems by Balmont, some essays by Merejkowsky, and André Biely's St. Petersburg, but
the first of these he found pretentious, the second dull, and the third quite impossibly obscure.
He did not confess to himself that it might perhaps be his ignorance of the Russian language
that was at fault. He went to the Hermitage and the Alexander Galleries, and purchased coloured
post-cards of the works of Somov, Benois, Douboginsky, Lançeray, and Ostroymova--all the quite
obvious people. He wrote home to his mother "that from what he could see of Russian Art it
seemed to him to have a real future in front of it"--and he bought little painted wooden animals
and figures at the Peasants' Workshops and stuck them up on the front of his stove.

"I like them because they are so essentially Russian," he said to me, pointing out a red spotted
cow and a green giraffe. "No other country could have been responsible for them."

Poor boy, I had not the heart to tell him that they had been made in Germany.

However, as I have said, in spite of his painted toys and his operas he was, at the end of
three weeks, a miserable man. Anybody could see that he was miserable, and Vera Michailovna
saw it. She took him in hand, and at once his life was changed. I was present at the beginning
of the change.

It was the evening of Rasputin's murder. The town of course talked of nothing else--it had
been talking, without cessation, since two o'clock that afternoon. The dirty, sinister figure
of the monk with his magnetic eyes, his greasy beard, his robe, his girdle, and all his other
properties, brooded gigantic over all of us. He was brought into immediate personal relationship
with the humblest, most insignificant creature in the city, and with him incredible shadows
and shapes, from Dostoeffsky, from Gogol, from Lermontov, from Nekrasov--from whom you please--all
the shadows of whom one is eternally subconsciously aware in Russia--faced us and reminded
us that they were not shadows but realities.

The details of his murder were not accurately known--it was only sure that, at last, after
so many false rumours of attempted assassination, he was truly gone, and this world would be
bothered by his evil presence no longer.

Pictures formed in one's mind as one listened. The day was fiercely cold, and this seemed to
add to the horror of it all--to the Hoffmannesque fantasy of the party, the lights, the supper,
and the women, the murder with its mixture of religion and superstition and melodrama, the
body flung out at last so easily and swiftly, on to the frozen river. How many souls must have
asked themselves that day--"Why, if this is so easy, do we not proceed further? A man dies
more simply than you thought--only resolution... only resolution."

I know that that evening I found it impossible to remain in my lonely rooms; I went round to
the Markovitch flat. I found Vera Michailovna and Bohun preparing to go out; they were alone
in the flat. He looked at me apprehensively. I think that I appeared to him at that time a
queer, moody, ill-disposed fellow, who was too old to understand the true character of young
men's impetuous souls. It may be that he was right....

"Will you come with us, Ivan Andreievitch?" Vera Michailovna asked me. "We're going to the
little cinema on Ekateringofsky--a piece of local colour for Mr. Bohun."

"I'll come anywhere with you," I said. "And we'll talk about Rasputin."

Bohun was only too ready. The affair seemed to his romantic soul too good to be true. Because
we none of us knew, at that time, what had really happened, a fine field was offered for every
rumour and conjecture.

Bohun had collected some wonderful stories. I saw that, apart from Rasputin, he was a new man--something
had happened to him. It was not long before I discovered that what had happened was that Vera
Michailovna had been kind to him. Vera's most beautiful quality was her motherliness. I do
not intend that much-abused word in any sentimental fashion. She did not shed tears over a
dirty baby in the street, nor did she drag decrepit old men into the flat to give them milk
and fifty kopecks,--but let some one appeal to the strength and bravery in her, and she responded
magnificently. I believe that to be true of very many Russian women, who are always their most
natural selves when something appeals to the best in them. Vera Michailovna had a strength
and a security in her protection of souls weaker than her own that had about it nothing forced
or pretentious or self-conscious--it was simply the natural woman acting as she was made to
act. She saw that Bohun was lonely and miserable and, now that the first awkwardness was passed
and he was no longer a stranger, she was able, gently and unobtrusively, to show him that she
was his friend. I think that she had not liked him at first; but if you want a Russian to like
you, the thing to do is to show him that you need him. It is amazing to watch their readiness
to receive dependent souls whom they are in no kind of way qualified to protect--but they do
their best, and although the result is invariably bad for everybody's character, a great deal
of affection is created.

As we walked to the cinema she asked him, very gently and rather shyly, about his home and
his people and English life. She must have asked all her English guests the same questions,
but Bohun, I fancy, gave her rather original answers. He let himself go, and became very young
and rather absurd, but also sympathetic. We were, all three of us, gay and silly, as one very
often suddenly is, in Russia, in the middle of even disastrous situations. It had been a day
of most beautiful weather, the mud was frozen, the streets clean, the sky deep blue, the air
harshly sweet. The night blazed with stars that seemed to swing through the haze of the frost
like a curtain moved, very gently, by the wind. The Ekateringofsky Canal was blue with the
stars lying like scraps of quicksilver all about it, and the trees and houses were deep black
in outline above it. I could feel that the people in the street were happy. The murder of Rasputin
was a sign, a symbol; his figure had been behind the scenes so long that it had become mythical,
something beyond human power--and now, behold, it was not beyond human power at all, but was
there like a dead stinking fish. I could see the thought in their minds as they hurried along:
"Ah, he is gone, the dirty fellow--Slava Bogu--the war will soon be over."

I, myself, felt the influence. Perhaps now the war would go better, perhaps Stunner and Protopopoff
and the rest of them would be dismissed, and clean men... it was still time for the Czar....
And I heard Bohun, in his funny, slow, childish Russian: "But you understand, Vera Michailovna,
that my father knows nothing about writing, nothing at all--so that it wouldn't matter very
much what he said.... Yes, he's military--been in the Army always...."

Along the canal the little trees that in the spring would be green flames were touched now
very faintly by silver frost. A huge barge lay black against the blue water; in the middle
of it the rain had left a pool that was not frozen and under the light of a street lamp blazed
gold--very strange the sudden gleam.... We passed the little wooden shelter where an old man
in a high furry cap kept oranges and apples and nuts and sweets in paper. One candle illuminated
his little store. He looked out from the darkness behind him like an old prehistoric man. His
shed was peaked like a cocked hat, an old fat woman sat beside him knitting and drinking a
glass of tea....

"I'm sorry, Vera Michailovna, that you can't read English...." Bohun's careful voice was explaining,
"Only Wells and Locke and Jack London...."

I heard Vera Michailovna's voice. Then Bohun again:

"No, I write very slowly--yes, I correct an awful lot...."

We stumbled amongst the darkness of the cobbles; where pools had been the ice crackled beneath
our feet, then the snow scrunched.... I loved the sound, the sharp clear scent of the air,
the pools of stars in the sky, the pools of ice at our feet, the blue like the thinnest glass
stretched across the sky. I felt the poignancy of my age, of the country where I was, of Bohun's
youth and confidence, of the war, of disease and death--but behind it all happiness at the
strange sense that I had to-night, that came to me sometimes from I knew not where, that the
undercurrent of the river of life was stronger than the eddies and whirlpools on its surface,
that it knew whither it was speeding, and that the purpose behind its force was strong and
true and good....

"Oh," I heard Bohun say, "I'm not really very young, Vera Michailovna. After all, it's what
you've done rather than your actual years...."

"You're older than you'll ever be again, Bohun, if that's any consolation to you," I said.

We had arrived. The cinema door blazed with light, and around it was gathered a group of soldiers
and women and children, peering in at a soldiers' band, which, placed on benches in a corner
of the room, played away for its very life. Outside, around the door were large bills announcing
"The Woman without a Soul, Drama in four parts," and there were fine pictures of women falling
over precipices, men shot in bedrooms, and parties in which all the guests shrank back in extreme
horror from the heroine. We went inside and were overwhelmed by the band, so that we could
not hear one another speak. The floor was covered with sunflower seeds, and there was a strong
smell of soldiers' boots and bad cigarettes and urine. We bought tickets from an old Jewess
behind the pigeon-hole and then, pushing the curtain aside, stumbled into darkness. Here the
smell was different, being, quite simply that of human flesh not very carefully washed. Although,
as we stumbled to some seats at the back, we could feel that we were alone, it had the impression
that multitudes of people pressed in upon us, and when the lights did go up we found that the
little hall was indeed packed to its extremest limit.

No one could have denied that it was a cheerful scene. Soldiers, sailors, peasants, women,
and children crowded together upon the narrow benches. There was a great consumption of sunflower
seeds, and the narrow passage down the middle of the room was littered with fragments. Two
stout and elaborate policemen leaned against the wall surveying the public with a friendly
if superior air. There was a tremendous amount of noise. Mingled with the strains of the band
beyond the curtain were cries and calls and loud roars of laughter. The soldiers embraced the
girls, and the children, their fingers in their mouths, wandered from bench to bench, and a
mangy dog begged wherever he thought that he saw a kindly face. All the faces were kindly--kindly,
ignorant, and astoundingly young. As I felt that youth I felt also separation; I and my like
could emphasise as we pleased the goodness, docility, mysticism even of these people, but we
were walking in a country of darkness. I caught a laugh, the glance of some women, the voice
of a young soldier--I felt behind us, watching us, the thick heavy figure of Rasputin. I smelt
the eastern scent of the sunflower seeds, I looked back and glanced at the impenetrable superiority
of the two policemen, and I laughed at myself for the knowledge that I thought I had, for the
security upon which I thought that I rested, for the familiarity with which I had fancied I
could approach my neighbours.... I was not wise, I was not secure, I had no claim to familiarity....

The lights were down and we were shown pictures of Paris. Because the cinema was a little one
and the prices small the films were faded and torn, so that the Opera and the Place de la Concorde
and the Louvre and the Seine danced and wriggled and broke before our eyes. They looked strange
enough to us and only accented our isolation and the odd semi-civilisation in which we were
living. There were comments all around the room in exactly the spirit of children before a
conjurer at a party.... The smell grew steadily stronger and stronger... my head swam a little
and I seemed to see Rasputin, swelling in his black robe, catching us all into its folds, sweeping
us up into the starlight sky. We were under the flare of the light again. I caught Bohun's
happy eyes; he was talking eagerly to Vera Michailovna, not removing his eyes from her face.
She had conquered him; I fancied as I looked at her that her thoughts were elsewhere.

There followed a Vaudeville entertainment. A woman and a man in peasants' dress came and laughed
raucously, without meaning, their eyes narrowly searching the depths of the house, then they
stamped their feet and whirled around, struck one another, laughed again, and vanished.

The applause was half-hearted. Then there was a trainer of dogs, a black-eyed Tartar with four
very miserable little fox-terriers, who shivered and trembled and jumped reluctantly through
hoops. The audience liked this, and cried and shouted and threw paper pellets at the dogs.
A stout perspiring Jew in a shabby evening suit came forward and begged for decorum. Then there
appeared a stout little man in a top hat who wished to recite verses of, I gathered, a violent
indecency. I was uncomfortable about Vera Michailovna, but I need not have been. The indecency
was of no importance to her, and she was interested in the human tragedy of the performer.
Tragedy it was. The man was hungry and dirty and not far from tears. He forgot his verses and
glanced nervously into the wings as though he expected to be beaten publicly by the perspiring Jew.

He stammered; his mouth wobbled; he covered it with a dirty hand. He could not continue.

The audience was sympathetic. They listened in encouraging silence; then they clapped; then
they shouted friendly words to him. You could feel throughout the room an intense desire that
he should succeed. He responded a little to the encouragement, but could not remember his verses.
He struggled, struggled, did a hurried little breakdown dance, bowed and vanished into the
wings, to be beaten, I have no doubt, by the Jewish gentleman. We watched a little of the "Drama
of the Woman without a Soul," but the sense of being in a large vat filled with boiling human
flesh into whose depths we were pressed ever more and more deeply was at last too much for
us, and we stumbled our way into the open air. The black shadow of the barge, the jagged outline
of the huddled buildings against the sky, the black tower at the end of the canal, all these
swam in the crystal air.

We took deep breaths of the freshness and purity; cheerful noises were on every side of us,
the band and laughter; a church bell with its deep note and silver tinkle; the snow was vast
and deep and hard all about us. We walked back very happily to Anglisky Prospect. Vera Michailovna
said good-night to me and went in. Before he followed her, Bohun turned round to me:

"Isn't she splendid?" he whispered. "By God, Durward, I'd do anything for her.... Do you think
she likes me?"

"Why not?" I asked.

"I want her to--frightfully. I'd do anything for her. Do you think she'd like to learn English?"

"I don't know," I said. "Ask her."

He disappeared. As I walked home I felt about me the new interaction of human lives and souls--ambitions,
hopes, youth. And the crisis, behind these, of the world's history made up, as it was, of the
same interactions of human and divine. The fortunes and adventures of the soul on its journey
towards its own country, its hopes and fears, struggles and despairs, its rejections and joy
and rewards--its death and destruction--all this in terms of human life and the silly blundering
conditions of this splendid glorious earth.... Here was Vera Michailovna and her husband, Nina
and Boris Grogoff, Bohun and Lawrence, myself and Semyonov--a jumbled lot--with all our pitiful
self-important little histories, our crimes and virtues so insignificant and so quickly over,
and behind them the fine stuff of the human and divine soul, pushing on through all raillery
and incongruity to its goal. Why, I had caught up, once more, that interest in life that I
had, I thought, so utterly lost! I stopped for a moment by the frozen canal and laughed to
myself. The drama of life was, after all, too strong for my weak indifference. I felt that
night as though I had stepped into a new house with lighted rooms and fires and friends waiting
for me. Afterwards, I was so closely stirred by the sense of impending events that I could
not sleep, but sat at my window watching the faint lights of the sky shift and waver over the
frozen ice....

X

We were approaching Christmas. The weather of these weeks was wonderfully beautiful, sharply
cold, the sky pale bird's-egg blue, the ice and the snow glittering, shining with a thousand
colours. There began now a strange relationship between Markovitch and myself.

There was something ineffectual and pessimistic about me that made Russians often feel in me
a kindred soul. At the Front, Russians had confided in me again and again, but that was not
astonishing, because they confided in every one. Nevertheless, they felt that I was less English
than the rest, and rather blamed me in their minds, I think, for being so. I don't know what
it was that suddenly decided Markovitch to "make me part of his life." I certainly did not
on my side make any advances.

One evening he came to see me and stayed for hours. Then he came two or three times within
the following fortnight. He gave me the effect of not caring in the least whether I were there
or no, whether I replied or remained silent, whether I asked questions or simply pursued my
own work. And I, on my side, had soon in my consciousness his odd, irascible, nervous, pleading,
shy and boastful figure painted permanently, so that his actual physical presence seemed to
be unimportant. There he was, as he liked to stand up against the white stove in my draughty
room, his rather dirty nervous hands waving in front of me, his thin hair on end, his ragged
beard giving his eyes an added expression of anxiety. His body was a poor affair, his legs
thin and uncertain, an incipient stomach causing his waistcoat suddenly to fall inwards somewhere
half-way up his chest, his feet in ill-shapen boots, and his neck absurdly small inside his
high stiff collar. His stiff collar jutting sharply into his weak chin was perhaps his most
striking feature. Most Russians of his careless habits wore soft collars or students' shirts
that fastened tight about the neck, but this high white collar was with Markovitch a sign and
a symbol, the banner of his early ambitions; it was the first and last of him. He changed it
every day, it was always high and sharp, gleaming and clean, and it must have hurt him very
much. He wore with it a shabby black tie that ran as far up the collar as it could go, and
there was a sense of pathos and struggle about this tie as though it were a wild animal trying
to escape over an imprisoning wall. He would stand clutching my stove as though it assured
his safety in a dangerous country; then suddenly he would break away from it and start careering
up and down my room, stopping for an instant to gaze through my window at the sea and the ships,
then off again, swinging his arms, his anxious eyes searching everywhere for confirmation of
the ambitions that still enflamed him.

For the root and soul of him was that he was greatly ambitious. He had been born, I learnt,
in some small town in the Moscow province, and his father had been a schoolmaster in the place--a
kind of Perodonov, I should imagine, from the things that Markovitch told me about him. The
father, at any rate, was a mean, malicious, and grossly sensual creature, and he finally lost
his post through his improper behaviour towards some of his own small pupils. The family then
came to evil days, and at a very early age young Markovitch was sent to Petrograd to earn what
he could with his wits. He managed to secure the post of a secretary to an old fellow who was
engaged in writing the life of his grandfather--a difficult book, as the grandfather had been
a voluminous letter-writer, and this correspondence had to be collected and tabulated. For
months, and even years, young Markovitch laboriously endeavoured to arrange these old yellow
letters, dull, pathetic, incoherent. His patron grew slowly imbecile, but through the fogs
that increasingly besieged him saw only this one thing clearly, that the letters must be arranged.
He kept Markovitch relentlessly at his table, allowing him no pleasures, feeding him miserably
and watching him personally undress every evening lest he should have secreted certain letters
somewhere on his body. There was something almost sadist apparently in the old gentleman's
observation of Markovitch's labours.

It was during these years that Markovitch's ambitions took flame. He was always as he told
me having "amazing ideas." I asked him--What kind of ideas? "Ideas by which the world would
be transformed.... Those letters were all old, you know, and dusty, and yellow, and eaten,
some of them, by rats, and they'd lie on the floor and I'd try to arrange them in little piles
according to their dates.... There'd be rows of little packets all across the floor..., and
then somehow, when one's back was turned, they'd move, all of their own wicked purpose--and
one would have to begin all over again, bending with one's back aching, and seeing always the
stupid handwriting.... I hated it, Ivan Andreievitch, of course I hated it, but I had to do
it for the money. And I lived in his house, too, and as he got madder it wasn't pleasant. He
wanted me to sleep with him because he saw things in the middle of the night, and he'd catch
hold of me and scream and twist his fat legs round me... no, it wasn't agreeable. On ne sympatichne
saff-szem. He wasn't a nice man at all. But while I was sorting the letters these ideas would
come to me and I would be on fire.... It seemed to me that I was to save the world, and that
it would not be difficult if only one might be resolute enough. That was the trouble--to be
resolute. One might say to oneself, 'On Friday October 13th I will do so and so, and then on
Saturday November 3rd I will do so and so, and then on December 24th it will be finished.'
But then on October 13th one is, may be, in quite another mood--one is even ill possibly--and
so nothing is done and the whole plan is ruined. I would think all day as to how I would make
myself resolute, and I would say when old Feodor Stepanovitch would pinch my ear and deny me
more soup, 'Ah ha, you wait, you old pig-face--you wait until I've mastered my resolution--and
then I'll show you!' I fancied, for instance, that if I could command myself sufficiently I
could just go to people and say, 'You must have bath-houses like this and this'--I had all
the plans ready, you know, and in the hottest room you have couches like this, and you have
a machine that beats your back--so, so, so--not those dirty old things that leave bits of green
stuff all over you--and so on, and so on. But better ideas than that, ideas about poverty and
wealth, no more kings, you know, nor police, but not your cheap Socialism that fellows like
Boris Nicolaievitch shout about; no, real happiness, so that no one need work as I did for
an old beast who didn't give you enough soup, and have to keep quiet, all the same and say
nothing. Ideas came like flocks of birds, so many that I couldn't gather them all but had sometimes
to let the best ones go. And I had no one to talk to about them--only the old cook and the
girl in the kitchen, who had a child by old Feodor that he wouldn't own,--but she swore it
was his, and told every one the time when it happened and where it was and all.... Then the
old man fell downstairs and broke his neck, and he'd left me some money to go on with the letters...."

At this point Markovitch's face would become suddenly triumphantly malevolent, like the face
of a schoolboy who remembers a trick that he played on a hated master. "Do you think I went
on with them, Ivan Andreievitch? no, not I... but I kept the money."

"That was wrong of you," I would say gravely.

"Yes--wrong of course. But hadn't he been wrong always? And after all, isn't everybody wrong?
We Russians have no conscience, you know, about anything, and that's simply because we can't
make up our minds as to what's wrong and what's right, and even if we do make up our minds
it seems a pity not to let yourself go when you may be dead to-morrow. Wrong and right....
What words!... Who knows? Perhaps it would have been the greatest wrong in the world to go
on with the letters, wasting everybody's time, and for myself, too, who had so many ideas,
that life simply would never be long enough to think them all out."

It seemed that shortly after this he had luck with a little invention, and this piece of luck
was, I should imagine, the ruin of his career, as pieces of luck so often are the ruin of careers.
I could never understand what precisely his invention was, it had something to do with the
closing of doors, something that you pulled at the bottom of the door, so that it shut softly
and didn't creak with the wind. A Jew bought the invention, and gave Markovitch enough money
to lead him confidently to believe that his fortune was made. Of course it was not, he never
had luck with an invention again, but he was bursting with pride and happiness, set up house
for himself in a little flat on the Vassily Ostrov--and met Vera Michailovna. I wish I could
give some true idea of the change that came over him when he reached this part of his story.
When he had spoken of his childhood, his father, his first struggles to live, his life with
his old patron, he had not attempted to hide the evil, the malice, the envy that there was
in his soul. He had even emphasised it, I might fancy, for my own especial benefit, so that
I might see that he was not such a weak, romantic, sentimental creature as I had supposed--although
God knows I had never fancied him romantic. Now when he spoke of his wife his whole body changed.
"She married me out of pity," he told me. "I hated her for that, and I loved her for that,
and I hate and love her for it still."

Here I interrupted him and told him that perhaps it was better that he should not confide in
me the inner history of his marriage.

"Why not?" he asked me suspiciously.

"Because I'm only an acquaintance, you scarcely know me. You may regret it afterwards when
you're in another mood."

"Oh, you English!" he said contemptuously; "you're always to be trusted. As a nation you're
not, but as one man to another you're not interested enough in human nature to give away secrets."

"Well, tell me what you like," I said. "Only I make no promises about anything."

"I don't want you to," he retorted; "I'm only telling you what every one knows. Wasn't I aware
from the first moment that she married me out of pity, and didn't they all know it, and laugh
and tell her she was a fool. She knew that she was a fool too, but she was very young, and
thought it fine to sacrifice herself for an idea. I was ill and I talked to her about my future.
She believed in it, she thought I could do wonderful things if only some one looked after me.
And at the same time despised me for wanting to be looked after.... And then I wasn't so ugly
as I am now. She had some money of her own, and we took in lodgers, and I loved her, as I love
her now, so that I could kiss her feet and then hate her because she was kind to me. She only
cares for her sister, Nina; and because I was jealous of the girl and hated to see Vera good
to her I had her to live with us, just to torture myself and show that I was stronger than
all of them if I liked.... And so I am, than her beastly uncle the doctor and all the rest
of them--let him do what he likes...."

It was the first time that he had mentioned Semyonov.

"He's coming back," I said.

"Oh, is he?" snarled Markovitch. "Well, he'd better look out." Then his voice, his face, even
the shape of his body, changed once again. "I'm not a bad man, Ivan Andreievitch. No, I'm not....
You think so of course, and I don't mind if you do. But I love Vera, and if she loved me I
could do great things. I could astonish them all. I hear them say, 'Ah, that Nicholas Markovitch,
he's no good... with his inventions. What did a fine woman like that marry such a man for?'
I know what they say. But I'm strong if I like. I gave up drink when I wished. I can give up
anything. And when I succeed they'll see--and then we'll have enough money not to need these
people staying with us and despising us...."

"No one despises you, Nicolai Leontievitch," I interrupted.

"And what does it matter if they do?" he fiercely retorted. "I despise them--all of them. It's
easy for them when everything goes well with them, but with me everything goes wrong. Everything!...
But I'm strong enough to make everything go right--and I will."

This was, for the time, the end of his confidences. He had, I was sure, something further to
tell me, some plan, some purpose, but he decided suddenly that he would keep it to himself,
although I am convinced that he had only told me his earlier story in order that I might understand
this new idea of his. But I did not urge him to tell me. My interest in life had not yet sufficiently
revived; it was, after all, none of my business.

For the rest, it seemed that he had been wildly enthusiastic about the war at its commencement.
He had had great ideas about Russia, but now he had given up all hope. Russia was doomed; and
Germany, whom he hated and admired, would eat her up. And what did it matter? Perhaps Germany
would "run Russia," and then there would be order and less thieving, and this horrible war
would stop. How foolish it had been to suppose that any one in Russia would ever do anything.
They were all fools and knaves and idle in Russia--like himself.

And so he left me.

XI

On Christmas Eve, late in the evening, I went into a church. It was my favourite church in
Petrograd, rising at the English Prospect end of the Quay, with its white rounded towers pure
and quiet and modest.

I had been depressed all day. I had not been well, and the weather was harsh, a bitterly cold
driving wind beating down the streets and stroking the ice of the canal into a dull grey colour.
Christmas seemed to lift into sharper, bitterer irony the ghastly horrors of this end endless
war. Last Christmas I had been too ill to care, and the Christmas before I had been at the
Front when the war had been young and full of hope, and I had seen enough nobility and self-sacrifice
to be reassured about the true stuff of the human soul. Now all that seemed to be utterly gone.
On the one side my mind was filled with my friends, John Trenchard and Marie Ivanovna. The
sacrifice that they had made seemed to be wicked and useless. I had lost altogether that conviction
of the continuance and persistence of their souls that I had, for so long, carried with me.
They were dead, dead... simply dead. There at the Front one had believed in many things. Here
in this frozen and starving town, with every ghost working against every human, there was assurance
of nothing--only deep foreboding and an ominous silence. The murder of Rasputin still hung
over every head. The first sense of liberty had passed, and now his dirty malicious soul seemed
to be watching us all, reminding us that he had not left us, but was waiting for the striking
of some vast catastrophe that the friends whom he had left behind him to carry on his work
were preparing. It was this sense of moving so desperately and so hopelessly in the dark that
was with me. Any chance that there had seemed to be of Russia rising from the war with a free
soul appeared now to be utterly gone. Before our eyes the powers that ruled us were betraying
us, laughing at us, selling us. And we did not know who was our enemy, who our friend, whom
to believe, of whom to take counsel. Peculation and lying and the basest intrigue was on every
side of us, hunger for which there was no necessity, want in a land packed with everything.
I believe that there may have been very well another side to the picture, but at that time
we could not see; we did not wish to see, we were blindfolded men....

I entered the church and found that the service was over. I passed through the aisle into the
little rounded cup of dark and gold where the altars were. Here there were still collected
a company of people, kneeling, some of them, in front of the candles, others standing there,
motionless like statues, their hands folded, gazing before them. The candles flung a mist of
dim embroidery upon the walls, and within the mist the dark figures of the priests moved to
and fro. An old priest with long white hair was standing behind a desk close to me, and reading
a long prayer in an unswerving monotonous voice. There was the scent of candles and cold stone
and hot human breath in the little place. The tawdry gilt of the Ikons glittered in the candle-light,
and an echo of the cold wind creeping up the long dark aisle blew the light about so that the
gilt was like flashing piercing eyes. I wrapped my Shuba closely about me, and stood there
lost in a hazy, indefinite dream.

I was comforted and touched by the placid, mild, kindly faces of those standing near me. "No
evil here...." I thought. "Only ignorance, and for that others are responsible."

I was lost in my dream and I did not know of what I was dreaming. The priest's voice went on,
and the lights flickered, and it was as though some one, a long way off, were trying to give
me a message that it was important that I should hear, important for myself and for others.
There came over me, whence I know not, a sudden conviction of the fearful power of Evil, a
sudden realisation, as though I had been shown something, a scene or a picture or writing which
had brought this home to me.... The lights seemed to darken, the priest's figure faded, and
I felt as though the message that some one had been trying to deliver to me had been withdrawn.
I waited a moment, looking about me in a bewildered fashion, as though I had in reality just
woken from sleep. Then I left the church.

Outside the cold air was intense. I walked to the end of the Quay and leaned on the stone parapet.
The Neva seemed vast like a huge, white, impending shadow; it swept in a colossal wave of frozen
ice out to the far horizon, where tiny, twinkling lights met it and closed it in. The bridges
that crossed it held forth their lights, and there were the gleams, like travelling stars,
of the passing trams, but all these were utterly insignificant against the vast body of the
contemptuous ice. On the farther shore the buildings rose in a thin, tapering line, looking
as though they had been made of black tissue paper, against the solid weight of the cold, stony
sky. The Peter and Paul Fortress, the towers of the Mohammedan Mosque were thin, immaterial,
ghostly, and the whole line of the town was simply a black pencilled shadow against the ice,
smoke that might be scattered with one heave of the force of the river. The Neva was silent,
but beneath that silence beat what force and power, what contempt and scorn, what silent purposes?

I saw then, near me, and gazing, like myself, on to the river the tall, broad figure of a peasant,
standing, without movement, black against the sky.

He seemed to dominate the scene, to be stronger and more contemptuous than the ice itself,
but also to be in sympathy with it.

I made some movement, and he turned and looked at me. He was a fine man, with a black beard
and noble carriage. He passed down the Quay and I turned towards home.

XII

About four o'clock on Christmas afternoon I took some flowers to Vera Michailovna. I found
that the long sitting-room had been cleared of all furniture save the big table and the chairs
round it. About a dozen middle-aged ladies were sitting about the table and solemnly playing
"Lotto." So serious were they that they scarcely looked up when I came in. Vera Michailovna
said my name and they smiled and some of them bowed, but their eyes never left the numbered
cards. "Dvar... Peedecat... Cheteeriy... Zurock Tree... Semdecet Voisim"... came from a stout
and good-natured lady reading the numbers as she took them from the box. Most of the ladies
were healthy, perspiring, and of a most amiable appearance. They might, many of them, have
been the wives of English country clergymen, so domestic and unalarmed were they. I recognised
two Markovitch aunts and a Semyonov cousin.

There was a hush and a solemnity about the proceedings. Vera Michailovna was very busy in the
kitchen, her face flushed and her sleeves rolled up; Sacha, the servant, malevolently assisting
her and scolding continually the stout and agitated country girl who had been called in for
the occasion.

"All goes well," Vera smilingly assured me. "Half-past six it is--don't be late."

"I will be in time," I said.

"Do you know, I've asked your English friend. The big one."

"Lawrence?... Is he coming?"

"Yes. At least I understood so on the telephone, but he sounded confused. Do you think he will
want to come?"

"I'm sure he will," I answered.

"Afterwards I wasn't sure. I thought he might think it impertinent when we know him so little.
But he could easily have said if he didn't want to come, couldn't he?"

There seemed to me something unusual in the way that she asked me these questions. She did
not usually care whether people were offended or no. She had not time to consider that, and
in any case she despised people who took offence easily.

I would perhaps have said something, but the country girl dropped a plate and Sacha leapt upon
the opportunity. "Drunk!... What did I say, having such a girl? Is it not better to do things
for yourself? But no--of course no one cares for my advice, as though last year the same thing...."
And so on.

I left them and went home to prepare for the feast.

I returned punctually at half-past six and found every one there. Many of the ladies had gone,
but the aunts remained, and there were other uncles and some cousins. We must have been in
all between twenty and thirty people. The table was now magnificently spread. There was a fine
glittering Father Christmas in the middle, a Father Christmas of German make, I am afraid.
Ribbons and frosted strips of coloured paper ran in lines up and down the cloth. The "Zakuska"
were on a side-table near the door--herrings and ham and smoked fish and radishes and mushrooms
and tongue and caviare and, most unusual of all in those days, a decanter of vodka.

No one had begun yet; every one stood about, a little uneasy and awkward, with continuous glances
flung at the "Zakuska" table. Of the company Markovitch first caught my eye. I had never seen
him so clean and smart before. His high, piercing collar was of course the first thing that
one saw; then one perceived that his hair was brushed, his beard trimmed, and that he wore
a very decent suit of rather shiny black. This washing and scouring of him gave him a curiously
subdued and imprisoned air; I felt sympathetic towards him; I could see that he was anxious
to please, happy at the prospect of being a successful host, and, to-night, most desperately
in love with his wife. That last stood out and beyond all else. His eyes continually sought
her face; he had the eyes of a dog watching and waiting for its master's appreciative word.

I had never before seen Vera Michailovna so fine and independent and, at the same time, so
kind and gracious. She was dressed in white, very plain and simple, her shining black hair
piled high on her head, her kind, good eyes watching every one and everything to see that all
were pleased. She, too, was happy to-night, but happy also in a strange, subdued, quiescent
way, and I felt, as I always did about her, that her soul was still asleep and untouched, and
that much of her reliance and independence came from that. Uncle Ivan was in his smart clothes,
his round face very red and he wore his air of rather ladylike but inoffensive superiority.
He stood near the table with the "Zakuska," and his eyes rested there. I do not now remember
many of the Markovitch and Semyonov relations. There was a tall thin young man, rather bald,
with a short black moustache; he was nervous and self-assertive, and he had a high, shrill
voice. He talked incessantly. There were several delightful, middle-aged women, quiet and ready
to be pleased with everything--the best Russian type of all perhaps, women who knew life, who
were generously tolerant, kind-hearted, with a quiet sense of humour and no nonsense about
them. There was one fat red-faced man in a very tight black coat, who gave his opinion always
about food and drink. He was from Moscow--his name Paul Leontievitch Rozanov--and I met him
on a later occasion of which I shall have to tell in its place. Then there were two young girls
who giggled a great deal and whispered together. They hung around Nina and stroked her hair
and admired her dress, and laughed at Boris Grogoff and any one else who was near them.

Nina was immensely happy. She loved parties of course, and especially parties in which she
was the hostess. She was like a young kitten or puppy in a white frock, with her hair tumbling
over her eyes. She was greatly excited, and as joyous as though there were no war, and no afflicted
Russia, and nothing serious in all the world. This was the first occasion on which I suspected
that Grogoff cared for her. Outwardly he did nothing but chaff and tease her, and she responded
in that quick rather sharp and very often crudely personal way at which foreigners for the
first time in Russian company so often wonder. Badinage with Russians so quickly passes to
lively and noisy quarrelling, which in its turn so suddenly fades into quiet contented amiability
that it is little wonder that the observer feels rather breathless at it all. Grogoff was a
striking figure, with his fine height and handsome head and bold eyes, but there was something
about him that I did not like. Immensely self-confident, he nevertheless seldom opened his
mouth without betraying great ignorance about almost everything. He was hopelessly ill-educated,
and was the more able therefore from the very little knowledge that he had to construct a very
simple Socialist creed in which the main statutes were that everything should be taken from
the rich and given to the poor, the peasants should have all the land, and the rulers of the
world be beheaded. He had no knowledge of other countries, although he talked very freely of
what he called his "International Principles." I could not respect him as I could many Russian
revolutionaries, because he had never on any occasion put himself out or suffered any inconvenience
for his principles, living as he did, comfortably, with all the food and clothes that he needed.
At the same time he was, on the other hand, kindly and warm-hearted, and professed friendship
for me, although he despised what he called my "Capitalistic tendencies." Had he only known,
he was far richer and more autocratic than I!

In the midst of this company Henry Bohun was rather shy and uncomfortable. He was suspicious
always that they would laugh at his Russian (what mattered it if they did?), and he was distressed
by the noise and boisterous friendliness of every one. I could not help smiling to myself as
I watched him. He was learning very fast. He would not tell any one now that "he really thought
that he did understand Russia," nor would he offer to put his friends right about Russian characteristics
and behaviour. He watched the young giggling girls, and the fat Rozanov, and the shrill young
man with ill-concealed distress. Very far these from the Lizas and Natachas of his literary
imagination--and yet not so far either, had he only known.

He pinned all his faith, as I could see, to Vera Michailovna, who did gloriously fulfil his
self-instituted standards. And yet he did not know her at all! He was to suffer pain there too.

At dinner he was unfortunately seated between one of the giggling girls and a very deaf old
lady who was the great-aunt of Nina and Vera. This old lady trembled like an aspen leaf, and
was continually dropping beneath the table a little black bag that she carried. She could make
nothing of Bohun's Russian, even if she heard it, and was under the impression that he was
a Frenchman. She began a long quivering story about Paris to which she had once been, how she
had lost herself, and how a delightful Frenchman had put her on her right path again.... "A
chivalrous people, your countrymen".... she repeated, nodding her head so that her long silver
earrings rattled again--"gay and chivalrous!" Bohun was not, I am afraid, as chivalrous as
he might have been, because he knew that the girl on his other side was laughing at his attempts
to explain that he was not a Frenchman. "Stupid old woman!" he said to me afterwards. "She
dropped her bag under the table at least twenty times!"

Meanwhile the astonishing fact was that the success of the dinner was Jerry Lawrence. He was
placed on Vera Michailovna's left hand, Rozanov, the Moscow merchant near to him, and I did
not hear him say anything very bright or illuminating, but every one felt, I think, that he
was a cheerful and dependable person. I always felt, when I observed him, that he understood
the Russian character far better than any of us. He had none of the self-assertion of the average
Englishman and, at the same time, he had his opinions and his preferences. He took every kind
of chaff with good-humoured indifference, but I think it was above everything else his tolerance
that pleased the Russians. Nothing shocked him, which did not at all mean that he had no code
of honour or morals. His code was severe and stern, but his sense of human fallibility, and
the fine fight that human nature was always making against stupendous odds stirred him to a
fine and comprehending clarity. He had many faults. He was obstinate, often dull and lethargic,
in many ways grossly ill-educated and sometimes wilfully obtuse--but he was a fine friend,
a noble enemy, and a chivalrous lover. There was nothing mean nor petty in him, and his views
of life and the human soul were wider and more all-embracing than in any Englishman I have
ever known. You may say of course that it is sentimental nonsense to suppose at all that the
human soul is making a fine fight against odds. Even I, at this period, was tempted to think
that it might be nonsense, but it is a view as good as another, after all, and so ignorant
are all of us that no one has a right to say that anything is impossible!

After drinking the vodka and eating the "Zakuska," we sat down to table and devoured crayfish
soup. Every one became lively. Politics of course, were discussed.

I heard Rozanov say, "Ah, you in Petrograd! What do you know of things? Don't let me hurt any
one's feelings, pray.... Most excellent soup, Vera Michailovna--I congratulate you.... But
you just wait until Moscow takes things in hand. Why only the other day Maklakoff said to a
friend of mine--'It's all nonsense,' he said."

And the shrill-voiced young man told a story--"But it wasn't the same man at all. She was so
confused when she saw what she'd done, that I give you my word she was on the point of crying.
I could see tears... just trembling--on the edge. 'Oh, I beg your pardon,' she said, and the
man was such a fool...."

Markovitch was busy about the drinks. There was some sherry and some light red wine. Markovitch
was proud of having been able to secure it. He was beaming with pride. He explained to everybody
how it had been done. He walked round the table and stood, for an instant, with his hand on
Vera Michailovna's shoulder. The pies with fish and cabbage in them were handed round. He jested
with the old great-aunt. He shouted in her ear:

"Now, Aunt Isabella... some wine. Good for you, you know--keep you young...."

"No, no, no..." she protested, laughing and shaking her earrings, with tears in her eyes. But
he filled her glass and she drank it and coughed, still protesting.

"Thank you, thank you," she chattered as Bohun dived under the table and found her bag for
her. I saw that he did not like the crayfish soup, and was distressed because he had so large
a helping.

He blushed and looked at his plate, then began again to eat and stopped.

"Don't you like it?" one of the giggling girls asked him. "But it's very good. Have another 'Pie!'"

The meal continued. There were little suckling pigs with "Kasha," a kind of brown buckwheat.
Every one was gayer and gayer. Now all talked at once, and no one listened to anything that
any one else said. Of them all, Nina was by far the gayest. She had drunk no wine--she always
said that she could not bear the nasty stuff, and although every one tried to persuade her,
telling her that now when you could not get it anywhere, it was wicked not to drink it, she
would not change her mind. It was simply youth and happiness that radiated from her, and also
perhaps some other excitement for which I could not account. Grogoff tried to make her drink.
She defied him. He came over to her chair, but she pushed him away, and then lightly slapped
his cheek. Every one laughed. Then he whispered something to her. For an instant the gaiety
left her eyes. "You shouldn't say that!" she answered almost angrily. He went back to his seat.
I was sitting next to her, and she was very charming to me, seeing that I had all that I needed
and showing that she liked me. "You mustn't be gloomy and ill and miserable," she whispered
to me. "Oh! I've seen you! There's no need. Come to us and we'll make you as happy as we can--Vera
and I.... We both love you."

"My dear, I'm much too old and stupid for you to bother about!"

She put her hand on my arm. "I know that I'm wicked and care only for pleasure.... Vera's always
saying so. But I can be better if you want me to be."

This was flattering, but I knew that it was only her general happiness that made her talk like
that. And at once she was after something else. "Your Englishman," she said, looking across
the table at Lawrence, "I like his face. I should be frightened of him, though."

"Oh no, you wouldn't," I answered. "He wouldn't hurt any one."

She continued to look at him and he, glancing up, their eyes met. She smiled and he smiled.
Then he raised his glass and drank.

"I mustn't drink," she called across the table. "It's only water and that's bad luck."

"Oh, you can challenge any amount of bad luck--I'm sure," he called back to her.

I fancied that Grogoff did not like this. He was drinking a great deal. He roughly called Nina's
attention.

"Nina... Ah--Nina!"

But she, although I am certain that she heard him, paid no attention.

He called again more loudly:

"Nina... Nina!"

"Well?" She turned towards him, her eyes laughing at him.

"Drink my health."

"I can't. I have only water."

"Then you must drink wine."

"I won't. I detest it."

"But you must."

He came over to her and poured a little red wine into her water. She turned and emptied the
glass over his hand. For an instant his face was dark with rage.

"I'll pay you for that," I heard him whisper.

She shrugged her shoulders. "He's tiresome, Boris...." she said, "I like your Englishman better."

We were ever gayer and gayer. There were now of course no cakes nor biscuits, but there was
jam with our tea, and there were even some chocolates. I noticed that Vera and Lawrence were
getting on together famously. They talked and laughed, and her eyes were full of pleasure.

Markovitch came up and stood behind them, watching them. His eyes devoured his wife.

"Vera!" he said suddenly.

"Yes!" she cried. She had not known that he was behind her; she was startled. She turned round
and he came forward and kissed her hand. She let him do this, as she let him do everything,
with the indulgence that one allows a child. He stood, afterwards, half in the shadow, watching
her.

And now the moment for the event of the evening had arrived. The doors of Markovitch's little
work-room were suddenly opened, and there--instead of the shabby untidy dark little hole--there
was a splendid Christmas Tree blazing with a hundred candles. Coloured balls and frosted silver
and wooden figures of red and blue hung all about the tree--it was most beautifully done. On
a table close at hand were presents. We all clapped our hands. We were childishly delighted.
The old great-aunt cried with pleasure. Boris Grogoff suddenly looked like a happy boy of ten.
Happiest and proudest of them all was Markovitch. He stood there, a large pair of scissors
in his hand, waiting to cut the string round the parcels. We said again and again, "Marvellous!"
"Wonderful!" "Splendid!"... "But this year--however did you find it, Vera Michailovna?" "To
take such trouble!..." "Splendid! Splendid!" Then we were given our presents. Vera, it was
obvious had chosen them, for there was taste and discrimination in the choice of every one.
Mine was a little old religious figure in beaten silver--Lawrence had a silver snuff-box....
Every one was delighted. We clapped our hands. We shouted. Some one cried "Cheers for our host
and hostess!"

We gave them, and in no half measure. We shouted. Boris Grogoff cried, "More cheers!"

It was then that I saw Markovitch's face that had been puckered with pleasure like the face
of a delighted child suddenly stiffen, his hand moved forward, then dropped. I turned and found,
standing in the doorway, quietly watching us, Alexei Petrovitch Semyonov.

XIII

I stared at him. I could not take my eyes away. I instantly forgot every one else, the room,
the tree, the lights.... With a force, with a poignancy and pathos and brutality that were
more cruel than I could have believed possible that other world came back to me. Ah! I could
see now that all these months I had been running away from this very thing, seeking to pretend
that it did not exist, that it had never existed. All in vain--utterly in vain. I saw Semyonov
as I had just seen him, sitting on his horse outside the shining white house at O----. Then
Semyonov operating in a stinking room, under a red light, his arms bathed in blood; then Semyonov
and Trenchard; then Semyonov speaking to Marie Ivanovna, her eyes searching his face; then
that day when I woke from my dream in the orchard to find his eyes staring at me through the
bright green trees, and afterwards when we went in to look at her dead; then worst of all that
ride back to the "Stab" with my hand on his thick, throbbing arm.... Semyonov in the Forest,
working, sneering, hating us, despising us, carrying his tragedy in his eyes and defying us
to care; Semyonov that last time of all, vanishing into the darkness with his "Nothing!" that
lingering echo of a defiant desperate soul that had stayed with me, against my bidding, ever
since I had heard it.

What a fool had I been to know these people! I had felt from the first to what it must lead,
and I might have avoided it and I would not. I looked at him, I faced him, I smiled. He was
the same as he had been. A little stouter, perhaps, his pale hair and square-cut beard looking
as though it had been carved from some pale honey-coloured wood, the thick stolidity of his
long body and short legs, the squareness of his head, the coldness of his eyes and the violent
red of his lips, all were just as they had been--the same man, save that now he was in civilian
clothes, in a black suit with a black bow tie. There was a smile on his lips, that same smile
half sneer half friendliness that I knew so well. His eyes were veiled....

He was, I believe, as violently surprised to see me as I had been to see him, but he held himself
in complete control!

He said, "Why, Durward!... Ivan Andreievitch!" Then he greeted the others.

I was able, now, to notice the general effect of his arrival. It was as though a cold wind
had suddenly burst through the windows, blown out all the candles upon the tree and plunged
the place into darkness. Those who did not know him felt that, with his entrance, the gaiety
was gone. Markovitch's face was pale, he was looking at Vera who, for an instant, had stood,
quite silently, staring at her uncle, then, recovering herself, moved forward.

"Why, Uncle Alexei!" she cried, holding out her hand. "You're too late for the tree! Why didn't
you tell us? Then you could have come to dinner... and now it is all over. Why didn't you tell us?"

He took her hand, and, very solemnly, bent down and kissed it.

"I didn't know myself, dear Vera Michailovna. I only arrived in Petrograd yesterday; and then
in my house everything was wrong, and I've been busy all day. But I felt that I must run in
and give you the greetings of the season.... Ah, Nicholas, how are you? And you, Ivan?... I
telephoned to you.... Nina, my dear...." And so on. He went round and shook hands with them
all. He was introduced to Bohun and Lawrence. He was very genial, praising the tree, laughing,
shouting in the ears of the great-aunt. But no one responded. As so frequently happens in Russia
the atmosphere was suddenly changed. No one had anything to say. The candles on the tree were
blown out. Of course, the evening was not nearly ended. There would be tea and games, perhaps--at
any rate every one would sit and sit until three or four if, for no other reason, simply because
it demanded too much energy to rise and make farewells. But the spirit of the party was utterly
dead....

The samovar hissed at the end of the table. Vera Michailovna sat there making tea for every
one. Semyonov (I should now in the heart of his relations, have thought of him as Alexei Petrovitch,
but so long had he been Semyonov to me that Semyonov he must remain) was next to her, and I
saw that he took trouble, talking to her, smiling, his stiff strong white fingers now and then
stroking his thick beard, his red lips parting a little, then closing so firmly that it seemed
that they would never open again.

I noticed that his eyes often wandered towards me. He was uneasy about my presence there, I
thought, and that disturbed me. I felt as I looked at him the same confusion as I had always
felt. I did not hate him. His strength of character, his fearlessness, these things in a country
famous for neither quality I was driven to admire and to respect. And I could not hate what
I admired.

And yet my fear gathered and gathered in volume as I watched him. What would he do with these
people? What plans had he? What purpose? What secret, selfish ambitions was he out now to secure?

Markovitch was silent, drinking his tea, watching his wife, watching us all with his nervous
frowning expression.

I rose to go and then, when I had said farewell to every one and went towards the door, Semyonov
joined me.

"Well, Ivan Andreievitch," he said. "So we have not finished with one another yet."

He looked at me with his steady unswerving eyes; he smiled.

I also smiled as I found my coat and hat in the little hall. Sacha helped me into my Shuba.
He stood, his lips a little apart, watching me.

"What have you been doing all this time?" he asked me.

"I've been ill," I answered.

"Not had, I hope."

"No, not had. But enough to keep me very idle."

"As much of an optimist as ever?"

"Was I an optimist?"

"Why, surely. A charming one. Do you love Russia as truly as ever?"

I laughed, my hand on the door. "That's my affair, Alexei Petrovitch," I answered.

"Certainly," he said, smiling. "You're looking older, you know."

"You too," I said.

"Yes, perhaps. Would I still think you sentimental, do you suppose?"

"It is of no importance, Alexei Petrovitch," I said. "I'm sure you have other better things
to do. Are you remaining in Petrograd?"

He looked at me then very seriously, his eyes staring straight into mine.

"I hope so."

"You will work at your practice?"

"Perhaps." He nodded to me. "Strange to find you here...." he said. "We shall meet again. Good-night."

He closed the door behind me.

XIV

Next day I fell ill. I had felt unwell for several weeks, and now I woke up to a bad feverish
cold, my body one vast ache, and at the same time impersonal, away from me, floating over above
me, sinking under me, tied to me only by pain....

I was too utterly apathetic to care. The old woman who looked after my rooms telephoned to
my doctor, a stout, red-faced jolly man, who came and laughed at me, ordered me some medicine,
said that I was in a high fever, and left me. After that, I was, for several days, caught into
a world of dreams and nightmares. No one, I think, came near me, save my old woman, Marfa,
and a new acquaintance of mine, the Rat.

The Rat I had met some weeks before outside my house. I had been returning one evening, through
the dark, with a heavy bag of books which I had fetched from an English friend of mine who
lodged in the Millionnaya. I had had a cab for most of the distance, but that had stopped on
the other side of the bridge--it could not drive amongst the rubbish pebbles and spars of my
island. As I staggered along with my bag a figure had risen, as it seemed to me, out of the
ground and asked huskily whether he could help me. I had only a few steps to go, but he seized
my burden and went in front of me. I submitted. I told him my door and he entered the dark
passage, climbed the rickety stairs and entered my room. Here we were both astonished. He,
when I had lighted my lamp, was staggered by the splendour and luxury of my life, I, as I looked
at him, by the wildness and uncouthness of his appearance. He was as a savage from the centre
of Africa, thick ragged hair and beard, a powerful body in rags, and his whole attitude to
the world primeval and utterly primitive. His mouth was cruel; his eyes, as almost always with
the Russian peasant, mild and kindly. I do not intend to take up much space here with an account
of him, but he did, after this first meeting, in some sort attach himself to me. I never learned
his name nor where he lived; he was I should suppose an absolutely abominable plunderer and
pirate and ruffian. He would appear suddenly in my room, stand by the door and talk--but talk
with the ignorance, naïvete, brutal simplicity of an utterly abandoned baby. Nothing mystical
or beautiful about the Rat. He did not disguise from me in the least that there was no crime
that he had not committed--murder, rape, arson, immorality of the most hideous, sacrilege,
the basest betrayal of his best friends--he was not only savage and outlaw, he was deliberate
anarchist and murderer. He had no redeeming point that I could anywhere discover. I did not
in the least mind his entering my room when he pleased. I had there nothing of any value; he
could take my life even, had he a mind to that.... The naïve abysmal depths of his depravity
interested me. He formed a kind of attachment to me. He told me that he would do anything for
me. He had a strange tact which prevented him from intruding upon me when I was occupied. He
was as quick as any cultured civilised cosmopolitan to see if he was not wanted. He developed
a certain cleanliness; he told me, with an air of disdainful superiority, that he had been
to the public baths. I gave him an old suit of mine and a pair of boots. He very seldom asked
for anything; once and again he would point to something and say that he would like to have
it; if I said that he could not he expressed no disappointment; sometimes he stole it, but
he always acknowledged that he had done so if I asked him, although he would lie stupendously
on other occasions for no reason at all.

"Now you must bring that back," I would say sternly.

"Oh no, Barin.... Why? You have so many things. Surely you will not object. Perhaps I will
bring it--and perhaps not."

"You must certainly bring it," I would say.

"We will see," he would say, smiling at me in the friendliest fashion.

He was the only absolutely happy Russian I have ever known. He had no passages of despair.
He had been in prison, he would be in prison again. He had spasms of the most absolute ferocity.
On one occasion I thought that I should be his next victim, and for a moment my fate hung,
I think, in the balance. But he changed his mind. He had a real liking for me, I think. When
he could get it, he drank a kind of furniture polish, the only substitute in these days for
vodka. This was an absolutely killing drink, and I tried to prove to him that frequent indulgence
in it meant an early decease. That did not affect him in the least. Death had no horror for
him although, I foresaw, with justice as after events proved, that if he were faced with it
he would be a very desperate coward. He liked very much my cigarettes, and I gave him these
on condition that he did not spit sunflower seeds over my floor. He kept his word about this.

He chatted incessantly, and sometimes I listened and sometimes not. He had no politics and
was indeed comfortably ignorant of any sort of geography or party division. There were for
him only the rich and the poor. He knew nothing about the war, but he hoped, he frankly told
me, that there would be anarchy in Petrograd, so that he might rob and plunder.

"I will look after you then, Barin," he answered me, "so that no one shall touch you." I thanked
him. He was greatly amused by my Russian accent, although he had no interest in the fact that
I was English, nor did he want to hear in the least about London or any foreign town. Marfa,
my old servant, was, of course, horrified at this acquaintanceship of mine, and warned me that
it would mean both my death and hers. He liked to tease and frighten her, but he was never
rude to her and offered sometimes to help her with her work, an offer that she always indignantly
refused. He had some children, he told me, but he did not know where they were. He tried to
respect my hospitality, never bringing any friends of his with him, and only once coming when
he was the worse for drink. On that occasion he cried and endeavoured to embrace me. He apologised
for this the next day.

They would try to take him soon, he supposed, for a soldier, but he thought that he would be
able to escape. He hated the Police, and would murder them all if he could. He told me great
tales of their cruelty, and he cursed them most bitterly. I pointed out to him that society
must be protected, but he did not see why this need be so. It was, he thought, wrong that some
people had so much and others so little, but this was as far as his social investigations penetrated.

He was really distressed by my illness. Marfa told me that one day when I was delirious he
cried. At the same time he pointed out to her that, if I died, certain things in my rooms would
be his. He liked a silver cigarette case of mine, and my watch chain, and a signet ring that
I wore. I saw him vaguely, an uncertain shadow in the mists of the first days of my fever.
I was not, I suppose, in actual fact, seriously ill, and yet I abandoned myself to my fate,
allowing myself to slip without the slightest attempt at resistance, along the easiest way,
towards death or idiocy or paralysis, towards anything that meant the indifferent passivity
of inaction. I had bad, confused dreams. The silence irritated me. I fancied to myself that
the sea ought to make some sound, that it was holding itself deliberately quiescent in preparation
for some event. I remember that Marfa and the doctor prevented me from rising to look from
my window that I might see why the sea was not roaring. Some one said to me in my dreams something
about "Ice," and again and again I repeated the word to myself as though it were intensely
significant. "Ice! Ice! Ice!... Yes, that was what I wanted to know!" My idea from this was
that the floor upon which I rested was exceedingly thin, made only of paper in fact, and that
at any moment it might give way and precipitate me upon the ice. This terrified me, and the
way that the cold blew up through the cracks in the floor was disturbing enough. I knew that
my doctor thought me mad to remain in such a place. But above all I was overwhelmed by the
figure of Semyonov. He haunted me in all my dreams, his presence never left me for a single
instant. I could not be sure whether he were in the room or no, but certainly he was close
to me... watching me, sneering at me as he had so often done before.

I was conscious also of Petrograd, of the town itself, in every one of its amazingly various
manifestations. I saw it all laid out as though I were a great height above it--the fashionable
streets, the Nevski and the Morskaia with the carriages and the motor-cars and trams, the kiosks
and the bazaars, the women with their baskets of apples, the boys with the newspapers, the
smart cinematographs, the shop in the Morskaia with the coloured stones in the window, the
oculist and the pastry-cook's and the hairdressers and the large "English shop" at the corner
of the Nevski, and Pivato's the restaurant, and close beside it the art shop with popular post
cards and books on Serov and Vrubel, and the Astoria Hotel with its shining windows staring
on to S. Isaac's Square. And I saw the Nevski, that straight and proud street, filled with
every kind of vehicle and black masses of people, rolling like thick clouds up and down, here
and there, the hum of their talk rising like mist from the snow. And there was the Kazan Cathedral,
haughty and proud, and the book shop with the French books and complete sets of Tchekov and
Merejkowsky in the window, and the bridges and the palaces and the square before the Alexander
Theatre, and Elisseieff's the provision shop, and all the banks, and the shops with gloves
and shirts, all looking ill-fitting as though they were never meant to be worn, and then the
little dirty shops poked in between the grand ones, the shop with rubber goods and the shop
with an Aquarium, gold-fish and snails and a tortoise, and the shop with oranges and bananas.
Then, too, there was the Arcade with the theatre where they acted Romance and Potash and Perlmutter
(almost as they do in London), and on the other side of the street, at the corner of the Sadovia,
the bazaar with all its shops and its trembling mist of people. I watched the Nevski, and saw
how it slipped into the Neva with the Red Square on one side of it, and S. Isaac's Square on
the other, and the great station at the far end of it, and about these two lines the Neva and
the Nevski, the whole town sprawled and crept, ebbed and flowed. Away from the splendour it
stretched, dirty and decrepit and untended, here piles of evil flats, there old wooden buildings
with cobbled courts, and the canals twisting and creeping up and down through it all. It was
all bathed, as I looked down upon it, in coloured mist. The air was purple and gold and light
blue, fading into the snow and ice and transforming it. Everywhere there were the masts of
ships and the smell of the sea and rough deserted places--and shadows moved behind the shadows,
and yet more shadows behind them, so that it was all uncertain and unstable, and only the river
knew what it was about.

Over the whole town Semyonov and I moved together, and the ice and snow silenced our steps,
and no one in the whole place spoke a word, so that we had to lower our voices and whispered....

XV

Suddenly I was better. I quite recovered from my fever and only lay still on my bed, weak,
and very hungry. I was happy, happy as I had not been since I came to Petrograd. I felt all
the luxury of convalescence creeping into my bones. All that I need do was to lie there and
let people feed me and read a little if it did not make my head ache. I had a water-colour
painted by Alexander Benois on the wall opposite me, a night in the Caucasus, with a heavy
sweep of black hill, a deep blue steady sky, and a thin grey road running into endless distance.
A pleasing picture, with no finality in its appeal--intimate too, so that it was one's own
road and one's own hill. I had bought it extravagantly, at last year's "Mir Eskoustva," and
now I was pleased at my extravagance.

Marfa was very good to me, feeding me, and being cross with me to make me take an interest
in things, and acting with wonderful judgement about my visitors. Numbers of people, English
and Russian, came to see me--I had not known that I had so many friends. I felt amiable to
all the world, and hopeful about it, too. I looked back on the period before my illness as
a bad dream.

People told me I was foolish to live out in this wretched place of mine, where it was cold
and wild and lonely. And then when they came again they were not so sure, and they looked out
on the ice that shone in waves and shadows of light under the sun, and thought that perhaps
they too would try. But of course, I knew well that they would not....

As I grew stronger I felt an intense and burning interest in the history that had been developing
when I fell ill. I heard that Vera Michailovna and Nina had called many times. Markovitch had
been, and Henry Bohun and Lawrence.

Then, one sunny afternoon, Henry Bohun came in and I was surprised at my pleasure at the sight
of him. He was shocked at the change in me, and was too young to conceal it.

"Oh, you do look bad!" were his first words as he sat down by my bed. "I say, are you comfortable
here? Wouldn't you rather be somewhere with conveniences--telephone and lifts and things?"

"Not at all!" I answered. "I've got a telephone. I'm very happy where I am."

"It is a queer place," he said. "Isn't it awfully unhealthy?"

"Quite the reverse--with the sea in front of it! About the healthiest spot in Petrograd!"

"But I should get the blues here. So lonely and quiet. Petrograd is a strange town! Most people
don't dream there's a queer place like this."

"That's why I like it," I said. "I expect there are lots of queer places in Petrograd if you
only knew."

He wandered about the room, looking at my few pictures and my books and my writing-table. At
last he sat down again by my bed.

"Now tell me all the news," I said.

"News?" he asked. He looked uncomfortable, and I saw at once that he had come to confide something
in me. "What sort of news? Political?"

"Anything."

"Well, politics are about the same. They say there's going to be an awful row in February when
the Duma meets--but then other people say there won't be a row at all until the war is over."

"What else do they say?"

"They say Protopopoff is up to all sorts of tricks. That he says prayers with the Empress and
they summon Rasputin's ghost.... That's all rot of course. But he does just what the Empress
tells him, and they're going to enslave the whole country and hand it over to Germany."

"What will they do that for?" I asked.

"Why, then, the Czarevitch will have it--under Germany. They say that none of the munitions
are going to the Front, and Protopopoff's keeping them all to blow up the people here with."

"What else?" I asked sarcastically.

"No, but really, there's something in it, I expect." Henry looked serious and important. "Then
on the other hand, Clutton-Davies says the Czar's absolutely all right, dead keen on the war
and hates Germany... I don't know--but Clutton-Davies sees him nearly every day."

"Anything else?" I asked.

"Oh, food's worse than ever! Going up every day, and the bread queues are longer and longer.
The Germans have spies in the queues, women who go up and down telling people it's all England's
fault."

"And people are just the same?"

"Just the same; Donons' and the Bear are crowded every day. You can't get a table. So are the
cinematographs and the theatres. I went to the Ballet last night."

"What was it?"

"'La fille mal gardée'--Karsavina dancing divinely. Every one was there."

This closed the strain of public information. I led him further.

"Well, Bohun, what about our friends the Markovitches?" I asked. "How are you getting on there?"

He blushed and looked at his boots.

"All right," he said. "They're very decent."

Then he burst out with: "I say, Durward, what do you think of this uncle that's turned up,
the doctor chap?"

"Nothing particular. Why?"

"You were with him at the Front, weren't you?"

"I was."

"Was he a good doctor?"

"Excellent."

"He had a love affair at the Front, hadn't he?"

"Yes."

"And she was killed?"

"Yes."

"Poor devil...." Then he added: "Did he mind very much?"

"Very much."

"Funny thing, you wouldn't think he would."

"Why not," I asked.

"Oh, he looks a hard sort of fellow--as though he'd stand anything. I wouldn't like to have
a row with him."

"Has he been to the Markovitches much lately?"

"Yes--almost every evening."

"What does he do there?"

"Oh, just sits and talks. Markovitch can't bear him. You can see that easily enough. He teases
him."

"How do you mean?" I asked.

"Oh, he laughs at him all the time, at his inventions and that kind of thing. Markovitch gets
awfully wild. He is bit of an ass, isn't he?"

"Do you like Semyonov?" I asked.

"I do rather," said Henry. "He's very decent to me. I had a walk with him one afternoon. He
said you were awfully brave at the Front."

"Thank him for nothing," I said.

"And he said you didn't like him--don't you?"

"Ah, that's too old a story," I answered. "We know what we feel about one another."

"Well, Lawrence simply hates him," continued Bohun. "He says he's the most thundering cad,
and as bad as you make them. I don't see how he can tell."

This interested me extremely. "When did he tell you this?" I asked.

"Yesterday. I asked him what he had to judge by and he said instinct. I said he'd no right
to go only by that."

"Has Lawrence been much to the Markovitches?"

"Yes--once or twice. He just sits there and never opens his mouth."

"Very wise of him if he hasn't got anything to say."

"No, but really--do you think so? It doesn't make him popular."

"Why, who doesn't like him?"

"Nobody," answered Henry ungrammatically. "None of the English anyway. They can't stand him
at the Embassy or the Mission. They say he's fearfully stuck-up and thinks about nothing but
himself.... I don't agree, of course--all the same, he might make himself more agreeable to
people."

"What nonsense!" I answered hotly. "Lawrence is one of the best fellows that ever breathed.
The Markovitches don't dislike him, do they?"

"No, he's quite different with them. Vera Michailovna likes him I know."

It was the first time that he had mentioned her name to me. He turned towards me now, his face
crimson. "I say--that's really what I came to talk about, Durward. I care for her madly!...
I'd die for her. I would really. I love her, Durward. I see now I've never loved anybody before."

"Well, what will you do about it?"

"Do about it?... Why nothing, of course. It's all perfectly hopeless. In the first place, there's
Markovitch."

"Yes. There's Markovitch," I agreed.

"She doesn't care for him--does she? You know that--" He waited, eagerly staring into my face.

I had a temptation to laugh. He was so very young, so very helpless, and yet--that sense of
his youth had pathos in it too, and I suddenly liked young Bohun--for the first time.

"Look here, Bohun," I said, trying to speak with a proper solemnity. "Don't be a young ass.
You know that it's hopeless, any feeling of that kind. She does care for her husband. She could
never care for you in that way, and you'd only make trouble for them all if you went on with
it.... On the other hand, she needs a friend badly. You can do that for her. Be her pal. See
that things are all right in the house. Make a friend of Markovitch himself. Look after him!"

"Look after Markovitch!" Bohun exclaimed.

"Yes... I don't want to be melodramatic, but there's trouble coming there; and if you're the
friend of them all, you can help--more than you know. Only none of the other business--"

Bohun flushed. "She doesn't know--she never will. I only want to be a friend of hers, as you
put it. Anything else is hopeless, of course. I'm not the kind of fellow she'd ever look at,
even if Markovitch wasn't there. But if I can do anything... I'd be awfully glad. What kind
of trouble do you mean?" he asked.

"Probably nothing," I said; "only she wants a friend. And Markovitch wants one too."

There was a pause--then Bohun said, "I say, Durward--what an awful ass I was."

"What about?" I asked.

"About my poetry--and all that. Thinking it so important."

"Yes," I said, "you were."

"I've written some poetry to her and I tore it up," he ended.

"That's a good thing," said I.

"I'm glad I told you," he said. He got up to go. "I say, Durward--"

"Well," I asked.

"You're an awfully funny chap. Not a bit what you look--"

"That's all right," I said; "I know what you mean."

"Well, good-night," he said, and went.

XVI

I thought that night, as I lay cosily in my dusky room, of those old stories by Wilkie Collins
that had once upon a time so deeply engrossed my interest--stories in which, because some one
has disappeared on a snowy night, or painted his face blue, or locked up a room and lost the
key, or broken down in his carriage on a windy night at the cross-roads, dozens of people are
involved, diaries are written, confessions are made, and all the characters move along different
roads towards the same lighted, comfortable Inn. That is the kind of story that intrigues me,
whether it be written about out-side mysteries by Wilkie Collins or inside mysteries by the
great creator of "The Golden Bowl" or mysteries of both kinds, such as Henry Galleon has given
us. I remember a friend of mine, James Maradick, once saying to me, "It's no use trying to
keep out of things. As soon as they want to put you in--you're in. The moment you're born,
you're done for."

It's just that spectacle of some poor innocent being suddenly caught into some affair, against
his will, without his knowledge, but to the most serious alteration of his character and fortunes,
that one watches with a delight almost malicious--whether it be The Woman in White, The Wings
of the Dove, or The Roads that offer it us. Well, I had now to face the fact that something
of this kind had happened to myself.

I was drawn in--and I was glad. I luxuriated in my gladness, lying there in my room under the
wavering, uncertain light of two candles, hearing the church bells clanging and echoing mysteriously
beyond the wall. I lay there with a consciousness of being on the very verge of some adventure,
with the assurance, too, that I was to be of use once more, to play my part, to fling aside,
thank God, that old cloak of apathetic disappointment, of selfish betrayal, of cynical disbelief.
Semyonov had brought the old life back to me and I had shrunk from the impact of it; but he
had brought back to me, too, the presences of my absent friends who, during these weary months,
had been lost to me. It seemed to me that, in the flickering twilight, John and Marie were
bringing forward to me Vera and Nina and Jerry and asking me to look after them.... I would
do my best.

And while I was thinking of these things Vera Michailovna came in. She was suddenly in the
room, standing there, her furs up to her throat, her body in shadow, but her large, grave eyes
shining through the candlelight, her mouth smiling.

"Is it all right?" she said, coming forward. "I'm not in the way? You're not sleeping?"

I told her that I was delighted to see her.

"I've been almost every day, but Marfa told me you were not well enough. She does guard you--like
a dragon. But to-night Nina and I are going to Rozanov's, to a party, and she said she'd meet
me here.... Shan't I worry you?"

"Worry me! You're the most restful friend I have--" I felt so glad to see her that I was surprised
at my own happiness. She sat down near to me, very quietly, moving, as she always did, softly
and surely.

I could see that she was distressed because I looked ill, but she asked me no tiresome questions,
said nothing about my madness in living as I did (always so irritating, as though I were a
stupid child), praised the room, admired the Benois picture, and then talked in her soft, kindly
voice.

"We've missed you so much, Nina and I," she said. "I told Nina that if she came to-night she
wasn't to make a noise and disturb you."

"She can make as much noise as she likes," I said. "I like the right kind of noise."

We talked a little about politics and England and anything that came into our minds. We both
felt, I know, a delightful, easy intimacy and friendliness and trust. I had never with any
other woman felt such a sense of friendship, something almost masculine in its comradeship
and honesty. And to-night this bond between us strengthened wonderfully. I blessed my luck.
I saw that there were dark lines under her eyes and that she was pale.

"You're tired," I said.

"Yes, I am," she acknowledged. "And I don't know why. At least, I do know. I'm going to use
you selfishly, Durdles. I'm going to tell you all my troubles and ask your help in every possible
way. I'm going to let you off nothing."

I took her hand.

"I'm proud," I said, "now and always."

"Do you know that I've never asked any one's help before? I was rather conceited that I could
get on always without it. When I was very small I wouldn't take a word of advice from any one,
and mother and father, when I was tiny, used to consult me about everything. Then they were
killed and I had to go on alone.... And after that, when I married Nicholas, it was I again
who decided everything. And my mistakes taught me nothing. I didn't want them to teach me."

She spoke that last word fiercely, and through the note that came into her voice I saw suddenly
the potentialities that were in her, the other creature that she might be if she were ever
awakened.

She talked then for a long time. She didn't move at all; her head rested on her hand and her
eyes watched me. As I listened I thought of my other friend Marie, who now was dead, and how
restless she was when she spoke, moving about the room, stopping to demand my approval, protesting
against my criticism, laughing, crying out.... Vera was so still, so wise, too, in comparison
with Marie, braver too--and yet the same heart, the same charity, the same nobility.

But she was my friend, and Marie I had loved.... The difference in that! And how much easier
now to help than it had been then, simply because one's own soul was one's own and one stood
by oneself!

How happy a thing freedom is--and how lonely!

She told me many things that I need not repeat here, but, as she talked, I saw how, far more
deeply than I had imagined, Nina had been the heart of the whole of her life. She had watched
over her, protected her, advised her, warned her, and loved her, passionately, jealously, almost
madly all the time.

"When I married Nicholas," she said, "I thought of Nina more than any one else. That was wrong....
I ought to have thought most of Nicholas; but I knew that I could give her a home, that she
could have everything she wanted. And still she would be with me. Nicholas was only too ready
for that. I thought I would care for her until some one came who was worthy of her, and who
would look after her far better than I ever could.

"But the only person who had come was Boris Grogoff. He loved Nina from the first moment, in
his own careless, conceited, opinionated way."

"Why did you let him come so often to the house if you didn't approve of him?" I asked.

"How could I prevent it?" she asked me. "We Russians are not like the English. In England I
know you just shut the door and say, 'Not at home.'

"Here if any one wanted to come he comes. Very often we hate him for coming, but still there
it is. It is too much trouble to turn him out, besides it wouldn't be kind--and anyway they
wouldn't go. You can be as rude as you like here and nobody cares. For a long while Nina paid
no attention to Boris. She doesn't like him. She will never like him, I'm sure. But now, these
last weeks, I've begun to be afraid. In some way, he has power over her--not much power, but
a little--and she is so young, so ignorant--she knows nothing.

"Until lately she always told me everything. Now she tells me nothing. She's strange with me;
angry for nothing. Then sorry and sweet again--then suddenly angry.... She's excited and wild,
going out all the time, but unhappy too.... I know she's unhappy. I can feel it as though it
were myself."

"You're imagining things," I said. "Now when the war's reached this period we're all nervous
and overstrung. The atmosphere of this town is enough to make any one fancy that they see anything.
Nina's all right."

"I'm losing her! I'm losing her!" Vera cried, suddenly stretching out her hand as though in
a gesture of appeal. "She must stay with me. I don't know what's happening to her. Ah, and
I'm so lonely without her!"

There was silence between us for a little, and then she went on.

"Durdles, I did wrong to marry Nicholas--wrong to Nina, wrong to Nicholas, wrong to myself,
I thought it was right. I didn't love Nicholas--I never loved him and I never pretended to.
He knew that I did not. But I thought then that I was above love, that knowledge was what mattered.
Ideas--saving the world--and he had such ideas! Wonderful! There was, I thought, nothing that
he would not be able to do if only he were helped enough. He wanted help in every way. He was
such a child, so unhappy, so lonely, I thought that I could give him everything that he needed.
Don't fancy that I thought that I sacrificed myself. I felt that I was the luckiest girl in
all the world--and still, now when I see that he is not strong enough for his ideas I care
for him as I did then, and I would never let any trouble touch him if I could help it. But
if--if--"

She paused, turned away from me, looking towards the window.

"If, after all, I was wrong. If, after all, I was meant to love. If love were to come now...
real love... now...."

She broke off, suddenly stood up, and very low, almost whispering, said:

"I have fancied lately that it might come. And then, what should I do? Oh, what should I do?
With Nicholas and Nina and all the trouble there is now in the world--and Russia--I'm afraid
of myself--and ashamed...."

I could not speak. I was utterly astonished. Could it be Bohun of whom she was speaking? No,
I saw at once that the idea was ludicrous. But if not--.

I took her hand.

"Vera," I said. "Believe me. I'm much older than you, and I know. Love's always selfish, always
cruel to others, always means trouble, sorrow, and disappointment. But it's worth it, even
when it brings complete disaster. Life isn't life without it."

I felt her hand tremble in mine.

"I don't know," she said, "I know nothing of it, except my love for Nina. It isn't that now
there's anybody. Don't think that. There is no one--no one. Only my self-confidence is gone.
I can't see clearly any more. My duty is to Nina and Nicholas. And if they are happy nothing
else matters--nothing. And I'm afraid that I'm going to do them harm."

She paused as though she were listening. "There's no one there, is there?" she asked me--"there
by the door?"

"No--no one."

"There are so many noises in this house. Don't they disturb you?"

"I don't think of them now. I'm used to them--and in fact I like them."

She went on: "It's Uncle Alexei of course. He comes to see us nearly every day. He's very pleasant,
more pleasant than he has ever been before, but he has a dreadful effect on Nicholas--"

"I know the effect he can have," I said.

"I know that Nicholas has been feeling for a long time that his inventions are no use. He will
never own it to me or to any one--but I can tell. I know it so well. The war came and his new
feeling about Russia carried him along. He put everything into that. Now that has failed him,
and he despises himself for having expected it to do otherwise. He's raging about, trying to
find something that he can believe in, and Uncle Alexei knows that and plays on that.... He
teases him; he drives him wild and then makes him happy again. He can do anything with him
he pleases. He always could. But now he has some plan. I used to think that he simply laughed
at people because it amused him to see how weak they can be. But now there's more than that.
He's been hurt himself at last, and that has hurt his pride, and he wants to hurt back....
It's all in the dark. The war's in the dark... everything...." Then she smiled and put her
hand on my arm. "That's why I've come to you, because I trust you and believe you and know
you say what you mean."

Once before Marie had said those same words to me. It was as though I heard her voice again.

"I won't fail you," I said.

There was a knock on the door, it was flung open as though by the wind, and Nina was with us.
Her face was rosy with the cold, her eyes laughed under her little round fur cap. She came
running across the room, pulled herself up with a little cry beside the bed, and then flung
herself upon me, throwing her arms around my neck and kissing me.

"My dear Nina!" cried Vera.

She looked up, laughing.

"Why not? Poor Durdles. Are you better? Biédnie... give me your hands. But--how cold they are!
And there are draughts everywhere. I've brought you some chocolates--and a book."

"My dear!..." Vera cried again. "He won't like that," pointing to a work of fiction by a modern
Russian literary lady whose heart and brain are of the succulent variety.

"Why not? She's very good. It's lovely! All about impossible people! Durdles, dear! I'll give
up the party. We won't go. We'll sit here and entertain you. I'll send Boris away. We'll tell
him we don't want him."

"Boris!" cried Vera.

"Yes," Nina laughed a little uneasily, I thought. "I know you said he wasn't to come. He'll
quarrel with Rozanov of course. But he said he would. And so how was one to prevent him? You're
always so tiresome, Vera.... I'm not a baby now, nor is Boris. If he wants to come he shall come."

Vera stood away from us both. I could see that she was very angry. I had never seen her angry
before.

"You know that it's impossible, Nina," she said. "You know that Rozanov hates him. And besides--there
are other reasons. You know them perfectly well, Nina."

Nina stood there pouting, tears were in her eyes.

"You're unfair," she said. "You don't let me do anything. You give me no freedom, I don't care
for Boris, but if he wants to go he shall go. I'm grown up now. You have your Lawrence. Let
me have my Boris."

"My Lawrence?" asked Vera.

"Yes. You know that you're always wanting him to come--always looking for him. I like him,
too. I like him very much. But you never let me talk to him. You never--"

"Quiet, Nina." Vera's voice was trembling. Her face was sterner than I'd ever seen it. "You're
making me angry."

"I don't care how angry I make you. It's true. You're impossible now. Why shouldn't I have
my friends? I've nobody now. You never let me have anybody. And I like Mr. Lawrence--"

She began to sob, looking the most desolate figure.

Vera turned.

"You don't know what you've said, Nina, nor how you've hurt.... You can go to your party as
you please--"

And before I could stop her she was gone.

Nina turned to me a breathless, tearful face. She waited; we heard the door below closed.

"Oh, Durdles, what have I done?"

"Go after her! Stop her!" I said.

Nina vanished and I was alone. My room was intensely quiet.

XVII

They didn't come to see me again together. Vera came twice, kind and good as always, but with
no more confidences; and Nina once with flowers and fruit and a wild chattering tongue about
the cinemas and Smyrnov, who was delighting the world at the Narodny Dom, and the wonderful
performance of Lermontov's "Masquerade" that was shortly to take place at the Alexander Theatre.

"Are you and Vera friends again?" I asked her.

"Oh yes! Why not?" And she went on, snapping a chocolate almond between her teeth--"The one
at the 'Piccadilly' is the best. It's an Italian one, and there's a giant in it who throws
people all over the place, out of windows and everywhere. Ah! how lovely!... I wish I could
go every night."

"You ought to be helping with the war," I said severely.

"Oh, I hate the war!" she answered. "We're all terribly tired of it. Tanya's given up going
to the English hospital now, and is just meaning to be as gay as she can be; and Zinaida Fyodorovna
had just come back from her Otriad on the Galician front, and she says it's shocking there
now--no food or dancing or anything. Why doesn't every one make peace?"

"Do you want the Germans to rule Russia?" I asked.

"Why not?" she said, laughing. "We can't do it ourselves. We don't care who does it. The English
can do it if they like, only they're too lazy to bother. The German's aren't lazy, and if they
were here we'd have lots of theatres and cinematographs."

"Don't you love your country?" I asked.

"This isn't our country," she answered. "It just belongs to the Empress and Protopopoff."

"Supposing it became your country and the Emperor went?"

"Oh, then it would belong to a million different people, and in the end no one would have anything.
Can't you see how they'd fight?"... She burst out laughing: "Boris and Nicholas and Uncle Alexei
and all the others!"

Then she was suddenly serious.

"I know, Durdles, you consider that I'm so young and frivolous that I don't think of anything
serious. But I can see things like any one else. Can't you see that we're all so disappointed
with ourselves that nothing matters? We thought the war was going to be so fine--but now it's
just like the Japanese one, all robbery and lies--and we can't do anything to stop it."

"Perhaps some day some one will," I said.

"Oh yes!" she answered scornfully, "men like Boris."

After that she refused to be grave for a moment, danced about the room, singing, and finally
vanished, a whirlwind of blue silk.

       *       *       *       *       *

A week later I was out in the world again. That curious sense of excitement that had first
come to me during the early days of my illness burnt now more fiercely than ever. I cannot
say what it was exactly that I thought was going to happen. I have often looked back, as many
other people must have done, to those days in February and wondered whether I foresaw anything
of what was to come, and what were the things that might have seemed to me significant if I
had noticed them. And here I am deliberately speaking of both public and private affairs. I
cannot quite frankly dissever the two. At the Front, a year and a half before, I had discovered
how intermingled the souls of individuals and the souls of countries were, and how permanent
private history seemed to me and how transient public events; but whether that was true or
no before, it was now most certain that it was the story of certain individuals that I was
to record,--the history that was being made behind them could at its best be only a background.

I seemed to step into a city ablaze with a sinister glory. If that appears melodramatic I can
only say that the dazzling winter weather of those weeks was melodramatic. Never before had
I seen the huge buildings tower so high, never before felt the shadows so vast, the squares
and streets so limitless in their capacity for swallowing light and colour. The sky was a bitter
changeless blue; the buildings black; the snow and ice, glittering with purple and gold, swept
by vast swinging shadows as though huge doors opened and shut in heaven, or monstrous birds
hovered, their wings spread, motionless in the limitless space.

And all this had, as ever, nothing to do with human life. The little courtyards with their
woodstacks and their coloured houses, carts and the cobbled squares and the little stumpy trees
that bordered the canals and the little wooden huts beside the bridges with their candles and
fruit--these were human and friendly and good, but they had their precarious condition like
the rest of us.

On the first afternoon of my new liberty I found myself in the Nevski Prospect, bewildered
by the crowds and the talk and trams and motors and carts that passed in unending sequence
up and down the long street. Standing at the corner of the Sadovia and the Nevski one was carried
straight to the point of the golden spire that guarded the farther end of the great street.
All was gold, the surface of the road was like a golden stream, the canal was gold, the thin
spire caught into its piercing line all the colour of the swiftly fading afternoon; the wheels
of the carriages gleamed, the flower-baskets of the women glittered like shining foam, the
snow flung its crystal colour into the air like thin fire dim before the sun. The street seemed
to have gathered on to its pavements the citizens of every country under the sun. Tartars,
Mongols, Little Russians, Chinamen, Japanese, French officers, British officers, peasants and
fashionable women, schoolboys, officials, actors and artists and business men and priests and
sailors and beggars and hawkers and, guarding them all, friendly, urbane, filled with a pleasant
self-importance that seemed at that hour the simplest and easiest of attitudes, the Police.
"Rum--rum--rum--whirr--whirr--whirr--whirr"--like the regular beat of a shuttle the hum rose
and fell, as the sun faded into rosy mist and white vapours stole above the still canals.

I turned to go home and felt some one touch my elbow.

I swung round and there, his broad face ruddy with the cold, was Jerry Lawrence.

I was delighted to see him and told him so.

"Well, I'm damned glad," he said gruffly. "I thought you might have a grudge against me."

"A grudge?" I said. "Why?"

"Haven't been to see you. Heard you were ill, but didn't think you'd want me hanging round."

"Why this modesty?" I asked.

"No--well--you know what I mean." He shuffled his feet. "No good in a sick-room."

"Mine wasn't exactly a sick-room," I said. "But I heard that you did come."

"Yes. I came twice," he answered, looking at me shyly. "Your old woman wouldn't let me see you."

"Never mind that," I said; "let's have an evening together soon."

"Yes--as soon as you like." He looked up and down the street. "There are some things I'd like
to ask your advice about."

"Certainly," I said.

"What do you say to coming and dining at my place? Ever met Wilderling?"

"Wilderling?" I could not remember for the moment the name.

"Yes--the old josser I live with. Fine old man--got a point of view of his own!"

"Delighted," I said.

"To-morrow. Eight o'clock. Don't dress."

He was just going off when he turned again.

"Awfully glad you're better," he said. He cleared his throat, looked at me in a very friendly
way, then smiled.

"Awfully glad you're better," he repeated, then went off, rolling his broad figure into the
evening mist.

I turned towards home.

XVIII

I arrived at the Baron's punctually at eight o'clock. His flat was in a small side street off
the English Quay. I paused for a moment, before turning into its dark recesses, to gather in
the vast expanse of the frozen river and the long white quay. It was as though I had found
my way behind a towering wall that now closed me in with a smile of contemptuous derision.
There was no sound in the shining air and the only figure was a guard who moved monotonously
up and down outside the Winter Palace.

I rang the bell and the "Schwitzer," bowing very ceremoniously, told me the flat was on the
second floor. I went up a broad stone staircase and found a heavy oak door with brass nails
confronting me. When this slowly swung open I discovered a very old man with white hair bowing
before me. He was a splendid figure in a uniform of dark blue, his tall thin figure straight
and slim, his white moustaches so neat and fierce that they seemed to keep guard over the rest
of his face as though they warned him that they would stand no nonsense. There was an air of
hushed splendour behind him, and I could hear the heavy, solemn ticking of a clock keeping
guard over all the austere sanctities of the place. When I had taken off my Shuba and goloshes
I was ushered into a magnificent room with a high gold clock on the mantlepiece, gilt chairs,
heavy dark carpets and large portraits frowning from the grey walls. The whole room was bitterly
silent, save for the tick of the clock. There was no fire in the fireplace, but a large gleaming
white stove flung out a close scented heat from the further corner of the room. There were
two long glass bookcases, some little tables with gilt legs, and a fine Japanese screen of
dull gold. The only other piece of furniture was a huge grand piano near the window.

I sat down and was instantly caught into the solemn silence. There was something threatening
in the hush of it all. "We do what we're told," the clock seemed to say, "and so must you."
I thought of the ice and snow beyond the windows, and, in spite of myself, shivered.

Then the door opened and the Baron came in. He stood for a moment by the door, staring in front
of him as though he could not penetrate the heavy and dusky air, and seen thus, under the height
and space of the room, he seemed so small as to be almost ridiculous. But he was not ridiculous
for long. As he approached one was struck at once by the immaculate efficiency that followed
him like a protecting shadow. In himself he was a scrupulously neat old man with weary and
dissipated eyes, but behind the weariness, the neatness, and dissipation was a spirit of indomitable
determination and resolution. He wore a little white Imperial and a long white moustache. His
hair was brushed back and his forehead shone like marble. He wore a black suit, white spats,
and long, pointed, black patent-leather shoes. He had the smallest feet I have ever seen on
any man.

He greeted me with great courtesy. His voice was soft, and he spoke perfect English, save for
a very slight accent that was rather charming; this gave his words a certain naïvete. He rubbed
his hands and smiled in a gentle but determined way, as though he meant no harm by it, but
had decided that it was a necessary thing to do. I forget of what we talked, but I know that
I surrendered myself at once to an atmosphere that had been strange to me for so long that
I had almost forgotten its character--an atmosphere of discipline, order, comfort, and above
all, of security. My mind flew to the Markovitches, and I smiled to myself at the thought of
the contrast.

Then, strangely, when I had once thought of the Markovitch flat the picture haunted me for
the rest of the evening. I could see the Baron's gilt chairs and gold clock, his little Imperial
and shining shoes only through the cloudy disorder of the Markovitch tables and chairs. There
was poor Markovitch in his dark little room perched on his chair with his boots, with his hands,
with his hair... and there was poor Uncle and there poor Vera.... Why was I pitying them? I
gloried in them. That is Russia... This is....

"Allow me to introduce you to my wife," the Baron said, bending forward, the very points of
his toes expressing amiability.

The Baroness was a large solid lady with a fine white bosom and strong white arms. Her face
was homely and kind; I saw at once that she adored her husband; her placid smile carried beneath
its placidity a tremulous anxiety that he should be pleased, and her mild eyes swam in the
light of his encouragement. I was sure, however, that the calm and discipline that I felt in
the things around me came as much from her domesticity as from his discipline. She was a fortunate
woman in that she had attained the ambition of her life--to govern the household of a man whom
she could both love and fear.

Lawrence came in, and we went through high folding doors into the dining-room. This room had
dark-blue wall-paper, electric lights heavily shaded, and soft heavy carpets. The table itself
was flooded with light--the rest of the room was dusk. I wondered as I looked about me why
the Wilderlings had taken Lawrence as a paying guest. Before my visit I had imagined that they
were poor, as so many of the better-class Russians were, but here were no signs of poverty.
I decided that.

Our dinner was good, and the wine was excellent. We talked, of course, politics, and the Baron
was admirably frank.

"I won't disguise from you, M. Durward," he said, "that some of us watch your English effort
at winning the heart of this country with sympathy, but also, if I am not offending you, with
some humour. I'm not speaking only of your propaganda efforts. You've got, I know, one or two
literary gentlemen here--a novelist, I think, and a professor and a journalist. Well, soon
you'll find them inefficient, and decide that you must have some commercial gentlemen, and
then, disappointed with them, you'll decide for the military... and still the great heart of
Russia will remain untouched."

"Yes," I said, "because your class are determined that the peasant shall remain uneducated,
and until he is educated he will be unable to approach any of us."

"Quite so," said the Baron smiling at me very cheerfully. "I perceive, M. Durward, that you
are a democrat. So are we all, these days.... You look surprised, but I assure you that the
good of the people in the interests of the people is the only thing for which any of us care.
Only some of us know Russia pretty well, and we know that the Russian peasant is not ready
for liberty, and if you were to give him liberty to-night you would plunge his country into
the most desperate torture of anarchy and carnage known in history. A little more soup?--we
are offering you only a slight dinner."

"Yes, but, Baron," I said, "would you tell me when it is intended that the Russian peasant
shall begin his upward course towards light and learning? If that day is to be for ever postponed?"

"It will not be for ever postponed," said the Baron gently. "Let us finish the war, and education
shall be given slowly, under wise direction, to every man, woman, and child in the country.
Our Czar is the most liberal ruler in Europe--and he knows what is good for his children."

"And Protopopoff and Stürmer?" I asked.

"Protopopoff is a zealous, loyal liberal, but he has been made to see during these last months
that Russia is not at this moment ready for freedom. Stürmer--well, M. Stürmer is gone."

"So you, yourself, Baron," I asked, "would oppose at this moment all reform?"

"With every drop of blood in my body," he answered, and his hand flat against the tablecloth
quivered. "At this crisis admit one change and your dyke is burst, your land flooded. Every
Russian is asked at this moment to believe in simple things--his religion, his Czar, his country.
Grant your reforms, and in a week every babbler in the country will be off his head, talking,
screaming, fighting. The Germans will occupy Russia at their own good time, you will be beaten
on the West and civilisation will be set back two hundred years. The only hope for Russia is
unity, and for unity you must have discipline, and for discipline, in Russia at any rate, you
must have an autocracy."

As he spoke the furniture, the grey walls, the heavy carpets, seemed to whisper an echo of
his words: "Unity... Discipline... Discipline... Autocracy... Autocracy... Autocracy...."

"Then tell me, Baron," I said, "if it isn't an impertinent question, do you feel so secure
in your position that you have no fears at all? Does such a crisis, as for instance Milyukoff's
protest last November, mean nothing? You know the discontent.... Is there no fear....?"

"Fear!" He interrupted me, his voice swift and soft and triumphant. "M. Durward, are you so
ignorant of Russia that you consider the outpourings of a few idealistic Intelligentzia, professors
and teachers and poets, as important? What about the people, M. Durward? You ask any peasant
in the Moscow Government, or little Russia, or the Ukraine whether he will remain loyal to
his Little Father or no! Ask--and the question you suggested to me will be answered."

"Then, you feel both secure and justified?" I said.

"We feel both secure and justified"--he answered me, smiling.

After that our conversation was personal and social. Lawrence was very quiet. I observed that
the Baroness had a motherly affection for him, that she saw that he had everything that he
wanted, and that she gave him every now and then little friendly confidential smiles. As the
meal proceeded, as I drank the most excellent wine and the warm austerity of my surroundings
gathered ever more closely around me, I wondered whether after all my apprehensions and forebodings
of the last weeks had not been the merest sick man's cowardice. Surely if any kingdom in the
world was secure, it was this official Russia. I could see it stretching through the space
and silence of that vast land, its servants in every village, its paths and roads all leading
back to the central citadel, its whispered orders flying through the air from district to district,
its judgements, its rewards, its sins, its virtues, resting upon a basis of superstition and
ignorance and apathy, the three sure friends of autocracy through history!

And on the other side--who? The Rat, Boris Grogoff, Markovitch. Yes, the Baron had reason for
his confidence.... I thought for a moment of that figure that I had seen on Christmas Eve by
the river--the strong grave bearded peasant whose gaze had seemed to go so far beyond the bounds
of my own vision. But no! Russia's mystical peasant--that was an old tale. Once, on the Front,
when I had seen him facing the enemy with bare hands, I had, myself, believed it. Now I thought
once more of the Rat--that was the type whom I must now confront.

I had a most agreeable evening. I do not know how long it had been since I had tasted luxury
and comfort and the true fruits of civilisation. The Baron was a most admirable teller of stories,
with a capital sense of humour. After dinner the Baroness left us for half an hour, and the
Baron became very pleasantly Rabelaisian, speaking of his experiences in Paris and London,
Vienna and Berlin so easily and with so ready a wit that the evening flew. The Baroness returned
and, seeing that it was after eleven, I made my farewells. Lawrence said that he would walk
with me down the quay before turning into bed. My host and hostess pressed me to come as often
as possible. The Baron's last words to me were:

"Have no fears, M. Durward. There is much talk in this country, but we are a lazy people."

The "we" rang strangely in my ears.

"He's of course no more a Russian than you or I," I said to Lawrence, as we started down the quay.

"Oh yes, he is!" Lawrence said. "Quite genuine--not a drop of German blood in spite of the
name. But he's a Prussian at heart--a Prussian of the Prussians. By that I don't mean in the
least that he wants Germany to win the war. He doesn't--his interests are all here, and you
mayn't believe me, but I assure you he's a Patriot. He loves Russia, and he wants what's best
for her--and believes that to be Autocracy."

After that Lawrence shut up. He would not say another word. We walked for a long time in silence.
The evening was most beautiful. A golden moon flung the snow into dazzling relief against the
deep black of the palaces. Across the Neva the line of towers and minarets and chimneys ran
like a huge fissure in the golden, light from sky to sky.

"You said there was something you wanted to ask my advice about?"

I broke the silence.

He looked at me with his long slow considering stare. He mumbled something; then, with a sudden
gesture, he gripped my arm, and his heavy body quivering with the urgency of his words he said:

"It's Vera Markovitch.... I'd give my body and soul and spirit for her happiness and safety....
God forgive me, I'd give my country and my honour.... I ache and long for her, so that I'm
afraid for my sanity. I've never loved a woman, nor lusted for one, nor touched one in my whole
life, Durward--and now... and now... I've gone right in. I've spoken no word to any one; but
I couldn't stand my own silence.... Durward, you've got to help me!"

I walked on, seeing the golden light and the curving arc of snow and the little figures moving
like dolls from light to shadow. Lawrence! I had never thought of him as an urgent lover; even
now, although I could still feel his hand quivering on my arm, I could have laughed at the
ludicrous incongruity of romance, and that stolid thick-set figure. And at the same time I
was afraid. Lawrence in love was no boy on the threshold of life like Bohun... here was no
trivial passion. I realised even in that first astonished moment the trouble that might be
in store for all of us.

"Look here, Lawrence!" I said at last. "The first thing that you may as well realise is that
it is hopeless. Vera Michailovna has confided in me a good deal lately, and she is devoted
to her husband, thinks of nothing else. She's simple, naïve, with all her sense and wisdom...."

"Hopeless!" he interrupted, and he gave a kind of grim chuckle of derision. "My dear Durward,
what do you suppose I'm after?... rape and adultery and Markovitch after us with a pistol?
I tell you--" and here he spoke fiercely, as though he were challenging the whole ice-bound
world around us--"that I want nothing but her happiness, her safety, her comfort! Do you suppose
that I'm such an ass as not to recognise the kind of thing that my loving her would lead to?
I tell you I'm after nothing for myself, and that not because I'm a fine unselfish character,
but simply because the thing's too big to let anything into it but herself. She shall never
know that I care twopence about her, but she's got to be happy and she's got to be safe....
Just now, she's neither of those things, and that's why I've spoken to you.... She's unhappy
and she's afraid, and that's got to change. I wouldn't have spoken of this to you if I thought
you'd be so short-sighted...."

"All right! All right!" I said testily. "You may be a kind of Galahad, Lawrence, outside all
natural law. I don't know, but you'll forgive me if I go for a moment on my own experience--and
that experience is, that you can start on as highbrow an elevation as you like, but love doesn't
stand still, and the body's the body, and to-morrow isn't yesterday--not by no means. Moreover,
Markovitch is a Russian and a peculiar one at that. Finally, remember that I want Vera Michailovna
to be happy quite as much as you do!"

He was suddenly grave and almost boyish in his next words.

"I know that--you're a decent chap, Durward--I know it's hard to believe me, but I just ask
you to wait and test me. No one knows of this--that I'd swear--and no one shall; but what's
the matter with her, Durward, what's she afraid of? That's why I spoke to you. You know her,
and I'll throttle you here where we stand if you don't tell me just what the trouble is. I
don't care for confidences or anything of the sort. You must break them all and tell me--"

His hand was on my arm again, his big ugly face, now grim and obstinate, close against mine.

"I'll tell you," I said slowly, "all I know, which is almost nothing. The trouble is Semyonov,
the doctor. Why or how I can't say, although I've seen enough of him in the past to know the
trouble he can be. She's afraid of him, and Markovitch is afraid of him. He likes playing on
people's nerves. He's a bitter, disappointed man, who loved desperately once, as only real
sensualists can... and now he's in love with a ghost. That's why real life maddens him."

"Semyonov!" Lawrence whispered the name.

We had come to the end of the quay. My dear church with its round grey wall stood glistening
in the moonlight, the shadows from the snow rippling up its sides, as though it lay under water.
We stood and looked across the river.

"I've always hated that fellow," Lawrence said. "I've only seen him about twice, but I believe
I hated him before I saw him.... All right, Durward, that's what I wanted to know. Thank you.
Good-night."

And before I could speak he had gripped my hand, had turned back, and was walking swiftly away,
across the golden-lighted quay.

XIX

From the moment that Lawrence left me, vanishing into the heart of the snow and ice, I was
obsessed by a conviction of approaching danger and peril. It has been one of the most disastrous
weaknesses of my life that I have always shrunk from precipitate action. Before the war it
had seemed to many of us that life could be jockeyed into decisions by words and theories and
speculations. The swift, and, as it were, revengeful precipitancy of the last three years had
driven me into a self-distrust and cowardice which had grown and grown until life had seemed
veiled and distant and mysteriously obscure. From my own obscurity, against my will, against
my courage, against my own knowledge of myself, circumstances were demanding that I should
advance and act. It was of no avail to myself that I should act unwisely, that I should perhaps
only precipitate a crisis that I could not help. I was forced to act when I would have given
my soul to hold aloof, and in this town, whose darkness and light, intrigue and display, words
and action, seemed to derive some mysterious force from the very soil, from the very air, the
smallest action achieved monstrous proportions. When you have lived for some years in Russia
you do not wonder that its citizens prefer inaction to demonstration--the soil is so much stronger
than the men who live upon it.

Nevertheless, for a fortnight I did nothing. Private affairs of an especially tiresome kind
filled my days--I saw neither Lawrence nor Vera, and, during that period, I scarcely left my rooms.

There was much expectation in the town that February 14th, when the Duma was appointed to meet,
would be a critical day. Fine things were said of the challenging speeches that would be made,
of the firm stand that the Cadet party intended to take, of the crisis with which the Court
party would be faced.

Of course nothing occurred. It may be safely said that, in Russian affairs, no crisis occurs,
either in the place or at the time, or in the manner in which it is expected. Time with us
here refuses to be caught by the throat. That is the revenge that it takes on the scorn with
which, in Russia, it is always covered.

On the 20th of February I received an invitation to Nina's birthday party. She would be eighteen
on the 28th. She scribbed at the bottom of Vera's note:

Dear Durdles--If you don't come I will never forgive you.--Your loving Nina.

The immediate problem was a present. I knew that Nina adored presents, but Petrograd was now
no easy place for purchases, and I wished, I suppose as a kind of tribute to her youth and
freshness and colour, to give her something for which she would really care. I sallied out
on a wonderful afternoon when the town was a blaze of colour, the walls dark red, dark brown,
violet, pink, and the snow a dazzling glitter of crystal. The bells were ringing for some festival,
echoing as do no other bells in the world from wall to wall, roof to roof, canal to canal.
Everybody moved as though they were inspired with a gay sense of adventure, men and women laughing;
the Isvostchicks surveying possible fares with an eye less patronising and lugubrious than
usual, the flower women and the beggars and the little Chinese boys and the wicked old men
who stare at you as though they were dreaming of Eastern debauches, shared in the sun and tang
of the air and high colour of the sky and snow.

I pushed my way into the shop in the Morskaia that had the coloured stones--the blue and azure
and purple stones--in the window. Inside the shop, which had a fine gleaming floor, and an
old man with a tired eye, there were stones of every colour, but there was nothing there for
Nina--all was too elaborate and grand.

Near the Nevski is a fine shop of pictures with snow scenes and blue rivers and Italian landscapes,
and copies of Repin and Verestchagin, and portraits of the Czar. I searched here, but all were
too sophisticated in their bright brown frames, and their air of being the latest thing from
Paris and London. Then I crossed the road, threading my way through the carriages and motor
cars, past the old white-bearded sweeper with the broom held aloft, gazing at the sky, and
plunged into the English Shop to see whether I might buy something warm for Nina. Here, indeed,
I could fancy that I was in the High Street in Chester, or Leicester, or Truro, or Canterbury.
A demure English provincialism was over everything, and a young man in a high white collar
and a shiny black coat, washed his hands as he told me that "they hadn't any in stock at the
moment, but they were expecting a delivery of goods at any minute." Russian shopmen, it is
almost needless to say, do not care whether they have goods in stock or no. They have other
things to think about. The air was filled with the chatter of English governesses, and an English
clergyman and his wife were earnestly turning over a selection of woollen comforters.

Nothing here for Nina--nothing at all. I hurried away. With a sudden flash of inspiration I
realised that it was in the Jews' Market that I would find what I wanted. I snatched at the
bulging neck of a sleeping coachman, and before he was fully awake was in his sledge, and had
told him my destination. He grumbled and wished to know how much I intended to pay him, and
when I said one and a half roubles, answered that he would not take me for less than three.
I threatened him then with the fat and good-natured policeman who always guarded the confused
junction of the Morskaia and Nevski, and he was frightened and moved on. I sighed as I remembered
the days not so long before, when that same coachman would have thought it an honour to drive
me for half a rouble. Down the Sadovya we slipped, bumping over the uneven surface of the snow,
and the shops grew smaller and the cinemas more stringent, and the women and men with their
barrows of fruit and coloured notepaper and toys more frequent. Then through the market with
the booths and the church with its golden towers, until we stood before the hooded entrance
to the Jews' Paradise. I paid him, and without listening to his discontented cries pushed my
way in. The Jews' Market is a series of covered arcades with a square in the middle of it,
and in the middle of the square a little church with some doll-like trees. These arcades are
Western in their hideous covering of glass and the ugliness of the exterior of the wooden shops
that line them, but the crowd that throngs them is Eastern, so that in the strange eyes and
voices, the wild gestures, the laughs, the cries, the singing, and the dancing that meets one
here it is as though a new world was suddenly born--a world offensive, dirty, voluble, blackguardly
perhaps, but intriguing, tempting, and ironical. The arcades are generally so crowded that
one can move only at a slow pace and, on every side one is pestered by the equivalents of the
old English cry: "What do you lack? What do you lack?"

Every mixture of blood and race that the world contains is to be seen here, but they are all--Tartars,
Jews, Chinese, Japanese, Indians, Arabs, Moslem, and Christian--formed by some subtle colour
of atmosphere, so that they seem all alike to be citizens of some secret little town, sprung
to life just for a day, in the heart of this other city. Perhaps it is the dull pale mist that
the glass flings down, perhaps it is the uncleanly dust-clogged air; whatever it be, there
is a stain of grey shadowy smoke upon all this world, and Ikons and shabby jewels, and piles
of Eastern clothes, and old brass pots, and silver, hilted swords, and golden-tasselled Tartar
coats gleam through the shadow and wink and stare.

To-day the arcades were so crowded that I could scarcely move, and the noise was deafening.

Many soldiers were there, looking with indulgent amusement upon the scene, and the Jews with
their skull-caps and the fat, huge-breasted Jewish women screamed and shrieked and waved their
arms like boughs in a storm. I stopped at many shops and fingered the cheap silver toys, the
little blue and green Ikons, the buckles and beads and rosaries that thronged the trays, but
I could not find anything for Nina. Then suddenly I saw a square box of mother-of-pearl and
silver, so charming and simple, the figures on the silver lid so gracefully carved that I decided
at once.

The Jew in charge of it wanted twice as much as I was ready to give, and we argued for ten
minutes before a kindly and appreciative crowd. At last we arranged a compromise, and I moved
away, pleased and satisfied. I stepped out of the arcade and faced the little Square. It was,
at that instant, fantastic and oddly coloured; the sun, about to set, hung in the misty sky
a perfect round crimson globe, and it was perched, almost maliciously, just above the tower
of the little church.

The rest of the world was grey. The Square was a thick mass of human beings so tightly wedged
together that it seemed to move backwards and forwards like a floor of black wood pushed by
a lever. One lamp burnt behind the window of the church, the old houses leaned forward as though
listening to the babel below their eaves.

But it was the sun that seemed to me then so evil and secret and cunning. Its deep red was
aloof and menacing, and its outline so sharp that it was detached from the sky as though it
were human, and would presently move and advance towards us. I don't know what there was in
that crowd of struggling human beings and that detached red sun.... The air was cruel, and
through all the arcades that seemed to run like veins to this heart of the place I could feel
the cold and the dark and the smoky dusk creeping forward to veil us all with deepest night.

I turned away and then saw, advancing towards me, as though he had just come from the church,
pushing his way, and waving a friendly hand to me, Semyonov.

XX

His greeting was most amiable. He was wearing a rather short fur coat that only reached to
a little below his knees, and the fur of the coat was of a deep rich brown, so that his pale
square yellow beard contrasted with this so abruptly as to seem false. His body was as ever
thick and self-confident, and the round fur cap that he wore was cocked ever so slightly to
one side. I did not want to see him, but I was caught. I fancied that he knew very well that
I wanted to escape, and that now, for sheer perversity, he would see that I did not. Indeed,
he caught my arm and drew me out of the Market. We passed into the dusky streets.

"Now, Ivan Andreievitch," he said, "this is very pleasant... very.... You elude me, you know,
which is unkind with two so old acquaintances. Of course I know that you dislike me, and I
don't suppose that I have the highest opinion of you, but, nevertheless, we should be interested
in one another. Our common experience...." He broke off with a little shiver, and pulled his
fur coat closer around him.

I knew that all that I wanted was to break away. We had passed quickly on leaving the Market
into some of the meanest streets of Petrograd. This was the Petrograd of Dostoeffsky, the Petrograd
of "Poor Folk" and "Crime and Punishment" and "The Despised and Rejected."... Monstrous groups
of flats towered above us, and in the gathering dusk the figures that slipped in and out of
the doors were furtive shadows and ghosts. No one seemed to speak; you could see no faces under
the spare pale-flamed lamps, only hear whispers and smell rotten stinks and feel the snow,
foul and soiled under one's feet....

"Look here, Semyonov," I said, slipping from the control of his hand, "it's just as you say.
We don't like one another, and we know one another well enough to say so. Neither you nor I
wish to revive the past, and there's nothing in the present that we have in common."

"Nothing!" He laughed. "What about my delightful nieces and their home circle? You were always
one to shrink from the truth, Ivan Andreievitch. You fancy that you can sink into the bosom
of a charming family and escape the disadvantages.... Not at all. There are always disadvantages
in a Russian family. I am the disadvantage in this one." He laughed again, and insisted on
taking my arm once more. "If you feel so strongly about me, Durward" (when he used my surname
he always accented the second syllable very strongly) "all you have to do is to cut my niece
Vera out of your visiting list. That, I imagine, is the last thing that you wish. Well, then--"

"Vera Michailovna is my friend," I said hotly--it was foolish of me to be so easily provoked,
but I could not endure his sneering tone. "If you imply--"

"Nonsense," he answered sharply, "I imply nothing. Do you suppose that I have been more than
a month here without discovering the facts? It's your English friend Lawrence who is in love
with Vera--and Vera with him."

"That is a lie!" I cried.

He laughed. "You English," he said, "are not so unobservant as you seem, but you hate facts.
Vera and your friend Lawrence have been in love with one another since their first meeting,
and my dear nephew-in-law Markovitch knows it."

"That's impossible," I cried. "He--"

"No," Semyonov replied, "I was wrong. He does not know it--he suspects. And my nephew-in-law
in a state of suspicion is a delightful study."

By now we were in a narrow street, so dark that we stumbled at every step. We seemed to be
quite alone.

It was I who now caught his arm. "Semyonov!" I said, and my urgency stopped him so that he
stood where he was. "Leave them alone! Leave them alone! They've done no harm to you, they
can offer you nothing, they are not intelligent enough for you nor amusing enough. Even if
it is true what you say it will pass--Lawrence will go away. I will see that he does. Only
leave them alone! For God's sake, let them be!"

His face was very close to mine, and, looking at it in the gathering dark, it was as though
it were a face of glass behind which other faces passed and repassed. I cannot hope to give
any idea of the strange mingling of regret, malice, pride, pain, scorn, and humour that those
eyes showed. His red lips parted as though he would speak, for a moment he turned away from
me and looked down the black tunnel of the street, then he walked forward again.

"You are wrong, my friend," he said, "if you imagine that there is no amusement for me in the
study of my family. It is my family, you know. I have none other. Perhaps it has never occurred
to you, Durward, that possibly I am a lonely man."

As he spoke I heard again the echo of that voice as it vanished into the darkness.... "No one?"
and the answer: "No one."...

"Don't imagine," he continued, "that I am asking for your pity. That indeed would be humorous.
I pity no one, and I despise the men who have it to bestow... but there are situations in life
that are intolerable, Ivan Andreievitch, and any man who is a man will see that he escapes
from such a thing. May I not find in the bosom of my family such an escape?" He laughed.

"I know nothing about that," I began hotly. "All I know is--"

But he went on as though he had not heard me.

"Have you ever thought about death since you came away from the Front, Durward? It used to
occupy your mind a good deal while you were there, I remember--in a foolish, romantic, sentimental
way of course. You'll forgive my saying that your views of death were those of a second-hand
novelist--all the same I'll do you the justice of acknowledging that you had studied it at
first hand. You're not a coward, you know."

I was struck most vividly with a sense of his uneasiness. During those other days uneasy was
the very last thing that I ever would have said that he was--even after his catastrophe his
grip of his soul did not loosen. It was just that loosening that I felt now; he had less control
of the beasts that dwelt beneath the ground of his house, and he could hear them snarl and
whine, and could feel the floor quiver with the echo of their movements.

I suddenly knew that I was afraid of him no longer.

"Now, see, Alexei Petrovitch," I said, "it isn't death that we want to talk about now. It is
a much simpler thing. It is, that you shouldn't for your own amusement simply go in and spoil
the lives of some of my friends for nothing at all except your own stupid pride. If that's
your plan I'm going to prevent it."

"Why, Ivan Andreievitch," he cried, laughing, "this is a challenge."

"You can take it as what you please," I answered gravely.

"But, incorrigible sentimentalist," he went on, "tell me--are you, English and moralist and
believer in a good and righteous God as you are, are you really going to encourage this abominable
adultery, this open, ruthless wrecking of a good man's home? You surprise me; this is a new
light on your otherwise rather uninteresting character."

"Never mind my character," I answered him; "all you've got to do is to leave Vera Michailovna
alone. There'll be no wrecking of homes, unless you are the wrecker."

He put his hand on my arm again.

"Listen, Durward," he said, "I'll tell you a little story. I'm a doctor you know, and many
curious things occur within my province. Well, some years ago I knew a man who was very miserable
and very proud. His pride resented that he should be miserable, and he was always suspecting
that people saw his weakness, and as he despised human nature, and thought his companions fools
and deserving of all that they got, and more, he couldn't bear the thought that they should
perceive that he allowed himself to be unhappy. He coveted death. If it meant extinction he
could imagine nothing pleasanter than so restful an aloofness, quiet and apart and alone, whilst
others hurried and scrambled and pursued the future....

"And if death did not mean extinction then he thought that he might snatch and secure for himself
something which in life had eluded him. So he coveted death. But he was too proud to reach
it by suicide. That seemed to him a contemptible and cowardly evasion, and such an easy solution
would have denied the purpose of all his life. So he looked about him and discovered amongst
his friends a man whose character he knew well, a man idealistic and foolish and romantic,
like yourself, Ivan Andreievitch, only caring more for ideas, more impulsive and more reckless.
He found this man and made him his friend. He played with him as a cat does with a mouse. He
enjoyed life for about a year and then he was murdered...."

"Murdered!" I exclaimed.

"Yes--shot by his idealistic friend. I envy him that year. He must have experienced many breathless
sensations. When the murderer was tried his only explanation was that he had been irritated
and disappointed.

"'Disappointed of what?' asked the judge.

"'Of everything in which he believed....' said the man.

"It seemed a poor excuse for a murder; he is still, I have no doubt, in Siberia.

"But I envy my friend. That was a delightful death to die.... Good-night, Ivan Andreievitch."

He waved his hand at me and was gone. I was quite alone in the long black street, engulfed
by the high, overhanging flats.

XXI

Late on the afternoon of Nina's birthday, when I was on the point of setting out for the English
Prospect, the Rat appeared. I had not seen him for several weeks; but there he was, stepping
suddenly out of the shadows of my room, dirty and disreputable and cheerful. He had been, I
perceived, drinking furniture polish.

"Good-evening, Barin."

"Good-evening," I said sternly. "I told you not to come here when you were drunk."

"I'm not drunk," he said, offended, "only a little. It's not much that you can get these days.
I want some money, Barin."

"I've none for you," I answered.

"It's only a little--God knows that I wouldn't ask you for much, but I'm going to be very busy
these next days, and it's work that won't bring pay quickly. There'll be pay later, and then
I will return it to you."

"There's nothing for you to-night," I said.

He laughed. "You're a fine man, Barin. A foreigner is fine--that's where the poor Russian is
unhappy. I love you, Barin, and I will look after you, and if, as you say, there isn't any
money here, one must pray to God and he will show one the way."

"What's this work you're going to do?" I asked him.

"There's going to be trouble the other side of the river in a day or two," he answered, "and
I'm going to help."

"Help what?" I asked.

"Help the trouble," he answered, smiling.

"Behave like a blackguard, in fact."

"Ah, blackguard, Barin!" he protested, using a Russian word that is worse than blackguard.
"Why these names?... I'm not a good man, God have mercy on my soul, but then I pretend nothing.
I am what you see.... If there's going to be trouble in the town I may as well be there. Why
not I as well as another? And it is to your advantage, Barin, that I should be."

"Why to my advantage?" I asked him.

"Because I am your friend, and we'll protect you," he answered.

"I wouldn't trust you a yard," I told him.

"Well, perhaps you're right," he said. "We are as God made us--I am no better than the rest."

"No, indeed you're not," I answered him. "Why do you think there'll be trouble?"

"I know.... Perhaps a lot of trouble, perhaps only a little. But it will be a fine time for
those of us who have nothing to lose.... So you have no money for me?"

"Nothing."

"A mere rouble or so?"

"Nothing."

"Well, I must be off.... I am your friend. Don't forget," and he was gone.

It had been arranged that Nina and Vera, Lawrence and Bohun and I should meet outside the Giniselli
at five minutes to eight. I left my little silver box at the flat, paid some other calls, and
just as eight o'clock was striking arrived outside the Giniselli. This is Petrograd's apology
for a music-hall--in other words, it is nothing but the good old-fashioned circus.

Then, again, it is not quite the circus of one's English youth, because it has a very distinct
Russian atmosphere of its own. The point really is the enthusiasm of the audience, because
it is an enthusiasm that in these sophisticated, twentieth-century days is simply not to be
found in any other country in Europe. I am an old-fashioned man and, quite frankly, I adore
a circus; and when I can find one with the right sawdust smell, the right clown, and the right
enthusiasm, I am happy. The smart night is a Saturday, and then, if you go, you will see, in
the little horse-boxes close to the arena, beautiful women in jewellery and powder, and young
officers, and fat merchants in priceless Shubas. But to-night was not a Saturday, and therefore
the audience was very democratic, screaming cat-calls from the misty distances of the gallery,
and showering sunflower seeds upon the heads of the bourgeoisie, who were, for the most part,
of the smaller shopkeeper kind.

Nina, to-night, was looking very pretty and excited. She was wearing a white silk dress with
blue bows, and all her hair was piled on the top of her head in imitation of Vera--but this
only had the effect of making her seem incredibly young and naïve, as though she had put her
hair up just for the evening because there was to be a party. It was explained that Markovitch
was working but would be present at supper. Vera was quiet, but looked happier, I thought,
than I had seen her for a long time. Bohun was looking after her, and Lawrence was with Nina.
I sat behind the four of them, in the back of the little box, like a presiding Benevolence.

Mostly I thought of how lovely Vera was to-night, and why it was, too, that more people did
not care for her. I knew that she was not popular, that she was considered proud and reserved
and cold. As she sat there now, motionless, her hands on her lap, her whole being seemed to
me to radiate goodness and gentleness and a loving heart. I knew that she could be impatient
with stupid people, and irritated by sentimentality, and infuriated by meanness and cruelty,
but the whole size and grandeur of her nobility seemed to me to shine all about her and set
her apart from the rest of human beings. She was not a woman whom I ever could have loved--she
had not the weaknesses and naïveties and appealing helplessness that drew love from one's heart.
Nor could I have ever dared to face the depth and splendour of the passion that there was in
her--I was not built on that heroic scale. God forgive me if, as I watched them, I felt a sudden
glow of almost eager triumph at the thought of Lawrence as her lover! I checked it. My heart
was suddenly heavy.

Such a development could only mean tragedy, and I knew it. I had even sworn to Semyonov that
I would prevent it. I looked at them and felt my helpless weakness. Who was I to prevent anything?
And who was there now, in the whole world, who would be guided by my opinion? They might have
me as a confidant because they trusted me, but after that... no, I had no illusions. I was
pushed off the edge of the world, hanging on still with one quivering hand--soon my grip would
loosen--and, God help me, I did not want to go.

Nina turned back to me and, with a little excited clap of her hands, drew my attention to the
gallant Madame Gineselli, who, although by no means a chicken, arrayed in silver tights and
a large black picture-hat, stood on one foot on the back of her white horse and bowed to the
already hysterical gallery. Mr. Gineselli cracked his whip, and the white horse ambled along
and the sawdust flew up into our eyes, and Madame bent her knees first in and then out, and
the bourgeoisie clapped their hands and the gallery shouted "Brava." Gineselli cracked his
whip and there was the clown "Jackomeno, beloved of his Russian public," as it was put on the
programme; and indeed so he seemed to be, for he was greeted with roars of applause. There
was nothing very especially Russian about him, however, and when he had taken his coat off
and brushed a place on which to put it and then flung it on the ground and stamped on it, I
felt quite at home with him and ready for anything.

He called up one of the attendants and asked him whether he had ever played the guitar. I don't
know what it was that the attendant answered, because something else suddenly transfixed my
attention--the vision of Nina's little white-gloved hand resting on Lawrence's broad knee.
I saw at once, as though she had told me, that she had committed herself to a most desperate
venture. I could fancy the resolution that she had summoned to take the step, the way that
now her heart would be furiously beating, and the excited chatter with which she would try
to cover up her action. Vera and Bohun could not, from where they were sitting, see what she
had done; Lawrence did not move, his back was set like a rock; he stared steadfastly at the
arena. Nina never ceased talking, her ribbons fluttering and her other hand gesticulating.

I could not take my eyes from that little white hand. I should have been, I suppose, ashamed
of her, indignant for her, but I could only feel that she was, poor child, in for the most
desperate rebuff. I could see from where I sat her cheek, hot and crimson, and her shrill voice
never stopped.

The interval arrived, to my intense relief, and we all went out into the dark passage that
smelt of sawdust and horses. Almost at once Nina detached me from the others and walked off
with me towards the lighted hall.

"You saw," she said.

"Saw what?" I asked.

"Saw what I was doing."

I felt that she was quivering all over, and she looked so ridiculously young, with her trembling
lip and blue hat on one side and burning cheeks, that I felt that I wanted to take her into
my arms and kiss and pet her.

"I saw that you had your hand on his knee," I said. "That was silly of you, Nina."

"Why shouldn't I?" she answered furiously. "Why shouldn't I enjoy life like every one else?
Why should Vera, have everything?"

"Vera!" I cried. "What has it to do with Vera?"

She didn't answer my question. She put her hand on my arm, pressing close up to me as though
she wanted my protection.

"Durdles, I want him for my friend. I do--I do. When I look at him and think of Boris and the
others I don't want to speak to any one of them again. I only want him for my friend. I'm getting
old now, and they can't treat me as a child any longer. I'll show them. I know what I'll do
if I can't have the friends I want and if Vera is always managing me--I'll go off to Boris."

"My dear Nina," I said, "you mustn't do that. You don't care for him."

"No, I know I don't--but I will go if everybody thinks me a baby. And Durdles--Durdles, please--make
him like me--your Mr. Lawrence."

She said his name with the funniest little accent.

"Nina, dear," I said, "will you take a little piece of advice from me?"

"What is it?" she asked doubtfully.

"Well, this.... Don't you make any move yourself. Just wait and you'll see he'll like you.
You'll make him shy if you--"

But she interrupted me furiously in one of her famous tempers.

"Oh, you Englishmen with your shyness and your waiting and your coldness! I hate you all, and
I wish we were fighting with the Germans against you. Yes, I do--and I hope the Germans win.
You never have any blood. You're all cold as ice.... And what do you mean spying on me? Yes,
you were--sitting behind and spying! You're always finding out what we're doing, and putting
it all down in a book. I hate you, and I won't ever ask your advice again."

She rushed off, and I was following her when the bell rang for the beginning of the second
part. We all went in, Nina chattering and laughing with Bohun just as though she had never
been in a temper in her life.

Then a dreadful thing happened. We arrived at the box, and Vera, Bohun, and Nina sat in the
seats they had occupied before. I waited for Lawrence to sit down, but he turned round to me.

"I say, Durward--you sit next to Nina Michailovna this time. She'll be bored having me all
the while."

"No, no!" I began to protest, but Nina, her voice shaking, cried:

"Yes, Durdles, you sit down next to me--please."

I don't think that Lawrence perceived anything. He said very cheerfully, "That's right--and
I'll sit behind and see that you all behave."

I sat down and the second part began. The second part was wrestling. The bell rang, the curtains
parted, and instead of the splendid horses and dogs there appeared a procession of some of
the most obese and monstrous types of humanity. Almost naked, they wandered round the arena,
mountains of flesh glistening in the electric light. A little man, all puffed up like a poulter
pigeon, then advanced into the middle of the arena, and was greeted with wild applause from
the gallery. To this he bowed and then announced in a terrific voice, "Gentlemen, you are about
to see some of the most magnificent wrestling in the world. Allow me to introduce to you the
combatants." He then shouted out the names: "Ivan Strogoff of Kiev--Paul Rosing of Odessa--Jacob
Smyerioff of Petrograd--John Meriss from Africa (this the most hideous of negroes)--Karl Tubiloff
of Helsingfors...." and so on. The gentlemen named smirked and bowed. They all marched off,
and then, in a moment, one couple returned, shook hands, and, under the breathless attention
of the whole house, began to wrestle.

They did not, however, command my attention. I could think of nothing but the little crushed
figure next to me. I stole a look at her and saw that a large tear was hanging on one eyelash
ready to fall. I looked hurriedly away. Poor child! And her birthday! I cursed Lawrence for
his clumsiness. What did it matter if she had put her hand on his knee? He ought to have taken
it and patted it. But it was more than likely, as I knew very well, that he had never even
noticed her action. He was marvellously unaware of all kinds of things, and it was only too
possible that Nina scarcely existed for him. I longed to comfort her, and I did then a foolish
thing. I put out my hand and let it rest for a moment on her dress.

Instantly she moved away with a sharp little gesture.

Five minutes later I heard a little whisper: "Durdles, it's so hot here--and I hate these naked
men. Shall we go? Ask Vera--"

The first bout had just come to an end. The little man with the swelling chest was alone, strutting
up and down, and answering questions hurled at him from the gallery.

"Uncle Vanya, where's Michael of Odessa?"

"Ah, he's a soldier in the army now."

"Uncle Vanya... Uncle Vanya... Uncle Vanya..."

"Well, well, what is it?"

"Why isn't Chornaya Maska, wrestling to-night?"

"Ah, he's busy."

"What's he busy with?"

"Never mind, he's busy."

"What's he busy with?... Uncle Vanya... Uncle Vanya..."

"Shto?"

"Isn't it true that Michael's dead now?"

"So they say."

"Is it true?"

"Uncle Vanya... Uncle Vanya...."

The message had passed along that Nina was tired and wanted to go. We all moved out through
the passage and into the cold fresh air.

"It was quite time," said Vera. "I was going to suggest it myself."

"I hope you liked it," said Lawrence politely to Nina.

"No, I hated it," she answered furiously, and turned her back on him.

It could not be said that the birthday party was promising very well.

XXII

And yet for the first half-hour it really seemed that it would "go" very well indeed. It had
been agreed that it was to be absolutely a "family" party, and Uncle Ivan, Semyonov, and Boris
Grogoff were the only additions to our number. Markovitch was there of course, and I saw at
once that he was eager to be agreeable and to be the best possible host. As I had often noticed
before, there was something pathetic about Markovitch when he wished to be agreeable. He had
neither the figure nor the presence with which to be fascinating, and he did not know in the
least how to bring out his best points.

Especially when he tried, as he was sometimes ill-advised enough to do, to flirt with young
girls, he was a dismal failure. He was intended, by nature, to be mysterious and malevolent,
and had he only had a malevolent spirit there would have been no tragedy--but in the confused
welter that he called his soul, malevolence was the least of the elements, and other things--love,
sympathy, twisted self-pity, ambition, courage, and cowardice--drowned it. He was on his best
behaviour to-night, and over the points of his high white collar his peaked, ugly, anxious
face peered, appealing to the Fates for generosity.

But the Fates despise those who appeal.

I very soon saw that he was on excellent terms with Semyonov, and this could only be, I was
sure, because Semyonov had been flattering him. Very soon I learnt the truth. I was standing
near the table, watching the company, when I found Markovitch at my side.

"Very glad you've come, Ivan Andreievitch," he said. "I've been meaning to come and see you,
only I've been too busy."

"How's the ink getting along?" I asked him.

"Oh, the ink!" He brushed my words scornfully aside. "No, that's nothing. We must postpone
that to a more propitious time. Meanwhile--meanwhile, Ivan Andreievitch, I've hit it at last!"

"What is it this time?" I asked.

He could hardly speak for his excitement. "It's wood--the bark--the bark of the tree, you know--a
new kind of fibre for cloth. If I hadn't got to look after these people here, I'd take you
and show you now. You're a clever fellow--you'd understand at once. I've been showing it to
Alexei" (he nodded in the direction of Semyonov), "and he entirely agrees with me that there's
every kind of possibility in it. The thing will be to get the labour--that's the trouble nowadays--but
I'll find somebody--one of these timber men...."

So that was it, was it? I looked across at Semyonov, who was now seated on Vera's right hand
just opposite Boris Grogoff. He was very quiet, very still, looking about him, his square pale
beard a kind of symbol of the secret immobility of his soul. I fancied that I detected behind
his placidity an almost relieved self-satisfaction, as though things were going very much better
than he had expected.

"So Alexei Petrovitch thinks well of it, does he?" I asked.

"Most enthusiastic," answered Markovitch eagerly. "He's gone into the thing thoroughly with
me, and has made some admirable suggestions.... Ivan Andreievitch, I think I should tell you--I
misjudged him. I wasn't fair on what I said to you the other day about him. Or perhaps it is
that being at the Front has changed him, softened him a bit. His love affair there, you know,
made him more sympathetic and kindly. I believe he means well to us all. Vera won't agree with
me. She's more cynical than she used to be. I don't like that in her. She never had a suspicious
nature before, but now she doesn't trust one."

"You don't tell her enough," I interrupted.

"Tell her?" he looked at me doubtfully. "What is there I should tell her?"

"Everything!" I answered.

"Everything?" His eyes suddenly narrowed, his face was sharp and suspicious. "Does she tell
me everything? Answer me that, Ivan Andreievitch. There was a time once--but now--I give my
confidences where I'm trusted. If she treated me fairly--"

There was no chance to say more; they called us to the table. I took my place between Nina
and Ivan.

As I have said, the supper began very merrily. Boris Grogoff was, I think, a little drunk when
he arrived; at any rate he was noisy from the very beginning. I have wondered often since whether
he had any private knowledge that night which elated and excited him, and was responsible in
part, perhaps, for what presently occurred. It may well have been so, although at the time,
of course, nothing of the kind occurred to me. Nina appeared to have recovered her spirits.
She was sitting next to Lawrence, and chattered and laughed with him in her ordinary fashion.

And now, stupidly enough, when I try to recall exactly the steps that led up to the catastrophe,
I find it difficult to see things clearly. I remember that very quickly I was conscious that
there was danger in the air. I was conscious of it first in the eyes of Semyonov, those steady,
watching, relentless eyes so aloof as to be inhuman. He was on the other side of the table,
and suddenly I said to myself, "He's expecting something to happen." Then, directly after that
I caught Vera's eye, and I saw that she too was anxious. She looked pale and tired and sad.

I caught myself in the next instant saying to myself, "Well, she's got Lawrence to look after
her now"--so readily does the spirit that is beyond one's grasp act above and outside one's
poor human will.

I saw then that the trouble was once again, as it had often been before, Grogoff. He was drinking
heavily the rather poor claret which Markovitch had managed to secure from somewhere. He addressed
the world in general.

"I tell you that we're going to stop this filthy war," he cried. "And if our government won't
do it, we'll take things into our own hands...."

"Well," said Semyonov, smiling, "that's a thing that no Russian has ever said before, for certain."

Every one laughed, and Grogoff flushed. "Oh, it's easy to sneer!" he said. "Just because there've
been miserable cowards in Russian history, you think it will always be so. I tell you it is
not so. The time is coming when tyranny will topple from its throne, and we'll show Europe
the way to liberty."

"By which you mean," said Semyonov, "that you'll involve Russia in at least three more wars
in addition to the one she's at present so magnificently losing."

"I tell you," screamed Grogoff, now so excited that he was standing on his feet and waving
his glass in the air, "that this time you have not cowards to deal with. This will not be as
it was in 1905; I know of what I'm speaking."

Semyonov leant over the table and whispered something in Markovitch's ear. I had seen that
Markovitch had already been longing to speak. He jumped up on to his feet, fiercely excited,
his eyes flaming.

"It's nonsense that you are talking, sheer nonsense!" he cried. "Russia's lost the war, and
all we who believed in her have our hearts broken. Russia won't be mended by a few vapouring
idiots who talk and talk without taking action."

"What do you call me?" screamed Grogoff.

"I mention no names," said Markovitch, his little eyes dancing with anger. "Take it or no as
you please. But I say that we have had enough of all this vapouring talk, all this pretence
of courage. Let us admit that freedom has failed in Russia, that she must now submit herself
to the yoke."

"Coward! Coward!" screamed Grogoff.

"It's you who are the coward!" cried Markovitch.

"Call me that and I'll show you!"

"I do call you it!"

There was an instant's pause, during which we all of us had, I suppose, some idea of trying
to intervene.

But it was too late. Grogoff raised his hand and, with all his force, flung his glass at Markovitch.
Markovitch ducked his head, and the glass smashed with a shattering tinkle on the wall behind him.

We all cried out, but the only thing of which I was conscious was that Lawrence had sprung
from his seat, had crossed to where Vera was standing, and had put his hand on her arm. She
glanced up at him. That look which they exchanged, a look of revelation, of happiness, of sudden
marvellous security, was so significant that I could have cried out to them both, "Look out!
Look out!"

But if I had cried they would not have heard me.

My next instinct was to turn to Markovitch. He was frowning, coughing a little, and feeling
the top of his collar. His face was turned towards Grogoff and he was speaking--could catch
some words: "No right... in my own house... Boris... I apologise... please don't think of it."
But his eyes were not looking at Boris at all; they were turned towards Vera, staring at her,
begging her, beseeching her.... What had he seen? How much had he understood? And Nina? And
Semyonov?

But at once, in a way most truly Russian, the atmosphere had changed. It was Nina who controlled
the situation. "Boris," she cried, "come here!"

We all waited in silence. He looked at her, a little sulkily, his head hanging, but his eyes
glancing up at her.

He seemed nothing then but a boy caught in some misdemeanour, obstinate, sulky, but ready to
make peace if a chance were offered him.

"Boris, come here!"

He moved across to her, looking her full in the face, his mouth sulky, but his eyes rebelliously
smiling.

"Well... well...."

She stood away from the table, drawn to her full height, her eyes commanding him: "How dare
you! Boris, how dare you! My birthday--mine--and you've spoilt it, spoilt it all. Come here--up
close!"

He came to her until his hands were almost on her body; he hung his head, standing over her.

She stood back as though she were going to strike him, then suddenly with a laugh she sprang
upon the chair beside her, flung her arms round his neck and kissed him; then, still standing
on the chair, turned and faced us all.

"Now, that's enough--all of you. Michael, Uncle Ivan, Uncle Alexei, Durdles--how dare you,
all of you? You're all as bad--every one of you. I'll punish all of you if we have any more
politics. Beastly politics! What do they matter? It's my birthday. My birthday, I tell you.
It shan't be spoilt."

She seemed to me so excited as not to know what she was saying. What had she seen? What did
she know?... Meanwhile Grogoff was elated, wildly pleased like a boy who, contrary to all his
expectations, had won a prize.

He went up to Markovitch with his hand out:

"Nicholas--forgive me--Prasteete--I forgot myself. I'm ashamed--my abominable temper. We are
friends. You were right, too. We talk here in Russia too much, far too much, and when the moment
comes for action we shrink back. We see too far perhaps. Who knows? But you were right and
I am a fool. You've taught me a lesson by your nobility. Thank you, Nicholas. And all of you--I
apologise to all of you."

We moved away from the table. Vera came over to us, and then sat on the sofa with her arm around
Nina's neck. Nina was very quiet now, sitting there, her cheeks flushed, smiling, but as though
she were thinking of something quite different.

Some one proposed that we should play "Petits Cheveaux." We gathered around the table, and
soon every one was laughing and gambling.

Only once I looked up and saw that Markovitch was gazing at Vera; and once again I looked at
Vera and saw that she was staring before her, seeing nothing, lost in some vision--but it was
not of Markovitch that she was thinking....

I was the first to leave--I said good-night to every one. I could hear their laughter as I
waited at the bottom of the stairs for the Dvornik to let me out.

But when I was in the street the world was breathlessly still. I walked up the Prospect--no
soul was in sight, only the scattered lamps, the pale snow, and the houses. At the end of the
Canal I stopped. The silence was intense.

It seemed to me then that in the very centre of the Canal the ice suddenly cracked, slowly
pulled apart, leaving a still pool of black water. The water slowly stirred, rippled, then
a long, horned, and scaly head pushed up. I could see the shining scales on its thick side
and the ribbed horn on the back of the neck. Beneath it the water stirred and heaved. With
dead glazed eyes it stared upon the world, then slowly, as though it were drawn from below,
it sank. The water rippled in narrowing circles--then all was still....

The moon came out from behind filmy shadow. The world was intensely light, and I saw that the
ice of the canal had never been broken, and that no pool of black water caught the moon's rays.

It was fiercely cold and I hurried home, pulling my Shuba more closely about me.

PART II

LAWRENCE

LAWRENCE

I

Of some of the events that I am now about to relate it is obvious that I could not have been
an eye-witness--and yet, looking back from the strange isolation that is now my world I find
it incredibly difficult to realise what I saw and what I did not. Was I with Nina and Vera
on that Tuesday night when they stood face to face with one another for the first time? Was
I with Markovitch during his walk through that marvellous new world that he seemed himself
to have created? I know that I shared none of these things..., and yet it seems to me that
I was at the heart of them all. I may have been told many things by the actors in those events--I
may not. I cannot now in retrospect see any of it save as my own personal experience, and as
my own personal experience I must relate it; but, as I have already said at the beginning of
this book, no one is compelled to believe either my tale or my interpretation. Every man would,
I suppose, like to tell his story in the manner of some other man. I can conceive the events
of this part of my narration being interpreted in the spirit of the wildest farce, of the genteelest
comedy, of the most humorous satire--"Other men, Other gifts." I am a dull and pompous fellow,
as Semyonov often tells me; and I hope that I never allowed him to see how deeply I felt the
truth of his words.

Meanwhile I will begin with a small adventure of Henry Bohun's. Apparently, one evening soon
after Nina's party, he found himself about half-past ten in the evening, lonely and unhappy,
walking down the Nevski. Gay and happy crowds wandered by him, brushing him aside, refusing
to look at him, showing in fact no kind of interest in his existence. He was suddenly frightened,
the distances seemed terrific and the Nevski was so hard and bright and shining--that it had
no use at all for any lonely young man. He decided suddenly that he would go and see me. He
found an Isvostchick, but when they reached the Ekaterinsgofsky Canal the surly coachman refused
to drive further, saying that his horse had gone lame, and that this was as far as he had bargained
to go.

Henry was forced to leave the cab, and then found himself outside the little people's cinema,
where he had once been with Vera and myself.

He knew that my rooms were not far away, and he started off beside the white and silent canal,
wondering why he had come, and wishing he were back in bed.

There was still a great deal of the baby in Henry, and ghosts and giants and scaly-headed monsters
were not incredibilities to his young imagination. As he left the main thoroughfare and turned
down past the widening docks, he suddenly knew that he was terrified. There had been stories
of wild attacks on rich strangers, sand-bagging and the rest, often enough, but it was not
of that kind of thing that he was afraid. He told me afterwards that he expected to see "long
thick crawling creatures" creeping towards him over the ice. He continually turned round to
see whether some one were following him. When he crossed the tumbledown bridge that led to
my island it seemed that he was absolutely alone in the whole world. The masts of the ships
dim through the cold mist were like tangled spiders' webs. A strange hard red moon peered over
the towers and chimneys of the distant dockyard. The ice was limitless, and of a dirty grey
pallor, with black shadows streaking it. My island must have looked desolate enough, with its
dirty snow-heaps, old boards and scrap-iron and tumbledown cottages.

Again, as on his first arrival in Petrograd, Henry was faced by the solemn fact that events
are so often romantic in retrospect, but grimly realistic in experience. He reached my lodging
and found the door open. He climbed the dark rickety stairs and entered my sitting-room. The
blinds were not drawn, and the red moon peered through on to the grey shadows that the ice
beyond always flung. The stove was not burning, the room was cold and deserted. Henry called
my name and there was no answer. He went into my bedroom and there was no one there. He came
back and stood there listening.

He could hear the creaking of some bar beyond the window and the melancholy whistle of a distant
train.

He was held there, as though spellbound. Suddenly he thought that he heard some one climbing
the stairs. He gave a cry, and that was answered by a movement so close to him that it was
almost at his elbow.

"Who's there?" he cried. He saw a shadow pass between the moon and himself. In a panic of terror
he cried out, and at the same time struck a match. Some one came towards him, and he saw that
it was Markovitch.

He was so relieved to find that it was a friend that he did not stop to wonder what Markovitch
should be doing hiding in my room. It afterwards struck him that Markovitch looked odd. "Like
a kind of conspirator, in old shabby Shuba with the collar turned up. He looked jolly ill and
dirty, as though he hadn't slept or washed. He didn't seem a bit surprised at seeing me there,
and I think he scarcely realised that it was me. He was thinking of something else so hard
that he couldn't take me in."

"Oh, Bohun!" he said in a confused way.

"Hullo, Nicolai Leontievitch," Bohun said, trying to be unconcerned. "What are you doing here?"

"Came to see Ivan Andreievitch," he said. "Wasn't here; I was going to write to him."

Bohun then lit a candle and discovered that the place was in a very considerable mess. Some
one had been sifting my desk, and papers and letters were lying about the floor. The drawers
of my table were open, and one chair was over-turned. Markovitch stood back near the window,
looking at Bohun suspiciously. They must have been a curious couple for such a position. There
was an awkward pause, and then Bohun, trying to speak easily, said:

"Well, it seems that Durward isn't coming. He's out dining somewhere I expect."

"Probably," said Markovitch drily.

There was another pause, then Markovitch broke out with: "I suppose you think I've been here
trying to steal something."

"Oh no--oh no--no--" stammered Bohun.

"But I have," said Markovitch. "You can look round and see. There it is on every side of you.
I've been trying to find a letter."

"Oh yes," said Bohun nervously.

"Well, that seems to you terrible," went on Markovitch, growing ever fiercer. "Of course it
seems to you perfect Englishmen a dreadful thing. But why heed it?... You all do things just
as bad, only you are hypocrites."

"Oh yes, certainly," said Bohun.

"And now," said Markovitch with a snarl. "I'm sure you will not think me a proper person for
you to lodge with any longer--and you will be right. I am not a proper person. I have no sense
of decency, thank God, and no Russian has any sense of decency, and that is why we are beaten
and despised by the whole world, and yet are finer than them all--so you'd better not lodge
with us any more."

"But of course," said Bohun, disliking more and more this uncomfortable scene--"of course I
shall continue to stay with you. You are my friends, and one doesn't mind what one's friends
do. One's friends are one's friends."

Suddenly, then, Markovitch jerked himself forward, "just as though," Bohun afterwards described
it to me, "he had shot himself out of a catapault."

"Tell me," he said, "is your English friend in love with my wife?"

What Bohun wanted to do then was to run out of the room, down the dark stairs, and away as
fast as his legs would carry him. He had not been in Russia so long that he had lost his English
dislike of scenes, and he was seriously afraid that Markovitch was, as he put it, "bang off
his head."

But at this critical moment, he remembered, it seems, my injunction to him, "to be kind to
Markovitch--to make a friend of him." That had always seemed to him before impossible enough,
but now, at the very moment when Markovitch was at his queerest, he was also at his most pathetic,
looking there in the mist and shadows too untidy and dirty and miserable to be really alarming.
Henry then took courage. "That's all nonsense, Markovitch," he said. "I suppose by 'your English
friend' you mean Lawrence. He thinks the world of your wife, of course, as we all do, but he's
not the fellow to be in love. I don't suppose he's ever been really in love with a woman in
his life. He's a kindly good-hearted chap, Lawrence, and he wouldn't do harm to a fly."

Markovitch peered into Bohun's face. "What did you come here for, any of you?" he asked. "What's
Russia over-run with foreigners for? We'll clear the lot of you out, all of you...." Then he
broke off, with a pathetic little gesture, his hand up to his head. "But I don't know what
I'm saying--I don't mean it, really. Only things are so difficult, and they slip away from one so.

"I love Russia and I love my wife, Mr. Bohun--and they've both left me. But you aren't interested
in that. Why should you be? Only remember when you're inclined to laugh at me that I'm like
a man in a cockle-shell boat--and it isn't my fault. I was put in it."

"But I'm never inclined to laugh," said Bohun eagerly. "I may be young and only an Englishman--but
I shouldn't wonder if I don't understand better than you think. You try and see.... And I'll
tell you another thing, Nicolai Leontievitch, I loved your wife myself--loved her madly--and
she was so good to me and so far above me, that I saw that it was like loving one of the angels.
That's what we all feel, Nicolai Leontievitch, so that you needn't have any fear--she's too
far above all of us. And I only want to be your friend and hers, and to help you in any way I can."

(I can see Bohun saying this, very sincere, his cheeks flushed, eager.)

Markovitch held out both his hands.

"You're right," he cried. "She's above us all. It's true that she's an angel, and we are all
her servants. You have helped me by saying what you have, and I won't forget it. You are right;
I am wasting my time with ridiculous suspicions when I ought to be working. Concentration,
that's what I want, and perhaps you will give it me."

He suddenly came forward and kissed Bohun on both cheeks. He smelt, Bohun thought, of vodka.
Bohun didn't like the embrace, of course, but he accepted it gracefully.

"Now we'll go away," said Markovitch.

"We ought to put things straight," said Bohun.

"No; I shall leave things as they are," said Markovitch, "so that he shall see exactly what
I've done. I'll write a note."

He scribbled a note to me in pencil. I have it still. It ran:

Dear Ivan Andreievitch--I looked for a letter from my wife to you. In doing so I was I suppose
contemptible. But no matter. At least you see me as I am. I clasp your hand, N. Markovitch.

They went away together.

II

I was greatly surprised to receive, a few days later, an invitation from Baron Wilderling;
he asked me to go with him on one of the first evenings in March to a performance of Lermontov's
"Masquerade" at the Alexandra Theatre. I say Lermontov, but heaven knows that that great Russian
poet was not supposed to be going to have much to say in the affair. This performance had been
in preparation for at least ten years, and when such delights as Gordon Craig's setting of
"Hamlet," or Benois' dresses for "La Locandiera" were discussed, the Wise Ones said:

"Ah,--all very well--just wait until you see 'Masquerade.'"

These manifestations of the artistic spirit had not been very numerous of late in Petrograd.
At the beginning of the war there had been many cabarets--"The Cow," "The Calf," "The Dog,"
"The Striped Cat"--and these had been underground cellars, lighted by Chinese lanterns, and
the halls decorated with Futurist paintings by Yakkolyeff or some other still more advanced
spirit. It seemed strange to me as I dressed that evening. I do not know how long it was since
I had put on a dinner-jacket. With the exception of that one other visit to Baron Wilderling
this seemed to be my one link with the old world, and it was curious to feel its fascination,
its air of comfort and order and cleanliness, its courtesy and discipline. "I think I'll leave
these rooms," I thought as I looked about me, "and take a decent flat somewhere."

It is a strange fact, behind which there lies, I believe, some odd sort of moral significance,
that I cannot now recall the events of that evening in any kind of clear detail. I remember
that it was bitterly cold, with a sky that was flooded with stars. The snow had a queer metallic
sheen upon it as though it were coloured ice, and I can see now the Nevski like a slab of some
fiercely painted metal rising out of the very smack of our horses' hoofs as my sleigh sped
along--as though, silkworm-like, I spun it out of the entrails of the sledge. It was all light
and fire and colour that night, with towers of gold and frosted green, and even the black crowds
that thronged the Nevski pavements shot with colour.

Somewhere in one of Shorthouse's stories--in The Little Schoolmaster Mark, I think--he gives
a curious impression of a whirling fantastic crowd of revellers who evoke by their movements
some evil pattern in the air around them, and the boy who is standing in their midst sees this
dark twisted sinister picture forming against the gorgeous walls and the coloured figures until
it blots out the whole scene and plunges him into darkness. I will not pretend that on this
evening I discerned anything sinister or ominous in the gay scene that the Alexandra Theatre
offered me, but I was nevertheless weighed down by some quite unaccountable depression that
would not let me alone. For this I can see now that Lawrence was very largely responsible.
When I met him and the Wilderlings in the foyer of the theatre I saw at once that he was greatly
changed.

The clear open expression of his eyes was gone; his mind was far away from his company--and
it was as though I could see into his brain and watch the repetition of the old argument occurring
again and again and again with always the same questions and answers, the same reproaches,
the same defiances, the same obstinacies. He was caught by what was perhaps the first crisis
of his life. He had never been a man for much contact with his fellow-beings, he had been aloof
and reserved, generous in his judgements of others, severe and narrow in his judgement of himself.
Above all, he had been proud of his strength....

Now he was threatened by something stronger than himself. He could have managed it so long
as he was aware only of his love for Vera.... Now, when, since Nina's party, he knew that also
Vera loved him, he had to meet the tussle of his life.

That, at any rate, is the kind of figure that I give to his mood that evening. He has told
me much of what happened to him afterwards, but nothing of that particular night, except once.
"Do you remember that 'Masquerade' evening?... I was in hell that night...." which, for Lawrence,
was expressive enough.

Both the Baron and his wife were in great spirits. The Baron was more than ever the evocation
of the genius of elegance and order; he seemed carved out of some coloured ivory, behind whose
white perfection burnt a shining resolute flame.

His clothes were so perfect that they would have expressed the whole of him even though his
body had not been there. He was happy. His eyes danced appreciatively; he waved his white gloves
at the scene as though blessing it.

"Of course, Mr. Durward," he said to me, "this is nothing compared with what we could do before
the war--nevertheless here you see, for a moment, a fragment of the old Petersburg--Petersburg
as it shall be, please God, again one day...."

I do not in the least remember who was present that evening, but it was, I believe, a very
distinguished company. The lights blazed, the jewels flashed, and the chatter was tremendous.
The horseshoe-shaped seats behind the stalls clustered in knots and bunches of colour under
the great glitter of electricity about the Royal Box. Artists--Somoff and Benois and Dobujinsky;
novelists like Sologub and Merejkowsky; dancers like Karsavina--actors from all over Petrograd--they
were there, I expect, to add criticism and argument to the adulation of friends and of the
carelessly observant rich Jews and merchants who had come simply to display their jewellery.
Petrograd, like every other city in the world, is artistic only by the persistence of its minority.

I'm sure that there were Princesses and Grand Dukes and Grand Duchesses for any one who needed
them, and it was only in the gallery where the students and their girl-friends were gathered
that the name of Lermontov was mentioned. The name of the evening was "Meyerhold," the gentleman
responsible for the production. At last the Event that had been brewing ceaselessly for the
last ten years--ever since the last Revolution in fact--was to reach creation. The moment of
M. Meyerhold's life had arrived--the moment, had we known it, of many other lives also; but
we did not know it. We buzzed and we hummed, we gasped and we gaped, we yawned and we applauded;
and the rustle of gold tissue, the scent of gold leaf, the thick sticky substance of gold paint,
filled the air, flooded the arena, washed past us into the street outside. Meanwhile M. Meyerhold,
white, perspiring, in his shirt-sleeves with his collar loosened and his hair damp, is in labour
behind the gold tissue to produce the child of his life... and Behold, the Child is produced!

And such a child! It was not I am sure so fantastic an affair in reality as in my rememberance
of it. I have, since then, read Lermontov's play, and I must confess that it does not seem,
in cold truth, to be one of his finest works. It is long and old-fashioned, melodramatic and
clumsy--but then it was not on this occasion Lermontov's play that was the thing. But it was
a masquerade, and that in a sense far from the author's intention. As I watched I remember
that I forgot the bad acting (the hero was quite atrocious), forgot the lapses of taste in
the colour and arrangement of the play, forgot the artifices and elaborate originalities and
false sincerities; there were, I have no doubt, many things in it all that were bad and meretricious--I
was dreaming. I saw, against my will and outside my own agency, mingled with the gold screens,
the purple curtains, the fantasies and extravagances of the costumes, the sudden flashes of
unexpected colour through light or dress or backcloth--pictures from those Galician days that
had been, until Semyonov's return, as I fancied, forgotten.

A crowd of revellers ran down the stage, and a shimmering cloud of gold shot with red and purple
was flung from one end of the hall to the other, and behind it, through it, between it, I saw
the chill light of the early morning, and Nikitin and I sitting on the bench outside the stinking
but that we had used as an operating theatre, watching the first rays of the sun warm, the
cold mountain's rim. I could hear voices, and the murmurs of the sleeping men and the groans
of the wounded. The scene closed. There was space and light, and a gorgeous figure, stiff with
the splendour of his robes, talked in a dark garden with his lady. Their voices murmured, a
lute was played, some one sang, and through the thread of it all I saw that moment when, packed
together on our cart, we hung for an instant on the top of the hill and looked back to a country
that had suddenly crackled into flame. There was that terrific crash as of the smashing of
a world of china, the fierce crackle of the machine-guns, and then the boom of the cannon from
under our very feet... the garden was filled with revellers, laughing, dancing, singing, the
air was filled again with the air of gold paint, the tenor's voice rose higher and higher,
the golden screens closed--the act was ended.

It was as though I had received, in some dim, bewildered fashion, a warning. When the lights
went up, it was some moments before I realised that the Baron was speaking to me, that a babel
of chatter, like a sudden rain storm on a glass roof, had burst on every side of us, and that
a huge Jewess, all bare back and sham pearls, was trying to pass me on her way to the corridor.
The Baron talked away: "Very amusing, don't you think? After Reinhardt, of course, although
they say now that Reinhardt got all his ideas from your man Craig. I'm sure I don't know whether
that's so.... I hope you're more reassured to-night, Mr. Durward. You were full of alarms the
other evening. Look around you and you'll see the true Russia...."

"I can't believe this to be the true Russia," I said. "Petrograd is not the true Russia. I
don't believe that there is a true Russia."

"Well, there you are," he continued eagerly. "No true Russia! Quite so. Very observant. But
we have to pretend there is, and that's what you foreigners are always forgetting. The Russian
is an individualist--give him freedom and he'll lose all sense of his companions. He will pursue
his own idea. Myself and my party are here to prevent him from pursuing his own idea, for the
good of himself and his country. He may be discontented, he may grumble, but he doesn't realise
his luck. Give him his freedom, and in six months you'll see Russia back in the Middle Ages."

"And another six months?" I asked.

"The Stone Age."

"And then?"

"Ah," he said, smiling, "you ask me too much, Mr. Durward. We are speaking of our own generation."

The curtain was up again and I was back in my other world. I cannot tell you anything of the
rest of the play--I remember nothing. Only I know that I was actually living over again those
awful days in the forest--the heat, the flies, the smells, the glassy sheen of the trees, the
perpetual rumble of the guns, the desolate whine of the shells--and then Marie's death, Trenchard's
sorrow, Trenchard's death, that last view of Semyonov... and I felt that I was being made to
remember it all for a purpose, as though my old friend, rich now with his wiser knowledge,
was whispering to me, "All life is bound up. You cannot leave anything behind you; the past,
the present, the future are one. You had pushed us away from you, but we are with you always
for ever. I am your friend for ever, and Marie is your friend, and now, once more, you have
to take your part in a battle, and we have come to you to share it with you. Do not be confused
by history or public events or class struggle or any big names; it is the individual and the
soul of the individual alone that matters. I and Marie and Vera and Nina and Markovitch--our
love for you, your love for us, our courage, our self-sacrifice, our weakness, our defeat,
our progress--these are the things for which life exists; it exists as a training-ground for
the immortal soul...."

With a sweep of colour the stage broke into a mist of movement. Masked and hooded figures in
purple and gold and blue and red danced madly off into a forest of stinking, sodden leaves
and trees as thin as tissue-paper burnt by the sun. The golden screens were drawn forward,
the lights were up again, and the whole theatre was stirring like a coloured paper ant heap.

Outside in the foyer I found Lawrence at my elbow.

"Go and see her," he whispered to me, "as soon as possible! Tell her--tell her--no, tell her
nothing. But see that she's all right and let me know. See her to-morrow--early!"

I could say nothing to him, for the Baron had joined us.

"Good-night! Good-night! A most delightful evening!... Most amusing!... No, thank you, I shall
walk!"

"Come and see us," said the Baroness, smiling.

"Very soon," I answered. I little knew that I should never see either of them again.

III

I awoke that night with a sudden panic that I must instantly see Vera. I, even in the way that
one does when, one is only half awake, struggled out of bed and felt for my clothes. Then I
remembered and climbed back again, but sleep would not return to me. The self-criticism and
self-distrust that were always attacking me and paralysing my action sprang upon me now and
gripped me. What was I to do? How was I to act? I saw Vera and Nina and Lawrence and, behind
them, smiling at me, Semyonov. They were asking for my help, but they were, in some strange,
intangible way, most desperately remote. When I read now in our papers shrill criticisms on
our officials, our Cabinet, our generals, our propagandists, our merchants, for their failure
to deal adequately with Russia, I say: Deal adequately? First you must catch your bird... and
no Western snare has ever caught the Russian bird of paradise, and I dare prophesy that no
Western snare ever will. Had I not broken my heart in the pursuit, and was I not as far as
ever from attainment? The secret of the mystery of life is the isolation that separates every
man from his fellow--the secret of dissatisfaction too; and the only purpose in life is to
realise that isolation, and to love one's fellow-man because of it, and to show one's own courage,
like a flag to which the other travellers may wave their answer; but we Westerners have at
least the waiting comfort of our discipline, of our materialism, of our indifference to ideas.
The Russian, I believe, lives in a world of loneliness peopled only by ideas. His impulses
towards self-confession, towards brotherhood, towards vice, towards cynicism, towards his belief
in God and his scorn of Him, come out of this world; and beyond it he sees his fellow-men as
trees walking, and the Mountain of God as a distant peak, placed there only to emphasise his irony.

I had wanted to be friends with Nina and Vera--I had even longed for it--and now at the crisis
when I must rise and act they were so far away from me that I could only see them, like coloured
ghosts, vanishing into mist.

I would go at once and see Vera and there do what I could. Lawrence must return to England--then
all would be well. Markovitch must be persuaded.... Nina must be told.... I slept and tumbled
into a nightmare of a pursuit, down endless streets, of flying figures.

Next day I went to Vera. I found her, to my joy, alone. I realised at once that our talk would
be difficult. She was grave and severe, sitting back in her chair, her head up, not looking
at me at all, but beyond through the window to the tops of the trees feathery with snow against
the sky of egg-shell blue. I am always beaten by a hostile atmosphere. To-day I was at my worst,
and soon we were talking like a couple of the merest strangers.

She asked me whether I had heard that there were very serious disturbances on the other side
of the river.

"I was on the Nevski early this afternoon," I said, "and I saw about twenty Cossacks go galloping
down towards the Neva. I asked somebody and was told that some women had broken into the bakers'
shops on Vassily Ostrov...."

"It will end as they always end," said Vera. "Some arrests and a few people beaten, and a policeman
will get a medal."

There was a long pause. "I went to 'Masquerade' the other night," I said.

"I hear it's very good...."

"Pretentious and rather vulgar--but amusing all the same."

"Every one's talking about it and trying to get seats...."

"Yes. Meyerhold must be pleased."

"They discuss it much more than they do the war, or even politics. Every one's tired of the war."

I said nothing. She continued:

"So I suppose we shall just go on for years and years.... And then the Empress herself will
be tired one day and it will suddenly stop." She showed a flash of interest, turning to me
and looking at me for the first time since I had come in.

"Ivan Andreievitch, what do you stay in Russia for? Why don't you go back to England?"

I was taken by surprise. I stammered, "Why do I stay? Why, because--because I like it."

"You can't like it. There's nothing to like in Russia."

"There's everything!" I answered. "And I have friends here," I added. But she didn't answer
that, and continued to sit staring out at the trees. We talked a little more about nothing
at all, and then there was another long pause. At last I could endure it no longer, I jumped
to my feet.

"Vera Michailovna," I cried, "what have I done?"

"Done?" she asked me with a look of self-conscious surprise. "What do you mean?"

"You know what I mean well enough," I answered. I tried to speak firmly, but my voice trembled
a little. "You told me I was your friend. When I was ill the other day you came to me and said
that you needed help and that you wanted me to help you. I said that I would--"

I paused.

"Well?" she said, in a hard, unrelenting voice.

"Well--" I hesitated and stammered, cursing myself for my miserable cowardice. "You are in
trouble now, Vera--great trouble--I came here because I am ready to do anything for you--anything--and
you treat me like a stranger, almost like an enemy."

I saw her lip tremble--only for an instant. She said nothing.

"If you've got anything against me since you saw me last," I went on, "tell me and I'll go
away. But I had to see you and also Lawrence--"

At the mention of his name her whole body quivered, but again only for an instant.

"Lawrence asked me to come and see you."

She looked up at me then gravely and coldly, and without the sign of any emotion either in
her face or voice.

"Thank you, Ivan Andreievitch, but I want no help--I am in no trouble. It was very kind of
Mr. Lawrence, but really--"

Then I could endure it no longer. I broke out:

"Vera, what's the matter. You know all this isn't true.... I don't know what idea you have
now in your head, but you must let me speak to you. I've got to tell you this--that Lawrence
must go back to England, and as soon as possible--and I will see that he does--"

That did its work. In an instant she was upon me like a wild beast, springing from her chair,
standing close to me, her head flung back, her eyes furious.

"You wouldn't dare!" she cried. "It's none of your business, Ivan Andreievitch. You say you're
my friend. You're not. You're my enemy--my enemy. I don't care for him, not in the very least--he
is nothing to me--nothing to me at all. But he mustn't go back to England. It will ruin his
career. You will ruin him for life, Ivan Andreievitch. What business is it of yours? You imagine--because
of what you fancied you saw at Nina's party. There was nothing at Nina's party--nothing. I
love my husband, Ivan Andreievitch, and you are my enemy if you say anything else. And you
pretend to be his friend, but you are his enemy if you try to have him sent back to England....
He must not go. For the matter of that, I will never see him again--never--if that is what
you want. See, I promise you never--never--" She suddenly broke down--she, Vera Michailovna,
the proudest woman I had ever known, turning from me, her head in her hands, sobbing, her shoulders
bent.

I was most deeply moved. I could say nothing at first, then, when the sound of her sobbing
became unbearable to me, I murmured,

"Vera, please. I have no power. I can't make him go. I will only do what you wish. Vera, please,
please--"

Then, with her back still turned to me, I heard her say,

"Please, go. I didn't mean--I didn't... but go now... and come back--later."

I waited a minute, and then, miserable, terrified of the future, I went.

IV

Next night (it was Friday evening) Semyonov paid me a visit. I was just dropping to sleep in
my chair. I had been reading that story of De la Mare's The Return--one of the most beautiful
books in our language, whether for its spirit, its prose, or its poetry--and something of the
moon-lit colour of its pages had crept into my soul, so that the material world was spun into
threads of the finest silk behind which other worlds were more and more plainly visible. I
had not drawn my blind, and a wonderful moon shone clear on to the bare boards of my room,
bringing with its rays the mother-of-pearl reflections of the limitless ice, and these floated
on my wall in trembling waves of opaque light. In the middle of this splendour I dropped slowly
into slumber, the book falling from my hands, and I, on my part, seeming to float lazily backwards
and forwards, as though, truly, one were at the bottom of some crystal sea, idly and happily
drowned.

From all of this I was roused by a sharp knock on my door, and I started up, still bewildered
and bemused, but saying to myself aloud, "There's some one there! there's some one there!..."
I stood for quite a while, listening, on the middle of my shining floor, then the knock was
almost fiercely repeated. I opened the door and, to my surprise, found Semyonov standing there.
He came in, smiling, very polite of course.

"You'll forgive me, Ivan Andreievitch," he said. "This is terribly unceremonious. But I had
an urgent desire to see you, and you wouldn't wish me, in the circumstances, to have waited."

"Please," I said. I went to the window and drew the blinds. I lit the lamp. He took off his
Shuba and we sat down. The room was very dim now, and I could only see his mouth and square
beard behind the lamp.

"I've no Samovar, I'm afraid," I said. "If I'd known you were coming I'd have told her to have
it ready. But it's too late now. She's gone to bed."

"Nonsense," he said brusquely. "You know that I don't care about that. Now we'll waste no time.
Let us come straight to the point at once. I've come to give you some advice, Ivan Andreievitch--very
simple advice. Go home to England." Before he had finished the sentence I had felt the hostility
in his voice; I knew that it was to be a fight between us, and strangely, at once the self-distrust
and cowardice from which I had been suffering all those weeks left me. I felt warm and happy.
I felt that with Semyonov I knew how to deal. I was afraid of Vera and Nina, perhaps, because
I loved them, but of Semyonov, thank God, I was not afraid.

"Well, now, that's very kind of you," I said, "to take so much interest in my movements. I
didn't know that it mattered to you so much where I was. Why must I go?"

"Because you are doing no good here. You are interfering in things of which you have no knowledge.
When we met before you interfered, and you must honestly admit that you did not improve things.
Now it is even more serious. I must ask you to leave my family alone, Ivan Andreievitch."

"Your family!" I retorted, laughing. "Upon my word, you do them great honour. I wonder whether
they'd be very proud and pleased if they knew of your adoption of them. I haven't noticed on
their side any very great signs of devotion."

He laughed. "No, you haven't noticed, Ivan Andreievitch. But there, you don't really notice
very much. You think you see the devil of a lot and are a mighty clever fellow; but we're Russians,
you know, and it takes more than sentimental mysticism to understand us. But even if you did
understand us--which you don't--the real point is that we don't want you, any of you, patronising,
patting us on the shoulder, explaining us to ourselves, talking about our souls, our unpunctuality,
and our capacity for drink. However, that's merely in a general way. In a personal, direct,
and individual way, I beg you not to visit my family again. Stick to your own countrymen."

Although he spoke obstinately, and with a show of assurance, I realised, behind his words,
his own uncertainty.

"See here, Semyonov," I said. "It's just my own Englishmen that I am going to stick to. What
about Lawrence? And what about Bohun? Will you prevent me from continuing my friendship with them?"

"Lawrence... Lawrence," he said slowly, in a voice quite other than his earlier one, and as
though he were talking aloud to himself. "Now, that's strange... there's a funny thing. A heavy,
dull, silent Englishman, as ugly as only an Englishman can be, and the two of them are mad
about him--nothing in him--nothing--and yet there it is. It's the fidelity in the man, that's
what it is, Durward...." He suddenly called out the word aloud, as though he'd made a discovery.
"Fidelity... fidelity... that's what we Russians admire, and there's a man with not enough
imagination to make him unfaithful. Fidelity!--lack of imagination, lack of freedom--that's
all fidelity is.... But I'm faithful.... God knows I'm faithful--always! always!"

He stared past me. I swear that he did not see me, that I had vanished utterly from his vision.
I waited. He was leaning forward, pressing both his thick white hands on the table. His gaze
must have pierced the ice beyond the walls, and the worlds beyond the ice.

Then quite suddenly he came back to me and said very quietly,

"Well, there it is, Ivan Andreievitch.... You must leave Vera and Nina alone. It isn't your
affair."

We continued the discussion then in a strange and friendly way. "I believe it to be my affair,"
I answered quietly, "simply because they care for me and have asked me to help them if they
were in trouble. I still deny that Vera cares for Lawrence.... Nina has had some girl's romantic
idea perhaps... but that is the extent of the trouble. You are trying to make things worse,
Alexei Petrovitch, for your own purposes--and God only knows what they are."

He now spoke so quietly that I could scarcely hear his words. He was leaning forward on the
table, resting his head on his hands and looking gravely at me.

"What I can't understand, Ivan Andreievitch," he said, "is why you're always getting in my
way. You did so in Galicia, and now here you are again. It is not as though you were strong
or wise--no, it is because you are persistent. I admire you in a way, you know, but now, this
time, I assure you that you are making a great mistake in remaining. You will be able to influence
neither Vera Michailovna nor your bullock of an Englishman when the moment comes. At the crisis
they will never think of you at all, and the end of it simply will be that all parties concerned
will hate you. I don't wish you any harm, and I assure you that you will suffer terribly if
you stay.... By the way, Ivan Andreievitch," his voice suddenly dropped, "you haven't ever
had--by chance--just by chance--any photograph of Marie Ivanovna with you, have you? Just by
chance, you know...."

"No," I said shortly, "I never had one."

"No--of course--not. I only thought.... But of course you wouldn't--no--no.... Well, as I was
saying, you'd better leave us all to our fate. You can't prevent things--you can't indeed."
I looked at him without speaking. He returned my gaze.

"Tell me one thing," I said, "before I answer you. What are you doing to Markovitch, Alexei
Petrovitch?"

"Markovitch!" He repeated the name with an air of surprise as though he had never heard it
before. "What do you mean?"

"You have some plan with regard to him," I said. "What is it?"

He laughed then. "I a plan! My dear Durward, how romantic you always insist on being! I a plan!
Your plunges into Russian psychology are as naïve as the girl who pays her ten kopecks to see
the Fat Woman at the Fair! Markovitch and I understand one another. We trust one another. He
is a simple fellow, but I trust him."

"Do you remember," I said, "that the other day at the Jews' Market you told me the story of
the man who tortured his friend, until the man shot him--simply because he was tired of life
and too proud to commit suicide. Why did you tell me that story?"

"Did I tell it you?" he asked indifferently. "I had forgotten. But it is of no importance.
You know, Ivan Andreievitch, that what I told you before is true.... We don't want you here
any more. I tell you in a perfectly friendly way. I bear you no malice. But we're tired of
your sentimentality. I'm not speaking only for myself--I'm not indeed. We feel that you avoid
life to a ridiculous extent, and that you have no right to talk to us Russians on such a subject.
What, for instance, do you know about women? For years I slept with a different woman every
night of the week--old and young, beautiful and ugly, some women like men, some like God, some
like the gutter. That teaches you something about women--but only something. Afterwards I found
that there was only one woman--I left all the others like dirty washing--I was supremely faithful...
so I learnt the rest. Now you have never been faithful nor unfaithful--I'm sure that you have
not. Then about God? When have you ever thought about Him? Why, you are ashamed to mention
His name. If an Englishman speaks of God when other men are present every one laughs--and yet
why? It is a very serious and interesting question. God exists undoubtedly, and so we must
make up our minds about Him. We must establish some relationship--what it is does not matter--that
is our individual 'case'--but only the English establish no relationship and then call it a
religion.... And so in this affair of my family. What does it matter what they do? That is
the only thing of which you think, that they should die or disgrace their name or be unhappy
or quarrel.... Pooh! What are all those things compared with the idea behind them? If they
wish to sacrifice happiness for an idea, that is their good luck, and no Russian would think
of preventing them. But you come in with your English morality and sentiment, and scream and
cry.... No, Ivan Andreievitch, go home! go home!"

I waited to be quite sure that he had finished, and then I said,

"That's all as it may be, Alexei Petrovitch. It may be as you say. The point is, that I remain
here."

He got up from his chair. "You are determined on that?"

"I am determined," I answered.

"Nothing will change you?"

"Nothing."

"Then it is a battle between us?"

"If you like."

"So be it."

I helped him on with his Shuba. He said, in an ordinary conversational tone,

"There may be trouble to-morrow. There's been shooting by the Nicholas Station this afternoon,
I hear. I should avoid the Nevski to-morrow."

I laughed. "I'm not afraid of that kind of death, Alexei Petrovitch," I said.

"No," he said, looking at me. "I will do you justice. You are not."

He pulled his Shuba close about him.

"Good-night, Ivan Andreievitch," he said. "It's been a very pleasant talk."

"Very," I answered. "Good-night,"

After he had gone I drew back the blinds and let the moonlight flood the room.

V

I feel conscious, as I approach the centre of my story, that there is an appearance of uncertainty
in the way that I pass from one character to another. I do not defend that uncertainty.

What I think I really feel now, on looking back, is that each of us--myself, Semyonov, Vera,
Nina, Lawrence, Bohun, Grogoff, yes, and the Rat himself--was a part of a mysterious figure
who was beyond us, outside us, and above us all. The heart, the lungs, the mouth, the eyes...
used against our own human agency, and yet free within that domination for the exercise of
our own free will. Have you never felt when you have been swept into the interaction of some
group of persons that you were being employed as a part of a figure that without you would
be incomplete? The figure is formed.... For an instant it remains, gigantic, splendid, towering
above mankind, as a symbol, a warning, a judgement, an ideal, a threat. Dimly you recognise
that you have played some part in the creation of that figure, and that living for a moment,
as you have done, in some force outside your individuality, you have yet expressed that same
individuality more nobly than any poor assertion of your own small lonely figure could afford.
You have been used and now you are alone again.... You were caught up and united to your fellowmen.
God appeared to you--not, as you had expected, in a vision cut off from the rest of the world,
but in a revelation that you shared and that was only revealed because you were uniting with
others. And yet your individuality was still there, strengthened, heightened, purified.

And the vision of the figure remains....

When I woke on Saturday morning, after my evening with Semyonov, I was conscious that I was
relieved as though I had finally settled some affair whose uncertainty had worried me. I lay
in bed chuckling as though I had won a triumph over Semyonov, as though I said to myself, "Well,
I needn't be afraid of him any longer." It was a most beautiful day, crystal clear, with a
stainless blue sky and the snow like a carpet of jewels, and I thought I would go and see how
the world was behaving. I walked down the Morskaia, finding it quiet enough, although I fancied
that the faces of the passers-by were anxious and nervous. Nevertheless, the brilliant sunshine
and the clear peaceful beauty of the snow reassured me--the world was too beautiful and well-ordered
a place to allow disturbance. Then at the corner of the English shop where the Morskaia joins
the Nevski Prospect, I realised that something had occurred. It was as though the world that
I had known so long, and with whom I felt upon such intimate terms, had suddenly screwed round
its face and showed me a new grin.

The broad space of the Nevski was swallowed up by a vast crowd, very quiet, very amiable, moving
easily, almost slothfully, in a slowly stirring stream.

As I looked up the Nevski I realised what it was that had given me the first positive shock
of an altered world. The trams had stopped. I had never seen the Nevski without its trams;
I had always been forced to stand on the brink, waiting whilst the stream of Isvostchicks galloped
past and the heavy, lumbering, coloured elephants tottered along, amiable and slow and good-natured
like everything else in that country. Now the elephants were gone; the Isvostchicks were gone.
So far as my eye could see, the black stream flooded the shining way.

I mingled with the crowd and found myself slowly propelled in an amiable, aimless manner up
the street.

"What's the matter?" I asked a cheerful, fat little "Chinovnik," who seemed to be tethered
to me by some outside invincible force.

"I don't know...." he said. "They're saying there's been some shooting up by the Nicholas Station--but
that was last night. Some women had a procession about food.... Tak oni gavoryat--so they say....
But I don't know. People have just come out to see what they can see...."

And so they had--women, boys, old men, little children. I could see no signs of ill-temper
anywhere, only a rather open-mouthed wonder and sense of expectation.

A large woman near me, with a shawl over her head and carrying a large basket, laughed a great
deal. "No, I wouldn't go," she said. "You go and get it for yourself--I'm not coming. Not I,
I was too clever for that." Then she would turn, shrilly calling for some child who was apparently
lost in the crowd. "Sacha!... Ah! Sacha!" she cried--and turning again, "Eh! look at the Cossack!...
There's a fine Cossack!"

It was then that I noticed the Cossacks. They were lined up along the side of the pavement,
and sometimes they would suddenly wheel and clatter along the pavement itself, to the great
confusion of the crowd who would scatter in every direction.

They were fine-looking men, and their faces expressed childish and rather worried amiability.
The crowd obviously feared them not at all, and I saw a woman standing with her hand on the
neck of one of the horses, talking in a very friendly fashion to the soldier who rode it. "That's
strange," I thought to myself; "there's something queer here." It was then, just at the entrance
of the "Malaia Koniushennaia," that a strange little incident occurred. Some fellow--I could
just see his shaggy head, his pale face, and black beard--had been shouting something, and
suddenly a little group of Cossacks moved towards him and he was surrounded. They turned off
with him towards a yard close at hand. I could hear his voice shrilly protesting; the crowd
also moved behind, murmuring. Suddenly a Cossack, laughing, said something. I could not hear
his words, but every one near me laughed. The little Chinovnik at my side said to me, "That's
right. They're not going to shoot, whatever happens--not on their brothers, they say. They'll
let the fellow go in a moment. It's only just for discipline's sake. That's right. That's the
spirit!"

"But what about the police?" I asked.

"Ah, the police!" His cheery, good-natured face was suddenly dark and scowling. "Let them try,
that's all. It's Protopopoff who's our enemy--not the Cossacks."

And a woman near him repeated.

"Yes, yes, it's Protopopoff. Hurrah for the Cossacks!"

I was squeezed now into a corner, and the crowd swirled and eddied about me in a tangled stream,
slow, smiling, confused, and excited. I pushed my way along, and at last tumbled down the dark
stone steps into the "Cave de la Grave," a little restaurant patronised by the foreigners and
certain middle-class Russians. It was full, and every one was eating his or her meal very comfortably
as though nothing at all were the matter. I sat down with a young American, an acquaintance
of mine attached to the American Embassy.

"There's a tremendous crowd in the Nevski," I said.

"Guess I'm too hungry to trouble about it," he answered.

"Do you think there's going to be any trouble?" I asked.

"Course not. These folks are always wandering round. M. Protopopoff has it in hand all right."

"Yes, I suppose he has," I answered with a sigh.

"You seem to want trouble," he said, suddenly looking up at me.

"No, I don't want trouble," I answered. "But I'm sick of this mess, this mismanagement, thievery,
lying--one's tempted to think that anything would be better--"

"Don't you believe it," he said brusquely. "Excuse me, Durward, I've been in this country five
years. A revolution would mean God's own upset, and you've got a war on, haven't you?"

"They might fight better than ever," I argued.

"Fight!" he laughed. "They're dam sick of it all, that's what they are. And a revolution would
leave 'em like a lot of silly sheep wandering on to a precipice. But there won't be no revolution.
Take my word."

It was at that moment that I saw Boris Grogoff come in. He stood in the doorway looking about
him, and he had the strangest air of a man walking in his sleep, so bewildered, so rapt, so
removed was he. He stared about him, looked straight at me, but did not recognise me; finally,
when a waiter showed him a table, he sat down still gazing in front of him. The waiter had
to speak to him twice before he ordered his meal, and then he spoke so strangely that the fellow
looked at him in astonishment. "Guess that chap's seen the Millennium," remarked my American.
"Or he's drunk, maybe."

This appearance had the oddest effect on me. It was as though I had been given a sudden conviction
that after all there was something behind this disturbance. I saw, during the whole of the
rest of that day, Grogoff's strange face with the exalted, bewildered eyes, the excited mouth,
the body tense and strained as though waiting for a blow. And now, always when I look back
I see Boris Grogoff standing in the doorway of the "Cave de la Grave" like a ghost from another
world warning me.

In the afternoon I had a piece of business that took me across the river. I did my business
and turned homewards. It was almost dark, and the ice of the Neva was coloured a faint green
under the grey sky; the buildings rose out of it like black bubbles poised over a swamp. I
was in that strange quarter of Petrograd where the river seems, like some sluggish octopus,
to possess a thousand coils. Always you are turning upon a new bend of the ice, secretly stretching
into darkness; strange bridges suddenly meet you, and then, where you had expected to find
a solid mass of hideous flats, there will be a cluster of masts and the smell of tar, and little
fierce red lights like the eyes of waiting beasts.

I seemed to stand with ice on every side of me, and so frail was my trembling wooden bridge
that it seemed an easy thing for the ice, that appeared to press with tremendous weight against
its banks, to grind the supports to fragments. There was complete silence on every side of
me. The street to my left was utterly deserted. I heard no cries nor calls--only the ice seemed
once and again to quiver as though some submerged creature was moving beneath it. That vast
crowd on the Nevski seemed to be a dream. I was in a world that had fallen into decay and desolation,
and I could smell rotting wood, and could fancy that frozen blades of grass were pressing up
through the very pavement stones. Suddenly an Isvostchick stumbled along past me, down the
empty street, and the bumping rattle of the sledge on the snow woke me from my laziness. I
started off homewards. When I had gone a little way and was approaching the bridge over the
Neva some man passed me, looked back, stopped and waited for me. When I came up to him I saw
to my surprise that it was the Rat. He had his coat-collar turned over his ears and his dirty
fur cap pulled down over his forehead. His nose was very red, and his thin hollow cheeks a
dirty yellow colour.

"Good-evening, Barin," he said, grinning.

"Good-evening," I said. "Where are you slipping off to so secretly?"

"Slipping off?" He did not seem to understand my word. I repeated it.

"Oh, I'm not slipping off," he said almost indignantly. "No, indeed. I'm just out for a walk
like your Honour, to see the town."

"What have they been doing this afternoon?" I asked. "There's been a fine fuss on the Nevski."

"Yes, there has...." he said, chuckling. "But it's nothing to the fuss there will be."

"Nonsense," I said. "The police have got it all in control already. You'll see to-morrow...."

"And the soldiers, Barin?"

"Oh, the soldiers won't do anything. Talk's one thing--action's another."

He laughed to himself and seemed greatly amused. This irritated me.

"Well, what do you know?" I asked.

"I know nothing," he chuckled. "But remember, Barin, in a week's time, if you want me I'm your
friend. Who knows? In a week I may be a rich man."

"Some one else's riches," I answered.

"Certainly," he said. "And why not? Why should he have things? Is he a better man than I? Possibly--but
then it is easy for a rich man to keep within the law. And then Russia's meant for the poor
man. However," he continued, with great contempt in his voice, "that's politics--dull stuff.
While the others talk I act."

"And what about the Germans?" I asked him. "Does it occur to you that when you've collected
your spoils the Germans will come in and take them?"

"Ah, you don't understand us, Barin," he said, laughing. "You're a good man and a kind man,
but you don't understand us. What can the Germans do? They can't take the whole of Russia.
Russia's a big country.... No, if the Germans come there'll be more for us to take."

We stood for a moment under a lamp-post. He put his hand on my arm and looked up at me with
his queer ugly face, his sentimental dreary eyes, his red nose, and his hard, cruel little mouth.

"But no one shall touch you--unless it's myself if I'm very drunk. But you, knowing me, will
understand afterwards that I was at least not malicious--"

I laughed. "And this mysticism that they tell us about in England. Are you mystical, Rat? Have
you a beautiful soul?"

He sniffed and blew his nose with his hand.

"I don't know what you're talking about, Barin--I suppose you haven't a rouble or two on you?"

"No, I haven't," I answered. He looked up and down the bridge as though he were wondering whether
an attack on me was worth while. He saw a policeman and decided that it wasn't.

"Well, good-night, Barin," he said cheerfully. He shuffled off. I looked at the vast Neva,
pale green and dim grey, so silent under the bridges. The policeman, enormous under his high
coat, the sure and confident guardian of that silent world, came slowly towards me, and I turned
away home.

VI

The next day, Sunday, I have always called in my mind Nina's day, and so I propose to deal
with it here, describing it as far as possible from her point of view and placing her in the
centre of the picture.

The great fact about Nina, at the end, when everything has been said, must always be her youth.
That Russian youthfulness is something that no Western people can ever know, because no Western
people are accustomed, from their very babyhood, to bathe in an atmosphere that deals only
with ideas.

In no Russian family is the attempt to prevent children from knowing what life really is maintained
for long; the spontaneous impetuosity of the parents breaks it down. Nevertheless the Russian
boy and girl, when they come to the awkward age, have not the least idea of what life really
is. Dear me, no! They possess simply a bundle of incoherent ideas, untested, ill-digested,
but a wonderful basis for incessant conversation. Experience comes, of course, and for the
most part it is unhappy experience.

Life is a tragedy to every Russian simply because the daily round is forgotten by him in his
pursuit of an ultimate meaning. We in the West have learnt to despise ultimate meanings as
unpractical and rather priggish things.

Nina had thought so much and tested so little. She loved so vehemently that her betrayal was
the more inevitable. For instance, she did not love Boris Grogoff in the least, but he was
in some way connected with the idea of freedom. She was, I am afraid, beginning to love Lawrence
desperately--the first love of her life--and he too was connected with the idea of freedom
because he was English. We English do not understand sufficiently how the Russians love us
for our easy victory over tyranny, and despise us for the small use we have made of our victory--and
then, after all, there is something to be said for tyranny too....

But Nina did not see why she should not capture Lawrence. She felt her vitality, her health,
her dominant will beat so strongly within her that it seemed to her that nothing could stop
her. She loved him for his strength, his silence, his good-nature, yes, and his stupidity.
This last gave her a sense of power over him, and of motherly tenderness too. She loved his
stiff and halting Russian--it was as though he were but ten years old.

I am convinced, too, that she did not consider that she was doing any wrong to Vera. In the
first place she was not as yet really sure that Vera cared for him. Vera, who had been to her
always a mother rather than a sister, seemed an infinite age. It was ridiculous that Vera should
fall in love--Vera so stately and stern and removed from passion. Those days were over for
Vera, and, with her strong sense of duty and the fitness of things, she would realise that.
Moreover Nina could not believe that Lawrence cared for Vera. Vera was not the figure to be
loved in that way. Vera's romance had been with Markovitch years and years ago, and now, whenever
Nina looked at Markovitch, it made it at once impossible to imagine Vera in any new romantic
situation.

Then had come the night of the birthday party, and suspicion had at once flamed up again. She
was torn that night and for days afterwards with a raging jealousy.

She hated Vera, she hated Lawrence, she hated herself. Then again her mood had changed. It
was, after all, natural that he should have gone to protect Vera; she was his hostess; he was
English, and did not know how trivial a Russian scene of temper was. He had meant nothing,
and poor Vera, touched that at her matronly age any one should show her attention, had looked
at him gratefully.

That was all. She loved Vera; she would not hurt her with such ridiculous suspicions, and,
on that Friday evening when Semyonov had come to see me, she had been her old self again, behaving
to Vera with all the tenderness and charm and affection that were her most delightful gifts.

On this Sunday morning she was reassured; she was gay and happy and pleased with the whole
world. The excitement of the disturbances of the last two days provided an emotional background,
not too thrilling to be painful, because, after all, these riots would, as usual, come to nothing,
but it was pleasant to feel that the world was buzzing, and that without paying a penny one
might see a real cinematograph show simply by walking down the Nevski.

I do not know, of course, what exactly happened that morning until Semyonov came in, but I
can see the Markovitch family, like ten thousand other Petrograd families, assembling somewhere
about eleven o'clock round the Samovar, all in various stages of undress, all sleepy and pale-faced,
and a little befogged, as all good Russians are when, through the exigencies of sleep, they've
been compelled to allow their ideas to escape from them for a considerable period. They discussed,
of course, the disturbances, and I can imagine Markovitch portentously announcing that "It
was all over, he had the best of reasons-for knowing...."

As he once explained to me, he was at his worst on Sunday, because he was then so inevitably
reminded of his lost youth.

"It's a gloomy day, Ivan Andreievitch, for all those who have not quite done what they expected.
The bells ring, and you feel that they ought to mean something to you, but of course one's
gone past all that.... But it's a pity...."

Nina's only thought that morning was that Lawrence was coming in the afternoon to take her
for a walk. She had arranged it all. After a very evident hint from her he had suggested it.
Vera had refused, because some aunts were coming to call, and finally it had been arranged
that after the walk Lawrence should bring Nina home, stay to half-past six dinner, and that
then they should all go to the French theatre. I also was asked to dinner and the theatre.
Nina was sure that something must happen that afternoon. It would be a crisis.... She felt
within her such vitality, such power, such domination, that she believed that to-day she could
command anything.... She was, poor child, supremely confident, and that not through conceit
or vanity, but simply because she was a fatalist and believed that destiny had brought Lawrence
to her feet....

It was the final proof of her youth that she saw the whole universe working to fulfil her desire.

The other proof of her youth was that she began, for the first time, to suffer desperately.
The most casual mention of Lawrence's name would make her heart beat furiously, suffocating
her, her throat dry, her cheeks hot, her hands cold. Then, as the minute of his arrival approached,
she would sit as though she were the centre of a leaping fire that gradually inch by inch was
approaching nearer to her, the flames staring like little eyes on the watch, the heat advancing
and receding in waves like hands. She hoped that no one would notice her agitation. She talked
nonsense to whomsoever was near to her with little nervous laughs; she seemed to herself to
be terribly unreal, with a fierce hostile creature inside her who took her heart in his hot
hands and pressed it, laughing at her.

And then the misery! That little episode at the circus of which I had been a witness was only
the first of many dreadful ventures. She confessed to me afterwards that she did not herself
know what she was doing. And the final result of these adventures was to encourage her because
he had not repelled her. He must have noticed, she thought, the times when her hand had touched
his, when his mouth had been, so close to hers that their very thoughts had mingled, when she
had felt the stuff of his coat, and even for an instant stroked it. He must have noticed these
things, and still he had never rebuffed her. He was always so kind to her; she fancied that
his voice had a special note of tenderness in it when he spoke to her, and when she looked
at his ugly, quiet, solid face, she could not believe that they were not meant for one another.
He must want her, her gaiety, happiness, youth--it would be wrong for him not to! There could
be no girls in that stupid, practical, far-away England who would be the wife to him that she
would be.

Then the cursed misery of that waiting! They could hear in their sitting-room the steps coming
up the stone stairs outside their flat, and every step seemed to be his. Ah, he had come earlier
than he had fixed. Vera had stupidly forgotten, perhaps, or he had found waiting any longer
impossible. Yes, surely that was his footfall; she knew it so well. There, now he was turning
towards the door; there was a pause; soon there would be the tinkle of the bell!...

No, he had mounted higher; it was not Lawrence--only some stupid, ridiculous creature who was
impertinently daring to put her into this misery of disappointment. And then she would wonder
suddenly whether she had been looking too fixedly at the door, whether they had noticed her,
and she would start and look about her self-consciously, blushing a little, her eyes hot and
suspicious.

I can see her in all these moods; it was her babyhood that was leaving her at last. She was
never to be quite so spontaneously gay again, never quite so careless, so audacious, so casual,
so happy. In Russia the awkward age is very short, very dramatic, often enough very tragic.
Nina was as helpless as the rest of the world.

At any rate, upon this Sunday, she was sure of her afternoon. Her eyes were wild with excitement.
Any one who looked at her closely must have noticed her strangeness, but they were all discussing
the events of the last two days; there were a thousand stories, nearly all of them false and
a few; true facts.

No one in reality knew anything except that there had been some demonstrations, a little shooting,
and a number of excited speeches. The town on that lovely winter morning seemed absolutely quiet.

Somewhere about mid-day Semyonov came in, and without thinking about it Nina suddenly found
herself sitting in the window talking to him. This conversation, which was in its results to
have an important influence on her whole life, continued the development which that eventful
Sunday was to effect in her. Its importance lay very largely in the fact that her uncle had
never spoken to her seriously like a grown-up woman before. Semyonov was, of course, quite
clever enough to realise the change which was transforming her, and he seized it, at once,
for his own advantage. She, on her side, had always, ever since she could remember, been intrigued
by him. She told me once that almost her earliest memory was being lifted into the air by her
uncle and feeling the thick solid strength of his grasp, so that she was like a feather in
the air, poised on one of his stubborn fingers; when he kissed her each hair of his beard seemed
like a pale, taut wire, so stiff and resolute was it. Her Uncle Ivan was a flabby, effeminate
creature in comparison. Then, as she had grown older, she had realised that he was a dangerous
man, dangerous to women, who loved and feared and hated him. Vera said that he had great power
over them and made them miserable, and that he was, therefore, a bad, wicked man. But this
only served to make him, in Nina's eyes, the more a romantic figure.

However, he had never treated her in the least seriously, had tossed her in the air spiritually
just as he had done physically when she was a baby, had given her chocolates, taken her once
or twice to the cinema, laughed at her, and, she felt, deeply despised her. Then came the war
and he had gone to the Front, and she had almost forgotten him. Then came the romantic story
of his being deeply in love with a nurse who had been killed, that he was heartbroken and inconsolable
and a changed man. Was it wonderful that on his return to Petrograd she should feel again that
old Byronic (every Russian is still brought up on Byron) romance? She did not like him, but--well--Vera
was a staid old-fashioned thing.... Perhaps they all misjudged him; perhaps he really needed
comfort and consolation. He certainly seemed kinder than he used to be. But, until to-day,
he had never talked to her seriously.

How her heart leapt into her throat when he began, at once, in his quiet soft voice,

"Well, Nina dear, tell me all about it. I know, so you needn't be frightened. I know and I
understand."

She flung a terrified glance around her, but Uncle Ivan was reading the paper at the other
end of the room, her brother-in-law was cutting up little pieces of wood in his workshop, and
Vera was in the kitchen.

"What do you mean?" she said in a whisper. "I don't understand."

"Yes, you do," he answered, smiling at her. "You know, Nina, you're in love with the Englishman,
and have been for a long time. Well, why not? Don't be so frightened about it. It is quite
time that you should be in love with some one, and he's a fine strong young man--not over-blessed
with brains, but you can supply that part of it. No, I think it's a very good match. I like
it. Believe me, I'm your friend, Nina." He put his hand on hers.

He looked so kind, she told me afterwards, that she felt as though she had never known him
before; her eyes were filled with tears, so overwhelming a relief was it to find some one at
last who sympathised and understood and wanted her to succeed. I remember that she was wearing
that day a thin black velvet necklet with a very small diamond in front of it. She had been
given it by Uncle Ivan on her last birthday, and instead of making her look grown-up it gave
her a ridiculously childish appearance as though she had stolen into Vera's bedroom and dressed
up in her things. Then, with her fair tousled hair and large blue eyes, open as a rule with
a startled expression as though she had only just awakened into an astonishingly exciting world,
she was altogether as unprotected and as guileless and as honest as any human being alive.
I don't know whether Semyonov felt her innocence and youth--I expect he considered very little
beside the plans that he had then in view.... and innocence had never been very interesting
to him. He spoke to her just as a kind, wise, thoughtful uncle ought to speak to a niece caught
up into her first love-affair. From the moment of that half-hour's conversation in the window
Nina adored him, and believed every word that came from his mouth.

"You see, Nina dear," he went on, "I've not spoken to you before because you neither liked
me nor trusted me. Quite rightly you listened to what others said about me--"

"Oh no," interrupted Nina. "I never listen to anybody."

"Well then," said Semyonov, "we'll say that you were very naturally influenced by them. And
quite right--perfectly right. You were only a girl then--you are a woman now. I had nothing
to say to you then--now I can help you, give you a little advice perhaps--"

I don't know what Nina replied. She was breathlessly pleased and excited.

"What I want," he went on, "is the happiness of you all. I was sorry when I came back to find
that Nicholas and Vera weren't such friends as they used to be. I don't mean that there's anything
wrong at all, but they must be brought closer together--and that's what you and I, who know
them and love them, can do--"

"Yes, yes," said Nina eagerly. Semyonov then explained that the thing that really was, it seemed
to him, keeping them apart were Nicholas's inventions. Of course Vera had long ago seen that
these inventions were never going to come to anything, that they were simply wasting Nicholas's
time when he might, by taking an honest clerkship or something of the kind, be maintaining
the whole household, and the very thought of him sitting in his workshop irritated her. The
thing to do, Semyonov explained, was to laugh Nicholas out of his inventions, to show him that
it was selfish nonsense his pursuing them, to persuade him to make an honest living.

"But I thought," said Nina, "you approved of them. I heard you only the other day telling him
that it was a good idea, and that he must go on--"

"Ah!" said Semyonov. "That was my weakness, I'm afraid. I couldn't bear to disappoint him.
But it was wrong of me--and I knew it at the time."

Now Nina had always rather admired her brother-in-law's inventions. She had thought it very
clever of him to think of such things, and she had wondered why other people did not applaud
him more.

Now suddenly she saw that it was very selfish of him to go on with these things when they never
brought in a penny, and Vera had to do all the drudgery. She was suddenly indignant with him.
In how clear a light her uncle placed things!

"One thing to do," said Semyonov, "is to laugh at him about them. Not very much, not unkindly,
but enough to make him see the folly of it."

"I think he does see that already, poor Nicholas," said Nina with wisdom beyond her years.

"To bring Nicholas and Vera together," said Semyonov, "that's what we have to do, you and I.
And believe me, dear Nina, I on my side will do all I can to help you. We are friends, aren't
we?--not only uncle and niece."

"Yes," said Nina breathlessly. That was all that there was to the conversation, but it was
quite enough to make Nina feel as though she had already won her heart's desire. If any one
as clever as her uncle believed in this, then it must be true. It had not been only her own
silly imagination--Lawrence cared for her. Her uncle had seen it, otherwise he would never
have encouraged her--Lawrence cared for her....

Suddenly, in the happy spontaneity of the moment she did what she very seldom did, bent forward
and kissed him.

She told me afterwards that that kiss seemed to displease him.

He got up and walked away.

VII

I do not know exactly what occurred during that afternoon. Neither Lawrence nor Nina spoke
about it to me. I only know that Nina returned subdued and restrained. I can imagine them going
out into that quiet town and walking along the deserted quay; the quiet that afternoon was,
I remember, marvellous. The whole world was holding its breath. Great events were occurring,
but we were removed from them all. The ice quivered under the sun and the snowclouds rose higher
and higher into the blue, and once and again a bell chimed and jangled.... There was an amazing
peace. Through this peaceful world Nina and Lawrence walked. His mind must, I know, have been
very far away from Nina, probably he saw nothing of her little attempts at friendship; her
gasping sentences that seemed to her so daring and significant he scarcely heard. His only
concern was to endure the walk as politely as possible and return to Vera.

Perhaps if she had not had that conversation with her uncle she would have realised more clearly
how slight a response was made to her, but she thought only that this was his English shyness
and gaucherie--she must go slowly and carefully. He was not like a Russian. She must not frighten
him. Ah, how she loved him as she walked beside him, seeing and not seeing the lovely frozen
colours of the winter day, the quickly flooding saffron sky! The first bright star, the great
pearl-grey cloud of the Neva as it was swept into the dark. In the dark she put, I am sure,
her hand on his arm, and felt his strength and took her small hurried steps beside his long
ones. He did not, I expect, feel her hand on his sleeve at all. It was Vera whom he saw through
the dusk. Vera watching the door for his return, knowing that his eyes would rush to hers,
that every beat of his heart was for her....

I found them all seated at dinner when I entered. I brought them the news of the shooting up
at the Nicholas Station.

"Perhaps, we had better not go to the theatre," I said. "A number of people were killed this
afternoon, and all the trams are stopped."

Still it was all remote from us. They laughed at the idea of not going to the theatre. The
tickets had been bought two weeks ago, and the walk would be pleasant. Of course we would go.
It would be fun, too, to see whether anything were happening.

With how strange a clarity I remember the events of that evening. It is detached and hangs
by itself among the other events of that amazing time, as though it had been framed and separated
for some especial purpose. My impression of the colour of it now is of a scene intensely quiet.

I saw at once on my arrival that Vera was not yet prepared to receive me back into her friendship.
And I saw, too, that she included Lawrence in this ostracism. She sat there, stiff and cold,
smiling and talking simply because she was compelled, for politeness sake, to do so. She would
scarcely speak to me at all, and when I saw this I turned and devoted myself to Uncle Ivan,
who was always delighted to make me a testing-ground for his English.

But poor Jerry! Had I not been so anxious lest a scene should burst upon us all I could have
laughed at the humour of it. Vera's attitude was a complete surprise to him. He had not seen
her during the preceding week, and that absence from her had heightened his desire until it
burnt his very throat with its flame. One glance from her, when he came in, would have contented
him. He could have rested then, happily, quietly; but instead of that glance she had avoided
his eye, her hand was cold and touched his only for an instant. She had not spoken to him again
after the first greeting. I am sure that he had never known a time when his feelings threatened
to be too much for him. His hold on himself and his emotions had been complete. "These fellers,"
he once said to me about some Russians, "are always letting their feelings overwhelm them--like
women. And they like it. Funny thing!" Well, funny or no, he realised it now; his true education,
like Nina's, like Vera's, like Bohun's, like Markovitch's, perhaps like my own, was only now
beginning. Funny and pathetic, too, to watch his broad, red, genial face struggling to express
a polite interest in the conversation, to show nothing but friendliness and courtesy. His eyes
were as restless as minnows; they darted for an instant towards Vera, then darted off again,
then flashed back. His hand moved for a plate, and I saw that it was shaking. Poor Jerry! He
had learnt what suffering was during those last weeks. But the most silent of us all that evening
was Markovitch. He sat huddled over his food and never said a word. If he looked up at all
he glowered, and so soon as he had finished eating he returned to his workshop, closing the
door behind him. I caught Semyonov looking at him with a pleasant, speculative smile....

At last Vera, Nina, Lawrence, and I started for the theatre. I can't say that I was expecting
a very pleasant evening, but the deathlike stillness, both of ourselves and the town did, I
confess, startle me. Scarcely a word was exchanged by us between the English Prospect and Saint
Isaac's Square. The square looked lovely in the bright moonlight, and I said something about
it. It was indeed very fine, the cathedral like a hovering purple cloud, the old sentry in
his high peaked hat, the black statue, and the blue shadows over the snow. It was then that
Lawrence, with an air of determined strength, detached Vera from us and walked ahead with her.
I saw that he was talking eagerly to her.

Nina said, with a little shudder, "Isn't it quiet, Durdles? As though there were ghosts round
every corner."

"Hope you enjoyed your walk this afternoon," I said.

"No, it was quiet then. But not like it is now. Let's walk faster and catch the others up.
Do you believe in ghosts, Durdles?"

"Yes, I think I do."

"So do I. Was it true, do you think, about the people being shot at the Nicholas Station to-day?"

"I daresay."

"Perhaps all the dead people are crowding round here now. Why isn't any one out walking?"

"I suppose they are all frightened by what they've heard, and think it better to stay at home."

We were walking down the Morskaia, and our feet gave out a ringing echo.

"Let's keep up with them," Nina said. When we had joined the others I found that they were
both silent--Lawrence very red, Vera pale. We were all feeling rather weary. A woman met us.
"You aren't allowed to cross the Nevski," she said; "the Cossacks are stopping everybody."
I can see her now, a stout, red-faced woman, a shawl over her head, and carrying a basket.
Another woman, a prostitute I should think, came up and joined us.

"What is it?" she asked us.

The stout woman repeated in a trembling, agitated voice, "You aren't allowed to cross the Nevski.
The Cossacks are stopping everybody."

The prostitute shook her head in her alarm, and little flakes of powder detached themselves
from her nose. "Bozhe moi--bozhe moi!" she said, "and I promised not to be late."

Vera then, very calmly and quietly, took command of the situation. "We'll go and see," she
said, "what is really the truth."

We turned up the side street to the Moika Canal, which lay like powdered crystal under the
moon. Not a soul was in sight.

There arrived then one of the most wonderful moments of my life. The Nevski Prospect, that
broad and mighty thoroughfare, stretched before us like a great silver river. It was utterly
triumphantly bare and naked. Under the moon it flowed, with proud tranquillity, so far as the
eye could see between its high black banks of silent houses.

At intervals of about a hundred yards the Cossack pickets, like ebony statues on their horses,
guarded the way. Down the whole silver expanse not one figure was to be seen; so beautiful
was it under the high moon, so still, so quiet, so proud, that it was revealing now for the
first time its real splendour. At no time of the night or day is the Nevski deserted. How happy
it must have been that night!...

For us, it was as though we hesitated on the banks of a river. I felt a strange superstition,
as though something said to me, "You cross that and you are plunged irrevocably into a new
order of events. Go home, and you will avoid danger." Nina must have had something of the same
feeling, because she said:

"Let's go home. They won't let us cross. I don't want to cross. Let's go home."

But Vera said firmly, "Nonsense! We've gone so far. We've got the tickets. I'm going on."

I felt the note in her voice, superstitiously, as a kind of desperate challenge, as though
she had said:

"Well, you see nothing worse can happen to me than has happened."

Lawrence said roughly, "Of course, we're going on."

The prostitute began, in a trembling voice, as though we must all of necessity understand her case:

"I don't want to be late this time, because I've been late so often before.... It always is
that way with me... always unfortunate...."

We started across, and when we stepped into the shining silver surface we all stopped for an
instant, as though held by an invisible force.

"That's it," said Vera, speaking it seemed to herself. "So it always is with us. All revolutions
in Russia end this way--"

An unmounted Cossack came forward to us.

"No hanging about there," he said. "Cross quickly. No one is to delay."

We moved to the other side of the Moika bridge. I thought of the Cossacks yesterday who had
assured the people that they would not fire--well, that impulse had passed. Protopopoff and
his men had triumphed.

We were all now in the shallows on the other bank of the canal. The prostitute, who was still
at our side, hesitated for a moment, as though she were going to speak. I think she wanted
to ask whether she might walk with us a little way. Suddenly she vanished without sound, into
the black shadows.

"Come along," said Vera. "We shall be dreadfully late." She seemed to be mastered by an overpowering
desire not to be left alone with Lawrence. She hurried forward with Nina, and Lawrence and
I came more slowly behind. We were now in a labyrinth of little streets and black overhanging
flats. Not a soul anywhere--only the moonlight in great broad flashes of light--once or twice
a woman hurried by keeping in the shadow. Sometimes, at the far end of the street, we saw the
shining, naked Nevski.

Lawrence was silent, then, just as we were turning into the square where the Michailovsky Theatre
was he began:

"What's the matter?... What's the matter with her, Durward? What have I done?"

"I don't know that you've done anything," I answered.

"But don't you see?" he went on. "She won't speak to me. She won't look at me. I won't stand
this long. I tell you I won't stand it long. I'll make her come off with me in spite of them
all. I'll have her to myself. I'll make her happy, Durward, as she's never been in all her
life. But I must have her.... I can't live close to her like this, and yet never be with her.
Never alone, never alone. Why is she behaving like this to me?"

He spoke really like a man in agony. The words coming from him in little tortured sentences
as though they were squeezed from him desperately, with pain at every breath that he drew.

"She's afraid of herself, I expect, not of you." I put my hand on his sleeve. "Lawrence," I
said, "go home. Go back to England. This is becoming too much for both of you. Nothing can
come of it, but unhappiness for everybody."

"No!" he said. "It's too late for any of your Platonic advice, Durward. I'm going to have her,
even though the earth turns upside down."

We went up the steps and into the theatre. There was, of course, scarcely any one there. The
Michailovsky is not a large theatre, but the stalls looked extraordinarily desolate, every
seat watching one with a kind of insolent wink as though, like the Nevski ten minutes before
it said, "Well, now you humans are getting frightened, you're all stopping away. We're coming
back to our own!"

There was some such malicious air about the whole theatre. Above, in the circle, the little
empty boxes were dim and shadowy, and one fancied figures moved there, and then saw that there
was no one. Someone up in the gallery laughed, and the laugh went echoing up and down the empty
spaces. A few people came in and sat nervously about, and no one spoke except in a low whisper,
because voices sounded so loud and impertinent.

Then again the man in the gallery laughed, and every one looked up frowning. The play began.
It was, I think, Les Idées de Françoise, but of that I cannot be sure. It was a farce of the
regular French type, with a bedroom off, and marionettes who continually separated into couples
and giggled together. The giggling to-night was of a sadly hollow sort. I pitied and admired
the actors, spontaneous as a rule, but now bravely stuffing any kind of sawdust into the figures
in their hands, but the leakage was terrible, and the sawdust lay scattered all about the stage.
The four of us sat as solemn as statues--I don't think one of us smiled. It was during the
second Act that I suddenly laughed. I don't know that anything very comic was happening on
the stage, but I was aware, with a kind of ironic subconsciousness, that some of the superior
spirits in their superior Heaven must be deriving a great deal of fun from our situation. There
was Vera thinking, I suppose, of nothing but Lawrence, and Lawrence thinking of nothing but
Vera, and Nina thinking of nothing but Lawrence, and the audience thinking of their safety,
and the players thinking of their salaries, and Protopopoff at home thinking of his victory,
and the Czar in Tsarskoe thinking of his Godsent autocracy, and Europe thinking of its ideals,
and Germany thinking of its militarism--all self-justified, all mistaken, and all fulfilling
some deeper plan at whose purpose they could not begin to guess. And how intermingled we all
were! Vera and Nina, M. Robert and Mdlle. Flori on the other side of the footlights, Trenchard
and Marie killed in Galicia, the Kaiser and Hindenburg, the Archbishop of Canterbury and the
postmaster of my village in Glebeshire.

The curtain is coming down, the fat husband is deceived once again, the lovers are in the bedroom
listening behind the door, the comic waiter is winking at the chamber-maid....

The lights are up and we are alone again in the deserted theatre.

Towards the end of the last interval I went out into the passage behind the stalls to escape
from the chastened whispering that went trembling up and down like the hissing of terrified
snakes. I leaned against the wall in the deserted passage and watched the melancholy figure
of the cloak-room attendant huddled up on a chair, his head between his hands.

Suddenly I saw Vera. She came up to me as though she were going to walk past me, and then she
stopped and spoke. She talked fast, not looking at me, but beyond, down the passage.

"I'm sorry, Ivan Andreievitch," she said. "I was cross the other day. I hurt you. I oughtn't
to have done that."

"You know," I said, "that I never thought of it for a minute."

"No, I was wrong. But I've been terribly worried during these last weeks. I've thought it all
out to-day and I've decided--" there was a catch in her breath and she paused; she went on--"decided
that there mustn't be any more weakness. I'm much weaker than I thought. I would be ashamed
if I didn't think that shame was a silly thing to have. But now I am quite clear; I must make
Nicholas and Nina happy. Whatever else comes I must do that. It has been terrible, these last
weeks. We've all been angry and miserable, and now I must put it right. I can if I try. I've
been forgetting that I chose my own life myself, and now I mustn't be cowardly because it's
difficult. I will make it right myself...."

She paused again, then she said, looking me straight in the face,

"Ivan Andreievitch, does Nina care for Mr. Lawrence?"

She was looking at me, with large black eyes so simply, with such trust in me, that I could
only tell her the truth.

"Yes," I said, "she does."

Her eyes fell, then she looked up at me again.

"I thought so," she said. "And does he care for her?"

"No," I said, "he does not."

"He must," she said. "It would be a very happy thing for them to marry."

She spoke very low, so that I could scarcely hear her words.

"Wait, Vera," I said. "Let it alone. Nina's very young. The mood will pass. Lawrence, perhaps,
will go back to England."

She drew in her breath and I saw her hand tremble, but she still looked at me, only now her
eyes were not so clear. Then she laughed. "I'm getting an old woman, Ivan Andreievitch. It's
ridiculous...." She broke off. Then held out her hand.

"But we'll always be friends now, won't we? I'll never be cross with you again."

I took her hand. "I'm getting old too," I said. "And I'm useless at everything. I only make
a bungle of everything I try. But I'll be your true friend to the end of my time--"

The bell rang and we went back into the theatre.

VIII

And yet, strangely enough, when I lay awake that night in my room on my deserted island, it
was of Markovitch that I was thinking. Of all the memories of the preceding evening that of
Markovitch huddled over his food, sullen and glowering, with Semyonov watching him, was predominant.

Markovitch was, so to speak, the dark horse of them all, and he was also when one came to look
at it all the way round the centre of the story. And yet it was Markovitch with his inconsistencies,
his mysteries, his impulses, and purposes, whom I understood least of them all. He makes, indeed,
a very good symbol of my present difficulties.

In that earlier experience of Marie in the forests of Galicia the matter had been comparatively
easy. I had then been concerned with the outward manifestation of war--cannon, cholera, shell,
and the green glittering trees of the forest itself. But the war had made progress since then.
It had advanced out of material things into the very souls of men. It was no longer the forest
of bark and tinder with which the chiefs of this world had to deal, but, to adapt the Russian
proverb itself, "with the dark forest of the hearts of men."

How much more baffling and intangible this new forest, and how deeply serious a business now
for those who were still thoughtlessly and selfishly juggling with human affairs.

"There is no ammunition," I remember crying desperately in Galicia. We had moved further than
the question of ammunition now.

I had a strange dream that night. I saw my old forest of two years before--the very woods of
Buchatch with the hot painted leaves, the purple slanting sunlight, the smell, the cries, the
whirr of the shell. But in my dream the only inhabitant of that forest was Markovitch. He was
pursued by some animal. What beast it was I could not see, always the actual vision was denied
to me, but I could hear it plunging through the thickets, and once I caught a glimpse of a
dark crouching body like a shadow against the light.

But Markovitch I saw all the time, sweating with heat and terror, his clothes torn, his eyes
inflamed, his breath coming in desperate pants, turning once and again as though he would stop
and offer defiance, then hasting on, his face and hands scratched and bleeding. I wanted to
offer him help and assistance, but something prevented me; I could not get to him. Finally
he vanished from my sight and I was left alone in the painted forest....

All the next morning I sat and wondered what I had better do, and at last I decided that I
would go and see Henry Bohun.

I had not seen Bohun for several weeks. I myself had been, of late, less to the flat in the
English Prospect, but I knew that he had taken my advice that he should be kind to Nicholas
Markovitch with due British seriousness, and that he had been trying to bring some kind of
relationship about. He had even asked Markovitch to dine alone with him, and Markovitch, although
he declined the invitation was, I believe, greatly touched.

So, about half-past one, I started off for Bohun's office on the Fontanka. I've said somewhere
before, I think, that Bohun's work was in connection with the noble but uphill task of enlightening
the Russian public as to the righteousness of the war, the British character, and the Anglo-Russian
alliance. I say "uphill," because only a few of the real population of Russia showed the slightest
desire to know anything whatever about any country outside their own. Their interest is in
ideas not in boundaries--and what I mean by "real" will be made patent by the events of this
very day. However, Bohun did his best, and it was not his fault that the British Government
could only spare enough men and money to cover about one inch of the whole of Russia--and,
I hasten to add, that if that same British Government had plastered the whole vast country
from Archangel to Vladivostock with pamphlets, orators, and photographs it would not have altered,
in the slightest degree, after events.

To make any effect in Russia England needed not only men and money but a hundred years' experience
of the country. That same experience was possessed by the Germans alone of all the Western
peoples--and they have not neglected to use it.

I went by tram to the Fontanka, and the streets seemed absolutely quiet. That strange shining
Nevski of the night before was a dream. Some one in the tram said something about rifle-shots
in the Summer Garden, but no one listened. As Vera had said last night we had, none of us,
much faith in Russian revolutions.

I went up in the lift to the Propaganda office and found it a very nice airy place, clean and
smart, with coloured advertisements by Shepperson and others on the walls, pictures of Hampstead
and St. Albans and Kew Gardens that looked strangely satisfactory and homely to me, and rather
touching and innocent. There were several young women clicking away at typewriters, and maps
of the Western front, and a colossal toy map of the London Tube, and a nice English library
with all the best books from Chaucer to D.H. Lawrence and from the Religio Medici to E.V. Lucas'
London.

Everything seemed clean and simple and a little deserted, as though the heart of the Russian
public had not, as yet, quite found its way there. I think "guileless" was the adjective that
came to my mind, and certainly Burrows, the head of the place--a large, red-faced, smiling
man with glasses--seemed to me altogether too cheerful and pleased with life to penetrate the
wicked recesses of Russian pessimism.

I went into Bohun's room and found him very hard at work in a serious, emphatic way which only
made me feel that he was playing at it. He had a little bookcase over his table, and I noticed
the Georgian Book of Verse, Conrad's Nostromo, and a translation of Ropshin's Pale Horse.

"Altogether too pretty and literary," I said to him; "you ought to be getting at the peasant
with a pitchfork and a hammer--not admiring the Intelligentzia."

"I daresay you're right," he said, blushing. "But whatever we do we're wrong. We have fellows
in here cursing us all day. If we're simple we're told we're not clever enough; if we're clever
we're told we're too complicated. If we're militant we're told we ought to be tender-hearted,
and if we're tender-hearted we're told we're sentimental--and at the end of it all the Russians
don't care a damn."

"Well, I daresay you're doing some good somewhere," I said indulgently.

"Come and look at my view," he said, "and see whether it isn't splendid."

He spoke no more than the truth. We looked across the Canal over the roofs of the city--domes
and towers and turrets, grey and white and blue, with the dark red walls of many of the older
houses stretched like an Arabian carpet beneath white bubbles of clouds that here and there
marked the blue sky. It was a scene of intense peace, the smoke rising from the chimneys, Isvostchicks
stumbling along on the farther banks of the Canal, and the people sauntering in their usual
lazy fashion up and down the Nevski. Immediately below our window was a skating-rink that stretched
straight across the Canal. There were some figures, like little dolls, skating up and down,
and they looked rather desolate beside the deserted band-stands and the empty seats. On the
road outside our door a cart loaded with wood slowly moved along, the high hoop over the horse's
back gleaming with red and blue.

"Yes, it is a view!" I said. "Splendid!--and all as quiet as though there'd been no disturbances
at all. Have you heard any news?"

"No," said Bohun. "To tell the truth I've been so busy that I haven't had time to ring up the
Embassy. And we've had no one in this morning. Monday morning, you know," he added; "always
very few people on Monday morning"--as though he didn't wish me to think that the office was
always deserted.

I watched the little doll-like men circling placidly round and round the rink. One bubble cloud
rose and slowly swallowed up the sun. Suddenly I heard a sharp crack like the breaking of a
twig. "What's that?" I said, stepping forward on to the balcony. "It sounded like a shot."

"I didn't hear anything," said Bohun. "You get funny echoes up here sometimes." We stepped
back into Bohun's room and, if I had had any anxieties, they would at once, I think, have been
reassured by the unemotional figure of Bohun's typist, a gay young woman with peroxide hair,
who was typing away as though for her very life.

"Look here, Bohun, can I talk to you alone for a minute?" I asked.

The peroxide lady left us.

"It's just about Markovitch I wanted to ask you," I went on. "I'm infernally worried, and I
want your help. It may seem ridiculous of me to interfere in another family like this, with
people with whom I have, after all, nothing to do. But there are two reasons why it isn't ridiculous.
One is the deep affection I have for Nina and Vera. I promised them my friendship, and now
I've got to back that promise. And the other is that you and I are really responsible for bringing
Lawrence into the family. They never would have known him if it hadn't been for us. There's
danger and trouble of every sort brewing, and Semyonov, as you know, is helping it on wherever
he can. Well, now, what I want to know is, how much have you seen of Markovitch lately, and
has he talked to you?"

Bohun considered. "I've seen very little of him," he said at last. "I think he avoids me now.
He's such a weird bird that it's impossible to tell of what he's really thinking. I know he
was pleased when I asked him to dine with me at the Bear the other night. He looked most awfully
pleased. But he wouldn't come. It was as though he suspected that I was laying a trap for him."

"But what have you noticed about him otherwise?"

"Well, I've seen very little of him. He's sulky just now. He suspected Lawrence, of course--always
after that night of Nina's party. But I think that he's reassured again. And of course it's
all so ridiculous, because there's nothing to suspect, absolutely nothing--is there?"

"Absolutely nothing," I answered firmly.

He sighed with relief. "Oh, you don't know how glad I am to hear that," he said. "Because,
although I've known that it was all right, Vera's been so odd lately that I've wondered--you
know how I care about Vera and--"

"How do you mean--odd?" I sharply interrupted.

"Well--for instance--of course I've told nobody--and you won't tell any one either--but the
other night I found her crying in the flat, sitting up near the table, sobbing her heart out.
She thought every one was out--I'd been in my room and she hadn't known. But Vera, Durward--Vera
of all people! I didn't let her see me--she doesn't know now that I heard her. But when you
care for any one as I care for Vera, it's awful to think that she can suffer like that and
one can do nothing. Oh, Durward, I wish to God I wasn't so helpless! You know before I came
out to Russia I felt so old; I thought there was nothing I couldn't do, that I was good enough
for anybody. And now I'm the most awful ass. Fancy, Durward! Those poems of mine--I thought
they were wonderful. I thought--"

He was interrupted by a sudden sharp crackle like a fire bursting into a blaze quite close
at hand. We both sprang to the windows, threw them open (they were not sealed, for some unknown
reason), and rushed out on to the balcony. The scene in front of us was just what it had been
before--the bubble clouds were still sailing lazily before the blue, the skaters were still
hovering on the ice, the cart of wood that I had noticed was vanishing slowly into the distance.
But from the Liteiny--just over the bridge--came a confused jumble of shouts, cries, and then
the sharp, unmistakable rattle of a machine-gun. It was funny to see the casual life in front
of one suddenly pause at that sound. The doll-like skaters seemed to spin for a moment and
then freeze; one figure began to run across the ice. A small boy came racing down our street
shouting. Several men ran out from doorways and stood looking up into the sky, as though they
thought the noise had come from there. The sun was just setting; the bubble clouds were pink,
and windows flashed fire. The rattle of the machine-gun suddenly stopped, and there was a moment's
silence when the only sound in the whole world was the clatter of the wood-cart turning the
corner. I could see to the right of me the crowds in the Nevski, that had looked like the continual
unwinding of a ragged skein of black silk, break their regular movement and split up like flies
falling away from an opening door.

We were all on the balcony by now--the stout Burrows, Peroxide, and another lady typist, Watson,
the thin and most admirable secretary (he held the place together by his diligence and order),
two Russian clerks, Henry, and I.

We all leaned over the railings and looked down into the street beneath us. To our left the
Fontanka Bridge was quite deserted--then, suddenly, an extraordinary procession poured across
it. At that same moment (at any rate it seems so now to me on looking back) the sun disappeared,
leaving a world of pale grey mist shot with gold and purple. The stars were, many of them,
already out, piercing with their sharp cold brilliance the winter sky.

We could not at first see of what exactly the crowd now pouring over the bridge was composed.
Then, as it turned and came down our street, it revealed itself as something so theatrical
and melodramatic as to be incredible. Incredible, I say, because the rest of the world was
not theatrical with it. That was always to be the amazing feature of the new scene into which,
without knowing it, I was at that moment stepping. In Galicia the stage had been set--ruined
villages, plague-stricken peasants, shell-holes, trenches, roads cut to pieces, huge trees
levelled to the ground, historic châteaux pillaged and robbed. But here the world was still
the good old jog-trot world that one had always known; the shops and hotels and theatres remained
as they had always been. There would remain, I believe, for ever those dull Jaeger undergarments
in the windows of the bazaar, and the bound edition of Tchekov in the book-shop just above
the Moika, and the turtle and the gold-fish in the aquarium near Elisseieff; and whilst those
things were there I could not believe in melodrama.

And we did not believe. We dug our feet into the snow, and leaned over the balcony railings
absorbed with amused interest. The procession consisted of a number of motor lorries, and on
these lorries soldiers were heaped. I can use no other word because, indeed, they seemed to
be all piled upon one another, some kneeling forward, some standing, some sitting, and all
with their rifles pointing outwards until the lorries looked like hedgehogs. Many of the rifles
had pieces of red cloth attached to them, and one lorry displayed proudly a huge red flag that
waved high in air with a sort of flaunting arrogance of its own. On either side of the lorries,
filling the street, was the strangest mob of men, women, and children. There seemed to be little
sign of order or discipline amongst them as they were all shouting different cries: "Down the
Fontanka!" "No, the Duma!" "To the Nevski!" "No, no, Tovaristchi (comrades), to the Nicholas
Station!"

Such a rabble was it that I remember that my first thought was of pitying indulgence. So this
was the grand outcome of Boris Grogoff's eloquence, and the Rat's plots for plunder!--a fitting
climax to such vain dreams. I saw the Cossack, that ebony figure of Sunday night. Ten such
men, and this rabble was dispersed for ever! I felt inclined to lean over and whisper to them,
"Quick! quick! Go home!... They'll be here in a moment and catch you!"

And yet, after all, there seemed to be some show of discipline. I noticed that, as the crowd
moved forward, men dropped out and remained picketing the doorways of the street. Women seemed
to be playing a large part in the affair, peasants with shawls over their heads, many of them
leading by the hand small children.

Burrows treated it all as a huge joke. "By Jove," he cried, speaking across to me, "Durward,
it's like that play Martin Harvey used to do--what was it?--about the French Revolution, you know."

"'The Only Way,'" said Peroxide, in a prim strangled voice.

"That's it--'The Only Way'--with their red flags and all. Don't they look ruffians, some of them?"

There was a great discussion going on under our windows. All the lorries had drawn up together,
and the screaming, chattering, and shouting was like the noise of a parrots' aviary. The cold
blue light had climbed now into the sky, which was thick with stars; the snow on the myriad
roofs stretched like a filmy cloud as far as the eye could see. The moving, shouting crowd
grew with every moment mistier.

"Oh, dear! Mr. Burrows," said the little typist, who was not Peroxide. "Do you think I shall
ever be able to get home? We're on the other side of the river, you know. Do you think the
bridges will be up? My mother will be so terribly anxious."

"Oh, you'll get home all right," answered Burrows cheerfully. "Just wait until this crowd has
gone by. I don't expect there's any fuss down by the river..."

His words were cut short by some order from one of the fellows below. Others shouted in response,
and the lorries again began to move forward.

"I believe he was shouting to us," said Bohun. "It sounded like 'Get off' or 'Get away.'"

"Not he!" said Burrows; "they're too busy with their own affairs."

Then things happened quickly. There was a sudden strange silence below; I saw a quick flame
from some fire that had apparently been lit on the Fontanka Bridge; I heard the same voice
call out once more sharply, and a second later I felt rather than heard a whizz like the swift
flight of a bee past my ear; I was conscious that a bullet had struck the brick behind me.
That bullet swung me into the Revolution....

IX

...We were all gathered together in the office. I heard one of the Russians say in an agitated
whisper, "Don't turn on the light!... Don't turn on the light! They can see!"

We were all in half-darkness, our faces mistily white. I could hear Peroxide breathing in a
tremulous manner, as though in a moment she would break into hysteria.

"We'll go into the inside room. We can turn the light on there," said Burrows. We all passed
into the reception-room of the office, a nice airy place with the library along one wall and
bright coloured maps on the other. We stood together and considered the matter.

"It's real!" said Burrows, his red, cheery face perplexed and strained. "Who'd have thought it?"

"Of course it's real!" cried Bohun impatiently (Burrows' optimism had been often difficult
to bear with indulgence).

"Now you see! What about your beautiful Russian mystic now?"

"Oh dear!" cried the little Russian typist. "And my mother!... What ever shall I do? She'll
hear reports and think that I'm being murdered. I shall never get across."

"You'd better stay with me to-night, Miss Peredonov," said Peroxide firmly. "My flat's quite
close here in Gagarinsky. We shall be delighted to have you."

"You can telephone to your mother, Miss Peredonov," said Burrows. "No difficulty at all."

It was then that Bohun took me aside.

"Look here!" he said. "I'm worried. Vera and Nina were going to the Astoria to have tea with
Semyonov this afternoon. I should think the Astoria might be rather a hot spot if this spreads.
And I wouldn't trust Semyonov. Will you come down with me there now?"

"Yes," I said, "of course I'll come."

We said a word to Burrows, put on our Shubas and goloshes, and started down the stairs. At
every door there were anxious faces. Out of one flat came a very fat Jew.

"Gentlemen, what is this all about?"

"Riots," said Bohun.

"Is there shooting?"

"Yes," said Bohun.

"Bozhe moi! Bozhe moi! And I live over on Vassily Ostrov! What do you advise, Gaspoda? Will
the bridges be up?"

"Very likely," I answered. "I should stay here."

"And they are shooting?" he asked again.

"They are," I answered.

"Gentlemen, gentlemen--stay for a moment. Perhaps together we could think.... I am all alone
here except for a lady... most unfortunate...."

But we could not stay.

The world into which we stepped was wonderful. The background of snow under the star-blazing
sky made it even more fantastic than it naturally was. We slipped into the crowd and, becoming
part of it, were at once, as one so often is, sympathetic with it. It seemed such a childish,
helpless, and good-natured throng. No one seemed to know anything of arms or directions. There
were, as I have already said, many women and little children, and some of the civilians who
had rifles looked quite helpless. I saw one boy holding his gun upside down. No one paid any
attention to us. There was as yet no class note in the demonstration, and the only hostile
cries I heard were against Protopopoff and the police. We moved back into the street behind
the Fontanka, and here I saw a wonderful sight. Some one had lighted a large bonfire in the
middle of the street and the flames tossed higher and higher into the air, bringing down the
stars in flights of gold, flinging up the snow until it seemed to radiate in lines and circles
of white light high over the very roofs of the houses. In front of the fire a soldier, mounted
on a horse, addressed a small crowd of women and boys. On the end of his rifle was a ragged
red cloth.

I could not see his face. I saw his arms wave, and the fire behind him exaggerated his figure
and then dropped it into a straggling silhouette against the snow. The street seemed deserted
except for this group, although now I could hear distant shouting on every side of me, and
the monotonous clap-clap-clap-clap of a machine-gun.

